{"id": "52965669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52965669", "title": "Adelia Cleopatra Graves", "text": "Adelia Cleopatra Graves\n\nAdelia Cleopatra Graves (pen name, Aunt Alice; March 17, 1821 - 1895) was an American educator, author, and poet. At one time serving as Professor of Latin and \"Belles-lettres\" at Mary Sharp College, she went on to occupy the position of Matron and Professor of Rhetoric in the college. In 1841, she married Prof. Zuinglius Calvin Graves (1816–1902), who was serving as president of Kingsville Academy. She was the author of several books including juvenile literature under the pseudonym of \"Aunt Alice\". She also contributed prose and verse to periodical literature. In her day, Graves was one of the most popular writers of the South. Her best-known works were: \"Life of Columbus\"; \"Poems for Children\"; \"Seclusarval, or the Arts of Romanism\"; and \"Jephtha's Daughter, a drama\".\n\nAdelia Cleopatra Spencer was born in Kingsville, Ohio, March 17, 1821. She was the daughter of Dr. Daniel M. Spencer and Marian T. Cook, and a niece of Platt Rogers Spencer, the originator of the Spencerian script. Graves' mother was an intellectual. Her family was wealthy and cultured, all the men having for generations had the benefit of collegiate education. Her father especially excelled in the Greek and Latin languages.\n\nGraves spent her early life on the shores of Lake Erie, where she resolved to devote her life to literature. She loved to be alone, passing her time on the beach, or in the old forests near where she had been born. Her love of nature was a passion, the record of which was preserved in some of her earliest unpublished poems. Stanzas written before she was nine years old were models of correct versification, exhibiting simplicity of expression and happy choice of words which characterized the productions of her more mature years. She wrote because she could not restrain the flow of thoughts, taking shape in rhymes.\n\nShe was a graduate of Kingsville Academy.\n\nIn 1841, she married Dr. Zuinglius Calvin Graves, who was at that time president of Kingsville Academy; later, president of Soule College; and founder and president of Mary Sharp College. A few years after her marriage, Graves received a bad injury, which crippled her physical energies. For five years, she could not walk across her room; and later found it difficult to walk a short distance.\n\nFor years, she taught classes in languages in the Kingsville Academy. At Mary Sharp College, there were few positions she did not occupy at some point, save that of mathematics. For 32 years, she was matron and professor of rhetoric, \"belles-lettres\", elocution, and English composition. She also taught French, ancient history, ancient geography, and English literature. \n\nThe published works of Graves include \"Seclusaval, or the Arts of Romanism\" (1870), a work written to deter Protestants from sending children to Catholic schools; and \"Jephtha's Daughter, a drama\", (1867). Besides these, there were two prize stories. Twelve or thirteen small volumes were also compiled from the \"Southern Child's Book\", at the request of the Southern Baptist Sabbath School Union, for the use of Sunday schools. For years, Graves edited and wrote for that publication. She wrote the \"Old Testament Catechism in Rhyme\" (1859), on request of the same society, for African American slaves, for which she received a line. Her unpublished poems were numerous. \n\nGraves contributed to different periodicals, mostly fugitive poems, and two prose tales, and a prize tale. \"Ruined Lives,\" published in the \"Southern Repository\", in Memphis, Tennessee, and the drama of \"Jephthah's Daughter\", were some of her other published works.\n\nGraves is mentioned in \"Woman in Sacred Song\", and \"Southland Poets\", as well as in the \"Successful Men of Tennessee\" for her extraordinary financial ability, having managed a business of per year for years at a time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7956493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7956493", "title": "American Indian College Fund", "text": "American Indian College Fund\n\nThe American Indian College Fund is a nonprofit organization that helps Native American students, providing them with support through scholarships and funding toward higher education. The Fund provides an average of 6,000 annual scholarships for American Indian students and also provides support for other needs at the tribal colleges ranging from capital support to cultural preservation activities. Charity Navigator gave the College Fund a four-star rating.\n\nThe American Indian College Fund (the College Fund) was established in 1989 as a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization to provide American Indians with student scholarships. The College Fund also helps support tribal colleges and universities (TCUs) located on or near Indian reservations through capital grants and programs such as cultural and language preservation, early childhood education programs on-campus for children of students and community members; fellowships for faculty development; and college readiness, internship, career readiness, and leadership development programs.\n\nToday American Indians account for only 1% of all college students, and 13.6% of American Indians over age 25 years old have a bachelor's degree compared to 29.3% of the overall population. Poverty is part of the reason so few American Indians and Alaska Natives go to college, with current data showing that 28.3% of the American Indian and Alaska Natives living below the poverty level compared to 15.5% of the overall population.\n\nDuring the Civil Rights Acts and Native American self-determination movements in 1960s and 1970s, tribal leaders decided there was a need for change in failed federal education policy to improve education for American Indian students to serve their communities, leading to the creation of tribal colleges and universities (TCUs).\n\nIn 1968, the Navajo Nation created the first-of-its-kind educational institution—a college controlled by the tribe, located on the Navajo reservation, to provide a quality higher education to the surrounding community, known as a tribal college and university. TCU presidents established the College Fund in 1989 in New York City to raise private-sector funds for scholarships for American Indian students and to raise money for financial support for the tribal colleges, while broadening awareness of those institutions and the College Fund itself.\n\nIn 2015-16, the College Fund distributed more than $8.1 million in direct support to students, including scholarships, internships, leadership training, career readiness, and other programmatic support. Scholarship recipients are selected on the basis of academic success, financial need, community involvement, and commitment to their tribal communities. To date the College Fund has provided more than 100,000 scholarships since its inception and an average of 6,000 scholarships per year to American Indian students. The College Fund also helps support accredited tribal colleges with research and leadership grants, cultural preservation programs, early childhood education programs, and faculty development fellowships as well as with institutional funding.\n\nThe American Indian College Fund has received top ratings from independent charity evaluators. It earned the Best in America Seal of Excellence from America's Best Charities. Of the one million charities operating in the United States, fewer than 2,000 organizations have been awarded this seal. The College Fund meets the Standards for Charity Accountability of the Better Business Bureau's Wise Giving Alliance. The College Fund received a B+ rating from Charity Watch. The College Fund received a gold rating from GuideStar in 2017, and a four-star rating from Charity Navigator for FY2016.\n\nOriginally headquartered in New York City, the College Fund relocated to Denver, Colorado in 2002.\n\nTribal colleges and universities (TCUs) are vital to Native Americans and are beneficial to the country as a whole. They help Native communities and students gain a valuable education and also preserve Native language, culture and traditions through language curriculum and American Indian studies.\n\nSince the first tribal college was established in 1968, the number of tribal colleges and universities has grown to 37 in the United States in 2016.\n\nAccording to the American Indian Higher Education Consortium, TCUs are chartered by their respective tribal governments, including the ten tribes within the largest reservations in the United States. They operate more than 75 campuses in 16 states—virtually covering Indian Country—and serve students from well more than 230 federally recognized Indian tribes. TCUs vary in enrollment (size), focus (liberal arts, sciences, workforce development/training), location (woodlands, desert, frozen tundra, rural reservation, urban), and student population (predominantly American Indian). Despite their diversity, tribal identity is the core of every TCU, and they all share the mission of tribal self-determination and service to their respective communities.\n\nTCUs engage in partnerships with organizations including U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the National Science Foundation, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and universities nationwide to support research and education programs that focus on issues such as climate change, sustainable agriculture, water quality, wildlife population dynamics, and diabetes prevention. Many support distance learning involving state-of-the-art learning environments.\n\nTCU faculty is engaged in research in many areas including hydrology, molecular cell biology, archaeology, entomology, community health, environmental science, aerospace engineering, and advanced manufacturing processes. The majority of faculty, teaching staff, and administrators hold a master's or doctoral degree. Many faculty and staff members often serve double-duty as counselors and mentors in addition to their teaching and administrative roles.\n\nTCUs provide services to help students stay in school and complete their studies, such as personal and career counseling, mentoring, tutoring, wellness programs, child care, computer lending programs, and transportation and housing assistance. They also provide services to the wider community they serve and offer health centers, lending libraries, computer centers, and lifelong learning programs.\n\nTCUs at a glance\n\nThe American Indian College Fund has continued its partnership with Portland, Oregon-based advertising agency partner, Wieden+Kennedy for more than 20 years to educate the public through a series of public service announcements to show the difference a higher education makes in American Indian communities. In 2015 they launched a campaign called 1%, to bring attention to the fact that only 1% of college students in the United States are American Indians. The campaign consists of print and video public service announcements. Wieden+Kennedy is known for its award-winning work for clients such as Nike and Coca-Cola.\n\nThe College Fund's public service announcements have appeared in \"The New York Times Magazine, Harper's, U.S. News and World Report, Fortune, Sports Illustrated, Comcast, MSNBC, Discovery Networks\", and National Geographic channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29753131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29753131", "title": "An Imaginative Approach to Teaching", "text": "An Imaginative Approach to Teaching\n\nAn Imaginative Approach to Teaching is a 2005 non-fiction book by Kieran Egan that explains his ideas about how students’ imaginations work in learning. It focuses on the applications of this philosophy in the everyday classroom setting utilizing a set of prescribed cognitive tools. This book is an elaboration of some of Egan’s ideas about how the acquisition of cognitive tools can work effectively in education. He expounded these ideas in his 1997 book The Educated Mind.\n\nThis book contains three main chapters. Each of these chapters focuses on a particular stage of cognitive development and the set of cognitive tools that people use at these stages. The stages are linked to the development of oral language, literacy and theoretical thinking.\n\nThe first chapter describes the cognitive tools linked with oral language use. These include story form, metaphor, binary opposites, rhyme, rhythm and pattern, humor, mental imagery among others. These tools first become present in preliterate people, which generally happen to be children before the age of seven.\n\nThe second chapter describes the cognitive tools that are added with the onset of literacy. These include a sense of reality, interest in extremes of experience, association with heroes, connecting knowledge with human meaning, narrative understanding among others. Egan states that these tools do not replace the previous toolkit, but are additions.\n\nThe third chapter describes the cognitive tools that are added when students are nurtured toward theoretical thinking. The two previous toolkits are prerequisites to developing this toolkit. Some of the tools indicated here are a sense of abstract reality, a sense of agency, a grasp of general ideas and their anomalies, a search for authority and truth, and meta-narrative understanding.\n\nAfter each of these three chapters, a section referred to as a “half chapter” is included. These half chapters include suggested planning frameworks for the preceding cognitive toolkit and a series of example lessons or units.\n\nAn Imaginative Approach to Teaching received positive reviews in the Teachers College Record and the Eurasia Journal of Mathematics, Science & Technology Education. The Teachers College Record stated that “[t]his book is filled with creative and practical advice that encourages teachers to use stories engage students' imaginations.” The Eurasia Journal of Mathematics, Science & Technology Education stated that “An Imaginative Approach to Teaching can be useful for teachers, teacher educators, staff development professionals in a great exten[t].”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165101", "title": "Barbershop Harmony Society", "text": "Barbershop Harmony Society\n\nThe Barbershop Harmony Society, legally and historically named the Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of Barber Shop Quartet Singing in America, Inc. (SPEBSQSA), is the first of several organizations to promote and preserve barbershop music as an art form. Founded by Owen C. Cash and Rupert I. Hall in Tulsa, Oklahoma in 1938, the organization quickly grew, promoting barbershop harmony among men of all ages. As of 2014, just under 23,000 men in the United States and Canada were members of this organization whose focus is on \"a cappella\" music. The international headquarters was in Kenosha, Wisconsin for fifty years before moving to Nashville, Tennessee in 2007. In June 2018, the society announced it would allow women to join as full members.\n\nA parallel women's singing organization, Sweet Adelines International (SAI) was founded in 1945. A second women's barbershop harmony organization, Harmony, Inc., broke from SAI in 1959 over an issue of racial exclusion, with SAI (like SPEBSQSA and many other organizations) being white-only at that time; SPEBSQSA officially lifted the requirement in 1963. Several international affiliate organizations, in countries around the world, add their own flavor to the signature sound of barbershop harmony.\n\nThe original name SPEBSQSA was intended as a lampoon on Roosevelt's New Deal alphabet agencies. Because of the name's length and the difficult-to-pronounce acronym, society staff and members often refer to SPEBSQSA as \"The Society\". For decades, SPEBSQSA was \"the\" official name, while the \"Barbershop Harmony Society\" was an officially recognized and sanctioned alternate. Members were encouraged to use the alternate name, because it was felt that the official name was an in-joke that did not resonate outside the Society. In mid-2004, faced with declining membership, the Society adopted a marketing plan that called for using \"Barbershop Harmony Society\" consistently and retaining the old name for certain legal purposes.\n\nThe old official name spelled \"barber shop\" as two words, while \"barbershop\" is generally used elsewhere.\n\nIn reference to the acronym SPEBSQSA, The Society has said \"attempts to pronounce the name are discouraged\". Unofficially, it is sometimes pronounced as if it were spelled \"Spebsqua\".\n\nIn late 2004, the Society established Barbershop Harmony Society as its new \"brand name\", with a logo and identity program released in 2005. Although the legal name remained SPEBSQSA, Inc., the decision was controversial, as many members felt that the new name did not reflect a mission of preservation and encouragement of the style. Many members were concerned that the term \"quartet\" had been dropped, fearing a movement in the direction of choral singing and downplaying quartet singing.\n\nA key aspect of the Society's mission is in the preservation of barbershop music. To this end, it maintains the Old Songs Library. Holding over 100,000 titles (750,000 sheets) this is the largest sheet music collection in the world excepting only the Library of Congress.\n\nThe \"Barberpole Cat Program\" is a collection of 12 songs (commonly known as \"polecats\") that are considered standard repertoire for every barbershopper (\"Let Me Call You Sweetheart\", \"My Wild Irish Rose\", etc.) Every member receives a booklet upon joining the society. The purpose of this collection is so that whenever any barbershoppers meet they will always have something ready to sing. The society has also published collections such as \"Strictly Barbershop\".\n\nHarmony Foundation International, a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization, was incorporated in 1959 as a charitable subsidiary of the Barbershop Harmony Society; it raises financial support for the society's programs.\n\nIn 2003, in preparation for a new headquarters location, the Society sold both Harmony Hall, a historic lakefront mansion in Kenosha, Wisconsin, and its nearby facility (known as Harmony Hall West) located in a strip mall which the Society purchased in 1976 and renovated. HHW had housed finance, merchandising, IT and membership. Operations and staff from both buildings were consolidated into a remodeled HHW.\n\nIn 2006 the Society announced plans to move its headquarters to Nashville, Tennessee. In August 2007, the Society completed the relocation to 110 Seventh Avenue North, in Nashville.\n\nIn June 2018, the society announced it would allow women to join as full members, with each chapter deciding whether to remain all-male or add a mixed or all-women's chorus. Since 2009, women had been allowed to join as associates.\n\nTo promote and improve barbershop singing, the society annually runs international and district-level contests for choruses and quartets.\n\nWhen a quartet wins the international gold medal, they are considered champions forever and may not compete again. A chorus that wins the gold, however, must sit out of competition for only two years and thus may compete for the gold medal again in the third year following their win.\n\n\nFor purposes of administration, particularly of local education and contests, the society is organized into 17 geographical districts as follows. (Chapter quantities are as of November 2017.)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31526999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31526999", "title": "Benjamin Anastas", "text": "Benjamin Anastas\n\nBenjamin Anastas (born 1969) is an American novelist, memoirist, journalist and book reviewer born in Gloucester, Massachusetts. He teaches literature at Bennington College and is part of the core faculty of the Bennington Writing Seminars.\n\nAnastas started publishing his short fiction while a graduate student at the Iowa Writer's Workshop. His first novel, \"An Underachiever's Diary\", is a comic send-up of the meritocracy narrated by the underachieving half of a set of identical twins. On the jacket of Anastas's second book, \"The Faithful Narrative of a Pastor's Disappearance: A Novel\", Daniel Handler called it \"hands down, the best novel of the year\". It concerns the life of a Congregational church in suburban Boston and was a \"The New York Times\" Notable Book.\n\nAnastas's fiction, criticism, essays and journalism have appeared in \"Story\", \"GQ\", \"The Paris Review\", \"The New Republic\" online, \"The New York Observer\", \"The New York Times Book Review\", \"The Washington Post\", and \"Bookforum\". In 2005, \"The Yale Review\" published his novella \"Versace Enthroned with Saints: Margaret, Jerome, Alex and the Angel Donatella\" and later awarded it the Smart Family Foundation Prize for Fiction.\n\nMore recently, Anastas has published articles on the Mayan Calendar 2012 hoax in \"The New York Times Magazine\", the prosperity gospel in \"Harper's Magazine\" and a short piece about his father's nude portrait on \"Granta\"'s website. His essay \"The Foul Reign of Emerson's 'Self Reliance, also from \"The New York Times Magazine\", was selected for \"The Best American Essays 2012\", guest edited by David Brooks.\n\nHis memoir, \"Too Good To Be True\", was published in 2012. The title is taken from a sign that the author was made to wear around his neck by a childhood therapist. It tells the story of his stalled career as a writer, the end of his marriage, and his attempts to rebuild his life again. Anastas published the book with Amazon's fledgling publishing imprint in New York City and numerous bookstores have refused to stock it. Giles Harvey, writing in The New Yorker, groups \"Too Good to Be True\" in a category he calls the \"failure memoir\" and cites F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Crack-Up essays as an influence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3802153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3802153", "title": "Certified Ethical Hacker", "text": "Certified Ethical Hacker\n\nCertified Ethical Hacker (C|EH) is a qualification obtained by demonstrating knowledge of assessing the security of computer systems by looking for weaknesses and vulnerabilities in target systems, using the same knowledge and tools as a malicious hacker, but in a lawful and legitimate manner to assess the security posture of a target system. This knowledge is assessed by answering multiple choice questions regarding various ethical hacking techniques and tools. The code for the C|EH exam is 312-50. This certification has now been made a baseline with a progression to the C|EH (Practical), launched in March 2018, a test of penetration testing skills in a lab environment where the candidate must demonstrate the ability to apply techniques and use penetration testing tools to compromise various simulated system within a virtual environment.\n\nEthical hackers are employed by organizations to penetrate networks and computer systems with the purpose of finding and fixing security vulnerabilities. The EC-Council offers another certification, known as Certified Network Defense Architect (CNDA). This certification is designed for United States Government agencies and is available only to members of selected agencies including some private government contractors, primarily in compliance to DOD Directive 8570.01-M. It is also ANSI accredited and is recognized as a GCHQ Certified Training (GCT).\n\nThe C|EH is a part of EC-Council’s VAPT Certification Track, which progresses to the C|EH (Practical), the EC-Council Certified Security Analyst (ECSA), ECSA (Practical), and finally, the most advanced penetration test, the Licensed Penetration Tester (Master).\n\nCertification is achieved by taking the C|EH examination after having either attended training at an Accredited Training Center (ATC), or completed through EC-Council’s learning portal, iClass. If a candidate opts to self-study, an application must be filled out and proof submitted of two years of relevant information security work experience. Those without the required two years of information security related work experience can request consideration of educational background. The current version of the C|EH is V10 which uses the EC-Council's exam code 312-50, as the earlier versions did. Although the new version V10 has recently been launched, this exam has 125 multiple-choice questions, with a 4-hour time limit,\n\nThe EC-Council and various ATCs (Accredited Training Center) administer the C|EH examination.\n\nMembers holding the C|EH/CNDA designation (as well as other EC-Council certifications) must seek re-certification under this program every three years, for a minimum of 120 credits.\n\nThe C|EH focuses on the latest malware attacks, the latest hacking tools, and the new emerging attack vectors in the cyberspace.  It includes hacking challenges at the end of every module and is built 100% in compliance to the NICE 2.0 Framework to ensure a systematic job role mapping.\n\nC|EH is also accredited by the American National Standard Institute, has received the GCT (GCHQ Certified Training) accreditation, and is a recognized certification for the DoD’s computer network defense Service Providers (CND-SP’s), a specialized personnel classification within the United States Department of Defense’s information assurance workforce among many other recognitions.\n\nMany intelligence agencies including the Pentagon, FBI, the US Army, and most Fortune 500 companies prefer the C|EH program to enhance the knowledge and skills of their security personnel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22048885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22048885", "title": "Charles Willink", "text": "Charles Willink\n\nSir Charles William Willink, 2nd Baronet (10 September 1929 – 10 March 2009) was an English classical scholar, teacher and baronet. He succeeded his father Sir Henry Willink to the Willink Baronetcy on his death in 1973, and was himself succeeded on his death by his son Sir Edward Daniel Willink.\n\nSir Henry's eldest son, Charles won a King's Scholarship to Eton College (where he was a friend and contemporary of Douglas Hurd, and won the Newcastle Scholarship a year before him) before reading an MA and PhD in Classics at Trinity College, Cambridge. He married the artist Elizabeth Andrewes in 1954 and they had two children, Edward and Penelope.\n\nHe then entered teaching, first at Marlborough College and then (from 1954 to 1984) at Eton, where he rose to housemaster. He was a specialist in ancient Greek metre and tragedy. His publications include an Oxford University Press edition of \"Orestes\" by Euripides with commentary, and numerous journal articles and reviews. From 1982 he also cooperated with his Cambridge tutor John Morrison, the banker Frank Welsh and the naval architect John Coates to produce a full-size replica of a Greek trireme, founding the Trireme Trust with them and culminating in the launch of the \"Olympias\" in 1987. After his retirement he became an expert amateur botanist, specialising in flowers on Hampstead Heath and chairing Highgate cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "26804417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26804417", "title": "Cora Wilson Stewart", "text": "Cora Wilson Stewart\n\nCora Wilson Stewart (January 17, 1875 – December 2, 1958) was an American progressive era social reformer and educator who is well known for her work to eliminate adult illiteracy. In 1911, Stewart was the first woman to be elected to the position of the president of the Kentucky Education Association. Stewart opened Moonlight School, first in Rowan County, Kentucky and then across the United States, to educate illiterate adults at night in the schools where children studied during the day.\n\nCora Wilson, the daughter of a physician and a schoolteacher, was born January 17, 1875. Her parents Dr. Jeremiah and Annie Eliza (Hally) Wilson were residents of Rowan County, Kentucky where she attended .\n\nCora Wilson married Ulysses Grant Carey in 1895, and the couple divorced in 1898 with no children. In 1902, she married Alexander Thomas Stewart, son of William G. and Elizabeth (Patton) Stewart. The couple divorced in 1904 but remarried three months later. In 1907, they had their only child, William Holley Stewart who died in 1908. Cora and Alexander divorced on June 8, 1910.\n\nIn 1911, Stewart opened Moonlight School in Rowan County, Kentucky to educate illiterate adults at night in the schools where children studied during the day.\n"}
{"id": "5149505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149505", "title": "Critical consciousness", "text": "Critical consciousness\n\nCritical consciousness, conscientization, or in Portuguese, is a popular education and social concept developed by Brazilian pedagogue and educational theorist Paulo Freire, grounded in post-Marxist critical theory. Critical consciousness focuses on achieving an in-depth understanding of the world, allowing for the perception and exposure of social and political contradictions. Critical consciousness also includes taking action against the oppressive elements in one's life that are illuminated by that understanding.\n\nThe English term \"conscientization\" is a translation of the Portuguese term , which is also translated as \"consciousness raising\" and \"critical consciousness\". The term was popularized by Brazilian educator, activist, and theorist Paulo Freire in his 1970 work \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\". Freire was teaching the poor and illiterate members of Brazilian society to read at a time when literacy was a requirement for suffrage and dictators ruled many South American countries. The term originally derives from Frantz Fanon's coinage of a French term, , in his 1952 book, \"Black Skins, White Masks\".\n\nPaulo Freire defines critical consciousness as the ability to \"intervene in reality in order to change it.\" Critical consciousness proceeds through the identification of \"generative themes\", which Freire identifies as \"iconic representations that have a powerful emotional impact in the daily lives of learners.\" In this way, individual consciousness helps end the \"culture of silence\" in which the socially dispossessed internalize the negative images of themselves created and propagated by the oppressor in situations of extreme poverty. Liberating learners from this mimicry of the powerful, and the fratricidal violence that results therefrom is a major goal of critical consciousness. Critical consciousness is a fundamental aspect of Freire's concept of popular education.\n\nArlene Goldbard, an author on the subject of community cultural development finds the concept of conscientization to be a foundation of community cultural development. From the glossary of Goldbard's 2006 book \"New Creative Community.\": \"Conscientization is an ongoing process by which a learner moves toward critical consciousness. This process is the heart of liberatory education. It differs from \"consciousness raising\" in that the latter may involve transmission of preselected knowledge. Conscientization means engaging in praxis, in which one both reflects and takes action on their social reality to break through prevailing mythologies and reach new levels of awareness—in particular, awareness of oppression, being an \"object\" of others’ will rather than a self-determining \"subject.\" The process of conscientization involves identifying contradictions in experience through dialogue and becoming part of the process of changing the world.\" \n\nThe ancient Greeks first identified the essence of critical consciousness when philosophers encouraged their students to develop an \"impulse and willingness to stand back from humanity and nature... [and] to make them objects of thought and criticism, and to search for their meaning and significance. In his books \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" and \"Education for Critical Consciousness\", Freire explains critical consciousness as a sociopolitical educative tool that engages learners in questioning the nature of their historical and social situation, which Freire addressed as \"reading the world\". The goal of critical consciousness, according to Freire, should be acting as subjects in the creation of democratic society. In education, Freire implies intergenerational equity between students and teachers in which both learn, both question, both reflect and both participate in meaning-making. Using this idea, and describing current instructional methods as homogenization and lockstep standardization, alternative approaches are proposed, such as the Sudbury model of democratic education schools, an alternative approach in which children, by enjoying personal freedom thus encouraged to exercise personal responsibility for their actions, learn at their own pace rather than following a previously imposed chronologically-based curriculum. In a similar form students learn all the subjects, techniques and skills in these schools. The staff are minor actors, the \"teacher\" is an adviser and helps just when asked. Sudbury model of democratic education schools maintain that values, social justice, critical consciousness, intergenerational equity, and political consciousness included, must be learned through experience, as Aristotle said: \"For the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing them.\"\n\nPicking up on Freire's definition of critical consciousness, Joe L. Kincheloe has expanded the definition of the concept in his work on postformalism. In Kincheloe's formulation postformalism connects cognition to critical theoretical questions of power and social justice. In this context Kincheloe constructs a critical theory of cognition that explores questions of meaning, emancipation vis-a-vis ideological inscription, and a particular focus on the socio-political construction of the self. With these concerns in mind Kincheloe's postformal critical consciousness engages questions of purpose, issues of human dignity, freedom, authority, reconceptualized notions of reason, intellectual quality, and social responsibility. Postformal critical consciousness stimulates a conversation between critical pedagogy and a wide range of social, cultural, political economic, psychological, and philosophical concerns. Kincheloe employs this \"multilogical conversation\" to shape new modes of self-awareness, more effective forms of social, political, and pedagogical action, and an elastic model of an evolving critical consciousness (Kincheloe and Steinberg, 1993; Kincheloe, 1999; Thomas and Kincheloe, 2006).\n\nFreire's development of critical consciousness has been expanded upon in several academic disciplines and common applications. Public health community collaborations focused on HIV prevention for women, the role of critical consciousness in adult education, and the effect of peer pressure on cigarette smokers Freire's notion of critical consciousness is, in part, a type of political consciousness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21881298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21881298", "title": "Dennis Covington", "text": "Dennis Covington\n\nDennis Covington (born October 30, 1948) is an American author whose work includes two novels and three nonfiction books. His subject matter includes spirituality, the environment, and the South. Covington's book \"Salvation on Sand Mountain\" was a 1995 National Book Award finalist and his articles have been published in \"The New York Times\", \"Vogue\" and Redbook.\n\nCovington was born in Birmingham, Alabama, studied fiction writing and earned a BA degree from the University of Virginia, then served in the U.S. Army. He earned an MFA in the early 1970s from the Iowa Writers' Workshop, studying under Raymond Carver. He taught English at the College of Wooster. He married his second wife, writer Vicki Covington, in 1977. The couple returned to Birmingham the following year, and he began teaching at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. The couple divorced in 2005. They have two daughters and three grandchildren.\n\nIn 1983, Dennis Covington went to El Salvador as a freelance journalist. In 2003, he became Professor of Creative Writing at Texas Tech University. In 2005, he was a judge for the National Book Awards. Covington spoke at a talk hosted by the University of Central Florida's literary magazine \"The Cypress Dome\" in 2009.\n\nIn November 2017, Covington started his column called “Deep in the Heart,” published online by conservative magazine The American Spectator. He wrote a total of 20 mini-essays on life in Texas, family, lost love, health issues, and his childhood in Alabama. Covington’s essays were well-received.\n\n\n'Religion Kills,' Hitchens titles a chapter with typical bravado, as though science doesn't. The history of scientific inquiry is filled with examples of incompetence, chicanery and outright torture and homicide undertaken in the name of \"reason\" and \"progress.\" Yet Hitchens continues to imply that evil is the prefecture of religion rather than a resident of both secular and spiritual worlds.\n\n\n\"Salvation On Sand Mountain\" details “war stories” of people who lived to tell of their poisonous snake bites, and of those who did not survive. Covington describes what led him to abandon snake handling during a wedding in Kingston, Georgia, where the writer discovered there’s a fine line in the world of snake-handling between faith and suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "41014086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41014086", "title": "Design Center Colorado", "text": "Design Center Colorado\n\nDesign Center Colorado is situated within the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Colorado Boulder. Design Center (DC) Colorado is dedicated to fostering partnerships between students, industry, government agencies and other organizations. This is done by immersing teams of graduate and undergraduate students in externally sponsored design projects throughout the academic year.\n\nSince 2000, the Design Center, part of the I/UCPC, or the Industry/University Cooperative Projects Center, has had over 1600 student participants that have worked on 225 projects from 56 different organizations. Design Center projects require that at least 1500 student hours are put in per project.\n\nThe CU-Boulder ME undergraduate degree includes a variety of design classes, starting with a freshman Computer Aided Design (CAD) course and culminating with a year-long Senior Design experience. Senior Design is the culminating design experience in the Mechanical Engineering (ME) Department at CU-Boulder. The purpose of this course is to simulate an entry-level engineering project in industry—allowing students to apply the engineering knowledge they acquired in the fundamental ME courses to a real-world, open-ended design challenge. Graduates of CU's ME department are expected to have a firm grasp of the design process and first hand experience executing the design loop in both theoretical and real life settings.\n\nThe Graduate Design Program is focused on educating graduate (both Masters and Doctoral) students through hands-on design learning and industry-sponsored projects. The cornerstone of this program is a three-semester sequence of courses that begin in January, and culminate the following year in May. The first course in this sequence is Advanced Product Design (APD). Advanced Product Design, focuses on the design and development of consumer products such as bicycles, climbing gear, power tools, etc. Through review of existing products, high level frameworks and hands-on design assignments, the course is designed to give an overview of the processes and methods students need to design products. Following the APD studio class a two-semester Graduate Design project follows.\n\nGraduate Design consists of teams of 3-4 students working on a design project: the end result of this project is a piece of fully tested functional hardware with accompanying documentation. In many cases the project hardware will be representative of the final manufactured product. While the course focuses on team design projects, formal class time discussions center on design heuristics, project management, design trends, failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA), entrepreneurship, and oral presentation skills. Projects come from various sources such as industry, non-profit organizations, student concepts for an entrepreneurship product, technology transfer, corporate grants, etc.\n\nThe Design Center (DC) Colorado fosters technical collaborations with business, industry, and non-profit organizations. Projects have incorporated many different subject areas including bio-medical, computers & peripherals, aerospace, automotive, energy, sports and recreation, government research, and packing and measurement. Student teams work on assigned projects for two consecutive semesters and deliver tested, functional hardware and documentation to the industry sponsor at the completion of the project. Past sponsors have included: Agilent, Boeing, ConMed, Covidien, Hewlett-Packard, TerumoBCT, Medtronic, MillerCoors, Ricoh, Sandia National Labs, Shell, Oracle, and Los Alamos National Lab.\n\nThe DC Colorado program is primarily housed in the Mechanical Engineering department, in the Engineering Building, on the University of Colorado Boulder campus. The Fleming Building will be renovated into the Idea Forge, the new home of Design Center Colorado on the university's campus.\n\nThe Durning Laboratory, which will also move to the Idea Forge, is the dedicated design space for undergraduate mechanical engineering students. With more than 6,000 sq ft, the laboratory is home to student project work areas, material testing instrumentation, composites fabrication space, the ME student machine shop, and an ME student computer lab. Durning Laboratory also provides essential tools for checkout to ME students, including: hand tools, measurement devices, fasteners, adhesives, reference materials, electronic components, and a high-speed camera.\n\nFALL is a dedicated Graduate Design Program space in the Fleming Law building. These facilities are used exclusively by the students in the Graduate Design Program. This space includes a dedicated computer laboratory, conference room, active learning classroom, mechanical fabrication room, electrical fabrication room, multi-use lounge area, and individual team studios for Grad Design.\n"}
{"id": "429541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429541", "title": "Early childhood education", "text": "Early childhood education\n\nEarly childhood education (ECE; also nursery education) is a branch of education theory which relates to the teaching of little children (formally and informally) from birth up to the age of eight which is traditionally about 3rd grade. It emerged as a field of study during the Enlightenment, particularly in European countries with high literacy rates. It continued to grow through the nineteenth century as universal primary education became a norm in the Western world. In recent years, early childhood education has become a prevalent public policy issue, as municipal, state, and federal lawmakers consider funding for preschool and pre-K. It is described as an important period in a child's development. It refers to the development of a child's personality. ECE is also a professional designation earned through a post secondary education program. For example, in Ontario, Canada, the designations ECE (Early Childhood Educator) and RECE (Registered Early Childhood Educator) may only be used by registered members of the College of Early Childhood Educators, which is made up of accredited child care professionals who are held accountable to the College's standards of practice.\n\nThe history of early childhood care and education (ECCE) refers to the development of care and education of children from birth through eight years old throughout history. ECCE has a global scope, and caring for and educating young children has always been an integral part of human societies. Arrangements for fulfilling these societal roles have evolved over time and remain varied across cultures, often reflecting family and community structures as well as the social and economic roles of women and men. Historically, such arrangements have largely been informal, involving family, household and community members. The formalization of these arrangements emerged in the nineteenth century with the establishment of kindergartens for educational purposes and day nurseries for care in much of Europe and North America, Brazil, China, India, Jamaica and Mexico.\n\nWhile the first two years of a child's life are spent in the creation of a child's first \"sense of self\", most children are able to differentiate between themselves and others by their second year. This differentiation is crucial to the child's ability to determine how they should function in relation to other people. Parents can be seen as a child's first teacher and therefore an integral part of the early learning process.\n\nEarly childhood attachment processes that occurs during early childhood years 0–2 years of age, can be influential to future education. With proper guidance and exploration children begin to become more comfortable with their environment, if they have that steady relationship to guide them. Parents who are consistent with response times, and emotions will properly make this attachment early on. If this attachment is not made, there can be detrimental effects on the child in their future relationships and independence. There are proper techniques that parents and caregivers can use to establish these relationships, which will in turn allow children to be more comfortable exploring their environment. Academic Journal Reference This provides experimental research on the emphasis on caregiving effecting attachment.\nEducation for young students can help them excel academically and socially. With exposure and organized lesson plans children can learn anything they want to. The tools they learn to use during these beginning years will provide lifelong benefits to their success. Developmentally, having structure and freedom, children are able to reach their full potential.\n\nTeachers seeking to be early childhood educators must obtain certification among other requirements. \"An early childhood education certification denotes that a teacher has met a set of standards that shows they understand the best ways to educate young students aged 3 to 8.\" Early childhood educators must have knowledge in the developmental changes during early childhood and the subjects being taught in an early childhood classroom. These subjects include language arts and reading, mathematics, and some social studies and science. Early childhood educators must also be able to manage classroom behavior. Positive reinforcement is one popular method for managing behavior in young children. Teacher certification laws vary by state in the United States. In Connecticut, for example, these requirements include a bachelor's degree, 36 hours of special education courses, passing scores on the Praxis II Examination and Connecticut Foundations of Reading Test and a criminal history background check.\n\nEarly childhood education often focuses on learning through play, based on the research and philosophy of Jean Piaget, which posits that play meets the physical, intellectual, language, emotional and social needs (PILES) of children. Children's curiosity and imagination naturally evoke learning when unfettered. Learning through play will allow a child to develop cognitively. This is the earliest form of collaboration among children. In this, children learn through their interactions with others. Thus, children learn more efficiently and gain more knowledge through activities such as dramatic play, art, and social games.\n\nTassoni suggests that \"some play opportunities will develop specific individual areas of development, but many will develop several areas.\" Thus, It is important that practitioners promote children’s development through play by using various types of play on a daily basis. Allowing children to help get snacks ready helps develop math skills (one-to-one ratio, patterns, etc.), leadership, and communication. Key guidelines for creating a play-based learning environment include providing a safe space, correct supervision, and culturally aware, trained teachers who are knowledgeable about the Early Years Foundation.\n\nDavy states that the British Children's Act of 1989 links to play-work as the act works with play workers and sets the standards for the setting such as security, quality and staff ratios. Learning through play has been seen regularly in practice as the most versatile way a child can learn. Margaret McMillan (1860-1931) suggested that children should be given free school meals, fruit and milk, and plenty of exercise to keep them physically and emotionally healthy. Rudolf Steiner (1861-1925) believed that play time allows children to talk, socially interact, use their imagination and intellectual skills. Maria Montessori (1870-1952) believed that children learn through movement and their senses and after doing an activity using their senses. The benefits of being active for young children include physical benefits (healthy weight, bone strength, cardiovascular fitness), stress relief, improved social skills and improved sleep. When young students have group play time it also helps them to be more empathetic towards each other.\n\nIn a more contemporary approach, organizations such as the National Association of the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) promote child-guided learning experiences, individualized learning, and developmentally appropriate learning as tenets of early childhood education. A study by the Ohio State University also analyzed the effects of implementing board games in elementary classrooms. This study found that implementing board games in the classroom \"helped students develop social skills that transferred to other areas.\" Specific outcomes included students being more helpful, cooperative and thoughtful with other students. Negative outcomes included children feeling excluded and showing frustration with game rules.\n\nPiaget provides an explanation for why learning through play is such a crucial aspect of learning as a child. However, due to the advancement of technology, the art of play has started to dissolve and has transformed into \"playing\" through technology. Greenfield, quoted by the author, Stuart Wolpert, in the article, \"\"Is Technology Producing a Decline in Critical Thinking and Analysis?\",\" states, \"No media is good for everything. If we want to develop a variety of skills, we need a balanced media diet. Each medium has costs and benefits in terms of what skills each develops.\" Technology is beginning to invade the art of play and a balance needs to be found.\n\nMany oppose the theory of learning through play because they think children are not gaining new knowledge. In reality, play is the first way children learn to make sense of the world at a young age. As children watch adults interact around them, they pick up on their slight nuances, from facial expressions to their tone of voice. They are exploring different roles, learning how things work, and learning to communicate and work with others. These things cannot be taught by a standard curriculum, but have to be developed through the method of play. Many preschools understand the importance of play and have designed their curriculum around that to allow children to have more freedom. Once these basics are learned at a young age, it sets children up for success throughout their schooling and their life. Many Early Childhood programs provide real life props and activities to enrich the children's play, enabling them to learn various skills through play.\n\nMany say that those who succeed in kindergarten know when and how to control their impulses. They can follow through when a task is difficult and listen to directions for a few minutes. These skills are linked to self-control, which is within the social and emotional development that is learned over time through play amongst other things.\n\nThe Developmental Interaction Approach is based on the theories of Jean Piaget, Erik Erikson, John Dewey and Lucy Sprague Mitchell. The approach focuses on learning through discovery.\n> Jean Jacques Rousseau recommended that teachers should exploit individual children's interests in order to make sure each child obtains the information most essential to his personal and individual development. The five developmental domains of childhood development include:\n\n\nRussian psychologist Lev Vygotsky proposed a \"socio-cultural learning theory\" that emphasized the impact of social and cultural experiences on individual thinking and the development of mental processes. Vygotsky's theory emerged in the 1930s and is still discussed today as a means of improving and reforming educational practices.\n\nVygotsky argued that since cognition occurs within a social context, our social experiences shape our ways of thinking about and interpreting the world. Although Vygotsky predated social constructivists, he is commonly classified as one. Social constructivists believe that an individual's cognitive system is a resditional learning time. Vygotsky advocated that teachers facilitate rather than direct student learning. His approach calls for teachers to incorporate students’ needs and interests.\n\nJean Piaget's constructivist theory gained influence in the 1970s and '80s. Although Piaget himself was primarily interested in a descriptive psychology of cognitive development, he also laid the groundwork for a constructivist theory of learning. Piaget believed that learning comes from within: children construct their own knowledge of the world through experience and subsequent reflection. He said that \"if logic itself is created rather than being inborn, it follows that the first task of education is to form reasoning.\" Within Piaget's framework, teachers should guide children in acquiring their own knowledge rather than simply transferring knowledge.\n\nAccording to Piaget’s theory, when young children encounter new information, they attempt to accommodate and assimilate it into their existing understanding of the world. Accommodation involves adapting mental schemas and representations in order to make them consistent with reality. Assimilation involves fitting new information into their pre-existing schemas. Through these two processes, young children learn by equilibrating their mental representations with reality. They also learn from mistakes.\n\nA Piagetian approach emphasizes experiential education; in school, experiences become more hands-on and concrete as students explore through trial and error. Thus, crucial components of early childhood education include exploration, manipulating objects, and experiencing new environments. Subsequent reflection on these experiences is equally important.\n\nPiaget’s concept of reflective abstraction was particularly influential in mathematical education. Through reflective abstraction, children construct more advanced cognitive structures out of the simpler ones they already possess. This allows children to develop mathematical constructs that cannot be learned through equilibration — making sense of experiences through assimilation and accommodation — alone.\n\nAccording to Piagetian theory, language and symbolic representation is preceded by the development of corresponding mental representations. Research shows that the level of reflective abstraction achieved by young children was found to limit the degree to which they could represent physical quantities with written numerals. Piaget held that children can invent their own procedures for the four arithmetical operations, without being taught any conventional rules.\n\nPiaget’s theory implies that computers can be a great educational tool for young children when used to support the design and construction of their projects. McCarrick and Xiaoming found that computer play is consistent with this theory. However, Plowman and Stephen found that the effectiveness of computers is limited in the preschool environment; their results indicate that computers are only effective when directed by the teacher. This suggests, according to the constructivist theory, that the role of preschool teachers is critical in successfully adopting computers.\n\nDavid Kolb's experiential learning theory, which was influenced by John Dewey, Kurt Lewin and Jean Piaget, argues that children need to experience things in order to learn: \"The process whereby knowledge is created through the transformation of experience. Knowledge results from the combinations of grasping and transforming experience.\" The experimental learning theory is distinctive in that children are seen and taught as individuals. As a child explores and observes, teachers ask the child probing questions. The child can then adapt prior knowledge to learning new information.\n\nKolb breaks down this learning cycle into four stages: concrete experience, reflective observation, abstract conceptualisation, and active experimentation. Children observe new situations, think about the situation, make meaning of the situation, then test that meaning in the world around them.\n\nIn recent decades, studies have shown that early childhood education is critical in preparing children to enter and succeed in the (grade school) classroom, diminishing their risk of social-emotional mental health problems and increasing their self-sufficiency later in their lives. In other words, the child needs to be taught to rationalize everything and to be open to interpretations and critical thinking. There is no subject to be considered taboo, starting with the most basic knowledge of the world he lives in, and ending with deeper areas, such as morality, religion and science. Visual stimulus and response time as early as 3 months can be an indicator of verbal and performance IQ at age 4 years.\n\nBy providing education in a child's most formative years, ECE also has the capacity to pre-emptively begin closing the educational achievement gap between low and high-income students before formal schooling begins. Children of low socioeconomic status (SES) often begin school already behind their higher SES peers; on average, by the time they are three, children with high SES have three times the number of words in their vocabularies as children with low SES. Participation in ECE, however, has been proven to increase high school graduation rates, improve performance on standardized tests, and reduce both grade repetition and the number of children placed in special education.\n\nEspecially since the first wave of results from the Perry Preschool Project were published, there has been widespread consensus that the quality of early childhood education programs correlate with gains in low-income children’s IQs and test scores, decreased grade retention, and lower special education rates.\n\nSeveral studies have reported that children enrolled in ECE increase their IQ scores by 4-11 points by age five, while a Milwaukee study reported a 25-point gain. In addition, students who had been enrolled in the Abecedarian Project, an often-cited ECE study, scored significantly higher on reading and math tests by age fifteen than comparable students who had not participated in early childhood programs. In addition, 36% of students in the Abecedarian Preschool Study treatment group would later enroll in four-year colleges compared to 14% of those in the control group.\n\nBeyond benefitting societal good, ECE also significantly impacts the socioeconomic outcomes of individuals. For example, by age 26, students who had been enrolled in Chicago Child-Parent Centers were less likely to be arrested, abuse drugs, and receive food stamps; they were more likely to have high school diplomas, health insurance and full-time employment.\n\nThe World Bank's 2019 World Development Report on \"The Changing Nature of Work\" identifies early childhood development programs as one of the most effective ways governments can equip children with the skills they will need to succeed in future labor markets.\n\nIn Ypsilanti, Michigan, 3 and 4 year-olds from low-income families were randomly assigned to participate in the Perry Preschool. By age 18, they were five times less likely to have become chronic law-breakers than those who were not selected to participate in the Preschool.\n\nThe Perry Preschool Study also found that low-income individuals who were enrolled in a quality preschool program earned on average, by age 40, $5500 per year more than those who were not. The Perry Preschool Study produced a total benefit/cost ratio of 17:1 (4:1 for participants, 13:1 for the public), with participants on average earning higher incomes, more likely to own their own homes, and less likely to be on welfare. \nThe authors of the Perry Preschool Project also propose that the return on investment in education declines with the student's age. This study is noteworthy because it advocates for public spending on early childhood programs as an economic investment in a society's future, rather than in the interest of social justice.\n\nIn 2008, Michael L. Anderson re-examined the data from Perry and similar projects and found \"... girls garnered substantial short- and long-term benefits from the interventions. However, there were no significant long-term benefits for boys.\"\n\nIn the past decade, there has been a national push for state and federal policy to address the early years as a key component of public education. At the federal level, the Obama administration made the Race to the Top Early Learning Challenge a key tenet of their education reform initiative, awarding $500 million to states with comprehensive early childhood education plans. According to the United States Department of Education, this program focuses on \"improving early learning and development programs for young children by supporting States' efforts to: (1) increase the number and percentage of low-income and disadvantaged children in each age group of infants, toddlers, and preschoolers who are enrolled in high-quality early learning programs; (2) design and implement an integrated system of high-quality early learning programs and services; and (3) ensure that any use of assessments conforms with the recommendations of the National Research Council's reports on early childhood.\" In addition, a largely Democratic contingent sponsored the Strong Start for America’s Children Act in 2013, which provides free early childhood education for low-income families. Specifically, the Act would generate the impetus and support for states to expand ECE; provide funding through formula grants and Title II (Learning Quality Partnerships), III (Child Care) and IV (Maternal, Infant and Home Visiting) funds; and hold participating states accountable for Head Start early learning standards.\n\nHead Start grants are awarded directly to public or private non-profit organizations, including community-based and faith-based organizations, or for-profit agencies within a community that wish to compete for funds. The same categories of organizations are eligible to apply for Early Head Start, except that applicants need not be from the community they will be serving.\n\nMany states have created new early childhood education agencies. Massachusetts was the first state to create a consolidated department focused on early childhood learning and care. Just in the past fiscal year, state funding for public In Minnesota, the state government created an Early Learning scholarship program, where families with young children meeting free and reduced price lunch requirements for kindergarten can receive scholarships to attend ECE programs. In California, Senator Darrell Steinberg led a coalition to pass the Kindergarten Readiness Act, which creates a state early childhood system supporting children from birth to age five and provides access to ECE for all 4-year-olds in the state. It also created an Early Childhood Office charged with creating an ECE curriculum that would be aligned with the K-12 continuum.\n\nStates have created legislation regarding early childhood education. In California, for example, The Kindergarten Readiness Act of 2010 changed the required birthday for admittance to kindergarten and first grade, and established a transitional kindergarten program.\n\nState funding for pre-K increased by $363.6 million to a total of $5.6 billion, a 6.9% increase from 2012 to 2013. 40 states fund pre-K programs.\n\nCurrently, one of America's larger challenges regarding ECE is a dearth in workforce, partly due to low compensation for rigorous work. The average early childhood teaching assistant earns an annual salary of $10,500 while the highest paid early childhood educators earn an average $18,000 per year. The turnover of ECE staff averages 31% per year. Another challenge is to ensure the quality of ECE programs. Because ECE is a relatively new field, there is little research and consensus into what makes a good program. However, the National Association of the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) is a national organization that has identified evidence-based ECE standards and accredits quality programs. Continuing the leadership role it established with the Common Core, the federal government could play a key role in establishing ECE standards for states.\n\nThe American legal system has also played a hand in public ECE. State adequacy cases can also create a powerful legal impetus for states to provide universal access to ECE, drawing upon the rich research illustrating that by the time they enter school, students from low-income backgrounds are already far behind other students. The New Jersey case Abbott County School District v. Burke and South Carolina case Abbeville County School District v. State have established early but incomplete precedents in looking at \"adequate education\" as education that addresses needs best identified in early childhood, including immediate and continuous literacy interventions.\n\nIn the 1998 case of Abbott v. Burke (Abbott V), the New Jersey Supreme Court required New Jersey’s poorest school districts to implement high-quality ECE programs and full day kindergarten for all three and four-year-olds. Beyond ruling that New Jersey needed to allocate more funds to preschools in low-income communities in order to reach \"educational adequacy,\" the Supreme court also authorized the state department of education to cooperate \"with… existing early childhood and daycare programs in the community\" to implement universal access.\n\nIn the 2005 case of Abbeville v. State, the South Carolina Supreme Court decided that ECE programs were necessary to break the \"debilitating and destructive cycle of poverty for low-income students and poor academic achievement.\" Besides mandating that all low-income children have access to ECE by age three, the court also held that early childhood interventions—such as counseling, special needs identification, and socio-emotional supports—continue through grade three (Abbeville, 2005). The court furthermore argued that ECE was not only imperative for educational adequacy but also that \"the dollars spent in early childhood intervention are the most effective expenditures in the educational process.\"\n\nThe 2019 budget approved by President Donald Trump included a 21 percent cut in Department of Health and Human Services funding. This is where most early education and care programs like Head Start are included. The department’s budget highlights doing away with the pre-school development grant program which aided 18 states in spreading out access to pre-K for 4-year old children during the last few years. It helped said states in improving overall quality of pre-K programs. This program was initiated during the Obama administration because of Every Student Succeeds Act or ESSA under the DHHS. \n\nThe federal government called for a minimal increase in Head Start funding with approximately $9.3 billion for said program. This subsidy is estimated to serve around 861,000 kids. However, the administration withdrew the requirement that such program started serving children for a longer day and school year due to insufficient funding. The Center for American Progress said President Trump and the House of Representatives advocated deep cuts in programs that were supposed to help impoverished families rather than attend to the needs of low and middle-income households through paid leave and child care as well as increasing minimum wage.\n\nUnlike other areas of education, early childhood care and education (ECCE) places strong emphasis on developing the whole child – attending to his or her social, emotional, cognitive and physical needs – in order to establish a solid and broad foundation for lifelong learning and well-being. ‘Care’ includes health, nutrition and hygiene in a warm, secure and nurturing environment; and ‘education’ includes stimulation, socialization, guidance, participation, learning and developmental activities. ECCE begins at birth and can be organized in a variety of non-formal, formal and informal modalities, such as parenting education, health-based mother and child intervention, care institutions, child-to-child programmes, home-based or centre-based childcare, kindergartens and pre-schools. Different terms to describe ECCE are used by different countries, institutions and stakeholders, such as early childhood development (ECD), early childhood education and care (ECEC), early childhood care and development (ECCD), with Early Childhood Care and Education as the UNESCO nomenclature.\n\nAs research shows, children’s care and educational needs are intertwined. Poor care, health, nutrition, and physical and emotional security can affect educational potentials in the form of mental retardation, impaired cognitive and behavioural capacities, motor development delay, depression, difficulties with concentration and attention. Inversely, early health and nutrition interventions, such as iron supplementation, deworming treatment and school feeding, have been shown to directly contribute to increased pre-school attendance. Studies have demonstrated better child outcomes through the combined intervention of cognitive stimulation and nutritional supplementation than through either cognitive stimulation or nutritional supplementation alone. Quality ECCE is one that integrates educational activities, nutrition, health care and social services.\n\nDecades of research provide unequivocal evidence that public investment in early childhood care and education can produce economic returns equal to roughly 10 times its costs. The sources of these gains are (1) child care that enables mothers to work and (2) education and other supports for child development that increase subsequent school success, labour force productivity, prosocial behaviour, and health. The benefits from enhanced child development are the largest part of the economic return, but both are important considerations in policy and programme design.The economic consequences include reductions in public and private expenditures associated with school failure, crime, and health problems as well as increases in earnings.\n\nThe first World Conference on Early Childhood Care and Education took place in Moscow from 27 to 29 September 2010, jointly organized by UNESCO and the city of Moscow. The overarching goals of the conference are to:\nAccording to UNESCO a preschool curriculum is one that delivers educational content through daily activities, and furthers a child's physical, cognitive and social development. Generally, preschool curricula are only recognized by governments if they are based on academic research and reviewed by peers.\n\nPreschool for Child Rights have pioneered into preschool curricular areas and is contributing into child rights through their preschool curriculum.\n\nCurricula in early childhood care and education (ECCE) is the driving force behind any ECCE programme. It is ‘an integral part of the engine that, together with the energy and motivation of staff, provides the momentum that makes programmes live’. It follows therefore that the quality of a programme is greatly influenced by the quality of its curriculum. In early childhood, these may be programmes for children or parents, including health and nutrition interventions and prenatal programmes, as well as centre-based programmes for children.\n\nA lack of education during the early childhood years for Orphans is a worldwide concern. Orphans are at higher risk of \"missing out on schooling, living in households with less food security, and suffering from anxiety and depression.\" Education during these years has the potential to improve a child's \"food and nutrition, health care, social welfare, and protection.\" This crisis is especially prevalent in sub-saharan Africa which has been heavily impacted by the aids epidemic. UNICEF reports that \"13.3 million children (0-17 years) worldwide have lost one or both parents to AIDS. Nearly 12 million of these children live in sub-Saharan Africa.\" Government policies such as The Free Basic Education Policy have worked to provide education for orphan children in this area, but the quality and inclusiveness of this policy has brought criticism.\n\nChildren’s learning potential and outcomes are negatively affected by exposure to violence, abuse and child labour. Thus, protecting young children from violence and exploitation is part of broad educational concerns. Due to difficulties and sensitivities around the issue of measuring and monitoring child protection violations and gaps in defining, collecting and analysing appropriate indicators, data coverage in this area is scant. However, proxy indicators can be used to assess the situation. For example, ratification of relevant international conventions indicates countries’ commitment to child protection. By April 2014, 194 countries had ratified the CRC3; and 179 had ratified the 1999 International Labour Organization’s Convention (No. 182) concerning the elimination of the worst forms of child labour. But, many of these ratifications are yet to be given full effect through actual implementation of concrete measures. Globally, 150 million children aged 5–14 are estimated to be engaged in child labour. In conflict-affected poor countries, children are twice as likely to die before their fifth birthday compared to those in other poor countries. In industrialized countries, 4 per cent of children are physically abused each year and 10 per cent are neglected or psychologically abused.\n\nIn both developed and developing countries, children of the poor and the disadvantaged remain the least served. This exclusion persists against the evidence that the added value of early childhood care and education services are higher for them than for their more affluent counterparts, even when such services are of modest quality. While the problem is more intractable in developing countries, the developed world still does not equitably provide quality early childhood care and education services for all its children. In many European countries, children, mostly from low-income and immigrant families, do not have access to good quality early childhood care and education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "447089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447089", "title": "Experiential education", "text": "Experiential education\n\nExperiential education is a philosophy of education that describes the process that occurs between a teacher and student that infuses direct experience with the learning environment and content. The term is not interchangeable with experiential learning; however experiential learning is a sub-field and operates under the methodologies of experiential education. The Association for Experiential Education regards experiential education as \"a philosophy that informs many methodologies in which educators purposefully engage with learners in direct experience and focused reflection in order to increase knowledge, develop skills, clarify values, and develop people's capacity to contribute to their communities\". Experiential education is the term for the philosophy and educational progressivism is the movement which it informed.\n\nJohn Dewey was the most famous proponent of experiential education, writing \"Experience and Education\" (1938). It expressed his ideas about curriculum theory in the context of historical debates about school organization and the need to have experience as central in the educational process; hence, experiential education is referred to as a philosophy. Dewey's fame during that period rested on relentlessly critiquing public education and pointing out that the authoritarian, strict, pre-ordained knowledge approach of modern traditional education was too concerned with delivering knowledge, and not enough with understanding students' experiences.\n\nDewey's work influenced dozens of other prominent experiential models and advocates in the later 20th century, including Foxfire, service learning, Kurt Hahn and Outward Bound, and Paulo Freire. Freire is often cited in works on experiential education. He focused on the participation by students in experience and radical democracy, and the creation of \"praxis\" among learners.\n\nJohn Dewey was an educator, but he was foremost a philosopher. His interests included political philosophy, metaphysics, epistemology, aesthetics, logic, and philosophy of education. Political philosophy was one of his many philosophical interests. He saw weaknesses in both the traditional and progressive styles of education. He explains in length his criticisms of both forms of education in his book, \"Experience & Education\" (1938). In essence, he did not believe that they met the goals of education, which he defined as obtaining freedom of thought. Dewey did not believe in freedom of thought in any kind of absolute sense.\n\nDewey advocated that education be based upon the quality of experience. For an experience to be educational, Dewey believed that certain parameters had to be met, the most important of which is that the experience has continuity and interaction. Continuity is the idea that the experience comes from and leads to other experiences, in essence propelling the person to learn more. Interaction is when the experience meets the internal needs or goals of a person. Dewey also categorizes experiences as possibly being mis-educative and non-educative. A mis-educative experience is one that stops or distorts growth for future experiences. A non-educative experience is one in which a person has not done any reflection and so has obtained nothing for mental growth that is lasting (\"Experience & Education,\" Dewey).\n\nIn addition to the notions raised by Dewey, recent research has shown that experiential learning does not replace traditional methods of learning but supplements it in the form of laboratory and clinical learning to offer additional skills, perspectives, and understanding of relationships. Instead, experiential learning is designed to improve one's understanding by giving one the freedom to explore and find the learning path that is most suitable for them.\n\nThe methodologies reflected in experiential education have evolved since the time of Hahn and Dewey. For experiential education to become efficient pedagogy, physical experience must be combined with reflection. Adding reflective practice, allows for personal introspection of challenges and key learnings. That is, physical challenges provide a gateway in which we can observe qualities about ourselves, and those whom we are working with. Further, for the efficacy of experiential education, experiences must be separated, giving the learner sufficient time to process the information.\n\nExperiential education informs many educational practices underway in schools (formal education) and out-of-school (informal education) programs. Many teaching methods rely on experiential education to provide context and frameworks for learning through action and reflection while others at higher levels (university and professional education) focus on field skills and modeling.\n\n\nExperiential education serves as an umbrella for linking many diverse practices into a coherent whole. Its philosophy is closely linked to numerous other educational theories, but it should not be conflated with progressive education, critical pedagogy, youth empowerment, feminist-based education, and constructivism. The development of experiential education as a philosophy has been intertwined with the development of these other educational theories; their contrasts have clarified differences.\n\nFellowships and other training programs are available for experiential educators; but, formal training in experiential methods is lacking for K-12 undergraduate teaching programs (see Wendel, A. and Mantil, A., (2008) and the National Society for Experiential Education).\n\nExamples of experiential education can be found in various disciplines. The educator Lucy Calkins writes,\nIf we asked our students for the highlight of their school careers, most would choose a time when they dedicated themselves to an endeavor of great importance...I am thinking of youngsters from P.S. 321, who have launched a save-the-tree campaign to prevent the oaks outside their school from being cut down. I am thinking of children who write the school newspaper, act in the school play, organize the playground building committee... On projects such as these, youngsters will work before school, after school, during lunch. Our youngsters want to work hard on endeavors they deem significant.\n\nWriting journals proves to be quite effective as part of English classes. Specifically, by writing \"personal\" and \"text-related\" journals, students find meaning in their own thoughts as well as in concepts learned in class. Personal journaling is the recording of past and present personal thoughts and events in the student's life to enhance self-awareness, student interest, and learning. Text-related journaling is writing about concepts learned in class in relation to students' personal experiences, to promote understanding.\n\nThe Nicodemus Wilderness Project provides an environmental experiential education program with a global reach called the \"Apprentice Ecologist Initiative\". This scholarship-based opportunity is targeted for youth volunteers who want to help protect the environment. The initiative seeks to develop young people for leadership roles by engaging them in environmental cleanup and conservation projects, empower volunteers to rebuild the environmental and social well-being of our communities, and improve local living conditions for both citizens and wildlife.\n\nPresidential Classroom, a non-profit civic education organization in Washington D.C., is open to high school students from across the country and abroad. They meet and interact with government officials, media correspondents, congressman, and key players on the world stage to learn how public policy shapes many aspects of citizens' lives. Students travel to Washington and spend a week hearing from prominent speakers, meet with interest group spokesmen and tour the national capital. Students participate in a group project directed by experienced instructors; they have mediated debates on current issues facing the country. The focus of the week is to give students a hands-on introduction to how \"real world\" politics take place.\n\nGlobal College, a four-year international study program offered by Long Island University, is based on self-guided, experiential learning while a student is immersed in foreign cultures. Regional centers employ mostly advisors rather than teaching faculty; these advisors guide the individual students in preparing a \"portfolio of learning\" each semester to display the results of their experiences and projects.\n\nThe New England Literature Program in the English Department at the University of Michigan is a 45-day program, in which University instructors live and work together with 40 UM students in the woods of Maine in early spring. They intensively study 19th and 20th-century New England literature, in a program that includes creative writing in the form of academic journaling, as well as a deep physical engagement with the landscape of New England. NELP students and staff take hiking trips into the White Mountains and other parts of the New England natural areas each week, integrating their experience of the landscape with writing and discussion of texts.\n\nThe Chicago Center for Urban Life and Culture is the only nonprofit and independent experiential educational program for college students in the United States. The Chicago Center is distinguished by unique seminars characterized by a 'First Voice' pedagogy, its location in the multi-ethnic Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago, and development of several hundred internship sites in Chicago. While many of the students who attend Chicago Center grew up in cities, the majority are from suburban, rural and farming communities. Students participate individually in its Semester, May Term and Summer Session. The Chicago Center also designs and staffs programs for groups, what it calls \"LearnChicago!\", which promise non-tourist experiences in the city.\n\nThe Philadelphia Center is an off-campus program based on a model of experiential education. Recognized by The Great Lakes Colleges Association, The Philadelphia Center is currently the only undergraduate level program that supports independent living and encourages the use of the city as a learning space.\n\nSeveral Australian high schools have established experiential education programmes, including Caulfield Grammar School's five-week internationalism programme in Nanjing, China and Geelong Grammar School's Timbertop outdoor education programme.\n\nAt the professional school level, experiential education is often integrated into curricula in \"clinical\" courses following the medical school model of \"See one, Do one, Teach one\", in which students learn by practicing medicine. This approach is being introduced in other professions in which skills are directly worked into courses to teach every concept (starting with interviewing, listening skills, negotiation, contract writing and advocacy, for example) to larger-scale projects in which students run legal aid clinics or community loan programs, or write legislation or community development plans.\n\nThe Boys and Girls Club of America provides a framework for youth development professionals to employ experiential learning methods.\n\nLifeworks International offers experiential, service-learning programs for high school students. Trips combine adventure travel, cultural immersion, community service, and global education during expeditions in China, Thailand, India, Costa Rica, Peru, the British Virgin Islands, and Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands.\n\nIn Legal Education, critical pedagogy is associated with devising more equitable methods of teaching, helping students develop consciousness of freedom, and helping them connect knowledge to power.\n\nWhether teachers employ experiential education in cultural journalism, service learning, environmental education, or more traditional school subjects, its key idea involves engaging student voice in active roles for the purpose of learning. Armstrong (2012) claims that students should be responsible for learning, not teachers. Students participate in a real activity with real consequences for the purpose of meeting learning objectives.\n\nExperiential education uses various tools like field work, policy and civic activity, and entrepreneurship outside of the classroom along with games, simulations, role plays, stories in classrooms. The experiential education mindset changes the way the teachers and students view knowledge. Knowledge is no longer just some letters on a page. It becomes active, something that is transacted with in life or lifelike situations. It starts to make teachers experience and skill facilitators, and not just transmitters of the written word.\n\nBesides changing student roles, experiential education requires a change in the role of teachers. When students are active learners, their endeavors often take them outside the classroom walls. Because action precedes attempts to synthesize knowledge, teachers generally cannot plan a curriculum unit as a neat, predictable package. Teachers become active learners, too, experimenting together with their students, reflecting upon the learning activities they have designed, and responding to their students' reactions to the activities. In this way, teachers themselves become more active; they come to view themselves as more than just recipients of school district policy and curriculum decisions.\n\nIt is also important to point out that not all learners learn in the same way. As a result, there are diverse learners that have unique learning styles pertinent to their success as students. Studies have shown that cooperative learning is strongly suggested in a diverse learning atmosphere. \"Contemporary views of learning and their pedagogical applications have begun to change traditional classroom interaction patterns, shaping the communicative roles of the teacher and students as participants in a classroom learning community,\" write David Wray & Kristiina Kumpulainen. This paradigm shift in education gives both the student and teacher shared responsibility of the learning process. The teacher's participation in discussion sessions is to act as a facilitator, maintain classroom decorum, provide individual and group feedback, and alleviate concerns or issues in the lesson.\n\nCritical thinking strategies are pertinent to the success of student-oriented learning. When students are engaged in active discussions, high-level thinking skills are put into practice to the point where students are synthesizing the information at a deeper level of understanding. According to Elliot Eisner, \"We need to provide opportunities for youngsters and adolescents to engage in challenging kinds of conversation, and we need to help them know how to do so. Such conversation is all too rare in schools. I use 'conversation' seriously, for challenging conversation is an intellectual affair. It has to do with thinking about what people have said and responding reflectively, analytically, and imaginatively to that process. The practice of conversation is almost a lost art. The most significant intellectual achievement is not so much in problem solving, but in question posing.\" Through experimental education, students are capable of finding their voice through peer-to-peer interaction. Students are now seen as active participants in the learning process. Vygotsky`s social development theory requires students to play untraditional roles as they collaborate with one another through critical thinking and conversational skills. According to Ann Ketch, author of Conversation: The comprehension connection writes, \"The oral process helps students clarify and solidify their thoughts. The thinking changes from what it was before the conversation took place. Through conversation, the student is in charge of his or her own mental processing. The teacher acts as a facilitator, pushing the student to rely upon and monitor his or her own comprehension, which fosters critical thinking.\" This is very vital because student conversation can elicit new ideas that may not have been mentioned or even thought of by another student. Therefore, student dialogue is very important because it helps individuals make sense of what is being learned. It also helps build respect for other's opinions while taking ownership of his or her learning process.\n\nIn experimental education, students are given the opportunity to apply their knowledge and skills by making connections to the real world. Therefore, effective learning entails active experimentation with a hands-on approach to learning. It is perceived that students learn more by being active. Students are interdependent in establishing group goals and decision-making skills. As a result, students are also capable of developing leadership skills, which can also enhance student motivation and confidence.\n\nWhen students are given a choice in terms of content to be learned, it ensures the teacher that his or her learners are interactive in the learning process. According to Ernie Stringer, \"Action learners move through continuous cycles of this inquiry process to improve their understanding, extend their knowledge, or refine their skills.\" When given a preference, students may feel motivated to take control of his or her learning experience. Student incentives are tied to progress in academic achievement. \"Research indicates that intrinsic motivation stems from one's interests and capacities to surmount challenge s when presented or pursued,\" says Fenice B. Boyd. Many schools are encouraging teachers to tap into student interests with the hope that they transfer that motivation into the classroom.\n\nThrough the continuous cycle of learning, teacher's often work with students to develop a framework of knowledge, which is to be evaluated based on student input to the lessons content. Therefore, the teacher should establish criteria of what is to be learned as related to the student(s) choice in learning material. Ernie Stringer draws on the importance that \"action research provides a process for developing a rich, engaging curriculum relevant to the lives and purposes of students, engaging their interests and abilities, and serving the broad human needs of community, society, and the planet. Creative construction of curricula or syllabi provides the means whereby the needs, perspectives, and/or interests of diverse stakeholders can be incorporated into vital, creative, effective programs of learning.\" In essence, a well-planned curriculum is designed for learning that encompasses a broad range of goals and individual needs that ensures the active learning process.\n\nAs students and teachers take on new roles, the traditional organizational structures of the school also may meet challenges. For example, at the Challenger Middle School in Colorado Springs, Colorado, service activities are an integral part of the academic program. Such nontraditional activities require teachers and administrators to look at traditional practices in new ways. For instance, they may consider reorganizing time blocks. They may also teach research methods by involving students in investigations of the community, rather than restricting research activities to the library (Rolzinski, 1990). \n\nAt the University Heights Alternative School in the Bronx, the Project Adventure experiential learning program has led the faculty to adopt an all-day time block as an alternative to the traditional 45-minute periods. The faculty now organizes the curriculum by project instead of by separate disciplines. Schools that promote meaningful student involvement actively engage students as partners in education improvement activities. These young people learn while planning, researching, teaching, and making decisions that affect the entire education system.\n\nOther university level programs are entirely field-taught on outdoor expeditions. These courses combine traditional academic readings and written assignments with field observations, service projects, open discussions of course material, and meetings with local speakers who are involved with the course subjects. These \"hybrid\" experiential/traditional programs aim to provide the academic rigor of a classroom course with the breadth and personal connections of experiential education.\n\nAt first, these new roles and structures may seem unfamiliar and uncomfortable to both students and adults in the school. Traditionally, students have most often been rewarded for competing rather than cooperating with one another. Teachers are not often called upon for collaborative work either. Teaching has traditionally been an activity carried out in isolation from one's peers, behind closed doors. Principals, accustomed to the traditional hierarchical structure of schools, often do not know how to help their teachers constitute self-managed work teams or how to help teachers coach students to work in cooperative teams. The techniques of experiential education can help students and staff adjust to teamwork, an important part of the process of reforming schools.\n\nAdventure education may use the philosophy of experiential education in developing team and group skills in both students and adults (Rohnke, 1989). Initially, groups work to solve problems that are unrelated to the problems in their actual school environment. For example, in a ropes course designed to build the skills required by teamwork, a faculty or student team might work together to get the entire group over a 12-foot wall or through an intricate web of rope. After each challenge in a series of this kind, the group looks at how it functioned as a team:\n\n\nThe wall or web of rope can then become a metaphor for the classroom or school environment. While the problems and challenges of the classroom or school are different from the physical challenges of the adventure activity, many skills needed to respond successfully as a team are the same in both settings.\n\nThese skills — listening, recognizing each other's strengths, and supporting each other through difficulties — can apply equally well to an academic Socratic Method of questioning or problem-solving toward schoolwide improvement efforts.\n\nFor example, the Kane School in Lawrence, Massachusetts has been using adventure as a tool for school restructuring. The entire faculty — particularly the Faculty Advisory Council, which shares the decisionmaking responsibilities with the principal — has honed group skills through experiential education activities developed by Project Adventure. These skills include open communication, methods of conflict resolution, and mechanisms for decision making (High Strides, 1990).\n\nEstablished in 1973, \"Breakthrough\" in Hong Kong was the first non-profit organization that applied the concepts of experiential education (though primarily conceptualized in terms of outdoor adventure education) in youth works. Since then, development in experiential education has proceeded in Singapore, Taiwan, Macau, and some large cities in China.\n\nExperiential methods in education have existed in China for thousands of years. However, it should be noted that John Dewey was in China in the early 1900s and his ideas were extremely popular. Interest in Dewey's experience in China and contribution is growing.\n\nExperiential education started in Qatar in 2010 through AL-Bairaq, which is an outreach, non-traditional educational program that targets high school students and focuses on a curriculum based on STEM fields. The idea behind AL-Bairaq is to offer high school students the opportunity to connect with the research environment in the Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University. Faculty members train and mentor the students and help develop and enhance their critical thinking, problem-solving, and teamwork skills, using a hands-on-activities approach.\n\nThere are multiple ways in which experiential education is practiced. Examples of experiential learning methods used include:\n\n\nAll of these use the pattern of problem, plan, test and reflect as their foundation for the educative experience.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "974650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=974650", "title": "FAFSA", "text": "FAFSA\n\nThe Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is a form that can be prepared annually by current and prospective college students (undergraduate and graduate) in the United States to determine their eligibility for student financial aid.\n\nThe FAFSA should not be confused with the CSS Profile, which is also required by some colleges. The CSS is a fee-based product of the College Board and usually used by colleges to distribute their own institutional funding rather than federal or state.\n\nNearly every student is eligible for some form of financial aid. Students who may not be eligible for need-based aid may still be eligible for an unsubsidized Stafford Loan regardless of income or circumstances.\n\nA student who can meet all of the following criteria may be eligible for aid:\n\n\nStudent Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) of 2010 changed the criteria for suspension of eligibility for drug-related offenses. Previously, students could lose eligibility for either the possession or sale of a controlled substance during the period of enrollment. SAFRA dropped the penalties for possession of a controlled substance but retained the penalties for sale of a controlled substance. SAFRA increases the suspension to two years for a first offense and indefinite for a second offense.\n\nStudents who are military veterans and active duty service members may apply for financial aid by filing a FAFSA even if they also apply for education and housing benefits offered by the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill and its accompanying Yellow Ribbon program. The amount of military aid a student receives for a college education does not defer eligibility or reduce the amount of student aid that student could receive from the four federal grant programs – Pell, SMART, FSEOG, and TEACH – and many of the state student aid programs.\n\nBeginning with the 2017-2018 academic year, the FAFSA is made available to the public on October 1. The 2016-2017 academic year was the final time the FAFSA was made available on January 1. The US Department of Education made the FAFSA available earlier to more closely align the timing of the financial aid application process with the typical college application process. Additionally, 2-year old US tax information is used to complete the financial sections of the FAFSA beginning with the 2017-2018 academic year. This change in using \"prior-prior tax year\" information enables families to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool in the FAFSA to verify their tax information without a delay from the IRS processing tax information. Some financial aid is provided on a first-come, first-served basis, and students are encouraged to submit a FAFSA as soon as possible.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Education's website, students have three preparation options:\n\n\nThe Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 authorized fee-based FAFSA preparation. By law, fee-based FAFSA preparation services must on initial contact with students inform them of the free option and be transparent about their non-affiliation with the U.S. Department of Education and their fees. Students should not engage with FAFSA preparation firms that are not transparent about FAFSA options and their fees upfront, or that promise to obtain scholarships.\n\nIn addition to demographic and financial information, applicants can list up to ten schools to receive the results of the application once it is processed. Historically, there was some concern that colleges could deny admission, waitlist applicants, or offer less financial aid as a result of the order in which applicants list schools on the application, or FAFSA position. However, the US Department of Education changed the FAFSA for the 2016-2017 academic year to prevent schools from having access to view other schools that may be listed on the application.\n\nAfter completing the FAFSA, students are presented with a Student Aid Report (SAR). The SAR provides a student with their potential eligibility for different types of financial aid, their Expected Family Contribution (EFC), and a summary of the data a student provided in the application. Students should carefully review the SAR for errors and make any corrections as necessary. An electronic version of the SAR (called an ISIR) is made available to the colleges/universities the student includes on the FAFSA. The ISIR is also sent to state agencies that award need-based aid.\n\nFederal Student Aid offers several different types of financial aid. The four most common types of aid students are offered from the federal government as a result of completing a FAFSA are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8943937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8943937", "title": "Fingerplay", "text": "Fingerplay\n\nFingerplay, commonly seen in early childhood, is hand action or movement combined with singing or spoken-words to engage the child's interest. According to Erikson, many children develop autonomy and \"want to learn and imitate the activities and behavior of others\". According to Wong's \"Essentials of Pediatric Nursing\", \"gestures precedes speech and in this way a child communicates satisfactorily\". From all ages children become active listeners and can control their eyes, body, and attention on the teacher.\n\nSome chants or common rhymes that incorporate fingerplay include the \"Itsy Bitsy Spider\", \"Round and round the garden\", and \"This Little Piggy\". The article entitled, \"Fingerplay Fun\" explains fingerplay as a form of chants or songs to gather the child's attention. Reciting chants or stories \"help him develop an ear for sounds and discover that sounds can be manipulated and changed\".\nAn example of fingerplay, \"Five Little Monkeys\":\n\n<poem>\nFive little monkeys (five fingers)\nJumping on the bed—(rest elbow on other hand, jump arm up and down)\nOne fell off, (hold up one finger, bring down as if falling)\nAnd bumped his head. (hand to head)\n</poem>\n\nA fingerplay is a nursery rhyme for children that uses hand movements coordinated with words to engage and sustain children's interest. Fingerplays can be in the form of songs or chants. Typical examples would be the \"Itsy Bitsy Spider\", \"Round and round the garden\", or \"This Little Piggy\". Teachers use fingerplays to introduce poetry to children and introduce new concepts. They can also help children develop such skills as fine motor co-ordination and following directions.\n"}
{"id": "2179192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179192", "title": "First school", "text": "First school\n\nSee infant school, junior school, or primary school and primary education.\n\n"}
{"id": "52571153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52571153", "title": "Flying Chalks", "text": "Flying Chalks\n\nFlying Chalks is a Singapore-based start-up company. Their primary service lies in providing an integrated platform to enhance the overseas experiences of tertiary students worldwide.\n\nFlying Chalks seeks to help students connect with local and international friends, plan their overseas trips, and share advice and experiences. Users have to first create an account either through Facebook or directly on the platform. The platform provides university guides with country- and university-specific information curated by the Flying Chalks team. It also contains user-generated content such as university reviews, travel stories, and tips for overseas students. In addition, Flying Chalks has a Facebook feed featuring stories of students who are currently on or have completed their studies abroad in the Humans of New York style.\n\nThe company monetizes by working with relevant service providers and companies/institutions interested in paying to engage their student community. They work with corporate partners such as insurance agencies, events platforms and telecom companies to provide discounts for students. They are also featured in foreign embassies, local and overseas universities as well as other platforms such as Skyscanner, allowing them to reach out to students who are travelling overseas for their university education or exchange programmes.\n\nFlying Chalks was founded by Melvin Lee, a graduate from Singapore Management University, in May 2015. It was awarded incubation at the Singapore Management University's Institute of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in November 2015.\n\nFlying Chalks launched their Minimum Viable Product on 5 January 2016. They went on establish partnerships with student clubs, universities and embassies, as well as expanded their platform by including more content and introducing new features. Following the upgrade, users can use the live chat function to interact with one another more easily. Within 6 months from the official launch, Flying Chalks’ community grew to 2,000 students from more than 50 universities worldwide.\n\nFlying Chalks received the i.JAM Reload Tier 1 Grant under Expara IDM Ventures in March 2016. In July, the team took part in the Startup Alley at the Expo for Property, Investing & Crowdfunding (EPIC) organised by CoAssets, where they presented the company and their product.\n\nTo date, the platform has gathered more than 5,000 international users.\n\nFlying Chalks was one of 78 start-ups to be invited to Korea for the K-Startup Grand Challenge 2016 by the Korean government. A total of 2,439 companies across 124 countries applied.\n\nThey emerged first runner up and received $15,000 in cash funding at the P.A.K. Entrepreneurs’ Challenge 2016, a competition that seeks to identify and support teams with the most executable and validated business ideas.\n\nIn 2015, Flying Chalks emerged as the finalist at the SICC-SMU Eureka Prize, a competition organised by the Singapore Management University to encourage students to come up with innovative and commercially feasible ideas.\n\nMelvin was awarded the Promising SME 500 Youth Entrepreneur Award in 2016 for his founding role in Flying Chalks.\n\n"}
{"id": "44993478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44993478", "title": "George P. Norton", "text": "George P. Norton\n\nGeorge Pepler Norton (1858 - 1939 ) was a British accountant, known for the publication of his 1889 \"Textile Manufacturers' Bookkeeping\", which contributed to the establishment of modern cost accounting.\n\nNorton was born in Hampton Wick near London to George Pepler Norton and Eleanor Morris. He obtained a license and worked as chartered accountant. In 1889 he published his most known work \"Textile Manufacturers' Bookkeeping,\" which is considered one of the first comprehensive treatments of \"the cost problems of a firm using the process cost method.\" This work ran in five edition, the fifth edition published in 1931. Solomons recalled that the importance of this work lies \"in the fact that his book-keeping system for textile manufacturing, which dates back to 1889, clearly foreshadowed standard costing.\"\n\nNorton made a significant contribution to the development of cost accounting. Chandra and Paperman (1976) specified, that \"serious studies in cost accounting started only in the 1890s with the writings of Metcalfe, Garcke and Fells, Norton, Lewis, and later with Church, Nicholson and Clark. They were truly the pioneers who introduced new cost concepts like fixed and variable costs, standard cost, cost centers, relevant costs, etc. in the literature. The development of cost accounting in this period was undoubtedly slow. In addition, cost accounting tried to adapt itself within the framework of financial accounting. Part of the delay in the establishment of cost accounting concepts may be due to the tendency of cost accountants to keep the methods they had developed within their own firms secret.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "32996403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32996403", "title": "George Stiny", "text": "George Stiny\n\nGeorge Stiny is an American design and computation theorist. He co-created the concept of shape grammars with James Gips.\n\nStiny was educated at MIT and UCLA. He has taught at the University of Sydney, the Royal College of Art (London), and the Open University. He was on the faculty at UCLA for fifteen years before joining the MIT Department of Architecture in 1996. He currently is a Professor in the Computation Group of the Department of Architecture at MIT.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26856068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26856068", "title": "George Westinghouse Award (ASEE)", "text": "George Westinghouse Award (ASEE)\n\nThe George Westinghouse Award, named after George Westinghouse, was given by the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) for outstanding contributions to engineering education. It was awarded to \"a young engineering educator of outstanding ability to recognize and encourage his or her contributions to improving engineering teaching\".\n\nThe award was established by the Westinghouse Foundation in 1946, last issued in 1999 and consisted of an honorarium and a certificate.\n\nThe following people received the George Westinghouse Award:\n Westinghouse's principal foundation for the company's social investments.\n"}
{"id": "4161647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4161647", "title": "INFOhio", "text": "INFOhio\n\nINFOhio, the Information Network for Ohio schools, is the state's virtual PreK-12 library that uses the existing school telecommunications infrastructure to address equity issues by providing electronic resources, library automation, and other services to Ohio schools. These resources are linked to student achievement and performance, standards-based instruction, teacher effectiveness, and technological competency and are accessible from not only the school library, but also from classroom, lab, and home computers.\n\nINFOhio provides the standardized library automation software to put card catalogs online, which makes it possible for students and educators to access a variety of materials, including books and other resources in the school library as well as other libraries across the state.\n\nSince 1994, INFOhio has automated more than 2,343 school libraries serving than 1.1 million students.\n\n"}
{"id": "54189613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54189613", "title": "Jane Piper", "text": "Jane Piper\n\nJane Piper (1916–1991) was an American artist known for her abstract treatment of still lifes. Building on the French modernist tradition of Matisse and Cézanne, she gave color precedence over representation. Shortly after her death a critic said \"throughout her career Piper worked within a relatively narrow aesthetic range. She was interested in spatial organization and in creating space through color — concerns of another painter she admired, Henri Matisse. There's a sense of Matisse in her later work, but no indication that she was trying to imitate him; the resonance reflects shared concerns.\" From her first exhibition in 1943 through the end of her life she was given a total of thirty-four solo exhibitions in Philadelphia, New York, and other East Coast galleries and her works have been collected by major museums including the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, the Brooklyn Museum, the National Academy of Design, The Phillips Collection, and the Carnegie Museum of Art.\n\nPiper was raised in a prosperous and well-connected Philadelphia family. At the age of nine she spent a year at a pension in Cannes where, observing an amateur artist at work, she became infatuated with painting and afterwards convinced her reluctant father to enroll her in an art class. After a few years' study under the Philadelphia artist Grace Gemberling, she was able to study art as a boarder in a private school for girls, Westover School in Middlebury, Connecticut. Graduating in 1935, she returned to Philadelphia where she studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, first under Daniel Garber, whom she found to be too authoritarian, and then under Arthur Carles whose instruction she felt to be the most useful of all her teachers and whose artistic influence remained with her for the rest of her career. In 1936 she also enrolled for private study with the artist and collector Earl Horter. In his studio, her frequent close contact with paintings by Picasso, Braque, and Matisse made her aware of new possibilities in her own work. The influence of French Modernism on her work was also enhanced by informal study in Paris in 1937 and periods of study in the Barnes collection in 1938. Three years later she spent the summer months at the school Hans Hofmann conducted in Provincetown, Massachusetts. Piper appreciated Hofmann's instruction but preferred Carles's.\n\nAlthough Piper was a productive artist, fiercely devoted to her work, she had no need of income from sales and showed as frequently in non-commercial as commercial galleries. Her first appearance in a public exhibition occurred in 1931 when a painting of hers was included in a children's art show at a Philadelphia women's cultural organization called the Plastic Club. Grace Gemberling mounted the show to put works by her young students on display. Piper's contribution was in a set of pictures on the theme of jealousy. Reviewing the show, C. H. Bonte of the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" found the work in general to be natural and spontaneous and the jealousy set in particular to be emotionally overwhelming.\nPiper's unnamed and unsigned painting of 1942-43, called \"Composition in Red,\" indicates the style of her work at the beginning of her professional career. During her career she participated in exhibitions held by non-commercial organizations included group and solo shows at the Philadelphia Art Alliance, Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, Woodmere Art Museum, Philadelphia Arts Festival, Philadelphia Center for Architecture, Cheltenham Art Center, Wallingford Community Center, and galleries in Friends' Central School, Swarthmore College, Lehigh University and New York Studio School. A traveling exhibition, \"Jane Piper: Retrospective Paintings, 1940–1985,\" was first mounted in James Madison University in 1985. In 1943 Piper was given her first appearance in a commercial gallery. Remarkably, this debut was a solo exhibition. The venue was the Robert Carlen Gallery in Philadelphia. She was given a second solo show at Carlen in 1959. Her first solo exhibition in a New York commercial gallery was at the Bonestell Gallery in 1947. Other commercial solo shows included the Dubin Gallery (Philadelphia, 1954), Parma Gallery (New York, 1958), Cherry Stone Gallery (Wellfleet, Mass., 1971), Bodley Gallery (New York, 1981), Mangel Gallery (Philadelphia, 1987), and Rising Tide Gallery (Wellfleet, Mass., 1990). Beginning in 1971, she also had eight solo exhibitions at the Gross-McCleaf Gallery in Philadelphia. Throughout the course of her career, Piper was given thirty-four solo exhibitions in commercial and non-commercial galleries in Philadelphia, New York, and Cape Cod.\n\nPiper's untitled painting of 1961 indicates the non-objective style of her work late in her career.\n\nCritical reception of Piper's work was at first tepid but grew stronger as her career progressed. Reviewing her first show in 1943, a critic complained that the paintings were overly-abstract and decorative, \"admirably adapted for the adornment of modern rooms.\" In 1956 her paintings received praise as \"poetic light-filled abstractions.\" At the height of her career in 1983 a reviewer found that \"her abiding lyrical connection with nature and the domestic environment, and pursuit of a unique, individual perception, place her firmly within a strong American tradition, although she remains spiritually separate from any trend or movement.\" A few years later she was recognized for an \"original, daring approach\" that was \"firmly in the tradition of great American still life painting.\" \n\nPiper's \"Fruit and Flowers of 1974 shows her handling of objects in an abstract style.\n\nIn 1986 a curator who had organized a retrospective exhibition of her work wrote that \"she retains a sense of wonder while developing ever new complex harmonies of form and color\" and a reviewer, calling Piper one of Philadelphia's best artists, said her paintings \"with her preference for yellow, orange and red tints and clear blues and greens, give an original picture of her domestic environment and nature's bounty and profuse growth.\" This critic continued: \"Clearly, this gifted artist has had success creating a living and working environment that has a direct relationship to her creative life as an artist.\" In 2010, nineteen years after her death, Piper was called \"one of Philadelphia's finest painters\" and three years later she was called \"one of Philadelphia's most prominent modernist painters.\"\n\nIn addition to the pervasive influence of her mentor Carles, Piper's early paintings were said to show the influence of Matisse and Cézanne. The influence of Carles and Matisse persisted as well in her late and final work. Color appears as the organizing principle in most of her paintings from the first to the last. Although constant reworking made it difficult to discern, her paintings were infrequently purely abstract. In fact she was primarily a still life painter and almost always used objects in her studio as a starting point for each work. Late in her career, a critic noted that her paintings were neither \"abstract\" nor \"figurative,\" but something in between. She herself said, \"I was never conscious of painting representationally or not painting representationally. I was always involved in spacial forms, which naturally lead you somewhat into abstraction. You have to handle your responses to what you're seeing. I was putting down what I saw and how I felt about what I found as connecting links.\"\n\nIn her work Piper wished to express her emotions rather than give a pictorial narrative. At the height of her career she responded to the poems of Wallace Stevens valuing the way in which they expressed emotions \"in a moment's clarity of thought.\"\n\nIn addition to rich colors, her mature work was noted for her use of white pigment, which she used as negative space in order to better define her subjects. She was said, like Matisse, to be \"interested in spatial organization and in creating space through color,\" and a critic appreciated her late paintings for the \"space structured by color, using still-life motifs\" that they conveyed. Early in her career most of Piper's paintings were made in oil on canvas. Later, she mainly used acrylic colors which she liked because of the quality of the whites. The shorter drying time was also important to her as she repainted continually as her paintings evolved.\n\nA private person who worked in solitude, she worked intensely, believing, as Carles had maintained, that in painting \"you put everything in your life into it.\" Speaking of students she had taught, she said it took more than just talent to sustain a professional career: \"You must be able to tolerate yourself for long periods of time, working in the isolation of a studio.\" She was unusually disciplined and rarely took time off. Despite family responsibilities (raising two daughters and moving the family about as her husband's career evolved), she once said a six-month hiatus was the longest time she had spent out of the studio. \"Observers should feel that the act of painting was effortless – that it happened, it just happened,\" she said in a 1977 magazine interview. \"Which of course,\" she added, \"is not true.\" A few years later she said, \"Painting is a pleasure, even though painful. It will always be a pleasure for me, because it is the thing I want to do the most.\"\n\nPiper's paintings are held in the permanent collections of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, Brooklyn Museum, Carnegie Museum of Art, National Academy of Design, Phillips Collection, Provincetown Art Museum, Mount Holyoke College Art Museum, and Woodmere Art Museum.\n\nShe taught painting and drawing at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in the mid-1950s. From 1956 to 1985 she taught at the Philadelphia College of Art. She also taught at the Pennsylvania Academy and the New York Studio School. Of her teaching method she said, \"In teaching I relate to the students one to one. I try to wait until they've done something, and then I talk to them about what they've done. I think they get much more from the setups or from looking at other paintings than they do from a lecture.\"\n\nPiper was born in Philadelphia on August 21, 1916. Her father was Edmund B. Piper and her mother Elizabeth Gibson Piper. They were married in 1906 and settled in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. Her grandparents on her father's side were members of an old and prominent family of Watsontown and neighboring Williamsport. On her mother's side her grandparents were prosperous Williamsport merchants. Edmund B. Piper was a well-known obstetrician and gynecologist who gained recognition for a forceps he designed (and which bears his name). Elizabeth Gibson Piper led an active social life, her name appearing frequently in the society columns of the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\". Piper had two older sisters, Helen E. and Eleanor L. Piper. In 1925, Piper's mother and the three girls, aged eighteen, fifteen, and nine, spent the winter in France and it was there, at a pension in Cannes, that Piper decided she would become an artist. During the winter of 1933–34, following the elaborate activities required for the introduction to society of Helen and Eleanor as well as Helen's marriage to Henry B. Coxe, Piper's mother again took the three daughters to France. In the meantime, the three had been names as principal beneficiaries in the will of a wealthy maiden aunt, Elizabeth L. Piper, each to receive $30,000 on their eighteenth birthdays, and Piper had become a boarding student at Westover School in Middlebury, Connecticut. In February 1935 Piper's father died at the age of fifty-four, in May she graduated from Westover, and in November she was honored as a débutante when a Bachrach portrait appeared in the society pages of the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\". During the remaining years of the 1930s she was an active participant in Philadelphia society, participating in a charity ball, being a bridesmaid in wedding ceremonies, joining the Junior League, and entertaining friends at her mother's summer place in Eagles Mere. Piper was twenty-six when she married a Navy aviation cadet, E. Digby Bartzell, Jr., in the winter of 1943. His family, like hers, was prominent in Philadelphia society and, like her, he had attended prestigious private boarding school. Subsequently he had obtained Ivy League undergraduate and graduate degrees and, following service as a military intelligence officer in the South Pacific, had become a highly-respected professor of sociology.\n\nPiper kept her maiden name for professional uses and her married name for other uses. She and Baltzell had two daughters, Eve, born in 1944, and Jan, born in 1948. Following his discharge from the Navy in 1945, the young family moved from place to place as Baltzell's career evolved. In 1963 Piper and Baltzell began spending summers in Wellfleet on Cape Cod and two years later, having bought a house there, Piper built a studio on the property.\n\nPiper died on August 8, 1991, less than two weeks before her 75th birthday, and was buried in Philadelphia's Woodlands Cemetery. Baltzell died in Boston at age 80 on August 17, 1996.\n\nJane Piper, Richard J Boyle, Bill Scott, and Hollis Taggart Galleries, \"Jane Piper : poetic distillations [exhibition], 9 May to 15 July 2005 (New York, N.Y. : Hollis Taggart Galleries, 2005)\n\nWilliam P. Scott, \"Continuity and Change: Conversations with Jane Piper,\" \"American Artist\" (v. 42, no. 436, November 1978, pp. 76–80, 122–124)\n"}
{"id": "35306859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35306859", "title": "Joanna De Souza", "text": "Joanna De Souza\n\nJoanna De Souza (born October 22, 1955) is a Kathak choreographer, dancer and teacher. She is the only Canadian born artist to achieve a master's degree in kathak dance through the Prayag Sangit Samiti, Allahabad, India.\n\nJoanna De Souza was born and raised in Whitby, Ontario. She started studying piano at the age of five, and as a teenager, was a member of an award winning classical vocal group for nine voices, under the directorship of Marian Williams. She studied figure skating throughout her childhood, but had no background in dance.\n\nAfter studying Forestry for one year at Lakehead University in Thunder Bay, she moved to British Columbia, and then traveled to California in 1978, where she began studying Kathak under her first and current teacher, Pandit Chitresh Das. De Souza received her Bachelor’s and master's degrees in kathak through the Prayag Sangeet Samiti, standing first in all of India.\n\nDe Souza married tabla player, Ritesh Das in 1981. In 1988, they moved to Toronto and together, established M-DO/Kathak Toronto and the Toronto Tabla Ensemble. Since then, De Souza has been teaching Kathak to students in Toronto. She has performed all over Canada and India and has been the recipient of numerous grants and awards. She is now married to bassist and composer, Ian De Souza.\n"}
{"id": "21838279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21838279", "title": "John Murray (Australian writer)", "text": "John Murray (Australian writer)\n\nJohn Murray (born 1963) is an Australian epidemiologist, and writer.\n\nMurray was born in 1963 in Adelaide, Australia. In 1985, Murray received his medical degree. He received a master's of public health from Johns Hopkins University. He went on to the Centers for Disease Control's Epidemic Intelligence Service. He investigated the outbreak of diseases such as cholera and dysentery.\n\nIn fall 1999, he moved with his wife and daughter, to Iowa, where he graduated from the Iowa Writers' Workshop.\n\nIn 2003, he published a collection of short stories.\n\nHe moved back to Australia, but later returned to Iowa with his wife, daughter, and pony.\n\nMurray is currently working on several short stories, including \"resting heart rate of 40\", \"The benefits of diarrhea\", and \noats\". \n\nThis remarkable collection of short stories is written by a medical doctor-turned-author. Murray offers dazzling insight into the minds and hearts of men and women whom we may have thought too cerebral to have \"real\" lives—dedicated physicians and scientists—all living private lives of great complexity.\n\nThe stories are accomplished and seasoned, remarkably so given that this is the author’s first book. Murray is adept at holding together a complex narrative and creating characters who reach out emotionally to the reader upon first meeting.\n\nThe people in John Murray's striking new collection of stories are control freaks: whether they are obsessive collectors of butterflies, dedicated trauma surgeons working in dangerous war zones or carpenters making sure that the joins and angles of a house are solid, these characters all see their vocations as a means of containing the chaos and uncertainty around them. They are believers in rules and devotees of order, people scared of the random dangers of the world and even more frightened of their own turbulent emotions.\n\nThe finest short stories arrived not only in major editions such as \"The Early Stories: 1953-1975\" by John Updike but also in Nadine Gordimer's \"Loot\"; \"A Few Short Notes on Tropical Butterflies,\" by John Murray, and \"Indelible Acts,\" by A. L. Kennedy, also proved that the art of compression thrives even in a literary climate of bluster and bloat\n\n"}
{"id": "58471587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58471587", "title": "Lara Alcock", "text": "Lara Alcock\n\nLara Alcock is a British mathematics educator. She is a reader in mathematics education at Loughborough University, head of the Mathematics Education Centre at Loughborough, and the author of several books on mathematics.\nAlcock won the Selden Prize for her research in mathematics education, and is a National Teaching Fellow.\n\nAlcock earned bachelor's and master's degrees in mathematics at the University of Warwick, and in 2001 completed a PhD in mathematics education at Warwick. Her dissertation, \"Categories, definitions and mathematics: Student reasoning about objects in analysis\", was supervised by Adrian Simpson. After working as an assistant professor at Rutgers University in New Jersey, she returned to the UK as a teaching fellow at Essex University. She moved to Loughborough in 2007.\n\nAlcock is the 2012 winner of the Annie and John Selden Prize for Research in Undergraduate Mathematics Education, given by the Mathematical Association of America.\nShe was named a National Teaching Fellow by the Higher Education Academy in 2015.\n\nAlcock is the author of:\n\n"}
{"id": "57442945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57442945", "title": "Maha Laziri", "text": "Maha Laziri\n\nMaha Laziri (born 1991) is a Moroccan education activist,\n"}
{"id": "4521840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4521840", "title": "Maud Nathan", "text": "Maud Nathan\n\nMaud Nathan (October 20, 1862 – December 15, 1946) was an American social worker, labor activist and suffragist for women's right to vote.\n\nShe was born on October 20, 1862 to a New York City Sephardic Jewish family. Her mother was Annie Augusta and her father was Robert Weeks Nathan. She came from a prominent New York City family, descended from Gershom Mendes Seixas, minister of New York's Congregation Sherith Israel during the American Revolutionary War. Nathan was a member of the Daughters of the American Revolution.\n\nHer sister was the author and education activist Annie Nathan Meyer, the founder of Barnard College. Her cousins are the poet Emma Lazarus and Supreme Court Justice Benjamin Cardozo. Her nephew was the author and poet Robert Nathan. She and her family moved to Green Bay, Wisconsin, for four years. Maud finished her high school education there. The family moved back to New York City after the death of Maud's mother in 1878.\n\nOn April 7, 1880, seventeen-year-old Maud Nathan married her first cousin Frederick Nathan.\n\nAs a young married woman, Nathan became involved in charity work. She was named director at both the Mount Sinai Hospital and the Hebrew Free School. Along with Josephine Shaw Lowell, Nathan was a founding member of the New York Consumer's League. The group supported an eight-hour workday for women and children and supported the Working Women's Society in publicizing shops which treated workers fairly.\n\nThe death of her daughter, Annette Florance Nathan, at the age of 8 in 1895 brought out a change in Nathan. Josephine Shaw Lowell, founder of the New York Consumers League suggested that Nathan work up an interest in the issues of working women in New York City, as a way to get over the loss of her child. This was the initial start of Nathan's career in helping women.\n\nIn 1897, Nathan became president of the New York Consumer's League. When the National Consumer's League was created in 1898, Nathan become a member of its Executive Committee. In 1901, the Consumer League of Rhode Island was organized after Maud Nathan gave a speech in the state.\n\nLobbying Albany on consumer issues made Nathan realize how little legislators cared about the opinions of vote-less women and so Nathan became more involved in suffrage activities. In 1908, Nathan published a pamphlet entitled \"The Wage Earner and the Ballot\" which pointed out that in suffrage states the age of consent was higher, the illiteracy rate was lower, women were paid more for civil service jobs, and there were stronger child labor laws.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56097476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56097476", "title": "Meri Toppelius", "text": "Meri Toppelius\n\nMeri Toppelius (9 July 1863 – 1896) was a Finnish-born American educational theorist who was the first to introduce the sloyd system in the United States.\n\nJenny Maria (\"Meri\") Toppelius was born in Hamina, Finland, a daughter of General Gustaf Viktor Toppelius (1825–1906), of the Finnish army, and Jenny Hedvig Carolina Toppelius. She was also a niece of Zachris Topelius, the poet laureate of Finland.\n\nToppelius was educated and lived as the eldest daughter of a family of rank, but she sought in vain for the satisfaction which social distinction was expected to give. At seventeen, she decided to devote her life to children. The rounded culture of manual and mental accomplishment, which is characteristic of the North-European education, was available to her, and at Vera Hjelt's training school, in Helsinki, she found slöjd. After taking a course under Hjelt, a progressive educator, Toppelius remained in the school as instructor.\n\nToppelius gained five years' experience as a teacher of slojd under Hjelt. During this time, Mrs. Hemingway, an educational leader of Boston, became interested in the sloyd system and its results in the north of Europe. Hemingway made a request of Toppelius to come to Boston and introduce to the United States the ideal of hand education. Toppelius accepted Hemingway's request, and planned to come and present the sloyd system but she became ill a short time prior to her expected departure. Toppelius requested a younger sister, Sigrid, whom she had already interested in sloyd work to a sufficient extent to be well trained for an instructor, to take her commission and go in her place to Boston. Her parents, though reluctant to allow their eldest daughter the independence of traveling on such a mission in a foreign land, refused to allow their younger daughter to be alone for such an assignment. \n\nToppelius accompanied Sigrid to Boston in 1890, and herself took up a course of instruction in the gymnasium, while her sister carried on the sloyd in a primary school according to Hemingway's plans. In the spring of 1891, the Chicago Woman's Club asked Toppelius to come to Chicago, which she did, leaving Sigrid to conduct the work in Boston. Toppelius conducted private sloyd classes in Chicago, arranged by those interested in the movement, and spoke of it whenever opportunity afforded her to do so. In the summer of that year, she went to Bay View, Michigan, to become one of the summer Chautauqua faculty, where she had a class for teachers, and also an observation class where children could be seen at work.\n\nShe addressed the National Education Association in convention at St. Paul, Minnesota and the Kansas State Teachers' Association at Topeka, while it was yet difficult for her to express herself readily and satisfactorily in English. While in St. Paul, and after teaching several months in Chicago, Toppelius received so many calls for teachers in sloid, she determined to open a training institute at the corner of Fifth avenue and Madison street, Chicago. In 1892, Sigrid returned to Finland. In 1893, at the time of the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, Toppelius was appointed, by request of Ebba Nordquist, née Baronesse Alfthan, of Finland, to address the Auxiliary Congress concerning the work of the Finnish women. \n\nA wedge was entered in the public school system by allowing Toppelius a sloyd department in Chicago's Agassiz school. A room was fitted out under her direction in the basement, and the boys of each grade sent down to her a few hours each week. With perseverance and enthusiasm, she introduced to the public school system of Chicago the culture of hand and eye education. With added effort and cheerfulness she took up a mission work of sloyd among the boys of a needy community on the farther side of the city. In time, the agitation of the school board over “fads and their uses” came up. Toppelius was categoried as a faddist. But her strong personal force, her enthusiasm and courage, her work and its stronghold on her friends, her associates, and her pupils, worked in her favor. Solely through her enthusiasm, and inspired by her earnestness, one of the school board made an effort to assist Tooppelius, and obtained an appropriation of to carry on and propagate the sloyd work which she pioneered. \n\nThough earnest and energetic in the promulgation of her theory, Toppelius was never pushing, never obtrusive; she was quiet, retiring, and self-effacive. She came from the Old World with an Old World system and trained in an Old World school, but she was progressive, and quick to grasp and make use of the best suggestions developed under any method and in any experience. She had not been accustomed in Finland to accord first place to kindergarten in her theory of education, but she readily recognized the place it filled in the tense and emotional life of the US, and saw that the kindergarten was her strongest ally and the area upon which to develop her symmetrical education. She believed thoroughly in the advantage of the educational theory of her own country, that the method of instruction gave best results with the young child, a receptive and responsive condition which becomes less plastic by growth. \n\nThe sloyd of Sweden and Denmark was arranged for the boys of upper grades, allowing for physical ability to handle tools and a mental power sufficiently developed to grasp the purpose and aim of the work. The sloyd of Finland adapted itself to the needs of the growing child, regardless of sex; the requirement of development was the same, and lent itself to the moulding of the abilities and powers to the development of capacity, physical and mental, for its best appreciation and use. Toppelius' whole theory of instruction was the system for the child, not the child for the method. It was her regret that only the boys of the Agassiz school were assigned to her department. To her, the needs of childhood were universal, not of a class or sex. She grafted her already simplified system upon the kindergarten, and worked out and adapted her model series by careful experiment for the best result to her pupils. The work which they accomplished, the exercise which they gained, the dexterity which they acquired was in unity of concept. Toppelius defined the aim of her work as universally useful, idealizing the practical, and giving harmonious education, and systematically developing the usefulness of the child. \n\nShe said in an address before a body of teachers:— \nAlong with Anna Murray of Stockholm, who was principal of the Chicago Sloyd school, Toppelius resided with a private family in Lake View, Chicago. Toppelius was never free from bodily pain. She died in Chicago on January 27, 1896, and was buried at All Souls Unitarian Church in Chicago.\n\n"}
{"id": "35668092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35668092", "title": "Minux Institute of Technology", "text": "Minux Institute of Technology\n\nMinux Institute of Technology is a Nepalese information technology training center located in Pokhara, Nepal. Established in 2009, the organization offers courses in computer technology, as well as IT products, web design and site hosting, and technical networking and computer maintenance support services. Classes offered include:\n\n"}
{"id": "5559793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5559793", "title": "Montessori-Based Dementia Programming", "text": "Montessori-Based Dementia Programming\n\nMontessori-Based Dementia Programming (MBDP) is a method of working with\nolder adults living with cognitive and/or physical impairments based on the ideas of the educator Maria Montessori. It has been shown to increase levels of engagement and participation in activities of persons with dementia. While it can not cure or prevent Alzheimer's disease, it has been shown to generally improve many aspects of the quality of life of those who have it.\n\nMontessori-Based Dementia Programming uses rehabilitation principles including guided repetition, task breakdown, and progressing from simple to complex. Additionally, principles of dementia interventions such as external cue usage and reliance on implicit memory are used. Examples of activities include reading groups and memory games.\n\nThis method of helping persons with dementia and other memory impairments has been shown to be effective in a number of different contexts, including long-term care, assisted living, independent living and home-based care. It is also used in intergenerational programming where older adults with memory impairments and young children participate together in Montessori-based activities.\n\nMontessori-based Dementia Programming is primarily used by recreational therapists and activities professionals. However, Dr. Cameron Camp stresses that any staff member of a nursing facility (nurses, social workers, dietary staff) should be trained in and implement Montessori-based Dementia Programming with their residents.\n\nMBDP has been researched for over ten years by Dr. Cameron Camp (the creator of MBDP) and the staff of the Myers Research Institute.\n\nMBDP received the Excellence in Research and Education Award from the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging (AAHSA). The creators of MBDP also received the 2004 Healthcare and Aging Award given by the American Society on Aging (ASA).\n\nThe science behind this work has been best described in scientific articles and trade journals, ranging from \"The Gerontologist\" to \"Activity Director's Quarterly\" and from \"Caring\" (the magazine of the National Association for Home Care) to \"Topics in Geriatric Rehab\". It has also been featured in a story in the AARP Bulletin.\n\nOn 11-28-07 the Cleveland Plain Dealer ran a story about MBDP on the front page of the Metro section. This story highlights the use of the technique in a long-term care facility.\n\n"}
{"id": "9399111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9399111", "title": "Netflix Prize", "text": "Netflix Prize\n\nThe Netflix Prize was an open competition for the best collaborative filtering algorithm to predict user ratings for films, based on previous ratings without any other information about the users or films, i.e. without the users or the films being identified except by numbers assigned for the contest.\n\nThe competition was held by Netflix, an online DVD-rental and video streaming service, and was open to anyone who is neither connected with Netflix (current and former employees, agents, close relatives of Netflix employees, etc.) nor a resident of certain blocked countries (such as Cuba or North Korea). On September 21, 2009, the grand prize of was given to the BellKor's Pragmatic Chaos team which bested Netflix's own algorithm for predicting ratings by 10.06%.\n\nNetflix provided a \"training\" data set of 100,480,507 ratings that 480,189 users gave to 17,770 movies. Each training rating is a quadruplet of the form codice_1. The user and movie fields are integer IDs, while grades are from 1 to 5 (integral) stars.\n\nThe \"qualifying\" data set contains over 2,817,131 triplets of the form codice_2, with grades known only to the jury. A participating team's algorithm must predict grades on the entire qualifying set, but they are only informed of the score for half of the data, the \"quiz\" set of 1,408,342 ratings. The other half is the \"test\" set of 1,408,789, and performance on this is used by the jury to determine potential prize winners. Only the judges know which ratings are in the quiz set, and which are in the test set—this arrangement is intended to make it difficult to hill climb on the test set. Submitted predictions are scored against the true grades in terms of root mean squared error (RMSE), and the goal is to reduce this error as much as possible. Note that while the actual grades are integers in the range 1 to 5, submitted predictions need not be. Netflix also identified a \"probe\" subset of 1,408,395 ratings within the \"training\" data set. The \"probe\", \"quiz\", and \"test\" data sets were chosen to have similar statistical properties.\n\nIn summary, the data used in the Netflix Prize looks as follows:\n\nFor each movie, title and year of release are provided in a separate dataset. No information at all is provided about users. In order to protect the privacy of customers, \"some of the rating data for some customers in the training and qualifying sets have been deliberately perturbed in one or more of the following ways: deleting ratings; inserting alternative ratings and dates; and modifying rating dates\".\n\nThe training set is such that the average user rated over 200 movies, and the average movie was rated by over 5000 users. But there is wide variance in the data—some movies in the training set have as few as 3 ratings, while one user rated over 17,000 movies.\n\nThere was some controversy as to the choice of RMSE as the defining metric. Would a reduction of the RMSE by 10% really benefit the users? It has been claimed that even as small an improvement as 1% RMSE results in a significant difference in the ranking of the \"top-10\" most recommended movies for a user.\n\nPrizes were based on improvement over Netflix's own algorithm, called \"Cinematch\", or the previous year's score if a team has made improvement beyond a certain threshold. A trivial algorithm that predicts for each movie in the quiz set its average grade from the training data produces an RMSE of 1.0540. Cinematch uses \"straightforward statistical linear models with a lot of data conditioning\".\n\nUsing only the training data, Cinematch scores an RMSE of 0.9514 on the quiz data, roughly a 10% improvement over the trivial algorithm. Cinematch has a similar performance on the test set, 0.9525. In order to win the grand prize of $1,000,000, a participating team had to improve this by another 10%, to achieve 0.8572 on the test set. Such an improvement on the quiz set corresponds to an RMSE of 0.8563.\n\nAs long as no team won the grand prize, a \"progress\" prize of $50,000 was awarded every year for the best result thus far. However, in order to win this prize, an algorithm had to improve the RMSE on the quiz set by at least 1% over the previous progress prize winner (or over Cinematch, the first year). If no submission succeeded, the progress prize was not to be awarded for that year.\n\nTo win a progress or grand prize a participant had to provide source code and a description of the algorithm to the jury within one week after being contacted by them. Following verification the winner also had to provide a non-exclusive license to Netflix. Netflix would publish only the description, not the source code, of the system. (To keep their algorithm and source code secret, a team could choose not to claim a prize.) The jury also kept their predictions secret from other participants. A team could send as many attempts to predict grades as they wish. Originally submissions were limited to once a week, but the interval was quickly modified to once a day. A team's best submission so far counted as their current submission.\n\nOnce one of the teams succeeded to improve the RMSE by 10% or more, the jury would issue a \"last call\", giving all teams 30 days to send their submissions. Only then, the team with best submission was asked for the algorithm description, source code, and non-exclusive license, and, after successful verification; declared a grand prize winner.\n\nThe contest would last until the grand prize winner was declared. Had no one received the grand prize, it would have lasted for at least five years (until October 2, 2011). After that date, the contest could have been terminated at any time at Netflix's sole discretion.\n\nThe competition began on October 2, 2006. By October 8, a team called WXYZConsulting had already beaten Cinematch's results.\n\nBy October 15, there were three teams who had beaten Cinematch, one of them by 1.06%, enough to qualify for the annual progress prize. By June 2007 over 20,000 teams had registered for the competition from over 150 countries. 2,000 teams had submitted over 13,000 prediction sets.\n\nOver the first year of the competition, a handful of front-runners traded first place. The more prominent ones were:\n\n\nOn August 12, 2007, many contestants gathered at the KDD Cup and Workshop 2007, held at San Jose, California. During the workshop all four of the top teams on the leaderboard at that time presented their techniques. The team from IBM Research — Yan Liu, Saharon Rosset, Claudia Perlich, and Zhenzhen Kou — won the third place in Task 1 and first place in Task 2.\n\nOver the second year of the competition, only three teams reached the leading position:\n\n\nOn September 2, 2007, the competition entered the \"last call\" period for the 2007 Progress Prize. Over 40,000 teams from 186 different countries had entered the contest. They had thirty days to tender submissions for consideration. At the beginning of this period the leading team was BellKor, with an RMSE of 0.8728 (8.26% improvement). followed by Dinosaur Planet (RMSE = 0.8769; 7.83% improvement), and Gravity (RMSE = 0.8785; 7.66% improvement). In the last hour of the last call period, an entry by \"KorBell\" took first place. This turned out to be an alternate name for Team BellKor.\n\nOn November 13, 2007, team KorBell (formerly BellKor) was declared the winner of the $50,000 Progress Prize with an RMSE of 0.8712 (8.43% improvement). The team consisted of three researchers from AT&T Labs, Yehuda Koren, Robert Bell, and Chris Volinsky. As required, they published a description of their algorithm.\n\nThe 2008 Progress Prize was awarded to the team BellKor. Their submission combined with a different team, BigChaos achieved an RMSE of 0.8616 with 207 predictor sets.\nThe joint-team consisted of two researchers from commendo research & consulting GmbH, Andreas Töscher and Michael Jahrer (originally team BigChaos) and three researchers from AT&T Labs, Yehuda Koren, Robert Bell, and Chris Volinsky (originally team BellKor). As required, they published a description of their algorithm.\n\nThis was the final Progress Prize because obtaining the required 1% improvement over the 2008 Progress Prize would be sufficient to qualify for the Grand Prize. The prize money was donated to the charities chosen by the winners\n\nOn June 26, 2009 the team \"BellKor's Pragmatic Chaos\", a merger of teams \"Bellkor in BigChaos\" and \"Pragmatic Theory\", achieved a 10.05% improvement over Cinematch (a Quiz RMSE of 0.8558). The Netflix Prize competition then entered the \"last call\" period for the Grand Prize. In accord with the Rules, teams had thirty (30) days, until July 26, 2009 18:42:37 UTC, to make submissions that will be considered for this Prize.\n\nOn July 25, 2009 the team \"The Ensemble\", a merger of the teams \"Grand Prize Team\" and \"Opera Solutions and Vandelay United\", achieved a 10.09% improvement over Cinematch (a Quiz RMSE of 0.8554).\n\nOn July 26, 2009, Netflix stopped gathering submissions for the Netflix Prize contest.\n\nThe final standing of the Leaderboard at that time showed that two teams met the minimum requirements for the Grand Prize. \"The Ensemble\" with a 10.10% improvement over Cinematch on the Qualifying set (a Quiz RMSE of 0.8553), and \"BellKor's Pragmatic Chaos\" with a 10.09% improvement over Cinematch on the Qualifying set (a Quiz RMSE of 0.8554). The Grand Prize winner was to be the one with the better performance on the Test set.\n\nOn September 18, 2009, Netflix announced team \"BellKor's Pragmatic Chaos\" as the prize winner (a Test RMSE of 0.8567), and the prize was awarded to the team in a ceremony on September 21, 2009. \"The Ensemble\" team had matched BellKor's result, but since BellKor submitted their results 20 minutes earlier, the rules award the prize to BellKor.\n\nThe joint-team \"BellKor's Pragmatic Chaos\" consisted of two Austrian researchers from Commendo Research & Consulting GmbH, Andreas Töscher and Michael Jahrer (originally team BigChaos), two researchers from AT&T Labs, Robert Bell, and Chris Volinsky, Yehuda Koren from Yahoo! (originally team BellKor) and two researchers from Pragmatic Theory, Martin Piotte and Martin Chabbert. As required, they published a description of their algorithm.\n\nThe team reported to have achieved the \"dubious honors\" (\"sic\" Netflix) of the worst RMSEs on the \"Quiz\" and \"Test\" data sets from among the 44,014 submissions made by 5,169 teams was \"Lanterne Rouge\", led by J.M. Linacre, who was also a member of \"The Ensemble\" team.\n\nOn March 12, 2010, Netflix announced that it would not pursue a second Prize competition that it had announced the previous August. The decision was in response to a lawsuit and Federal Trade Commission privacy concerns.\n\nAlthough the data sets were constructed to preserve customer privacy, the Prize has been criticized by privacy advocates. In 2007 two researchers from The University of Texas at Austin were able to identify individual users by matching the data sets with film ratings on the Internet Movie Database.\n\nOn December 17, 2009, four Netflix users filed a class action lawsuit against Netflix, alleging that Netflix had violated U.S. fair trade laws and the Video Privacy Protection Act by releasing the datasets. There was public debate about privacy for research participants. On March 19, 2010, Netflix reached a settlement with the plaintiffs, after which they voluntarily dismissed the lawsuit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28634102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28634102", "title": "PerfectGoal", "text": "PerfectGoal\n\nPerfectGoal is a football manager browser game developed by \"Art-e-Fakten\" from Hannover, in cooperation with the former professional football player and world champion Gerd Müller. Therefore, the game is also known as \"Gerd Müller's PerfectGoal\". The official start of the game was on 01.10.2009.\n\nWhen registering, each player has to choose the time zone in which he wants to play, due to the fact that the matches are being held at fixed times of the day. The matches can be disputed at 07:30, 10:15, 13:00, 15:45, 18:30 and 21:15. Each match runs in real time and includes 15 minutes half time.\n\nA new user receives a basic stadium and a squad of 15 players, including assistant coach. The new team is still very young and little trained. During the game, the strength of the squad grows every day through training, player purchase and youth coaching.\nThe game starts on a preliminaries server, on which the three time slots starting from 15:45 are each occupied by a match. It is important to discover the best talents, lineups and match strategies. The game can be influenced by changing tactics and deployment during a match, by moves such as pressing or counter-attack and by audience activities.\n\nWhen after a few days the new user is ready to compete in league matches, he can promote to a league server. These league servers are also available in different time zones. Promotion to a league server takes place on Monday and a new season begins on Tuesday. The different servers run with one week offset.\n\nA season lasts 34 match days and the subsequent free Monday.\nThere are 63 leagues on a league server, each with 18 teams, which gives a total of 1,134 teams. The leagues are arranged in the form of a pyramid.\nThe professionals: one 1st league, two 2nd leagues, and four 3rd leagues.\nThe amateurs: eight 4th leagues, sixteen 5th leagues and thirty-two 6th leagues.\n\nLeague matches start every day at 6:30 PM. The results and the classification are given according to the generally applicable football rules.\n\nIn addition, in each season there is at least one cup tournament (PerfectCup). At 09:15 PM the teams play against each other in a knockout system, and the top three of each server will receive a trophy for the team mantle.\n\nParallel to organizing the matches, the user can develop his stadium with grandstands, standing places, seats, boxes and VIP boxes and expand elements with a total of about 200 stages of development, such as floodlighting, display panels, coach benches, but also hotels, fan shops, or a youth training facility. The development level and the admission prices, along with factors such as weather, league and opponents, affect the number of spectators and hence the income of the club.\n\nThe game is graphically complex designed. Many images, such as the manager's office, the club grounds and all the adjoining buildings are detailed 3D graphics. The line-up for a match can be set by Drag&Drop from the player's bench, but it can also be set automatically on demand.\nThe only Flash element in the game is the wheel of fortune. Everyday users get a chip to spin the wheel for free. There are 80 different types of winnings including \"Jetons\" (the game currency), but also items and licenses.\n\nTo watch his matches, the user can open the \"Live Ticker\" where the most recent events of the match are updated every minute. Here the user can start game moves or spectator's activities to support the team.\n\nThe entire game including Wiki and support is currently available in German, English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Russian, Polish, Bulgarian and Turkish.\nUntil now more than 110.000 users from all over the world have registered with PerfectGoal. The largest share of currently ~ 40,000 active users is from Germany and Poland.\nThe game includes a shoutbox to chat and a messaging system.\n\nThe game is financed through the sale of items that increase the comfort of the game or provide additional functions. In the Item Shop, the user can choose between motivational gifts, drums for the audience, chips for the wheel of fortune or manager licenses. These licenses contain numerous other items and additional functions, e.g. estimating the training strength of opponents, plan ahead or recognize the value of a player's talent in the transfer market.\nThe only fee restricted function in the game is the professional certification for the top three leagues. It costs 1.50 € per month, but can be also won at the wheel of fortune.\nWith the acquisition of so-called \"Times\" the user can also shorten many time-consuming processes, so that constructions can be completed more quickly, injuries can be cured faster, the sojourn in the training camp can be reduced.\nThe game is free of pop-ups and banner ads.\n\nThe game is free of violence or harmful content and is therefore suitable for all age groups. On one hand it addresses to the football fans and connoisseurs, but also to users who prefer to build and administrate and to whom the club management is more important than sportive success.\n\nIn December 2009 PerfectGoal was designated a triple winner by the browsergames.de portal for: best graphics, best entertainment and best game in the sports category.\n\nPerfectGoal is currently being radically revised in all areas and by the end of 2010 a new version is due to appear with additional features, which will include, among others, a more comfortable chat module and a Hall of Fame.\nSince May 2010, PerfectGoal is also included in the portfolio of the publisher and browser game portal Playnik.\n\n"}
{"id": "18793404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18793404", "title": "Plebs' League", "text": "Plebs' League\n\nThe Plebs' League was a British educational and political organisation which originated around a Marxist way of thinking in 1908 and was active until 1926.\n\nCentral to the formation of the League was Noah Ablett, a miner from the Rhondda who was at the core of a group at Ruskin College, Oxford who challenged the lecturers' opposition to Marxism. In the 1907–8 academic year, Ablett began leading unofficial classes in Marxist political economy which were attended by Ebby Edwards, among others. Ablett returned to South Wales in 1908, where he began promoting Marxist education through local branches of the Independent Labour Party.\n\nA mixture of students and former students at Ruskin founded the Plebs' League in November 1908, also launching the \"Plebs' Magazine\". In the first issue of the \"Plebs\", dated February 1909, Ablett contributed an article on the need for independent working class education. The League ran classes teaching Marxist principles and later syndicalist ideas.\n\nDuring 1909, student agitation for Marxism continued at Ruskin. The students were supported by the Principal, Dennis Hird, and when he was dismissed the students went on strike, refusing to attend classes. The rebels formed the Central Labour College, which worked closely with the Plebs' League.\n\nBy 1910, the Plebs' League was active in South Wales, Lancashire and Scotland. Activists included A. J. Cook, William Mainwaring, Mark Starr and John Maclean.\n\nThe League had sympathies with De Leonism, primarily represented in Britain by the Socialist Labour Party. It later had a relationship with the Communist Party of Great Britain.\n\nThe League was absorbed by the National Council of Labour Colleges the year after the 1926 United Kingdom general strike, although the \"Plebs' Magazine\" continued to appear for many years.\n\n"}
{"id": "43027104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43027104", "title": "Popexpert", "text": "Popexpert\n\nPopexpert is an online learning platform that allows users to connect face-to-face with experts in a variety of subject areas. The experience all takes place on the Popexpert site, allowing users to book, pay, and video chat all from their accounts. Not unlike CreativeLive, Skillshare.com, and Lynda.com, Popexpert’s “Life, Work, and Play” categories are geared towards emotional intelligence and personal development. Popexpert is currently based at 1020 Kearny Street in San Francisco, California.\n\nPopexpert connects experts with users through curated courses and one on one sessions.\n\nIn 2014, Popexpert began offering video classes by its cache of experts, jumpstarted by Carrie Hammer's \"Role Models not Runway Models\" master course and Shauna Shapiro and Pediatrician Chris White's \"Mindful Discipline\" workshop.\n\nExperts in Meditation, Nutrition, Personal Style, Career Development, and many other disciplines can be found in Popexpert's Live, Work, and Play categories. Sessions with experts typically last fifty minutes and offer a personalized experience. They use a video platform that allows users to type and save notes for future study.\nNotable experts include Ashton Kutcher, Latham Thomas, and Mikaela Reuben among other celebrities and academics.\n\nPopexpert was founded in 2012 by \"Entrepreneur to watch\" Ingrid Sanders after a life changing sabbatical inspired her to try and change the world through education. She was soon joined by Paypal co-founder Ken Howery and former colleague Jeremy Thomas, who came on as CTO. After a year, the Popexpert team had developed relationships with over 2,000 of the best experts in EQ topics.\nThey raised a $50k seed round November 28, 2012 followed immediately by another $450k December 14, 2012. By May 21, 2013 Popexpert secured both $1.7M and $2M in funding for an overall total of $4.20M.\nA sample of Popexpert's investors include Learn Capital, BoxGroup, Expansion Venture Capital, Ken Howery, Michael Chasen, Jonathan Segal, Capricorn Investment Group, David Tisch, Noah and Jonah Goodhart, Miki and Radha Agrawal, Mark Ein, Justin Dangel, Jeremy Hinman, Nivio founder Sachin Duggal, and Mike Walsh.In April 2016, According to The Wall Street Journal, It was reported that PopExpert Filed for Bankruptcy.\n"}
{"id": "9641126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9641126", "title": "Posthegemony", "text": "Posthegemony\n\nPosthegemony or post-hegemony is a period or a situation in which hegemony is no longer said to function as the organizing principle of a national or post-national social order, or of the relationships between and amongst nation states within the global order. The concept has different meanings within the fields of political theory, cultural studies, and international relations.\n\nIn the field of cultural studies, posthegemony has been developed as a concept by a number of critics whose work engages with and critiques the use of cultural hegemony theory within the writings of Ernesto Laclau and within subaltern studies. George Yúdice, in 1995, was one of the first commentators to summarize the background to the emergence of this concept:\n\nFlexible accumulation, consumer culture, and the \"new world information order\" are produced or distributed (made to flow) globally, to occupy the space of the nation, but are no longer \"motivated\" by any essential connections to a state, as embodied, for example, in a \"national-popular\" formation. Their motivations are both infra- and supranational. We might say that, from the purview of the national proscenium, a posthegemonic situation holds. That is, the \"compromise solution\" that culture provided for Gramsci is not now one that pertains to the national level but to the local and transnational. Instead, the \"culture-ideology of consumerism\" serves to naturalize global capitalism everywhere [emphasis added].\n\nThe concept of posthegemony is related to the rise of the \"multitude\" as a social force which, unlike the \"people\", cannot be captured by hegemony, together with the roles of affect and habitus in mechanisms of social control and agency. Posthegemony and its related terms are influenced by Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari, Pierre Bourdieu and Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri’s accounts of the supra- and infra-national forces that are said to have rendered obsolete the national-popular forms of coercion and consent through which, for Antonio Gramsci, hegemony structured and constituted society.\n\nThe features of posthegemony as a concept correspond closely to those of postmodernity. Thus, posthegemony theory argues that ideology is no longer a political driving force in mechanisms of social control and that the modernist theory of hegemony, which depends on ideology, therefore no longer accurately reflects the social order. Some commentators also argue that history is not, as Karl Marx described it, a class struggle, but rather a \"struggle to produce class\".\n\nThe concept of posthegemony also resonates with the work of post-Foucauldian theorists such as Giorgio Agamben. Nicholas Thoburn, drawing on Agamben's discussion on the \"state of exception\", writes that \"it is, perhaps, with the recasting of the relationship between law and politico-military and economic crises and interventions that is instituted in the state of exception that the time of hegemony is most revealed to have passed.\"\n\nIn international relations, \"posthegemony\" refers to the decline of the US unilateral hegemony. This has likely been the result of the difficulties that have arisen out of the unilateral style foreign policy. These difficulties predominantly include disdain from; those directly affected by the, sometimes forceful, hegemonic actions of the US, those who spectated the actions, and even Americans themselves who view the actions of their government as immoral. For example, after the Vietnam War, in 1978, 72 per cent of Americans thought the war was not a mistake but fundamentally wrong and immoral. This exemplifies the hegemonic decline: how could the US maintain the legitimacy of their interventions if their own citizens find them wrong and immoral?\n\nThe dominant power(s) of the world is/are fluid, the initial period of US unilateralism can be loosely pinpointed to their interventions during the world wars. Following this period of rising US dominance on the world stage,\n\nThe predictions of these individuals represent the fluidity of power over time, through the idea that, during the period where the US was unequivocally dominant, people could still see the inevitable future, of a change in power and authority, on the world stage.\n\nAmong the criticisms of the theory of posthegemony is Richard Johnson's, that it involves \"a marked reduction of social complexity.\" Johnson concedes that \"one considerable achievement of 'the post-hegemony project' is to draw many observable post-9/11 features into a single imaginative picture, while also synthesizing different currents in contemporary social theory.\" But he argues that \"it is strange, however, that the result is viewed as the end of hegemony rather than as a new hegemonic moment.\" He, therefore, calls for a rejuvenation of the concept of hegemony, rather than its abandonment. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "20748340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20748340", "title": "Quest Learning and Assessment", "text": "Quest Learning and Assessment\n\nQuest Learning & Assessment is a non-profit organization at the University of Texas at Austin College of Natural Sciences maintaining a web-based tool for instructors and students of mathematics and science. Originally created as the UT Physics Homework Service as early as 1991, the system was updated and moved to the College of Natural Sciences in 2002 to provide service to the broader array of STEM courses. It is being used at over 1,000 U.S. institutions; high schools as well as 2-yr/4-yr colleges and universities.\n\nInstructors can create homework, quizzes and exams from a large pool (over 75,000) of Mathematics, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Physical Sciences and Computer Science questions. Most questions have built-in variations, so Quest can create custom assignments for each student. Students get immediate feedback when answering questions and can view step-by-step solutions after the assignment due date has passed.\n\nThe default grading system uses a \"guessing neutral\" system similar to the SAT grading scheme. Instructors also have the ability to set the grading system to an \"item neutral\" scale where points are not deducted from the assignment for failed questions. If a student gets an answer correct they are awarded points, however points are subtracted for incorrect answers to discourage guessing in both of these models. Additionally, instructors can use \"One Free Try\" grading in order to encourage students to re-try a question before being penalized.\n\n"}
{"id": "53650320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53650320", "title": "R. Sharath Jois", "text": "R. Sharath Jois\n\nR. Sharath Jois (born September 29, 1971) is a teacher, practitioner and lineage holder (paramaguru) of Ashtanga Yoga, in the tradition of K. Pattabhi Jois. He is the director of the Shri K. Pattabhi Jois Ashtanga Yoga Institute (KPJAYI), formerly Ashtanga Yoga Research Insttitue (AYRI)), in Mysore, India. He is an author, the subject of several documentaries, and is known for his expertise in Ashtanga yoga.\n\nJois was born on September 29, 1971 in Mysore India to Saraswati Rangaswamy, daughter of K. Pattabhi Jois. Jois was born into a family dedicated to the practice, preservation and teaching of Ashtanga yoga as his grandfather had learned from his teacher, T. Krishnamacharya. Jois, being exposed to yoga since birth, began practicing asanas informally around seven years old and continued non-committally until age 14. At the age of 19, he began formal study of the Ashtanga yoga system with his grandfather and is the lineage holder of Ashtanga yoga today.\n\nJois' grandfather, K. Pattabhi Jois, began studying yoga with T. Krishnamacharya at the age of 12, in 1927, and continued his formal study with his teacher until 1954. Pattabhi Jois spent more than 70 years of his life dedicated to practicing and teaching Ashtanga yoga. He established the Ashtanga Yoga Research Institute, his first yoga school, in his home in Lakshmipuram in 1948. To accommodate the increasing number of students coming to study, he opened a new school in Gokulam in 2002. \n\nJois was beset by many illnesses when he was a child. When he was four years old, he contracted an infection while in Northern Karnataka, where his father was working. It turned out to be glandular fever, which required a one-year treatment. When he was seven, he fell down during the construction of Pattabhi Jois’s new yoga school, and broke his leg. The resulting bed-rest left him with low hemoglobin, which resulted in rheumatic fever. His mother, Saraswati Jois, said, \"From ages four through fourteen, [it was] one thing after another.\" When Jois turned fourteen, he became focused on his scholastic education, earning a diploma in electronics from JSS in Mysore.\n\nJois learned his first asanas at age seven. His grandfather, K. Pattabhi Jois, used to say that young children could play with postures from the primary and intermediate series, as many of them are easy for children to do. Growing up in a house full of yoga practitioners and teachers, he was bound to do the same.\n\nWhen he was 19 years old, his mother told him that he should begin assisting his grandfather in the yoga shala, as there were many students, and his grandfather was not a young man anymore. From that time, he became Pattabhi Jois’s full-time assistant. It was during these years that Sharath’s devotion to the practice deepened and he began to intuit its transformative power.\n\nJois studied the experiential as well as the theoretical aspects of yoga with his grandfather for quite some time before he felt that he was ready to guide others through the method. Sharath notes that it is important for a practitioner to understand the asana and the associated vinyasa before teaching others. He spent countless hours observing his grandfather teach, working with students of various body types, and developing a sense of how to work with individual differences.\n\nAs a teacher, Jois reinforces the idea that practising Ashtanga yoga is a process and that asanas are simply one aspect of the practice, preparing individuals to incorporate the other limbs into their lives. There are many layers to the practice and although it may appear as a linear practice, marked by progression based on the addition of new asanas, it is in fact, much more nuanced. This is precisely why students are encouraged to focus on the physical practice because the experiential aspects of the practice are where the true learning occurs, not simply by reading about yoga theory; the practice is the foundation for the practical application of yoga theory. \n\nJois began traveling internationally with his grandfather in the 1990s to teach Ashtanga yoga. They felt it was imperative to travel and teach an authentic system of yoga in the West where yoga was becoming increasingly popular and being taught in non-traditional ways. In efforts to maintain the integrity and tradition of the practice, Sharath continues to travel and teach worldwide.\n\nIn 2007 when Pattabhi Jois was not in good health and unable to teach any longer, Jois became director of the Institute. Sharath has steadily grown into his role as director of KPJAYI and as the seniormost authority on the practice, having studied and practiced all six series with his grandfather. Jois' style of teaching and presence in the shala has been described by a senior student as a balance of strictness and compassion.\n\nIn attempts to continue the parampara of yoga, Sharath holds a teachers' course in the summer for authorized and certified practitioners to ensure the Ashtanga method is being taught in the spirit of the tradition and with respect to the lineage of yoga gurus who have kept the practice alive - Rama Mohan Bramachari, T. Krishnamacharya, and K. Pattabhi Jois. Jois was honoured at a celebration thrown following the completion of one of the teacher’s courses in 2014. During this course, Sharath reminded his students of the importance of teaching \"from the heart\".\n\nFollowing in the spirit of his late grandfather, Jois holds conferences on Saturdays after led classes to discuss important aspects of the practice, theory, and to address any questions or concerns that students may have concerning the practice. Jois reiterates, that to receive full benefits of the practice, one should practice intentionally with the 4 D’s in mind - devotion, dedication, determination, and discipline.\n\nJois has explored and highlighted different asanas for their therapeutic benefits in alleviating issues such respiratory problems, back pain, and digestive disorders. Paschimottanasana, a forward folding posture, can alleviate digestive and respiratory issues while providing stress relief by stimulating digestive fire, removing toxins and removing excess fat in the waist. Mayurasana aids digestive processes, assuages abdominal disorders, in addition to reducing phlegm, and inflammation. In \"Ashtanga Yoga Anusthana\", Sharath demonstrates other asanas that can be practiced to aid in reducing distress caused from the aforementioned issues.\n\nSharath has also experimented with and utilized pranayama techniques to help people suffering from a range of maladies, including respiratory issues to stress. He has experimented with unique applications of Nadi Shodhana, or alternate nostril breathing, for helping to cure serious respiratory disorders such as allergies, asthma and dysfunctions of the trachea.\n\n\nJois published \"Ashtanga Yoga Anusthana\" which provides an introduction and overview to Ashtanga Yoga, delineating the eight limbs of the practice, the importance of Tristhana and Vinyasa, main asanas of the primary series, and supplemental asanas for therapy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49444", "title": "Racial quota", "text": "Racial quota\n\nRacial quotas in employment and education are numerical requirements for hiring, promoting, admitting and/or graduating members of a particular racial group. Racial quotas are often established as means of diminishing racial discrimination, addressing under-representation and evident racism against those racial groups or, the opposite, against the disadvantaged majority group (see numerus clausus or bhumiputra systems).\n\nIt has been argued that such quotas are a form of racial discrimination.\n\nThese quotas may be determined by governmental authority and backed by governmental sanctions. When the total number of jobs or enrollment slots is fixed, this proportion may get translated to a specific number.\n\nThe Mongols divided different races into a four-class system during the Yuan dynasty.\n\nThe Mongol Emperor Kublai Khan had introduced a hierarchy of reliability by dividing the population of the Yuan Dynasty into the following classes:\n\n\nSeveral laws enforcing racial segregation of foreigners were passed during the Tang dynasty. In 779 AD, the Tang dynasty issued an edict which forced Uighurs to wear their ethnic dress, and restricted them from marrying Chinese.\n\nIn 836 AD, Lu Chun was appointed as governor of Canton. He was disgusted to find Chinese living with foreigners and intermarriage. Lu enforced separation, banning interracial marriages, and prevented foreigners from owning properties.\nThe 836 law specifically banned Chinese from forming relationships with \"Dark peoples\" or \"People of colour\", terms referring to foreigners, such as \"Iranians, Sogdians, Arabs, Indians, Malays, Sumatrans\", etc.\n\nBy 1935, the French government enacted a series of racial quotas on certain professions.\n\nSee Nazi boycott of Jewish businesses.\n\nSee Bumiputera (Malaysia).\n\nThe National Origins Formula was an American system of immigration quotas, between 1921 and 1965, which restricted immigration on the basis of existing proportions of the population. The goal was to maintain the existing ethnic composition of the United States. It had the effect of giving low quotas to Eastern and Southern Europe.\n\nSuch racial quotas were restored after the Civil Rights Act of 1964, especially during the 1970s. Richard Nixon's Labor Secretary George P. Schultz demanded that anti-black construction unions allow a certain number of black people into the unions. The Department of Labor began enforcing these quotas across the country. After a U.S. Supreme Court case, \"Griggs v. Duke Power Company\", found that neutral application tests and procedures that still resulted in \"de facto\" segregation of employees (if previous discrimination had existed) were illegal, more companies began implementing quotas on their own.\n\nIn a 1973 court case, a federal judge created one of the first mandated quotas when he ruled that half of the Bridgeport, Connecticut Police Department's new employees must be either black or Puerto Rican. In 1974, the Department of Justice and the United Steelworkers of America came to an agreement on the largest-to-then quota program, for steel unions.\n\nIn 1978, the Supreme Court ruled in \"Regents of the University of California v. Bakke\" that public universities (and other government institutions) could not set specific numerical targets based on race for admissions or employment. The Court said that \"goals\" and \"timetables\" for diversity could be set instead. A 1979 Supreme Court case, \"United Steelworkers v. Weber\", found that private employers could set rigid numerical quotas, if they chose to do so. In 1980, the Supreme Court found that a 10% racial quota for federal contractors was permitted.\n\nThen in 1991, President George H. W. Bush made an attempt to abolish affirmative action altogether, maintaining that \"any regulation, rule, enforcement practice or other aspect of these programs that mandates, encourages, or otherwise involves the use of quotas, preferences, set-asides or other devices on the basis of race, sex, religion or national origin are to be terminated as soon as is legally feasible\". This claim led up to the creation of the Civil Rights Act of 1991, however the document was not able to implement these changes. It only covered the terms for settling cases where discrimination has been confirmed to have occurred.\n\nCollege admissions in the United States have had racial quotas; see for details. These have notably included blanket bans on African-Americans, Jewish quotas from 1918 to the 1950s, and an alleged Asian quota from the 1980s and ongoing .\n\nOpponents of quotas object that one group is favored at the expense of another whenever a quota is invoked rather than factors such as grade point averages or test scores. They argue that using quotas displaces individuals that would normally be favored based on their individual achievements. Opponents of racial quotas believe that qualifications should be the only determining factor when competing for a job or admission to a school. It is argued this causes \"reverse discrimination\" where individuals in the majority to lose out to a minority.\n\nSome affirmative action programs openly involve quotas such as the admission program of the Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul. \n\nThe law student organization Building a Better Legal Profession has developed a method to encourage politically liberal students to avoid law firms whose racial makeup is markedly different than that of the population as a whole. In an October 2007 press conference reported in \"The Wall Street Journal\", and the New York Times the group released data publicizing the numbers of African-Americans, Hispanics, and Asian-Americans at America's top law firms. The group has sent information to top law schools around the country, encouraging students who agree with this viewpoint to take the demographic data into account when choosing where to work after graduation. As more students choose where to work based on the firms' diversity rankings, firms face an increasing market pressure to change theirs.\n\n\nExamples:\n\nRelated:\n"}
{"id": "14901108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14901108", "title": "Recommendation Concerning the Status of Higher Education Teaching Personnel", "text": "Recommendation Concerning the Status of Higher Education Teaching Personnel\n\nThe 1997 UNESCO Recommendation Concerning the Status of Higher Education Teaching Personnel is the international instrument that sets out the norms and standards for educators working in universities and institutions of higher education. The Recommendation is the only international instrument setting out norms and standards that deals exclusively with educators within universities and institutions of higher education, and as such it is of unique importance.\n\nThe formulation process for the Recommendation involved extensive consultation with experts and member states of UNESCO (the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization). As the Recommendation concerned employment conditions, there was also extensive consultation with the ILO (International Labor Organization). The Recommendation was adopted by unanimous vote of the General Conference of UNESCO, on 11 November 1997.\n\nIn UNESCO usage, a recommendation is a formal international instrument accepted by the member states of UNESCO (UNESCO, 1981). As is generally the case with international instruments, the Recommendation is soft law, that is, the enforcement of the norms and standards within the Recommendation is through the force of moral persuasion. There is, however, potential for individual governments to translate the Recommendation into hard law, through individual legislation.\n\nThe rationale for the Recommendation, as expressed in the Preamble, is that higher education plays a crucial role in both developed and developing societies. It is therefore of social importance to have specific norms and standards regarding employment and pay conditions for educators working within the higher education sector.\n\nThere is ongoing debate as to how effective the Recommendation has been. Dr Taye Assefa (2007) and Dr James Page (2007) have recently argued that there is widespread ignorance of the Recommendation and the standards the Recommendation sets out. Dr Page suggests that a range of measures, specifically supporting legislation by individual countries, may be necessary to ensure compliance with the standards set down in the Recommendation.\n\n"}
{"id": "18014646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18014646", "title": "Sanford Kwinter", "text": "Sanford Kwinter\n\nSanford Kwinter is a Canadian-born, New York-based writer and architectural theorist, and a co-founder of Zone Books publishers. Kwinter currently serves as Professor of Theory and Criticism at the Pratt Institute. He formerly served as an associate professor at Rice University in Houston, Texas, and has also taught at MIT, Columbia University and Cornell University and at Harvard University Graduate School of Design.\n\nHaving received a doctorate in comparative literature from Columbia University, Kwinter lectured at Harvard University, the University of Applied Arts Vienna (\"Universität für angewandte Kunst Wien\"), the Berlage Institute in Rotterdam, the Architectural Association in London and the Städelschule in Frankfurt. Over the past twenty years, his publications have pioneered new ideas in art, architecture, science and the humanities. He has written widely on philosophical issues related to design, architecture, and urbanism, and was involved in the series of conferences and publications convened by ANY magazine between 1991 and 2000.\n\nKwinter has a Ph.D. from Columbia University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10450188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10450188", "title": "Sara Caldwell", "text": "Sara Caldwell\n\nSara Caldwell (born Sara Chapin Coover; 1961 in New York City) is an American author and screenwriter/filmmaker. She was founder and producer/writer of Amphion Productions from 1991 to 2006 and is currently a co-producer and writer for House of Gorey Productions.\n\nThe daughter of writer Robert Coover, and Spanish needlepoint artist Pilar Sans Coover, Sara Caldwell lived in many different locations when growing up, both small towns and large cities in Guatemala, Spain, England, and various parts of the United States. She attended the progressive boarding school, Dartington Hall School, in Totnes, England. Returning to America at the age of 17, she pursued a bachelor's degree in Communications from the University of Iowa, where she was a member of the undergraduate Iowa Writers Workshop. \n\nAfter graduation, Caldwell moved to Chicago, Illinois to work as a producer/writer. \n\nWhilst in Chicago, she became involved with an inner city tutoring program, resulting in the production of her first documentary, 'Cabrini Green... what you don't see' which aired on the Chicago PBS station. She eventually became an original founder and board director for the Tutor/Mentor Connection.\n\nCaldwell moved to Washington, DC in 1989 to work for WORLDNET, a division of USIA. Here, she was a writer/producer for live interactive broadcasts to Africa, East Asia, and the Middle East. She then worked at Motion Masters in Charleston, WV for six months before returning to Chicago in 1991 to form Amphion Productions. She then worked as a freelance writer/producer on hundreds of projects and was a 1997 competition winner for the Chicago/Illinois Screenplay Contest. She moved her company to Los Angeles in 1998 and has since written three books on screenwriting/film production topics. She is also a professor of film/screenwriting courses at College of the Canyons in Santa Clarita, California and the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandizing (FIDM) in Los Angeles. In 2010 she partnered with her husband Walter Gorey to form House of Gorey Productions.\n\nIn 2018, she penned her first young adult novel, \"Raven Dock\", to be published by White Bird Publications. The novel is part of a series known as Dark Coven. She also co-wrote/produced/directed the YouTube comedy web series, \"BOOMERS\".\n\nCaldwell lives in Valencia, California.\n\nGorey Productions and Caldwell's screenplays have won awards including:\n\nScreenplay Awards\n- Winner, Best Original Screenplay – Burbank International Film Festival \n- Best Screenplay – Shivers International Film Festival \n- 1st Place, Horror Category – Cannes Screenplay Contest \n- Best Screenplay – Dazed4Horror Film Festival, Bay City, Texas\n\nShort Film Awards \n- Best Short Film – Indie Horror Film Festival, Gatlinburg, TN\n- Best Short Horror Film – Los Angeles Independent Film Festival\n- Best Short Horror Film, Best Director – Creative Arts Film Festival\n- Best Short Film – Los Angeles Thriller Film Festival\n- Audience Choice Award – Haunted Horror Film Festival, Freeport, TX\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42051274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42051274", "title": "School Certificate (Mauritius)", "text": "School Certificate (Mauritius)\n\nThe School Certificate is an academic qualification in Mauritius awarded upon the completion of Form 5, the penultimate stage of secondary school. The qualification is awarded upon earning passing marks on the O-level exams administered by the Mauritius Examinations Syndicate, in conjunction with the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate of the Cambridge International Examinations board. \n\nTypically around 8 to 10 subjects are chosen by the student to be studied at O-level. These subjects may determine the available options for future study at A-level, to be taken for the Higher School Certificate, and for tertiary study in higher education institutions. \n\nCambridge School Certificate candidates may take the following subjects at O-level:\n\nStudents who successfully earn the qualification may then progress to study for the A-level examinations and earn the Higher School Certificate. Students who are unsuccessful in obtaining the qualification may then transition from the academic stream to the vocational stream and progress onto vocational programmes of study. Students may also choose to obtain IGCSE qualifications at a later time. \n\n"}
{"id": "2590073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2590073", "title": "Speak Mandarin Campaign", "text": "Speak Mandarin Campaign\n\nThe Speak Mandarin Campaign (SMC; ) is an initiative by the government of Singapore to encourage the Singaporean Chinese population to speak Standard Mandarin Chinese, one of the four official languages of Singapore. Launched on 7 September 1979 by then Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew and organised by the Promote Mandarin Council, the SMC has been an annual event promoting the use of Mandarin.\nIn 1966, the Singaporean government implemented a policy of bilingual education, where Singaporean students learn both English and their designated mother tongue, which was Mandarin for Chinese Singaporeans. The \"Goh Report\", an evaluation of Singapore’s education system by Goh Keng Swee, showed that less than 40% of the student population managed to attain minimum levels of competency in two languages. It was later determined that the learning of Mandarin among Singaporean Chinese was hindered by home use of other Chinese varieties, such as Hokkien, Teochew, Cantonese and Hakka. Hence, the government decided to rectify problems facing implementation of the bilingual education policy, by launching a campaign to promote Mandarin as a common language among the Chinese population, and to discourage use of other Chinese varieties.\n\nLaunched in 1979 by then Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, the campaign aimed to simplify the language environment for Chinese Singaporeans, improve communication between them, and create a Mandarin-speaking environment conducive to the successful implementation of the bilingual education programme. The initial goal of the campaign was for all young Chinese to stop speaking dialects in five years, and to establish Mandarin as the language of choice in public places within 10 years. According to the government, for the bilingual policy to be effective, Mandarin should be spoken at home and should serve as the \"lingua franca\" among Chinese Singaporeans. They also argued that Mandarin was more economically valuable, and speaking Mandarin would help Chinese Singaporeans retain their heritage, as Mandarin supposedly contains a cultural repository of values and traditions that are identifiable to all Chinese, regardless of dialect group.\n\nThe focus of SMC began with encouraging more people, especially the young, to speak Mandarin in place of dialects; allowing people from different dialectal groups to communicate better with a common language and, at the same time, reducing barriers between the different groups, resulting from the use of different dialects. This is important in the unification of all Chinese in Singapore, especially after independence. To meet the demands of globalisation and other economic challenges as a young nation, the government began to place greater emphasis on English. As a result, many English-educated Chinese Singaporeans began to lose their Mandarin or Chinese language skills. During the Singaporean general election, 1991, the People's Action Party (PAP) won a lower majority than usual, in part because of opposition parties' exploitation of the linguistic anxieties of working-class, dialect-speaking Chinese Singaporeans. Those Singaporeans clung onto their dialect as part of an identity, refusing to register their children in schools with Mandarin names. \n\nAs a result, the PAP government switched its focus away from dialects, towards encouraging English-speaking and educated Chinese to speak more Mandarin. In 1994, the SMC specifically targeted English-educated business professionals and working adults. It promoted the use of Mandarin, to keep their links to cultural roots, so as to better appreciate the heritage and value and, most importantly, complement the economical aspects as China began to rise in the business sector. However, recently, through The Chinese Challenge, we can see that the SMC has moved towards a cultural aspect, whereby its main focus is to promote Singaporeans to hold on to their \"roots\", knowing their own culture well.\n\nThis section summarises the yearly campaigns that make up the SMC. (The meanings of the Chinese and English slogans are often the same, but sometimes completely different.)\n华人讲华语，合情又合理 (Mandarin's In. Dialect's Out)<br>\nIn 1983, the promotion of Mandarin moved to markets and food centres, closer to the heartlands. Between 1983 and 1987, Telecoms also offered ‘Dial for Mandarin Lessons’ services on a 24-hour basis every day. Peak-hour calls averaged about 40,000. \"A need for common language between different ethnic Singaporeans or effective communication of thoughts\" and to \"preserve cultural roots by learning written Chinese and speaking Mandarin, since culture is transmitted through written words\", were some highlights of the campaign launching speeches in 1983.\n\n讲华语？没问题！Speak Mandarin? No problem!\nThe official speech during the launch of the Speak Mandarin Campaign 2000 was given by Mr. Mah Bow Tan, Minister for National Development. In the speech, he gave credits to the SMC, for successfully establishing Mandarin as a principal language of communication amongst Singaporean Chinese, but says that a higher standard of spoken Mandarin needs to be achieved. Having a good command of Mandarin exposes people to culture and heritage, as well as facilitating dealings with Asia's potential economy powerhouse, China. The community and schools have new roles to play to increase and improve the use and standards of Mandarin in Singapore.\n\n华语 COOL! (Mandarin COOL!)<br>\nThe official speech during the launch of the campaign was given by Mr. Wong Kan Seng, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Home Affairs at the official launch. The message for that year was for \"Singaporean Chinese to use Mandarin not in place of, but in addition to English as Mandarin adds so much to our cultural and personal enrichment and business effectiveness. Together with its partners, the Promote Mandarin Council is now encouraging Singaporean Chinese to go beyond just seeing Mandarin as hip or cool, but also to deepen their knowledge of the rich heritage.\"<br>\n2006’s theme of the campaign is '华语 COOL', with the goals of making people deepen their appreciation of the Chinese heritage and to be able to communicate in elegant Mandarin in addition to English. The Campaign uses a lifestyle-oriented approach, revolving around movies, music and metaphors, extending the theme of \"华语 COOL\". Some examples of resources of the Movies, Music and Metaphors include:\n\nThe theme song for the campaign for that year is 《我想听你说》 (wǒ xiǎng tīng nǐ shuō) by Singaporean singer, Joi Chua.<br>\nSome of the other partners include ComfortDelGro, Lianhe ZaoBao, Mediacorp TV, STOMP, Tong Shui Café and the SAF Music & Drama Company.\n\nTo promote Mandarin as an enjoyable, fun and living language via popular lifestyle activities, to show how Chinese Singaporeans can embrace Mandarin in their daily lives, was the aim of SMC in 2007/ 08. The tagline is ‘讲华语, 你肯吗?’ (Speak Mandarin - Are You Game?). SMC also retains its \"华语 Cool!\" branding which is now familiar and popular among Chinese Singaporeans. \n\nFor a period of 12 months, starting from 5 November 2007, the campaign featured a series of fun and engaging programmes and activities by its partners. Key strands of SMC 07/08 are Sports, Culture and The Arts, Design and Lifestyle.\n\nSPORTS\nDuring the official launch of the campaign on 5 November 2007, Mr. Lee Swee Say, Minister in Prime Minister’s office, announced the partnership between the SMC and various sports organizations. The sports partners for 2007’s campaign include the Singapore Sports Council (SSC), Football Association of Singapore, the S-League, and The Cage. \n\"The Straits Times\" and STOMP! also launched a new initiative- ‘On Your Marc, Get Set, Go!’ with \"The Straits Times\"’ correspondent, Marc Lim on his Mandarin-learning journey as he picks up pointers from national athletes.\n\nCULTURE\nGoing for a fresher look, the SMC’s promotional materials, from outdoor advertisements to posters and collateral, are designed with an edgy, vibrant and contemporary feel. Activists are also featured in the posters, to encourage more Chinese Singaporeans to explore Mandarin together with them. The campaign’s theme song \"挑战 (Challenge)\" was created by two of the most sought-after talents in Asia’s Mandarin Pop scene - Eric Ng (composer) and Xiaohan (lyrics). The song was performed by Ngak, a good example of a predominantly English-speaking Chinese Singaporean. Partners, including Theatre Practice and Funkie Monkies Productions will be tapping on theatre and music, to encourage Chinese Singaporeans to enjoy speaking Mandarin.\n\nThe Arts, Design and Lifestyle \nPartners such as Night and Day Bar+Gallery+Friends and 77th Street came together for the first time with some of Singapore’s ‘edgy’ designers, to create an exciting initiative to promote SMC 07/08. Theatre Practice also continued to make Chinese Theatre accessible to Singaporeans who are interested in Chinese Theatre and culture, thus, opening the doors to SMC’s target audience.\n\nOther notable activities to promote Mandarin:<br>\nDADDY & MOMMY MANDARIN STORYTELLING COMPETITION 2008 \nPresented by Eduplus Language Centre and supported by Speak Mandarin Campaign and National Library Board, the Daddy & Mommy Mandarin Storytelling competition is a unique opportunity for the whole family to learn, play and perform on the stage together! It was held at Woodlands Regional Library on 21 June 2008.\n\n华文？谁怕谁 (Be heard in Chinese) <br>\nThe 2009 SMC started with a series of videos on foreign children speaking correctly pronounced and fluent Chinese, showed that anyone can learn Chinese, that it is not something only the Chinese people can acquire. The video shows foreign children talking about either Chinese myths or other Chinese related culture. The Promote Mandarin Council is trying to alert Singaporeans to embrace Singaporean heritage and pass it on to the next generation.\n\nThe purpose of these \"Be heard in Chinese\" videos was not to mock Singaporeans, who are born Chinese but cannot speak Chinese. Instead, it reminded parents to create a learning environment for their children, to get to know Chinese via culture and knowledge, instead of seeing it as a tool to venture into the China market.\nIn the following year, the SMC started a series of promotions on \"The Chinese Challenge\", where it moved to a wider audience and became more general. The main purpose of \"The Chinese Challenge\", which is an online contest, is to provide an interactive platform, to encourage Singaporeans and even Permanent Residents to enjoy and improve their Mandarin and deepen their knowledge of Chinese culture, through experiencing the finest in Chinese culture and language. Therefore, it is not to just asking people to learn Chinese, but also to create an environment that allows them to learn Chinese effectively.\nIn addition, in order to attract more youths towards speaking and knowing Chinese, in 2010 \"The Chinese Challenge\" added a student category, to reach out to more youths.\n\n华文华语 多用就可以 (Mandarin. It Gets Better With Use) <br>\nFor 2011's campaign, the Government plan was to boost Mandarin lessons, by making them more fun and engaging through the use of digital media. New initiatives, such as the Theme Song Contest and Short Video Clip Competition, were introduced and targeted at youths and students. Newly appointed Chairman of the Promote Mandarin Council, Mr Seow Choke Meng, extended his invitation for all to support the Promote Mandarin Council in its efforts to promote Mandarin, and urged all Chinese Singaporeans to leverage on their foundation, and use Mandarin frequently to keep the language alive in our community. <br>\n\nIn 2012, to celebrate the 33rd year of promoting Mandarin in Singapore, the Promote Mandarin Council introduced a brand new initiative- the iHuayu iPhone app (released on 24 July 2012). iHuayu offers 50,000 bilingual business and Singapore-related terms frequently used in the media, accompanied with sample sentences and scenarios. The app can be purchased for free from the iTunes Store. Android mobile phone users can also download the iHuayu (i华语) application on Google Play.\nAlso introduced is a new song Shuo (说) as part of the initiatives for 2012. The song encourages listeners to speak more and to use the language, as it gets easier with use. Shuo is composed, arranged and produced by Iskandar Ismail and performed by Singaporean artiste, Tay Kewei.\n\nThe Speak Mandarin Campaign is a year-round campaign, which uses publicity and activities in the community to create awareness and to facilitate the learning of Mandarin. Every year, the Speak Mandarin Campaign will collaborate with different partners to reach out to a wider scope of audience. For instance, in 2005, the partners of Speak Mandarin Campaign, which are the Singapore Zoological Gardens and Singapore Night Safari, started to add Chinese interpretation for signs and directions and even the pamphlet were written in Chinese. By doing so, not only does it help tourists from China, it also helps create a learning environment for local children to learn Chinese.\n\nInitially in 1979, where the campaign first started, use of Mandarin was promoted from all public domains; in the early years, there was some selective dialect suppression as well. Government officers including those in hospitals were not allowed to use dialects except to those over 60 years old. People under 40 in the service line were also made to communicate in Mandarin instead of dialects.\n\nAttempts to limit the domain of dialects began in the 1980s, with the last Cantonese TV programmes being phased out in 1981, and the only Hong Kong TV series shown being dubbed in Mandarin. However, these were hindered by the aggressive expansion of Hong Kong's Cantopop industry into Singapore, although state-owned television tried to simultaneously promote Mandarin by requiring subtitles in the standard language on dialect programming. The government proved more successful in limiting access TV3 from Malaysia, which carried Cantonese programming, by prevented people in government-built housing blocks from installing the special antennas required to receive the channel, it prevented local newspapers and magazines from carrying listings for it. \n\nIn addition, in collaboration with Speak Mandarin Campaign, Golden Village started to show more Chinese movies especially of local production to increase the awareness of speaking Mandarin. The Singaporean state did not prioritize the suppression of the dialects However, suppression of dialects was never a major part of the campaign, since the government was tolerant of old peoples' use of dialect, and assumed that young people would have no use for dialects. In fact, the government promoted Cantonese opera as a traditional ethnic performance and sponsored night classes in Cantonese music in government-run community centers.\n\nOne of the most influential implementations that the Speak Mandarin Campaign has used is \"The Straits Times\". For instance, as part of the campaign to promote greater use for Chinese, the English newspaper would publish daily Mandarin vocabulary lessons in order to help Singaporeans improve their standard for Mandarin.\n\nOther ways of encouraging people to learn Chinese is to sign up for speak Mandarin courses, listen to Chinese music, explore online resources and download audio lessons, which can be found in the official website of Speak Mandarin Campaign. Besides, in 2005, there were publications of CD-ROMs and tapes on Mandarin lessons, handbooks of English-Chinese terms as well as telephone Mandarin lessons to help people to learn Mandarin. Notably, in 2006, my Paper which was published by the Singapore Press Holdings became the first free Chinese newspaper to be given out in Singapore. In 2008, my Paper went from being a Chinese newspaper into a bilingual newspaper and the circulation rate hit 300,000.\n\nEducation is one of the most effective ways to promote use of Mandarin. In 2004, Singapore government specially set up a committee to review methods for teaching Chinese courses, whereby creative Chinese writing courses were set up in schools in 2005, as a way to intrigue and engage students in learning Chinese. Also, other education organizations such as Nanyang Technological University has set up a Chinese faculty and even collaborates with Confucius Institute to help train teachers with regards to Chinese language, to improve the standard of Chinese education in Singapore and in order to influence people with regards to the use of Chinese.\n\nFormer Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, a native English speaker who had learned Mandarin later in life, expressed his concern about the declining proficiency of Mandarin among younger Singaporeans. In a parliamentary speech, he said: \"Singaporeans must learn to juggle English and Mandarin\". Therefore, he launched a television program, 华语!, in January 2005, in an attempt to attract young viewers to learn Mandarin.\n\nFollowing this, in June 2005, Lee published a book, \"Keeping My Mandarin Alive\", documenting his decades of effort to master Mandarin — a language which he had to re-learn due to disuse:\n\n\"...because I don't use it so much, therefore it gets disused and there's language loss. Then I have to revive it. It's a terrible problem because learning it in adult life, it hasn't got the same roots in your memory.\"\n\nIn the same year 2005, the campaign started to rebrand Chinese by using local artists and cool leisure activities, hence the birth of the slogan \"Mandarin, Cool!\".\n\nThe success of the campaign was evident 20 years from the launch of the campaign. The campaign has significantly reduced the number of non-Mandarin speakers in Singapore. The use of other varieties at home dropped from 81.4% in 1980 to 19.2% in 2010. Meanwhile, households that claimed to use Mandarin as the dominant language at home increased from 10.2% in 1980 to 47% in 2010.\n\nThe Speak Mandarin Campaign has come under criticism from several fronts. Dialect speakers have complained that their children have to study two foreign languages English and Mandarin. This is contrasted to a possible alternative policy of English and their native language. Lee Kuan Yew himself recognized this and acknowledged that for many Chinese Singaporeans, Mandarin is a \"stepmother tongue\" and \"dialect is the real mother tongue\". Further, in 2009, in spite of the ongoing 华文？谁怕谁 (Be heard in Chinese) movement, Lee admitted that the teaching of Mandarin Chinese in schools went the \"wrong way\" and that due to his insistence on bilingualism, \"successive generations of students paid a heavy price\". In June 2010, Lee also said that \"Mandarin is important but it remains a second language in Singapore\".\n\nSome critics include that the Mandarin education system's goal of promoting cultural identity has left many younger generations of Mandarin speakers unable to communicate with their dialect-speaking grandparents. They have also compared the policy to that of Russification and intentional language elimination. The reduction in the number of Chinese dialect speakers in Singapore has raised concerns on the issues of preservation of these dialects. In March 2009, when \"The Straits Times\" ran an article by Dr Ng Bee Chin, who was quoted as saying that \"40 years ago, we were even more multilingual... All it takes is one generation for a language to die.\" The article soon caught the attention of Mr Chee Hong Tat, the Principal Private Secretary of Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew. In the letter from Mr Chee to the editor in The Straits Times Forum, he highlighted the importance of English and Mandarin over dialects and spoke of how speaking dialects ultimately \"interferes with the learning of Mandarin and English\". He also added that \"it would be stupid for any Singapore agency or NTU to advocate the learning of dialects, which must be at the expense of English and Mandarin.\"\n\nNon-Chinese language communities (principally the Malays and Tamils), on the other hand, have argued that the effort placed into promoting Mandarin weakens the role of English as Singapore's \"lingua franca\" and threatens to marginalize Singapore's minorities. In fact, dialects such as Hokkien, along with Malay have served as a language for the Straits Chinese, or \"Peranakan\". In the Singaporean and Malaysian version of Hokkien, one cannot deny the plethora of Malay loan words, and vice versa. During the 1960s, Bazzar Lingua was a confluence of Malay, Hokkien, Tamil, English and other dialects. Some have expressed concern that requirements of Mandarin fluency or literacy could be used to discriminate against non-Chinese minorities. Current employment laws prohibit racial discrimination but employers often circumvent this by requiring applicants to be bilingual in English and Mandarin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27560225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27560225", "title": "Switch access scanning", "text": "Switch access scanning\n\nSwitch access scanning is an indirect selection technique (or access method), used by an assistive technology user, including those who use augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) to choose items from the selection set. Unlike direct selection (e.g., typing on a keyboard, touching a screen), a scanner can only make selections when the scanning indicator (or cursor) of the electronic device is on the desired choice. The scanning indicator moves through items by highlighting each item on the screen (i.e., visual scanning), or by announcing each item via voice output (i.e., auditory scanning), and then the user activates a switch to select the item. The speed and pattern of scanning, as well as the way items are selected, are individualized to the physical, visual and cognitive capabilities of the user. While there may be different reasons for using scanning, the most common is a physical disability resulting in reduced motor control for direct selection. Communication during scanning is slower and less efficient than direct selection and scanning requires more cognitive skill (e.g., attention). Scanning using technology has an advantage allows the user to be independent in controlling the assistive technology for those with only one voluntary movement.\n\nA scanning pattern refers to the way items in the selection set are presented to the user. It allows for easier item selection as the scanning is systematic and predictable. Three primary scanning patterns exist:\n\nScanning control and item selection occurs through switch activation in three general ways:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31461708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31461708", "title": "The Boarding School; or, Lessons of a Preceptress to Her Pupils", "text": "The Boarding School; or, Lessons of a Preceptress to Her Pupils\n\nThe Boarding School; or, Lessons of a Preceptress to Her Pupils, or The Boarding School is a novel written by Hannah Webster Foster which was published in 1798.\n\n\"The Boarding School\" was written by Hannah Webster Foster in 1798. Foster is best known for her epistolary novel \"The Coquette\". As writing was not considered to be a viable career choice for a woman, she published both of her novels as \"A Lady of Massachusetts\". \"The Boarding School\" focuses on a fictitious school called Harmony Grove as another school year ends and a group of students is completing their course of study at the school.\n\nThe novel itself focuses on the ideal education to best prepare these women for their future. The narrative portion of the work is supposed to represent the final lessons that the teacher is giving to her students on how to best use the education that they have received at Harmony Grove when they enter into society.\n\nThe novel is not divided into chapters, but there are two distinct sections of the work. The first focuses on the school and the week of lessons, and the second section is a collection of letters written between the students and to the teacher. The first section represents a more traditional narrative structure and will be discussed below as the \"Narrative\" section and the second section is labeled \"Letters\".\n\nThe Narrative portion of the novel serves two purposes. First, it serves as an introduction to Harmony Grove and its preceptress Mrs. Williams and it is also the section that details the final lectures that Mrs. Williams is giving to her students as they are finishing up their time at the school. There are eleven individual lessons ranging from more academic topics such as reading and writing, to artistic pursuits, even to her opinions on more personal subjects of dress and friendship.\n\nMrs. Williams does not just give the girls her opinions on these matters; she uses examples of past students and girls that she knew to show both the right and wrong things for her students to do in their lives outside of the school. The opinions that are expressed in this section are those of Foster herself, veiled by the fiction this is touted to be.\n\nThe section of the novel that contains the letters of Harmony Grove students shows how the girls put into practice the lessons that Mrs. Williams taught them. The letters contain commentary on the fashions of the time, both sartorial and cultural, as well as the new graduates adjustments back into the world. Comments are made on the actions of other women who had not been at Harmony Grove, stating whether or not they are appropriate. Using an epistolary structure, Foster attempts to instruct her ideal readers, young women like the characters in the book, in the proper course of behavior and the ideal result of a proper education.\n"}
{"id": "13718713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13718713", "title": "The Bully: A Discussion and Activity Story", "text": "The Bully: A Discussion and Activity Story\n\nThe Bully: A Discussion and Activity Story is a 40-page children's story and activity book by Rita Y. Toews published in 2003. The story focuses on giving children a voice as to how bullying makes them feel, and educates parents on how to handle a bully situation in a positive manner. The book can be used in a classroom, one-on-one with a counsellor or with a parent/caregiver.\n\nJason is bullied at school by a child who demands his lunch every day. His mother is informed by the school that he is often hungry and realizes he is being bullied. She advises Jason they will have to take the problem to the school for help. Jason resists. His mother reminds Jason that if the bully isn't stopped he will continue to bully.\n\nThe story is followed by a question and answer section for children. The questions help children express their feelings about bullies, and the answers provide practical ways to deal with the problem. The illustrations for the story can be used as a colouring book while the subject of bullying is discussed. \nThe adult's section of \"The Bully\" contains a question and answer portion that informs parents and caregivers about bullying. It also gives effective information for dealing with a bully in a manner that provides a positive role model for children, as well as providing additional resources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10485259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10485259", "title": "The Ridenhour Prizes", "text": "The Ridenhour Prizes\n\nThe Ridenhour Prizes are awards in four categories given annually in recognition of those \"who persevere in acts of truth-telling that protect the public interest, promote social justice or illuminate a more just vision of society\". The awards are presented by The Nation Institute and The Fertel Foundation in recognition of Ron Ridenhour, the Vietnam War veteran who exposed the My Lai Massacre. Each prize carries a $10,000 stipend. The prizes were first awarded in 2004.\n\nPrize categories include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36808797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36808797", "title": "Thomas Furlong (artist)", "text": "Thomas Furlong (artist)\n\nThomas (Tomas) Furlong (1886–1952) was a Scotch-Irish American artist and teacher.\n\nFurlong was a member of the executive Board of Control of the Art Students League and beginning in 1927 an art instructor at New York University. He was married to Wilhelmina Weber Furlong. In the American modern art movement, his significant circle of friends and acquaintances included John Graham,\nWilem de Kooning, David Smith,\nDorothy Dehner,\nJean Charolot, Alexander Calder, Rockwell and Sally Kent, Thomas Hart Benton, Allen Tucker, Max Weber, Kimon Nicolaidies, and many others. Thomas Furlong lived and worked in New York, City and shared a gallery with his wife Wilhelmina Weber Furlong. He was a realist and an accomplished muralist.\n\n"}
{"id": "17260746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17260746", "title": "We Need to Talk About Kevin (film)", "text": "We Need to Talk About Kevin (film)\n\nWe Need to Talk About Kevin is a 2011 psychological thriller drama film directed by Lynne Ramsay, and adapted from Lionel Shriver's novel of the same title. A long process of development and financing began in 2005, with filming commencing in April 2010.\n\nTilda Swinton stars as the mother of Kevin, struggling to come to terms with her son and the horrors he has committed. The film premiered at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival and was released in the United Kingdom on 21 October 2011.\n\nSwinton was nominated for the Golden Globe Award, Screen Actors Guild, and the BAFTA for Best Actress in a Leading Role. It received generally positive reviews from both critics and audiences alike.\n\nTeenager Kevin Khatchadourian is in prison after committing a massacre at his high school. His mother, Eva, once a successful travel writer, lives alone in a rundown house and works in a travel agency near the prison, where she visits Kevin. She looks back at her memories of him growing up as she tries to cope with the hostility of her neighbors.\n\nKevin is detached and difficult from childhood. He appears to loathe and deliberately antagonize Eva, and she has trouble bonding with him. As a baby, he cries incessantly, but only around her; as a child, he resists toilet training, rebuffs Eva's attempts at affection, and shows no interest in anything. He behaves like a happy, loving son when his father Franklin is watching. Eva's frustration drives her to throw Kevin against the wall, breaking his arm. Kevin tells Franklin he fell, using the incident to blackmail Eva into doing what he wants.\n\nFranklin dismisses Eva's concerns and makes excuses for Kevin's behavior. When Kevin is confined to bed with a fever, Eva reads him a book about Robin Hood; when Robin competes in Prince John's archery contest, Kevin shows Eva affection for the first time. Franklin gives him a bow and arrow and teaches him archery.\n\nEva and Franklin have a second child, Celia, who is lively and cheerful. However, Kevin is disdainful and jealous. A few years later, Celia's pet guinea pig is killed and she is blinded in one eye by caustic cleaning fluid. Eva is suspicious, but Franklin insists that Kevin is not to blame. Eva's suspicion strains the couple's marriage and they discuss divorce. Eva comes to fear her son, as she sees growing evidence of Kevin's sadism.\n\nAs a teenager, Kevin locks several students in the school gymnasium and murders them with his bow. When Eva arrives home, she finds Kevin has murdered Franklin and Celia. On the second anniversary of the massacre, Eva visits Kevin in prison. Eva asks him why he committed the murders. Kevin, who is about to be transferred to an adult prison, responds that he used to think he knew but is no longer sure. Eva hugs Kevin and walks away sadly.\n\n\nIn 2005 BBC Films acquired the rights to adapt the book as a film. Executive producers Paula Jalfon and Christine Langan took it through the development stage, and were joined by executive producer Steven Soderbergh.\n\nLynne Ramsay, who became available after her involvement in the film adaptation of \"The Lovely Bones\" came to an end, signed on to direct, and was working on a script with \"In the Bedroom\" writer Robert Festinger by 2006. Shriver was offered a consultative role in the production process but declined, stating she had \"had it up to [her] eyeballs with that book,\" though she did express concern for how the film would capture Eva's role as the unreliable narrator. Production had not begun by 2007, though BBC Films renewed the adaptation rights early in the year. In an interview with \"The Herald\" in September 2007, Shriver stated that she had not been in contact with Ramsay about the film for over two years. Ramsay's spokesperson told the newspaper that a new script draft was being prepared and, at the time the interview was published, had not been submitted to the producers. \"Michael Clayton\" producer Jennifer Fox joined the production team in 2008; the film was expected to begin shooting that year. The script appeared on the 2008 Brit List, a film-industry-compiled list of the best unproduced screenplays in British film. Ramsay's partner Rory Stewart Kinnear also contributed to the final shooting script.\n\nChristine Langan told the London \"Evening Standard\" in February 2010 that the long delay in production had been caused by BBC Films having difficulty funding the high budget; Ramsay rewrote the script so the film could be made for a lower cost. The UK Film Council awarded £18,510 to the production from its development fund in the same month. Financial backing was also provided by Footprint Investments LLP, Caemhan Partnership LLP and Lipsync Productions, and production is in association with Artina Films and Forward Films.\n\nFilming commenced on 19 April 2010 on location in Stamford, Connecticut, and concluded on 28 May 2010. A key filming location was J.M. Wright Technical High School in Stamford. Jonny Greenwood of the band Radiohead composed the film's score.\n\nIn October 2009, IFC Films picked up the rights to international sales, and made pre-sales at the American Film Market. Artificial Eye distributed the film in the UK from 21 October 2011. Oscilloscope Laboratories distributed the film theatrically in North America in the winter of 2011.\n\nThe film premiered In Competition at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival, where it was met with praise from film critics.\n\n\"We Need to Talk About Kevin\" opened in a limited release in North America in a single theater and grossed $24,587, ranking 53rd at the box office. The film ended up earning $1,738,692 in America, and $5,754,934 internationally, for a total of $7,493,626.\n\n\"We Need to Talk About Kevin\" was released on Blu-ray and DVD on 29 May 2012.\n\n\"We Need to Talk About Kevin\" received positive reviews. The film currently holds an approval rating of 76% on Rotten Tomatoes; the site's consensus reads, \"\"We Need to Talk About Kevin\" is a masterful blend of drama and horror, with fantastic performances across the board (Tilda Swinton especially, delivering one of her very best).\" On Metacritic, the film received a score of 68 out of 100 based on 37 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews.\"\n\n\"Chicago Sun-Times\" critic Roger Ebert gave it 4 out of 4 stars and said, \"As a portrait of a deteriorating state of mind, \"We Need to Talk About Kevin\" is a masterful film.\"\n\nBritish film critic Mark Kermode of BBC Radio 5 Live named \"We Need to Talk About Kevin\" as the Best Film of 2011.\n\nRichard Brody, in \"The New Yorker\", wrote that it \"masquerades as a psychological puzzle but is essentially a horror film full of decorous sensationalism.\" He opined that the film exploited but did not explore the fascination that \"bad seed\" children exert.\n\nJake Martin, a Jesuit priest and movie critic, wrote in his review in \"Busted Halo\" that the film is not \"yet another installment in the pantheon of post-modern films intent upon assaulting the human desire to give meaning to the world.\" Instead, he says, \"\"We Need to Talk About Kevin\" in fact needs to be talked about, as what it is attempting to do by marrying the darkest, most nihilistic components of contemporary cinema with a redemptive message is groundbreaking.\"\n\nTilda Swinton was nominated for a number of acting awards, including a Golden Globe Award, Screen Actors Guild and BAFTA for Best Actress in a leading role.'.\n\n"}
{"id": "708858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708858", "title": "William Masters", "text": "William Masters\n\nWilliam Howell Masters (December 27, 1915 – February 16, 2001) was an American gynecologist, best known as the senior member of the Masters and Johnson sexuality research team. Along with his wife Virginia E. Johnson, he pioneered research into the nature of human sexual response and the diagnosis and treatment of sexual dysfunctions and disorders from 1957 until the 1990s.\n\nBorn in Cleveland, Ohio William Masters was son of Francis Wynn Masters and Estabrooks Taylor Masters. He was one of two children with a younger brother named Frank. Growing up, Masters had a particularly rough childhood at the hands of his father. Francis was a difficult man who liked to be in control and had a very bad temper. All household decisions had to be cleared through him and in fits of anger he used to beat Bill with a belt, sometimes until he bled. Nevertheless, Bill was a bright child, and excelled at school. After his Aunt Sally decided to pay his tuition, he attended the preparatory school for boys called Lawrenceville School. Once Bill began his education, Master's father considered him an adult and gave him little to no financial or family support. He rarely visited home. With the completion of his early education he then attended and graduated from Hamilton College. Afterward, he enrolled at the University of Rochester Medical School, from which he received his medical degree. He was a member of Alpha Delta Phi, and became a faculty member at Washington University in St. Louis. In 1942, he married his first wife, Elizabeth Ellis, who was known as Libby or Betty. The couple had two children.\n\nMasters met Virginia E. Johnson in 1957 when he hired her as a research assistant to undertake a comprehensive study of human sexuality. Masters divorced his first wife, Elizabeth Ellis Masters, to marry Johnson in 1971. They divorced two decades later but continued their work professionally.\n\nWilliam Masters suffered complications from Parkinson's disease and died in Tucson, Arizona on February 16, 2001. Masters's second wife, Virginia Johnson, died in July 2013. Dr. Masters was survived by two children from his marriage to Elizabeth Ellis: Sarah Masters Paul, and William Howell Masters III. He was a church-going Episcopalian and a registered Republican.\n\nThe American cable network Showtime debuted \"Masters of Sex\", a dramatic television series based on the 2009 biography of the same name, on September 29, 2013. The series stars Michael Sheen as Masters and Lizzy Caplan as Virginia Johnson.\n\nSheen has stated in an interview that he does not know what the real Bill Masters was like and he was doing his own interpretation in his portrayal of him.\n"}
