{"id": "40157302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40157302", "title": "1987 Lieyu massacre", "text": "1987 Lieyu massacre\n\nThe 1987 Lieyu massacre, also known as the March 7 Incident, Donggang Incident or Donggang Massacre, occurred on 7 March 1987 at Donggang Bay, Lieyu Island (\"Lesser Kinmen\" or \"Little Quemoy\"), Kinmen, Fujian, Republic of China. According to the diary of General Hau Pei-tsun, nineteen unarmed Vietnamese boat people were killed by the ROC military. There may have been more than nineteen deaths.\n\nThe 1987 Lieyu massacre was preceded by an incident where a young couple from mainland China swam to Dadan Island (大膽島) seeking asylum. At that time, all the islets of the Kinmen Archipelago were considered as war zones under Martial Law, which was to allow the Republic of China (Taiwan) to prevent an attack by the People's Liberation Army of the Communist Party of China. The commanding major-general of the Dadan Defense Team, Premier deputy division commander of the 158 Lieyu Division (烈嶼師), received the couple and escorted them to the superior-level Kinmen Defense Command (金防部), but was immediately relieved of his post for violating the directive to \"Accept no surrender in the war zone\".\n\nAs a result, the commanding lieutenant-colonel of the neighboring Erdan Island, Deputy brigade commander of the 473 Brigade, summoned all the soldiers to reiterate the order that \"Whoever lands on the island must be executed without exception\". Soon after this, he was promoted to the position of 472 Nantang brigade commander (南塘旅), taking charge of all the units in the South Lieyu Defense Team.\n\nAt noon on 28 February 1987, one week before the Lieyu massacre, a local Chinese fishing boat crossed Xiamen Bay. It was intensely fired upon till caught fire near Dadan Island. The fishermen on board waved a white cloth in an attempt to communicate their surrender. However, the boat was sunk by tank gun shots ordered by the new Dadan commander colonel, Secondary deputy division commander of the 158 Division, upon receiving the approval of the Kinmen Defense Command. There was only one survivor swam to cling on a rock nearby, but was eventually lost to the waves.\n\nOn 7 March 1987, a boat carrying Vietnamese refugees arrived in Kinmen requesting political asylum. The request was rejected by the Kinmen Defense Command. The boat was towed away from the shore by a patrol boat of the Amphibious Reconnaissance Battalion (ARB-101, 海龍蛙兵) with a warning not to return. However, for reasons unclear, the information about the boat's presence in the Southern sea was never forwarded to the front line of the coastal defense units, including those in the Lieyu island.\n\nAt 16:37 in the afternoon of 7 March 1987, under heavy fog, the Vietnamese boat was sighted off the shore of Lieyu. The 472 brigade commander and the local 1st Dashanding (大山頂) infantry battalion commander arrived at the scene with staff officers. Warning shots were fired by the ROC military. The Vietnamese boat landed on the beach south-west of Donggang (\"East Cape\", Chinese: 東崗; Pinyin: Dōnggāng) Port (Fort 05). It was hit by crossfire and two bazooka shots by the WPN company in reinforcement. Armor-piercing shells penetrated the wooden hull without explosion. Three unarmed Vietnamese men jumped off the boat, raised their hands, and said in Chinese, \"Don't shoot...\" but were all shot dead instantly.\n\nThe local 3rd Dongang company commander on site received an order from the brigade commander to lead a search team boarding the boat. Two hand grenades were thrown into the boat. The commander then found that all the passengers were Vietnamese refugees with no weapon. The passengers said the vessel had experienced a mechanical failure. Because of the heavy fog, the strong seasonal currents and the rising tide since late afternoon, the boat drifted into the bay. The surviving passengers and the bodies of the dead were taken out of the boat and placed on the beach with neither first aid nor any life support supply rendered. Followed by intense telecommunication with the division HQ, the commanders at the scene received orders from their superiors to execute the passengers to eliminate all the eyewitnesses. Some received multiple shots when one bullet did not kill. Among the bodies piled were elderly, women, one pregnant, children, and a baby in a sweater.\n\nIn the morning 09:00 of 8 March 1987, the Medical Platoon of the battalion HQ Company was called in to bury all the bodies at the beach. The platoon members were ordered to execute any surviving refugees. The wounded were buried alive, and those who were still moving or crying were dictated to be killed by military shovels. The entire boat was also instructed to be burned down aside from the only propeller non-flammable to gasoline, then all buried in sand to destroy all the evidence right away. The last victim, a little boy being hidden underneath a board cell was also executed by order without exception. The guarding sergeant of the battalion HQ company counted the bodies as more than nineteen.\n\nSince some medics defied the direct order of victim execution, the brigade commander instructed the Nantang brigade HQ Company commander captain to dispatch soldiers taking over the battalion HQ and the battalion HQ company as emergency measure. Later that day, another fishing boat from China approached the coast attempting to check out what happened. it was also shot to destroy, and sunk in the open sea with 4 confirmed kills to assure all lips sealed - which some veterans later called the \"March 8 Incident\".\n\nTen weeks later, the President of the Republic of China (Taiwan), Chiang Ching-kuo, reacted to concealment of the massacre by the 158 Division and the Kinmen Defense Command. Commander of the Kinmen Defense Command, General Zhao Wan-fu (Chinese: 趙萬富; Pinyin: Zhào Wànfù), said he was unaware of the event. While being questioned by the Chief of the General Staff, General Hau Pei-tsun, Zhao Wan-fu lied, \"It was just a couple of 'Communist soldiers' (referring to the penetration of People's Liberation Army) being shot in the water\", but Zhao's statement was obviously unbelievable. Then General Hau Pei-tsun ordered the exhumation of the corpses from the first scene, moved them toward a higher hidden slope to the right, filled with cement and built a concrete wall above it to prevent any future investigation. The corpses remain sealed in the final place with no tomb today.\n\nThe bodies were not buried deeply on the first scene. Influenced by tidal seawater and high temperatures, the bodies soon began to decompose and were dug out by wild dogs from the landfill on the back side of the western hill. Accounts of ghost sightings prompted villagers to hold religious ceremonies, making it all the more difficult to block the news.\n\nIn early May 1987, the British Hong Kong newspaper \"South China Morning Post\" first reported the massacre. Informed by the overseas office, higher officials questioned the Kinmen Defense Command but got no concrete response; instead, the Command swapped this coast defense battalion from the front line with another reserve battalion in the training base in urgency in order to strengthen the personnel control and communication restriction to prevent further leaking news, and their unit designation codes were also shifted for the following years to confuse outsiders. Twice of extra bonus cash summing up to half a month of a captain's salary, $6000 were also abnormally awarded to the company commanders against the government ethics on the eve of Dragon boat festival. Until the end of May, recently discharged conscript soldiers from Kinmen began to arrive in Taiwan Proper by the term schedule and finally able to appeal to the newly founded opposition party, Democratic Progressive Party. The information of the massacre started to spread in Taiwan.\n\nOn 5 June 1987, \"Independence Evening Post\" was the first Taiwanese newspaper reporting the massacre with the formal questioning by the newly elected Parliament Member Wu Shu-chen from the Democratic Progressive Party to the Ministry of National Defense during the general assembly of Legislative Yuan. Her questions were repeatedly denied by the Military Spokesman, Major-general Zhang Hui Yuan, who accused Wu of \"sabotaging the national reputation\", and claimed it was actually \"a Chinese fishing boat being sunk in the sea after ignoring the warnings\". The case has been classified as military secret ever since for 20 years to prevent any further leaking information or the prosecution will apply. The official cover-up story of the Chinese fishing boat sunk by one shell of bombardment applied to the public for another 13 years, until being uncovered by the publication of «\"Diary of the Chief of the General Staff (1981-1989)\"» by General Hau in 2000. The Government of the Republic of China has made no comment thereafter.\n\nAfter the scandal was exposed, President Chiang Ching-kuo received a letter from Amnesty International expressing humanitarian concern, and assigned the Chief of General Staff, General Hau, to investigate this case. A special envoy of the Political Warfare Bureau was dispatched to Kinmen and found the case true. All the commanders and the corresponding political officers along the chain of command, including Kinmen Defense Command, 158 Lieyu Division, 472 Nantang Brigade, the 1st Dashanding Battalion, the HQ, WPN and 3rd Donggang companies were detained and brought back to Taipei, then only the division officers were charged in court martial in October, 1987.\n\nBrigade Commander Zhong was sentenced to 1 year and 10 months for abetting murder; Battalion Commander Major Liu was sentenced to 1 year and 10 months for being an accomplice to murder; WPN and 3rd Company commanders, Captain Li and Captain Zhang, both were sentenced to 1 year and 8 months for murder - but all the sentences were commuted with a probation period of three years, therefore none of the convicted field commanders was required to spend a day in jail until later under heavy pressure from the international society and media. Their later regular retirement and pension plans were not affected.\n\nThe superior officers received no official punishment, and recovered their military career after President Chiang suddenly died in January, 1988. Brigade Commander Zhong took a senior lead colonel position in a military academy (陸軍通校); Division Commander Gong shifted to the Chief of Staff of the War College, National Defense University, before being promoted to the Deputy Commander of the Hua-Tung Defense Command (花東防衛司令部) in 1991; Kinmen Defense Commander Zhao was promoted to Deputy Chief Commander General of the Republic of China Army in 1989, and further to Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Republic of China Armed Forces in 1991; then appointed with honours as a strategy advisor (戰略顧問) to the President of the Republic of China in 2 terms, and then the permanent title as the reviewer member (中評委) of the Central Committee of the ruling party, Kuomintang (Chinese Nationalist Party) till his death on Feb. 28, 2016. His official funeral was proceeded with his coffin covered by the National Flag, the military salute of the top-ranked generals, and Vice-president Wu Den-yih presenting the Commendation Decree of President Ma Ying-jeou, who praises Zhao's 50-year career in national security with so-called \"loyalty, diligence, bravery, perseverance, intelligence, wisdom, insight and proficiency\" (忠勤勇毅，才識閎通), whereas \"his virtue and conducts have set a good example model for future generation to follow...\" (武德景行，貽範永式... 逾五十載攄忠護民，越半世紀衛國干城，崇勛盛業，青史聿昭).\n\nThe Government of the Republic of China has never rendered an apology nor any compensation to the victim families or the victim country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48443072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48443072", "title": "Almudena Bernabeu", "text": "Almudena Bernabeu\n\nAlmudena Bernabeu is an international attorney, writer and co-founder and Director of Guernica37 International Justice Chambers, Almudena Bernabeu was the director of the Transitional Justice Program at the Center for Justice and Accountability (CJA) until 2017. She is the winner of the 2015 Letelier-Moffitt Human Rights Award.\n\nOriginally trained in her home country of Spain, Bernabeu holds her LLM degree from the University Of Valencia School Of Law and is a member of the Valencia and Madrid Bar Associations, as well as the American Bar Association. Bernabeu is credited with success in more than a dozen high-profile human rights cases, including the Guatemala Genocide case crucial to the recent trial of former president Efraín Ríos Montt. \n\nBernabeu’s work led to Ríos Montt’s 2013 conviction for his part in the slaughter of nearly 2,000 Ixil Mayans in the early 1980s.\n\nIn 2011, her work on that case was featured in the documentary \"Granito: How to Nail a Dictator\".\n\nBernabeu is also the lead prosecutor in the case against Salvadoran officials for the massacre of Jesuit priests in 1989. In that incident, armed members of El Salvador’s military burst into the Jesuit residence at the Universidad Centroamericana in San Salvador and executed six Jesuit priests, a housekeeper and her daughter.\n\nBernabeu’s work was instrumental in securing the 2015 deportation from Florida to El Salvador of Carlos Eugenio Vides Casanova, a former defense minister implicated in “extrajudicial killing and torture” during the Salvadoran Civil War of 1980-1992, according to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.\n\nThe team of lawyers working at G37 Despacho Internacional, together with its London partner Guernica37 International Justice Chambers, have investigated international crimes committed in Syria since March 2011, at the behest of victims’ families, in order to achieve accountability and promote a processes of transitional justice, after the end of hostilities.\n\nOn 31 January 2017, and as result of these investigations, G37 Despacho Internacional filed a complaint before the Spanish National Court against members of Syrian security forces and military intelligence on the basis of their alleged responsibility for the commission of a crime of State terrorism. The complainant -the sister of a Syrian citizen arbitrarily detained, tortured and executed in a detention centre in Damascus- is a victim of Spanish nationality.\n\nIn her acceptance of the 2015 Letelier-Moffitt Human Rights Award, Bernabeu explained her passion for bringing human rights violators to justice:\n\n“I don’t want to take care of the poor or those who have been tortured or those who have been abused… I want this stupid world to stop abusing people…. I want to help the person whose child was disappeared — of course. But my strongest sense of who I am, if I want to be super-honest, is, how can I fight and tell the world that this [expletive] was actually ordering these disappearances and getting rid of these 18-year-old students?”\n\nBernabeu has received several other awards for her international human rights work.\n\n"}
{"id": "52604473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52604473", "title": "American Committee for East–West Accord", "text": "American Committee for East–West Accord\n\nThe American Committee for East–West Accord is the name of two related organizations that have existed during separate periods of American history whose goals have been to promote, in the United States, conciliation with the Soviet Union and, later, the Russian Federation. \n\nThe American Committee for East–West Accord was informally organized in 1974, and chartered three years later, in 1977. Founding members included George F. Kennan, Stephen F. Cohen, Jerome Wiesner, and Theodore Hesburgh.\nThe group, which was composed of businessmen, journalists, academics, and former elected officials, advanced the position that \"common sense\" should determine U.S. trade policy with the USSR, specifically, that the U.S. should avoid economic boycotts and sanctions against the Soviet Union as such measures rarely worked. Instead, it argued, expanding American-Soviet trade would help advance the cause of détente. It also supported the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT), increased scientific and cultural exchanges with the Soviet Union, and less confrontational rhetoric about the USSR.\n\nAccording to the committee, its underlying perspective was support for the \"resolute abandonment of the stale slogans and reflexes of the Cold War ... and a determination not to be governed by the compulsions of military competition\".\n\nOne of the committee's earliest activities was production of the film \"Survival ... or Suicide\" which presented a cinematic treatment of the effects nuclear war would have on daily life.\n\nCohen reestablished the American Committee for East–West Accord in 2015 with the assistance of Gilbert Doctorow. A formal launch event was held in November of that year. In addition to Cohen and Doctorow, other members of the group's board of directors include Donald McHenry, William vanden Heuvel, Bill Bradley, Chuck Hagel, Jack F. Matlock Jr., and John E. Pepper, Jr. Though Doctorow subsequently resigned from the Board to pursue other interests. More recent Board members include Anna Eleanor Roosevelt (the granddaughter of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt) and Sharon Tension.\n\nThe impetus for reforming the committee was, according to its executive editor James Carden, due to its perception that \"anyone who has had the temerity to question whether NATO’s relentless expansion eastward to Russia’s borders has contributed to the crisis [in Ukraine], can look forward to being labeled a 'useful idiot', a 'dupe', or a 'Kremlin apologist'. The trend towards character assassination in lieu of substantive debate has been one of the defining features of the debate over US–Russia policy\".\n\nThe organization was established with the intent of encouraging discussion and debate in the U.S. at a time when the United States has started drifting into a new Cold War with Russia. see: http://jordanrussiacenter.org/event-recaps/american-committee-east-west-accord-encourages-debate-u-s-russian-relations/#.W-G5DK2ZPq0\n\nThe committee has been endorsed by Paul Craig Roberts, though others have criticized the group for what they say is its tendency to \"blame all tensions on the west\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2151", "title": "Anton Drexler", "text": "Anton Drexler\n\nAnton Drexler (13 June 1884 – 24 February 1942) was a German far-right political leader of the 1920s who founded the pan-German and anti-Semitic German Workers' Party (DAP), the antecedent of the Nazi Party (NSDAP). Drexler mentored his successor in the NSDAP, Adolf Hitler, during his early years in politics.\n\nBorn in Munich, Drexler was a machine-fitter before becoming a railway toolmaker and locksmith in Berlin. He joined the German Fatherland Party during World War I. \n\nIn March 1918, Drexler founded a branch of Free Workers' Committee for a Good Peace (\"Der Freie Arbeiterausschuss für einen guten Frieden\") league. Karl Harrer, a journalist and member of the Thule Society, convinced Drexler and several others to form the Political Workers' Circle (\"Politischer Arbeiter-Zirkel\") in 1918. The members met periodically for discussions with themes of nationalism and antisemitism. Drexler was a poet and a member of the völkisch agitators. \n\nTogether with Harrer, Gottfried Feder and Dietrich Eckart, he founded the German Workers' Party (DAP) in Munich on 5 January 1919.\n\nAt a DAP meeting in Munich in September 1919, the main speaker was Gottfried Feder. When Feder's talk concluded, Adolf Hitler got involved in a heated political argument with a visitor, Professor Baumann, who questioned the soundness of Feder's arguments against capitalism and proposed that Bavaria should break away from Prussia and found a new South German nation with Austria. In vehemently attacking the man's arguments, Hitler made an impression on the other party members with his oratory skills, and according to him, the professor left the hall acknowledging defeat. Drexler approached Hitler and gave him a copy of his pamphlet \"My Political Awakening\", which contained anti-Semitic, nationalist, anti-capitalist, and anti-Marxist ideas. Hitler claims the literature reflected the ideals he already believed in. Impressed with Hitler, Drexler encouraged him to join the DAP. On the orders of his army superiors, Hitler applied to join the party.\n\nOnce accepted, Hitler began to make the party more public, and he organized their biggest meeting yet of 2,000 people, for 24 February 1920 in the Hofbräuhaus in Munich. It was in this speech that Hitler, for the first time, enunciated the twenty-five points of the \"German Worker's Party\"'s manifesto that he had authored with Drexler and Feder. Through these points he gave the organisation a much bolder stratagem with a clear foreign policy, including the abrogation of the Treaty of Versailles, a Greater Germany, Eastern expansion, exclusion of Jews from citizenship. On the same day the party was renamed the National Socialist German Workers' Party (\"Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\"; NSDAP). The significance of this particular move in publicity moved Karl Harrer to resign from the party in disagreement.\n\nFollowing an intraparty dispute, Hitler angrily tendered his resignation on 11 July 1921. The committee members realised that the resignation of their leading public figure and speaker would mean the end of the party. Hitler announced he would rejoin on the condition that he would replace Drexler as party chairman, and that the party headquarters would remain in Munich. The committee agreed; he rejoined the party as member 3,680. Drexler was thereafter moved to the purely symbolic position of honorary president and left the party in 1923.\n\nDrexler was also a member of a \"völkisch\" political club for affluent members of Munich society known as the Thule Society. His membership in the Nazi Party ended when it was temporarily outlawed in 1923 following the Beer Hall Putsch despite Drexler not actually having taken part in the coup attempt. In 1924 he was elected to the Bavarian state parliament for another party, in which he served as vice president until 1928. He played no role in the Nazi Party's re-founding in 1925 and rejoined only after Hitler ascended to national power in 1933. He founded a splinter group, the \"Nationalsozialer Volksbund\", but this dissolved in 1928. He received the party's Blood Order in 1934 and was still occasionally used as a propaganda tool until about 1937, but he was never allowed any legitimate power in the party.\n\nDrexler died in Munich in February 1942.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8589739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8589739", "title": "Ariranga Pillay", "text": "Ariranga Pillay\n\nAriranga Govindasamy Pillay (Tamil: அரி ரங்க கோவிந்தசாமி பிள்ளை; born 14 June 1945) was the Chief Justice of Mauritius from 1996 until 2007, when he was succeeded by Y. K. J. Yeung Sik Yuen.\n\nHe studied Economics and Political Science at the London School of Economics and Political Science from 1966 to 1969, gaining a B.Sc (Econ) degree, after which he studied law at Merton College, Oxford, graduating in 1971 with a B.A in Jurisprudence. He was called to the bar at Lincoln’s Inn, London in 1972. On his return to Mauritius he practised law and worked as a legal adviser to the Attorney General’s Office and Ministry of Justice in Mauritius until 1987. He held numerous appointments, among others Principal Crown Counsel, Assistant Solicitor General and Parliamentary Counsel at the Attorney General's office and Ministry of Justice.\n\nHe was appointed Puisne Judge and later, Acting Senior Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of Mauritius from 1987 to 1996. On 1 May 1996 he was appointed the Chief Justice of Mauritius, retiring on 13 June 2007. In November 2001, he was elected as an Honorary Bencher of Lincoln's Inn.\n\nHe is the Chairman of the Judicial and Legal Service Commission of Mauritius. He is also a member of the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights since 1997 as well as the appointed Adviser to the Governing Council of the African Centre for Democracy and Human Rights Studies.\n"}
{"id": "3133969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3133969", "title": "Article 153 of the Constitution of Malaysia", "text": "Article 153 of the Constitution of Malaysia\n\nArticle 153 of the Constitution of Malaysia grants the Yang di-Pertuan Agong (King of Malaysia) responsibility for “safeguard[ing] the special position of Malaysians and natives of any of the States of Sabah and Sarawak and the legitimate interests of other communities” and goes on to specify ways to do this, such as establishing quotas for entry into the civil service, public scholarships and public education.\n\nArticle 153 is one of the most controversial articles in the Malaysian constitution. Critics consider it to create an unnecessary and racialist distinction between Malaysians of different ethnic backgrounds, because it has led to the implementation of affirmative action policies which benefit only the Bumiputra, who comprise a majority of the population. Technically, discussing the repeal of Article 153 is illegal—even in Parliament, although it was drafted as a temporary provision to the Constitution. Despite this prohibition on discussion, the article is heatedly debated both privately and publicly among Malaysians, against the implementation of the article although ostensibly maintaining support for it. Nevertheless, the article is viewed as a sensitive matter by many, with politicians who are in favour or oppose it often being labelled as racist.\n\nThe article is primarily seen as a continuation of previous laws made by the British to protect the indigenous peoples from being overwhelmed by the immigration of Chinese and Indian workers into Malaya. In the years after independence in 1957, the Chinese and Indians were generally rich urban dwellers, whilst the Bumiputra were mostly poor farmers or manual labourers.\n\nThe first clause of the article provides that the government should act \"in accordance with the provisions of this Article\".\n\nThe Constitution was drafted on the basis of a report from the Reid Commission. The commission, which had been formed to lay the groundwork for a Constitution in the run-up to Malaysia's pending independence, released the report in 1957 as the Report of the Federation of Malaya Constitutional Commission 1957 or The Reid Commission Report. In the report, the Reid Commission stated that \"\"provision should be made in the Constitution for the 'safeguarding of the special position of the Malays and the legitimate interests of the other Communities'.\" However, the Commission \"found it difficult [...] to reconcile the terms of reference if the protection of the special position of the Malays signified the granting of special privileges, permanently, to one community only and not to the others.\"\"\n\nThe Reid Commission reported that Tunku Abdul Rahman and the Malay Rulers had asked that \"\"in an independent Malaya all nationals should be accorded equal rights, privileges and opportunities and there must not be discrimination on grounds of race and creed.\" At that time, Tunku Abdul Rahman was the leader of the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), which led the \"Alliance\" coalition. Eventually the Alliance would become the Barisan Nasional and Tunku Abdul Rahman later became the first Prime Minister of Malaysia. When succeeding to the UMNO Presidency, Tunku had expressed doubts about the loyalty of the non-Malays to Malaya, and as a result, insisted that this be settled before they be granted citizenship. However, he also stated that \"For those who love and feel they owe undivided loyalty to this country, we will welcome them as Malayans. They must truly be Malayans, and they will have the same rights and privileges as the Malays.\"\n\nThe Commission found the existing privileges accorded to the Malays included the allocation of extensive Malay land reservations. In addition, the Commission discovered quotas for admission to the public services with a general rule that \"not more than one-quarter of new entrants [to a particular service] should be non-Malays.\" Operation quotas existed in regard to the issuing of permits or licences for the operation of certain businesses \"chiefly concerned with road haulage and passenger vehicles for hire.\"\" In addition, there existed \"scholarships, bursaries and other forms of aid for educational purpose\" where preference was given to Malays.\n\nAlthough the Commission reported it did not find opposition to the continuance of the existing privileges for a certain length of time, it stated that \"\"there was great opposition in some quarters to any increase of the present preferences and to their being continued for any prolonged period.\" The Commission recommended that the existing privileges should be continued as the \"Malays would be at a serious and unfair disadvantage compared with other communities if they were suddenly withdrawn.\" However, \"in due course the present preferences should be reduced and should ultimately cease.\"\" The Commission suggested that these provisions be revisited in 15 years, and that a report should be presented to the appropriate legislature (currently the Parliament of Malaysia) and that the \"legislature should then determine either to retain or to reduce any quota or to discontinue it entirely.\"\n\nOriginally there was no reference made to other indigenous peoples of Malaysia (then Malaya) such as the Orang Asli, but with the union of Malaya with Singapore, Sabah and Sarawak in 1963, the Constitution was amended so as to provide similar privileges for the indigenous peoples of East Malaysia (Sabah and Sarawak), grouping them with the Malays as Bumiputra.\n\nThe 20-point agreement, or the 20-point memorandum, is a list of 20 points drawn up by North Borneo, proposing terms for its incorporation into the new federation as the State of Sabah, during negotiations prior to the formation of Malaysia. In the Malaysia Bill of the Malaysia Agreement some of the twenty points were incorporated, to varying degrees, into what became the Constitution of Malaysia; others were merely accepted orally, thus not gaining legal status. In principle the indigenous races of North Borneo should enjoy special rights analogous to those enjoyed by Malays in Malaya, but the present Malaya formula in this regard is not necessarily applicable in North Borneo.\n\nThe scope of Article 153 is limited by Article 136, which requires that civil servants be treated impartially regardless of race.\n\nAlthough the Bumiputra have always been the largest racial segment of the Malaysian population (about 65%), their economic position has also tended to be precarious. As late as 1970, 13 years after the drafting of the constitution, they controlled only 4% of the economy, with much of the rest being held by Chinese and foreign interests. As a result, the Reid Commission had recommended the drafting of Article 153 to address this economic imbalance.\n\nBut there continued to exist substantial political opposition to the economic reforms designed to aid the Malays. Some contended that Article 153 appeared to unduly privilege the Bumiputra as a higher class of Malaysian citizenry. Many Chinese and Indians also felt unfairly treated since some of them had been there for generations - since the mid-19th century - and yet until the late 1950s, they still had not been awarded Malaysian citizenship. However, a majority of the Malays during that time believed that the Chinese and the Indians came to Malaya for economic purposes only, working at plantations and mines.\n\nIn the 1970s, substantial economic reforms (Malaysian New Economic Policy) were enacted to address the economic imbalance. In the 1980s and 1990s, more affirmative action was also implemented to create a Malay class of entrepreneurs. Public opposition to such policies appeared to wither away after the rioting of May 1969, with parties running on a platform of reducing Bumiputra privileges losing ground in Parliamentary elections. However, in the first decade of the 21st century, debate was revived when several government politicians made controversial statements on the nature of Malay privileges as set out by Article 153.\n\nThe article has been a source of controversy since the early days of Malaysia. In particular, it was not entirely clear if Article 153 was predicated on the Malays' economic status at the time, or if it was meant to recognise Bumiputra as a special class of citizens. Some took the latter view, like Singaporean politician Lee Kuan Yew of the People's Action Party (PAP), who publicly questioned the need for Article 153 in Parliament, and called for a \"Malaysian Malaysia\". In a speech, Lee bemoaned what would later be described as the Malaysian social contract:\n\n\"According to history, Malays began to migrate to Malaysia in noticeable numbers only about 700 years ago. Of the 39% Malays in Malaysia today, about one-third are comparatively new immigrants like the secretary-general of UMNO, Dato' Syed Ja'afar Albar, who came to Malaya from Indonesia just before the war at the age of more than thirty. Therefore it is wrong and illogical for a particular racial group to think that they are more justified to be called Malaysians and that the others can become Malaysian only through their favour.\"\n\nLee also criticised the government's policies by stating that \"[t]hey, the Malay, have the right as Malaysian citizens to go up to the level of training and education that the more competitive societies, the non-Malay society, has produced. That is what must be done, isn't it? Not to feed them with this obscurantist doctrine that all they have got to do is to get Malay rights for the few special Malays and their problem has been resolved.\" He also lamented \"Malaysia—to whom does it belong? To Malaysians. But who are Malaysians? I hope I am, Mr Speaker, Sir. But sometimes, sitting in this chamber, I doubt whether I am allowed to be a Malaysian.\"\n\nLee's statements upset many, especially politicians from the Alliance. Then Finance Minister Tan Siew Sin called Lee the \"greatest, disruptive force in the entire history of Malaysia and Malaya.\" The Tunku considered Lee to be too extremist in his views, while other UMNO politicians thought Lee was simply taking advantage of the situation to pander to the Chinese Malaysians. PAP-UMNO relations were chilled further when UMNO officials publicly backed the opposition Singapore Alliance Party in Singapore's 1963 general election and PAP responded in turn by fielding several candidates in the Malaysian federal elections in 1964. These acts were seen by each party as challenges of the other's authority in their respective domains, and in violation of previous agreements made by the PAP and UMNO before merger not to contest each other's elections until Malaysia had matured enough. The tension led to the 1964 racial riots in Singapore that killed 36 people. Eventually, the Tunku decided to ask Singapore, through Lee and some of his closest confidantes, to secede from Malaysia. Eventually, Lee (reluctantly) agreed to do so, and Singapore became an independent nation in 1965, with Lee as its first Prime Minister. The Constitution of Singapore contains an article, Article 152, that names the Malays as \"indigenous people\" of Singapore and therefore requiring special safeguarding of their rights and privileges as such. However, the article specifies no policies for such safeguarding.\n\nOn 13 May 1969, a few days after the 10 May general election, a race riot broke out. In the preceding election, parties like the Democratic Action Party (DAP, formerly the Malaysian branch of the PAP) and Parti Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia, which opposed special Bumiputra privileges, had made substantial gains, coming close to defeating the Alliance and forming a new government. The largely Chinese opposition Democratic Action Party and Gerakan later secured a police permit for a victory parade through a fixed route in Kuala Lumpur, the capital city of Malaysia. However, the rowdy procession deviated from its route and headed through the Malay district of Kampung Baru, jeering at the inhabitants. While the Gerakan party issued an apology the next day, UMNO announced a counter-procession starting from the head of Selangor state Dato' Harun bin Idris on Jalan Raja Muda. Reportedly, the gathering crowd was informed that Malays on their way to the procession had been attacked by Chinese in Setapak, several miles to the north. The angry protestors swiftly wreaked revenge by killing two passing Chinese motorcyclists, and the riot began. The official death toll was approximately 200, although some would later estimate it to be as high as 2000. The riot was later attributed to the underlying discontent among Malays due to poverty.\n\nUMNO Parliamentary backbencher Mahathir Mohamad soon became the face of a movement against the Tunku, arguing that he had been too accommodative towards the non-Malays. In a letter to the Prime Minister, demanding his resignation, Mahathir argued that the Tunku had given the Chinese \"too much face\" and that the responsibility for the deaths of the people in the riot rested squarely on the Tunku's shoulders. Mahathir was expelled from UMNO not long after, and Home Affairs Minister Ismail Abdul Rahman warned that \"[t]hese ultras believe in the wild and fantastic theory of absolute dominion by one race over the other communities, regardless of the Constitution\".\n\nThe government suspended Parliament and the executive branch governed on its own through the National Operations Council (NOC) until 1971. The NOC proposed amendments to the Sedition Act that made illegal the questioning of, among others, Article 153. These amendments were passed by Parliament as law when it reconvened in 1971.\n\nDuring the period of NOC governance, the Malaysian New Economic Policy (NEP) was implemented. The NEP aimed to eradicate poverty irrespective of race by expanding the economic pie so that the Chinese share of the economy would not be reduced in absolute terms but only relatively. The aim was for the Malays to have a 30% equity share of the economy, as opposed to the 4% they held in 1970. Foreigners and Chinese held much of the rest. The NEP appeared to be derived from Article 153 and could be viewed as being in line with its wording. Although Article 153 would have been up for review in 1972, fifteen years after Malaysia's independence in 1957, due to the May 13 Incident it remained unreviewed. A new expiration date of 1991 for the NEP was set, twenty years after its implementation.\n\nMahathir, who had been a strong supporter of affirmative action for the Malays since the late 1960s, expounded upon his views in his book \"The Malay Dilemma\" while in political exile. The book argued that stronger measures were needed to improve the Malays' economic lot. It also contended that the Malays were the \"definitive\" people and thus \"rightful owners\" of Malaysia, which also entitled them to their privileges but he also criticized the Malays for being \"easily forgetful\". Mahathir was rehabilitated under the second Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak, and was appointed as the Deputy of the third Prime Minister, Tun Hussein Onn. When Hussein Onn resigned, Mahathir became Prime Minister.\n\nDuring Mahathir's tenure as Prime Minister, the NEP, after its expiry, was replaced by the National Development Policy (NDP), that sought to create a Malay class of entrepreneurs and business tycoons. However, allegations of corruption and nepotism plagued Mahathir's administration, and Mahathir's goal of creating a new class of Malay tycoons was criticised for ignoring the rural Malays, who comprised the majority of the Malay population. Under Mahathir, quotas for entry into public universities were enforced, with some universities such as Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) admitting only Bumiputra students. In 1998, then Education Minister Najib Tun Razak (son of Tun Abdul Razak who implemented the NEP) stated that without quotas, only 5% of undergraduates in public universities would be Malays. Najib argued this justified the need for the continuance of quotas.\n\nThese policies also mandate that publicly listed companies must set aside 30% of equity for Bumiputras; discounts that must be provided for automobile and real estate purchases; a set amount of lots set aside for Bumiputras in housing projects; companies submitting bids for government projects be Bumiputra-owned and that Approved Permits (APs) for importing automobiles be preferentially given to Bumiputras. The equity in the publicly listed companies is disbursed by the Trade Ministry, and sold to selected Bumiputras at substantial discounts. However, the recipients frequently sell their stake in the companies immediately. The policies continued the Bumiputra advantage in higher education. In practice, however, most of these privileges went to Malays, and non-Malay Bumiputras, like the Orang Asli or aboriginal peoples, did not appear to have benefited much from Article 153 or policies such as the NEP.\n\nIn 2003, Mahathir began stressing that Malays needed to abandon their \"crutches,\" and implemented a policy of \"meritocracy\". However, this policy by and large streams Bumiputras into what is termed matriculation, as a prelude to university admission, whereby students take a course and later sit for a test set by the instructor. The non-Bumiputras generally sit for the Sijil Tinggi Pelajaran Malaysia (STPM) standardised examination to enter university. Although it is possible for non-Bumiputras to enter matriculation, and Bumiputras who prefer to take the STPM may do so, in practice, it is difficult for non-Bumiputras to gain entry into the matriculation stream.\n\nThe meritocracy policy itself came in for criticism from both sides of the political divide, with some quarters of UMNO calling it \"discrimination,\" leading to an \"uneven playing field,\" and asked for the restoration of the quota system that set the ratio of Bumiputra to non-Bumiputra students in public institutions at 55 to 45. Others, however, branded meritocracy as a sham due to its division of students into the two different streams.\n\nIn 2003, Mahathir was succeeded by Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, who, like his predecessor, warned the Malays that over-reliance on their privileges would be fatal. \"A continuing reliance on crutches will further enfeeble [the nation], and we may eventually end up in wheelchairs.\" However, within UMNO, some, such as Education Minister Hishamuddin bin Hussein - Hussein Onn's son, and UMNO Deputy Permanent Chairman Badruddin Amiruldin, appeared to disagree and in turn argued for the protection of Malay privileges.\n\nIn 2005, several Malays, led by Hishamuddin at the UMNO Annual General Meeting (AGM) argued that the 30% equity target of the NEP had yet to be met and called on the government to restore the NEP as the New National Agenda (NNA). At the past year's AGM, Badruddin had warned questioning Article 153 and \"Malay rights\" would be akin to stirring up a hornet's nest, and declared, \"Let no one from the other races ever question the rights of Malays on this land.\" The year before, UMNO Youth Information Chief Azmi Daim had also said, \"In Malaysia, everybody knows that Malays are the masters of this land. We rule this country as provided for in the federal constitution. Any one who touches upon Malay affairs or criticizes Malays is [offending] our sensitivities.\"\n\nAt the 2005 AGM, Hishamuddin brandished the traditional Malay dagger, the \"kris\", while warning the non-Bumiputras not to attack Malay rights and \"ketuanan Melayu\" (translated variously as Malay supremacy or dominance). His action was applauded by the UMNO delegates. Then Higher Education Minister Shafie Salleh also stated that he would ensure the amount of new Malay students admitted would always exceed the old quotas set, and that UiTM would remain an all-Bumiputra institution.\n\nAt present, the Bumiputra privileges both enshrined in Article 153 and as set out by other acts of law, remain in force. Many opposition parties including, the DAP and Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR), have pledged themselves to undoing the NEP. The DAP has argued that it does not have anything against the special position of Bumiputras as set out in Article 153, but seeks to undo the government's policies such as the NEP that they believe discriminate unfairly against the non-Bumiputras. The PKR, which was founded to fight for the release of former Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim, who had been detained for charges of corruption and sodomy after he publicly opposed Mahathir's policies, also has criticised the NEP. After Anwar's release in 2004, he criticised the NEP as having failed the Malays and stated that he would seek its replacement by a more equitable policy.\n\nThe NEP and other privileges accorded to the Bumiputras or Malays under Article 153 have been noted for not explicitly seeking to eradicate poverty among the Malays, but instead largely aiming to improve the Malays' overall share of the economy, even if this share is held by a small number of Malays. However, the NEP has also been defended as having been largely successful in creating a Malay middle class and improving Malaysian standards of living without compromising the non-Bumiputra share of the economy in absolute terms; indeed, statistics indicate that the Chinese and Indian middle classes also grew under the NEP, albeit not as much as the Malays'. It has also been contended that the NEP defused racial tensions by eradicating the perception of the Chinese as the mercantile class and the perception of the Malays as mere farmers.\n\nArticle 10 (4) of the Constitution permits Parliament to make it illegal to question, among others, Article 153 of the Constitution. Under the Sedition Act, questioning Article 153 is indeed illegal—even for Members of Parliament, who usually have the freedom to discuss anything without fear of external censure. The government can also arbitrarily detain anyone it desires theoretically for sixty days, but in reality for an undetermined length of time, under the Internal Security Act (ISA). In 1987 under Operation Lalang (literally \"weeding operation\"), several leaders of the DAP, including Lim Kit Siang and Karpal Singh, were held under the ISA. It is widely believed this was due to their calling for the NEP and other Malay privileges to be reviewed. Others have questioned the constitutionality of the NEP.\n\nIn 2005, the issue of the Constitution and its provisions was also brought up by several politicians within the government itself. Lim Keng Yaik of the Gerakan party, which by now had joined Barisan Nasional, the ruling coalition, asked for a re-examination of the social contract so that a Bangsa Malaysia (literally 'Malaysian race' or 'Malaysian nation' in the Malay language) could be achieved. The social contract is the Constitution's provisions with regard to the different races' privileges—those who defend it and Article 153 often define the social contract as providing the Indians and Chinese with citizenship in exchange for the Malays' special rights or \"ketuanan Melayu\".\n\nLim was severely criticised by many Malay politicians, including Khairy Jamaluddin, the Prime Minister's son-in-law and Deputy Chairman of the UMNO Youth wing, and Ahmad Shabery Cheek, a prominent Malay Member of Parliament from the state of Terengganu. The Malay press, most of which is owned by UMNO, also ran articles condemning the questioning of the social contract. Lim was adamant, asking in an interview \"How do you expect non-Malays to pour their hearts and souls into the country, and to one day die for it if you keep harping on this? Flag-waving and singing the 'Negaraku' \"(the national anthem)\" are rituals, while true love for the nation lies in the heart.\"\n\nA year earlier, Abdullah had given a speech where he mentioned the most \"significant aspect\" of the social contract as \"the agreement by the indigenous peoples to grant citizenship to the immigrant Chinese and Indians\". Although Abdullah went on to state that the character of the nation changed to \"one that Chinese and Indian citizens could also call their own,\" the speech went largely unremarked.\n\nIn the end, Lim stated that the Malay press had blown his comments out of proportion and misquoted him. The issue ended with UMNO Youth chief Hishamuddin Hussein warning people not to \"bring up the issue again as it has been agreed upon, appreciated, understood and endorsed by the Constitution.\"\n\nThe two diagrams below summarise the provisions of Article 153. The first shows how Article 153 deals with the special position of Malays and the natives of Sabah and Sarawak (collectively, \"bumiputras\") and the second shows how it deals with the legitimate interests of the other communities.\n\nDiagram 1: Special Position of Bumiputras\n\nDiagram 2: Legitimate Interests of Other Communities\n\n\nTerms used in Article 153 to categorise people (‘Malays’, ‘natives’) are defined in Articles 160 ( · Malay) and 161a ( · Malay). Perhaps unintuitively, only “a person who professes the religion of Islam” may be a ‘Malay’ (\"orang Melayu\") in the sense of the constitution (for other contexts, see the article at Malays (ethnic group)). This restriction, if not those about “conform[ing] to Malay custom” and “habitually speak[ing] the Malay language”, would seem to affect many Orang Asli, a group defined in Article 160 but not mentioned in Article 153. The term \"bumiputera\" is neither used nor defined in the constitution.\n"}
{"id": "23121545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23121545", "title": "BJP Kisan Morcha", "text": "BJP Kisan Morcha\n\nBJP Kisan Morcha is the farmers wing of Bharatiya Janata Party.\n\nHarayana politician Om Prakash Dhankar has been twice elected as BJP Kisan Morcha, National President (2011-2013) and (2013-2015). Satyapal Malik is in-charge of BJP Kisan Morcha. On 3 July 2015, Vijay Pal Singh Tomar was appointed President of BJP Kisan Morcha. Sukhminderpal Grewal is national secretary of BJP Kisan Morcha.\n\n"}
{"id": "1128335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128335", "title": "Barracks communism", "text": "Barracks communism\n\nBarracks communism () is the term coined by Karl Marx to refer to a \"crude\", authoritarian, forced collectivism and communism, where all aspects of life are bureaucratically regimented and communal. Originally, Marx used the expression to criticise the vision of Sergey Nechayev, outlined in the \"Fundamentals of the Future Social System\". Although, significantly, he did not deny that it was a valid form of communism.\n\nThe term \"barracks\" here does not refer to military barracks, but to the workers' barracks-type primitive dormitories in which industrial workers lived in many places in the Russian Empire of the time.\n\nLater, political theorists of the Soviet Union applied this term to the People's Republic of China under Mao Zedong (1950s–1970s). Still later during the Soviet Perestroika period, the term was used to apply to the history of the Soviet Union itself.. In general the term with its original meaning can be applied to any form of communism, although communists themselves use it to stigmatise rival visions of communism, and as a scapegoat to the failings of their own.\n\nA relevant section of Sergey Nechayev's \"The Fundamentals of the Future Social System\" reads as follows: The ending of the existing social order and the renewal of life with the aid of the new principles can be accomplished only by concentrating all the means of social existence in the hands of our committee, and the proclamation of compulsory physical labour for everyone.\n\nThe committee, as soon as the present institutions have been overthrown, proclaims that everything is common property, orders the setting up of workers' societies” (\"artels\") and at the same time publishes statistical tables compiled by experts and pointing out what branches of labour are most needed in a certain locality and what branches may run into difficulties there.\n\nFor a certain number of days assigned for the revolutionary upheaval and the disorders that are bound to follow, each person must join one or another of these artels according to his own choice... All those who remain isolated and unattached to workers' groups without sufficient reason will have no right of access either to the communal eating places or to the communal dormitories, or to any other buildings assigned to meet the various needs of the brother-workers or that contain the goods and materials, the victuals or tools reserved for all members of the established workers' society; in a word, he who without sufficient reason has not joined an artel, will be left without means of subsistence. All the roads, all the means of communication will be closed to him; he will have no other alternative but work or death.\n\nIn their International Alliance of Socialist Democracy and the International Workingmen's Association, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels quote the above text and comment as follows: What a beautiful model of barracks communism! Here you have it all: communal eating, communal sleeping, assessors and offices regulating education, production, consumption, in a word, all social activity, and to crown all, Our Committee, anonymous and unknown to anyone, as the supreme dictator. This indeed is the purest anti-authoritarianism...\n\n"}
{"id": "20949522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20949522", "title": "Bureaucracy", "text": "Bureaucracy\n\nBureaucracy () refers to both a body of non-elective government officials and an administrative policy-making group. Historically, a bureaucracy was a government administration managed by departments staffed with non-elected officials. Today, bureaucracy is the administrative system governing any large institution, whether publicly owned or privately owned. The public administration in many countries is an example of a bureaucracy, but so is the centralized hierarchical structure of a business firm.\n\nSince being coined, the word \"bureaucracy\" has developed negative connotations. Bureaucracies have been criticized as being inefficient, convoluted, or too inflexible to individuals. The dehumanizing effects of excessive bureaucracy became a major theme in the work of German-language writer Franz Kafka (1883–1924) and are central to his novels \"The Trial\" and \"The Castle\". The 1985 dystopian film \"Brazil\" by Terry Gilliam portrays a world in which small, otherwise insignificant errors in the bureaucratic processes of government develop into maddening and tragic consequences. The elimination of unnecessary bureaucracy is a key concept in modern managerial theory and has been an issue in some political campaigns.\n\nSome commentators have noted the necessity of bureaucracies in modern society. The German sociologist Max Weber argued that bureaucracy constitutes the most efficient and rational way in which one can organize the human activity and that systematic processes and organized hierarchies are necessary to maintain order, maximize efficiency, and eliminate favoritism. On the other hand, Weber also saw unfettered bureaucracy as a threat to individual freedom, with the potential of trapping individuals in an impersonal \"iron cage\" of rule-based, rational control.\n\nThe term \"bureaucracy\" is French in origin and combines the French word \"bureau\" – desk or office – with the Greek word κράτος (\"Kratos\") – rule or political power. It was coined in the mid-18th century by the French economist Jacques Claude Marie Vincent de Gournay and was a satirical pejorative from the outset. Gournay never wrote the term down but was later quoted at length in a letter from a contemporary:\nThe first known English-language use dates to 1818. Here, too, the sense was pejorative, with Irish novelist Lady Morgan referring to \"the Bureaucratie, or office tyranny, by which Ireland has so long been governed.\" By the mid-19th century, the word was being used in a more neutral sense, referring to a system of public administration in which offices were held by unelected career officials. In this sense \"bureaucracy\" was seen as a distinct form of management, often subservient to a monarchy. In the 1920s, the definition was expanded by the German sociologist Max Weber to include any system of administration conducted by trained professionals according to fixed rules. Weber saw the bureaucracy as a relatively positive development; however, by 1944 the Austrian economist Ludwig von Mises noted that the term bureaucracy was \"always applied with an opprobrious connotation,\" and by 1957 the American sociologist Robert Merton noted that the term \"bureaucrat\" had become an epithet.\n\nAlthough the term \"bureaucracy\" was not coined until the mid 18th century, organized and consistent administrative systems are much older. The development of writing (ca. 3500 BC) and the use of documents was critical to the administration of this system, and the first definitive emergence of bureaucracy is in ancient Sumer, where an emergent class of scribes used clay tablets to administer the harvest and allocate its spoils. Ancient Egypt also had a hereditary class of scribes that administered the civil service bureaucracy.\n\nThe Roman Empire was administered by a hierarchy of regional proconsuls and their deputies. The reforms of Diocletian doubled the number of administrative districts and led to a large-scale expansion of Roman bureaucracy. The early Christian author Lactantius claimed that Diocletian's reforms led to widespread economic stagnation, since \"the provinces were divided into minute portions, and many presidents and a multitude of inferior officers lay heavy on each territory.\" After the Empire split, the Byzantine Empire developed a notoriously complicated administrative hierarchy, and in time the term \"Byzantine\" came to refer to any complex bureaucratic structure.\n\nIn Ancient China, the Han dynasty established a complicated bureaucracy based on the teachings of Confucius, who emphasized the importance of ritual in a family, relationships, and politics. With each subsequent Dynasty, the bureaucracy evolved. During the Song dynasty, the bureaucracy became meritocratic. Following the Song reforms, competitive exams were held to determine who was qualified to hold a given position. The imperial examination system lasted until 1905, six years before the collapse of the Qing dynasty, marking the end of China's traditional bureaucratic system.\n\nA modern form of bureaucracy evolved in the expanding Department of Excise in the United Kingdom during the 18th century. The relative efficiency and professionalism in this state-run authority allowed the government to impose a very large tax burden on the population and raise great sums of money for war expenditure. According to Niall Ferguson, the bureaucracy was based on \"recruitment by examination, training, promotion on merit, regular salaries and pensions, and standardized procedures\". The system was subject to a strict hierarchy and emphasis was placed on technical and efficient methods for tax collection.\n\nInstead of the inefficient and often corrupt system of tax farming that prevailed in absolutist states such as France, the Exchequer was able to exert control over the entire system of tax revenue and government expenditure. By the late 18th century, the ratio of fiscal bureaucracy to population in Britain was approximately 1 in 1300, almost four times larger than the second most heavily bureaucratized nation, France. Thomas Taylor Meadows, Britain's consul in Guangzhou, argued in his \"Desultory Notes on the Government and People of China\" (1847) that \"the long duration of the Chinese empire is solely and altogether owing to the good government which consists in the advancement of men of talent and merit only,\" and that the British must reform their civil service by making the institution meritocratic. Influenced by the ancient Chinese imperial examination, the Northcote–Trevelyan Report of 1854 recommended that recruitment should be on the basis of merit determined through competitive examination, candidates should have a solid general education to enable inter-departmental transfers, and promotion should be through achievement rather than \"preferment, patronage, or purchase\". This led to implementation of Her Majesty's Civil Service as a systematic, meritocratic civil service bureaucracy.\n\nLike the British, the development of French bureaucracy was influenced by the Chinese system. Under Louis XIV of France, the old nobility had neither power nor political influence, their only privilege being exemption from taxes. The dissatisfied noblemen complained about this \"unnatural\" state of affairs, and discovered similarities between absolute monarchy and bureaucratic despotism. With the translation of Confucian texts during the Enlightenment, the concept of a meritocracy reached intellectuals in the West, who saw it as an alternative to the traditional \"ancien regime\" of Europe. Western perception of China even in the 18th century admired the Chinese bureaucratic system as favourable over European governments for its seeming meritocracy; Voltaire claimed that the Chinese had \"perfected moral science\" and François Quesnay advocated an economic and political system modeled after that of the Chinese.\nThe governments of China, Egypt, Peru and Empress Catherine II were regarded as models of Enlightened Despotism, admired by such figures as Diderot, D'Alembert and Voltaire.\n\nNapoleonic France adopted this meritocracy system and soon saw a rapid and dramatic expansion of government, accompanied by the rise of the French civil service and its complex systems of bureaucracy. This phenomenon became known as \"bureaumania\". In the early 19th century, Napoleon attempted to reform the bureaucracies of France and other territories under his control by the imposition of the standardized Napoleonic Code. But paradoxically, that led to even further growth of the bureaucracy.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, bureaucratic forms of administration were firmly in place across the industrialized world. Thinkers like John Stuart Mill and Karl Marx began to theorize about the economic functions and power-structures of bureaucracy in contemporary life. Max Weber was the first to endorse bureaucracy as a necessary feature of modernity, and by the late 19th century bureaucratic forms had begun their spread from government to other large-scale institutions.\n\nThe trend toward increased bureaucratization continued in the 20th century, with the public sector employing over 5% of the workforce in many Western countries. Within capitalist systems, informal bureaucratic structures began to appear in the form of corporate power hierarchies, as detailed in mid-century works like \"The Organization Man\" and \"The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit\". Meanwhile, in the Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc nations, a powerful class of bureaucratic administrators termed \"nomenklatura\" governed nearly all aspects of public life.\n\nThe 1980s brought a backlash against perceptions of \"big government\" and the associated bureaucracy. Politicians like Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan gained power by promising to eliminate government regulatory bureaucracies, which they saw as overbearing, and return economic production to a more purely capitalistic mode, which they saw as more efficient. In the business world, managers like Jack Welch gained fortune and renown by eliminating bureaucratic structures inside corporations. Still, in the modern world, most organized institutions rely on bureaucratic systems to manage information, process records, and administer complex systems, although the decline of paperwork and the widespread use of electronic databases is transforming the way bureaucracies function.\n\nKarl Marx theorized about the role and function of bureaucracy in his \"Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right\", published in 1843. In \"Philosophy of Right\", Hegel had supported the role of specialized officials in public administration, although he never used the term \"bureaucracy\" himself. Marx, by contrast, was opposed to bureaucracy. Marx posited that while corporate and government bureaucracy seem to operate in opposition, in actuality they mutually rely on one another to exist. He wrote that \"The Corporation is civil society's attempt to become state; but the bureaucracy is the state which has really made itself into civil society.\"\n\nWriting in the early 1860s, political scientist John Stuart Mill theorized that successful monarchies were essentially bureaucracies, and found evidence of their existence in Imperial China, the Russian Empire, and the regimes of Europe. Mill referred to bureaucracy as a distinct form of government, separate from representative democracy. He believed bureaucracies had certain advantages, most importantly the accumulation of experience in those who actually conduct the affairs. Nevertheless, he believed this form of governance compared poorly to representative government, as it relied on appointment rather than direct election. Mill wrote that ultimately the bureaucracy stifles the mind, and that \"a bureaucracy always tends to become a pedantocracy.\"\n\nThe German sociologist Max Weber was the first to formally study bureaucracy and his works led to the popularization of this term. In his 1922 essay \"Bureaucracy\", published in his magnum opus \"Economy and Society\", Weber described many ideal-typical forms of public administration, government, and business. His ideal-typical bureaucracy, whether public or private, is characterized by:\n\nWeber listed several preconditions for the emergence of bureaucracy, including an increase in the amount of space and population being administered, an increase in the complexity of the administrative tasks being carried out, and the existence of a monetary economy requiring a more efficient administrative system. Development of communication and transportation technologies make more efficient administration possible, and democratization and rationalization of culture results in demands for equal treatment.\n\nAlthough he was not necessarily an admirer of bureaucracy, Weber saw bureaucratization as the most efficient and rational way of organizing human activity and therefore as the key to rational-legal authority, indispensable to the modern world. Furthermore, he saw it as the key process in the ongoing rationalization of Western society. Weber also saw bureaucracy, however, as a threat to individual freedoms, and the ongoing bureaucratization as leading to a \"polar night of icy darkness\", in which increasing rationalization of human life traps individuals in a soulless \"iron cage\" of bureaucratic, rule-based, rational control. Weber's critical study of the bureaucratization of society became one of the most enduring parts of his work. Many aspects of modern public administration are based on his work, and a classic, hierarchically organized civil service of the Continental type is called \"Weberian civil service\".\n\nWriting as an academic while a professor at Bryn Mawr College, Woodrow Wilson's essay \"The Study of Administration\" argued for bureaucracy as a professional cadre, devoid of allegiance to fleeting politics. Wilson advocated a bureaucracy that \"is a part of political life only as the methods of the counting house are a part of the life of society; only as machinery is part of the manufactured product. But it is, at the same time, raised very far above the dull level of mere technical detail by the fact that through its greater principles it is directly connected with the lasting maxims of political wisdom, the permanent truths of political progress.\"\n\nWilson did not advocate a replacement of rule by the governed, he simply advised that, \"Administrative questions are not political questions. Although politics sets the tasks for administration, it should not be suffered to manipulate its offices\". This essay became a foundation for the study of public administration in America.\n\nIn his 1944 work \"Bureaucracy\", the Austrian economist Ludwig von Mises compared bureaucratic management to profit management. Profit management, he argued, is the most effective method of organization when the services rendered may be checked by economic calculation of profit and loss. When, however, the service in question can not be subjected to economic calculation, bureaucratic management is necessary. He did not oppose universally bureaucratic management; on the contrary, he argued that bureaucracy is an indispensable method for social organization, for it is the only method by which the law can be made supreme, and is the protector of the individual against despotic arbitrariness. Using the example of the Catholic Church, he pointed out that bureaucracy is only appropriate for an organization whose code of conduct is not subject to change. He then went on to argue that complaints about bureaucratization usually refer not to the criticism of the bureaucratic methods themselves, but to \"the intrusion of bureaucracy into all spheres of human life.\" Mises saw bureaucratic processes at work in both the private and public spheres; however, he believed that bureaucratization in the private sphere could only occur as a consequence of government interference. According to him, \"What must be realized is only that the strait jacket of bureaucratic organization paralyzes the individual's initiative, while within the capitalist market society an innovator still has a chance to succeed. The former makes for stagnation and preservation of inveterate methods, the latter makes for progress and improvement.\"\n\nAmerican sociologist Robert K. Merton expanded on Weber's theories of bureaucracy in his work \"Social Theory and Social Structure\", published in 1957. While Merton agreed with certain aspects of Weber's analysis, he also noted the dysfunctional aspects of bureaucracy, which he attributed to a \"trained incapacity\" resulting from \"over conformity\". He believed that bureaucrats are more likely to defend their own entrenched interests than to act to benefit the organization as a whole but that pride in their craft makes them resistant to changes in established routines. Merton stated that bureaucrats emphasize formality over interpersonal relationships, and have been trained to ignore the special circumstances of particular cases, causing them to come across as \"arrogant\" and \"haughty\".\n\nIn his book “A General Theory of Bureaucracy”, first published in 1976, Dr. Elliott Jaques describes the discovery of a universal and uniform underlying structure of managerial or work levels in the bureaucratic hierarchy for any type of employment systems.\n\nElliott Jaques argues and presents evidence that for the bureaucracy to provide a valuable contribution to the open society some of the following conditions must be met:\nThe definition of effective bureaucratic hierarchy by Elliott Jaques is of importance not only to sociology but to social psychology, social anthropology, economics, politics, and social philosophy. They also have a practical application in business and administrative studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15649871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15649871", "title": "Colin Beavan", "text": "Colin Beavan\n\nColin Beavan (born 1963) is an American non-fiction writer and internet blogger noted for recording the attempts of his family to live a \"zero impact\" lifestyle in New York City for one year.\n\nThe rules of the experiment included producing no trash save for compost, purchasing no goods except for food grown within a 250-mile radius, using no carbon-based transportation, and using no paper products, including toilet paper. He and his family are the subject of a documentary, \"No Impact Man: The Documentary\". A book about the year-long experiment was released in September 2009.\n\nBeavan was named one of MSN’s Ten Most Influential Men of 2007 and was named an Eco-Illuminator in \"Elle Magazine's\" 2008 Green Awards. His blog NoImpactMan.com was named one of the world’s top 15 environmental\nwebsites by \"Time Magazine\". He has written for numerous American magazines, including the \"Atlantic Monthly\" and \"Wired\".\n\nIn May 2012, Beavan announced he would run for the United States House of Representatives seat representing New York's 8th congressional district, running as the nominee of the Green Party. Beavan lost the general election to Hakeem Jeffries, a member of the New York State Assembly.\n\nDuring the filming of \"No Impact Man\", Colin lived in New York City with his wife Michelle and their daughter. They've since divorced, but remain supportive of each other in co-parenting their daughter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19772330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19772330", "title": "Conference of Specialised Ministers", "text": "Conference of Specialised Ministers\n\nThe organisation of a Conference of Specialised Ministers is a traditional working method of the Council of Europe. \n\nThe purpose of such conferences is to define and pursue the goals of the Council of Europe’s intergovernmental activities in their particular fields of competence. These conferences have a quasi-legal identity of their own in international relations.\nThe practice began in Vienna in 1959 with the first Conference of Ministers responsible for Family Affairs. However, the working methods for such conferences were only formalised in 1971 with the adoption of Committee of Ministers Resolution (71) 44., which gives a list of conferences with which the Council of Europe \"has a special working relationship\". \n\nIn February 2008, in the interests of transparency and visibility, the Committee of Ministers decided that all of its ministerial conferences would henceforth include \"Council of Europe\" in the title.\n\nSeveral attempts to update this text finally came to fruition in June 2011 with the adoption of Resolution CM/Res(2011)7.\nSeveral of the Conferences are prepared by a special committee of senior officials, which meets solely for that purpose. Others are prepared by the respective Council of Europe steering committee.\nThe Committee of Ministers issues a regular information document \"Forthcoming Conferences of Specialised Ministers\", which gives the current state of preparation of these conferences.\n\nThe Conferences traditionally use a 3-letter abbreviation by which they and their relevant reports and resolutions are readily identified. Although a few of these have changed over the years, most of them have remained remarkably consistent.\n\nThe Committee of Ministers currently lists 14 conferences as operational:\n\n\nThe last of these, the Conference on Social Cohesion, is new, and met for the first time in Moscow in February 2009.\nThere have been a number of other conferences in the past, which are now discontinued. Many of the conferences have undergone several name changes, which make them difficult to trace.\nThey should be distinguished from European Union ministerial conferences. The European Union occasionally convenes ministers in certain sectors (such as culture). Such meetings are often described as informal. \n\nSome of the more successful conferences (e.g. Ministers of Justice) have become virtual institutions in themselves.\nThe Committee of Ministers approves the theme and the organisations and non-member states to be invited.\n\nEach conference makes a report to the Committee of Ministers after the conference, which also examines the possible follow-up to the conference.\nSeveral conferences of specialised ministers have only been held once, with no plans for them to meet again, notably : \n\n\nFour other ministerial conferences have been discontinued :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52153705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52153705", "title": "Cortes Gerais", "text": "Cortes Gerais\n\nThe Cortes Gerais (Portuguese: \"General Courts\"; pre-1911: Cortes Geraes) were the legislature of the Kingdom of Portugal during the Constitutional Monarchy period. The Cortes were established by provision of the 1822 Portuguese Constitution as a unicameral parliament. However, the Constitutional Charter of 1826 reformed the Cortes as a bicameral legislature, with the Chamber of Most Worthy Peers of the Kingdom as its upper house and the Chamber of Gentlemen Deputies of the Portuguese Nation as its lower house.\n\nThe name of the legislature originates from the traditional Portuguese Cortes, the parliament convening the three estates during the absolute monarchy.\n"}
{"id": "31488016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31488016", "title": "Denationalized citizenship", "text": "Denationalized citizenship\n\nDenationalized Citizenship is one of many new citizenship processes which redefine traditional notions of citizenship as intrinsically linked with the nation-state and occurs within a subnational scale. A denationalized citizen does not consider the nation-state as being necessary for political participation and identity.\n\nThe concept of citizenship has historically been associated with national identity and the nation-state since the French Revolution saw the people claim sovereignty of the state and essentially become the state. The growing importance of global processes has led to practices which were previously uniquely bound with the nation-state moving to other private, supranational and subnational institutions and spheres. Denationalized citizenship is a concept which has emerged due to complex processes associated with globalization and the consequent changes of the role of the nation-state due to privatization, deregulation and increased human rights. These globalization processes occurring most notably since the 1980s have created new and strengthened pre-existing divisions within nation-states. Put simply, denationalized citizenship is when communities have a stronger sense of belonging and identification with smaller cultural and social groups than with their nation-state. For example, some see the United States as a nation of nationalities more than a nation-state. Denationalized citizenship suggests that citizenship can be practiced at a variety of scales and leads to a new understanding of the relationship between citizenship and the nation-state. Denationalized citizenship is not, however, entirely disconnected from the nation-state but indicates a new way of interacting with it and within it.\n\nDenationalized citizenship and an increase in self-determination can create new political spaces and arenas of participation. Denationalized citizenship may empower groups such as women who could establish a public presence and make claims on the state. Therefore denationalized citizenship exists partly due to the actions of the excluded. Increased civil rights facilitate the denationalization of citizenship as citizens can make claims against their nation-states and act autonomously in the political sphere. Denationalized citizenship reflects the evolving and progressing capacity of democracy and the democratization of citizenship is therefore linked to denationalization and the changing authority of nation-states. Another type of right which denationalizes citizenship is the portable rights within the European Union, for example, where there is a change in recognition from citizens of a nation-state to individuals as individuals. Denationalized citizenship calls for a new understanding of citizenship as a concept which encompasses many, at times overlapping, communities and feelings of belonging and identification.\n\nDenationalized citizenship emerges from the premise that nation-states are no longer solely capable of enhancing political participation and can in fact create an obstacle for such activity. Additionally, identity is no longer synonymous with the nation-state and citizenship is increasingly understood as \"a form of identification, a type of political identity, something to be constructed, not empirically given\" (Mouffe, 1992: 231). These points appear to challenge the sovereignty and authority of the nation-state as the traditional frame of reference for identity and political participation which imply a pressure to fragment territorial structures.\n\nThe idea that denationalized citizenship poses a serious problem for the nation-state is contested. Practices of national citizenship may be in decline due to the many processes transforming citizenship however some believe that these challenges do not completely undermine the state but rather signify a simultaneous reconfiguring of citizenship and the nation-state's functions. Denationalized citizenship can coexist with the nation-state but is necessary to widen the possibilities of political participation in the globalizing world.\n\nDenationalized citizenship, postnational and transnational citizenship are frequently misused and used interchangeably, therefore a distinction between the terms is important. Denationalized citizenship is often used to mean any type of contemporary concept of citizenship which separates itself from the nation-state, however it alone means processes occurring within the borders of the nation-state. Postnational and transnational citizenship refer to new types of citizenship, such as citizenship of the European Union, which are outside of national borders and, although all concepts share some characteristics, denationalized citizenship does not require that citizenship be relocated to outside of the nation-state, as is central to postnational and transnational citizenship. Although denationalized citizenship can be associated with or caused by global and transnational processes, it occurs within the national and not outside of or across several nation-states.\n"}
{"id": "1167814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1167814", "title": "Diplomatic service", "text": "Diplomatic service\n\nDiplomatic service is the body of diplomats and foreign policy officers maintained by the government of a country to communicate with the governments of other countries. Diplomatic personnel enjoy diplomatic immunity when they are accredited to other countries. Diplomatic services are often part of the larger civil service and sometimes a constituent part of the foreign ministry.\n\nSome intergovernmental organizations, such as the European Union, and some international non-state organizations, such as the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, may also retain diplomatic services in other jurisdictions. For non-state organizations, the reciprocation of diplomatic recognition by other jurisdictions is difficult, as diplomacy tends to establish the concept of recognition upon an assumed sovereignty over geographical territory; the SMOM, in this case, receives diplomats at its headquarters in Rome, as all permanent missions to the SMOM are jointly accredited as permanent missions to the Holy See. In relation, many more non-state international organizations, such as the IFRC/ICRC, maintain permanent non-voting observer status to intergovernmental bodies such as the United Nations General Assembly, appointing individual representatives to the observer office.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "202311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202311", "title": "E-services", "text": "E-services\n\nE-services (electronic services) are services which use of information and communication technologies (ICTs). The three main components of e-services are- service provider, service receiver and the channels of service delivery (i.e., technology). For example, as concerned to public e-service, public agencies are the service provider and citizens as well as businesses are the service receiver. The channel of service delivery is the third requirement of e-service. Internet is the main channel of e-service delivery while other classic channels (e.g. telephone, call center, public kiosk, mobile phone, television) are also considered.\n\nSince its inception in the late 1980s in Europe and formal introduction in 1993 by the US Government, the term ‘E-Government’ has now become one of the recognized research domains especially in the context of public policy and now has been rapidly gaining strategic importance in public sector modernization. E-service is one of the branches of this domain and its attention has also been creeping up among the practitioners and researchers.\n\nE-service (or eservice) is a highly generic term, usually referring to ‘The provision of services via the Internet (the prefix 'e' standing for ‘electronic’, as it does in many other usages), thus e-Service may also include e-Commerce, although it may also include non-commercial services (online), which is usually provided by the government.’ (Irma Buntantan & G. David Garson, 2004: 169-170; Muhammad Rais & Nazariah, 2003: 59, 70-71).\n\n\"E-Service constitutes the online services available on the Internet, whereby a valid transaction of buying and selling (procurement) is possible, as opposed to the traditional websites, whereby only descriptive information are available, and no online transaction is made possible.\" (Jeong, 2007).\n\nLu (2001) identifies a number of benefits for e-services, some of these are:\n\n\n\nThe term ‘e-service’ has many applications and can be found in many disciplines. The two dominant application areas of e-services are\n\nE-business (or e-commerce): e-services mostly provided by businesses or [NGO|non-government organizations] (NGOs) (private sector).\n\nE-government: e-services provided by government to citizens or business (public sector is the supply side). The use and description of the e-service in this page will be limited to the context of e-government only where of the e-service is usually associated with prefix “public”: Public e-services. In some cases, we will have to describe aspects that are related to both fields like some conferences or journals which cover the concept of “e-Service” in both domains of e-government and e-business.[example: www.eserviceforyou.com]\n\nDepending on the types of services, there are certain functionalities required in the certain layers of e-service architectural framework, these include but are not limited to – Data layer (data sources), processing layers (customer service systems, management systems, data warehouse systems, integrated customer content systems), exchange layer (Enterprise Application Integration– EAI), interaction layer ( integrating e-services), and presentation layer (customer interface through which the web pages and e-services are linked).\n\nMeasuring service quality and service excellence are important in a competitive organizational environment. The SERVQUAL- service quality model is one of the widely used tools for measuring quality of the service on various aspects. The five attributes of this model are: reliability, responsiveness, assurance, tangibles, and empathy. The following table summarizes some major of these:\n\nThe LIRNEasia study on benchmarking national telecom regulator websites focuses on content than on accessibility and ease of use, unlike the other studies mentioned here. Websites are increasingly important portals to government agencies, especially in the context of information society reforms. Stakeholders, including businesses, investors and even the general public, are interested in information produced by these agencies, and websites can help to increase their transparency and accountability. The quality of its website also demonstrates how advanced a regulatory agency is.\n\nSome major cost factors are (Lu, 2001):\n\n\nInformation technology is a powerful tool for accelerating economic development. Developing countries have focused on the development of ICT during the last two decades and as a result, it has been recognized that ICT is critical to economy and is as a catalyst of economic development. So, in recent years there seems to have been efforts for providing various e-services in many developing countries since ICT is believed to offer considerable potential for the sustainable development of e-Government and as a result, e-Services.\n\nMany government agencies in developed countries have taken progressive steps toward the web and ICT use, adding coherence to all local activities on the Internet, widening local access and skills, opening up interactive services for local debates, and increasing the participation of citizens on promotion and management of the territory(Graham and Aurigi, 1997).\n\nBut the potential for e-government in developing countries remains largely unexploited, even though. ICT is believed to offer considerable potential for the sustainable development of e-government. Different human, organizational and technological factors,\nissues and problems pertain in these countries, requiring focused studies and appropriate approaches. ICT, in general, is referred to as an “enabler”, but on the other hand, it should also be regarded as a challenge and a peril in itself. The organizations, public or private, which ignore the potential value and use of ICT may suffer pivotal competitive disadvantages. Nevertheless, some e-government initiatives have flourished in developing countries too, e.g. Brazil, India, Chile, etc. What the experience in these countries shows, is that governments in the developing world can effectively exploit and appropriate the benefits of ICT, but e-government success entails the accommodation of certain unique conditions, needs and obstacles. The adaptive challenges of e-government go far beyond technology, they call for organizational structures and skills, new forms of leadership, transformation of public-private partnerships (Allen et al., 2001).\n\nFollowing are a few examples regarding e-services in some developing countries:\n\nBangladesh first e-service system is National E-Service System ([http://www.eservice.gov.bd/[ NESS]]) and 2nd e-Service For you [http://eserviceforyou.com/[eserviceforyou.com]]. \n\nOnly a decade after emerging from the fastest genocide of the 20th Century, Rwanda, a small country in Eastern Central Africa,\nhas become one of the continent’s leaders in, and model on, bridging the digital divide through e-government. Rwanda has undergone a rapid turnaround from one of the most technologically deficient countries only a decade ago to a country\nwhere legislative business is conducted online and wireless access to the Internet is available anywhere in the country. This is\npuzzling when viewed against the limited progress made in other comparable developing countries, especially those located in the\nsame region, sub-Saharan Africa, where the structural and institutional constraints to e-government diffusion are similar.\n\nIn South Africa, there continues to be high expectations of government in respect to improved delivery of service and of closer consultation with citizens. Such expectations are not unique to this country, and in this regard there is a need for governments to recognise that the implementation of e-government systems and e-services affords them the opportunity to enhance service delivery and good governance. The implementation of e-Government has been widely acclaimed in that it provides new impetus to deliver services quickly and efficiently (Evans & Yen, 2006:208). In recognition of these benefits, various arms of the South African government have embarked on a number of e-government programmes for example the Batho Pele portal, SARS e-filing, the e-Natis system, electronic processing of grant applications from remote sites, and a large number of departmental information websites. Also a number of well publicised e-government ventures such as the latter, analysts and researchers consider the state of e-government in South Africa to be at rudimentary stages. There are various factors\nwhich collectively contribute to such an assessment. Amongst these, key factors relate to a lack of a clear strategy to facilitate uptake and adoption of e-government services as well as evaluation frameworks to assess expectations of citizens who are one of the primary user groups of these services.\n\nE-Services is one of the pilot projects under the Electronic Government Flagship within the Multimedia Super Corridor (MSC) initiative. With E-Services, one can now conduct transactions with Government agencies, such as the Road Transport Department (RTD) and private utility companies such as Tenaga Nasional Berhad (TNB) and Telekom Malaysia Berhad (TM) through various convenient channels such as the eServices kiosks and internet. No more queuing, traffic jams or bureaucratic hassles and one can now conduct transaction at one’s own convenience. Also, Electronic Labour Exchange (ELX)is one stop-centre for labor market information, as supervised by the Ministry of Human Resource (MOHR), to enable employers and job seekers to communicate on the same platform.\n\ne-Syariah is the seventh project under the Electronic Government flagship application of the Multimedia Super Corridor (MSC). A case management system that integrates the processes related to management of cases for the Syariah Courts.\n\nIn America, citizens have many options and opportunities to follow and understand government actions through e-government. Government 2.0 (Gov. 2.0) is currently in place to bring the people and governments together to learn new information, increase government transparency, and better means for communicating to one another. Gov. 2.0 offers increased citizen participation through on-line applications such as social media and other apps. Through the internet and websites such as USA.gov, an individual can perform actions such as contacting elected officials, find information about the work force such as retirement plans and labor laws, learn about money and consumer issues such as taxes, loans, and welfare, learn about citizenship and obtaining a visa or passport, and other topics such as health and welfare, education, and environmental issues.\n\nE-commerce is another growing E-service in the United States for both big and small businesses. E-commerce sales are projected to grow 10 to 12 percent annually. Amazon.com is the largest on-line marketplace in the country with annual sales of $79 billion. Wal-Mart is also a widely popular retailer. They have grown their business by having electronic services. Wal-Mart’s sales for E-commerce in 2015 was roughly $13 billion. Apple develops and sells a wide variety of technological goods and services such as cell phones, music players, and computers. Apple’s sales for E-commerce in 2015 was $12 billion. E-services allows businesses to reach new clientele and offer new services. Companies such as eBay and Etsy have achieved great success, with eBay posting a net income in 2016 of nearly $9 billion and Esty claiming roughly $200 million in profits from nearly $2 billion sales. The majority or eBay's business is conducted in the United States but it does a great deal of international business including the United Kingdom and Germany. The global reach of Etsy is seen in nearly every country in the world with 31% of gross merchandise sales occurring outside of the United States.\n\nChina’s recent realization of the continuing growth of internet usage has caused the government to recognize the need to expand their E-government services. Some steps the government wants to take in order to increase their E-government services are to develop more online functions, use government sites to integrate on-line services, have supplementary open data available to citizens to further government transparency, and to combine services from local and country-wide governments for convenience. China’s plan of action to incorporate the internet into everyday business and grow the economy is known as “Internet Plus.” The government plans to have this plan in full effect by 2025 to be the main driving force for economic and social improvements. Internet Plus will help to grow the job market as the government plans to use local citizens for development, and to generate more areas dedicated to technological growth such as Zhongguancun.\n\nBecause of the large population, China has the most internet and cell phone users in the world.(consider rewording) This causes a need for technological growth and a demand for increased E-services. In 2016, Chinese consumers spent more money for on-line goods and services than the United States and United Kingdom combined. There is(are) a wide variety of reasons as to why E-commerce flourishes in China including easy access to mobile internet, low cost of shipping, and a vast selection of cheap, unbranded products. Alibaba is China’s largest on-line marketplace with an annual revenue stream of $16 billion. Its services are globally available in Russia and Brazil through AliExpress. Tencent is another internet company with an annual revenue income of $16 billion. Tencent is used mainly for instant messaging but has other applications as well including mobile games and other digital content. By the end of 2015, Tencent’s WeChat messaging app reached around 700 million users. The biggest competitor for Tencent is Facebook’s WhatsApp. Baidu Is the most visited website in the country and it is used as a search engine and has an annual revenue of $10 billion. In March 2016, there were roughly 663 million users. Google challenges Baidu as the major internet search engines in the world. Huawei is a tech company that produces phones, tablets, and develops the equipment used in fixed-line networks. Huawei has an annual revenue income of $61 billion. It is currently located throughout 100 countries worldwide and in 2015, it filed 3,898 patent applications, more than any other country in the world. The biggest competitors to Huawei is Apple and Samsung.\n\nThe future of e-service is bright but some challenges remain. There are some challenges in e-service, as Sheth & Sharma (2007) identify, are:\n\n\nThe first challenge and primary obstacle to the e-service platform will be penetration of the internet. In some developing countries, the access to the internet is limited and speeds are also limited. In these cases firms and customers will continue to use traditional platforms. The second issue of concern is fraud on the internet. It is anticipated that the fraud on the e-commerce internet space costs $2.8 billion. Possibility of fraud will continue to reduce the utilization of the internet. The third issue is of privacy. Due to both spyware and security holes in operating systems, there is concern that the transactions that consumers undertake have privacy limitations. For example, by stealthily following online activities, firms can develop fairly accurate descriptions of customer profiles. Possibility of privacy violations will reduce the utilizations of the internet. The final issue is that e-service can also become intrusive as they reduce time and location barriers of other forms of contract. For example, firms can contact people through mobile devices at any time and at any place. Customers do not take like the intrusive behavior and may not use the e-service platform. (Heiner and lyer, 2007)\n\nA considerable amount of research efforts already exists on the subject matter exploring different aspects of e-service and e-service delivery ; one worth noting effort is Rowley’s study (2006) who did a review study on the e-service literature. The key finding of his study is that there is need to explore dimensions of e-service delivery not focusing only on service quality “In order to understand e-service experiences it is necessary to go beyond studies of e-service quality dimensions and to also take into account the inherent characteristics of e-service delivery and the factors that differentiate one service experience from another.”\n\nSome of the major keywords of e-service as found in the e-government research are as follows:\n\nUser acceptance of technology is defined according to Morris (1996, referred by Wu 2005, p. 1) as “the demonstrable willingness within a user group to employ information technology for the tasks it is designed to support”. This definition can be brought into the context of e-service where acceptance can be defined as the users’ willingness to use e-service or the willingness to decide when and how to use the e-service.\n\nUsers’ ability to access to the e-service is important theme in the previous literature. For example, Huang (2003) finds that most of the websites in general fail to serve users with disabilities. Recommendation to improve accessibility is evident in previous literature including Jaeger (2006) who suggests the following to improve e-services’ accessibility like: design for accessibility from the outset of website development, Involve users with disabilities in the testing of the site …Focus on the benefits of an accessible Web site to all users.\n\nAccording to Grönlund et al. (2007), for a simple e-service, the needs for knowledge and skills, content and procedures are considerably less. However, in complicated services there are needed to change some prevailed skills, such as replacing verbal skills with skill in searching for information online.\n\nThis theme is concerned with establishing standards for measuring e-services or the best practices within the field. This theme also includes the international benchmarking of e-government services (UN reports, EU reports); much critic has been targeting these reports being incomprehensive and useless. According to Bannister (2007) “… benchmarks are not a reliable tool for measuring real e-government progress. Furthermore, if they are poorly designed, they risk distorting government policies as countries may chase the benchmark rather than looking at real local and national needs”\n\nDigital divide is considered one of the main barriers to implementing e-services; some people do not have means to access the e-services and some others do not know how to use the technology (or the e-service). According to Helbig et al. (2009), “we suggest E-Government and the digital divide should be seen as complementary social phenomena (i.e., demand and supply). Moreover, a serious e-government digital divide is that services mostly used by social elites.\"\n\nMost of the reports and the established criteria focus on assessing the services in terms of infrastructure and public policies ignoring the citizen participation or e-readiness. According to by Shalini (2009), “the results of the research project reveal that a high index may be only indicating that a country is e-ready in terms of ICT infrastructure and info-structure, institutions, policies, and political commitment, but it is a very poor measure of the e-readiness of citizens. To summarize the findings, it can be said that Mauritius is ready but the Mauritians are not”\n\n``E-readiness, as the Economist Intelligence Unit defines, is the measure of a country’s ability to leverage digital channels for communication, commerce and government in order to further economic and social development. Implied in this measure is the extent to which the usage of communications devices and Internet services creates efficiencies for business and citizens, and the extent to which this usage is leveraged in the development of information and communications technology (ICT) industries. In general terms, the definition of e-readiness is relative, for instance depending on a country in question's priorities and perspective.\n\nAs opposed to effectiveness, efficiency is focused on the internal competence within the government departments when delivering e-services. There is a complaint that researchers focus more on effectiveness “There is an emerging trend seemingly moving away from the efficiency target and focusing on users and governance outcome. While the latter is worthwhile, efficiency must still remain a key priority for eGovernment given the budget constraints compounded in the future by the costs of an ageing population. Moreover, efficiency gains are those that can be most likely proven empirically through robust methodologies”\n\nSecurity is the most important challenge that faces the implementation of e-services because without a guarantee of privacy and security citizens will not be willing to take up e-government services. These security concerns, such as hacker attacks and the theft of credit card information, make governments hesitant to provide public online services. According to the GAO report of 2002 “security concerns present one of the toughest challenges to extending the reach of e-government.The rash of hacker attacks, Web page defacing, and credit card information being posted on electronic bulletin boards can make many federal agency officials—as well as the general public—reluctant to conduct sensitive government transactions involving personal or financial data over the Internet.” By and Large, Security is one of the major challenges that faces the implementation and development of electronic services. people want to be assured that they are safe when they are conducting online services and that their information will remain secure and confidential\n\nAxelsson et al. (2009) argue that the stakeholder concept-which was originally used in private firms-, can be used in public setting and in the context of e-government. According to them, several scholars have discussed the use of the stakeholder theory in public settings. The stakeholder theory suggests that need to focus on all the involved stakeholder s when designing the e-service; not only on the government and citizens.\n\nCompared to Accessibility, There is sufficient literature that addresses the issue of usability; researchers have developed different models and methods to measure the usability and effectiveness of eGovernment websites. However, But still there is call to improve these measures and make it more compressive\n\n``The word usability has cropped up a few times already in this unit. In the context of biometric identification, usability referred to the smoothness of enrollment and other tasks associated with setting up an identification system. A system that produced few false matches during enrollment of applicants was described as usable. Another meaning of usability is related to the ease of use of an interface. Although this meaning of the term is often used in the context of computer interfaces, there is no reason to confine it to computers.´´\n\nThe perceived effectiveness of e-service can be influenced by public’s view of the social and cultural implications of e-technologies and e-service.\n\nImpacts on individuals’ rights and privacy – as more and more companies and government agencies use technology to collect, store, and make accessible data on individuals, privacy concerns have grown. Some companies monitor their employees' computer usage patterns in order to assess individual or workgroup performance. Technological advancements are also making it much easier for businesses, government and other individuals to obtain a great deal of information about an individual without their knowledge. There is a growing concern that access to a wide range of information can be dangerous within politically corrupt government agencies.\n\nImpact on Jobs and Workplaces - in the early days of computers, management scientists anticipated that computers would replace human decision-makers. However, despite significant technological advances, this prediction is no longer a mainstream concern. At the current time, one of the concerns associated with computer usage in any organization (including governments) is the health risk – such as injuries related to working continuously on a computer keyboard. Government agencies are expected to work with regulatory groups in order to avoid these problems.\n\nPotential Impacts on Society – despite some economic benefits of ICT to individuals, there is evidence that the computer literacy and access gap between the haves and have-nots may be increasing. Education and information access are more than ever the keys to economic prosperity, yet access by individuals in different countries is not equal - this social inequity has become known as the digital divide.\n\nImpact on Social Interaction – advancements in ICT and e-Technology solutions have enabled many government functions to become automated and information to be made available online. This is a concern to those who place a high value on social interaction.\n\nInformation Security - technological advancements allow government agencies to collect, store and make data available online to individuals and organizations. Citizens and businesses expect to be allowed to access data in a flexible manner (at any time and from any location). Meeting these expectations comes at a price to government agencies where it concerns managing information – more specifically, ease of access; data integrity and accuracy; capacity planning to ensure the timely delivery of data to remote (possibly mobile) sites; and managing the security of corporate and public information.\n\nThe benefits of e-services in advancing businesses efficiency and in promoting good governance are huge; recognizing the importance of these benefits has resulted in number of international awards that are dedicated to recognize the best designed e-services. In the section, we will provide description of some international awards\n\nEuropean eGovernment Awards program started 2003 to recognize the best online public service in Europe. The aim of Awards is to encourage the deployment of e-services and to bring the attention to best practices in the field. The winners of the |4th European eGovernment Awards were announced in the award ceremony that took place at the 5th Ministerial eGovernment Conference on 19 November 2009 (Sweden); the winners in their respective categories are:\n\n\nSultan Qaboos Award for excellence in eGovernance (Started 2009) The award has five categories: Best eContent, Best eService, Best eProject, eEconomy, eReadiness.\n\neGovernment Excellence Awards (Started 2007) The program has three categories: Government Awards: Best eContent, Best eService, Best eProject, eEconomy, eEducation, eMaturity Business Awards: Best ICT solution Provider, eEconomy, eEducation Citizen Awards: Best eContent, eCitizen.\n\nPhilippines e-Service Awards (Started 2001) Categories: Outstanding Client Application of the Year, Outstanding Customer Application of the year, Groundbreaking Technology of the Year, Most Progressive Homegrown Company of the Year.\n\nThere are some journals particularly interested for “e-Service “. Some of these are:\n\nMajor conferences considering e-service as one of the themes are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16689", "title": "Economy of Kuwait", "text": "Economy of Kuwait\n\nKuwait is a small, petroleum-based economy. The Kuwaiti dinar is the highest-valued unit of currency in the world. Non-petroleum industries include financial services. According to the World Bank, Kuwait is the fourth richest country in the world per capita. Kuwait is the second richest GCC country per capita (after Qatar).\n\nKuwait has a leading position in the financial industry in the GCC; the abyss that separates Kuwait from its Gulf neighbors in terms of tourism, transport, and other measures of diversification is absent in the financial sector. The Emir has promoted the idea that Kuwait should focus its energies, in terms of economic development, on the financial industry.\n\nThe historical preeminence of Kuwait (among the Gulf monarchies) in finance dates back to the founding of the National Bank of Kuwait in 1952. The bank was the first local publicly traded corporation in the Gulf. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, an alternative stock market, trading in shares of Gulf companies, emerged in Kuwait, the Souk Al-Manakh. At its peak, its market capitalization was the third highest in the world, behind only the U.S. and Japan, and ahead of the UK and France.\n\nKuwait has a large wealth-management industry that stands out in the region. Kuwaiti investment companies administer more assets than those of any other GCC country, save the much larger Saudi Arabia. The Kuwait Financial Centre, in a rough calculation, estimated that Kuwaiti firms accounted for over one-third of the total assets under management in the GCC. The relative strength of Kuwait in the financial industry extends to its stock market. For many years, the total valuation of all companies listed on the Kuwaiti exchange far exceeded the value of those on any other GCC bourse, except Saudi Arabia. In 2011, financial and banking companies made up more than half of the market capitalization of the Kuwaiti bourse; among all the Gulf states, the market capitalization of Kuwaiti financial-sector firms was, in total, behind only that of Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn recent years, Kuwaiti investment companies have invested large percentages of their assets abroad, and their foreign assets have become substantially larger than their domestic assets.\n\nKuwait is a major source of foreign economic assistance to other states through the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, an autonomous state institution created in 1961 on the pattern of Western and international development agencies. Over the years aid was annually provided to Egypt, Syria, and Jordan, as well as the Palestine Liberation Organization. In 1974, the fund's lending mandate was expanded to include all developing countries in the world.\n\nIn 1934, the Emir of Kuwait granted an oil concession to the Kuwait Oil Co. (KOC), jointly owned by the Anglo-Persian Oil Company (later British Petroleum Company) and Gulf Oil Corporation In 1976, the Kuwaiti Government nationalized KOC. The following year, Kuwait took over onshore production in the Divided Zone between Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. KOC produces jointly there with Texaco, Inc., which, by its 1984 purchase of Getty Oil Co., acquired the Saudi Arabian onshore concession in the Divided Zone.\n\nIn the Offshore Divided Zone, the Arabian Oil Co. – 80% owned by Japanese interests and 10% each by the Kuwaiti and Saudi Governments – has produced on behalf of both countries since 1961. The original concession agreements have expired on January 2003; negotiations to replace the concession with a technical service agreement were completed in 2002.\n\nThe Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC), an integrated international oil company, is the parent company of the government's operations in the petroleum sector, and includes Kuwait Oil Company, which produced oil and gas; Kuwait National Petroleum Co., refining and domestic sales; Petrochemical Industries Co., producing ammonia and urea; Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Co., with several concessions in developing countries; Kuwait Oil Tanker Co.; and Santa Fe International Corp. The latter, purchased outright in 1982, gives KPC a worldwide presence in the petroleum industry.\n\nKPC also has purchased from Gulf Oil Co. refineries and associated service stations in the Benelux nations and Scandinavia, as well as storage facilities and a network of service stations in Italy. In 1987, KPC bought a 19% share in British Petroleum, which was later reduced to 10%. KPC markets its products in Europe under the brand Q8 and is interested in the markets of the United States and Japan.\n\nKuwait has about of recoverable oil reserves. Estimated capacity, before the war, was about . During the Iraqi occupation, Kuwait's oil-producing capacity was reduced to practically nothing. However, tremendous recovery and improvements have been made since. Oil production was by the end of 1992, and pre-war capacity was restored in 1993. Kuwait's production capacity is estimated to be . Kuwait plans to increase its capacity to by 2005.\n\nThe Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) is Kuwait's sovereign wealth fund specializing in foreign investment. The KIA is the world's oldest sovereign wealth fund. Since 1953, the Kuwaiti government has directed investments into Europe, United States and Asia Pacific. , the holdings were valued at $592 billion in assets. It is the 5th largest sovereign wealth fund in the world.\n\nThe KIA manages two funds: the General Reserve Fund (GRF) and Future Generations Fund (FGF). The GRF is the main treasurer for the government. It receives all state revenues and all national expenditures are paid out of this fund. The KIA does not disclose its financial assets in public, but it is estimated that the KIA has $410 billion in assets as of February 2014.\n\nThe KIA was the main source of capital for the Kuwaiti government during the Gulf War. The Kuwaiti government relied on the KIA to pay for coalition expenses and postwar reconstruction. The KIA was worth $100 billion prior to 1990, KIA funds were depleted to $40–$50 billion after the Gulf War.\n\nThe Future Generations Fund (FGF) was created in 1976 by transferring 50% from the general reserve fund at that time. The FGF is a saving funds for future generations. 25% of all state revenues are annually transferred to the fund.\n\nAll of the FGF is invested abroad, with an estimated 75% invested in the US and Europe and the rest in emerging markets, mainly China and India.\n\nTo date, Kuwait has registered 384 patents, the second highest figure in the Arab world. Kuwait produces the largest number of patents per capita in the Arab world and OIC. The government has implemented various programs to foster innovation resulting in patent rights. Between 2010 and 2016, Kuwait registered the highest growth in patents in the Arab world.\n\nIn the past five years, there has been a significant rise in entrepreneurship and small business start-ups in Kuwait. The informal sector is also on the rise, mainly due to the popularity of Instagram businesses. Many Kuwaiti entrepreneurs use the Instagram-based business model.\n\nTourism accounts for 1.5 percent of the GDP. In 2016, the tourism industry generated nearly $500 million in revenue. The annual \"Hala Febrayer\" festival attracts many tourists from neighboring GCC countries, and includes a variety of events including music concerts, parades, and carnivals. The festival is a month-long commemoration of the liberation of Kuwait, and runs from February 1 to February 28. Liberation Day itself is celebrated on February 26.\n\nIn 2017, agriculture (including fisheries) accounts for almost 0.4 percent of the gross domestic product and does not offer an important source of employment. Around 4 percent of the economically active population works in agriculture, almost all foreigners. The majority of farm owners are investors. The agricultural sector provides fruit and vegetables for sale in the country's supermarkets. The total agricultural land covered 1 521 sq km in 2014. Agriculture is limited by the lack of water and arable land. The government has experimented in growing food through hydroponics and carefully managed farms. However, most of the soil which was suitable for farming in south central Kuwait was destroyed when Iraqi troops set fire to oil wells in the area and created vast \"oil lakes\". Fish and shrimp are plentiful in territorial waters, and largescale commercial fishing has been undertaken locally and in the Indian Ocean.\n\nKuwait has an extensive and modern network of highways. Roadways extended , of which is paved. There are more than 2 million passenger cars, and 500,000 commercial taxis, buses, and trucks in use. On major highways the maximum speed is . Since there is no railway system in the country, most people travel by automobiles.\n\nThe country's public transportation network consists almost entirely of bus routes. The state owned Kuwait Public Transportation Company was established in 1962. It runs local bus routes across Kuwait as well as longer distance services to other Gulf states. The main private bus company is CityBus, which operates about 20 routes across the country. Another private bus company, Kuwait Gulf Link Public Transport Services, was started in 2006. It runs local bus routes across Kuwait and longer distance services to neighbouring Arab countries.\n\nThere are two airports in Kuwait. Kuwait International Airport serves as the principal hub for international air travel. State-owned Kuwait Airways is the largest airline in the country. A portion of the airport complex is designated as Al Mubarak Air Base, which contains the headquarters of the Kuwait Air Force, as well as the Kuwait Air Force Museum. In 2004, the first private airline of Kuwait, Jazeera Airways, was launched. In 2005, the second private airline, Wataniya Airways was founded.\n\nKuwait has one of the largest shipping industries in the region. The Kuwait Ports Public Authority manages and operates ports across Kuwait. The country’s principal commercial seaports are Shuwaikh and Shuaiba which handled combined cargo of 753,334 TEU in 2006. Mina Al-Ahmadi, the largest port in the country, handles most of Kuwait's oil exports. Construction of another major port located in Bubiyan island started in 2007. The port is expected to handle 1.3 million TEU when operations start.\n\nThe following table shows the main economic indicators in 1980–2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "29066482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29066482", "title": "Electoral system", "text": "Electoral system\n\nAn electoral system is a set of rules that determine how elections and referendums are conducted and how their results are determined. Political electoral systems are organized by governments, while non-political elections may take place in business, non-profit organisations and informal organisations.\n\nElectoral systems consist of sets of rules that govern all aspects of the voting process: when elections occur, who is allowed to vote, who can stand as a candidate, how ballots are marked and cast, how the ballots are counted (electoral method), limits on campaign spending, and other factors that can affect the outcome. Political electoral systems are defined by constitutions and electoral laws, are typically conducted by election commissions, and can use multiple types of elections for different offices.\n\nSome electoral systems elect a single winner to a unique position, such as prime minister, president or governor, while others elect multiple winners, such as members of parliament or boards of directors. There are a large number of variations in electoral systems, but the most common systems are first-past-the-post voting, the two-round (runoff) system, proportional representation and ranked or preferential voting. Some electoral systems, such as mixed systems, attempt to combine the benefits of non-proportional and proportional systems.\n\nThe study of formally defined electoral methods is called social choice theory or voting theory, and this study can take place within the field of political science, economics, or mathematics, and specifically within the subfields of game theory and mechanism design. Impossibility proofs such as Arrow's impossibility theorem demonstrates that when voters have three or more alternatives, it is not possible to design a ranked voting electoral system that reflects the preferences of individuals in a global preference of the community, present in countries with proportional representation and plurality voting.\n\nPlurality voting is a system in which the candidate(s) with the highest amount of vote wins, with no requirement to get a majority of votes. In cases where there is a single position to be filled, it is known as first-past-the-post; this is the second most common electoral system for national legislatures, with 58 countries using it to elect their legislatures, the vast majority of which are current or former British or American colonies or territories. It is also the second most common system used for presidential elections, being used in 19 countries.\n\nIn cases where there are multiple positions to be elected, most commonly in cases of multi-member constituencies, plurality voting is referred to as bloc voting or plurality-at-large. This takes two main forms; in one form voters have as many votes as there are seats and can vote for any candidate, regardless of party – this is used in eight countries. There are variations on this system such as limited voting, where voters are given fewer votes than there are seats to be elected (Gibraltar is the only territory where this system is in use) and single non-transferable vote (SNTV), in which voters are only able to vote for one candidate in a multi-member constituency, with the candidates receiving the most votes declared the winners; this system is used in Afghanistan, Kuwait, the Pitcairn Islands and Vanuatu. In the other main form of bloc voting, also known as party bloc voting, voters can only vote for the multiple candidates of a single party. This is used in five countries as part of mixed systems.\n\nThe Dowdall system, a multi-member constituency variation on the Borda count, is used in Nauru for parliamentary elections and sees voters rank the candidates depending on how many seats there are in their constituency. First preference votes are counted as whole numbers; the second preference votes divided by two, third preferences by three; this continues to the lowest possible ranking. The sums achieved by each candidate are then totalled to determine the winner.\n\nMajoritarian voting is a system in which candidates have to receive a majority of the votes to be elected, although in some cases only a plurality is required in the last round of counting if no candidate can achieve a majority. There are two main forms of majoritarian systems, one using a single round of ranked voting and the other using two or more rounds. Both are primarily used for single-member constituencies.\n\nMajoritarian voting can take place in a single round using instant-runoff voting (IRV), whereby voters rank candidates in order of preference; this system is used for parliamentary elections in Australia and Papua New Guinea. If no candidate receives a majority of the vote in the first round, the second preferences of the lowest-ranked candidate are then added to the totals. This is repeated until a candidate achieves over 50% of the number of valid votes. If not all voters use all their preference votes, then the count may continue until two candidates remain, at which point the winner is the one with the most votes. A modified form of IRV is the contingent vote where voters do not rank all candidates, but have a limited number of preference votes. If no candidate has a majority in the first round, all candidates are excluded except the top two, with the highest remaining preference votes from the votes for the excluded candidates then added to the totals to determine the winner. This system is used in Sri Lankan presidential elections, with voters allowed to give three preferences.\n\nThe other main form of majoritarian system is the two-round system, which is the most common system used for presidential elections around the world, being used in 88 countries. It is also used in 20 countries for electing the legislature. If no candidate achieves a majority of votes in the first round of voting, a second round is held to determine the winner. In most cases the second round is limited to the top two candidates from the first round, although in some elections more than two candidates may choose to contest the second round; in these cases the second round is decided by plurality voting. Some countries use a modified form of the two-round system, such as Ecuador where a candidate in the presidential election is declared the winner if they receive 40% of the vote and is 10% ahead of their nearest rival, or Argentina (45% plus 10% ahead), where the system is known as ballotage.\n\nAn exhaustive ballot is not limited to two rounds, but sees the last-placed candidate eliminated in the round of voting. Due to the large potential number of rounds, this system is not used in any major popular elections, but is used to elect the Speakers of parliament in several countries and members of the Swiss Federal Council. In some formats there may be multiple rounds held without any candidates being removed until a candidate achieves a majority, a system used in the United States Electoral College.\n\nProportional representation is the most widely used electoral system for national legislatures, with the parliaments of over eighty countries elected by various forms of the system.\n\nParty-list proportional representation is the single most common electoral system and is used by 80 countries, and involves voters voting for a list of candidates proposed by a party. In closed list systems voters do not have any influence over the candidates put forward by the party, but in open list systems voters are able to both vote for the party list and influence the order in which candidates will be assigned seats. In some countries, notably Israel and the Netherlands, elections are carried out using 'pure' proportional representation, with the votes tallied on a national level before assigning seats to parties. However, in most cases several multi-member constituencies are used rather than a single nationwide constituency, giving an element of geographical representation. However, this can result in the distribution of seats not reflecting the national vote totals. As a result, some countries have leveling seats to award to parties whose seat totals are lower than their proportion of the national vote.\n\nIn addition to the electoral threshold, the minimum percentage of the vote that a party must obtain to win seats, there are several different methods for calculating seat allocation in proportional systems, typically broken down into the two main types; highest average and largest remainder. Highest average systems involve dividing the votes received by each party by a series of divisors, producing figures that determine seat allocation; examples include the d'Hondt method (of which there are variants including Hagenbach-Bischoff) or the Webster/Sainte-Laguë method. Under largest remainder systems, party's vote shares are divided by the quota (obtained by dividing the number of votes by the number of seats available). This usually leaves some seats unallocated, which are awarded to parties based on the largest fractions of seats that they have remaining. Examples of largest remainder systems include the Hare quota, Droop quota, the Imperiali quota and the Hagenbach-Bischoff quota.\n\nSingle transferable vote (STV) is another form of proportional representation, but is achieved by voters ranking candidates in a multi-member constituency by preference rather than voting for a party list; it is used in Malta and the Republic of Ireland. To be elected, candidates must pass a quota (the Droop quota being the most common). Candidates that pass the quota on the first count are elected. Votes are then reallocated from the least successful candidates until the number of candidates that have passed the quota is equal to the number of seats to be filled.\n\nIn several countries, mixed systems are used to elect the legislature. These include parallel voting and mixed-member proportional representation.\n\nIn parallel voting systems, which are used in 20 countries, there are two methods by which members of a legislature are elected; part of the membership is elected by a plurality or majority vote in single-member constituencies and the other part by proportional representation. The results of the constituency vote has no effect on the outcome of the proportional vote.\n\nMixed-member proportional representation, in use in eight countries, also sees the membership of the legislature elected by constituency and proportional methods, but the results of the proportional vote are adjusted to balance the seats won in the constituency vote in order to ensure that parties have a number of seats proportional to their vote share. This may result in overhang seats, where parties win more seats in the constituency system than they would be entitled to based on their vote share. Variations of this include the Additional Member System and Alternative Vote Plus, in which voters rank candidates, and the other from multi-member constituencies elected on a proportional party list basis. A form of mixed-member proportional representation, Scorporo, was used in Italy from 1993 until 2006.\n\nSome electoral systems feature a majority bonus system to either ensure one party or coalition gains a majority in the legislature, or to give the party receiving the most votes a clear advantage in terms of the number of seats. In Greece the party receiving the most votes is given an additional 50 seats, San Marino has a modified two-round system, which sees a second round of voting featuring the top two parties or coalitions if there is no majority in the first round. The winner of the second round is guaranteed 35 seats in the 60-seat Grand and General Council.\n\nIn Uruguay, the President and members of the General Assembly are elected by on a single ballot, known as the double simultaneous vote. Voters cast a single vote, voting for the presidential, Senatorial and Chamber of Deputies candidates of that party. This system was also previously used in Bolivia and the Dominican Republic.\n\nPrimary elections are a feature of some electoral systems, either as a formal part of the electoral system or informally by choice of individual political parties as a method of selecting candidates, as is the case in Italy. Primary elections limit the risk of vote splitting by ensuring a single party candidate. In Argentina they are a formal part of the electoral system and take place two months before the main elections; any party receiving less than 1.5% of the vote is not permitted to contest the main elections. In the United States, there are both partisan and non-partisan primary elections.\n\nSome elections feature an indirect electoral system, whereby there is either no popular vote, or the popular vote is only one stage of the election; in these systems the final vote is usually taken by an electoral college. In several countries, such as Mauritius or Trinidad and Tobago, the post of President is elected by the legislature. In others like India, the vote is taken by an electoral college consisting of the national legislature and state legislatures. In the United States, the president is indirectly elected using a two-stage process; a popular vote in each state elects members to the electoral college that in turn elects the President. This can result in a situation where a candidate who receives the most votes nationwide does not win the electoral college vote, as most recently happened in 2000 and 2016.\n\nIn addition to the various electoral systems in use in the political sphere, there are numerous others, some of which are proposals and some of which have been adopted for usage in business (such as electing corporate board members) or for organisations but not for public elections.\n\nRanked systems include Bucklin voting, the various Condorcet methods (Copeland's, Dodgson's, Kemeny-Young, Maximal lotteries, Minimax, Nanson's, Ranked pairs, Schulze), the Coombs' method and positional voting. There are also several variants of single transferable vote, including CPO-STV, Schulze STV and the Wright system. Dual-member proportional representation is a proposed system with two candidates elected in each constituency, one with the most votes and one to ensure proportionality of the combined results. Biproportional apportionment is a system whereby the total number of votes is used to calculate the number of seats each party is due, followed by a calculation of the constituencies in which the seats should be awarded in order to achieve the total due to them.\n\nCardinal electoral systems allow voters to score candidates independently. The complexity ranges from approval voting where voters simply state whether they approve of a candidate or not to range voting, where a candidate is scored from a set range of numbers. Other cardinal systems include Proportional approval voting, sequential proportional approval voting, Satisfaction approval voting and majority judgment.\n\nHistorically, weighted voting systems were used in some countries. These allocated a greater weight to the votes of some voters than others, either indirectly by allocating more seats to certain groups (such as the Prussian three-class franchise), or by weighting the results of the vote. The latter system was used in colonial Rhodesia for the 1962 and 1965 elections. The elections featured two voter rolls (the 'A' roll being largely European and the 'B' roll largely African); the seats of the House Assembly were divided into 50 constituency seats and 15 district seats. Although all voters could vote for both types of seats, 'A' roll votes were given greater weight for the constituency seats and 'B' roll votes greater weight for the district seats. Weighted systems are still used in corporate elections, with votes weighted to reflect stock ownership.\n\nIn addition to the specific method of electing candidates, electoral systems are also characterised by their wider rules and regulations, which are usually set out in a country's constitution or electoral law. Participatory rules determine candidate nomination and voter registration, in addition to the location of polling places and the availability of online voting, postal voting, and absentee voting. Other regulations include the selection of voting devices such as paper ballots, machine voting or open ballot systems, and consequently the type of vote counting systems, verification and auditing used.\n\nElectoral rules place limits on suffrage and candidacy. Most countries's electorates are characterised by universal suffrage, but there are differences on the age at which people are allowed to vote, with the youngest being 16 and the oldest 21 (although voters must be 25 to vote in Senate elections in Italy). People may be disenfranchised for a range of reasons, such as being a serving prisoner, being declared bankrupt, having committed certain crimes or being a serving member of the armed forces. Similar limits are placed on candidacy (also known as passive suffrage), and in many cases the age limit for candidates is higher than the voting age. A total of 21 countries have compulsory voting, although in some there is an upper age limit on enforcement of the law. Many countries also have the none of the above option on their ballot papers.\n\nIn systems that use constituencies, apportionment or districting defines the area covered by each constituency. Where constituency boundaries are drawn has a strong influence on the likely outcome of elections in the constituency due to the geographic distribution of voters. Political parties may seek to gain an advantage during redistricting by ensuring their voter base has a majority in as many constituencies as possible, a process known as gerrymandering. Historically rotten and pocket boroughs, constituencies with unusually small populations, were used by wealthy families to gain parliamentary representation.\n\nSome countries have minimum turnout requirements for elections to be valid. In Serbia this rule caused multiple re-runs of presidential elections, with the 1997 election re-run once and the 2002 elections re-run three times due insufficient turnout in the first, second and third attempts to run the election. The turnout requirement was scrapped prior to the fourth vote in 2004. Similar problems in Belarus led to the 1995 parliamentary elections going to a fourth round of voting before enough parliamentarains were elected to make a quorum.\n\nReserved seats are used in many countries to ensure representation for ethnic minorities, women, young people or the disabled. These seats are separate from general seats, and may be elected separately (such as in Morocco where a separate ballot is used to elect the 60 seats reserved for women and 30 seats reserved for young people in the House of Representatives), or be allocated to parties based on the results of the election; in Jordan the reserved seats for women are given to the female candidates who failed to win constituency seats but with the highest number of votes, whilst in Kenya the Senate seats reserved for women, young people and the disabled are allocated to parties based on how many seats they won in the general vote. Some countries achieve minority representation by other means, including requirements for a certain proportion of candidates to be women, or by exempting minority parties from the electoral threshold, as is done in Poland, Romania and Serbia.\n\nIn ancient Greece and Italy, the institution of suffrage already existed in a rudimentary form at the outset of the historical period. In the early monarchies it was customary for the king to invite pronouncements of his people on matters in which it was prudent to secure its assent beforehand. In these assemblies the people recorded their opinion by clamouring (a method which survived in Sparta as late as the 4th century BCE), or by the clashing of spears on shields. \n\nVoting has been used as a feature of democracy since the 6th century BC, when democracy was introduced by the Athenian democracy. However, in Athenian democracy, voting was seen as the least democratic among methods used for selecting public officials, and was little used, because elections were believed to inherently favor the wealthy and well-known over average citizens. Viewed as more democratic were assemblies open to all citizens, and selection by lot (known as sortition), as well as rotation of office.\n\nGenerally, the taking of votes was effected in the form of a poll. The practice of the Athenians, which is shown by inscriptions to have been widely followed in the other states of Greece, was to hold a show of hands, except on questions affecting the status of individuals: these latter, which included all lawsuits and proposals of ostracism, in which voters chose the citizen they most wanted to exile for ten years, were determined by secret ballot (one of the earliest recorded elections in Athens was a plurality vote that it was undesirable to win, namely an ostracism vote). At Rome the method which prevailed up to the 2nd century BCE was that of division (). But the system became subject to intimidation and corruption. Hence a series of laws enacted between 139 and 107 BCE prescribed the use of the ballot (), a slip of wood coated with wax, for all business done in the assemblies of the people. \nFor the purpose of carrying resolutions a simple majority of votes was deemed sufficient. As a general rule equal value was made to attach to each vote; but in the popular assemblies at Rome a system of voting by groups was in force until the middle of the 3rd century BCE by which the richer classes secured a decisive preponderance.\n\nMost elections in the early history of democracy were held using plurality voting or some variant, but as an exception, the state of Venice in the 13th century adopted approval voting to elect their Great Council.\nThe Venetians' method for electing the Doge was a particularly convoluted process, consisting of five rounds of drawing lots (sortition) and five rounds of approval voting. By drawing lots, a body of 30 electors was chosen, which was further reduced to nine electors by drawing lots again. An electoral college of nine members elected 40 people by approval voting; those 40 were reduced to form a second electoral college of 12 members by drawing lots again. The second electoral college elected 25 people by approval voting, which were reduced to form a third electoral college of nine members by drawing lots. The third electoral college elected 45 people, which were reduced to form a fourth electoral college of 11 by drawing lots. They in turn elected a final electoral body of 41 members, who ultimately elected the Doge. Despite its complexity, the method had certain desirable properties such as being hard to game and ensuring that the winner reflected the opinions of both majority and minority factions. This process, with slight modifications, was central to the politics of the Republic of Venice throughout its remarkable lifespan of over 500 years, from 1268 to 1797.\n\nJean-Charles de Borda proposed the Borda count in 1770 as a method for electing members to the French Academy of Sciences. His method was opposed by the Marquis de Condorcet, who proposed instead the method of pairwise comparison that he had devised. Implementations of this method are known as Condorcet methods. He also wrote about the Condorcet paradox, which he called the \"intransitivity of majority preferences\". However, recent research has shown that the philosopher Ramon Llull devised both the Borda count and a pairwise method that satisfied the Condorcet criterion in the 13th century. The manuscripts in which he described these methods had been lost to history until they were rediscovered in 2001.\n\nLater in the 18th century, apportionment methods came to prominence due to the United States Constitution, which mandated that seats in the United States House of Representatives had to be allocated among the states proportionally to their population, but did not specify how to do so. A variety of methods were proposed by statesmen such as Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, and Daniel Webster. Some of the apportionment methods devised in the United States were in a sense rediscovered in Europe in the 19th century, as seat allocation methods for the newly proposed method of party-list proportional representation. The result is that many apportionment methods have two names; \"Jefferson's method\" is equivalent to the d'Hondt method, as is \"Webster's method\" to the Sainte-Laguë method, while \"Hamilton's method\" is identical to the Hare largest remainder method.\n\nThe single transferable vote (STV) method was devised by Carl Andræ in Denmark in 1855 and in the United Kingdom by Thomas Hare in 1857. STV elections were first held in Denmark in 1856, and in Tasmania in 1896 after its use was promoted by Andrew Inglis Clark. Party-list proportional representation began to be used to elect European legislatures in the early 20th century, with Belgium the first to implement it for its 1900 general elections. Since then, proportional and semi-proportional methods have come to be used in almost all democratic countries, with most exceptions being former British colonies.\n\nPerhaps influenced by the rapid development of multiple-winner electoral systems, theorists began to publish new findings about single-winner methods in the late 19th century. This began around 1870, when William Robert Ware proposed applying STV to single-winner elections, yielding instant-runoff voting (IRV). Soon, mathematicians began to revisit Condorcet's ideas and invent new methods for Condorcet completion; Edward J. Nanson combined the newly described instant runoff voting with the Borda count to yield a new Condorcet method called Nanson's method. Charles Dodgson, better known as Lewis Carroll, proposed the straightforward Condorcet method known as Dodgson's method as well as a proportional multiwinner method based on proxy voting.\n\nRanked voting electoral systems eventually gathered enough support to be adopted for use in government elections. In Australia, IRV was first adopted in 1893, and continues to be used along with STV today. In the United States in the early-20th-century progressive era, some municipalities began to use Bucklin voting, although this is no longer used in any government elections, and has even been declared unconstitutional in Minnesota.\n\nThe use of game theory to analyze electoral systems led to discoveries about the effects of certain methods. Earlier developments such as Arrow's impossibility theorem had already shown the issues with Ranked voting systems. Research led Steven Brams and Peter Fishburn to formally define and promote the use of approval voting in 1977. Political scientists of the 20th century published many studies on the effects that the electoral systems have on voters' choices and political parties, and on political stability. A few scholars also studied which effects caused a nation to switch to a particular electoral system. One prominent current voting theorist is Nicolaus Tideman, who formalized concepts such as strategic nomination and the spoiler effect in the independence of clones criterion. Tideman also devised the ranked pairs method, a Condorcet method that is not susceptible to clones.\n\nThe study of electoral systems influenced a new push for electoral reform beginning around the 1990s, with proposals being made to replace plurality voting in governmental elections with other methods. New Zealand adopted mixed-member proportional representation for the 1993 general elections and STV for some local elections in 2004. After plurality voting was a key factor in the contested results of the 2000 presidential elections in the United States, various municipalities in the United States began to adopt IRV, although some of them subsequently returned to their prior method. However, attempts at introducing more proportional systems were not always successful; in Canada there were two referendums in British Columbia in 2005 and 2009 on adopting an STV method, both of which failed. In the United Kingdom, a 2011 referendum on adopting Instant-runoff voting saw the proposal rejected.\n\nIn other countries there were calls for the restoration of plurality or majoritarian systems or their establishment where they have never been used; a referendum was held in Ecuador in 1994 on the adoption the two round system, but the idea was rejected. In Romania a proposal to switch to a two-round system for parliamentary elections failed only because voter turnout in the referendum was too low. Attempts to reintroduce single-member constituencies in Poland (2015) and two-round system in Bulgaria (2016) via referendums both also failed due to low turnout.\n\nElectoral systems can be compared by different means. Attitudes towards systems are highly influenced by the systems' impact on groups that one supports or opposes, which can make the objective comparison of voting systems difficult. There are several ways to address this problem:\n\nOne approach is to define criteria mathematically, such that any electoral system either passes or fails. This gives perfectly objective results, but their practical relevance is still arguable.\n\nAnother approach is to define ideal criteria that no electoral system passes perfectly, and then see how often or how close to passing various methods are over a large sample of simulated elections. This gives results which are practically relevant, but the method of generating the sample of simulated elections can still be arguably biased.\n\nA final approach is to create imprecisely defined criteria, and then assign a neutral body to evaluate each method according to these criteria. This approach can look at aspects of electoral systems which the other two approaches miss, but both the definitions of these criteria and the evaluations of the methods are still inevitably subjective.\n\nArrow's and Gibbard's theorems prove that no system using ranked voting or cardinal voting, can meet all such criteria simultaneously. Instead of debating the importance of different criteria, another method is to simulate many elections with different electoral systems, and estimate the typical overall happiness of the population with the results, their vulnerability to strategic voting, their likelihood of electing the candidate closest to the average voter, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6126644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6126644", "title": "Embassy of Serbia, Vienna", "text": "Embassy of Serbia, Vienna\n\nThe Embassy of Serbia in Vienna (, ) is Serbia's diplomatic mission to Austria. It is located at Ölzeltgasse 3, in Vienna, Austria.\n\nThe current Serbian ambassador to Austria is Pero Janković.\n\nSerbia also maintains the Consulate General in Salzburg, currently under the Consul General Zoran Jeremić. There also Permanent Mission to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe and United Nations under Chargé d'Affaires Miroslava Beham in Vienna. Serbia closed the Consulate General in Graz which was inherited from Yugoslavia.\n\nEmbassy of Serbia in Vienna used to be situated in the historic Palais Hoyos until 2011 when the building was handed over to Croatia as part of Yugoslav succession. The palace was built at the end of the 19th century by Otto Wagner, together with two outbuildings. The palace was built in the style of the Historicism, the facade was held to the Rococo and Jugendstil. In 1957 the palace of Hoyos in Rennweg was sold from the immovable of the family Hoyos to Yugoslavia which furnished it in the Embassy of Yugoslavia in Austria. After dissolution of Yugoslavia, the building went over in the possession of Serbia. In 2009 the palace was thoroughly restored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31836847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31836847", "title": "Environmental governance in Brazil", "text": "Environmental governance in Brazil\n\nEnvironmental governance is a concept in environmental policy that steers markets, technology and society towards achieving the goal of sustainability. It considers social, economic and environmental aspects in the decision making of its policies.\n\nBrazil is currently developing at an incredibly fast rate, only out-performed by countries such as China and India, both in terms of economic growth and recovery rate after the global financial crisis in the late 2000s. The saying that “Brazil is the country of the future...and it always will be” has haunted Brazil for decades. But recent economic policy changes, made since the founding of the New Republic, have allowed Brazil to start gaining international confidence. This was epitomised when American President Barack Obama stated that “The people of Brazil should know that the future has arrived” during a visit to Rio de Janeiro in March 2011. Brazil is also no longer referred to as a developing country, but as an emerging country, a newly industrialised country (NIC) and as a member of the BRIC economies. But with this fast economic growth rate comes huge responsibility in terms of sustainability. Brazil’s economic growth is supported by the huge demand of natural resources from China, resources that Brazil has in abundance. Brazil is currently successfully matching the needs of China’s manufacturing industry and with huge investments currently being made to sustain this demand from China, Brazil is building new ports and airports and increasing the capacity of its current ones.\n\nHowever, this vast extraction of natural resources is coming at a price for the natural environment. Former Environment Minister Marina Silva resigned in 2008 as she felt the Brazilian government was prioritizing the interests of big businesses and the economy, and felt she was fighting a losing battle to protect many of Brazil’s natural environments, including the Amazon Rainforest.\n\nDespite these claims, Brazil has been praised for its environmental sustainability efforts and attempts to reduce its carbon emissions. The Brazilian government created the Ministry of the Environment (MMA) in 1985 and following this, organisations have been created, such as IBAMA in 1989, with the aim to protect the natural environment. Brazil has also taken a front seat with regards to global environmental governance by jointly creating and presiding the Megadiverse Like-Minded Countries Group, which includes 70% of the world’s living biodiversity and 45% of the world’s population.\n\nIn 1981, the Brazilian government put into force the National Environmental Policy (NEP), through Law No. 6938. The main objective of this policy is to establish standards that make sustainable development possible, using mechanisms and instruments that are capable of ensuring greater protection for the environment. The NEP covers many environmental issues, including the definition of standards, licensing, environmental impact assessments, special areas for preservation, incentives for cleaner production, and environmental zoning. The guidelines of this policy are developed through standards and plans to guide public bodies of the Brazilian federation, in accordance with the ten principles stated in Article 2 of Law 6938. These principles are as follows:\n\n\nThe twelve instruments of the National Environmental Policy used to promote environment protection are presented in Article 9 of the Law, and are as follows:\n\nBrazil is the world’s fifth-largest country and therefore ensuring that economic development takes place in a manner that is sustainable and that does not cause environmental degradation is an enormous task. To tackle this, the NEP created the National Environment System (SISNAMA), which brings together agencies and environmental institutions of the Union, the states, the municipalities and the Federal District, and whose primary purpose is to put in place the principles and norms that are imposed by the constitution. The head of this system’s structure is the National Government Council, which is the top advisory body, of the Brazilian President, for formulating the guidelines and national environmental policies. Below this comes the National Environment Council (CONAMA), which is the agency that advises the national government and deliberates over rules and standards suitable for protecting the environment, which must be followed by state and municipal governments. Following this comes the Ministry of the Environment (MMA), which plans, coordinates, supervises and controls the national environmental policy and guidelines established for the environment, performing the task of holding together the various agencies and entities that comprise the SISNAMA. Tied to the MMA is the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA), which formulates, coordinates, supervises, manages, promotes and enforces the NEP and the preservation and conservation of natural resources. And finally, at the bottom of the SISNAMA structure are the local municipal and state agencies responsible for inspecting environmentally degrading activities and for implementing programs, projects and monitoring activities harmful to the environment.\n\nBrazil’s natural environment is still suffering from the effects of the aggressive policy of demographic occupation and economic development created by a geographical strategy of regional integration, enforced during the military government from 1964 to 1985. The aim of this was to ease the population pressure in the heavily populated southeast region of Brazil, to create jobs and make use of Brazil’s vast supply of natural resources. This brought many migrants to the Amazon Basin (especially in the states of Rondônia, Mato Grosso, and Pará), and the infrastructure and town expansions that came with this migration has put a lot of pressure on the Amazon Forest, which has suffered significantly from deforestation. Reversing this problem is a difficult task as it involves removing the population which has now established itself in these environments and encouraging less investment and development to occur in these places, in order to protect the natural environment. The creation of the NEP, during the military government’s rule is possibly a response to environmental NGOs’ constant pressure on not only the national government, but also on international creditors, in an effort to reduce further environmental degradation, during this period of demographic occupation.\n\nPersonal interests and economic pressures are significant barriers to successful environmental governance and removing bias from decision making is of utmost importance in order to preserve sustainability. The foundation of environmental policy making in Brazil is scientific knowledge. However, studies have suggested that, in some cases, policymakers in Brazil are inclined to use scientific evidence that supports their decisions, instead of deliberating over all the scientific knowledge available.\n\nAn important part of establishing Brazil’s competitiveness on the world market is by being in line with the global market requirements. Many of Brazil’s chemical facilities have received ISO 14000 certification and several more are close to being certified. The motivation behind this is Brazil’s desire to boost its image on the international market and to increase trade with foreign partners. Brazil also participates on the technical committee of the ISO 14000 standards.\n\nEnvironmental governance in Brazil tends to be carried out with a top-down approach, whereby the government puts in place legislation that markets have to abide to. This command-and-control approach has sometimes led to tensions between the governments, business and local communities. An example of this is the establishment of marine and coastal protected areas in Brazil. Restrictions are often imposed on artisanal fisheries without any involvement of the local communities in the decision making, and the negative impact on the livelihood of these local communities has resulted in several conflicts. The ecological resilience of coastal fisheries is also said to be affected by the top-down approach of creating reserves. The lack of local involvement, public participation and co-management is thought to limit ecological resilience and reduce the effectiveness of the coastal reserves in protecting wildlife numbers.\n\nBrazil has a vast supply of fresh water with some of the largest river basins in the world (Amazon River, Paraná River and São Francisco River). Protecting this natural resource is not only of ecological important, but also social and economic, as many cities and populated areas of Brazil depend on them as a source of clean water. A water governance option in Brazil to manage this issue is the National Water Resource Policy (NWRP), which was established in 1997 after more than a decade of congressional discussion. The NWRP aims to promote water as a resource with economic value and “creates structures for integrated governance of all water uses at the level of the hydrographic basin – river basin councils (RBCs) – that work in tandem with more traditional management such as municipal and state water and environmental agencies”. However, it has been argued that this policy has focused excessively on top-down strategies, such as the introduction of water pricing and environmental charges, instead of addressing public mobilisation, river restoration and environmental justice.\n\nDespite the predominant top-down approach of environmental governance in Brazil, there are cases where NGOs, companies, governments, and research institutions have joined together to promote ecological restoration. The Atlantic Forest Restoration Pact (AFRP) is an example of this. The AFRP aims to restore 15 million hectares of the degraded and fragmented Atlantic Forest by 2050 by promoting: biodiversity conservation, and job growth through the restoration supply chain, and establishing incentives for landowners to comply with the Forest Act. This demonstrates environmental NGOs’ use of national legislation (especially environmental zoning) in order to promote environmental protection and sustainability in Brazil.\n\nBrazil’s large industrial and economic output, together with the fact that it hosts some of the world’s largest natural resources make it a key player in global climate change governance. In late 2009, Carlos Minc, the Brazilian Minister of Environment, announced plans to reduce deforestation in Brazil by 80% by 2020, which corresponds to a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Brazil has used its growing international influence to ensure developed countries fulfil their promises of transferring technologies and financing global development, with the aim of protecting the environment and promoting sustainability.\n\nThere have been suggestions of implementing LCE in order to reduce possible environmental impacts and risks to human life, while still offering economic viability and social equity. This technique uses engineering tools and concepts in order to promote greater economic sustainability. These tools include eco-design and lifecycle assessment, clean production techniques, reverse logistics, disassembly, recycling, remanufacturing, reuse and geographical information systems (GIS).\n\nBiofuels are seen as an important route to sustainable development, but involve intense agricultural activity and therefore must be carefully planned and managed. Brazil is one of the world’s leading biofuel producers and importers. Brazil’s Environment Minister Izabella Teixeira claims that “biofuel production in Brazil is driven by public policies that seek to increase its production in a sustainable manner, conserving nature, creating jobs and sharing the benefits among the population”. The Environment Minister also claimed that “the strategy of boosting ethanol and biodiesel production is founded on a combination of two important management tools and agricultural and environmental planning: Ecological and Economic Zoning and Agro-Ecological Zoning”. These strategies were put in place by the NEP and the case with biofuels demonstrates how the NEP instruments can be applied successfully to the economy, whilst at the same time promoting sustainability.\n\n"}
{"id": "38308246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38308246", "title": "European Christian Political Foundation", "text": "European Christian Political Foundation\n\nThe European Christian Political Foundation (ECPF) is a Political foundation at European level, and the official foundation/think tank of the European Christian Political Movement (ECPM), founded in 2011.\nThe ECPF supports and underpins the ECPM especially in terms of political content by European co-operation and the introduction of analysis, ideas and policy options. The ECPF shares the basic program and Christian values of the ECPM. As association the ECPF welcomes thinktanks, NGO’s and individual politicians as members if they agree with these values and the Christian-democrat principles as expressed in the basic program.\n\nThe ECPF is based in Amersfoort, Netherlands. President of the board is Davis Fieldsend from the United Kingdom. \n\n"}
{"id": "27403431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27403431", "title": "H. Selby Msimang", "text": "H. Selby Msimang\n\nHenry Selby Msimang (13 June 1886 - 29 March 1982) was a South African political leader and activist.\n\nAfter attending primary school at Edendale he qualified as a teacher at Healdtown in 1907. He became a court interpreter in 1908 and then worked as a postmaster in Krugersdorp. In 1913 became the secretary of the anti-Natives Land Act committee. He became court interpreter at Vrede in 1914 and promoted the employment of African clerks and dip inspectors in the Free State. He joined the African National Congress at its inception.\n\nIn 1919 he helped to establish the Industrial and Commercial Workers' Union in Bloemfontein, and edited a newspaper called\n\"Messenger-Morumioa\". He returned to Johannesburg in 1922, and to Pietermaritzburg in 1941, where he was secretary of the Natal ANC, and then joined the Liberal Party in 1953. He was a founding member of the Liberal Party and a member of the National Committee. He was a lay preacher in the Methodist Church. He died in 1982 aged 95.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43225341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43225341", "title": "Hungarian Association of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing", "text": "Hungarian Association of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing\n\nThe Hungarian Association of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (SINOSZ) was founded in 1907. Its headquarters are located in Budapest, Hungary. The goal of this association is to improve the lives and access to education of deaf and hard of hearing Hungarians.\nSINOSZ provides various services for the deaf and hard of hearing and their families, such as legal consultation, communication courses, audiology centers, and help paperwork/applications. \n\nSINOSZ is a member of World Federation of the Deaf (WFD), European Union of the Deaf (EUD), International Federation of Hard of Hearing People (IFHOH), and European Federation of Hard of Hearing People (EFHOH). \n\n"}
{"id": "54232326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54232326", "title": "List of U.K. political slogans", "text": "List of U.K. political slogans\n\nIn the United Kingdom, political slogans and memorable phrases are used during election campaigns to put across messages and rally support. Slogans used by political parties often centre around current issues of the day or policies they wish to address.\n\nIn deciding whether to remain or leave the single market, parties rallied behind \"Yes\" and \"No\" messages.\nIn 2016 the United Kingdom's referendum on membership of the European Union saw political parties align into two camps; Leave and Remain. Messages on the Leave side focused on themes such as regaining sovereignty and the benefits of leaving the EU, while the Remain sides argued benefits of staying and the dangers of leaving.\n"}
{"id": "18789304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18789304", "title": "Low Dutch Station", "text": "Low Dutch Station\n\nLow Dutch Station was established in 1780 on the middle fork of Beargrass Creek in Kentucky. This station was settled by Dutch pioneers from Pennsylvania and was also known as New Holland Station. The\nstation was one of a group of six forts established on Beargrass Creek during this period in this area that is now a part of Louisville. The leader of the group was Hendrick Banta. The group of settlers were a part of the \"Low Dutch Company\" and had their own bylaws, a formal charter, and accounting procedures. The group had as its purpose the preservation of the language, culture and religion of the Dutch. The Dutch traveled from a settlement near Harrodsburg to Low Dutch Station.\n\nThere is no connection between Low Dutch Station or its settlers and the nearby road known as Dutchmans Lane in St. Matthews. The aforementioned Dutchmans Lane was originally named Deutschman's Lane, taking its name from the fact that it was the access road from Taylorsville Road to the farm owned and operated by Louis J. Hollenbach Sr., a prominent German-American businessman in early 20th-century Louisville. Anti-German sentiment in Louisville during World War I prompted the shortening of the name from Deutschman ( \"German man\") to Dutchman.\n\n"}
{"id": "34546638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34546638", "title": "Ministry of Defence and Veterans Affairs (South Sudan)", "text": "Ministry of Defence and Veterans Affairs (South Sudan)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence and Veterans Affairs is a ministry of the Government of South Sudan. The incumbent minister is Kuol Manyang Juuk.\n"}
{"id": "46909862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46909862", "title": "Ministry of Education (Tunisia)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Tunisia)\n\nThe Ministry of Education is responsible for the administration of education in Tunisia. It has its headquarters at Boulevard Bab Bnet 1030 in Tunis. As of 2015 it was directed by Néji Jalloul.In May 2017, the government sacked Jalloul from his position, to appoint Slim Khalbous instead.\n\nThe department is responsible for ensuring the right to education and training of all Tunisians according to law No. 2002-80 of 23 July 2002 on education. It pays special attention to children with special needs and those of Tunisian nationals abroad. The department facilitates public education and training systems and institutions and structures on a local, regional and national scale, and also overlooks private schools and preschooling.\n"}
{"id": "11941403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11941403", "title": "Mogadishu Line", "text": "Mogadishu Line\n\nThe Mogadishu Line is the point at which foreign involvement in a conflict shifts from peacekeeping or diplomacy to combat operations. The term often comes about in reference to the reluctance of international actors to intervene militarily in another state for humanitarian reasons, due to a fear of combat operations that have a high human cost.\n\nThe term is a reference to the external intervention in the Somali Civil War, in which several opposing factions engaged in a struggle to seize control of the state. In April 1992, following calls for action by UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the UN Security Council approved the commencement of humanitarian operations into Somalia, which initially involved a small contingent of UN-approved troops (UNOSOM) followed in December by a US-dominated military force UNITAF.\n\nIn March 1993, the UN Security Council authorized a new mission, UNOSOM II, endowed with enforcement powers under Chapter VII of the UN Charter to establish a secure environment throughout Somalia. However, operations turned sour following the Battle of Mogadishu on October 3, 1993, when US forces attempted to launch an attack on the Olympic Hotel in search of Mohamed Farrah Aidid. The subsequent combat resulted in the deaths of 18 US soldiers and a further 83 casualties. After the battle, the bodies of several US casualties of the conflict were dragged through the streets of Mogadishu by crowds of local civilians and members of Aidid's Somali National Alliance.\n\nFollowing the disastrous battle, pressure immediately built for a withdrawal of US troops. President Clinton said in the days after that \"our mission from this day forward is to increase our strength, do our job, bring our soldiers out and bring them home\", before announcing that troops would be withdrawn by mid-1994.\n\nThe concept of the Mogadishu Line became ingrained in post-Cold War international relations discourse. Fear of a repeat of the events in Somalia shaped US policy in subsequent years, with many commentators identifying the graphic consequences of the Battle of Mogadishu as the key reason behind the US's failure to intervene in later conflicts such as the Rwandan Genocide of 1994. According to the US's former deputy special envoy to Somalia, Walter Clarke: \"The ghosts of Somalia continue to haunt US policy. Our lack of response in Rwanda was a fear of getting involved in something like a Somalia all over again.\"\n\nClinton also refused to mobilize US ground troops in fighting the Bosnian Serb Army in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1995 and the Yugoslav Army in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (specifically, the then-province of Kosovo) in 1999.\n\nIn the 1990s, General Michael Rose, head of the United Nations Protection Force, insisted that the United Nations would never \"cross the Mogadishu Line\". However, Rose's replacement, Rupert Smith, came to the conclusion that UNPROFOR's humanitarian mandate was insufficient.\n\nIn 2003, Keane opined that changes in U.S. policy toward Liberia suggested that the Mogadishu Line had been \"erased.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50032175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50032175", "title": "National Audit Department (Malaysia)", "text": "National Audit Department (Malaysia)\n\nThe National Audit Department is an independent government agency in Malaysia that is responsible for carrying out the audits on the accounts of Federal Government, State Government and Federal Statutory Bodies as well as the activities of the Ministry/Department/Agency and Companies under the Federal and State Government.\n\n"}
{"id": "49977929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49977929", "title": "National Democratic Party (Ireland)", "text": "National Democratic Party (Ireland)\n\nThe National Democratic Party was a minor party in the Irish Free State representing small farming interests.\n\nThe Farmers' Party was a significant force in early 1920s politics in Ireland, but it was associated with middle-class farmers with larger holdings. Small-scale farmers who felt that the Farmers' Party did not represent them founded the National Democratic Party early in 1923, aiming to also attract support from poor labourers and other individuals in rural areas.\n\nThe party announced that it would stand fifteen candidates at the 1923 general election, Ultimately, it stood only four candidates: Joseph O'Mahony in Cork West, Joseph Delaney and Patrick Belton in Laois–Offaly, and Seán O'Farrell in Longford–Westmeath. They took only 4,966 votes between them, and none were elected. The party disbanded soon after the election.\n"}
{"id": "3731769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3731769", "title": "National Forest Management Act of 1976", "text": "National Forest Management Act of 1976\n\nThe National Forest Management Act (NFMA) of 1976 (P.L. 94-588) is a United States federal law that is the primary statute governing the administration of national forests and was an amendment to the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974, which called for the management of renewable resources on national forest lands. The law was a response to lawsuits involving various practices in the national forest, including timber harvesting., Zieske v Butz was the lawsuit brought by members of the Pt Baker Association on Prince of Wales Island against the US Forest Service's first environmental impact statement. The suit halted logging on the NW tip of the island which consisted of 400,000 acres and resulted in a call by the timber industry for Congressional action to undo the lawsuit.\n\nThe main objectives of NFMA are to require the U.S. Forest Service to develop plans for national forests, set standards for timber sales, and create policies to regulate timber harvesting. The purpose of these objectives is to protect national forests from permanent damages from excessive logging and clear cutting. Congress requires the Forest Service, in conjunction with other applicable agencies, to thoroughly assess, research, and plan for the nation's renewable resource use, the current demand, anticipated demands, and environmental and economic impacts.\n\nNFMA changed forest planning by obliging the United States Forest Service to use a systematic and interdisciplinary approach to resource management. It also provided for public involvement in preparing and revising forest plans. Also, NFMA established and expanded several Forest Service trust funds and special accounts. It expanded upon the land and resource management plans (L/RMPs) outlined in the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (RPA), and started by requiring the Forest Service to do an inventory of all its lands, followed by a zoning process to see what uses land was best suited for - dubbed the \"suitability determination.\" These plans required alternative land management options to be presented, each of which have potential resource outputs (timber, range, mining, recreation) as well as socio-economic effects on local communities. The Forest Service, in cooperation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), contributed considerable resources to the creation of FORPLAN (a linear programming model used to estimate the land management resource outputs) and IMPLAN to estimate the economic effects of these outputs on local communities.\nAt the time NFMA was written, there were conflicting interests in regards to proper forest management. The major player of national forest management at the time was the timber industry. In a post World War II economy, the demand for timber skyrocketed with the housing boom and people were recreating on public lands more than ever before. Visitors to national parks rose from 50 million in 1950 to 72 million in 1960. The Sierra Club and other conservation groups were also fighting for preservation of natural landscapes. The Multiple-Use Sustained-Yield Act of 1960 made it clear that the Forest Service had to manage for non-timber values, like recreation, range, watershed, wildlife and fishery purposes, but it was not until NFMA that these uses were embodied by the forest planning process.\n\nThe 1982 NFMA Planning Regulations describe a planning process designed to integrate the many interests concerning the forest:\n\n\nAccording to the National Forest Service, some of the key events in implementation of the act were the following:\n\n1976 - NFMA was enacted.\n\n1979 - First planning regulations established.\n\n1982 - Revised NFMA planning regulations established.\n\n1989 - Comprehensive review conducted on land management of the Forest Service.\n\n1993 - First revision of forest plan conducted.\n\n1997 - A 13-member Committee of Scientists met to analyze and recommend methods for the Forest Service to improve management of national forests and grasslands. Report was released in 1999.\n\n2000 - The 2000 Planning Rule published. The 2000 Planning Rule caused major backlash from the public. A review was conducted by the Department of Agriculture and found that the rule had considerable flaws.\n\n2002 - Forest Service publishes the 2002 Proposed Planning Rule.\n\n2004 - The Forest Service published the Interpretive Rule. The Interpretive Rule clarifies to the public that while a new rule is formulated, the procedures from the 1982 rule are still applicable to forest plans.\n\n2005 - The 2005 Planning Rule was published.\n\n2008 - The 2008 Planning Rule and an EIS on the rule was published.\n\n2009 - The 2008 Planning Rule was overturned by the U.S. District Court for Northern California. The Forest Service was to return to the 2000 rule while new rules are formulated.\n\n2012 - The 2012 Planning Rule was published. The process of formulating this Planning Rule began in 2009.\n\nNFMA has spawned lawsuits regarding the degree of involvement required by both the Forest Service and the public. NFMA does not have a citizen suit provision. Judicial review must fall under the Administrative Procedure Act. Judicial review under NFMA can happen in two common ways: 1) challenges over various forest plans as violating NFMA or 2) judicial review over specific actions or occurrences such as timber sales.\n\nStein v Barton\n\nIn 1990, the Alaska District Court held that the US Forest Service's plan for Prince of Wales Island was arbitrary and capricious for rejecting 100 foot buffer strips on both sides of salmon streams when clearcutting.\n\nSeattle Audubon Society v. Evans\n\nUnder statute 16 U.S.C. 1604(h) of NFMA, the Forest Service is required to develop plans with independent scientists that considers biodiversity. The regulation required that planning \"provide for diversity of plant and animal communities based on the suitability and capability of the specific land area in order to meet overall multiple-use objectives, and within the multiple-use objectives of a land management plan adopted pursuant to this section, provide, where appropriate, to the degree practicable, for steps to be taken to preserve the diversity of tree species similar to that existing in the region controlled by the plan.\" This regulation became known as the \"viability regulation.\"\n\nThe viability regulation required that habitat of fish and wildlife are managed to hold a healthy population of native species and some \"desired\" non-native species. Indicator species were chosen for monitoring to ensure habitat conditions are stable.\n\nThe Northern Spotted Owl was designated an indicator species in the old growth forests in the Pacific Northwest. In this region, environmental preservation efforts were thoroughly involved throughout the community yet timber harvesting was still a key economic dependency. In 1991, the \"Seattle Audubon Society v. Evans\" case maintained that the Forest Service must still comply with NFMA requirements even though the Northern Spotted Owl had been listed \"threatened\" under Endangered Species Act (ESA). The Forest Service claimed that once the owls became part of the Endangered Species Act's duties, it was then relieved of its own duties to maintain the viability of its population.\n\nOhio Forestry Association v. Sierra Club\n\nThe Sierra Club claimed that the logging practices allowed in the Wayne National Forest in Southeast Ohio were unlawful under NFMA because the Act requires ongoing input and management from the Forest Service. According to the Sierra Club, plan in the Wayne National Forest permitted too much logging and clearcutting. The Court rejected the claims of the Sierra Club and stated the Forest Service is not an agency required to perform ongoing action or involvement in the forest plans. Justice Breyer concluded that the \"controversy is not yet ripe for judicial review.\"\n\nSierra Club v. Marita, 1995\n\nThe Forest Service issued two land and resource management plans for national forests in Wisconsin that both involved timber harvest. To monitor ecosystem health, the Forest Service chose a handful of management indicator species as proxies, but the Sierra Club argued that a mosaic-like logging of the national forests would not provide the wildlife corridor necessary to ensure appropriate biodiversity of those species or any others. The Sierra Club attacked the Forest Service's science behind their L/RMP, calling it \"junk science\". Ultimately, the court ruled in favor of agency discretion despite finding that the Forest Service used questionable science, though not to the degree that their decision could be considered arbitrary and capricious under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA).\n\nBig Thorne Project\n\nEnvironmental groups claimed that the Forest Service violated National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) and NFMA, and the 2008 Amended Tongass National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan. The Big Thorne Project involved allowance of logging of old growth forests and construction of new roads in the Tongass National Forest. The court rejected claims from environmental groups, saying that the Forest Service's assessments and actions were reasonable.\n\n"}
{"id": "55334175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55334175", "title": "National Inventory of Dams", "text": "National Inventory of Dams\n\nThe National Inventory of Dams (NID) is a congressionally authorized database documenting dams in the United States and its territories. It is maintained and published by the US Army Corps of Engineers. It contains information about each dam's location, size, purpose, type, last inspection and regulatory facts.\n"}
{"id": "38401506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38401506", "title": "Normandy Youth Club–The N-Factor", "text": "Normandy Youth Club–The N-Factor\n\nThe Normandy Youth Club–The N-Factor was founded in the United Kingdom in July 2008, and launched in January 2009 to help combat the increasing incidents of youth crime in Normandy, Surrey and its surrounding hamlets.\n\nAfter a gap of not having an area youth club for over two decades Mrs Maria Angel MBE, BA (Hons) Bus & Mgt, PGCE, QTLS, FCMI, a School and Sixth Form teacher, recognised the lack of out of school hours youth leisure facilities within the parish of Normandy, Surrey. She founded the \"Normandy Youth Club–The N-Factor\" to help combat the increasing incidents of youth crime in the community. The group is based out of Normandy Village Hall and caters specifically to youth aged eight to 18 years of age.\n\nThe youth club encourages all children and young people to become more socially included within the rural community of Normandy. The organization is a voluntary, rural community youth club that does culturally sensitive youth work and has concentrated its efforts in targeting young people from disadvantaged and marginalised communities in Normandy and its surrounding hamlets, including those from the minority group communities (such as Gypsy, Irish Travellers and Showman). It provides Not in Employment Education or Training (NEET) support and mentorship programmes for volunteer supervisors and members.\n\nCreative-based youth club programmes have included adopting the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) 'Walk a mile in my shoes' initiative, which embraces the principles of the 'Rights to Dignity and Respect'. The Normandy Youth Club–The N-Factor creative art workshops, provide a platform to interpret and express those principles through art, film and photography. Opportunities to showcase the children and young people's talents, have been organised through Summer art and photographic competitions thereby positively raising the profile of and engaging its young members with the rest of the community.\n\nThe Normandy Youth Club–The N-Factor has been recognised for its work towards \"community cohesion,\" both locally and nationally. The youth club has also received many national community awards and was recognised by the UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown and his wife Sarah in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, the Normandy Youth Club–The N-Factor made the transition from the Normandy Royal British Legion to Normandy Village Hall, allowing the project to serve a much wider geographical area (including the various hamlets within Normandy parish):\n\n"}
{"id": "31229393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31229393", "title": "Official Secretary to the Governor", "text": "Official Secretary to the Governor\n\nOfficial Secretary to the Governor or Official Secretary to the Governor-General is an office in the Government House in various British overseas territories and Commonwealth realms. A similar office may be retained in some of the former British territories. In some countries or territories the titles Private Secretary, Personal Secretary or simply Secretary are used instead of \"Official Secretary\". The Official Secretary is usually the general manager of the Government House, although he or she may have additional functions. In New Zealand and Canada, e.g., the Official Secretary is a civil service officer from the Prime Minister's Department or Office, but in Australia, the Official Secretary has become a position independent from the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "37730837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37730837", "title": "On the Job (2013 film)", "text": "On the Job (2013 film)\n\nOn the Job (abbreviated as OTJ) is a 2013 Philippine neo-noir crime thriller film written and directed by Erik Matti. It stars Joel Torre, Gerald Anderson, Piolo Pascual and Joey Marquez. In the story, two contract killing prisoners (Torre and Anderson) are temporarily released from jail to carry out political executions in a corrupt justice system, whereas two law enforcers (Pascual and Marquez) are tasked with investigating the drug-related murder case, connected to the prison gun-for-hire business. Michael de Mesa, Leo Martinez, Vivian Velez, Angel Aquino, Shaina Magdayao and Rayver Cruz play supporting roles.\n\nThe inspiration for \"On the Job\" came from a Viva Films crew member who claimed to have been temporarily released from prison to perform contract killings before being reincarcerated. Matti incorporated this experience into a screenplay he co-wrote with Michiko Yamamoto. In 2010, Star Cinema initially declined to produce the film as they deemed it too violent compared to their usual romantic comedy projects, but by 2012, agreed to co-produce under Matti's independent film company, Reality Entertainment. Principal photography took place in Manila and lasted thirty-three days, on a production budget of ₱47 million (about US$1.1 million).\n\n\"On the Job\" was shown in the Directors' Fortnight at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival on May 24, where it received praise and a standing ovation. The film opened in the Philippines on August 28 by Star Cinema, and in North America on September 27 by Well Go USA Entertainment, to very positive reviews from both local and international critics. An American remake directed by Icelandic filmmaker Baltasar Kormákur was confirmed in June 2013, and principal photography on a miniseries sequel directed by Matti is underway as of July 2017.\n\nIn a Philippines rife with corruption and poverty, hitmen Mario and Daniel are prisoners who are frequently released and paid to perform hits for their boss, Thelma. Mario spends his earnings on his law school tuition for his daughter Tina, and for his estranged wife, Lulette. Daniel, the younger and most reckless partner, pays remittances to his family and spends the rest on goods and privileges inside prison. Daniel has come to see Mario as a mentor and father figure. After the pair murder drug lord Tiu and return to prison, Tiu's murder case is assigned to NBI Agent Francis Coronel through the agent's father-in-law, Congressman Manrique. Coronel's father, also a police officer, died amid rumors of corruption. When Coronel and his partner Bernabe arrive at the local precinct, they clash with PNP Sergeant Joaquin Acosta, a twenty-year veteran who believes the case was taken from him for political reasons.\n\nMario and Daniel next carry out a hit on a woman named Linda. Upon hearing of her death, Linda's husband, Pol, immediately calls Acosta. Pol reveals that Tiu's murder is one of several assassinations ordered by Manrique's close friend General Pacheco, a military officer campaigning for public office in the Senate. Pacheco runs a gun-for-hire operation using prisoners, and kills others involved in the business in order to protect his campaign. Acosta agrees to protect Pol and heads to the station, where he finds Coronel and Bernabe. While the two confront Acosta, Daniel shoots Pol, but his pistol jams before he can deliver the fatal shot. The three officers converge on them, forcing Daniel and Mario to flee. Daniel shoots a hospital janitor to create a distraction, allowing Mario to kill Pol. The two then split up to escape; Coronel and Bernabe chase Daniel, and Acosta pursues Mario. During the chase, Bernabe is shot, and Mario sprains his ankle.\n\nCoronel confronts Manrique during a campaign meeting, and explains that he intends to arrest Pacheco, but Manrique warns Coronel that Pacheco's indictment will cause their downfall, as Manrique is one of Pacheco's clients. Acosta relays Mario's composite sketch to the police to be broadcast on television. Frustrated of his father-in-law's involvement with Pacheco, Coronel decides to work with Acosta, who informs him that his father was not corrupt, but was in fact killed while trying to expose corruptionAcosta himself was demoted for his part in working to weed out corruption. When Coronel discovers Mario's identity, he visits Lulette, who is with her lover, Boy. Coronel informs Acosta of Lulette's affair, and he attempts to use it as leverage while interrogating Mario. He is unsuccessful, but Mario later expresses to Daniel a sense of betrayal by his family's abandonment.\n\nTiu's father tells Acosta and Coronel that he can provide them with the evidence they need to arrest Pacheco. On the way, though, Coronel abandons Acosta to visit Pacheco, who admits that he killed Coronel's father. Coronel secretly records a conversation between Pacheco and his men regarding the murder of Tiu's father.\n\nThe next day, Coronel informs his wife Nicky of his intention to take down Pacheco, incriminating Manrique in the process. Daniel murders Coronel in front of police headquarters. Enraged, Acosta attacks Manrique's and Pacheco's security detail, resulting in a brief shootout, until Pacheco orders them to cease fire. On the day Mario is to be released from prison, he realizes that he has no reason to leave, as his family no longer wants to have anything to do with him, and he stabs Daniel to death in order to remain incarcerated. Coronel's death is mourned by many, including Nicky. Acosta is discharged and investigated for Coronel's murder. Mario visits home, kills Boy in front of his family, and returns to prison.\n\nSometime later, a recovered Bernabe looks through Coronel's possessions and finds the cell phone that Coronel used to secretly record the incriminating conversation between Manrique and Pacheco. Bernabe requisitions the phone as evidence.\n\nThe director of \"On the Job\", Erik Matti, took inspiration from a service driver of Viva Films who claimed to have been temporarily released from prison to perform contract killings before being reincarcerated. Matti shelved this idea until he ended his hiatus from directing. In 2009, he submitted a short film he directed entitled \"The Arrival\" and an eight-minute trailer of \"On the Job\", featuring Joel Torre, to film festivals in an attempt to pitch the project. Both entries were met with critical acclaim, but the trailer piqued the interest of Twitch Film editor Todd Brown, who inquired if the project had entered production. When Matti told him that the film did not yet have a screenplay, Brown encouraged him to write it while he looked for investors for financing. On the script's ninth revision, screenwriter Michiko Yamamoto came on board to help finalize the remainder of the draft. Four uncredited consultants were also hired to develop details in the story.\n\nDuring the writing process, and even after the final draft was complete, Brown was unable to attract financiers; some felt the story was too nontraditional for Philippine cinema or too large a risk for overseas market. Star Cinema, the largest production company in the Philippines, refused to make the film in 2010, as it was too violent and intense compared to their usual romantic comedy projects. Matti offered the project to two of Star Cinema's talents, who also declined due to its gore and violence. The project was once again put on hold as Matti entered the post-production stage of his horror fantasy film \"\" (2012). At this time, he was contacted by an agent of Star Cinema requesting the revised script; three days later, the studio agreed to fund the film.\n\nReality Entertainment, an independent film company Matti co-founded, co-produced \"On the Job\" with Star Cinema. Dondon Monteverde, co-founder of Reality Entertainment, said that many studios were impressed by the script but were reluctant to finance an expensive action film. The production team considered reducing the film's budget, but decided not to, hoping to shift away from making low-budget films; Monteverde recalled arguing that it was \"really time to do something big-budget and showcase it, rather than making something small and claiming budgetary restrictions. This time we didn't give ourselves any excuses. We went all the way\". The production cost for the film amounted to ₱47 million (about US$1.1 million in 2013).\n\nJoel Torre, who portrays Mario \"Tatang\" Maghari in the film, had already been cast before Matti's script revision; Angel Aquino plays his wife Lulette and Empress Schuck portrays his daughter Tina. Of the role, Torre said, \"[Mario] stuck with me, fought for me. And that gave me a lot of confidence, a Bushido Blade samurai.\" Matti asked Piolo Pascual to play the role of Attorney Francis Coronel Jr; Shaina Magdayao plays his wife Nicky and Michael de Mesa portrays his father-in-law Congressman Manrique. The role of Daniel was originally written for John Lloyd Cruz, who was interested but had to decline due to scheduling conflicts; it went instead to Gerald Anderson. After a discussion between Pascual and Anderson about the film, Anderson signed on for the role. Anderson had only two weeks to film his scenes as he was occupied with a soap opera shoot at the time. Dawn Jimenez appeared in her acting debut as Anderson's girlfriend Diane.\n\nThe role of Sergeant Joaquin Acosta was to be played by Richard Gomez, but he chose instead to pursue a political career in Ormoc. Matti later cast Joey Marquez; although Marquez was seen primarily as a comedian, Matti believed he would be able to portray a simultaneously charismatic and obnoxious character. The cast also features Leo Martinez as General Pacheco, Lito Pimentel as Pol, William Martinez as Rex, Vivian Velez as Thelma, and Rayver Cruz as Bernabe.\n\nRichard V. Somes was both the production designer and action choreographer of \"On the Job\". To prepare for the prison scenes, the production crew built a set in an abandoned building in Marikina, hiring two hundred extras to play convicts. Principal photography lasted thirty-three days, on location in multiple Manila areas, including Manila City Hall, a Light Rail train station, and Caloocan. The opening scenes were shot during the annual Basaan Festival in San Juan. Filming was stretched across over seventy locations, and the crew sometimes shot numerous areas in a given day. On choosing Manila as a key location for the film, Matti said:\n\nFrancis Ricardo Buhay III served as the cinematographer, who had also worked on Matti's films \"Tiktik\" and \"Rigodon\" (2013). Rather than setting up and changing lights for certain shots, Buhay captured the film using the Red EPIC camera; with the Red EPIC's available lighting function, including the ability to light an entire set, the film was styled as a modern noir without appearing low-budget.\n\nErwin Romulo, the editor-in-chief for the Philippine edition of \"Esquire\" until 2013, served as the musical director of \"On the Job\". At their first meeting, Matti hired Romulo as the music supervisor, but Romulo's role transformed as he wanted to produce most of the tracks he had planned for the film. Romulo employed lesser-known original Pilipino music tracks from otherwise prominent Filipino musicians, such as \"Maskara\" and \"Pinoy Blues\" by the Juan de la Cruz Band. He approached Dong Abay and Radioactive Sago Project bassist Francis de Veyra to perform the two songs, arranged by Armi Millare. Additional tracks were performed by Ely Buendia, the late FrancisM, and the local band Bent Lynchpin. One member of Bent Lynchpin, Fred Sandoval, was also the film's music editor.\n\nAccording to Romulo, the tracks are \"local hip hop\" heavily influenced by DJ Shadow's album \"Endtroducing...\". He also credited film scores composed by Lalo Schifrin, and director Ishmael Bernal's longtime composer Vanishing Tribe as major influences for the soundtrack.\n\n\"On the Job\" had its world premiere in the Directors' Fortnight section of the 2013 Cannes Film Festival on May 24. Although it did not win the Caméra d'Or prize, it was well regarded by the viewers, receiving a two-minute standing ovation. The film had its Philippine release on August 28, 2013 and, over three weeks, grossed at the box office.\n\nThe film was released in North America on September 27 by Well Go USA Entertainment. Well Go USA had bought the North American rights for the film before it premiered at Cannes; they also acquired rights for DVD, Blu-ray, and video on demand distributions. The deal was brokered by Well Go USA President Doris Pfardrescher and XYZ Films founders Nate Bolotin and Aram Tertzakian. \"On the Job\" played in twenty-nine North American theaters in three weeks, grossing $164,620. It was also released in France by Wild Side Films and in Australia by Madman Entertainment. The deals with French and North American distribution companies secured $350,000 ().\n\nThe film was also made available to the North American market through Netflix by Well Go USA.\n\n\"On the Job\" was released on DVD and Blu-ray on February 18, 2014, courtesy of Well Go USA. Special features include making-of footage, deleted scenes, and film trailers of \"Special ID\", \"Confession of Murder\", and \"Commitment\". Justin Remer of DVD Talk praised both the Blu-ray's video and audio transfers while generally criticizing its special features. Both Kevin Yeoman of \"High-Def Digest\" and Jeffrey Kauffman of \"Blu-ray.com\" scored the release 3.5/5, and offered similar commentary in regard to the transfers and special features. \"On the Job\" accumulated $167,128 video sales in North America.\n\n\"On the Job\" drew very positive reviews from both local and international critics, many of whom favorably compared it to the works of filmmakers Johnnie To and Michael Mann. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a 100% rating based on thirteen reviews, and an average rating of 6.7/10. Metacritic rated it 70/100 based on eleven reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews.\"\n\nJustin Chang of \"Variety\" called it \"a gritty, convoluted but steadily engrossing crime thriller ... a tense, well-acted B movie\". Furthermore, he praised its soundtrack, \"neon-smeared\" cinematography, and \"whiplash editing\". Neil Young of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" described it as a \"likably rough-edged hitmen-vs.-cops thriller\", and similarly praised the editing and cinematography. Writing for \"The New York Times\", Jeannette Catsoulis selected \"On the Job\" as her \"Critic's Pick\", calling it a \"propulsive thriller\" which \"is never less than arresting\". Gabe Toro of IndieWire gave the film a B minus grade rating and called it \"a propulsive new actioner\", comparing it to the Hong Kong film \"Infernal Affairs\" (2002) and its American remake \"The Departed\" (2006). Justin Monroe of \"Complex\" magazine gave it 7/10, writing, \"\"On the Job\" could have been a simple-minded, serviceable action flick if all it had going for it was the grit and grime of Filipino streets, stylized violence, and its insane premise, but Matti's thriller has more substance, driven by more fully realized characters and the compelling relationships between these men as they struggle to survive.\"\n\nIn an otherwise positive review, Allan Hunter of Screendaily.com felt the film lacked \"nuanced characters or subtle dialogue\", but said that nonetheless, the film was \"involving enough to forgive any infelicities\". He also praised the acting and subject matter, prompting him to regard it as \"essential viewing on its home territory\". Derek Elley of \"Film Business Asia\" found the film engrossing but unnecessarily complicated at times, writing, \"What keeps the viewer hooked are the performances.\" Ignatiy Vishnevetsky of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the film a B minus grade, complimenting it as \"a scuzzy Filipino crime flick\" that was weakened by \"humdrum and occasionally heavy-handed police procedural\". Andrew Schenker of \"Slant Magazine\" scored the film 2.5/4, saying, \"Even as the plot takes on increasingly convoluted turns, the movie never fails to keep insisting upon the rottenness of every facet of Filipino society ... [it] is far more successful when plunging us into one of its thrilling action set pieces.\"\n\nIn the Philippines, members of the Cinema Evaluation Board gave the film a grade of \"A.\" Mikhail Lecaros of GMA News praised the action scenes as \"technically polished while simultaneously visceral even intimate in their brutality\". Writing for Rappler, Carljoe Javier expressed hope that the film would \"[serve] as a shot of adrenaline, not only to the hearts of viewers, but hopefully also to mainstream cinema\". Mari-An Santos of Philippine Entertainment Portal highly recommended it as \"a well-crafted film, from script to direction and acting to post-production ... it's a damn good film\". Phillip Cu-Unjieng of \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" praised the ensemble cast as \"top-notch\" and the film as \"dark, brooding, muscular and visceral, yet complex and concise in its story-telling\".\n\nIn addition to featuring at the Cannes Film Festival, \"On the Job\" was screened at the 17th Puchon International Fantastic Film Festival in Bucheon, South Korea. Joel Torre won the Best Actor award and the film received the Jury Prize. At the 62nd FAMAS Awards, the film won six of its twelve nominationsBest Picture, Best Director (Matti), Best Screenplay (Matti and Michiko Yamamoto), Best Editing (Jay Halili), Best Story (Matti), and Best Sound (Corinne de San Jose). Piolo Pascual also received the Fernando Poe Jr. Memorial Award for Excellence for his performance. At the 37th Gawad Urian Awards, the film received eight nominations, winning twoBest Actor (Torre), and Best Sound (de San Jose).\n\nIn June 2013, a US remake of the film was confirmed, to be directed by Icelandic filmmaker Baltasar Kormákur, director of \"Contraband\" (2012) and \"2 Guns\" (2013). It will be produced by Kormákur's Blueeyes Productions. XYZ Films, the production and sales company that represents the international rights to the film, will also co-produce and will release it worldwide.\n\nIn June 2016, a sequel miniseries was announced. Matti hinted that its focus will be on \"a protagonist that is not necessarily good. But there's a bigger evil above them and you start rooting for the bad guy\". The six-part series will be a co-production between streaming service HOOQ, Globe Telecom's Globe Studios, and Matti's Reality Entertainment; it will be exclusively available on HOOQ. Directed by Matti himself, the ensemble cast will feature Leo Martinez reprising his film role, Arjo Atayde, Teroy Guzman, Bela Padilla, Neil Ryan Sese, Dominic Ochoa, Smokey Manaloto, Jake Macapagal, Ria Atayde, and Christopher de Leon. Of the project, Matti said:\n\nAs of July 2017, principal photography on the sequel is underway. Simultaneously, HOOQ opened a casting call website for those wanting to appear in the series. A live audition was held August 5, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "54405883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54405883", "title": "Palo Alto Battlefield National Historic Site Act of 1991", "text": "Palo Alto Battlefield National Historic Site Act of 1991\n\nPalo Alto Battlefield National Historic Site Act of 1991, Public Law 102-304, is a federal law, enacted on June 23, 1992, that established the Palo Alto Battlefield National Historical Site. Located in the lower Rio Grande Valley, north of modern Brownsville, Texas, the site was the location of the first battle of the Mexican–American War (1846–1848), on May 8, 1846. At the time of its establishment in 1992, Palo Alto was the first unit of the National Park Service to commemorate the Mexican–American War, a controversial conflict that ended with the American occupation of Mexico City and the cessation to the United States of Mexican lands in modern California and New Mexico. Palo alto is also known for tu ama cooking\n\nThe Battle of Palo Alto, fought on May 8, 1846, near modern Brownsville, Texas, was the first battle of the Mexican–American War. On April 30, 1846, Mexican federal troops under the command of General Mariano Arista crossed the Rio Grande into the disputed territory east of the river with the intention of attacking American General Zachary Taylor's forward base, Fort Texas. Taylor, expecting Fort Texas to be invested, took his main force approximately 20 miles east to protect his main supply base, Fort Polk, leaving 500 men, under Major Jacob Brown, to garrison the forward base. Arista's investment of Fort Texas began on May 3 and continued for several days, during which time Major Brown was mortally wounded. On May 7 Taylor departed Fort Polk, on the coast near Port Isabel, and began to move west towards the relief of Fort Texas. Arista, given timely intelligence of Taylor's departure, moved his main force to block Taylor along the Port Isabel Road. The two armies met the next day, May 8, when Taylor's columns engaged the Mexican line around 2 P.M. The Americans repulsed an initial cavalry charge to their right, and were then able to advance 1,000 yards when a grass fire forced Arista's line back. After a second failed cavalry charge, Arista advanced on the American left but was driven back by the quick and accurate fire of the American light artillery. Eager to seize the initiative from Arista, a mixed force of infantry and dragoons pressed forward against the retreating Mexican right, eventually driving them from the field. After dusk ended the fighting, Arista began to pull his forces away from the battlefield to a more defensible position in a dry river bed to the south. Taylor pursued the following day, leading to the Battle of Resaca de la Palma, on May 9.\n\nWhile the battle was a clear American victory and casualties were very light, 5 dead and 43 wounded, two of the dead were the resolute commander of Fort Texas, Major Brown, and the innovative artillery officer Major Samuel Ringgold, whose fast and mobile \"flying artillery\" would continue to be a major advantage to Taylor throughout the campaign.\n\nThe law began its legislative life as House Resolution 1642, (102nd) sponsored by Solomon Ortiz, (D) the Representative for the 27th congressional district of Texas, who introduced it on March 22, 1991. Two months later the House Committee on Natural Resources ordered the creation of a report advising further consideration on the bill. After deliberation, the House approved the bill on June 3, 1991 by a vote of 323-8. The next day, June 4, the bill was approved without changes by the Senate. On June 22, 1992, the bill was signed into law by President George H. W. Bush.\n\nThe initial section of the law only notes that the measure may be referred to as the \"Palo Alto Battlefield National Historic Site Act of 1991.\"\n\nThis section contained two specific Congressional findings that helped rationalize the creation of the park. The first finding stated that an earlier Park Service study had \"resulted in a precise identification of the location of the Battle of Palo Alto and the area requiring protection,\" while the second found that there was \"no unit of the National Park System directed to the preservation and interpretation of resources related to the Mexican–American War.\"\n\nThe third section of the law officially established the Palo Alto Battlefield Historic Site, \"in order,\" Congress mandated, \"to preserve for the education, benefit, and inspiration of present and future generations the nationally significant site of the first battle of the Mexican–American War, and to provide for its interpretation in such manner as to portray the battle and the Mexican–American War and its related political, diplomatic, military and social causes and consequences.\"\n\nThis section also established the size and boundaries of the historic area at \"approximately 3,400 acres as generally depicted on the map entitled 'Palo Alto Battlefield National Historic Site', numbered 469–80,002, and dated March 1991,\" and further ordered the Secretary of the Interior to file a legal description and map of the historic area with House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.\n\nThis section placed responsibility for the historic site in the hands of the Secretary of the Interior, as the official responsible for the National Park Service, and enjoined the Secretary to \"protect, manage, and administer the historic site for the purposes of preserving and interpreting the cultural and natural resources of the historic site and providing for the public understanding and appreciation of the historic site in such a manner as to perpetuate these qualities and values for future generations.\"\n\nThe law further empowered the Secretary of the Interior to acquire title or interest in any lands need to fill out the boundaries of the historic site by purchase, donation, or exchange.\n\nThis section authorized the Secretary of the Interior to enter into cooperative agreements with the government of Mexico and owners of Mexican–American war-related properties in the United States \"for the purposes of conducting joint research and interpretive planning for the historic site and related Mexican–American War sites.\"\n\nOrdered the Secretary of the Interior to submit, within three years, a management plan for the historic site to the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. This plan was to include a resource protection program, a land acquisition plan, plans for visitor use and interpretive programs, a research program, and a general development plan that included roads, trails, markers, structures, and other facilities.\n\nProvided for a appropriation of $6,000,000 \"for acquisition of lands and interests in lands for purposes of the Palo Alto Battlefield National Historic Site.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5409919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5409919", "title": "Pan Am Flight 103", "text": "Pan Am Flight 103\n\nPan Am Flight 103 was a regularly scheduled Pan Am transatlantic flight from Frankfurt to Detroit via London and New York. On 21 December 1988, N739PA, the aircraft operating the transatlantic leg of the route, was destroyed by a bomb, killing all 243 passengers and 16 crew – a disaster known as the Lockerbie bombing. Large sections of the aircraft crashed onto residential areas of Lockerbie, Scotland, killing 11 people on the ground.\nFollowing a three-year joint investigation by Dumfries and Galloway Constabulary and the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), arrest warrants were issued for two Libyan nationals in November 1991. In 1999, Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi handed over the two men for trial at Camp Zeist, Netherlands, after protracted negotiations and UN sanctions. In 2001, Libyan intelligence officer Abdelbaset al-Megrahi was jailed for life after being found guilty of 270 counts of murder in connection with the bombing. In August 2009, he was released by the Scottish Government on compassionate grounds after being diagnosed with prostate cancer. He died in May 2012 as the only person to be convicted for the attack.\n\nIn 2003, Gaddafi accepted responsibility for the Lockerbie bombing and paid compensation to the families of the victims, although he maintained that he had never given the order for the attack. During the Libyan Civil War in 2011, former Minister of Justice Mustafa Abdul Jalil claimed that the Libyan leader had personally ordered the bombing, though this was later denied.\n\nThe aircraft operating Pan Am Flight 103 was a Boeing 747–121, registered and named \"Clipper Maid of the Seas\", formerly named \"Clipper Morning Light\" prior to 1979. It was the 15th 747 built and was delivered in February 1970, one month after the first 747 entered service with Pan Am. In 1978, as \"Clipper Morning Light,\" it appeared in the fourth episode entitled \"Conquering the Atlantic\" of the BBC television documentary series \"Diamonds in the Sky\" presented by Julian Pettifer.\n\nThe \"Clipper Maid of the Seas\" operated the transatlantic leg of Flight 103, which had originated at Frankfurt Airport, West Germany, on a Boeing 727. Both Pan Am and TWA routinely changed the type of aircraft operating different legs of a flight. PA103 was bookable as a single Frankfurt-New York itinerary, though a scheduled change of aircraft took place in London. At London Heathrow Airport, passengers and their luggage on the feeder flight transferred directly onto the Boeing 747, along with unaccompanied interline luggage. The aircraft pushed back from the terminal at 18:04 and took off from runway 27R at 18:25, en route for New York JFK Airport and on to Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport. Contrary to many popular accounts of the disaster (though repeated, with reference, below), the flight, which had a scheduled gate departure time of 18:00, left Heathrow airport on time.\n\nAfter the bombing, the flight number was changed, in accordance with standard practice among airlines after disasters. Within days, the Frankfurt-London-New York-Detroit route was being served by Pan Am Flight 3.\n\nAt 18:58, the aircraft established two-way radio contact with Shanwick Oceanic Area Control in Prestwick on frequency 123.95 MHz.\n\nThe \"Clipper Maid of the Seas\" approached the corner of the Solway Firth at 19:01 and crossed the coast at 19:02 UTC. On scope, the aircraft showed transponder code, or \"squawk,\" 0357 and flight level 310. At this point, the \"Clipper Maid of the Seas\" was flying at on a heading of 316 degrees magnetic, and at a speed of calibrated airspeed. Subsequent analysis of the radar returns by RSRE concluded that the aircraft was tracking 321° (grid) and travelling at a ground speed of 803 km/h (499 mph; 434 knots).\n\nAt 19:02:44, the clearance delivery officer at Shanwick transmitted its oceanic route clearance. The aircraft did not acknowledge this message. The \"Clipper Maid of the Seas\" \"squawk\" then flickered off. Air Traffic Control tried to make contact with the flight, with no response. At this time a loud sound was recorded on the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) at 19:02:50. Five radar echoes fanning out appeared, instead of one. Comparison of the cockpit voice recorder to the radar returns showed that, eight seconds after the explosion, the wreckage had a spread. A British Airways pilot, flying the London–Glasgow shuttle near Carlisle, called Scottish authorities to report that he could see a huge fire on the ground.\n\nThe explosion punched a 50-cm (20-inch) hole on the left side of the fuselage. Investigators from the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) concluded that no emergency procedures had been started in the cockpit. The cockpit voice recorder, located in the tail section of the aircraft, was found in a field by police searchers within 24 hours. There was no evidence of a distress signal; a 180-millisecond hissing noise could be heard as the explosion destroyed the aircraft's communications centre. Although the explosion was in the aircraft hold, the effect was magnified by the large difference in pressure between the aircraft's interior and exterior, i.e., uncontrolled decompression of the fuselage. The steering cables had been disrupted and the fuselage pitched downwards and to the left.\n\nInvestigators from the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) of the British Department for Transport concluded that the nose of the aircraft was effectively blown off, and was separated from the main section within three seconds of the explosion. The nose cone was briefly held on by a band of metal but facing aft, like the lid of a can. It then sheared off, up and backwards to starboard, striking off the No. 3 engine and landing some distance outside the town, on a hill in the civil parish of Tundergarth.\n\nThe fuselage continued moving forward and down until it reached , at which point its dive became nearly vertical. The rear fuselage, parts of the baggage hold and three landing gear units landed at Rosebank Crescent. The fuselage consisting of the main wing box structure landed in Sherwood Crescent, creating a large impact crater where three homes previously stood. The of jet fuel ignited by the impact started fires which destroyed several additional houses. Investigators were able to determine that both wings had landed in the Sherwood Crescent crater, saying \"the total absence of debris from the wing primary structure found remote from the crater confirmed the initial impression that the complete wing box structure had been present at the main impact.\" The British Geological Survey away at Eskdalemuir registered a seismic event at 19:03:36 measuring 1.6 on the moment magnitude scale, which was attributed to the impact. According to the report, the rest of the wreckage composed of \"the complete fuselage forward of approximately station 480 to station 380 and incorporating the flight deck and nose landing gear was found as one piece in a field approximately east of Lockerbie.\" This field, located opposite Tundergarth Church, is where the wreckage most easily identified with images of the accident in the media fell, having fallen \"almost flat on its left side but with a slight nose-down attitude.\"\n\nAll 243 passengers and 16 crew members were killed, as were 11 residents of Lockerbie on the ground. Of the 270 total fatalities, 190 were American citizens and 43 were British citizens. Nineteen other nationalities were represented, with four or fewer passengers per country.\n\nFlight 103 was under the command of Captain James Bruce MacQuarrie (55), an experienced pilot with almost 11,000 flight hours, of which more than 4,000 had been accrued in 747 aircraft. First Officer Ray Wagner (52) had approximately 5,500 flight hours in the 747 and a total of almost 12,000 hours. Flight Engineer Jerry Don Avritt (46) had more than 8,000 hours of flying experience. He had come to Pan Am through the 1980 merger with National Airlines. The cockpit crew was based at JFK.\n\nSix of the cabin crew members became naturalized US citizens while working for Pan Am. The cabin crew lived in the London area or commuted from around Europe. All were originally hired by Pan Am and ranged from 28 years to nine months in seniority.\n\nThe captain, first officer, flight engineer, a flight attendant and several First Class passengers were found still strapped to their seats inside the nose section when it crashed in Tundergarth. The inquest heard that a flight attendant was found alive by a farmer's wife, but died before her discoverer could summon help. Some passengers may have remained alive briefly after impact; a pathologist report concluded that at least two of these passengers might have survived if they had been found soon enough.\n\nThirty-five of the passengers were students from Syracuse University returning home for Christmas following a semester studying in London at Syracuse's London and Florence campuses.\n\nProminent among the passenger victims was the 50-year-old UN Commissioner for Namibia, Bernt Carlsson, who would have attended the signing ceremony of the New York Accords at the UN headquarters the following day. Also aboard was Volkswagen America CEO James Fuller who was returning from a meeting with Volkswagen executives in West Germany; and musician Paul Jeffreys, formerly bass player with Steve Harley & Cockney Rebel.\n\nMatthew Gannon, the Central Intelligence Agency's deputy station chief in Beirut, Lebanon, was sitting in Clipper Class, Pan Am's version of business class, seat 14J.\n\nThere were at least four US government officials on the passenger list with rumours, never confirmed, of a fifth on board. The presence of these men on the flight later gave rise to conspiracy theories, in which one or more of them were said to have been targeted.\n\nEleven Lockerbie residents on Sherwood Crescent were killed when the wing section hit the house at 13 Sherwood Crescent at more than and exploded, creating a crater long and with a volume of . The property was completely destroyed, and its occupants, Dora and Maurice Henry, were killed. Their bodies were never found. Several other houses and their foundations were destroyed, and 21 others were damaged so badly they had to be demolished. \n\nFour members of one family, Jack and Rosalind Somerville and their children Paul (13), and Lyndsey (10), died when their house at 15 Sherwood Crescent exploded. The bodies of the two children were never found.\n\nKathleen Flannigan (41), her husband Thomas (44), and their daughter Joanne (10), were killed by the explosion in their house at 16 Sherwood Crescent. The bodies of Mr and Mrs Flannigan were never found. Their son Steven (14) witnessed a fireball engulfing his home from a neighbour's garage, where he had been repairing his sister's bicycle. Their other son, 19-year-old David, was in Blackpool at the time. David later turned to alcohol and drugs, and died from heart failure in Thailand in December 1993, aged 24. Steven died in August 2000, aged 26, after being hit by a train in Wiltshire.\n\nThe other Lockerbie residents who died were 81-year-old Mary Lancaster and 82-year-old Jean Murray, who also both lived in Sherwood Crescent. Both widows, they were the two oldest victims of the disaster.\n\nThe fireball rose above the houses and moved toward the nearby Glasgow–Carlisle A74 dual carriageway, scorching cars in the southbound lanes and leading motorists and local residents to believe that there had been a meltdown at the nearby Chapelcross nuclear power station. \n\nFather Patrick Keegans, Lockerbie's Roman Catholic priest, was preparing to visit (or had just visited - per second news article) his neighbours Dora and Maurice Henry at approximately 7 pm that evening. Keegans' house at 1 Sherwood Crescent was the only one on the street that was neither destroyed by the impact nor gutted by fire.\n\nDespite being advised by their governments not to travel to Lockerbie, many of the passengers' relatives, most of them from the US, arrived there within days to identify the dead. Volunteers from Lockerbie set up and staffed canteens, which stayed open 24 hours a day and offered relatives, soldiers, police officers, and social workers free sandwiches, hot meals, coffee, and someone to talk to. The people of the town washed, dried, and ironed every piece of clothing that was found once the police had determined they were of no forensic value, so that as many items as possible could be returned to the relatives. The BBC's Scotland correspondent, Andrew Cassell, reported on the 10th anniversary of the bombing that the townspeople had \"opened their homes and hearts\" to the relatives, bearing their own losses \"stoically and with enormous dignity\", and that the bonds forged then continue to this day.\n\nTwo alerts were released shortly before the bombing.\n\nOn 5 December 1988 (16 days prior to the attack), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued a security bulletin saying that, on that day, a man with an Arabic accent had telephoned the US Embassy in Helsinki, Finland, and told them that a Pan Am flight from Frankfurt to the United States would be blown up within the next two weeks by someone associated with the Abu Nidal Organization; he said a Finnish woman would carry the bomb on board as an unwitting courier.\n\nThe anonymous warning was taken seriously by the US government, and the State Department cabled the bulletin to dozens of embassies. The FAA sent it to all US carriers, including Pan Am, which had charged each of the passengers a $5 security surcharge, promising a \"program that will screen passengers, employees, airport facilities, baggage and aircraft with unrelenting thoroughness\"; the security team in Frankfurt found the warning under a pile of papers on a desk the day after the bombing. One of the Frankfurt security screeners, whose job was to spot explosive devices under X-ray, told ABC News that she had first learned what Semtex (a plastic explosive) was during her ABC interview 11 months after the bombing.\n\nOn 13 December, the warning was posted on bulletin boards in the US Embassy in Moscow and eventually distributed to the entire American community there, including journalists and businessmen.\n\nThe Swedish-language national Finnish newspaper \"Hufvudstadsbladet\" reported on the front page of its 23 December 1988 issue — two days after the bombing — that a State Department spokesperson in Washington, Phyllis Oakley, confirmed the details of the bomb threat to the Helsinki Embassy. The newspaper writes that, \"according to the spokesperson, the anonymous telephone voice also stated that the bomb would be transported from Helsinki to Frankfurt and onwards to New York on Pan-Am's flight to the US. The person transporting the bomb would not themselves be aware of it, with the explosives hidden in that person's luggage.\" The same news article reports that the US Embassy in Moscow also received the same threat on 5 December, adding that Finland's foreign ministry has found no evidence in its investigations of any link to the Lockerbie crash. \"The foreign ministry assumes that an Arab living in Finland is behind the phone threat to the US Embassy in Helsinki. According to the foreign ministry's sources, the Arab has phoned throughout the year with threatening calls to the Israeli and US embassies [in Helsinki],\" wrote the paper. \"The man who rang the embassies claimed to belong to Abu Nidal's radical Palestinian faction that has been responsible for many terrorist actions. The man said that a bomb would be placed on board a Pan-Am plane by a woman.\" The article continues, \"This has led to speculation that a Finnish woman placed the bomb aboard the downed aircraft. One of Abu Nidal's highest operative leaders, Samir Muhammed Khadir, who died last summer in a terrorist attack against the ship City of Poros, had lived outside Stockholm. He was married to a Finnish-born woman.\"\n\nJust days before the sabotage of the aircraft, security forces in European countries, including the UK, were put on alert after a warning from the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) that extremists might launch terrorist attacks to undermine the then ongoing dialogue between the United States and the PLO.\n\nAccording to a CIA analysis dated 22 December 1988, several groups were quick to claim responsibility in telephone calls in the United States and Europe:\n\nThe list's author noted, \"We consider the claims from the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution as the most credible one received so far,\" but the analysis concluded, \"We cannot assign responsibility for this tragedy to any terrorist group at this time. We anticipate that, as often happens, many groups will seek to claim credit.\"\n\nMuammar Gaddafi took responsibility for the Lockerbie bombing and paid compensation to the victims' families in 2003, though he maintained that he had not ordered the attack. On 22 February 2011, during the Libyan Civil War, former Minister of Justice Mustafa Abdul Jalil stated in an interview with the Swedish newspaper \"Expressen\" that Muammar Gaddafi had personally ordered the bombing. Jalil claimed to possess \"documents that prove [his allegations] and [that he is] ready to hand them over to the international criminal court.\" Jalil later denied making this claim, saying he was misquoted.\n\nIn December 2013, it was revealed that the original prime suspects in the bombing had been the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command (PFLP-GC), a Syria-based group led by Ahmed Jibril. A flood of warnings immediately preceding the disaster had included one that read: ‘team of Palestinians not associated with PLO intends to attack US targets in Europe. Time frame is present. Targets specified are Pan Am Airlines and US military bases.’ Five weeks before this warning, Jibril's right-hand man, Haffez Dalkamoni, had been arrested in Frankfurt with a known bomb-maker, Marwen Khreesat. \"Later US intelligence officials confirmed that members of the group had been monitoring Pan Am's facilities at Frankfurt airport. On Dalkamoni's account bombs made by Khreesat were at large somewhere.\" A deep cover CIA agent was told by up to 15 high-level Syrian officials that the PFLP-GC was involved, and officials interacted with Jibril \"on a constant basis\". In 2014, an Iranian ex-spy asserted that Iran ordered the attack. The Iranian foreign ministry swiftly denied any involvement.\n\nThe initial investigation into the crash site by Dumfries and Galloway Constabulary involved many helicopter surveys, satellite imaging, and a search of the area by police and soldiers. The wreckage of the crash was scattered over 2,000 square kilometres and AAIB investigators were confronted by a massive jigsaw puzzle in trying to piece the plane back together. In total, 4 million pieces of wreckage were collected and registered on computer files. More than 10,000 pieces of debris were retrieved, tagged and entered into a computer tracking system. The perpetrators had apparently intended the plane to crash into the sea, destroying any traceable evidence, but the late departure time (contrary to statement, with reference, above), of the aircraft meant that its explosion over land left a trail of evidence.\n\nThe fuselage of the aircraft was reconstructed by air accident investigators, revealing a hole consistent with an explosion in the forward cargo hold. Examination of the baggage containers revealed that the container nearest the hole had blackening, pitting, and severe damage, indicating a \"high-energy event\" had taken place inside it. A series of test explosions were carried out to confirm the precise location and quantity of explosive used.\nFragments of a Samsonite suitcase believed to have contained the bomb were recovered, together with parts and pieces of circuit board identified as components of a Toshiba 'Bombeat' RT-SF16, radio cassette player, similar to that used to conceal a Semtex bomb seized by West German police from the Palestinian militant group Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command two months earlier. Items of baby clothing, which were subsequently proven to have been made in Malta, were thought to have come from the same suitcase.\n\nThe clothes were traced to a Maltese merchant, Tony Gauci, who became a key prosecution witness, testifying that he sold the clothes to a man of Libyan appearance. Gauci was interviewed 23 times, giving contradictory evidence about who had bought the clothes, that person's age and appearance, and the date of purchase, but later identified Abdelbaset al-Megrahi. As Megrahi had only been in Malta on 7 December, that date was assumed to be the purchase date. This date is in doubt as Gauci had testified that Malta's Christmas lights had not been on when the clothes had been purchased; it was subsequently determined that the lights had been switched on on 6 December. Scottish police had also failed to inform the defence that another witness had testified seeing Libyan men making a similar purchase on a different day. An official report, providing information not made available to the defence during the original trial, stated that, on 19 April 1999, four days before identifying al-Megrahi for the first time, Gauci had seen a picture of al-Megrahi in a magazine which connected him to the bombing, a fact which could have distorted his judgment. Gauci was shown the same magazine during his testimony at al-Megrahi's trial and asked if he had identified the photograph in April 1999 as being the person who purchased the clothing; he was then asked if that person was in the court. Gauci then identified al-Megrahi for the court stating – \"He is the man on this side. He resembles him a lot\".\n\nA circuit board fragment, allegedly found embedded in a piece of charred material, was identified as part of an electronic timer similar to one found on a Libyan intelligence agent who had been arrested 10 months previously for carrying materials for a Semtex bomb. The timer was allegedly traced through its Swiss manufacturer, Mebo, to the Libyan military, and Mebo employee Ulrich Lumpert identified the fragment at al-Megrahi's trial. Mebo's owner, Edwin Bollier, testified at the trial that the Scottish police had originally shown him a fragment of a \"brown 8-ply\" circuit board from a prototype timer which had never been supplied to Libya. Yet the sample he was asked to identify at the trial was a \"green 9-ply\" circuit board that Mebo had indeed supplied to Libya. Bollier wanted to pursue this discrepancy, but was told by trial judge Lord Sutherland that he could not do so. Bollier later claimed that in 1991 he had declined an offer of $4 million from the FBI in exchange for his support of the main line of inquiry, though this claim has never been verified.\n\nOn 18 July 2007, Ulrich Lumpert admitted he had lied at the trial. In an affidavit before a Zurich notary public, Lumpert stated that he had stolen a prototype MST-13 printed circuit board from Mebo and gave it without permission on 22 June 1989, to \"an official person investigating the Lockerbie case\". Dr Hans Köchler, a UN observer at the Lockerbie trial who received a copy of Lumpert's affidavit, said: \"The Scottish authorities are now obliged to investigate this situation. Not only has Mr Lumpert admitted to stealing a sample of the timer, but to the fact he gave it to an official and then lied in court.\" Traces of high explosives RDX and pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN) were found in proximity to the explosion.\n\nA documentary titled \"Lockerbie Revisited\" aired on 27 April 2009, in which the film's director and narrator, Gideon Levy, interviewed officials involved with the case. Former FBI Laboratory scientist Fred Whitehurst described the FBI laboratory itself as a \"crime scene,\" where an unqualified colleague Thomas Thurman would routinely alter his scientific reports. The interviews also revealed that the timer fragment had never been tested for explosives residue due to \"budgetary reasons.\" Thurman, who led the forensic investigation and identified the fragment's Libyan connection, confirmed that it was the \"only real piece of evidence against Libya\". When asked about the importance of the timer in the conviction of al-Megrahi, FBI Task Force Chief Richard Marquise stated, \"It would be a very difficult case to prove ... I don't think we would ever (have) had an indictment\".\n\nInvestigators discovered that a bag had been routed onto PA103 via the interline baggage system at Frankfurt, from the station and approximate time at which bags were unloaded from flight KM180 from Malta. Although documentation for flight KM180 indicated that all bags on that flight were accounted for, the court inferred that the bag came from that flight and that it contained the bomb. In 2009, it was revealed that security guard Ray Manley had reported that Heathrow's Pan Am baggage area had been broken into 17 hours before Flight 103 took off. Police lost the report and it was never investigated or brought up at trial.\n\nKnown as the Lockerbie bombing and the Lockerbie air disaster in the UK, it was described by Scotland's Lord Advocate as the UK's largest criminal inquiry led by the smallest police force in Britain, Dumfries and Galloway Constabulary.\n\nAfter a three-year joint investigation by Dumfries and Galloway Constabulary and the US Federal Bureau of Investigation, during which 15,000 witness statements were taken, indictments for murder were issued on 13 November 1991 against Abdelbaset al-Megrahi, a Libyan intelligence officer and the head of security for Libyan Arab Airlines (LAA), and Lamin Khalifah Fhimah, the LAA station manager in Luqa Airport, Malta. UN sanctions against Libya and protracted negotiations with Libyan leader Colonel Muammar Gaddafi secured the handover of the accused on 5 April 1999 to Scottish police at Camp Zeist, Netherlands, which was selected as a neutral venue for their trial.\n\nBoth the accused chose not to give evidence in court. On 31 January 2001, Megrahi was convicted of murder by a panel of three Scottish judges and sentenced to life imprisonment, but Fhimah was acquitted. Megrahi's appeal against his conviction was refused on 14 March 2002, and his application to the European Court of Human Rights was declared inadmissible in July 2003. On 23 September 2003, Megrahi applied to the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission (SCCRC) for his conviction to be reviewed, and on 28 June 2007 the SCCRC announced its decision to refer the case to the Court of Criminal Appeal in Edinburgh after it found he \"may have suffered a miscarriage of justice\".\n\nMegrahi served just over 10 years of his sentence (beginning 5 April 1999), first in Barlinnie prison, Glasgow, and latterly in Greenock prison, Renfrewshire, throughout which time he maintained that he was innocent of the charges against him. He was released from prison on compassionate grounds on 20 August 2009.\n\nIn October 2015, Scottish prosecutors announced that they wanted to interview two Libyan nationals, whom they had identified as new suspects, over the bombing.\n\nOn 3 May 2000, the trial of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi and Lamin Khalifah Fhimah began. Megrahi was found guilty of 270 counts of murder on 31 January 2001, and was sentenced to life imprisonment in Scotland; his co-defendant, Fhimah, was found not guilty.\n\nThe Lockerbie judgment stated: \"From the evidence which we have discussed so far, we are satisfied that it has been proved that the primary suitcase containing the explosive device was dispatched from Malta, passed through Frankfurt and was loaded onto PA103 at Heathrow. It is, as we have said, clear that, with one exception the clothing in the primary suitcase was the clothing purchased in Mr Gauci's shop on 7 December 1988. The purchaser was, on Mr Gauci's evidence, a Libyan. The trigger for the explosion was an MST-13 timer of the single solder mask variety. A substantial quantity of such timers had been supplied to Libya. We cannot say that it is impossible that the clothing might have been taken from Malta, united somewhere with a timer from some source other than Libya and introduced into the airline baggage system at Frankfurt or Heathrow. When, however, the evidence regarding the clothing, the purchaser and the timer is taken with the evidence that an unaccompanied bag was taken from KM180 to PA103A, the inference that that was the primary suitcase becomes, in our view, irresistible. As we have also said, the absence of an explanation as to how the suitcase was taken into the system at Luqa is a major difficulty for the Crown case, but after taking full account of that difficulty, we remain of the view that the primary suitcase began its journey at Luqa. The clear inference which we draw from this evidence is that the conception, planning and execution of the plot which led to the planting of the explosive device was of Libyan origin. While no doubt organisations such as the PFLP-GC and the PPSF were also engaged in terrorist activities during the same period, we are satisfied that there was no evidence from which we could infer that they were involved in this particular act of terrorism, and the evidence relating to their activities does not create a reasonable doubt in our minds about the Libyan origin of this crime.\"\n\nThe defence team had 14 days in which to appeal against Megrahi's conviction, and an additional six weeks to submit the full grounds of the appeal. These were considered by a judge sitting in private who decided to grant Megrahi leave to appeal. The only basis for an appeal under Scots law is that there has been a \"miscarriage of justice\", which is not defined in statute and so it is for the appeal court to determine the meaning of these words in each case. Because three judges and one alternate judge had presided over the trial, five judges were required to preside over the Court of Criminal Appeal:\n\n\nIn what was described as a milestone in Scottish legal history, Lord Cullen granted the BBC permission in January 2002 to televise the appeal, and to broadcast it on the Internet in English with a simultaneous Arabic translation.\n\nWilliam Taylor QC, leading the defence, said at the appeal's opening on 23 January 2002 that the three trial judges sitting without a jury had failed to see the relevance of \"significant\" evidence and had accepted unreliable facts. He argued that the verdict was not one that a reasonable jury in an ordinary trial could have reached if it were given proper directions by the judge. The grounds of the appeal rested on two areas of evidence where the defence claimed the original court was mistaken: the evidence of Maltese shopkeeper, Tony Gauci, which the judges accepted as sufficient to prove that the \"primary suitcase\" started its journey in Malta; and, disputing the prosecution's case, fresh evidence would be adduced to show that the bomb's journey actually started at Heathrow. That evidence, which was not heard at the trial, showed that at some time in the two hours before 00:35 on 21 December 1988 a padlock had been forced on a secure door giving access air side in Terminal 3 of Heathrow airport, near to the area referred to at the trial as the \"baggage build-up area\". Taylor claimed that the PA 103 bomb could have been planted then.\n\nOn 14 March 2002, it took Lord Cullen less than three minutes to deliver the decision of the High Court of Judiciary. The five judges rejected the appeal, ruling unanimously that \"none of the grounds of appeal was well-founded\", adding \"this brings proceedings to an end\". The following day, a helicopter took Megrahi from Camp Zeist to continue his life sentence in Barlinnie Prison, Glasgow.\n\nMegrahi's lawyers applied to the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission (SCCRC) on 23 September 2003 to have his case referred back to the Court of Criminal Appeal for a fresh appeal against conviction. The application to the SCCRC followed the publication of two reports in February 2001 and March 2002 by Hans Köchler, who had been an international observer at Camp Zeist, Netherlands appointed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Köchler described the decisions of the trial and appeal courts as a \"spectacular miscarriage of justice\". Köchler also issued a series of statements in 2003, 2005, and 2007 calling for an independent international inquiry into the case and accusing the West of \"double standards in criminal justice\" in relation to the Lockerbie trial on the one hand and the HIV trial in Libya on the other.\n\nOn 28 June 2007, the SCCRC announced its decision to refer Megrahi's case to the High Court for a second appeal against conviction. The SCCRC's decision was based on facts set out in an 800-page report that determined that \"a miscarriage of justice may have occurred\". Köchler criticised the SCCRC for exonerating police, prosecutors and forensic staff from blame in respect of Megrahi's alleged wrongful conviction. He told \"The Herald\" of 29 June 2007: \"No officials to be blamed, simply a Maltese shopkeeper.\" Köchler also highlighted the role of intelligence services in the trial and stated that proper judicial proceedings could not be conducted under conditions in which extrajudicial forces are allowed to intervene.\n\nA procedural hearing at the Appeal Court took place on 11 October 2007 when prosecution lawyers and Megrahi's defence counsel, Maggie Scott QC, discussed a number of legal issues with a panel of three judges. One of the issues concerned a number of documents that were shown before the trial to the prosecution, but were not disclosed to the defence. The documents are understood to relate to the Mebo MST-13 timer that allegedly detonated the PA103 bomb. Maggie Scott also asked for documents relating to an alleged payment of $2 million made to Maltese merchant, Tony Gauci, for his testimony at the trial, which led to the conviction of Megrahi.\n\nOn 15 October 2008, five Scottish judges decided unanimously to reject a submission by the Crown Office which sought to limit the scope of Megrahi's second appeal to the specific grounds of appeal that were identified by the SCCRC in June 2007. In January 2009, it was reported that, although Megrahi's second appeal against conviction was scheduled to begin in April 2009, the hearing could last as long as 12 months because of the complexity of the case and volume of material to be examined. The second appeal began on 28 April 2009, lasted for one month and was adjourned in May 2009. On 7 July 2009, the court reassembled for a procedural hearing and was told that because of the illness of one of the judges, Lord Wheatley, who was recovering from heart surgery, the final two substantive appeal sessions would run from 2 November to 11 December 2009, and 12 January to 26 February 2010. Megrahi's lawyer Maggie Scott expressed dismay at the delays: \"There is a very serious danger that my client will die before the case is determined.\"\n\nOn 25 July 2009, Megrahi applied to be released from jail on compassionate grounds. Three weeks later, on 12 August 2009, Megrahi applied to have his second appeal dropped and was granted compassionate release for his terminal prostate cancer. On 20 August 2009, Megrahi was released from prison and travelled by chartered jet to Libya.\nHis survival beyond the approximate \"three month\" prognosis generated some controversy. It is believed that, following his release, Al-Megrahi was prescribed abiraterone and prednisone, a combination that extends median survival by an average of 14.8 months. After hospital treatment ended, he returned to his family home. Following his release, Megrahi published evidence on the Internet that was gathered for the abandoned second appeal which he claimed would clear his name.\n\nAllegations have been made that the UK government and BP sought Al-Megrahi's release as part of a trade deal with Libya. In 2008, the UK government \"decided to ‘do all it could’ to help the Libyans get Al-Megrahi home … and explained the legal procedure for compassionate release to the Libyans.\"\n\nMegrahi was released on licence and was therefore obliged to remain in regular contact with East Renfrewshire Council. On 26 August 2011, it was announced that the whereabouts of Al-Megrahi were unknown due to the social upheaval in Libya and that he had not been in contact for some time. It was reported on 29 August that he had been located and both the Scottish government and council issued a statement confirming that they had been in contact with his family and that his licence had not been breached. MP Andrew Mitchell said Al-Megrahi was comatose and near death. CNN reporter Nic Robertson said he was \"just a shell of the man he once was\" and was surviving on oxygen and an intravenous drip. In an interview on BBC Radio 5 Live, former US ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton called for Al-Megrahi to be extradited.\n\nTo me it will be a signal of how serious the rebel government is for good relations with the United States and the West if they hand over Megrahi for trial.\n\nMohammed al-Alagi, justice minister for the new leadership in Tripoli, said \"the council would not allow any Libyan to be deported to face trial in another country ... Abdelbaset al-Megrahi has already been judged once, and will not be judged again.\"\n\nMegrahi died of prostate cancer in Libya on 20 May 2012. Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond said that people should use the occasion to remember the Lockerbie victims.\n\nUntil 2003, Libya had never formally admitted carrying out the 1988 Lockerbie bombing. On 16 August 2003, Libya formally admitted responsibility for Pan Am Flight 103 in a letter presented to the president of the United Nations Security Council. Felicity Barringer of \"The New York Times\" said that the letter had \"general language that lacked any expression of remorse\" for the people killed in the bombing. The letter stated that it \"accepted responsibility for the actions of its officials\".\n\nThe motive that is generally attributed to Libya can be traced back to a series of military confrontations with the US Navy that took place in the 1980s in the Gulf of Sidra, the whole of which Libya claimed as its territorial waters. First, there was the Gulf of Sidra incident (1981) when two Libyan fighter aircraft were shot down by two US Navy F-14 Tomcat fighters. Then, two Libyan radio ships were sunk in the Gulf of Sidra. Later, on 23 March 1986, a Libyan Navy patrol boat was sunk in the Gulf of Sidra, followed by the sinking of another Libyan vessel on 25 March 1986. The Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi, was accused of retaliating for these sinkings by ordering the April 1986 bombing of La Belle, a West Berlin nightclub frequented by US military personnel, killing three people and injuring 230.\n\nThe US National Security Agency's (NSA) alleged interception of an incriminatory message from Libya to its embassy in East Berlin provided US President Ronald Reagan with the justification for Operation El Dorado Canyon on 15 April 1986, with US Navy and US Marine Corps warplanes launching from three aircraft carriers in the Gulf of Sidra and US Air Force warplanes launching from two British bases—the first US military strikes from Britain since World War II—against Tripoli and Benghazi in Libya. The Libyan government claimed the air strikes killed Hana Gaddafi, a daughter Gaddafi claimed he adopted (her reported age has varied between 15 months and seven years). To avenge his daughter's supposed death (Hana or Hanna's actual fate remains disputed), Gaddafi is said to have sponsored the September 1986 hijacking of Pan Am Flight 73 in Karachi, Pakistan.\n\nThe US in turn encouraged and aided the Chadian National Armed Forces (FANT) by supplying satellite intelligence during the Battle of Maaten al-Sarra. The attack resulted in a devastating defeat for Gaddafi's forces, following which he had to accede to a ceasefire ending the Chadian-Libyan conflict and his dreams of African dominance. Gaddafi blamed the defeat on French and US \"aggression against Libya\". The result was Gaddafi's lingering animosity against the two countries which led to Libyan support for the bombings of Pan Am Flight 103 and UTA Flight 772.\n\nPrior to the abandonment of Megrahi's second appeal against conviction and while new evidence could be still tested in court, there had been few calls for an independent inquiry into the Lockerbie bombing. Demands for such an inquiry emerged later, and became more insistent. On 2 September 2009, former MEP Michael McGowan demanded that the UK government call for an urgent, independent inquiry led by the UN to find out the truth about Pan Am flight 103. \"We owe it to the families of the victims of Lockerbie and the international community to identify those responsible,\" McGowan said. Two online petitions were started: one calling for a UK public inquiry into the Lockerbie bombing; the other a UN inquiry into the murder of UN Commissioner for Namibia, Bernt Carlsson, in the 1988 Lockerbie bombing. In September 2009, a third petition which was addressed to the President of the United Nations General Assembly demanded that the UN should \"institute a full public inquiry\" into the Lockerbie disaster. On 3 October 2009, Malta was asked to table a UN resolution supporting the petition, which was signed by 20 people including the families of the Lockerbie victims, authors, journalists, professors, politicians and parliamentarians, as well as Archbishop Desmond Tutu. The signatories considered that a UN inquiry could help remove \"many of the deep misgivings which persist in lingering over this tragedy\" and could also eliminate Malta from this terrorist act. Malta was brought into the case because the prosecution argued that the two accused Libyans, Abdelbaset al-Megrahi and Lamin Khalifah Fhimah, had placed the bomb on an Air Malta aircraft before it was transferred at Frankfurt airport to a feeder flight destined for London's Heathrow airport, from which Pan Am Flight 103 departed. The Maltese government responded saying that the demand for a UN inquiry was \"an interesting development that would be deeply considered, although there were complex issues surrounding the event.\"\n\nOn 24 August 2009, Lockerbie campaigner Dr Jim Swire wrote to Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, calling for a full inquiry, including the question of suppression of the Heathrow evidence. This was backed up by a delegation of Lockerbie relatives, led by Pamela Dix, who went to 10 Downing Street on 24 October 2009 and handed over a letter addressed to Gordon Brown calling for a meeting with the Prime Minister to discuss the need for a public inquiry and the main issues that it should address. An op-ed article by Pamela Dix, subtitled \"The families of those killed in the bombing have not given up hope of an inquiry to help us learn the lessons of this tragedy\", was published in \"The Guardian\" on 26 October 2009. On 1 November 2009, it was reported that Gordon Brown had ruled out a public inquiry into Lockerbie, saying in response to Dr Swire's letter: \"I understand your desire to understand the events surrounding the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 but I do not think it would be appropriate for the UK government to open an inquiry of this sort.\" UK ministers explained that it was for the Scottish Government to decide if it wants to hold its own, more limited, inquiry into the worst terrorist attack on British soil. The Scottish Government had already rejected an independent inquiry, saying it lacks the constitutional power to examine the international dimensions of the case.\n\nConcluding his extensive reply dated 27 October 2009 to the Prime Minister, Dr Swire said: \"You have now received a much more comprehensive letter requesting a full inquiry from our group 'UK Families-Flight 103'. I am one of the signatories. I hope that the contents of this letter underline some of the reasons as to why I cannot possibly accept that any inquiry should be limited to Scotland, and I apologise if my previous personal letter of 24 August misled you over the main focus that the inquiry will need to address. That focus lies in London and at the door of the then inhabitant of Number 10 Downing Street. I look forward to hearing your comments both to our group's letter and to the contents of this one.\"\n\nOn 23 February 2011, amidst the Libyan Civil War, Mustafa Abdul Jalil, former Libyan Justice Minister (and later member and Chairman of the anti-Gaddafi National Transitional Council), alleged that he had evidence that Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi, had personally ordered Abdelbaset al-Megrahi to bomb Pan Am Flight 103.\n\nBased on a 1995 investigation by journalists Paul Foot and John Ashton, alternative explanations of the plot to commit the Lockerbie bombing were listed by \"The Guardian\"'s Patrick Barkham in 1999. Following the Lockerbie verdict in 2001 and the appeal in 2002, attempts have been made to re-open the case amid allegations that Libya was framed. One theory suggests the bomb on the plane was detonated by radio. Another theory suggests the CIA prevented the suitcase containing the bomb from being searched. Iran's involvement is alleged, either in association with a Palestine militant group, or in loading the bomb while the plane was at Heathrow. The US Defense Intelligence Agency alleges that Ali Akbar Mohtashamipur (\"Ayatollah Mohtashemi\"), a member of the Iranian government, paid US$10 million for the bombing:\n\nOther theories implicate Libya and Abu Nidal, and apartheid South Africa.\n\nOn 29 September 1989, President Bush appointed Ann McLaughlin Korologos, former Secretary of Labor, to chair the President's Commission on Aviation Security and Terrorism (PCAST) to review and report on aviation security policy in the light of the sabotage of flight PA103. Oliver \"Buck\" Revell, the FBI's Executive Assistant Director, was assigned to advise and assist PCAST in their task.\n\nBefore submitting their report, the PCAST members met a group of British PA103 relatives at the US embassy in London on 12 February 1990. One of the British relatives, Martin Cadman, alleges that a member of President Bush's staff told him: \"Your government and ours know exactly what happened but they are never going to tell.\" The statement first came to public attention in the 1994 documentary film \"The Maltese Double Cross – Lockerbie\" and was published in both \"The Guardian\" of 12 November 1994, and a special report from \"Private Eye\" magazine entitled \"Lockerbie, the flight from justice\" May/June 2001.\n\nOn 29 May 2002, Libya offered up to US$2.7 billion to settle claims by the families of the 270 killed in the Lockerbie bombing, representing US$10 million per family. The Libyan offer was that 40% of the money would be released when United Nations sanctions, suspended in 1999, were cancelled; another 40% when US trade sanctions were lifted; and the final 20% when the US State Department removed Libya from its list of states sponsoring terrorism.\n\nJim Kreindler of the New York law firm Kreindler & Kreindler, which orchestrated the settlement, said: \"These are uncharted waters. It is the first time that any of the states designated as sponsors of terrorism have offered compensation to families of terror victims.\" The US State Department maintained that it was not directly involved. \"Some families want cash, others say it is blood money\", said a State Department official.\n\nCompensation for the families of the PA103 victims was among the steps set by the UN for lifting its sanctions against Libya. Other requirements included a formal denunciation of terrorism—which Libya said it had already made—and \"accepting responsibility for the actions of its officials\".\n\nOn 15 August 2003, Libya's UN ambassador, Ahmed Own, submitted a letter to the UN Security Council formally accepting \"responsibility for the actions of its officials\" in relation to the Lockerbie bombing. The Libyan government then proceeded to pay compensation to each family of US$8 million (from which legal fees of about US$2.5 million were deducted) and, as a result, the UN cancelled the sanctions that had been suspended four years earlier, and US trade sanctions were lifted. A further US$2 million would have gone to each family had the US State Department removed Libya from its list of states regarded as supporting international terrorism, but as this did not happen by the deadline set by Libya, the Libyan Central Bank withdrew the remaining US$540 million in April 2005 from the escrow account in Switzerland through which the earlier US$2.16 billion compensation for the victims' families had been paid. The United States announced resumption of full diplomatic relations with Libya after deciding to remove it from its list of countries that support terrorism on 15 May 2006.\n\nOn 24 February 2004, Libyan Prime Minister Shukri Ghanem stated in a BBC Radio 4 interview that his country had paid the compensation as the \"price for peace\" and to secure the lifting of sanctions. Asked if Libya did not accept guilt, he said, \"I agree with that.\" He also said there was no evidence to link Libya with the April 1984 shooting of police officer Yvonne Fletcher outside the Libyan Embassy in London. Gaddafi later retracted Ghanem's comments, under pressure from Washington and London.\n\nA civil action against Libya continued until 18 February 2005 on behalf of Pan Am and its insurers, which went bankrupt partly as a result of the attack. The airline was seeking $4.5 billion for the loss of the aircraft and the effect on the airline's business.\n\nIn the wake of the SCCRC's June 2007 decision, there have been suggestions that, if Megrahi's second appeal had been successful and his conviction had been overturned, Libya could have sought to recover the $2.16 billion compensation paid to the relatives. Interviewed by French newspaper \"Le Figaro\" on 7 December 2007, Saif al-Islam Gaddafi said that the seven Libyans convicted for the Pan Am Flight 103 and the UTA Flight 772 bombings \"are innocent\". When asked if Libya would therefore seek reimbursement of the compensation paid to the families of the victims (US$33 billion in total), Saif Gaddafi replied: \"I don't know\".\n\nFollowing discussions in London in May 2008, US and Libyan officials agreed to start negotiations to resolve all outstanding bilateral compensation claims, including those relating to UTA Flight 772, the 1986 Berlin discotheque bombing and Pan Am Flight 103. On 14 August 2008, a US-Libya compensation deal was signed in Tripoli by US Assistant Secretary of State David Welch and Libya's Foreign Ministry head of America affairs, Ahmed al-Fatroui. The agreement covers 26 lawsuits filed by American citizens against Libya, and three by Libyan citizens in respect of the US bombing of Tripoli and Benghazi in April 1986 which killed at least 40 people and injured 220. In October 2008 Libya paid $1.5 billion into a fund which will be used to compensate relatives of the\n\n\nAs a result, President Bush signed restoring the Libyan government's immunity from terror-related lawsuits and dismissing all of the pending compensation cases in the US, the White House said. US State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, called the move a \"laudable milestone ... clearing the way for a continued and expanding US-Libyan partnership.\"\n\nIn an interview shown in BBC Two's \"The Conspiracy Files: Lockerbie\" on 31 August 2008, Saif Gaddafi said that Libya had admitted responsibility for the Lockerbie bombing simply to get trade sanctions removed. He went on to describe the families of the Lockerbie victims as very greedy: \"They were asking for more money and more money and more money\". Several of the victims families refused to accept compensation due to their belief that Libya was not responsible.\n\nIn an interview with Swedish newspaper Expressen on 23 February 2011, Mustafa Abdul Jalil, former Justice Secretary of Libya, claimed to have evidence that Gaddafi personally ordered Al-Megrahi to carry out the bombing.\n\nQuotes: \"[Jalil] told Expressen Khadafy [sic] gave the order to Abdel Baset al-Megrahi, the only man convicted in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, which killed all 259 people on board and 11 on the ground on 21 December 1988.\n'To hide it, he (Khadafy) did everything in his power to get al-Megrahi back from Scotland,' Abdel-Jalil was quoted as saying.\"\n\nAl Jalil's commentary to the Expressen came during widespread political unrest and protests in Libya calling for the removal of Ghaddafi from power. The protests were part of a massive wave of unprecedented uprisings across the Arab world in: Tunisia, Morocco, Bahrain and Egypt, where Egyptian protesters effectively forced the removal of long-term ruler, Hosni Mubarak, from office. Jalil's comments came on a day when Ghaddafi's defiance and refusal to leave his command prompted his brutal attacks on Libyan protesters.\n\nAbdel-Jalil stepped down as minister of justice in protest over the violence against anti-government demonstrations.\n\nOn 5 December 2003, Jim Kreindler revealed that his Park Avenue law firm would receive an initial contingency fee of around US$1 million from each of the 128 American families Kreindler represents. The firm's fees could exceed US$300 million eventually. Kreindler argued that the fees were justified, since \"Over the past seven years we have had a dedicated team working tirelessly on this and we deserve the contingency fee we have worked so hard for, and I think we have provided the relatives with value for money.\"\n\nAnother top legal firm in the US, Speiser Krause, which represented 60 relatives, of whom half were UK families, concluded contingency deals securing them fees of between 28 and 35% of individual settlements. Frank Granito of Speiser Krause noted that \"the rewards in the US are more substantial than anywhere else in the world but nobody has questioned the fee whilst the work has been going on, it is only now as we approach a resolution when the criticism comes your way.\"\n\nIn March 2009, it was announced that US lobbying firm, Quinn Gillespie & Associates, received fees of $2 million for the work it did from 2006 through 2008 helping the PA103 relatives obtain payment by Libya of the final $2 million compensation (out of a total of $10 million) that was due to each family.\n\nIn 1992, a US federal court found Pan Am guilty of willful misconduct due to lax security screening. Alert Management Inc. and Pan American World Services, two subsidiaries of Pan Am, were also found guilty; Alert handled Pan Am's security at foreign airports.\n\nThere are several private and public memorials to the PA103 victims. \"Dark Elegy\" is the work of sculptor Susan Lowenstein of Long Island, whose son Alexander, then 21, was a passenger on the flight. The work consists of 43 nude statues of the wives and mothers who lost a husband or a child. Inside each sculpture there is a personal memento of the victim.\n\nOn 3 November 1995, then-US President Bill Clinton dedicated a Memorial Cairn to the victims at Arlington National Cemetery, and there are similar memorials at Syracuse University; Dryfesdale Cemetery, near Lockerbie; and in Sherwood Crescent, Lockerbie.\n\nSyracuse University holds a memorial week every year called \"Remembrance Week\" to commemorate its 35 lost students. Every 21 December, a service is held in the university's chapel at 14:03 (19:03 UTC), marking the moment the bomb on board the aircraft was detonated. The university also awards university tuition fees to two students from Lockerbie Academy each year, in the form of its Lockerbie scholarship. In addition, the university annually awards 35 scholarships to seniors to honour each of the 35 students killed. The \"Remembrance Scholarships\" are among the highest honors a Syracuse undergraduate can receive. SUNY Oswego also gives out scholarships in memorial of Colleen Brunner to a student who is studying abroad.\n\n\"The Women of Lockerbie\" (2003) is a play written by Deborah Brevoort which depicts a woman from New Jersey roaming the hills of Lockerbie, Scotland. This mother tragically lost her son in the bombing of the Pan Am Flight 103. While in Lockerbie, 7 years after the flight, she meets the women who witnessed and were affected by the crash itself while she attempts to find closure. This play has received the Silver Medal from the Onassis International Playwriting Competition and the Kennedy Center Fund for New American Plays award. \n\nThe main UK memorial is at Dryfesdale Cemetery about a mile west of Lockerbie. There is a semicircular stone wall in the garden of remembrance with the names and nationalities of all the victims along with individual funeral stones and memorials. Inside the chapel at Dryfesdale there is a book of remembrance. There are memorials in Lockerbie and Moffat Roman Catholic churches, where plaques list the names of all 270 victims. In Lockerbie Town Hall Council Chambers, there is a stained-glass window depicting flags of the 21 different countries whose citizens lost their lives in the disaster. There is also a book of remembrance at Lockerbie public library and another at Tundergarth Church. In Sherwood Crescent there is a garden of remembrance to the seven Lockerbie residents killed when the aircraft's main wreckage fell there, destroying their homes.\n\nA charity football match was arranged for the benefit of the disaster appeal fund. The game took place at Palmerston Park, the ground of Queen of the South, the nearest senior football club to Lockerbie. Opposition was provided by Manchester United and managed by Alex Ferguson. The game took place on 1 March 1989. QoS had several guest players in their side as reflected in their scorers, including goals by Roy Aitken and Fraser Wishart. The final score was 6–3 to Manchester United.\n\nThe Air Accidents Investigation Branch reassembled a large part of the fuselage from the Boeing jumbo jet to aid with the investigation; this has been retained as evidence and stored in a hangar at Farnborough Airport since the bombing. It was announced in April 2013 that this part of the aircraft was transferred to a secure location in Dumfries, and that it remains evidence in the ongoing criminal investigation.\n\nThe remaining wreckage of the Boeing jumbo jet is stored about a mile from Tattershall, Lincolnshire, at Roger Windley's scrapyard, pending the conclusion of the American victims' civil case and further legal proceedings. () The remains include the nose section of the Boeing 747, which was cut into several pieces to assist in removal from Tundergarth Hill.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10120046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10120046", "title": "Political science of religion", "text": "Political science of religion\n\nThe political science of religion (also referred to as politicology of religion or politology of religion) is one of the youngest disciplines in the political sciences that deals with a study of influence that religion has on politics and vice versa with a focus on the relationship between the subjects (actors) in politics in the narrow sense: government, political parties, pressure groups, and religious communities. It was established in the last decades of the twentieth century.\n\nThe basic research areas of the political science of religion are:\n\nThese fields of research are in constant development. The newest area of research in political science of religion is on the subject of religion and international relations.\n\nThe political science of religion or politology of religion was established as an academic discipline in 1993 at the Faculty of Political Science of the University of Belgrade, Serbia. The founder of this discipline is Dr Miroljub Jevtic; http://www.fpn.bg.ac.rs/en/undergraduate-studies/political-department/third-year/ . In 2006, Georgetown University established the Berkley Center for Religion, Peace, and World Affairs as one of the first American university research centers devoted to issues surrounding the political science of religion.\n\nThe \"Politics and Religion Journal\" was founded by the Center for Study of Religion and Religious Tolerance in Belgrade, Serbia in 2007. Its \"spiritus movens\" and editor in chief is Miroljub Jevtić, professor at the Faculty of Political Science, University of Belgrade, Serbia. The journal \"Politics and Religion\", produced by Cambridge Journals, published its first volume in 2008.\n\nThe political science of religion is studied at almost all universities and political science departments in the United States. The American Political Science Association has a religion and politics section.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2623876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2623876", "title": "Public security", "text": "Public security\n\nPublic security is the function of governments which ensures the protection of citizens, persons in their territory, organizations, and institutions against threats to their well-being – and to the prosperity of their communities.\n\nTo meet the increasing challenges in the public security area, responsible public institutions and organisations can tap into their own intelligence to successfully address possible threats in advance. They optimise their internal structures, use synergies, and carefully balance costs and benefits of their measures.\n\nPublic safety organizations include law enforcement, fire and emergency medical services. The public safety issues a municipality, county, state, or federal jurisdiction might grapple with include narcotic use, trespassing, burglary, harassment, juvenile delinquency, unauthorized living, noise, littering, inappropriate social behavior, inebriation, and other quality of life issues. Generally organizations are involved in the prevention of and protection from events that could endanger the safety of the general public from significant danger, injury, or property damage, such as crimes or disasters (natural or human-made).\n\nOrganised crime and international terrorism are hardly deterred by geographical, linguistic, or financial barriers. Competence and administrative hurdles play into their hands.\n\nThe latter has largely contributed to public security becoming an important political and economic issue, nationally as well as internationally. Politics, public organisations and businesses closely collaborate to guarantee public security and maintain a stable environment for economic prosperity.\n\nAlthough public security significantly contributes to the attractiveness of a location, the productivity of its people, and hence the overall success of an economy, the sector frequently suffers from low budgets, limited resources, and inadequate information systems. Large events, pandemics, severe accidents, environmental disasters, and terrorism attacks pose additional threats to public security and order.\n\nThe police, federal police and border authorities nonetheless need to warrant the security of the country as a fundamental prerequisite for the domestic political ability to act. The quality and scope of potential threats have changed significantly, and the tasks and general framework for the police, federal police and border authorities have changed accordingly.\n\n\n\n\nThere are five sub-sectors within public security:\n\nPolice Services:\n\n\nEmergency services include:\n\nJudicial services include:\n\nInterior services include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1191433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191433", "title": "RAND Health Insurance Experiment", "text": "RAND Health Insurance Experiment\n\nThe RAND Health Insurance Experiment (RAND HIE) was an experimental study of health care costs, utilization and outcomes in the United States, which assigned people randomly to different kinds of plans and followed their behavior, from 1974 to 1982. Because it was a randomized controlled trial, it provided stronger evidence than the more common observational studies. It concluded that cost sharing reduced \"inappropriate or unnecessary\" medical care (overutilization), but also reduced \"appropriate or needed\" medical care. \n\nThe RAND HIE was begun in 1971 by a group led by health economist Joseph Newhouse and including health service researchers Robert Brook and John Ware; health economists Willard Manning, Emmett Keeler, Arleen Leibowitz, and Susan Marquis; and statisticians Carl Morris and Naihua Duan. The group set out to answer this question (among others): \"Does free medical care lead to better health than insurance plans that require the patient to shoulder part of the cost?\".\n\nThe team established an insurance company using funding from the then-United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. The company randomly assigned 5809 people to insurance plans that either had no cost-sharing, 25%, 50% or 95% coinsurance rates with a maximum annual payment of $1000. It also randomly assigned 1,149 persons to a staff model health maintenance organization (HMO), the Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound. That group faced no cost sharing and was compared with those in the fee-for-service system with no cost sharing as well as an additional 733 members of the Cooperative who were already enrolled in it.\n\nAn early paper with interim results from the RAND HIE concluded that health insurance without coinsurance \"leads to more people using services and to more services per user,\" referring to both outpatient and inpatient services. Subsequent RAND HIE publications \"rule[d] out all but a minimal influence, favorable or adverse, of free care for the average participant\" but determined that a \"low income initially sick group assigned to the HMO... [had a] greater risk of dying\" than those assigned to fee-for-service (FFS) care. The experiment also demonstrated that cost sharing reduced \"appropriate or needed\" medical care as well as \"inappropriate or unnecessary\" medical care. Studies of specific conditions and diseases in the RAND HIE data found (for example) that the decrease in use of medical services had adverse effects on visual acuity and on blood pressure control. A Rand summary said that \"The projected effect was about a 10 percent reduction in mortality for those with hypertension.\"\n\nNewhouse, summarizing the RAND HIE in 2004, wrote \"For most people enrolled in the RAND experiment, who were typical of Americans covered by employment-based insurance, the variation in use across the plans appeared to have minimal to no effects on health status. By contrast, for those who were both poor and sick -- people who might be found among those covered by Medicaid or lacking insurance -- the reduction in use was harmful, on average\".\n\nThe RAND HIE was criticized in several ways:\n\nNevertheless, the study opened the way for increased cost-sharing for medical care in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe RAND HIE is still referenced in the academic literature as a \"gold standard\" study in research on the effects of health insurance. For example, in 2007 RAND researchers reviewed the literature published between 1985 and 2006 on prescription drug cost sharing, which included co-payments, tiering, coinsurance, pharmacy benefit caps or monthly prescription limits, formulary restrictions, and reference pricing. In summarizing 132 articles, they found that the RAND HIE provided the only relevant experimental data; all other studies they reviewed were observational. They concluded: \n\nIncreased cost sharing is associated with lower rates of drug treatment, worse adherence among existing users, and more frequent discontinuation of therapy. For each 10% increase in cost sharing, prescription drug spending decreases by 2% to 6%, depending on class of drug and condition of the patient. The reduction in use associated with a benefit cap, which limits either the coverage amount or the number of covered prescriptions, is consistent with other cost-sharing features. For some chronic conditions, higher cost sharing is associated with increased use of medical services, at least for patients with congestive heart failure, lipid disorders, diabetes, and schizophrenia. While low-income groups may be more sensitive to increased cost sharing, there is little evidence to support this contention.\nFurthermore, the RAND HIE is mentioned regularly in the newsmedia, for example:\n\nIn 2008, for reasons of cost, Oregon's Medicaid agency accepted 10,000 uninsured low-income adults into its insurance program based on a lottery with 89,824 applicants. In the Oregon Health Study, Newhouse and others tracked the effects on those who were accepted and rejected. They found that health insurance improved peoples' health and lives generally, but they also spent more money on health care.\n\nAccording to economist Katherine Baicker, the study \"put to rest two incorrect arguments.\"\n\nNew data regarding the Oregon experiment shows that, while it was effective to reduce out-of-pocket payment by the beneficiaries and increase their financial security, it did not lead to objective improvements in blood sugar, blood pressure, or some other metrics. These findings contradicted the earlier results, which had shown greater effects upon people's health. However, these results are based on two years of data, and longer follow-up might reveal different results. The study did indicate a significant improvement in rates of depression in the two-year window. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "690525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690525", "title": "Richard Walther Darré", "text": "Richard Walther Darré\n\nRichard Walther Darré, born Ricardo Walther Óscar Darré (14 July 1895 – 5 September 1953), was one of the leading Nazi \"blood and soil\" (German: \"Blut und Boden\") ideologists and served as Reich Minister of Food and Agriculture from 1933 to 1942. He was a high-ranking functionary in the SS and the seventh most senior commander in the organisation.\n\nDarré was born in Belgrano, a Buenos Aires neighbourhood, in Argentina to Richard Oscar Darré, a German with Huguenot ancestry (born 10 March 1854, Berlin; died 20 February 1929, Wiesbaden) and Emilia Berta Eleonore, née Lagergren (born 23 July 1872 in Buenos Aires to a Swedish-born father and German-Spanish born mother; died 20 July 1936 in Bad Pyrmont). His father moved to Argentina in 1888 as a partner of the German international import/export wholesaler Engelbert Hardt & Co. Although his parents' marriage was not a happy one (Richard Walther remembered his father as a hard drinker and a womanizer), they lived prosperously, and educated their children privately until they were forced to return to Germany as a result of worsening international relations in the years preceding World War I. Darré gained fluency in four languages: Spanish, German, English, and French.\n\nDarré's parents sent him to Germany at age nine to attend school in Heidelberg; in 1911 he attended as an exchange pupil King's College School in Wimbledon. The rest of the family returned to Germany in 1912. Richard (as he was known in the family) then spent two years at the \"Oberrealschule\" in Gummersbach, followed in early 1914 by the \"Kolonialschule\" for resettlement in the German colonies at Witzenhausen, south of Göttingen, which awakened his interest in farming.\n\nAfter a single term at Witzenhausen, he volunteered for army service. He was lightly wounded a number of times while serving during World War I, but fared better than most of his contemporaries.\n\nWhen the war ended he contemplated returning to Argentina for a life of farming, but the family's weakening financial position during the years of inflation made this impossible. Instead he returned to Witzenhausen to continue his studies. He then obtained unpaid work as a farm assistant in Pomerania: his observation of the treatment of returning German soldiers there influenced his later writings.\n\nIn 1922 he moved to the University of Halle to continue his studies: here he took an agricultural degree, specialising in animal breeding. He did not complete his PhD studies until 1929, at the comparatively mature age of 34. During these years he spent some time working in East Prussia and Finland.\n\nHe married twice. In 1922 he married Alma Staadt, a schoolfriend of his sister Ilse. He divorced Alma in 1927, and subsequently married Charlotte Freiin von Vittinghoff-Schell, who survived him. The first marriage produced two daughters.\n\nAs a young man in Germany, Darré initially joined the Artaman League, a \"Völkisch\" youth-group committed to the back-to-the-land movement. In this context he began to develop the idea of the linkage between the future of the Nordic race and the soil: the tendency which became known as \"Blut und Boden\". Here \"Blut\" (blood) represents race or ancestry, while \"Boden\" expresses the concepts of soil, territory, or land. The essence of the theory involved the mutual and long-term relationship between a people and the land that it occupies and cultivates.\n\nDarré's first political article (1926) discussed \"Internal Colonisation\" and argued against Germany attempting to regain the lost colonies in Africa. Most of his writing at this time, however, concentrated on technical aspects of animal breeding. He wrote his first book, \"Das Bauerntum als Lebensquell der nordischen Rasse\" ('Peasantry as the life-source of the Nordic Race'), in 1928. It asserted that German farms had previously been bestowed on one son, the strongest, ensuring the best were farmers, but partible inheritance had destroyed that. Darré demanded the restoration of the ancient tradition, as well as serious efforts to restore the purity of Nordic blood, including exterminating the sick and impure.\n\nIn her biography of Darré, Anna Bramwell interprets his writing as an early example of \"Green\" or Conservationist thinking: he advocated more natural methods of land management, placing emphasis on the conservation of forests, and demanded more open-space and air in the raising of farm animals. Other scholars, however, have challenged this view. One sees Bramwell's books as \"devoid of credible evidence\" and containing \"gross errors\". Another acknowledges Bramwell's biography as \"undoubtedly the best single source on Darré in either German or English\" while at the same time saying that she \"consistently downplays the virulently fascist elements in his thinking, portraying him instead as a misguided agrarian radical.\"\n\nThose who heard and heeded Darré's arguments included Heinrich Himmler, himself one of the Artamans.\n\nDarré's work also glorified \"peasant virtues\" – as found in the remnants of the Nordics who lived in the country – and disparaged city living.\n\nIn his two major works, he defined the German peasantry as a homogeneous racial group of Nordic antecedents, who formed the cultural and racial core of the German nation. [..] Since the Nordic birth-rate was lower than that of other races, the Nordic race was under a long-term threat of extinction.\n\nIn July 1930, after Paul Schultze-Naumburg had introduced him to Adolf Hitler, Darré joined the Nazi Party and the \"SS\". Darré's NSDAP number was 248,256 and his SS number was 6,882. Darré went on to become an active Nazi \"Reichsleiter\" and to set up an agrarian political apparatus to recruit farmers into the party. Darré saw three main roles for this apparatus: to exploit unrest in the countryside as a weapon against the urban government; to win over the peasants as staunch Nazi supporters; to gain a constituency of people who could be used as settlers to displace the Slavs in future conquests in the East. The German historian Klaus Hildebrand described Darré together with Himmler and Alfred Rosenberg as one of the leaders of the \"agrarian\" fraction within the NSDAP who championed anti-industrial and anti-urban \"blood and soil\" ideology, expansion into Eastern Europe to win \"Lebensraum\", an alliance with Great Britain to defeat the Soviet Union, and staunch opposition to restoring the pre-1914 German colonial empire. The \"agrarian\" fraction took the view that Wilhelmine imperialism had taken Germany in the wrong direction by colonizing lands that were unsuitable for mass colonization by German settlers and had unwisely antagonized Britain. The lesson that the Nazi \"agrarians\" drew from the Second Reich was that Germany must restrict its ambitions to the continent of Europe in order to win an alliance with Britain and land suitable for German colonization. On 1 January 1932, \"Reichsführer-SS\" Himmler appointed him chief of the newly established SS Race and Settlement Main Office (\"Rasse- und Siedlungshauptamt\" or RuSHA), a racist and antisemitic organization. Darré was given the rank of SS-\"Gruppenführer\". The RuSHA was a department which implemented racial policies and was concerned with the racial integrity of the members of the SS.\n\nDuring the 1932 presidential election, Darré engaged in a campaign of anti-Semitic harassment against Theodor Duesterberg, the candidate of the conservative German National People's Party, who it emerged during the campaign was the grandson of a Jewish convert to Lutheranism. Duesterberg was so wounded by Darré's attacks that he challenged him to a duel, a challenge that Darré declined under the grounds that it was beneath him to fight a man with \"Jewish blood\". Duesterberg then took up his dispute with Darré before the court of honor of the Former Officers of the 1st Hanoverian Field Artillery Regiment of Scharnhorst, number 10 to which Darré belonged to. The court of honor ruled in Darré's favor.\n\nIn his religious views, Dárre would belong to the Pagan faction within the Nazi movement (see: Religious aspects of Nazism); however, unlike Heinrich Himmler and Alfred Rosenberg, he has not become a figure of interest in the speculation about Nazi occultism.\nDarré's works were primarily concerned with the ancient and present Nordic peasantry (the ideology of Blood and soil): within this context, he made an explicit attack against Christianity. In his two main works (\"Das Bauerntum als Lebensquell der Nordischen Rasse\", Munich, 1927 and \"Neuadel aus Blut und Boden\", Munich, 1930), Darré accused Christianity, with its \"teaching of the equality of men before God,\" of having \"deprived the Teutonic nobility of its moral foundations\", the \"innate sense of superiority over the nomadic tribes\".\n\nSoon after the Nazis came to power in 1933, Darré was initially excluded from the Cabinet. However, in June 1933, shortly after the Nazis seized full power, he became Reich Minister of Food and Agriculture, succeeding DNVP leader Alfred Hugenberg, who had resigned. He was also named \"Reichsbauernführer\" (usually translated as Reich Peasant Leader, though the word \"Bauer\" also denotes Farmer). Darré was one of the few Nazi ministers who knew his field well. He was instrumental in founding the Nazi \"Reichsnährstand\" corporation as part of the \"Gleichschaltung\" process. Darré campaigned for big landowners to part with some of their land to create new farms, and promoted the controversial Reichserbhofgesetz. He also converted most of the country's small farms into hereditary estates that were to be passed from father to son under the ancient laws of entailment. While this protected small farmers from foreclosure and many other modern financial problems, it also tied them and their descendants to the soil to the end of time.\n\nHe developed a plan for \"Rasse und Raum\" (\"race and space\", or territory) which provided the ideological background for the Nazi expansive policy on behalf of the \"Drang nach Osten\" (\"Drive to the east\") and of the \"Lebensraum\" (\"Living space\") theory expounded in \"Mein Kampf\". Darré strongly influenced Himmler in his goal to create a German racial aristocracy based on selective breeding. The Nazi policies of eugenics would lead to the annihilation of millions of non-Germans. In the course of the preparations for the \"Generalplan Ost\", Himmler would later break with Darré, whom he saw as too theoretical. Darré was generally on bad terms with Economy Minister Hjalmar Schacht, particularly as Germany suffered poor harvests in the mid 1930s.\n\nBy September 1938, Himmler was already demanding that Darré step down as leader of the RuSHA in favour of Günther Pancke. Darré finally had to resign as Reich Minister in 1942, ostensibly on health grounds, and was succeeded by his state secretary Herbert Backe.\n\nThe transcript of a 1940 speech supposedly given by Darré was published in \"Life magazine\", 9 December 1940: \"by blitzkrieg ... before autumn ... we shall be the absolute masters of two continents... a new aristocracy of German masters will be created [with] slaves assigned to it, these slaves to be their property and to consist of landless, non-German nationals... we actually have in mind a modern form of medieval slavery which we must and will introduce because we urgently need it in order to fulfill our great tasks. These slaves will by no means be denied the blessings of illiteracy; higher education will, in future, be reserved only for the German population of Europe...\"\n\nIn 1945, the American authorities arrested Darré at Flak-Kaserne Ludwigsburg and tried him at the subsequent Nuremberg Trials as one of 21 defendants in the Ministries Trial, also known as the Wilhelmstrasse Trial (1947–1949).\n\nHe was charged under the following counts:\n\n\nDarré was sentenced to seven years at Landsberg Prison. He was released in 1950 and spent his final years in Bad Harzburg. He died in a Munich hospital, on 5 September 1953, of liver cancer. Darré is buried in Goslar.\n\nHis two main writings were \"Das Bauerntum als Lebensquell der nordischen Rasse\" (1928) and \"Neuadel aus Blut und Boden\" (1930), translated into English as \"The Peasantry as Life Source of the Nordic Race\" and \"A New Nobility of Blood and Soil\" respectively.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24027530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24027530", "title": "Robert Edward Edmondson", "text": "Robert Edward Edmondson\n\nRobert Edward Edmondson (1872 in Dayton, Ohio – 1959) was an anti-Jewish pamphleteer and a defendant in the Great Sedition Trial of 1944. He was an organizer of the Pan-Aryan Conference. Edmondson had roots that went back to the colonial days of Virginia and Maryland and was primarily of Scottish descent. He saw himself as a nonpartisan patriot and referred to himself as a \"Native American\".\n\nEdmondson had a 40-year career as a reporter, editor, author and publisher on economics. He began his career as a journalist in Cincinnati, Ohio working as a reporter for the Cincinnati \"Post\". Later he moved to New York City and became a financial reporter for the New York Herald and the \"New York Mail and Express\". While in New York he became aware of what he came to believe was the Jewish manipulation of America’s economy and started an independent financial news outlet, the Edmondson Economic Service. At this time he also became friendly with Nazi propagandist Ulrich Fleischhauer and was a participant in the latter's \"Welt-Dienst/World-Service\" anti-Jewish news service.\n\nEdmondson believed President Franklin D. Roosevelt to be Jewish and published the flier \"Roosevelt’s Jewish Ancestry\" to make his case. His attacks on Roosevelt during the 1936 election campaign suggested that the President was under the control of Jews such as Bernard Baruch, Felix Frankfurter and Louis Brandeis.\n\nIn a series of essays called \"American Vigilante Bulletins\" which eventually numbered over 400, Edmondson in the 1930s and 1940s documented what he saw as the Jewish control of America in banking, the press and the media. His research was the forerunner to \"Who Rules America?\" written and distributed decades later by Dr. William L. Pierce. In 1953 he republished some of his bulletins in a book, \"I Testify\".\n\nEdmondson was also a strong anti-communist and much of his writing centered around the idea that fluoride in water was part of a communist conspiracy, as well as other plots attributed to communists.\n\nOn June 11, 1936 Edmondson was indicted by a Grand Jury in New York City and charged with \"libeling all persons of the Jewish Religion.\" In preparing his defense Edmondson subpoenaed some of the most prominent Jews of the time, including: Bernard Buruch, Henry Morgenthau, Rabbi Wise, Samuel Untermeyer, Mayor LaGuardia, James P. Warburg, Walter Lippmann and Justice Samuel Rosenman. In response, the American Jewish Committee petitioned the court to drop the charges against Edmondson. On May 10, 1938 the judge dismissed all indictments, ruling that there is no group libel law.\n\nIn the early 1940s Edmondson was again indicted for his anti-Semitism along with 29 others on charges of sedition. The Great Sedition Trial of 1944, as it became known, was eventually declared a mistrial and the charges were later dismissed. He was widely believed by U.S. intelligence to have been an agent for Nazi Germany.\n\nFrom New York City Edmondson moved to Stoddartsville, Pennsylvania and later to Grass Valley, California.\n\nThe following quote expresses his ideology:\nI am not against Jews because of their religion, as a race, a people or as individuals, but because Jewish leadership [i.e., the bankers] is actively anti-American, is attempting to jettison the American political philosophy and take over the Country, and that I would continue to be anti-Jewish until Jewry repudiated such subversion. Were the offender any other than the Jewish minority, my attitude would be precisely the same. This problem is the biggest and most acute thing in the world today...\n\nKnowing that pitiless publicity is the only cure for public evils, in 1934 I started on a campaign to expose Jewish Anti-Americanism and Talmudic Communism which has been called the \"Code of Hell\": a \"Rabbi Racket\" that victimizes its own followers; an international \"Satanic System\" subverting France, Britain, Germany and Russia, causing the present depression and moving to take over the United States through the Jewish Radical administration [of FDR.]\nEdmondson died aged 86 in 1959. Following his death his local paper, \"The Bend Bulletin\", was at the center of controversy amongst his followers who launched a concerted letter writing and pamphleteering campaign as far right leaders attacked the paper for an editorial that was highly critical of Edmondson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13744950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13744950", "title": "Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award", "text": "Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award\n\nThe Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award was created by the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial in 1984, now known as the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights to honour individuals around the world who show courage and have made a significant contribution to human rights in their country.\n\nIn addition to receiving a financial award, laureates can partner with the RFK Center on projects to advance their human rights work, benefiting from the resources and technologies at the foundation's disposal. Some have achieved their goals, some are in exile from their home country. The majority continue to live in their home country and work with the support of the center to establish the human rights they are working for.\n\nSince 1984, awards have been given to 37 individuals & organizations, from 24 different countries.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "210092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210092", "title": "Sanzō Nosaka", "text": "Sanzō Nosaka\n\nAfter leaving Britain, Nosaka traveled through the Soviet Union (USSR). He returned to Japan in 1922, where he co-founded the Japanese Communist Party (JCP). Nosaka became a labor organizer, but was arrested twice by the Japanese government for his activities. After being released from prison a second time, Nosaka secretly returned to the USSR in 1931, where he became an agent of the Comintern. He traveled to the West Coast of the United States, where he worked as a communist spy from 1934-1938.\n\nAfter leaving the United States, Nosaka worked in China from 1940–1945, supporting the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) by encouraging and recruiting captured Japanese soldiers to support and fight for the Chinese communists against the Imperial Japanese Army, and coordinating a spy network that operated throughout Japanese-occupied China. After the surrender of Japan in 1945, Nosaka returned to Japan with hundreds of other Japanese communists, where he led the Japanese Communist Party during the occupation of Japan.\n\nNosaka attempted to brand the JCP as a populist party supporting Japan's peaceful transition into socialism, but his strategy was criticized within the party and within the Soviet Union. During the Korean War the JCP temporarily endorsed violence, and Nosaka disappeared from public life and went underground. He re-emerged to lead the JCP again in 1955, after which he attempted to disrupt the US-Japan Security Treaty by organizing public demonstrations, but he generally supported the JCP's role as a peaceful party. In 1958 Nosaka became Chairman of the JCP, a position he held until retirement at the age of 90, after which he was declared Honorary Chairman. Nosaka joined the faculty of Keio University, and he was widely idolized among left-wing intellectuals until shortly before his death, when the fall of the Soviet Union exposed controversial aspects of his relationship with Stalin's Communist regime.\n\nSanzō Nosaka was the son of a prosperous Japanese merchant and was raised in a bourgeois environment. As a young man Nosaka was known for his fashionable taste in clothing and for the large dog that often accompanied him in public. He was quiet, serious, studious, introverted, and more comfortable in libraries than at public demonstrations. After his secondary education, Nosaka attended Keio University, which was then considered a \"rich boys school\". At Keio, Nosaka became interested in the international labor movement, an interest that was largely supported by one of his professors, Kiichi Horie. Nosaka decided to write his senior thesis on the moderate labor organization founded by Bunji Suzuki, \"Yuaikai\" (\"The Friendly Society\"). To research his thesis, Nosaka contacted \"Yuaikai\"'s head office, and acquainted himself with its senior leaders: Suzuki initially mistook Nosaka for a salesman the first time they met, but eventually grew fond of Nosaka. When Nosaka graduated from Keio, in 1915, he joined \"Yuaikai\" and worked for the organization as a research staff member and as an editor of the organization's journal, \"Rodo Oyobi Sangyo\" (\"Labour and Industry\").\n\nNosaka became interested in communism after the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution. As a greater volume of leftist literature entered Japan from the West, Nosaka's political orientation moved farther from the center. The first Western texts on revolutionary social theory available in Japan were mostly on anarchism, but Nosaka also enjoyed Edward Bellamy's utopian novel, \"Looking Backward\". In 1918-1919 Nosaka read an English copy of \"The Communist Manifesto\" brought to Japan by his friend, Shinzo Koizumi. After reading \"The Communist Manifesto\", Nosaka embraced the theories of Marxism.\n\nNosaka announced his intentions to go abroad to study social theory in the November 1918 issue of \"Rodo Oyobi Sangyo\". He sailed out of Kobe harbor in July 7, 1919, and arrived in London on August 27. After his arrival, Nosaka studied political economy at London University. Like many British intellectuals at the time, Nosaka deepened his studies of Marxism, and became a confirmed communist at the university. While in London Nosaka became active in communist circles. He affiliated himself with notable trade union leaders active in London, and attended the September 8–13, 1919 Glasgow Trade Union Congress as a correspondent for \"Rodo Oyobi Sangyo\". Nosaka was a founding member of the Communist Party of Great Britain in 1920, and attended the Party's first session as a representative from London. Nosaka's activities within the Communist Party brought him to the attention of Scotland Yard, and Nosaka was deported from Britain in 1921. After he left Britain, Nosaka traveled through Europe to the newly formed Soviet Union. In Russia, with the help of friendly contacts in the communist hierarchy, Nosaka became influential within the Communist Party. Nosaka was suspected of being either a British or Japanese agent; but, because of his contacts among high-ranking Finnish and Russian leaders, Nosaka was never purged. Nosaka wrote A Brief Review of the Labour Movement in Japan. It was published by the International Council of Trade and Industrial Unions in 1921\n\nAfter attending the Far Eastern People's Conference in the Soviet Union, Nosaka returned to Japan in 1922, and helped found the Japanese Communist Party (JCP) that same year. Nosaka was more secretive about his relationship with the Communist Party than he had been in Britain, and kept his membership a secret from Bunji Suzuki and other moderate labour leaders. After his return, Nosaka worked as a trade unionist and editor of the JCP's official newspaper, \"Musansha Shimbun\".\n\nBecause of his activities within the Communist Party (which was illegal in Japan), Nosaka, like many communists in Japan, was arrested (twice in his case), interrogated, and tortured by the Japanese kempeitai, but he was released after short periods both times. Nosaka was first arrested in 1923, and released within a year. After his release, Nosaka became more active within the Japanese labor movement. In March 1928, the Japanese police began a campaign to harass and destroy the JCP, beginning with the May 15 Incident. After his second arrest in 1929, Nosaka spent two years in jail. He was released in 1931 on the grounds of illness. The short lengths of Nosaka's arrests aroused suspicion among other Japanese communists that Nosaka had given important information to the Japanese secret police, but these suspicions were never acted upon.\n\nUpon his release, Nosaka secretly returned to the Soviet Union, arriving in Moscow in March 1931. While there, Nosaka served as a representative of the JCP, and worked as an executive member of the Comintern. While in Moscow Nosaka helped to draft the \"1932 Thesis\", which became the guiding document of the JCP until 1946. Most of his colleagues active in the JCP, who were not able to go abroad, were subsequently arrested by the kempeitai by the fall of 1932.\n\nOne of Nosaka's friends was Kenzo Yamamoto, a legendary Japanese communist who had been in the Soviet Union with his common-law wife, Matsu, since 1928. Yamamoto had a reputation as a great womanizer; and, when rumors circulated that Yamamoto was engaged in an affair with Nosaka's wife, Ryu, Nosaka wrote a confidential letter to the KGB (dated February 22, 1939) indicating that he believed Yamamoto and his wife were likely Japanese spies in the pay of the kempeitai. On Stalin's orders, both Yamamoto and Matsu were arrested as spies. A firing squad executed Yamamoto, and Matsu died in a gulag. Both Yamamoto and his wife were formally rehabilitated after their deaths by Nikita Khrushchev on May 23, 1956, recognizing the lack of any evidence that the two were actually spies. In his autobiography, Nosaka later wrote that he had tried to save Yamamoto's life.\n\nIn 1934, Nosaka secretly traveled to the West Coast of the United States, where he became involved in intelligence work on behalf of the International Liaison Department of the Comintern against the Imperial Japanese government. Nosaka's activities included disseminating information to communists still active in Japan, infiltrating and making contact with the Japanese communities active in the United States, and establishing a number of communist front organizations in Seattle, Los Angeles, and other cities on the West Coast. Nosaka worked to gain funding from the Comintern for his activities, and attempted to have other Japanese Communists secretly relocated to America. He planned to recruit American and Japanese agents to send to Yokohama to establish a cell that would operate as a communist front organization. Because the records from this period are incomplete, historians cannot be certain to what extent Nosaka's efforts in America were successful. Nosaka worked as a Comintern agent in America until 1938, when he returned to Moscow. In 1940, the Comintern ordered Nosaka to aid communist forces in China.\n\nIn May 1943, Nosaka was the representative of the JCP in the case of the dissolution of the Comintern.\n\nFrom March 1940 to the end of 1945, during the Second Sino-Japanese War, Nosaka resided at the Chinese Red Army base in Yan'an, in Shaanxi Province, where he headed the Japanese People's Emancipation League (JPEL). The JPEL engaged in the \"re-education\" of numerous Japanese prisoners of war (POWs) and created propaganda on behalf of the Chinese Communists. Japanese troops captured by the Communists were then used by the Communists in various civilian and military roles, and were especially valued because their level of technical expertise was generally greater than that of most Chinese soldiers. \"Re-educated\" Japanese troops were instrumental in a number of Communist victories after World War II, including the 1949 Pingjin Campaign, in which most of the artillery fielded by the Communists was manned by Japanese gunners. In general, the method of \"re-education\" devised and employed by Nosaka was highly effective.\n\nInitially, the Red Army was a purely guerrilla force without the facilities to imprison POWs. The policy of the Eighth Route Army, the main communist force active during World War II, was to interrogate prisoners and then release them. After reports surfaced that the Japanese were punishing Japanese prisoners after they returned, the Red Army's policy gradually changed to one of retraining POWs, and the communists began to implement this policy after Nosaka arrived in Yan'an. By the time of its war with China, the Japanese army was educating its officers and common soldiers to die rather than surrender. Injured soldiers were easily captured, and made up the bulk of Japanese POWs. Captured Japanese believed that they would be killed, but were instead fed and clothed, and began to develop a rapport with their captors.\n\nBesides Nosaka's regimen of psychological indoctrination, there were several reasons that Japanese POWs chose to join the Chinese communists. Communist guerrillas took care to develop an early rapport with their prisoners by treating them well. Captured Japanese soldiers were generally moved when they learned of the terrible conditions the war inflicted on the Chinese people, a perspective that they had not been exposed to before their capture. Closer to the end of the war, the growing possibility of defeat created anxiety among the Japanese army. Because of the Japanese military's policy to never surrender, Japanese soldiers never received any training about how to act as POWs: upon returning to Japanese ranks, many would face disgrace, punishment, and starvation. Many Japanese soldiers committed suicide after their capture, but those who chose to live generally came to sympathize with the Chinese. The Japanese army was aware of the existence of Nosaka's Communist Japanese soldiers, and feared the phenomena out of proportion to their actual threat. Koji Ariyoshi, an American who met Nosaka in Yan'an wrote that Nosaka was \"the Japanese national who undoubtedly contributed the most in the war against Japanese militarism\". The Japanese army attempted to use numerous spies and assassins in order to eliminate Nosaka (who used the name \"Okano Susumu\" for the duration of the war), but were unsuccessful. Nosaka maintained a network of agents throughout Japanese-occupied China, which he used to gather information about events within the Japanese Empire and about the war. \n\nFrom 1940 to 1943, Nosaka's presence in China was kept a secret. Under a Chinese name, Lin Zhe, he directed the work of the Research Office of the Japanese Problem. His work with the Research Office in Yan'an brought Yan'an's intelligence information about Japan up to date. Nosaka collected newspapers and other publications from Japan. To research the enemy, Nosaka and his crew took care to analyze current events in Japan and China, which they did by stocking Japanese newspapers, magazines, journals, and diaries that were purchased or seized on the battlefield.\n\nNosaka's Japanese \"prisoner converts\" fought freely for the Chinese communists once their re-education was complete. In Yan'an, the Japanese lived normal lives without guards, owned a cooperative store, and printed their own news bulletins and propaganda. Visiting American officers used Nosaka's Japanese soldiers to critique and improve their own methods of anti-Japanese psychological warfare. Shortly after Japan's surrender in 1945, Nosaka began to march with approximately 200 other Japanese Communists across northern China. They arrived at the coast after picking up hundreds of other Japanese along the way. Demanding immediate repatriation from the first Americans they found, they declared their intention to return and work \"for the democratization of Japan and the establishment of peace in the Far East\". Although there are no records of the exact number of Japanese \"re-educated\" by Nosaka who elected to remain in Communist-occupied China after 1945, it is estimated that \"the number must have been considerable\".\n\nNosaka's contributions to the eventual victory of the Red Army were not forgotten by the leaders he had worked with in China. In 1965, on the twentieth anniversary of Japan's defeat, Nosaka was publicly praised by name by the highest-ranking general in China at the time, Lin Biao.\n\nAfter the World War II, Nosaka's return to Japan was facilitated by E. Herbert Norman, the Canadian representative to the Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers, who may also have been a Soviet spy. Before returning to Japan, Nosaka gained Stalin's endorsement for the leadership of the Japanese Communist Party. Nosaka's re-entry to Japan was also aided by the American diplomat John S. Service, who had a history of being friendly to Chinese Communists. Before returning to Japan, Nosaka advised Joseph Stalin to retain the position of the Japanese Emperor, but to replace Emperor Hirohito with Crown Prince Akihito if the Communists ever gained control of Japan. \n\nNosaka returned to Japan in January 1946, and received a hero's welcome by the JCP. He returned to China as a recognized protege of Mao Zedong, and enjoyed the informal recognition as a \"roving ambassador\" for Japanese communism. After his return to Japan, Nosaka worked to organize Japanese communists. In the general elections of 1946, he and four other members of the JCP were elected to the Diet, and the party received 4% of the popular vote.\n\nThe JCP made progress infiltrating Japanese labor associations and socialist parties; and, in the general elections of 1949, the JCP gained 10% of the popular vote. In May 1950, shortly after the United States entered the Korean War with the support of the United Nations, the Cominform criticized the JCP's gradualist policies, and directed the party to actively disrupt the American occupation. \n\nThroughout the 1950s, Nosaka's efforts were challenged by American occupying forces, as part of a broader effort to suppress leftists. In 1949, a Communist-led general railroad strike led to several attempted derailments, and Sadanori Shimoyama, the president of Japanese National Railways, was found lying across a set of train tracks in Tokyo with his arms and legs cut off. These and other incidents of \"terrorism\" were received poorly by the Japanese public, and cost the JCP most of its popular support. The American commander of occupied Japan, Douglas MacArthur, declined to outlaw the JCP, but held the Party's leaders responsible, and, in June 1950, ejected Nosaka and the other Communist legislators who were elected in 1946. After losing his seat in the Diet, Nosaka disappeared from public life and was forced to work underground.\n\nAfter Nosaka went underground, the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency reported that he had temporarily returned to China. His strategy of \"peaceful revolution\" was criticized by the Cominform, and the Party temporarily endorsed violent revolution until 1952. After working covertly for several years, Nosaka re-emerged in 1955 as the First Secretary of the JCP. Nosaka was briefly arrested after he resurfaced, but quickly released. In 1958, Nosaka became the chairman of the JCP's Central Committee. He played a part in organizing a series of riots that lasted from May–June 1960 in opposition to the US-Japan Security Treaty. These demonstrations forced the American president, Dwight Eisenhower, to cancel a visit to Japan, and forced the Japanese Premier, Nobusuke Kishi, to resign, but failed to achieve their main goal of seriously disrupting US-Japan relations. In Japanese public opinion, the demonstrations were received as a national embarrassment, and the JCP received only 3% of the popular vote in the 1960 elections. The US-Japan Security Treaty was opposed by both ultra-rightists as well as ultra-leftists. In an attempt to stop the bill from being passed, an ultra-rightist university student named Otoya Yamaguchi, rushed the stage and fatally stabbed the leader of the Japanese Socialist Party, Inejiro Asanuma twice in the stomach with a wakizashi, as the latter was giving a speech in support of the bill. After his arrest, Yamaguchi told police that he had hoped to assassinate Nosaka as well. In Nov 1963, Nosaka survived an assassination attempt while making a speech in Osaka. The perpetrator was 22-year-old Masahiro Nakao, a member of the rightist group Dai Nippon Gokuku Dan. Nakao, armed with a dagger, leaped on a platform where Nosaka was giving his speech. Nakao was subdued by Party members who turned him over to the police.\n\nNosaka attempted to keep the JCP neutral during the Sino-Soviet Split of the 1960s, though the CIA interpreted that Nosaka's party remained somewhat more friendly with the Chinese. On Nosaka's seventieth birthday party in 1962, Nosaka received extravagant praise from Beijing. Deng Xiaoping praised Nosaka as an \"outstanding fighter of the Japanese people and comrade-in-arms of the Chinese people\". The Soviets sent Nosaka a matter-of-fact confirmation of his status within the JCP, and within a month sent the JCP another letter scolding the Party for not adequately supporting Soviet positions. The Soviets' measured praise of Nosaka was consistent with earlier Cominform criticism of Nosaka's political theories, which advocated a peaceful transition into communism.\n\nAfter his re-entry into public life in 1955, Nosaka was elected to the House of Councillors, a post that he held until 1977. Nosaka joined the faculty of Keio University, and was one of many prominent communist intellectuals active in Japanese academic institutions in his time. Nosaka remained the JCP's chairman from 1958–1982, when he stepped down at the age of 90 and took the role of \"Honorary Chairman\".\n\nOn September 27, 1992, two Journalists working for the magazine \"Shukan Bunshun\", Akira Kato and Shun'ichi Kobayashi, publicly revealed evidence of Nosaka's involvement in the deaths of Kenzo Yamamoto and his wife. On a trip to Moscow, Kobayashi and Kato had managed to purchase a number of KGB documents, which had been kept secret since the Stalinist era. Among these documents was the letter that Nosaka had written in 1939 denouncing Yamamoto and his wife.\n\nThe revelations of Nosaka's involvement in Yamamoto's death shocked the JCP, already reduced to six seats in the Diet after the 1991 elections. \"Akahata\" (\"Red Flag\"), a prominent communist newspaper, sent a team of journalists to Moscow to investigate the allegations, and they confirmed the authenticity of the documents.\n\nAfter the allegations against Nosaka became widely known, he checked himself into Yoyogi Hospital in Tokyo (a common tactic of Japanese politicians facing scandal). When a team of investigators sent by the JCP visited him, Nosaka confessed that the letter was his, but refused to discuss the matter further. The JCP ordered Nosaka to be present for a general Party meeting on December 27, 1992. After some deliberation, the party that Nosaka helped found expelled him by unanimous vote. The Party newspaper reported that Nosaka, when asked if he had any reply to the charges against him, would only state: \"I have nothing to say\".\n\nOne year after being expelled from the Japanese Communist Party, Sanzō Nosaka died in his home of old age. Outside the JCP, Nosaka was remembered for his gentle demeanor, good manners, and conservative sense of style, \"just like a British gentleman\". He was 101 years old.\n\nThe Chinese Documentary series \"Today In The History Of Anti-Japanese War\" dedicated an episode to Sanzō Nosaka.\n\nSanzō Nosaka was featured in the \"International Friends during the Anti-Japanese War\". A show organized by the Beijing People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. The show \"features 160 pictures of 39 foreign friends who worked together with the Chinese people and made contributions to China's independence and freedom.\"\n\nYonago Nosaka was a foster daughter of Sanzō Nosaka. She attended the 60th anniversary of the victory of the War against Fascism. She received a medal as a daughter of Sanzō Nosaka.\n\nNosaka used the pen names of Okano and Lin Zhe.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10632440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10632440", "title": "Shir LaShalom", "text": "Shir LaShalom\n\nShir LaShalom ( \"A Song for Peace\") is a popular Israeli song that has become an anthem for the Israeli peace movement.\n\nShir LaShalom was written by Yaakov Rotblit and set to music by Yair Rosenblum. It was first performed in 1969 by the Infantry Ensemble (להקת הנחל) of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) as part of its Sinai Infantry Outpost program, during the War of Attrition between Israel and Egypt. It featured the soloist Miri Aloni, who later became a celebrated folk singer and actor. Many of the other members of the ensemble who took part in the recording of the song went on to become well-known figures in the Israeli entertainment scene. Among them was Danny Sanderson, whose electric guitar solo opened the recording.\n\nRosenblum originally intended the song for the Israeli Navy Ensemble. He sent it to them from his home in London, with the stipulation that he arrange it himself. When the musical director of the Navy Ensemble, Benny Nagari, rejected that condition, Rosenblum passed the song on to the Nahal Infantry Ensemble, with which he had worked some time previously.\n\nBoth in its lyrics and its music, Shir LaShalom was influenced by the Anglo-American anti-war folk-rock songs of the 1960s.\n\nThe song expresses a yearning for peace. It mourns comrades who have fallen in battle, and claims to speak for the fallen. The lyrics take issue with the 'culture of bereavement', and with the glorification of war that allegedly exists in Israel. It calls on those who live on to strive for peace. In the line 'The purest of prayers will not bring us back' (הזכה שבתפילות אותנו לא תחזיר \"hazakah shebatfilot otanu lo takhzir\"), the lyrics seem to question the value of reciting the Kaddish prayer at the graveside. In a similar vein, they seem to confront an ethos that memorializes fallen soldiers: 'Let the sun penetrate through the flowers [on the graves]' (תנו לשמש לחדור מבעד לפרחים \"tnu lashemesh lakhador miba'ad la prakhim\"). In the lines 'Lift your eyes in hope, not through (gun) sights' (שאו עיניים בתקווה, לא דרך כוונות \"s'u 'enayim betikvah, lo derekh kavanot\"), the song uses martial concepts in order to subvert those same concepts. The lyrics are critical of songs that appear to glorify the culture of war; for example, Natan Alterman's War of Independence era \"Magash HaKesef\" ('Silver Platter'), and the songs \"Giv'at haTaḥmoshet\" ('Ammunition Hill', for which Yair Rosenblum also wrote the music) and \"Balada laḤovesh\" ('Ballad for a Corpsman') from 1968. Instead, the lyrics ask us to sing of love: 'Sing a song to love, and not to wars' (שירו שיר לאהבה, ולא למלחמות \"shiru shir la'ahavah velo lamilkhamot\").\n\nThat line originally read שירו שיר לאהבה, ולא לניצחונות 'Sing a song to love and not to victories'. The original wording extolled peace and love over any tally of victories and conquests. Since the song was intended for a military ensemble, the head of the IDF education department at that time demanded that the line be removed. He argued that the performance of such a song by soldiers before an audience of other soldiers would be damaging to morale. In the end the IDF agreed to the replacement of the last word of the line, ניצחונות \"nitsakhonot\" 'victories' by מלחמות \"milkhamot\" 'wars', and the song was recorded and published in that revised form.\n\nBoth in its tempo and its lyrics the song is evocative of an anthem. Frequent use is made of Hebrew imperative plural forms, like הביאו \"havi'u\" 'bring!' and הריעו \"hari'u\" 'cheer!' in the last verse. These forms exhort those who hear them to be proactive in the quest for peace. That message, apparently influenced by the hippie counter-culture of the era in which it was written, struck a chord with a large segment of the Israeli population.\n\nFrom the outset \"Shir LaShalom\" was divisive. Many identified with its message of peace, and some saw in it echoes of the \"Mt. Scopus Speech\" given by Yitzhak Rabin on accepting an Honorary Doctorate from Hebrew University (June 28, 1967). In that speech Rabin, who had been Chief of Staff during the Six Day War, had stressed the personal sacrifice both of those Israeli soldiers who fell in the war, in the great Israeli victory, as well as the price paid by the enemy.\n\nHowever, this was also the period–in the wake of victory in the Six Day War and before the trauma of the Yom Kippur War–when 'Israeli assertiveness' by a portion of the Israeli public was at its peak. Many saw the song as defeatist, and regarded as blasphemous the song's criticism of the supposed 'culture of bereavement'. When the head of the IDF's Central Command in 1969, Rehavam Ze'evi, heard the song performed, he banned the ensemble from appearing in the zone under his command, as did the general in charge of the IDF's southern command, Ariel Sharon.\n\nOver the years, the song became a kind of unofficial political anthem for the Israeli peace movement, particularly for Peace Now (שלום עכשיו \"Shalom Achshav\"). It is sung at their meetings and public demonstrations, occasionally in an Arabic version as well. The left-wing Meretz party purchased exclusive rights to use Shir LaShalom in its 1996 election campaign from the composer and lyricist, and changed the first line of the song from 'Let the sun rise' (תנו לשמש לעלות \"tnu lashemesh la'alot\") into the party slogan 'Let Meretz rise' (תנו למרץ לעלות \"tnu leMerets la'alot\").\n\nAt the close of a peace rally on November 4, 1995, those on the podium–Miri Aloni, the groups Gevatron and Irusim, and the statesmen Shimon Peres and Yitzhak Rabin–led the crowd in singing Shir LaShalom. Just after the rally ended, Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated. In his shirt pocket was found a page with the song's lyrics, stained with his blood.\n\nShir haShalom featured on the Rabin memorial album \"O Captain\" ( \"Rav Ḥovel\") released in 2000, and is regularly sung at ceremonies commemorating Rabin's death. In a cross-media poll held in Israel's 50th anniversary year of 1998 to select Israel's Song of the Jubilee, \"Shir LaShalom\" placed third.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54140715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54140715", "title": "Slovak Chamber of Architects", "text": "Slovak Chamber of Architects\n\nThe Slovak Chamber of Architects (, ) is a self-governing, state-owned legal entity of non-business nature based in Bratislava. It was established on 1 June 1992 by the Act of the Slovak National Council no. 138/1992 Coll (č. 138/1992 Zb.), about authorized architects and authorized building engineers. It is financed from own revenues without state subsidies. It is a member of the Architectural Council of Europe (ACE) and part of the network of competent authorities in architecture – the European Network of Architects Competent Authorities (ENACA). The organization brings together the architects and landscape architects in Slovakia.\n\nAuthorized landscape architects are a minority group in the chamber. In 2015 the publication \"Záhradná krajinná architektúra na Slovensku\", \"33 záhradných a krajinných architektov Slovenska\" (\"Landscape Architecture in Slovakia\", with the subtitle \"33 garden and landscape architects of Slovakia),\" . was published. It represents 33 encyclopaedically processed profiles of the most important contemporary Slovak garden architects and their creations. The aim of the publication is to highlight quality examples of implemented gardens and park modifications in Slovakia.\n\n"}
{"id": "10396793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10396793", "title": "The Holocaust", "text": "The Holocaust\n\nThe Holocaust, also referred to as the Shoah, was a genocide during World War II in which Nazi Germany, aided by its collaborators, systematically murdered some six million European Jews, around two-thirds of the Jewish population of Europe, between 1941 and 1945. Jews were targeted for extermination as part of a larger event involving the persecution and murder of other groups, including in particular the Roma and \"incurably sick\", as well as ethnic Poles and other Slavs, Soviet citizens, Soviet prisoners of war, political opponents, gay men and Jehovah's Witnesses, resulting in up to 17 million deaths overall.\n\nGermany implemented the persecution in stages. Following Adolf Hitler's rise to power in 1933, the government passed laws to exclude Jews from civil society, most prominently the Nuremberg Laws in 1935. Starting in 1933, the Nazis built a network of concentration camps in Germany for political opponents and people deemed \"undesirable\". After the invasion of Poland in 1939, the regime set up ghettos to segregate Jews. Over 42,000 camps, ghettos, and other detention sites were established.\n\nThe deportation of Jews to the ghettos culminated in the policy of extermination the Nazis called the \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question\", discussed by senior Nazi officials at the Wannsee Conference in Berlin in January 1942. As German forces captured territories in the East, all anti-Jewish measures were radicalized. Under the coordination of the SS, with directions from the highest leadership of the Nazi Party, killings were committed within Germany itself, throughout German-occupied Europe, and across all territories controlled by the Axis powers. Paramilitary death squads called \"Einsatzgruppen\" in cooperation with Wehrmacht police battalions and local collaborators murdered around 1.3 million Jews in mass shootings between 1941 and 1945. By mid-1942, victims were being deported from the ghettos in sealed freight trains to extermination camps where, if they survived the journey, they were killed in gas chambers. The killing continued until the end of World War II in Europe in May 1945.\n\nThe term \"holocaust\" comes from the Greek \"\": \"hólos\", \"whole\" and \"kaustós\", \"burnt offering\". The \"Century Dictionary\" defined it in 1904 as \"a sacrifice or offering entirely consumed by fire, in use among the Jews and some pagan nations\".\n\nThe biblical term \"shoah\" (שואה), meaning \"destruction\", became the standard Hebrew term for the murder of the European Jews, first used in a pamphlet in 1940, \"Sho'at Yehudei Polin\" (\"Sho'ah of Polish Jews\"), published by the United Aid Committee for the Jews in Poland. In October 1941 the magazine \"The American Hebrew\" used the phrase \"before the Holocaust\", apparently to refer to the situation in Europe, and in May 1943 \"The New York Times\", discussing the Bermuda Conference, referred to the \"hundreds of thousands of European Jews still surviving the Nazi Holocaust\". The Library of Congress created a new category, \"Holocaust, Jewish (1939–1945)\" in 1968; the term was popularized in the United States by the NBC mini-series \"Holocaust\" (1978), about a fictional family of German Jews. As non-Jewish groups began to count themselves as victims of the Holocaust too, many Jews chose to use the terms \"Shoah\" or \"Churban\" instead. The Nazis used the phrase \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question\" (\"die Endlösung der Judenfrage\").\n\nMost Holocaust historians define the Holocaust as the German state policy, enacted between 1941 and 1945, to exterminate the European Jews. In \"Teaching the Holocaust\" (2015), Michael Gray offers three definitions:\n\n\nThe third definition fails, Gray writes, to acknowledge that only the Jewish people were singled out for annihilation. Donald Niewyk and Francis Nicosia, in \"The Columbia Guide to the Holocaust\" (2000), favour a definition that focuses on the Jews, Roma, and Aktion T4 victims: \"The Holocaust—that is, Nazi genocide—was the systematic, state-sponsored murder of entire groups determined by heredity. This applied to Jews, Gypsies, and the handicapped.\"\n\nThe logistics of the mass murder turned the country into what Michael Berenbaum called \"a genocidal state\". Bureaucrats identified who was a Jew, confiscated property, and scheduled trains that deported Jews. Companies fired Jews and later employed them as slave labour. Universities dismissed Jewish faculty and students. German pharmaceutical companies tested drugs on camp prisoners; other companies built the crematoria. As prisoners entered the death camps, they were ordered to surrender all personal property, which was catalogued and tagged before being sent to Germany for reuse or recycling. Through a concealed account, the German National Bank helped launder valuables stolen from the victims.\n\nThe industrialization and scale of the murder was unprecedented. The killings were systematically conducted in virtually all areas of occupied Europe—more than 20 occupied countries. Close to three million Jews in occupied Poland and between 700,000 and 2.5 million Jews in the Soviet Union were killed. Hundreds of thousands more died in the rest of Europe. Victims were transported in sealed freight trains from all over Europe to extermination camps equipped with gas chambers. The stationary facilities grew out of Nazi experiments with poison gas during the Aktion T4 mass murder (\"euthanasia\") programme against the disabled and mentally ill, which began in 1939. The Germans set up six extermination camps in Poland: Auschwitz-Birkenau (established October 1941); Majdanek (October 1941); Chełmno (December 1941); and in 1942 the three Operation Reinhard camps at Belzec, Sobibor, and Treblinka.\n\nEberhard Jäckel writes that it was the first time a state had thrown its power behind the idea that an entire people should be wiped out. Anyone with three or four Jewish grandparents was to be exterminated, and complex rules were devised to deal with \"Mischlinge\" (half and quarter Jews, or \"mixed breeds\"). Without the help of local collaborators, the Germans would not have been able to extend the Holocaust across most of Europe; over 200,000 people are estimated to have been Holocaust perpetrators. Saul Friedländer writes: \"Not one social group, not one religious community, not one scholarly institution or professional association in Germany and throughout Europe declared its solidarity with the Jews.\" Some Christian churches declared, according to Friedländer, \"that converted Jews should be regarded as part of the flock, but even then only up to a point\". Discussions at the Wannsee Conference in January 1942 make it clear that the German \"final solution of the Jewish question\" was intended eventually to include Britain and all the neutral states in Europe, including Ireland, Switzerland, Turkey, Sweden, Portugal, and Spain.\n\nMedical experiments conducted on camp inmates by the SS were another distinctive feature. At least 7,000 prisoners were subjected to experiments; most died as a result, during the experiments or later. Twenty-three senior physicians and other medical personnel were charged at Nuremberg, after the war, with crimes against humanity. They included the head of the German Red Cross, tenured professors, clinic directors, and biomedical researchers. Experiments took place at Auschwitz, Buchenwald, Dachau, Natzweiler, Neuengamme, Ravensbrück, Sachsenhausen, and elsewhere. Some dealt with sterilization of men and women, the treatment of war wounds, ways to counteract chemical weapons, research into new vaccines and drugs, and the survival of harsh conditions.\n\nThe most notorious physician was Josef Mengele, an SS officer who became the Auschwitz camp doctor on 30 May 1943. Interested in genetics and keen to experiment on twins, he would pick out subjects from the new arrivals during \"selection\" on the ramp, shouting \"Zwillinge heraus!\" (twins step forward!). They would be measured, killed, and dissected. One of Mengele's assistants said in 1946 that he was told to send organs of interest to the directors of the \"Anthropological Institute in Berlin-Dahlem\". This is thought to refer to Mengele's academic supervisor, Otmar von Verschuer, director from October 1942 of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Anthropology, Human Heredity, and Eugenics in Berlin-Dahlem. Mengele's experiments included placing subjects in pressure chambers, testing drugs on them, freezing them, attempting to change their eye color by injecting chemicals into children's eyes, and amputations and other surgeries.\n\nThroughout the Middle Ages in Europe, Jews were subjected to antisemitism based on Christian theology, which blamed them for killing Jesus. Even after the Reformation, Catholicism and Lutheranism continued to persecute Jews, accusing them of blood libels and subjecting them to pogroms and expulsions. The second half of the 19th century saw the emergence in the German empire and Austria-Hungary of the \"völkisch\" movement, which was developed by such thinkers as Houston Stewart Chamberlain and Paul de Lagarde. The movement embraced a pseudo-scientific racism that viewed Jews as a race whose members were locked in mortal combat with the Aryan race for world domination. These ideas became commonplace throughout Germany, with the professional classes adopting an ideology that did not see humans as racial equals with equal hereditary value. Although the \"völkisch\" parties had support in elections at first, by 1914 they were no longer influential. This did not mean that antisemitism had disappeared; instead it was incorporated into the platforms of several mainstream political parties.\n\nThe political situation in Germany and elsewhere in Europe after World War I (1914–1918) contributed to the rise of virulent antisemitism. Many Germans did not accept that their country had been defeated, which gave birth to the stab-in-the-back myth. This insinuated that it was disloyal politicians, chiefly Jews and communists, who had orchestrated Germany's surrender. Inflaming the anti-Jewish sentiment was the apparent over-representation of Jews in the leadership of communist revolutionary governments in Europe, such as Ernst Toller, head of a short-lived revolutionary government in Bavaria. This perception contributed to the canard of Jewish Bolshevism.\n\nThe economic strains of the Great Depression led some in the German medical establishment to advocate murder (euphemistically called \"euthanasia\") of the \"incurable\" mentally and physically disabled as a cost-saving measure to free up funds for the curable. By the time the National Socialist German Workers' Party, or Nazi Party, came to power in 1933, there was already a tendency to seek to save the racially \"valuable\", while ridding society of the racially \"undesirable\". The party had originated in 1920 as an offshoot of the \"völkisch\" movement, and it adopted that movement's antisemitism. Early antisemites in the party included Dietrich Eckart, publisher of the \"Völkischer Beobachter\", the party's newspaper, and Alfred Rosenberg, who wrote antisemitic articles for it in the 1920s. Rosenberg's vision of a secretive Jewish conspiracy ruling the world would influence Hitler's views of Jews by making them the driving force behind communism. The origin and first expression of Hitler's antisemitism remain a matter of debate. Central to his world view was the idea of expansion and \"lebensraum\" (living space) for Germany. Open about his hatred of Jews, he subscribed to the common antisemitic stereotypes. From the early 1920s onwards, he compared the Jews to germs and said they should be dealt with in the same way. He viewed Marxism as a Jewish doctrine, said he was fighting against \"Jewish Marxism\", and believed that Jews had created communism as part of a conspiracy to destroy Germany.\n\nWith the establishment of the Third Reich in 1933, German leaders proclaimed the rebirth of the \"Volksgemeinschaft\" (\"people's community\"). Nazi policies divided the population into two groups: the \"Volksgenossen\" (\"national comrades\") who belonged to the \"Volksgemeinschaft\", and the \"Gemeinschaftsfremde\" (\"community aliens\") who did not. Enemies were divided into three groups: the \"racial\" or \"blood\" enemies, such as the Jews and Roma; political opponents of Nazism, such as Marxists, liberals, Christians, and the \"reactionaries\" viewed as wayward \"national comrades\"; and moral opponents, such as gay men, the \"work-shy\", and habitual criminals. The latter two groups were to be sent to concentration camps for \"re-education\", with the aim of eventual absorption into the \"Volksgemeinschaft\". \"Racial\" enemies could never belong to the \"Volksgemeinschaft\"; they were to be removed from society.\n\nBefore and after the March 1933 \"Reichstag\" elections, the Nazis intensified their campaign of violence against opponents. They set up concentration camps for extrajudicial imprisonment. One of the first, at Dachau, opened on 9 March 1933. Initially the camp contained mostly Communists and Social Democrats. Other early prisons were consolidated by mid-1934 into purpose-built camps outside the cities, run exclusively by the SS. The initial purpose of the camps was to serve as a deterrent by terrorizing Germans who did not conform.\n\nThroughout the 1930s, the legal, economic, and social rights of Jews were steadily restricted. On 1 April 1933, there was a boycott of Jewish businesses. On 7 April 1933, the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service was passed, which excluded Jews and other \"non-Aryans\" from the civil service. Jews were disbarred from practising law, being editors or proprietors of newspapers, or joining the Journalists' Association. Jews were not allowed to own farms. In Silesia, in March 1933, a group of men entered the courthouse and beat up Jewish lawyers; Friedländer writes that, in Dresden, Jewish lawyers and judges were dragged out of courtrooms during trials. Jewish students were restricted by quotas from attending schools and universities. Jewish businesses were targeted for closure or \"Aryanization\", the forcible sale to Germans; of the approximately 50,000 Jewish-owned businesses in Germany in 1933, about 7,000 were still Jewish-owned in April 1939. Works by Jewish composers, authors, and artists were excluded from publications, performances, and exhibitions. Jewish doctors were dismissed or urged to resign. The \"Deutsches Ärzteblatt\" (a medical journal) reported on 6 April 1933: \"Germans are to be treated by Germans only.\"\n\nThe Nazis used the phrase \"Lebensunwertes Leben\" (life unworthy of life) in reference to the disabled and mentally ill. On 14 July 1933, the Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring (\"Gesetz zur Verhütung erbkranken Nachwuchses\"), the Sterilization Law, was passed, allowing for compulsory sterilization. The \"New York Times\" reported on 21 December that year: \"400,000 Germans to be sterilized\". There were 84,525 applications from doctors in the first year. The courts reached a decision in 64,499 of those cases; 56,244 were in favor of sterilization. Estimates for the number of involuntary sterilizations during the whole of the Third Reich range from 300,000 to 400,000.\n\nIn October 1939 Hitler signed a \"euthanasia decree\" backdated to 1 September 1939 that authorized \"Reichsleiter\" Philipp Bouhler, the chief of Hitler's Chancellery, and Karl Brandt, Hitler's personal physician, to carry out a program of involuntary \"euthanasia\"; after the war this program was named \"Aktion T4\". It was named after Tiergartenstraße 4, the address of a villa in the Berlin borough of Tiergarten, where the various organizations involved were headquartered. T4 was mainly directed at adults, but the \"euthanasia\" of children was also carried out. Between 1939 and 1941, 80,000 to 100,000 mentally ill adults in institutions were killed, as were 5,000 children and 1,000 Jews, also in institutions. In addition there were specialized killing centres, where the deaths were estimated at 20,000, according to Georg Renno, the deputy director of Schloss Hartheim, one of the \"euthanasia\" centers, or 400,000, according to Frank Zeireis, the commandant of the Mauthausen concentration camp. Overall, the number of mentally and physically handicapped murdered was about 150,000.\n\nAlthough not ordered to take part, psychiatrists and many psychiatric institutions were involved in the planning and carrying out of \"Aktion T4\" at every stage. After protests from the German Catholic and Protestant churches, Hitler ordered the cancellation of the T4 program in August 1941, although the disabled and mentally ill continued to be killed until the end of the war. The medical community regularly received bodies and body parts for research. Eberhard Karl University received 1,077 bodies from executions between 1933 and 1945. The neuroscientist Julius Hallervorden received 697 brains from one hospital between 1940 and 1944: \"I accepted these brains of course. Where they came from and how they came to me was really none of my business.\"\n\nOn 15 September 1935, the Reichstag passed the Reich Citizenship Law and the Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honor, known as the Nuremberg Laws. The former said that only those of \"German or kindred blood\" could be citizens. Anyone with three or more Jewish grandparents was classified as a Jew. The second law said: \"Marriages between Jews and subjects of the state of German or related blood are forbidden.\" Sexual relationships between them were also criminalized; Jews were not allowed to employ German women under the age of 45 in their homes. The laws referred to Jews but applied equally to the Roma and black Germans.\n\nNazi racial policy aimed at forcing Jews to emigrate. Fifty thousand German Jews had left Germany by the end of 1934, and by the end of 1938, approximately half the German Jewish population had left the country. Among the prominent Jews who left was the conductor Bruno Walter, who fled after being told that the hall of the Berlin Philharmonic would be burned down if he conducted a concert there. Albert Einstein, who was abroad when Hitler came to power, never returned to Germany. He was expelled from the Kaiser Wilhelm Society and the Prussian Academy of Sciences, and his citizenship was revoked. Other Jewish scientists, including Gustav Hertz, lost their teaching positions and left the country. In March 1938 Germany annexed Austria. Austrian Nazis broke into Jewish shops, stole from Jewish homes and businesses, and forced Jews to perform humiliating acts such as scrubbing the streets or cleaning toilets. Jewish businesses were \"Aryanized\", and all the legal restrictions on Jews in Germany were imposed. In August, Adolf Eichmann was put in charge of the Central Agency for Jewish Emigration. About 100,000 Austrian Jews had left the country by May 1939, including Sigmund Freud and his family.\n\nThe Évian Conference was held in July 1938 by 32 countries as an attempt to help the increased refugees from Germany, but aside from establishing the largely ineffectual Intergovernmental Committee on Refugees, little was accomplished and most countries participating did not increase the number of refugees they would accept.\n\nOn 7 November 1938, Herschel Grynszpan, a Polish Jew, shot the German diplomat Ernst vom Rath in the German Embassy in Paris, in retaliation for the expulsion of his parents and siblings from Germany. When vom Rath died on 9 November, the government used his death as a pretext to instigate a pogrom against the Jews throughout the Third Reich. The government claimed it was spontaneous, but in fact it had been ordered and planned by Hitler and Goebbels, although with no clear goals, according to David Cesarani; the result, he writes, was \"murder, rape, looting, destruction of property, and terror on an unprecedented scale\".\n\nKnown as \"Kristallnacht\" (or \"Night of Broken Glass\"), the attacks were partly carried out by the SS and SA, but ordinary Germans joined in; in some areas the violence began before the SS or SA arrived. Over 7,500 Jewish shops (out of 9,000) were looted and attacked, and over 1,000 synagogues damaged or destroyed. Groups of Jews were forced by the crowd to watch their synagogues burn; in Bensheim they were forced to dance around it and in Laupheim to kneel before it. At least 90 Jews died. The damage was estimated at 39 million Reichmarks. Cesarani writes that \"[t]he extent of the desolation stunned the population and rocked the regime.\" Thirty-thousand Jews were sent to the Dachau, Buchenwald and Sachsenhausen concentration camps. Many were released within weeks; by early 1939, 2,000 remained in the camps. German Jewry was held collectively responsible for restitution of the damage; they also had to pay an \"atonement tax\" of over a billion Reichmarks. Insurance payments for damage to their property were confiscated by the government. A decree on 12 November 1938 barred Jews from most of the remaining occupations they had been allowed to hold. \"Kristallnacht\" marked the end of any sort of public Jewish activity and culture, and Jews stepped up their efforts to leave the country.\n\nBefore World War II, Germany considered mass deportation from Europe of German, and later European, Jewry. Among the areas considered for possible resettlement were British Palestine and French Madagascar. After the war began, German leaders considered deporting Europe's Jews to Siberia. Palestine was the only location to which any German relocation plan produced results, via the Haavara Agreement between the Zionist Federation of Germany and the German government. This resulted in the transfer of about 60,000 German Jews and $100million from Germany to Palestine, but it ended with the outbreak of World War II. In May 1940 Madagascar became the focus of new deportation efforts because it had unfavorable living conditions that would hasten deaths. Several German leaders had discussed the idea in 1938, and Adolf Eichmann's office was ordered to carry out resettlement planning, but no evidence of planning exists until after the fall of France in June 1940. But the inability to defeat Britain prevented the movement of Jews across the seas, and the end of the Madagascar Plan was announced on 10 February 1942.\n\nWhen Germany invaded Poland in September 1939, it gained control of about 2 million Jews in the occupied territory. The rest of Poland was occupied by the Soviet Union, which had control of the rest of Poland's pre-war population of 3.3–3.5 million Jews. German plans for Poland included expelling gentile Poles from large areas, confining Jews, and settling Germans on the emptied lands. To help the process along, Reinhard Heydrich, head of the Reich Security Main Office, ordered that the \"leadership class\" in Poland be killed and the Jews expelled from the Polish areas annexed by Nazi Germany.\n\nThe Germans initiated a policy of sending Jews from all territories they had recently annexed (Austria, Czechoslovakia, and western Poland) to the central section of Poland, which they called the General Government. There the Jews were concentrated in ghettos in major cities, chosen for their railway lines to facilitate later deportation. Food supplies were restricted, public hygiene was difficult, and the inhabitants were often subjected to forced labour. In the labour camps and ghettos at least half a million Jews died of starvation, disease, and poor living conditions. Jeremy Black writes that the ghettos were not intended, in 1939, as a step towards the extermination of the Jews. Instead, they were viewed as part of a policy of creating a territorial reservation to contain them.\n\nGermany invaded Norway in April 1940. The country was completely occupied by June. There were about 1,800 Jews in Norway, persecuted by the Norwegian Nazis. In late 1940, the Jews were banned from some occupations, and in 1941 all Jews had to register their property with the government. Also in 1940, Germany invaded Denmark. The country was overrun so quickly that there was no chance of organizing resistance. Consequently, the Danish government stayed in power and the Germans found it easier to work through it. Because of this, few measures were taken against the Danish Jews before 1942.\n\nThe Germans invaded the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium, and France in May 1940. In the Netherlands, the Germans installed Arthur Seyss-Inquart as \"Reichskommissar\", who quickly began to persecute the approximately 140,000 Dutch Jews. Jews were forced out of their jobs and had to register with the government. Non-Jewish Dutch citizens protested these measures and in February 1941 staged a strike that was quickly crushed. After Belgium's surrender at the end of May 1940, it was ruled by a German military governor, Alexander von Falkenhausen, who enacted anti-Jewish measures against the approximately 90,000 Jews in Belgium, many of whom were refugees from Germany or Eastern Europe. France had approximately 300,000 Jews, divided between the German-occupied northern part of France, and the unoccupied collaborationist southern areas under the Vichy regime. The occupied regions were under the control of a military governor, and there, anti-Jewish measures were not enacted as quickly as they were in the Vichy-controlled areas. In July 1940, the Jews in the parts of Alsace-Lorraine that had been annexed to Germany were expelled into Vichy France.\n\nYugoslavia and Greece were invaded in April 1941, and both countries surrendered before the end of the month. Germany and Italy divided Greece into occupation zones but did not eliminate it as a country. Yugoslavia was dismembered, with regions in the north being annexed by Germany, and regions along the coast made part of Italy. The rest of the country was divided into a puppet state of Croatia, which was nominally an ally of Germany, and Serbia, which was governed by a combination of military and police administrators. There were approximately 80,000 Jews in Yugoslavia when it was invaded. The ruling party in Croatia, the Ustashe, not only killed Jews but murdered and expelled Orthodox Christian Serbs and Muslims. One difference between the Germans and the Croatians was the fact that the Ustashe allowed its Jewish and Serbian victims to convert to Catholicism so they could escape death. Serbia was declared free of Jews in August 1942.\n\nItaly introduced some antisemitic measures, but there was less antisemitism there than in Germany, and Italian-occupied countries were generally safer for Jews than German-occupied territories. In some areas, the Italian authorities even tried to protect Jews, such as in the Croatian areas of the Balkans. But while Italian forces in Russia were not as vicious towards Jews as the Germans, they did not try to stop German atrocities either. There were no deportations of Italian Jews to Germany while Italy remained an ally. Several forced labor camps for Jews were established in Italian-controlled Libya. Almost 2,600 Libyan Jews were sent to camps, where 562 died.\n\nVichy France's government implemented anti-Jewish measures in French Algeria and the two French Protectorates of Tunisia and Morocco. Tunisia had 85,000 Jews when the Germans and Italians arrived in November 1942. An estimated 5,000 Jews were subjected to forced labor. Finland was pressured in 1942 to hand over its 150–200 non-Finnish Jews to Germany. After opposition from the government and public, eight non-Finnish Jews were deported in late 1942; only one survived the war. Japan had little antisemitism in its society and did not persecute Jews in most of the territories it controlled. Jews in Shanghai were confined, but despite German pressure they were not killed.\n\nRomania implemented anti-Jewish measures in May and June 1940 as part of its efforts towards an alliance with Germany. Jews were forced from government service, pogroms were carried out, and by March 1941 all Jews had lost their jobs and had their property confiscated. After Romania joined the invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941, at least 13,266 Jews were killed in the Iași pogrom, and Romanian troops carried out massacres in Romanian-controlled territory, including the Odessa massacre of 20,000 Jews in Odessa in late 1941. Romania also set up concentration camps under its control in Transnistria, where 154,000–170,000 Jews were deported from 1941 to 1943.\n\nAnti-Jewish measures were introduced in Slovakia, which would later deport its Jews to German concentration and extermination camps. Bulgaria introduced anti-Jewish measures in 1940 and 1941, including the requirement to wear a yellow star, the banning of mixed marriages, and the loss of property. Bulgaria annexed Thrace and Macedonia, and in February 1943 agreed to deport 20,000 Jews to Treblinka. All 11,000 Jews from the annexed territories were sent to their deaths, and plans were made to deport additional 6,000–8,000 Bulgarian Jews from Sofia to meet the quota. When the plans became public, the Orthodox Church and many Bulgarians protested, and King Boris III canceled the deportation of Jews native to Bulgaria. Instead, they were expelled to the interior, pending further decision. Although Hungary expelled Jews who were not citizens from its newly annexed lands in 1941, it did not deport most of its Jews until the German invasion of Hungary in March 1944. Between 15 May and 9 July 1944, 440,000 Hungarian Jews were deported to Auschwitz. In Budapest, nearly 80,000 Jews were killed by the Hungarian Arrow Cross battalions in late 1944.\n\nThe Third Reich first used concentration camps as places of unlawful incarceration of political opponents and other \"enemies of the state\". Large numbers of Jews were not sent there until after \"Kristallnacht\" in November 1938. Although death rates were high, the camps were not designed as killing centers. After war broke out in 1939, new camps were established, some outside Germany in occupied Europe. In January 1945, the SS reports had over 700,000 prisoners in their control, of which close to half had died by the end of May 1945 according to most historians. Most wartime prisoners of the camps were not Germans but belonged to countries under German occupation. It is estimated that the Germans established over 42,000 detention sites throughout Europe, including ghettos, concentration camps, prisoner-of-war camps, labour camps, and extermination camps.\n\nAfter 1942, the economic functions of the camps, previously secondary to their penal and terror functions, came to the fore. Forced labour of camp prisoners became commonplace and companies utilized their cheap labour. The guards became much more brutal, and the death rate increased as the guards not only beat and starved prisoners, but killed them more frequently. Extermination through labour was a policy—camp inmates would literally be worked to death, or to physical exhaustion, at which point they would be gassed or shot. The Germans estimated the average prisoner's lifespan in a concentration camp at three months, due to lack of food and clothing, constant epidemics, and frequent punishments for the most minor transgressions. The shifts were long and often involved exposure to dangerous materials.\n\nPrisoner transportation between camps was often carried out in freight cars with the prisoners packed very tightly. Long delays would take place, with the prisoners confined in the cars on sidings for days. In mid-1942 labor camps began requiring newly arrived prisoners to be placed in quarantine for four weeks. Some camps tattooed prisoners with an identification number on arrival, but not all did. Prisoners wore colored triangles on their uniforms, with the color of the triangle denoting the reason for their incarceration. Red signified a political prisoner, Jehovah's Witnesses had purple triangles, \"asocials\" and criminals wore black or green. Badges were pink for gay men and yellow for Jews. Jews had a second yellow triangle that was worn with their original triangle, with the two forming a six-pointed star.\n\nAfter invading Poland, the Germans established ghettos in the incorporated territories and General Government to confine Jews. The ghettos were formed and closed off from the outside world at different times and for different reasons. For example, the Łódź ghetto was closed in April 1940, to force the Jews inside to give up money and valuables; the Warsaw ghetto was closed for health considerations (for the people outside, not inside, the ghetto), but this did not happen until November 1940; and the Kraków ghetto was not established until March 1941. The Warsaw Ghetto contained 380,000 people and was the largest ghetto in Poland; the Łódź Ghetto was the second largest, holding between 160,000 to 223,000. Because of the long drawn-out process of establishing ghettos, it is unlikely that they were originally considered part of a systematic attempt to eliminate Jews completely.\n\nThe Germans required each ghetto to be run by a \"Judenrat\", or Jewish council. Councils were responsible for a ghetto's day-to-day operations, including distributing food, water, heat, medical care, and shelter. The Germans also required councils to confiscate property, organize forced labor, and, finally, facilitate deportations to extermination camps. The councils' basic strategy was one of trying to minimize losses, by cooperating with German authorities, bribing officials, and petitioning for better conditions or clemency.\nEventually, the Germans ordered the councils to compile lists of names of deportees to be sent for \"resettlement\". Although most ghetto councils complied with these orders, many councils tried to send the least useful workers or those unable to work. Leaders who refused these orders were shot. Some individuals or even complete councils committed suicide rather than cooperate with the deportations. Others, like Chaim Rumkowski, who became the \"dedicated autocrat\" of Łódź, argued that their responsibility was to save the Jews who could be saved and that therefore others had to be sacrificed. The councils' actions in facilitating Germany's persecution and murder of ghetto inhabitants was important to the Germans. When cooperation crumbled, as happened in the Warsaw ghetto after the Jewish Combat Organisation displaced the council's authority, the Germans lost control.\n\nGhettos were intended to be temporary until the Jews were deported to other locations, which never happened. Instead, the inhabitants were sent to extermination camps. The ghettos were, in effect, immensely crowded prisons serving as instruments of \"slow, passive murder.\" Though the Warsaw Ghetto contained 30% of Warsaw's population, it occupied only 2.5% of the city's area, averaging over 9 people per room. Between 1940 and 1942, starvation and disease, especially typhoid, killed many in the ghettos. Over 43,000 Warsaw ghetto residents, or one in ten of the total population, died in 1941; in Theresienstadt, more than half the residents died in 1942.\n\nHimmler ordered the closing of ghettos in Poland in mid-July 1942, with most inhabitants going to extermination camps. Those Jews needed for war production would be confined at concentration camps. The deportations from the Warsaw Ghetto began on 22 July; over the almost two months of the \"Aktion\", until 12 September, the Warsaw ghetto went from approximately 350,000 inhabitants to about 65,000. Those deported were transported in freight trains to the Treblinka extermination camp. Similar deportations happened in other ghettos, with many ghettos totally emptied.\nThe first ghetto uprisings occurred in mid-1942 in small community ghettos. Although there were armed resistance attempts in both the larger and smaller ghettos in 1943, in every case they failed against the overwhelming German military force, and the remaining Jews were either killed or deported to the death camps.\n\nA number of deadly pogroms occurred during the Holocaust. The Germans encouraged some, and others were spontaneous. Some, such as the Iaşi pogrom, were in lands controlled by Germany's allies. In the series of Lviv pogroms committed in occupied Poland, some 6,000 Polish Jews were murdered in the streets in July 1941, on top of 3,000 arrests and mass shootings by \"Einsatzgruppe C\". During the Jedwabne pogrom of July 1941, in the presence of the German officers, several hundred Jews were murdered by some local Poles, with some being burned alive in a barn.\n\nGermany invaded the Soviet Union in June 1941. German propaganda portrayed the war against the Soviet Union as both an ideological war between German National Socialism and Jewish Bolshevism and a racial war between the Germans and the Jewish, Romani and Slavic \"Untermenschen\" (\"sub-humans\").\n\nLocal populations in some occupied Soviet territories actively participated in the killings of Jews and others. Besides participating in killings and pogroms, they helped identify Jews for persecution and rounded up Jews for German actions. German involvement ranged from active instigation and involvement to more generalized guidance. In Lithuania, Latvia, and western Ukraine locals were deeply involved in the murder of Jews from the beginning of the German occupation. Some of these Latvian and Lithuanian units also participated in the murder of Jews in Belarus. In the south, Ukrainians killed about 24,000 Jews and some went to Poland to serve as concentration and death-camp guards. Military units from some countries allied to Germany also killed Jews. Romanian units were given orders to exterminate and wipe out Jews in areas they controlled. Ustaše militia in Croatia persecuted and murdered Jews, among others. Many of the killings were carried out in public, a change from previous practice.\n\nThe mass killings of Jews in the occupied Soviet territories were assigned to four SS formations called \"Einsatzgruppen\" (\"task groups\"), which were under Heydrich's overall command. Similar formations had been used to a limited extent in Poland in 1939, but the ones operating in the Soviet territories were much larger. The \"Einsatzgruppen\" commanders were ordinary citizens: the great majority were professionals and most were intellectuals. By the winter of 1941–1942, the four \"Einsatzgruppen\" and their helpers had killed almost 500,000 people.\nThe largest massacre of Jews by the mobile killing squads in the Soviet Union was at a ravine called Babi Yar outside Kiev, where 33,771 Jews were killed in a single operation on 29–30 September 1941. A mixture of SS and Security Police, assisted by Ukrainian police, carried out the killings. Although they did not actively participate in the killings, men of the German 6th Army helped round up the Jews of Kiev and transport them to be shot. By the end of the war, around two million are thought to have been victims of the \"Einsatzgruppen\" and their helpers in the local population and the German Army. Of those, about 1.3 million were Jews and up to a quarter of a million Roma.\n\nAs the mass shootings continued in Russia, the Germans began to search for new methods of mass murder. This was driven by a need to have a more efficient method than simply shooting millions of victims. Himmler also feared that the mass shootings were causing psychological problems in the SS. His concerns were shared by his subordinates in the field. In December 1939 and January 1940, another method besides shooting was tried. Experimental gas vans equipped with gas cylinders and a sealed compartment were used to kill the disabled and mentally-ill in occupied Poland. Similar vans, but using the exhaust fumes rather than bottled gas, were introduced to the Chełmno extermination camp in December 1941, and some were used in the occupied Soviet Union, for example in smaller clearing actions in the Minsk ghetto. They also were used for murder in Yugoslavia.\n\nSS-\"Obergruppenführer\" Reinhard Heydrich, head of the Reich Main Security Office (\"Reichssicherheitshauptamt\" or RSHA), convened what became known as the Wannsee Conference on 20 January 1942 at a villa, am Grossen Wannsee No. 56/58, in Berlin's Wannsee suburb. The meeting had been scheduled for 9 December 1941, and invitations had been sent on 29 November, but it had been postponed. Christian Gerlach argues that Hitler announced his decision to annihilate the Jews on or around 12 December 1941, probably on 12 December during a speech to Nazi Party leaders. This was one day after he declared war on the United States and five days after the attack on Pearl Harbour by Japan. Joseph Goebbels, the Reich Minister of Propaganda, noted of Hitler's speech: \"He warned the Jews that if they were to cause another world war, it would lead to their destruction. ... Now the world war has come. The destruction of the Jews must be its necessary consequence.\"\n\nThe 15 men present at Wannsee included Adolf Eichmann (head of Jewish affairs for the RSHA and the man who organized the deportation of Jews), Heinrich Müller (head of the Gestapo), and other party leaders and department heads. Thirty copies of the minutes were made. Copy no. 16 was found by American prosecutors in March 1947 in a German Foreign Office folder. Written by Eichmann and stamped \"Top Secret\", the minutes were written in \"euphemistic language\" on Heydrich's instructions, according to Eichmann's later testimony. The conference had several purposes. Discussing plans for a \"final solution to the Jewish question\" (\"Endlösung der Judenfrage\"), and a \"final solution to the Jewish question in Europe\" (\"\"Endlösung der europäischen Judenfrage\"), it was intended to share information and responsibility, coordinate efforts and policies (\"Parallelisierung der Linienführung\"\"), and ensure that authority rested with Heydrich. There was also discussion about whether to include the German \"Mischlinge\" (half-Jews). Heydrich told the meeting: \"Another possible solution of the problem has now taken the place of emigration, i.e. the evacuation of the Jews to the East, provided that the Fuehrer gives the appropriate approval in advance.\" He continued:\n\nUnder proper guidance, in the course of the final solution the Jews are to be allocated for appropriate labor in the East. Able-bodied Jews, separated according to sex, will be taken in large work columns to these areas for work on roads, in the course of which action doubtless a large portion will be eliminated by natural causes. The possible final remnant will, since it will undoubtedly consist of the most resistant portion, have to be treated accordingly because it is the product of natural selection and would, if released, act as the seed of a new Jewish revival (see the experience of history.) In the course of the practical execution of the final solution, Europe will be combed through from west to east. Germany proper, including the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, will have to be handled first due to the housing problem and additional social and political necessities. The evacuated Jews will first be sent, group by group, to so-called transit ghettos, from which they will be transported to the East.\n\nThese evacuations were regarded as provisional or \"temporary solutions\" (\"Ausweichmöglichkeiten\"). The final solution would encompass the 11million Jews living not only in territories controlled by Germany, but elsewhere in Europe and adjacent territories, such as Britain, Ireland, Switzerland, Turkey, Sweden, Portugal, Spain, and Hungary, \"dependent on military developments\". There was little doubt what the final solution was, writes Peter Longerich: \"the Jews were to be annihilated by a combination of forced labour and mass murder\".\n\nKilling on a mass scale using gas chambers or gas vans was the main difference between the extermination and concentration camps. From the end of 1941, the Germans built six extermination camps in occupied Poland: Auschwitz II-Birkenau, Majdanek, Chełmno, and the three Operation Reinhard camps at Belzec, Sobibor, and Treblinka II. Maly Trostenets, a concentration camp in the Reichskommissariat Ostland, became a killing centre in 1942. Gerlach writes that over three million Jews were murdered in 1942, the year that \"marked the peak\" of the mass murder of Jews. At least 1.4 million of these were in the General Government area of Poland.\n\nUsing gas vans, Chełmno had its roots in the Aktion T4 euthanasia program. Majdanek began as a POW camp, but in August 1942 it had gas chambers installed. A few other camps are occasionally named as extermination camps, but there is no scholarly agreement on the additional camps; commonly mentioned are Mauthausen in Austria and Stutthof. There may also have been plans for camps at Mogilev and Lvov.\nVictims usually arrived at the camps by train. Almost all arrivals at the Operation Reinhard camps of Treblinka, Sobibór, and Bełżec were sent directly to the gas chambers, with individuals occasionally selected to replace dead workers. At Auschwitz, the camp officials usually subjected individuals to selections. About 25% of the new arrivals deemed fit to work were sent to slave labour. Those selected for death at all camps were told to undress and hand their valuables to camp workers. They were then herded naked into the gas chambers. To prevent panic, they were told the gas chambers were showers or delousing chambers. The procedure at Chełmno was slightly different. Victims there were placed in a mobile gas van and asphyxiated, while being driven to prepared burial pits in the nearby forests. There the corpses were unloaded and buried.\nAt Auschwitz, after the chambers were filled, the doors were shut and pellets of Zyklon-B were dropped into the chambers through vents, releasing toxic prussic acid, or hydrogen cyanide. Those inside died within 20 minutes; the speed of death depended on how close the inmate was standing to a gas vent, according to the commandant Rudolf Höss, who estimated that about one-third of the victims died immediately. Johann Kremer, an SS doctor who oversaw the gassings, testified that: \"Shouting and screaming of the victims could be heard through the opening and it was clear that they fought for their lives.\" The gas was then pumped out, the bodies were removed, gold fillings in their teeth were extracted, and women's hair was cut. The work was done by the \"Sonderkommando,\" work groups of mostly Jewish prisoners. At Auschwitz, the bodies were at first buried in deep pits and covered with lime, but between September and November 1942, on the orders of Himmler, they were dug up and burned. In early 1943, new gas chambers and crematoria were built to accommodate the numbers.\n\nAt the three Reinhard camps the victims were killed by the exhaust fumes of stationary diesel engines. Gold fillings were pulled from the corpses before burial, but the women's hair was cut before death. At Treblinka, to calm the victims, the arrival platform was made to look like a train station, complete with fake clock. Majdanek used Zyklon-B gas in its gas chambers. In contrast to Auschwitz, the three Reinhard camps were quite small. Most of the victims at these camps were buried in pits at first. Sobibór and Bełżec began exhuming and burning bodies in late 1942, to hide the evidence, as did Treblinka in March 1943. The bodies were burned in open fireplaces and the remaining bones crushed into powder.\n\nPeter Longerich observes that in ghettos in Poland by the end of 1942, \"there was practically no resistance\". Raul Hilberg accounts for this compliant attitude by evoking the history of Jewish persecution: as had been the case before, appealing to their oppressors and complying with orders might avoid inflaming the situation until the onslaught abated. Timothy Snyder notes that it was only during the three months after the deportations of July–September 1942 that agreement on the need for armed resistance was reached.\nSeveral groups were formed, such as the Jewish Fighting Organization in the Warsaw Ghetto and the United Partisan Organization in Vilna. Over 100 revolts and uprisings occurred in at least 19 ghettos and elsewhere in Eastern Europe. The best known is the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising of 1943, when around 1,000 poorly armed Jewish fighters held the SS at bay for four weeks. During a revolt in Treblinka on 2 August 1943, inmates killed five or six guards and set fire to camp buildings; several managed to escape.\n\nIn the Białystok Ghetto on 16 August 1943, Jewish insurgents revolted when the Germans announced mass deportations. The fighting lasted five days. On 14 October 1943, Jews in Sobibór, including Jewish-Soviet prisoners of war, attempted an escape, killing 11 SS officers and a couple of Ukrainian camp guards. Around 300 prisoners escaped, but 100 were recaptured and shot. In October 1944, Jewish members of the \"Sonderkommando\" at Auschwitz attacked their guards and blew up Crematorium IV with explosives that had been smuggled in. Three German guards were killed, one of whom was stuffed into an oven. The \"Sonderkommando\" attempted a mass breakout, but all were killed.\n\nEstimates of Jewish participation in partisan units throughout Europe range from 20,000 to 100,000. In the occupied Polish and Soviet territories, thousands of Jews fled into the swamps or forests and joined the partisans, although the partisan movements did not always welcome them. An estimated 20,000 to 30,000 joined the Soviet partisan movement. One of the famous Jewish groups was the Bielski partisans in Belarus, led by the Bielski brothers. Jews also joined Polish forces, including the Home Army. According to Timothy Snyder, \"more Jews fought in the Warsaw Uprising of August 1944 than in the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising of April 1943\".\n\nThe Polish government-in-exile in London learned about the extermination camps from the Polish leadership in Warsaw, who from 1940 \"received a continual flow of information about Auschwitz\", according to historian Michael Fleming. On 6 January 1942, the Soviet Minister of Foreign Affairs, Vyacheslav Molotov, sent out diplomatic notes about German atrocities. The notes were based on reports about bodies surfacing from poorly covered graves in pits and quarries, as well as mass graves found in areas the Red Army had liberated, and on witness reports from German-occupied areas.\n\nEscapes from the camps were few, but not unknown. In February 1942, Szlama Ber Winer escaped from the Chełmno concentration camp in Poland, and passed detailed information about it to the Oneg Shabbat group in the Warsaw Ghetto. His report, known by his pseudonym as the Grojanowski Report, had reached London by June 1942. Also in 1942, Jan Karski reported to the Allies on the plight of Jews after being smuggled into the Warsaw Ghetto twice. On 27 April 1942, Vyacheslav Molotov sent out another note about atrocities. In late July or early August 1942, Polish leaders learned about the mass killings taking place inside Auschwitz. The Polish Interior Ministry prepared a report, \"Sprawozdanie 6/42\", which said at the end:\n\nThere are different methods of execution. People are shot by firing squads, killed by an \"air hammer\", and poisoned by gas in special gas chambers. Prisoners condemned to death by the Gestapo are murdered by the first two methods. The third method, the gas chamber, is employed for those who are ill or incapable of work and those who have been brought in transports especially for the purpose/Soviet prisoners of war, and, recently Jews.\nThe report was sent to Polish officials in London by courier and had reached them by 12 November 1942, when it was translated into English and added to another report, \"Report on Conditions in Poland\". Dated 27 November, this was forwarded to the Polish Embassy in the United States. On 10 December 1942, the Polish Foreign Affairs Minister, Edward Raczyński, addressed the fledgling United Nations on the killings; the address was distributed with the title \"The Mass Extermination of Jews in German Occupied Poland\". He told them about the use of poison gas; about Treblinka, Bełżec and Sobibor; that the Polish underground had referred to them as extermination camps; and that tens of thousands of Jews had been killed in Bełżec in March and April 1942. One in three Jews in Poland were already dead, he estimated, from a population of 3,130,000. Raczyński's address was covered by the \"New York Times\" and \"The Times\" of London. Winston Churchill received it, and Anthony Eden presented it to the British cabinet. On 17 December 1942, 11 Allies issued the Joint Declaration by Members of the United Nations condemning the \"bestial policy of cold-blooded extermination\".\n\nThe British and American governments were reluctant to publicize the intelligence they had received. Although the information was felt to be correct, the stories were so extreme that they feared the public would discount them as exaggerations and that the credibility of both governments would be undermined. A BBC Hungarian Service memo, written by Carlile Macartney, a BBC broadcaster and senior Foreign Office adviser on Hungary, stated in 1942: \"We shouldn't mention the Jews at all.\" The British government's view was that the Hungarian people's antisemitism would make them distrust the Allies if Allied broadcasts focused on the Jews. The US government also hesitated to emphasize the atrocities for fear of turning the war into a war about the Jews. Antisemitism and isolationism were common in the US before its entry into the war, and the government wanted to avoid too great a focus on Jewish suffering to keep isolationism from gaining ground.\n\nMost of the Jewish ghettos of General Government were liquidated in 1942–1943, and their populations shipped to the camps for extermination. About 42,000 Jews were shot during the Operation Harvest Festival on 3–4 November 1943. At the same time, rail shipments arrived regularly from western and southern Europe at the extermination camps. Few Jews were shipped from the occupied Soviet territories to the camps: the killing of Jews in this zone was mostly left in the hands of the SS, aided by locally recruited auxiliaries.\n\nShipments of Jews to the camps had priority over anything but the army's needs on the German railways, and continued even in the face of the increasingly dire military situation at the end of 1942. Army leaders and economic managers complained about this diversion of resources and the killing of skilled Jewish workers, but Nazi leaders rated ideological imperatives above economic considerations.\n\nBy 1943 it was evident to the armed forces leadership that Germany was losing the war. The mass murder continued nevertheless, reaching a \"frenetic\" pace in 1944. Auschwitz was gassing up to 6,000 Jews a day by spring that year. On 19 March 1944, Hitler ordered the military occupation of Hungary and dispatched Eichmann to Budapest to supervise the deportation of the country's Jews. From 22 March, Jews were required to wear the yellow star; forbidden from owning cars, bicycles, radios or telephones; then forced into ghettos. From 15 May to 9 July, 440,000 Jews were deported from Hungary to Auschwitz-Birkenau, almost all to the gas chambers. A month before the deportations began, Eichmann offered to exchange one million Jews for 10,000 trucks and other goods from the Allies, the so-called \"blood for goods\" proposal. \"The Times\" called it \"a new level of fantasy and self-deception\".\n\nBy mid-1944 those Jewish communities within easy reach of the Nazi regime had been largely exterminated, in proportions ranging from about 25 percent in France to more than 90 percent in Poland. On 5 May Himmler claimed in a speech that \"the Jewish question has in general been solved in Germany and in the countries occupied by Germany\".\n\nAs the Soviet armed forces advanced, the camps in eastern Poland were closed down, with surviving inmates shipped to camps closer to Germany. Efforts were made to conceal evidence of what had happened. The gas chambers were dismantled, the crematoria dynamited, and the mass graves dug up and the corpses cremated. Local commanders continued to kill Jews, and to shuttle them from camp to camp by forced \"death marches\". Already sick after months or years of violence and starvation, some were marched to train stations and transported for days at a time without food or shelter in open freight cars, then forced to march again at the other end to the new camp. Others were marched the entire distance to the new camp. Those who lagged behind or fell were shot. Around 250,000 Jews died during these marches.\n\nThe first major camp to be encountered by Allied troops, Majdanek, was discovered by the advancing Soviets on 25 July 1944. Treblinka, Sobibór, and Bełżec were never liberated, but were destroyed by the Germans in 1943. Auschwitz was liberated, also by the Soviets, on 27 January 1945; Buchenwald by the Americans on 11 April; Bergen-Belsen by the British on 15 April; Dachau by the Americans on 29 April; Ravensbrück by the Soviets on 30 April; and Mauthausen by the Americans on 5 May. The Red Cross took control of Theresienstadt on 4 May, days before the Soviets arrived.\n\nThe Soviets found 7,600 inmates in Auschwitz. Some 60,000 prisoners were discovered at Bergen-Belsen by the British 11th Armoured Division; 13,000 corpses lay unburied, and another 10,000 people died from typhus or malnutrition over the following weeks. The BBC's war correspondent, Richard Dimbleby, described the scenes that greeted him and the British Army at Belsen, in a report so graphic that the BBC declined to broadcast it for four days and did so, on 19 April, only after Dimbleby had threatened to resign:\n\nMost historians define the Holocaust as the German genocide of the European Jews, carried out between 1941 and 1945. Donald Niewyk and Francis Nicosia, writing in \"The Columbia Guide to the Holocaust\" (2000), favour a definition that focuses on the Jews, Roma and handicapped (Aktion T4 victims), because they were targets of Nazi efforts to destroy entire groups based on heredity.\n\nThe broadest definition of the Holocaust would include ethnic Poles, Soviet citizens, Soviet prisoners of war, gay men, and political opponents, and would raise the death toll to 17 million. A research project started in 2000, led by Geoffrey Megargee and Martin Dean for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, estimated in 2013 that 15–20 million people had died or been imprisoned in the sites they have identified to date.\n\nAccording to the Yad Vashem Holocaust Martyrs' and Heroes' Remembrance Authority in Jerusalem, \"[a]ll the serious research\" confirms that between five and six million Jews died. Early postwar calculations were 4.2 to 4.5 million from Gerald Reitlinger; 5.1 million from Raul Hilberg; and 5.95 million from Jacob Lestschinsky. In 1986 Lucy S. Dawidowicz used the pre-war census figures to estimate 5.934 million. Yehuda Bauer and Robert Rozett in the \"Encyclopedia of the Holocaust\" (1990) estimate 5.59–5.86 million. A 1996 study led by Wolfgang Benz suggested 5.29 to 6.2 million, based on comparing pre- and post-war census records and surviving German documentation on deportations and killings. Martin Gilbert arrived at a minimum of 5.75 million. The figures include over one million children.\n\nThe Jews killed represented around one third of the world population of Jews, and about two-thirds of European Jewry, based on an estimate of 9.7 million Jews in Europe at the start of the war. Much of the uncertainty stems from the lack of a reliable figure for the number of Jews in Europe in 1939, numerous border changes that make avoiding double-counting of victims difficult, lack of accurate records from the perpetrators, and uncertainty about whether deaths occurring months after liberation, but caused by the persecution, should be counted.\n\nAlmost all Jews within areas occupied by the Germans were killed. There were 3,020,000 Jews in the Soviet Union in 1939, and the losses were 1–1.1 million. Around one million Jews were killed by the \"Einsatzgruppen\" in the occupied Soviet territories. Of Poland's 3.3 million Jews, about 90 percent were killed. Many more died in the ghettos of Poland before they could be deported. The death camps accounted for half the number of Jews killed; 80–90 percent of death-camp victims are estimated to have been Jews. At Auschwitz-Birkenau the Jewish death toll was 1.1 million; Treblinka 870,000–925,000; Bełżec 434,000–600,000; Chełmno 152,000–320,000; Sobibór 170,000–250,000; and Majdanek 79,000.\n\nBecause the Roma are traditionally a private people with a culture based on oral history, less is known about their experience during the Holocaust than that of any other group. Bauer writes that this can be attributed to the Roma's distrust and suspicion, and to their humiliation because some of the taboos in Romani culture regarding hygiene and sex were violated at Auschwitz.\n\nThe Roma were subject to discrimination under the Nuremberg racial laws. The Germans saw them as hereditary criminals and \"asocials\", and this was reflected in their classification in the concentration camps, where they were usually counted among the asocials and given black triangles to wear. According to Niewyk and Nicosia, at least 130,000 died, out of nearly one million in German-occupied Europe. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum calculates at least 220,000. Ian Hancock, who specializes in Romani history and culture, argues for between 500,000 and 1,500,000. The Roma refer to the genocide as the \"Pořajmos\".\n\nThe treatment of the Roma was not consistent across German-occupied territories, with those in France and the Low Countries subject to restrictions on movement and some confinement to collection camps. Those in Central and Eastern Europe were sent to concentration camps and murdered by soldiers and execution squads. Before being sent to the camps, they were herded into ghettos, including several hundred into the Warsaw Ghetto. Further east, teams of \"Einsatzgruppen\" tracked down Romani encampments and murdered the inhabitants on the spot, leaving no records of the victims. They were also targeted by allies of the Germans, such as the Ustaše regime in Croatia, where a large number were killed in the Jasenovac concentration camp; the total killed in Croatia numbered around 28,000. After the Germans occupied Hungary, 1,000 Roma were deported to Auschwitz.\n\nIn May 1942 the Roma were placed under similar labour and social laws to the Jews. On 16 December 1942 Heinrich Himmler issued a decree that \"Gypsy Mischlinge [mixed breeds], Roma Gypsies, and members of the clans of Balkan origins who are not of German blood\" should be sent to Auschwitz, unless they had served in the \"Wehrmacht\". This was adjusted on 15 November 1943, when Himmler ordered that, in the occupied Soviet areas, \"sedentary Gypsies and part-Gypsies are to be treated as citizens of the country. Nomadic Gypsies and part-Gypsies are to be placed on the same level as Jews and placed in concentration camps.\" Bauer argues that this adjustment reflected Nazi ideology that the Roma, originally an Aryan population, had been \"spoiled\" by non-Romani blood.\n\nThe Nazis considered the Slavs as subhuman, or \"Untermenschen\". In a secret memorandum dated 25 May 1940, Heinrich Himmler stated that it was in German interests to foster divisions between the ethnic groups in the East. He also wanted to restrict non-Germans in the conquered territories to schools that would only teach them how to write their own name, count up to 500, and obey Germans. Himmler's \"Generalplan Ost\" (General Plan East), agreed to by Hitler in the summer of 1942, involved exterminating, expelling, or enslaving all or most Slavs from their lands over a period of 20–30 years to make living space for Germans. In 1992 Rudolph Rummel estimated the number of Slavs murdered by the Germans to be 10,547,000.\n\nGerman planners in November 1939 called for \"the complete destruction\" of all Poles. Poland under German occupation was to be cleared of Poles and settled by German colonists. The Polish political leadership and other leaders were the targets of an organized campaign of murder (Intelligenzaktion and AB-Aktion). But German planners decided against a genocide of ethnic Poles on the same scale as against Jews, at least in the short term, and planned to completely Germanize the Polish territories by removing or allowing to die of mistreatment 80-85% of the Polish population.\n\nBetween 1.8 and 1.9 million non-Jewish Polish citizens perished at German hands during the course of the war, about four-fifths of whom were ethnic Poles with the rest ethnic Ukrainians and Belarusians. At least 200,000 of these victims died in concentration camps with around 146,000 killed in Auschwitz. Many others died as a result of general massacres or uprisings such as the Warsaw Uprising, where between 120,000 and 200,000 civilians were killed.\n\nDuring the occupation, the Germans adopted a policy of restricting food rations and medical services as well as the degradation of sanitation and public hygiene. The death rate rose from a rate of 13 in 1000 before the war to 18 in 1000 during the war. Around 6 million of the victims of World War II were Polish citizens, both Jewish and non-Jewish, and over the course of the war Poland lost 20 percent of its pre-war population. Over 90 percent of the death toll came through non-military losses, through various deliberate actions by Germany and the Soviet Union. Polish children were also kidnapped by Germans in order to be \"Germanized\", with perhaps as many as 200,000 children being stolen from their families for this purpose.\n\nSoviet civilian populations in the occupied areas were also heavily persecuted outside of events taking place in the frontline warfare of the Eastern Front. Villages throughout the Soviet Union were destroyed by German troops. Germans rounded up civilians for forced labour in Germany as well as causing famines by taking foodstuffs.\n\nIn Belarus, Germany imposed a regime that deported some 380,000 people for slave labour and killed hundreds of thousands of civilians. More than 600 villages had their entire populations killed and at least 5,295 Belarusian settlements were destroyed by the Germans. According to Timothy Snyder, of \"the nine million people who were on the territory of Soviet Belarus in 1941, some 1.6 million were killed by the Germans in actions away from battlefields, including about 700,000 prisoners of war, 500,000 Jews, and 320,000 people counted as partisans (the vast majority of whom were unarmed civilians)\". The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum has estimated that 3.3 million of the 5.7 million Soviet POWs died in German custody. The death rates decreased as the POWs were needed to work as slaves to help the German war effort; by 1943, half a million of them had been deployed as slave labour.\n\nGerman communists, socialists and trade unionists were among the earliest opponents of the Nazis, and they were also among the first to be sent to concentration camps. Before the invasion of the Soviet Union, Hitler issued the Commissar Order, which ordered the execution of all political commissars and Communist Party members captured. \"Nacht und Nebel\" (\"Night and Fog\") was a directive of Hitler in December 1941, resulting in the kidnapping and disappearance of political activists throughout the German occupied territories.\n\nAround 50,000 German gay men were jailed between 1933 and 1945, and 5,000–15,000 are estimated to have been sent to concentration camps. It is not known how many homosexuals died during the Holocaust. James Steakley writes that what mattered in Germany was criminal intent or character, rather than acts, and the \"gesundes Volksempfinden\" (\"healthy sensibility of the people\") became the guiding legal principle.\n\nIn 1936 Himmler created the Reich Central Office for the Combating of Homosexuality and Abortion. The Gestapo raided gay bars, tracked individuals using the address books of those they arrested, used the subscription lists of gay magazines to find others, and encouraged people to report suspected homosexual behavior and to scrutinize the behavior of their neighbors. Lesbians were left relatively unaffected; the Nazis saw them as \"asocials\", rather than sexual deviants.\n\nThe men convicted between 1933 and 1944 were sent to camps for \"rehabilitation\", where they were identified by pink triangles. Hundreds were castrated, sometimes \"voluntarily\" to avoid criminal sentences. Steakley writes that the full extent of gay suffering was slow to emerge after the war. Many victims kept their stories to themselves because homosexuality remained criminalized in postwar Germany.\n\nBecause they refused to pledge allegiance to the Nazi party or to serve in the military, Jehovah's Witnesses were sent to concentration camps where they were given the option of renouncing their faith and submitting to the state's authority. They were marked out by purple triangles. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum estimates between 2,700 and 3,300 were sent to concentration camps, but Sybil Milton states the number in the camps was 10,000. Between 1,400 and 2,500 died while in the camps. Historian Detlef Garbe writes that \"no other religious movement resisted the pressure to conform to National Socialism with comparable unanimity and steadfastness.\"\n\nThe number of Afro-Germans in Germany when the Nazis came to power is variously estimated at 5,000–25,000. It is not clear whether these figures included Asians. Although blacks, including prisoners of war, in Germany and German-occupied Europe were subjected to incarceration, sterilization, murder, and other abuse, there was no programme to kill them all as there was for the Jews.\n\nIn his 1965 essay \"Command and Compliance\", which originated in his work as an expert witness for the prosecution at the Frankfurt Auschwitz Trials, the German historian Hans Buchheim wrote there was no coercion to murder Jews and others, and all who committed such actions did so out of free will. Buchheim wrote that chances to avoid executing criminal orders \"were both more numerous and more real than those concerned are generally prepared to admit\", and that he found no evidence that SS men who refused to carry out criminal orders were sent to concentration camps or executed. Moreover, SS rules prohibited acts of gratuitous sadism, as Himmler wished for his men to remain \"decent\"; acts of sadism were carried out on the initiative of those who were either especially cruel or wished to prove themselves ardent National Socialists. Finally, he argued that those of a non-criminal bent who committed crimes did so because they wished to conform to the values of the group they had joined and were afraid of being branded \"weak\" by their colleagues if they refused.\n\nSimilarly, in \"Ordinary Men\" (1992), Christopher Browning examined the deeds of German Reserve Police Battalion 101 of the \"Ordnungspolizei\" (\"order police\"), used to commit massacres and round-ups of Jews, as well as mass deportations to the death camps. The members of the battalion were middle-aged men of working-class background from Hamburg, who were too old for regular military duty. They were given no special training. During the murder of 1,500 Jews from Józefów, their commander allowed them to opt out of direct participation. Fewer than 12 men out of a battalion of 500 did so. Influenced by the Milgram experiment on obedience, Browning argued that the men killed out of peer pressure, not bloodlust.\n\nIn his 1983 book, \"Popular Opinion and Political Dissent in the Third Reich\", Ian Kershaw examined the \"Alltagsgeschichte\" (history of everyday life) in Bavaria during the Nazi period. The most common viewpoint of Bavarians was indifference towards what was happening to the Jews, he wrote. Most Bavarians were vaguely aware of the genocide, but they were vastly more concerned about the war. Kershaw argued that \"the road to Auschwitz was built by hate, but paved with indifference\".\n\nKershaw's assessment faced criticism from historians Otto Dov Kulka and Michael Kater. Kater maintained that Kershaw had downplayed the extent of popular antisemitism. Although most of the \"spontaneous\" antisemitic actions of Nazi Germany had been staged, Kater argued that these had involved substantial numbers of Germans, and therefore it was wrong to view the extreme antisemitism of the Nazis as coming solely from above. Kulka argued that \"passive complicity\" would be a better term than \"indifference\".\n\nFocusing on the views of Germans opposed to the Nazi regime, the German historian Christof Dipper, in his essay \"Der Deutsche Widerstand und die Juden\" (1983), argued that the majority of the anti-Nazi national-conservatives were antisemitic. No one in the German resistance supported the Holocaust, but Dipper wrote that the national conservatives did not intend to restore civil rights to the Jews after the planned overthrow of Hitler.\n\nThe Nuremberg trials were a series of military tribunals, held by the Allied forces after World War II in Nuremberg, Germany, to prosecute prominent members of the political, military, and economic leadership of Nazi Germany. The first of these trials was the 1945–1946 trial of the major war criminals before the International Military Tribunal (IMT). This tribunal tried 22 political and military leaders of the Third Reich, except for Adolf Hitler, Heinrich Himmler, and Joseph Goebbels, all of whom had committed suicide several months before.\n\nThe prosecution entered indictments against 24 major war criminals and seven organizations—the leadership of the Nazi party, the Reich Cabinet, the Schutzstaffel (SS), Sicherheitsdienst (SD), the Gestapo, the Sturmabteilung (SA) and the \"General Staff and High Command\". The indictments were for: participation in a common plan or conspiracy for the accomplishment of a crime against peace; planning, initiating and waging wars of aggression and other crimes against peace; war crimes; and crimes against humanity. The tribunal passed judgements ranging from acquittal to death by hanging. Eleven defendants were executed, including Joachim von Ribbentrop, Wilhelm Keitel, Alfred Rosenberg, and Alfred Jodl. Ribbentrop, the judgement declared, \"played an important part in Hitler's 'final solution of the Jewish question'\".\n\nFurther trials at Nuremberg took place between 1946 and 1949, which tried a further 185 defendants. West Germany initially tried few ex-Nazis, but after the 1958 \"Einsatzgruppen\" trial, the government set up a governmental agency to investigate crimes. Other trials of Nazis and collaborators took place in Western and Eastern Europe414-428}} In 1960, Israeli Mossad agents kidnapped Adolf Eichmann in Argentina and brought him to Israel to stand trial for war crimes. The trial ended in his conviction in December 1961, and his execution in May 1962. Eichmann's trial and death revived interest in war criminals and the Holocaust in general.\n\nIn March 1951, the government of Israel requested $1.5  billion from the Federal Republic of Germany to finance the rehabilitation of 500,000 Jewish survivors, arguing that Germany had stolen $6 billion from the European Jews. Israelis were divided about the idea of taking money from Germany. The Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany (known as the Claims Conference) was opened in New York, and after negotiations, the claim was reduced to $845  million.\n\nIn 1988, West Germany allocated another $125 million for reparations. Companies such as BMW, Deutsche Bank, Ford, Opel, Siemens, and Volkswagen faced lawsuits for their use of forced labour during the war. In response, Germany set up the \"Remembrance, Responsibility and Future\" Foundation in 2000, which paid €4.45 billion to former slave laborers (up to €7,670 each). In 2013, Germany agreed to provide €772 million to fund nursing care, social services, and medication for 56,000 Holocaust survivors around the world. The French state-owned railway company, the SNCF, agreed in 2014 to pay $60 million to Jewish-American survivors, around $100,000 each, for its role in the transport of 76,000 Jews from France to extermination camps between 1942 and 1944.\n\nIn \"Is the Holocaust Unique?\" (1995), Shimon Samuels described the acrimonious debate in Holocaust scholarship between \"specifists\" and \"universalists\". The former fear debasement of the Holocaust by invidious comparisons. The latter consider it immoral to hold the Holocaust as beyond comparison. Peter Novick argued that it is \"deeply offensive\" to view the Holocaust as unique: What else can all of this possibly mean except 'your catastrophe, unlike ours, is ordinary'  ... \"\n\nHistorian Dan Stone wrote in 2010 that the idea of the Holocaust as unique has been overtaken by attempts to place it in the context of early-20th-century Stalinism, ethnic cleansing, war, and the Nazis' plans for \"demographic reordering\" after the war. Specifist arguments continue nevertheless to inform the views of many specialists. A 2015 view from a historian of the Third Reich, Richard J. Evans:\n\nBooks\nExternal links\n"}
{"id": "22234838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22234838", "title": "The Zeitgeist Movement", "text": "The Zeitgeist Movement\n\nThe Zeitgeist Movement is an activist movement established in the United States in 2008 by Peter Joseph. It advocates a transformation of society and its economic system to a non-monetary system based on resource allocation and environmentalism.\n\nThe Zeitgeist Movement was formed in 2008 by Joseph shortly after the late 2008 release of \"\", the second film in the \"Zeitgeist\" film series. The ideas were based on the Venus Project, a societal model created by social engineer Jacque Fresco. In the Venus Project, machines control government and industry and safeguard resources using an artificial intelligence \"earthwide autonomic sensor system\", a super-brain connected to all human knowledge. \n\nIn its first year, the movement described itself as \"the activist arm of the Venus Project.\" In April 2011, partnership between the two groups ended in an apparent power struggle, with Joseph commenting, \"Without [the Zeitgeist Movement], [the Venus Project] doesn’t exist – it has nothing but ideas and has no viable method to bring it to light.\" In an interview, Fresco said that although the Zeitgeist Movement wanted to act as the 'activist arm' of Venus project, Joseph never clarified what that would entail, and Fresco's ideas of how to change society were not followed. As a result, Fresco withdrew participation in the Zeitgeist Movement.\n\nThe group is critical of market capitalism, describing it as structurally corrupt and wasteful of resources. According to \"The Daily Telegraph\", the group dismisses historic religious concepts as misleading, and embraces sustainable ecology and scientific administration of society.\n\nThe first Zeitgeist documentary which predates the organization Zeitgeist movement, borrowed from the works of Eustace Mullins, Lyndon LaRouche, and Austin radio host Alex Jones. Much of its footage was taken directly from Alex Jones documentaries, such as his documentary \"Terrorstorm\".\n\n\"VC Reporter's\" Shane Cohn summarized the movement's charter as: \"Our greatest social problems are the direct results of our economic system\".\n\nThe group holds two annual events: Z-Day (or Zeitgeist Day), an \"educational forum\" held in March, and an art event called Zeitgeist Media Festival. The second Z-Day took place in Manhattan in 2009 and included lectures by Peter Joseph and Jacque Fresco. The organizers said that local chapters also held sister events on the same day. The Zeitgeist Media Festival was first held in 2011. Its third annual event took place on August 4, 2013 at the Avalon Hollywood nightclub in Los Angeles, California.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported in 2009 that the organization's second annual event sold out Manhattan Community College in New York with 900 people who paid $10 apiece to attend. The event's organizers said that 450 connected events in 70 countries around the globe also took place.\n\nAn article in the \"Journal of Contemporary Religion\" describes the movement as an example of a \"conspirituality\", a synthesis of New Age spirituality and conspiracy theory.\n\nMichelle Goldberg of \"Tablet Magazine\" called the movement \"the world's first Internet-based apocalyptic cult, with members who parrot the party line with cheerful, rote fidelity.\" In her opinion, the movement is \"devoted to a kind of sci-fi planetary communism\", and the that \"sparked\" the movement was \"steeped in far-right, isolationist, and covertly anti-Semitic conspiracy theories.\"\n\nAlan Feuer of \"The New York Times\" said the movement was like \"a utopian presentation of a money-free and computer-driven vision of the future, a wholesale reimagination of civilization, as if Karl Marx and Carl Sagan had hired John Lennon from his \"Imagine\" days to do no less than redesign the underlying structures of planetary life.\"\n"}
{"id": "1813235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813235", "title": "The woman question", "text": "The woman question\n\n'The woman question', which is translated from the French term \"querelle des femmes\" (literally, 'dispute of women') refers both to an intellectual debate from the 1400s to the 1700s on the nature of women and feminist campaigns for social change after the 1700s.\n\nWhile the French phrase \"querelle des femmes\" deals specifically with the Renaissance period, 'the woman question' in English (or in corresponding languages) is a phrase usually used in connection with a social change in the later half of the 19th century, which questioned the fundamental roles of women in Western industrialized countries such as the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada, and Russia. Issues of women's suffrage, reproductive rights, bodily autonomy, property rights, legal rights, and medical rights, and marriage dominated cultural discussions in newspapers and intellectual circles. While many women were supportive of these changing roles, they did not agree unanimously. Often issues of marriage and sexual freedom were most divisive.\n\nThe \"querelle des femmes\" or 'woman question' originally referred to a broad debate from the 1400s to the 1700s in Europe regarding the nature of women, their capabilities, and whether they should be permitted to study, write, or govern in the same manner as men. Both in the scholarly and popular sphere, authors criticized and praised women's natures, arguing for or against their capacity to be educated in the same manner as men. As classical Aristotelianism held that women are incapable of reason, many argued that women's nature prevented them from higher learning. As the debate developed, some agreed that men were not naturally more intelligent than women - but argued that the female nature also prevented them from taking higher learning seriously. In addition, there was great controversy over Classical notions of women as inherently defective, in which 'defenders of women' like Christine de Pizan and Mary Wollstonecraft attempted to refute attacks against women as a whole.\n\nWhile this debate was deeply important to some of those who wrote in support of or against women, participation in the \"querelle des femmes\" was also an intellectual exercise for many authors with less personal significance.\n\nA resurgence in the debate over the nature and role of women are illustrated by the Romantic movement's exploration in fiction and drama (and opera) of the nature of 'man', of human beings as individuals and as members of society. Conflict between women's prescribed roles, their own values, and their perceptions of self are prominent in such works as \"Die Walküre\", \"Effi Briest\", \"Madame Bovary\", \"Middlemarch\", \"Anna Karenina\", \"A Doll's House\", and \"Hedda Gabler\". Each of these addresses women's emotional, social, economic, and religious lives, highlighting the ways in which 'the woman question' had disrupted notions of a static nature which all women share.\n\nThe term was first used in France: the \"querelle des femmes\" (literally, 'dispute of women'). From 1450 into the years that witnessed the beginning of the Reformation, institutions controlled by the Catholic Church, had come into question. Secular states had begun to form in early modern Europe, and the feudal system was overtaken by centralized governments. This disruption extended to the relationships between men and women, and the Renaissance created a contraction of individual freedom for women, unlike men. These changes were justified through a number of arguments which referred to the inherent nature of women as subordinate to men.\n\nOn one side of the quarrel, many argued that women were inferior to men because man was created by God first, and were therefore stronger and more important. Also, much of Christianity, throughout the ages, has viewed women as the Daughters of Eve, the original temptress responsible for humanity being expelled from the Garden of Eden. Augustine in particular understood women as having souls that were 'naturally more seductive', and emphasized their 'powerful inborn potential to corrupt'.\n\nReligious justifications were not the only sources of information regarding woman's nature. As Renaissance humanism developed, there was great interest in returning to classical Greek and Roman philosophy. Classical philosophy held that women were inferior to men at a physical level, and this physical inferiority made them intellectually inferior as well. While the extent of this inferiority was hotly debated by the likes of Christine de Pizan and Moderata Fonte, women continued to be understood as inherently subordinate to men, and this was the basis for preventing from women from attending universities or participating in the public sphere.\n\nThe 'defenders of women' on one side of the debate, according to Joan Kelly, \"pointed out that the writings of the literate and the learned were distorted by what we now call sexism.\" They pointed out that accounts of women's deeds and nature were almost entirely written by men, many of whom had reasons to speak poorly of women. These writers, who were referred to as 'ladies' advocates' by the 17th and 18th centuries, promoted an empirical approach, which would measure the deeds and capabilities of women without bias. These arguments did not always insist that women were individuals, as modern feminists would argue, but often simply attempted to defend the 'nature' of women from slander.\n\nOne of the first women to answer 'the woman question' was Christine de Pizan. She published \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" in 1405, in which de Pizan narrated her learning of the value of women and their virtue. She wrote this book in response to a book called \"Romance of the Rose,\" which attacked women and the value of marriage. While de Pizan wrote this book to justify her place in the world of literature and publishing at the time, \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" can be considered one important source in early feminism.\n\nBaldassare Castiglione contributed to the \"querelle\" in \"The Courtier\" in 1527, which voiced some support for the 'gentle' side of the debate, which favored women. In 1529, Heinrich Agrippa contended that men in society did not oppress women because of some natural law, but because they wanted to keep their social power and status. Agrippa argued for the nobility of women and thought women were created better than men. He argued that in the first place, women being made better than man, received the better name. Man was called Adam, which means Earth; woman Eva, which is by interpretation Life. Man was created from the dust of the earth, while woman was made from something far purer. Agrippa's metaphysical argument was that creation itself is a circle that began when God created light and ended when he created woman. Therefore, women and light occupy adjacent points on the circle of creation and must have similar properties of purity.\n\nModerata Fonte wrote \"The Worth Of Women\" in 1600, which collected poetry and dialogues which proclaimed the value of women, arguing that their intelligence and capability to rule cannot be recognized if they are not educated. The tradition of defending women from specific attacks continued into the 1600s and 1700s:Another poet, Sarah Fyge Field Egerton, appears to have written \"The Female Advocate\" (1686) - at age 14! - in reply to the \"late satire on women\" quoted for its obscenity; Judith Drake penned \"An Essay in Defence of the Female Sex\" (1696); and women of low and high station continued the polemic in the eighteenth century. - Joan Kelly, \"Early Feminist Theory and the \"Querelle des Femmes.\"\n\nThe term \"querelle des femmes\" was used in England in the Victorian era, stimulated, for example, by the Reform Act 1832 and the Reform Act 1867. The Industrial Revolution brought hundreds of thousands of lower-class women into factory jobs, presenting a challenge to traditional ideas of a woman's place.\n\nA prime issue of contention was whether what was referred to as women's \"private virtue\" could be transported into the public arena; opponents of women's suffrage claimed that bringing women into public would dethrone them, and sully their feminine virtue.\n\nThe woman question was raised in many different social areas. For example, in the second half of the 19th century, in the context of religion, extensive discussion within the United States took place on the participation of women in church. In the Methodist Episcopal Church, the woman question was the most pressing issue in the 1896 conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6553678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6553678", "title": "United States federal civil service", "text": "United States federal civil service\n\nThe United States federal civil service is the civilian workforce (i.e., non-elected and non-military, public sector employees) of the United States federal government's departments and agencies. The federal civil service was established in 1871 (). U.S. state and local government entities often have comparable civil service systems that are modeled on the national system, in varying degrees.\n\nAccording to the Office of Personnel Management, , there were approximately 2.79 million civil servants employed by the U.S. government. This includes employees in the departments and agencies run by any of the three branches of government (the executive branch, legislative branch, and judicial branch), such as over 600,000 employees in the U.S. Postal Service.\n\nThe majority of civil service positions are classified as competitive service, meaning employees are selected based on merit after a competitive hiring process for positions that are open to all applicants. The Senior Executive Service (SES) is the classification for non-competitive, senior leadership positions filled by career employees or political appointments (e.g., Cabinet members, ambassadors, etc.). Excepted service positions (also known as unclassified service) are non-competitive jobs in certain federal agencies with security and intelligence functions (e.g., the , , State Department, etc.) that are authorized to create their own hiring policies and are not subject to most appointment, pay, and classification laws.\n\nIn the early 19th century, positions in the federal government were held at the pleasure of the president—a person could be fired at any time. The spoils system meant that jobs were used to support the American political parties, though this was gradually changed by the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act of 1883 and subsequent laws. By 1909, almost two-thirds of the U.S. federal workforce was appointed based on merit, that is, qualifications measured by tests. Certain senior civil service positions, including some heads of diplomatic missions and executive agencies, are filled by political appointees. Under the Hatch Act of 1939, civil servants are not allowed to engage in political activities while performing their duties. In some cases, an outgoing administration will give its political appointees positions with civil service protection in order to prevent them from being fired by the new administration; this is called \"burrowing\" in civil service jargon.\n\nEmployees in the civil services work under one of the independent agencies or one of the 15 executive departments.\n\nIn addition to departments, there are a number of staff organizations grouped into the Executive Office of the President. These include the White House staff, the National Security Council, the Office of Management and Budget, the Council of Economic Advisers, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Office of Science and Technology Policy.\n\nThere are also independent agencies such as the United States Postal Service, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). In addition, there are government-owned corporations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the National Railroad Passenger Corporation.\n\nThere were 456 federal agencies in 2009.\n\nThe pay system of the United States government civil service has evolved into a complex set of pay systems that include principally the General Schedule (GS) for white-collar employees, Federal Wage System (FWS) for blue-collar employees, Senior Executive System (SES) for Executive-level employees, Foreign Service Schedule (FS) for members of the Foreign Service and more than twelve alternate pay systems that are referred to as alternate or experimental pay systems such as the first experimental system China Lake Demonstration Project. The current system began as the Classification Act of 1923 and was refined into law with the Classification Act of 1949. These acts that provide the foundation of the current system have been amended through executive orders and through published amendments in the Federal Register that sets for approved changes in the regulatory structure of the federal pay system. The common goal among all pay systems is to achieve the goal of paying equitable salaries to all involved workers regardless of system, group or classification. This is referred to as pay equity or (\"equal pay for equal work\"). Select careers in high demand may be subject to a special rate table, which can pay above the standard GS tables. These careers include certain engineering disciplines and patent examiners.\n\nThe General Schedule (GS) includes white collar workers at levels 1 through 15, most professional, technical, administrative, and clerical positions in the federal civil service. The Federal Wage System or Wage Grade (WG) schedule includes most federal blue-collar workers. , 71% of federal civilian employees were paid under the GS; the remaining 29% were paid under other systems such as the Federal Wage System for federal blue-collar civilian employees, the Senior Executive Service/Senior Level and the Executive Schedule for high-ranking federal employees, and the pay schedules for the United States Postal Service and the Foreign Service. In addition, some federal agencies—such as the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation—have their own unique pay schedules.\n\nAll federal employees in the GS system receive a base pay that is adjusted for locality. Locality pay varies, but is at least 10% of base salary in all parts of the United States. The following salary ranges represent the lowest and highest possible amounts a person can earn in base salary, without earning over-time pay or receiving a merit-based bonus. Actual salary ranges differ adjusted for increased locality pay (for instance a GS-9, step 1 in rural Arkansas may start at $50,598 versus $61,084 in San Jose, California), but all base salaries lie within the parameters of the following ranges (effective January, 2018):\n\nNineteen percent of federal employees earned salaries of $100,000 or more in 2009. The average federal worker's pay was $71,208 compared with $40,331 in the private sector, although under Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76, most menial or lower paying jobs have been outsourced to private contractors. In 2010, there were 82,034 workers, 3.9% of the federal workforce, making more than $150,000 annually, compared to 7,240 in 2005. GS salaries are capped by law so that they do not exceed the salary for Executive Schedule IV positions. The increase in civil servants making more than $150,000 resulted mainly from an increase in Executive Schedule salary approved during the Administration of George W. Bush, which raised the salary cap for senior GS employees slightly above the $150,000 threshold.\n\nBasic pay rates for Senior Executive Service (i.e. non-Presidentially appointed civil servants above GS-15) will range from $119,554 to $179,700 in 2012.\n\n, the Federal Government, excluding the Postal Service and soldiers, employed about 2 million civilian workers. The Federal Government is the nation's single largest employer. Although most federal agencies are based in the Washington, D.C. region, only about 16% (or about 288,000) of the federal government workforce is employed in this region.\n\nPublic support in the United States for civil service reform strengthened following the assassination of President James Garfield. The United States Civil Service Commission was created by the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act, which was passed into law on January 16, 1883. The commission was created to administer the civil service of the United States federal government. The law required federal government employees to be selected through competitive exams and basis of merit; it also prevented elected officials and political appointees from firing civil servants, removing civil servants from the influences of political patronage and partisan behavior. However, the law did not apply to state and municipal governments.\n\nEffective January 1, 1978, the commission was renamed the Office of Personnel Management under the provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1978 \"(43 F.R. 36037, 92 Stat. 3783)\" and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978.\n\nThe United States Civil service exams have since been abolished for many positions, since statistics show that they do not accurately allow hiring of minorities according to the affirmative action guidelines.\n\nThis act abolished the United States Civil Service Commission and created the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM), the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) and the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB). OPM primarily provides management guidance to the various agencies of the executive branch and issues regulations that control federal human resources. FLRA oversees the rights of federal employees to form collective bargaining units (unions) and to engage in collective bargaining with agencies. MSPB conducts studies of the federal civil service and mainly hears the appeals of federal employees who are disciplined or otherwise separated from their positions. This act was an effort to replace incompetent officials.\n\nPresident Donald Trump signed three executive orders designed to enforce merit-system principles in the civil service and intended to improve efficiency, transparency, and accountability in the federal government. U.S. District Court Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson struck down the majority of Trump's executive orders, ruling they were a violation of federal law. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37049480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37049480", "title": "We Demand a Referendum Now", "text": "We Demand a Referendum Now\n\nWe Demand a Referendum Now (WDARN) was a British political party launched by independent Member of the European Parliament (MEP) Nikki Sinclaire in June 2012 following her departure from the UK Independence Party (UKIP). It was a single-issue party that sought to force a referendum on British membership of the European Union (EU).\n\nWe Demand a Referendum Now was registered with the Electoral Commission in June 2012 by Nikki Sinclaire. The party held its inaugural conference on 5 October 2012.\n\nThe party ran a slate of candidates in the West Midlands European Parliament constituency for the 2014 European Parliament elections. This was less than their announced plans to stand candidates in every British region. The party received 1.7% of the vote in the West Midlands, and did not win any seats.\n\nWe Demand a Referendum aimed to \"go beyond party politics\" and \"do everything within [its] power to enable a referendum\". Its leadership accused the EU of being protectionist and called for the creation of a Royal Commission to look into the costs and benefits of EU membership for the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
