{"id": "13667757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13667757", "title": "800-The-Info", "text": "800-The-Info\n\n800-The-Info (or 1-800-843-4636) was a toll-free directory assistance (DA) and information service provided in the United States by Verizon. 800-The-Info was subsidized by businesses that purchase advertising space on the service. Callers did not pay for the service, but had to listen to ads. The service offered local business listings including numbers and addresses.\n\nLike other advertising supported services, callers use a toll-free number to reach an automated system. They then can ask for a particular business, or ask for business recommendations by a location in a city. This type of category search is different from typical 411 requests that focus on asking for specific listings. At the outset, the system plays an advertisement and there can be other ads later on in the call. The system can also provide details to the caller's wireless phone via text message.\n\nVerizon’s service competed with many new entrants providing similar services. 1-800-FREE-411 is currently the market leader with reportedly 20 million calls per month in 2007. AT&T's yellow pages, and others, are also now competing for this small but growing segment. Current growth figures suggest the segment will reach 1.5 billion calls per year in the U.S. by 2010.\n\nNearly all of these services targeted traditional, paid DA services, rates of which can range from $0.39 on a landline phone to $1.99 (i.e. Verizon wireless) or more on cell phones. This form of pure substitution may bring in new users but it also will capture volume from traditional DA services.\n\nWhat was not clear for any of these providers is whether there will be enough expansion in advertisers to support the business model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22185825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22185825", "title": "Ancient Egyptian creation myths", "text": "Ancient Egyptian creation myths\n\nAncient Egyptian creation myths are the ancient Egyptian accounts of the creation of the world. The Pyramid Texts, tomb wall decorations and writings, dating back to the Old Kingdom (2780 – 2250 B.C.E) have given us most of our information regarding early Egyptian creation myths. These myths also form the earliest religious compilations in the world. The ancient Egyptians had many creator gods and associated legends. Thus the world or more specifically Egypt was created in diverse ways according to different parts of the country.\n\nIn all of these myths, the world was said to have emerged from an infinite, lifeless sea when the sun rose for the first time, in a distant period known as \"zp tpj\" (sometimes transcribed as Zep Tepi), \"the first occasion\". Different myths attributed the creation to different gods: the set of eight primordial deities called the Ogdoad, the self-engendered god Atum and his offspring, the contemplative deity Ptah, and the mysterious, transcendent god Amun. While these differing cosmogonies competed to some extent, in other ways they were complementary, as different aspects of the Egyptian understanding of creation. \n\nThe different creation myths have some elements in common. They all held that the world had arisen out of the lifeless waters of chaos, called Nu. They also included a pyramid-shaped mound, called the \"benben\", which was the first thing to emerge from the waters. These elements were likely inspired by the flooding of the Nile River each year; the receding floodwaters left fertile soil in their wake, and the Egyptians may have equated this with the emergence of life from the primeval chaos. The imagery of the pyramidal mound derived from the highest mounds of earth emerging as the river receded.\n\nThe sun was also closely associated with creation, and it was said to have first risen from the mound, as the general sun-god Ra or as the god Khepri, who represented the newly-risen sun. There were many versions of the sun's emergence, and it was said to have emerged directly from the mound or from a lotus flower that grew from the mound, in the form of a heron, falcon, scarab beetle, or human child.\n\nAnother common element of Egyptian cosmogonies is the familiar figure of the cosmic egg, a substitute for the primeval waters or the primeval mound. One variant of the cosmic egg version teaches that the sun god, as primeval power, emerged from the primeval mound, which itself stood in the chaos of the primeval sea.\n\nThe different creation accounts were each associated with the cult of a particular god in one of the major cities of Egypt: Hermopolis, Heliopolis, Memphis, and Thebes. To some degree, these myths represent competing theologies, but they also represent different aspects of the process of creation.\n\nThe creation myth promulgated in the city of Hermopolis focused on the nature of the universe before the creation of the world. The inherent qualities of the primeval waters were represented by a set of eight gods, called the Ogdoad. The god Nu and his female counterpart Naunet represented the inert primeval water itself; Huh and his counterpart Hauhet represented the water's infinite extent; Kek and Kauket personified the darkness present within it; and Amun and Amaunet represented its hidden and unknowable nature, in contrast to the tangible world of the living. The primeval waters were themselves part of the creation process, therefore, the deities representing them could be seen as creator gods. According to the myth, the eight gods were originally divided into male and female groups. They were symbolically depicted as aquatic creatures because they dwelt within the water: the males were represented as frogs, and the females were represented as snakes. These two groups eventually converged, resulting in a great upheaval, which produced the pyramidal mound. From it emerged the sun, which rose into the sky to light the world.\n\nIn Heliopolis, the creation was attributed to Atum, a deity closely associated with Ra, who was said to have existed in the waters of Nu as an inert potential being. Atum was a self-engendered god, the source of all the elements and forces in the world, and the Heliopolitan myth described the process by which he \"evolved\" from a single being into this multiplicity of elements. The process began when Atum appeared on the mound and gave rise to the air god Shu and his sister Tefnut, whose existence represented the emergence of an empty space amid the waters. To explain how Atum did this, the myth uses the metaphor of masturbation, with the hand he used in this act representing the female principle inherent within him. He is also said to have \"sneezed\" and\"spat\" to produce Shu and Tefnut, a metaphor that arose from puns on their names. Next, Shu and Tefnut coupled to produce the earth god Geb and the sky goddess Nut, who defined the limits of the world. Geb and Nut in turn gave rise to four children, who represented the forces of life: Osiris, god of fertility and regeneration; Isis, goddess of motherhood; Set, the god of chaos; and Nephthys, the female complement of Set. The myth thus represented the process by which life was made possible. These nine gods were grouped together theologically as the Ennead, but the eight lesser gods, and all other things in the world, were ultimately seen as extensions of Atum.\n\nThe Memphite version of creation centered on Ptah, who was the patron god of craftsmen. As such, he represented the craftsman's ability to envision a finished product, and shape raw materials to create that product. The Memphite theology said that Ptah created the world in a similar way. This, unlike the other Egyptian creations, was not a physical but an intellectual creation by the Word and the Mind of God. The ideas developed within Ptah's heart (regarded by the Egyptians as the seat of human thought) were given form when he named them with his tongue. By speaking these names, Ptah produced the gods and all other things.\n\nThe Memphite creation myth coexisted with that of Heliopolis, as Ptah's creative thought and speech were believed to have caused the formation of Atum and the Ennead. Ptah was also associated with Tatjenen, the god who personified the pyramidal mound.\n\nTheban theology claimed that Amun was not merely a member of the Ogdoad, but the hidden force behind all things. There is a conflation of all notions of creation into the personality of Amun, a synthesis which emphasizes how Amun transcends all other deities in his being \"beyond the sky and deeper than the underworld\". One Theban myth likened Amun's act of creation to the call of a goose, which broke the stillness of the primeval waters and caused the Ogdoad and Ennead to form. Amun was separate from the world, his true nature was concealed even from the other gods. At the same time, however, because he was the ultimate source of creation, all the gods, including the other creators, were in fact merely aspects of Amun. Amun eventually became the supreme god of the Egyptian pantheon because of this belief.\n\nAmun is synonymous with the growth of Thebes as a major religious capital. But it is the columned halls, obelisks, colossal statues, wall-reliefs and hieroglyphic inscriptions of the Theban temples that we look to gain the true impression of Amun's superiority. Thebes was thought of as the location of the emergence of the primeval mound at the beginning of time.\n"}
{"id": "48459764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48459764", "title": "Annals of Carnegie Museum", "text": "Annals of Carnegie Museum\n\nAnnals of Carnegie Museum is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by the Carnegie Museum of Natural History. It was established in 1901 by the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie Institute. The journal is distributed both in print and online. The museum's Office of Scientific Publications also publishes the \"Bulletin of Carnegie Museum of Natural History\" and \"Special Publications of Carnegie Museum\".\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the Science Citation Index, Scopus, Biosis, and Geobase.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 0.724, ranking it 38th out of 49 journals in the category \"Paleontology\" and 115th out of 153 journals in the category \"Zoology\".\n"}
{"id": "4231878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4231878", "title": "Awn Alsharif Qasim", "text": "Awn Alsharif Qasim\n\nAwn Al-Sharif Qasim () (June 16, 1933 – January 19, 2006) was a prolific Sudanese writer, encyclopedist, a prominent scholar, a powerful community leader, a man of charity and one of Sudan's leading experts on Arabic language and literature.\n\nHe was a strong advocate of Arabic/Islamic culture and its interweaving with Sudanese culture. Qasim authored more than 70 books in the area of Islamic history and civilization, Arabic literature, studies in the Sudanese dialect languages.\n\nAlong with Professor Abdalla Eltayeb and Professor Abu Saleem, Qasim was considered one of the scholars who shaped the Sudanese academic scene during the last 3 decades of the 20th century.\n\nProfessor Qasim was born in Sudan's ancient city Halfayat Almilook in 1933. His father immigrated to Sudan from Yemen in 1925 and settled in the city of Halfayat Almilook in Khartoum North and became a known religious figure in the area teaching and educating on Islamic sciences. Due to this background, Qasim was exposed to a heritage of Islamic and Arabic culture education since his early childhood that later on shaped his life.\n\nHe graduated from the College of Liberal Arts at the University of Khartoum in 1957. He earned his masters degree in 1960 majoring in Arabic and Islamic studies from the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London. In 1967, he earned his PhD from the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.\n\nQasim served as a minister of religious affairs for 10 years (1971-1981) the longest period served by a minister in all Sudanese governments. During this period he demonstrated exceptional qualities as a leader and political religious figure and soon became one of the most popular and beloved ministers in Sudan's 1970s government for his strong work ethics, humbleness and honesty. He was able to connect with different religious groups and to promote ideas of peace and harmony among these groups. Qasim continued to write during this period and published dozens of books for the public. After the military coup by Omer Al Bashir, he was arrested along with other ministers from Nimeiri's government.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, he authored the \"Sudanese Encyclopedia of Tribes and Genealogies\", a pioneer, state of the art series of books for the different Sudanese tribes, their roots and origins. This project has entitled him to earn Az-Zubair Prize for Innovation and Scientific Excellence, the highest prestigious prize awarded by Sudanese government. He was also awarded the Egyptian prestigious First Class Golden Award for scientific achievements in 1992 by Egyptian President Muhammad Husni Mubarak.\n\nQasim also authored \"Dictionary of Sudanese Dialects\" another valuable source of information on Sudanese culture. His dictionary is used worldwide by scholars as a valuable reference on Sudanese dialects.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20463531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20463531", "title": "BSWW World Ranking", "text": "BSWW World Ranking\n\nThe BSWW World Ranking is a ranking system for men's national teams in beach soccer, calculated by the sport's developmental body, Beach Soccer Worldwide (BSWW). The rankings are currently led by Brazil who have held the number 1 spot since May 2017.\n\nThe teams (both member nations of FIFA – the sport's governing body – and non-members) are ranked using a \"points-per-event system\", whereby the ranking of the team in the final standings of each event they participate in awards that team a certain amount of points; the teams that accumulate the most points are ranked highest.\n\nThe rankings were introduced in February 2014 and are updated monthly; three teams (Russia, Portugal and Brazil) have held the top position, of which Russia have spent the longest ranked first.\n\nThe ranking system is based upon that which is used to produce the FIFA World Rankings in its parent sport, association football, and since its establishment has been used for such purposes as seeding teams at the FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup.\n\nSince the 2000s, BSWW had been producing a European ranking; it was used to seed the teams in regional events. At each competition the teams played in, they earned points depending on their final position (an approach also adapted for use in the world ranking).\n\nBSWW believed creating a world ranking would help teams, national associations and fans in understanding the \"reality of beach soccer\".\n\nThe ranking was first presented at the 2nd FIFA Beach Soccer Workshop in Dubai from 22–23 November 2013 to representatives of over 100 national associations who debated the composition of its materialisation.\n\nIn building the initial version of the ranking, BSWW took into account \"many aspects and factors\" used to create the FIFA World Rankings. Points earned from events over the previous five years (2009–13) were observed to include the outcomes of the three previous World Cups, therefore providing \"an extensive results record and a solid criteria\" for its basis; the results of over 1400 matches from ~100 events were integrated into the ranking. The weight of a team's points was reduced by 20% going back year on year.\n\nThe finalised version was subsequently released on 6 February 2014; for succeeding updates, the current calculation method immediately superseded the method use to create the initial ranking.\n\"As of October 2016\"\nThe teams are ranked using a \"points-per-event system\"; in each event they participate, the teams will earn ranking points (providing the event is sanctioned by BSWW and/or FIFA) – the number of points they earn is determined by their placement in the final standings of that event. The higher in the standings the team finishes, the more points they will earn. Runners-up receive 25% less points than the champions; for most subsequent places, they receive 20% less points than the position above (rounded to the nearest 5).\n\nBSWW have divided the different types of competitions on the calendar into seven tiers of prestige for the purposes of the world ranking. Higher tier events that are deemed to be the most prestigious reward teams with more points than lower tier events. \n\nThe following table shows exactly how many points a team will earn per their final position at each type of event:\n\nOnly the total points earned from the above events over the last four years (counting back from the current month) go towards the team's ranking; points older than four years expire and do not count.\n\nThe four years in question are assessed as individual twelve month periods; the total points earned during each period are weighted differently to put an emphasis on the value of points earned more recently. 100% of a team's total points gained during the last twelve months count towards their ranking. However, from the three preceding twelve month periods, only a portion of their points earned during each count towards their ranking; the portion that counts gets smaller the further back in time the period in question is which are 75%, 50% and 25% of their original points totals respectively.\n\nThis is illustrated/summarised in the table below:\n\nThree teams have been ranked world number 1, namely Russia, Portugal and Brazil. The rank leaders have roughly coincided with the team that is reigning World Cup champions during that time.\n\nWhen the rankings debuted in February 2014, Russia were the inaugural world leaders, having amassing over 5000 points thanks to winning the 2011 and 2013 World Cup and Euro Beach Soccer League (EBSL) titles. Portugal won the next World Cup in July 2015 and the EBSL in the August; Russia finished third in both. Despite Portugal's successes, they were not enough to knock Russia off the top spot until June 2016. Portugal relinquished their world crown to Brazil in May 2017 who immediately took the number 1 ranking.\n\nOnly one team has peaked at number 2 without yet going on to reach the top spot which is Iran; Switzerland have peaked at number 3, the highest of any landlocked country.\n\n\"Movers of the Month\" is a commendation bestowed by BSWW with the release of each new update to the rankings to give recognition to the team that during that month (providing that they have played) has moved up the rankings the most or the team which has gained the most points. It began with the September 2015 update when became official sponsors of the rankings.\n\nThe following tables list the winners of \"Movers of the Month\":\n\n"}
{"id": "46685181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46685181", "title": "Benjamín Carrión Palace", "text": "Benjamín Carrión Palace\n\nBenjamín Carrión Palace () is a palace and museum in Quito, Ecuador. Named after Benjamín Carrión, it was built in 1946-8. The building is located in the district of Itchimbía, near the border with La Mariscal. Its south side is adjacent to El Arbolito and was one of the first structures completed in the complex of buildings which create the Cultural Center of Ecuador.\n"}
{"id": "375646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375646", "title": "Black Country Living Museum", "text": "Black Country Living Museum\n\nThe Black Country Living Museum (formerly The Black Country Museum) is an open-air museum of rebuilt historic buildings in Dudley, West Midlands, England. It is located in the centre of the Black Country, 10 miles west of Birmingham. The museum occupies of former industrial land partly reclaimed from a former railway goods yard, disused lime kilns, canal arm and former coal pits.\n\nThe museum opened to the public in 1978, and has since added over 50 shops, houses and other industrial buildings from around the Metropolitan Boroughs of Dudley, Sandwell and Walsall and the City of Wolverhampton (collectively known as the Black Country); mainly in a specially built village. Most buildings were relocated from their original sites to form a base from where demonstrators portray life spanning 300 years of history, with a focus on 1850-1950.\n\nThe museum is constantly improving as new exhibits, especially buildings, are being added.\n\nThe museum is close to the site where Dud Dudley first mastered the technique of smelting iron with coal instead of wood charcoal and making iron enough for industrial use. Having a claim to be \"the birthplace of the Industrial Revolution\", the Black Country is famous for its wide range of midsteel-based products from nails to the anchor and anchor chain for the Titanic.\n\nThe site's coal mining heritage is shown by an underground drift and colliery surface buildings. The museum has a working replica of a Newcomen atmospheric engine. Thomas Newcomen's invention was first successfully put to use in Tipton in 1712. The museum's reconstruction was based on a print engraved by Thomas Barney, filemaker of Wolverhampton, in 1719.\n\nElectric trams and trolleybuses transport visitors from the entrance to the village where thirty domestic and industrial buildings have been relocated close to the canal basin. The museum is one of three in the UK with working trolleybuses. The route to the village passes the Cast Iron Houses and a 1930s fairground. A narrowboat operated by Dudley Canal Trust makes trips on the Dudley Canal and into the Dudley Tunnel.\n\nOn 16 February 2012, the museum's collection was awarded designated status by Arts Council England (ACE), a mark of distinction celebrating its unique national and international importance.\n\nThe museum is run by the Black Country Living Museum Trust, a registered charity under English law.\n\nBy the main entrance in the old Rolfe Street Baths are displays of local artefacts encompassing some of the many products which were made by Black Country industry, cast iron hollow ware, animal traps, vehicles, chain, anchors, enamels, weighing scales, laundry irons, nails, locks and fire clay products. The exhibition includes more fragile items such as glassware, reflecting the centuries-old industry that produced lead crystal glass and the Joseph Chance glass works between Oldbury and Smethwick.\n\nThe museum site contained 42 disused mine shafts, most of which had been filled in. Two are preserved, one at the Racecourse Colliery and Brook Shaft.\n\nIn 1712, Thomas Newcomen built the world's first successful steam engine which was used for pumping water from coal mines on Lord Dudley's estates. In 1986, after ten years of research, the museum completed the construction of a full-scale working replica of the engine. The \"fire engine\" is housed in a brick building from which a wooden beam projects through one wall. Rods hang from the outer end of the beam and operate pumps at the bottom of the mine shaft which raise the water to the surface. The engine has a boiler, a cylinder and piston and operating valves. A coal fire heats water in the boiler which is little more than a covered pan and the steam generated passes through a valve into the brass cylinder above it. The cylinder is more than two metres long and 52 centimetres in diameter. The steam in the cylinder is condensed by injecting cold water and the vacuum beneath the piston pulls the inner end of the beam down causing the pump to move.\n\nLime working and processing was carried out on the site from medieval times. Evidence of quarries and underground remains, the canal, and preserved lime kilns are parts of a scheduled ancient monument which has features from the medieval, Industrial Revolution and 20th century.\nStanding alongside canal arm are the lime kilns, built by the Earl of Dudley to process limestone quarried from Wren's Nest workings. The earliest of the three surviving kilns dates from the late 18th century.\n\nThe trap shop was built in 1913 in Rookery Street, Wednesfield. It was offered to the museum in 1982. Sidebotham's Steel Trap Works was not rebuilt in its entirety and the original structure was shortened. The exhibit, set around 1930, contains the office, trap shop and the machine shop.\n\nThe nail shop is a replica of a back-yard workshop, built in the 1880s from 17 Chapel Street, Halesowen. It houses equipment from the Halesowen workshop operated by Sidney Tether in the 1940s. It is in use on a regular basis by the resident nail maker who demonstrates the skill of forging nails by hand.\n\nThe brass foundry was built in 1869 in Shaw Street, Walsall and closed after the Second World War but re-opened in 1964 by James Powell and used until his death in 1973. The building and its equipment were relocated to the museum in 1986. It can be seen in operation when the brass caster demonstrates traditional skills in casting horse brasses, pot hooks and other small items.\n\nThe rolling mill installed at the Birchley Works in Oldbury in 1923 ceased to operate in 1976 and it was moved to Lord Ward's Canal Arm. The museum operates the it from time to time using volunteers.\n\nThe Anchor Forge was rescued from Isiah Preston's in Cradley Heath. The steam-hammer was installed second hand in the 1920s to forge parts for ships' anchors and the other equipment including furnace and boiler also came from Prestons. The building was saved from Johnson's Rolling Mill site in West Bromwich.\n\nThe chain maker's shop represents one of the many workshops that made small and medium size chain. By the mid-1800s the chain industry was mostly associated with Cradley, Cradley Heath, Old Hill, Quarry Bank and Netherton. It is operational and the skill of making chain by hand can be watched daily.\n\nAn Oliver hammer was a treadle-operated hammer that forged bolts by forcing red hot lengths of iron into a die. The machine shop contained several Oliver hammers used to forge special parts to order. It was founded by Onan Lowe and taken over by T. W. Lench Ltd.\n\nOn the low ground at the northern end of the site, houses, shops, workshops and public buildings have been dismantled and rebuilt brick by brick to create an early 20th-century village. Activities in the buildings are demonstrated by staff in period costume. The village preserves a cross section of social and industrial history.\n\nThe village shops include Gregory's General Store, Emile Doo's chemist shop, a sweet shop and cake shop with a bakery at the back. There is a hardware and ironmongers shop from Pipers Row in Wolverhampton. and a pawnbroker's shop that was relocated to the museum in 1991.\n\nBrook Street back-to-back houses, built in the 1850s, were relocated from Woodsetton and were the homes of colliers, farm workers and ironworkers. The anchor maker's house from Lawrence Lane in Old Hill was the first to be relocated to the museum and is an example of late-Victorian housing.\n\nPublic buildings include Providence Chapel from Darby End/Hand near Netherton, one of the first buildings to be rebuilt, and the Bottle and Glass Inn a working public house set out as it would have been in 1910.\n\nThe village postbox stood on the corner of Baker Street and Blandford Street, London in 1865. It was and designed by architect J W Penfold and made by Cochrane, Grove and Company.\n\nThe Carter's Yard from Ogley Hay Road Burntwood, Cannock was built around 1900. It was dismantled and brought to the museum in the 1990s.\n\nOld Birmingham Road links St James's School with the Cradley Heath Workers' Institute. Here buildings have been set in the 1930s to tell the story of the years leading up to the Second World War.\n\nMuseum staff in St James's School demonstrate lessons and school life from the turn of the 20th century. The school building opened in Eve Hill, Dudley in 1842 for pupils aged 5–11. It was decided to transfer the building to the museum in 1989 and relocation was completed by October 1990, with the exhibit opening the following year.\n\nHobbs & Sons fish and chip shop and H Morrall's gentlemen's outfitters have been returned to 1935 condition. The shops come from Hall Street, Dudley and date from the late-18th century and refaced with bright red pressed brickwork in 1889. The tiled interior of Hobbs features restored hand-painted tiled wall panels. The frying range is of a design patented in 1932 made by E.W. Proctor of Huddersfield. In the 1930s many of Joseph Hobbs's customers worked in factories or shops.\n\nFour buildings were rescued from Birmingham Street, Oldbury and date to about 1860. The block is dominated by the green painted fascia of Humphrey Brothers, builders' merchants, who occupied the premises from 1921. It has a replica shop front from about 1932. Humphreys sold fireplaces, sanitaryware and building supplies including Walpamur, a flat paint used for internal walls. The motorcycle shop is based on the business of A. Hartill & Sons which was located in Mount Pleasant, Bilston. The window displays of locally made six motor bikes from 1929–34. Next door is Alfred Preedy & Sons tobacconist shop, established in Dudley in 1868. James Gripton's radio shop is from the 1920s and this reconstruction, set in 1939, contains 'new' and second radios.\n\nThe brick tunnel and cart entrance provide access to a late 1930s kitchen with an electric cooker made by Revo of Tipton. There is a radio workshop behind Gripton's and then the stairs lead to two first floor living rooms and two bedrooms which are all set in the late 1930s and furnished with original 1930s style furniture and wall paper.\n\nThe Cradley Heath Workers' Institute was built with surplus funds raised in 1910 during the strike for a minimum wage by women chain makers. The Arts and Crafts style building was designed by architect, Albert Thomas Butler, and opened on 10 June 1912. It became a centre for educational meetings, social gatherings and trade union activities in Cradley Heath. Re-erected at the museum it is a monument to Mary Macarthur and her campaign to establish a national minimum wage in the \"sweated trades\" where people worked long hours for poverty wages typically in appalling conditions. The building contains reconstructed offices, a news room with a digital interpretation of the background to the strike and a large hall which is used for a wide range of activities including theatre performances and concerts.\n\nThe 1930s fairground located behind the school represents a travelling fairground that would have brought entertainment to people in the early 1900s. Such fairs set up on waste ground and for a few days provided thrills, entertainment and a change for those who might never go on holiday. The collection of historic rides includes a helter skelter and the Ark, the latest thing in high-speed rides when introduced in the 1920s. It was updated over the years but not converted into a waltzer. It remains one of the few \"fourlift\" Arks in the country.\n\nWork began on the boat dock in 1976 and the museum aimed to recreate a typical dock that would have been found on the Birmingham Canal Navigations (BCN). Docks like the one at the museum would have been formed from recycled wooden boats. They were used to build wooden boats or maintain iron and composite boats.\nAdjacent to the museum is the Dudley Tunnel. Visitors can take a 45-minute skipper-guided trip into the tunnel through the historic limestone mines and caverns on a boat operated by the Dudley Canal Trust.\n\nThe museum's boat display consists of boats that it owns, are on loan or have mooring agreements.\n\nThe museum owns:\nOther boats at the museum:\n\nThe size of the museum site provides the opportunity to demonstrate many of the road transport exhibits which were both used and made in the Black Country.\n\n\nThe Black Country Living Museum operates a trolleybus service on certain days, unlike the tram which is usually operated seven days a week. The route is one of the few double deck trolley bus services left in the world, as most of the world's trolley buses are single deckers.\n\nThe museum's fleet numbers three resident trolleybuses from the Black Country's two former trolley bus networks, and one which has been painted to resemble a local trolleybus. Unlike Birmingham's tram service, Birmingham Corporation Trolley Buses never operated in the Black Country. The Resident Fleet is listed below;\n\n\nWolverhampton was home to some early manufacturers of motor cars, such as Sunbeam, Clyno, AJS and Star. Frisky cars were also made in Wolverhampton, while the Black Country town of Kingswinford is home to Westfield cars.\n\nThe museum collection includes a 1903 Sunbeam, a 1912 Star and a 1931 AJS as well as examples of later vehicles such as the Kieft, Frisky and Westfield Topaz.\n\nThere are approximately 40 motorcycles in the museum's collection, all of which were made in the Black Country. A large proportion were manufactured by Sunbeam and AJS, but there are also examples by firms such as Wearwell Cycle Company and Rockson. The museum is affiliated to the British Motorcycle Charitable Trust.\n\nThe museum does not have an extensive collection of Black Country bicycles, but there are examples by manufacturers such as Harry Albino and Star.\n\nUnusual vehicles in the fleet include a 1924 Guy-Morris fire engine, a Model T Ford van used by Willenhall firm Brevitt's and a Bean of Tipton flatbed truck.\n\nIn addition to the wide range of displayed collections, the museum has extensive research collections held in store. These include historic objects, archival material and library books, all of which can be viewed by appointment.\n\nThe museum has been used as a set for many film and television productions, particularly Peaky Blinders drama produced by BBC. \"Stan & Ollie\", a feature film on the life of Laurel and Hardy, shot some of its scenes on the museum's 1930s Street.\n\nOn 15 June 2017 it was announced that the museum had been awarded £9.8 million from the National Lottery towards their £21.7m project BCLM: Forging Ahead, which will allow the museum to tell the story of the Black Country up to the closure of the Baggeridge Coal Mine in 1968. Plans include the translocation, recreation or replication at the Museum of Wolverhampton's Elephant & Castle pub, Dudley's Burgin’s Newsagents, a hairdressers, an NHS clinic, West Bromwich Gas Showroom and Dudley's Woodside Library, and a butchers all dating from the 1940s to the 1960s. The new plans will see the museum space increase by one third. The plans are due to be completed in 2022. It is expected that 60 jobs would be created directly as a result of the expansion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38384399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38384399", "title": "Black Country Living Museum boat dock", "text": "Black Country Living Museum boat dock\n\nThe boat dock at the Black Country Living Museum was built in 1976, like many boat docks in the region its buildings are made out of recycled boat timbers from derelict wooden boats. The thousands of boats that used to work the Black Country canals all needed constant maintenance.\n\nIn this area there were many working boat yards, or docks, like this one, where boats were built and repaired. They were busy, cluttered places not unlike a modern scrap yard as it was common practice to break wooden boats, salvaging the ironwork.\n\nCastlefields boat dock is typical of the many on the Black Country canal system of the period and is equipped to build new working craft and to repair those of iron or composite construction. The dock can accommodate three boats, drawn sideways out of the water by winches onto the slip. There are a number of different buildings on the boat dock each serving a specific purpose.\n\nBased on an 1880s design the blacksmith shop would have wrought all the supplies needed for boat repair such as specialist nails and bolts and the L shaped boat 'knees' used to reinforce the boat structure. Some blacksmiths may have made horseshoes for the canals working horses.\n\nNext to the blacksmiths shop is a series of sheds, the first is made out of the bottom of a recycled boat (see picture). The sheds consist of a nail store and a rivet store which includes a carpenters bench and cast iron stove. At the end of the row is a paint store which would have held all the essentials used in boat painting like red lead, pigments and varnishes. There is also a tackle store with a corrugated roof which would have housed lifting tackle and other boat handling equipment.\n\nThe boat dock also featured a toilet (earth closet) and a stable to house the working horses. Horses provided 'hosmuck an' tar' (horsemuck and tar) that was used to seal the wooden boats.\n"}
{"id": "1453397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1453397", "title": "Bobby Heenan", "text": "Bobby Heenan\n\nRaymond Louis Heenan (November 1, 1944 – September 17, 2017), better known as Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan, was an American professional wrestling manager, color commentator, wrestler, and comedian, best known for his time with the American Wrestling Association (AWA), the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW).\n\nFrequently described as the greatest professional wrestling manager of all time, he was known for his skill in elevating villainous on-screen talent by drawing negative reactions for himself and his wrestlers from the crowd. He was paired with numerous wrestlers, including Nick Bockwinkel, whom he led to win the AWA World Heavyweight Championship, and he became an integral figure in the 1980s professional wrestling boom by managing King Kong Bundy and André the Giant in WWF main event matches with Hulk Hogan at WrestleMania 2 and WrestleMania III respectively.\n\nKnown for his quick wit and comedic ability, Heenan also served as a color commentator and is remembered for his on-screen repartee with Gorilla Monsoon. Heenan retired from full-time appearances in 2000 after a six-year stint as a commentator in WCW but he continued to make sporadic appearances in several promotions. In 2002, he was diagnosed with throat cancer, which limited his appearances in later years, and he died from complications of it in 2017. Outside of wrestling, Heenan authored two books, appeared on numerous television shows, and briefly hosted a parody talk show titled \"The Bobby Heenan Show\" on \"WWF Prime Time Wrestling\". He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2004.\n\nRaymond Louis Heenan was born in Chicago, Illinois, on November 1, 1944. Heenan dropped out of school in the eighth grade to support his mother and grandmother. As a fan of wrestling growing up in Chicago and Indianapolis, he started in the wrestling profession early on, carrying bags and jackets for the wrestlers, and selling refreshments at events.\n\nIn 1965, Heenan became a regular in William Afflis' (known by his in-ring persona Dick the Bruiser) Indianapolis-based WWA promotion under the moniker \"Pretty Boy\" Bobby Heenan. That year, he wrestled his first match against Calvin \"Prince\" Pullins. Heenan said that he was never trained as a wrestler and that it came naturally to him. He was booked as both a manager and a wrestler after the promoters saw how well he handled the physical aspects of his managerial duties. During his time in WWA, he managed Angelo Poffo and Chris Markoff, the Assassins (Guy Mitchell and Joe Tomasso), The Valiant Brothers and The Blackjacks. In particular, Heenan was credited with making Blackjack Lanza one of the top wrestling villains in the country. This impressed promoter Sam Muchnick, who typically hated wrestling managers, and Heenan is believed to be the only heel manager to work in Muchnick's St. Louis Wrestling Club. He also occasionally wrestled with a storyline \"brother\" Guy Heenan, portrayed by Guy Mitchell, from the Assassins. In 1974, he left the WWA. He attributed his departure to a dispute with Afflis over pay for his participation in the first-ever wrestling event held at Market Square Arena, emphatically stating that he never returned to the promotion as a result.\n\nAfter leaving WWA, Heenan announced he was now to be known as \"The Brain\" at his AWA debut in 1974. He took up managing the team of Nick Bockwinkel and Ray \"The Crippler\" Stevens, a duo which became several-time AWA World Tag Team Champions under his leadership. While Bockwinkel and Stevens feuded with The Crusher and Dick the Bruiser, Bruiser famously called Heenan \"Weasel\"; this led to his rivals calling him \"Weasel\" throughout the rest of his wrestling career. The AWA was the starting point for the first incarnation of his eponymous heel stable, The Heenan Family, which initially consisted of Bockwinkel, Stevens, Bobby Duncum Sr., and Blackjack Lanza.\n\nOn January 25, 1975, an angry fan fired a gun at Heenan in Chicago's International Amphitheatre after Heenan interfered in one of Bockwinkel's matches. Heenan was unharmed, but five people sitting ringside were injured, one of them critically. Later in 1975, with Heenan again in his corner, Bockwinkel captured his first of several AWA World Heavyweight Championships, ending the seven-year reign of perennial champion and AWA promoter Verne Gagne. While Bockwinkel was AWA Champion in 1976, Lanza and Duncum captured the AWA World Tag Team Championship, making Heenan the first manager in history to simultaneously manage both a major promotion's singles and tag team champions.\n\nIn early 1979, Heenan left the AWA (suspended one year, in storyline) to work in Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW). During his short tenure in GCW, Heenan managed a stable of wrestlers that included the likes of Killer Karl Kox, Masked Superstar, Ernie Ladd and Blackjack Lanza. Heenan met a young Hulk Hogan while in Georgia and later told AWA promoter Verne Gagne that he should hire him. According to Heenan, he moved his family to Atlanta after being told by GCW promoter Ole Anderson that he could work for the promotion as long as he wanted to only to fire him less than a year later. Anderson admitted to firing him but denied promising him indefinite employment.\n\nIn late 1979, Heenan returned to AWA and resumed managing Nick Bockwinkel to renewed championship success, including against Hogan in 1983. During AWA's tour of Japan in 1983, Heenan suffered a neck injury in a match with Atsushi Onita that would limit his in-ring ability going forward.\n\nIn 1984, Heenan left AWA to join the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). While most of the AWA talent left for the WWF during this time without giving proper notice (the AWA required departing talent to work a six-week notice for booking and syndication-based reasons, with most talent claiming that WWF promoter Vince McMahon paid them extra \"not\" to work out their notices with the AWA), only Heenan worked out his notice in good faith to the Gagne family. He was written out of AWA television when Wally Karbo announced on the September 28 AWA broadcast that Heenan had been suspended indefinitely by AWA President Stanley Blackburn for initiating a brawl with Fabulous Ones.\n\nHeenan was signed by the WWF in 1984 with the intention of him managing Jesse Ventura, however Ventura's retirement due to blood clots in his lungs prevented this from happening. Instead, Heenan managed Big John Studd in his feud against André the Giant. Studd challenged André to a US$15,000 bodyslam match at the first WrestleMania, with the stipulation being that André would have to retire had he lost. André won the match and then took the bag with the $15,000 and started throwing it out to the crowd before Heenan snatched the bag.\nHeenan reformed the Heenan Family, which over the years in the WWF would include Studd, \"Olympic Strong Man\" Ken Patera, \"Playboy\" Buddy Rose, \"Mr. Wonderful\" Paul Orndorff, King Kong Bundy, André the Giant, High Chief Sivi Afi, the Brain Busters (former Four Horsemen members Arn Anderson and Tully Blanchard), \"Ravishing\" Rick Rude, \"King\" Harley Race, the Islanders (Haku and Tama), Hercules, The Barbarian, Mr. Perfect, The Red Rooster, and The Brooklyn Brawler. Heenan and the Heenan Family had a feud with Hulk Hogan in the 1980s, and Heenan managed two WrestleMania challengers to Hogan's title, King Kong Bundy in 1986, and André the Giant in 1987. While neither Bundy nor André won the title at that time, André later bested Hogan for the championship on \"The Main Event\" on February 5, 1988, in a controversial win after he aligned himself with \"The Million Dollar Man\" Ted DiBiase.\n\nAfter being derided by announcers for his first five years in the WWF (mostly by Gorilla Monsoon) for never managing a champion, WrestleMania V was promoted (mostly by Jesse Ventura and later Gorilla Monsoon) as Heenan's quest, and best chance since WrestleMania III to manage a champion. Heenan finally managed his first champion in the WWF when \"Ravishing\" Rick Rude upset The Ultimate Warrior for the WWF Intercontinental Championship, a match Heenan insured Rude would win by holding Warrior's leg down so he could not break the pin. Shortly thereafter, he led the Brain Busters to win the WWF World Tag Team Championship. After the Busters had lost the titles back to Demolition a few months later, he led the Colossal Connection (André and Haku) to win the Tag Team Championship when they defeated Demolition. Demolition would win the titles back in WrestleMania VI. Immediately after the loss, Heenan began blaming the loss to André the Giant going as far as slapping him. A few months after that, he led Mr. Perfect to Intercontinental Championship success.\n\nHeenan also wrestled sporadically in his WWF run. In his in-ring debut at Madison Square Garden in November 1984, he pinned Salvatore Bellomo. Heenan's most notable victory came at WrestleMania IV, teaming with The Islanders to defeat The British Bulldogs and Koko B. Ware. The following year, he was defeated in 30 seconds by former client The Red Rooster at WrestleMania V. Heenan also wrestled a series of \"Weasel Suit matches\" against The Ultimate Warrior, who defeated Heenan by forcing him into a weasel costume.\n\nHeenan retired from managing in 1991 to become a full-time commentator. Nonetheless, Heenan crossed the line to managing sporadically. When the WWF signed Ric Flair, Heenan spent several weeks talking Flair up as \"The Real World's Heavyweight Champion\", appearing onscreen with Flair's Big Gold Belt. He continued to act as an adviser to Flair during his WWF run from 1991 to 1993. Though he nominally managed Flair, Heenan's former protégé Mr. Perfect, who temporarily retired due to injury, would regularly accompany Flair to ringside as his \"Executive Consultant\". At the 1993 Royal Rumble, he introduced \"The Narcissist\" Lex Luger to the WWF to exact revenge on his former protégé, Mr. Perfect.\n\nIn 1986, WWF owner Vince McMahon took full advantage of his microphone and comedic skills and Heenan became a color commentator in addition to his managing duties. He replaced Jesse Ventura on \"Prime Time Wrestling\" and \"All American Wrestling\", aired on the USA Network, teaming up with Gorilla Monsoon. He also replaced Ventura to team up with Monsoon on the syndicated \"All-Star Wrestling\", which was replaced in the fall of 1986 with \"Wrestling Challenge\". Although the purpose of these shows were to summarize weekly WWF events, viewers tuned in to see Heenan and Monsoon's interactions. Heenan, calling himself a \"broadcast journalist\", bashed fan favorites and cheered for their opponents while they cheated or did something under-handed. He referred to the fans as \"humanoids\", and fan favorites, especially enhancement talent, as \"ham-and-eggers.\" Another moment between the pair often occurred when Heenan would go on a long rant supporting the villainous wrestlers, until an exasperated Monsoon would say either: \"Will you stop?\", \"Give me a break!\", or a sarcastic, \"Please!\"\n\nHeenan, still suffering from the broken neck he received ten years earlier and unable to cope with the long working hours, decided to leave the WWF at the end of 1993. He was given an on-air farewell by Gorilla Monsoon on the edition of December 6, 1993 of \"Monday Night Raw\", broadcast from the Westchester County Center in White Plains, New York. Fed up by Heenan's constant insults, Monsoon threw him and his belongings out of the arena and onto the street. After the show, Heenan stated that he and Monsoon embraced each other and wept for over an hour in the hotel where they both were staying.\n\nHeenan's original plan was to retire, spend time with his family, and relax, but he was contacted by WCW soon after he left the WWF. He was unsure at first, but accepted their offer once he found out that WCW provided lighter work schedules and health insurance. Heenan also cited the short driving distance between WCW's home base of Atlanta and his daughter's school in Alabama.\n\nOn January 27, 1994, Heenan made his debut in World Championship Wrestling (WCW). He was originally brought in to replace Jesse Ventura, his former client, as the color commentator for \"WCW Saturday Night\" and eventually took over Ventura's position as the company's lead commentator, replacing him for pay-per-view events and on the syndicated \"WCW Worldwide\" and \"Clash of the Champions\" events produced for TBS. When \"WCW Monday Nitro\" premiered in September 1995, Heenan left \"Saturday Night\" to work on the new show full-time and joined former Chicago Bears defensive lineman Steve McMichael as an analyst alongside play-by-play man Eric Bischoff. He was later frequently paired with Tony Schiavone.\n\nIn 1996, Heenan made a one-off return to ringside at The Great American Bash as the manager of two of his former clients, Ric Flair and Arn Anderson, in a tag team match against his broadcast colleague McMichael and then-Carolina Panthers linebacker Kevin Greene. Heenan was instrumental in convincing McMichael to turn on his partner, which enabled Flair and Anderson to win the match, and fill the open spot in The Four Horsemen that Brian Pillman left behind when he departed the company earlier in the year.\n\nAt the following pay-per-view, Bash at the Beach 1996, Heenan reacted incredulously when Hulk Hogan walked out during the main event match between The Outsiders (Kevin Nash and Scott Hall) and Sting, Lex Luger and Randy Savage by shouting \"Whose side is he on?\" Hogan subsequently turned his back on the fans and joined Hall and Nash to form the New World Order (nWo). Despite no longer being a fan favorite, Heenan continued to bash Hogan on commentary by gloating that he had been right about him all along, continuing a rivalry that dated back to their time in AWA.\n\nStarting in late January 2000, WCW replaced Heenan on \"Monday Nitro\" and pay-per-view events with Mark Madden. Heenan continued to commentate on \"Thunder\" along with Mike Tenay, and later Schiavone, until he was replaced by Stevie Ray beginning in July 2000. Heenan was then only seen with Scott Hudson on \"Worldwide\" until he was released by WCW in November 2000. Heenan said he was uninspired in WCW due to the negative work environment and due to conflicts with Schiavone. WCW went out of business less than a year after his release.\n\nOn April 1, 2001, Heenan returned to the WWF and provided commentary to the Gimmick Battle Royal match at WrestleMania X-Seven alongside \"Mean\" Gene Okerlund. Heenan was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2004 (WWF changed its name to WWE in 2002) by Blackjack Lanza. The following night, he appeared at WrestleMania XX in a skit with Gene Okerlund, Mae Young and The Fabulous Moolah. He inducted his protégés Paul Orndorff, The Blackjacks and Nick Bockwinkel into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2005, class of 2006 and class of 2007 respectively. In his last WWE appearance, he was one of the speakers for \"Mr McMahon appreciation night\" on the June 11, 2007 episode of \"Raw\".\nHeenan made several appearances on the independent circuit. In February 2001, Heenan did color commentary for the \"WOW Unleashed\" pay-per-view. Also in 2001, Heenan worked briefly as a \"sports agent\" in the Xcitement Wrestling Federation with Curt Hennig under his tutelage. In 2004, he feuded with fellow manager Jim Cornette in Ring of Honor.\n\nHeenan made a series of appearances for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) in December 2005, culminating at the Turning Point pay-per-view, where he provided commentary for the Six Man Tag Team Basebrawl match between The Diamonds in the Rough and Chris Sabin, Dale Torborg and Sonjay Dutt. His final appearance for TNA was on the September 7, 2006 episode of \"Impact!\", when he appeared to make a bid to manage \"free agent\" Robert Roode.\n\nPro Wrestling Report honored Heenan at the annual \"Blizzard Brawl\" event on December 5, 2009, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, as he was given their Lifetime Achievement Award. In addition to this, The mayor of Milwaukee, Tom Barrett, declared December 5, 2009, to be \"Bobby Heenan Day\".\n\nDespite declining health in his final years, Heenan continued to make appearances at fan conventions. He enjoyed staying in touch with former colleagues and fans.\n\nHeenan made appearances as a guest on various television shows, including: \"Family Feud\", \"Live with Regis and Kathie Lee\", \"The Jerry Lewis MDA Labor Day Telethon\", Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards, \"The Arsenio Hall Show\", and \"The Dennis Miller Show\". He also made an appearance in the 1995 film \"Timemaster\". Heenan had a parody talk show known as \"The Bobby Heenan Show\", which was broadcast in four segments during the second half of WWF's regular weekly program \"Prime Time Wrestling\".\n\nHis first memoir, \"Bobby The Brain: Wrestling's Bad Boy Tells All\", was released by Triumph Books on September 1, 2002 with a foreword from Hulk Hogan. A second memoir, \"Chair Shots and Other Obstacles: Winning Life's Wrestling Matches\", was released by Sports Publishing on March 1, 2004 and has an introduction by Ric Flair. Both books were co-written by Steve Anderson.\n\nIn 2004, he joined former WCW commentators Tony Schiavone and Larry Zbyszko in providing commentary for the video game \"\". After his Hall of Fame induction, Heenan provided comments for use in WWE documentary releases. In December 2010, WWE released a retrospective two-disc DVD on Heenan's career titled \"WWE: Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan\".\n\nHeenan was married to the former Cynthia Jean Perrett (known as Cindy) from June 21, 1978 until his death. Together they had a daughter, Jessica. He also had two grandchildren.\n\nAlthough on-screen they were often at odds, Heenan was actually very close with his WWF broadcast partner Gorilla Monsoon. He was also close friends with announcers Gene Okerlund and Mike Tenay. Various other people involved with the wrestling business, including Jim Ross, on-screen adversary Hulk Hogan and Ted DiBiase, noted their close friendships with Heenan on their Twitter accounts after he died.\n\nIn January 2002, Heenan announced that he had throat cancer. By 2004, the cancer had gone into remission. The treatments caused a great deal of weight loss, dramatically altering his appearance and voice.\n\nIn December 2007, Heenan had reconstructive surgery on his jaw, after the first surgery was unsuccessful. He was placed in a medically induced coma and was slowly brought out. In the second half of January 2008, he had come out of his medically induced coma. For a time, Heenan was unable to speak and had to communicate with his eyes. In December 2009, Heenan was hospitalized after an examination of his rebuilt jaw found an infection that needed to be treated.\n\nIn the last few years of his life, he suffered a series of falls. In 2010, he broke a hip and his shoulder in a fall that also fractured his pelvis. He fell out of bed and broke a shoulder in April 2014. In May 2016, he fell again and broke a hip.\n\nOn September 17, 2017, Heenan died at the age of 72 while surrounded by family at his home in Largo, Florida. His cause of death was organ failure due to complications from the throat cancer that had been in remission since 2004.\n\nHeenan is considered by many to be the greatest wrestling manager of all time, including WWE, who placed him at the top of their 25 greatest managers list in 2011. \"The Post and Courier\" columnist Mike Mooneyham said Heenan became a blueprint for managers and fellow manager Jim Cornette said: \"He formed in my mind as a fan and performer what I thought a manager should be.\" Author Brian Shields notes that many consider him \"one of the most significant figures in professional wrestling history\". For his work in promoting André the Giant's match with Hulk Hogan at WrestleMania III, often cited as the most famous American professional wrestling match, Heenan received a six-figure payoff—arguably the largest pay day in any managerial career. Broadcaster Peter Rosenberg considers Heenan a personal hero and describes him as the best commentator, manager and bad guy in WWE history. Rosenberg stated that Heenan \"operated on multiple levels\", adding: \"If you were a little kid, he was the foil to your hero. As an adult, you look back and appreciate just how much of a comedic genius he was.\"\n\nLongtime on-screen rival Hulk Hogan wrote in the foreword to Heenan's \"Bad Boy Tells All\": \"Bobby was a legendary wrestler ... He will go down in the books as someone who mastered the craft\". These comments were echoed by Triple H, who said that Heenan was one of the best in-ring talents but chose to be a manager. Journalist Wade Keller states that what sets him apart from other managers was his ability to take \"tremendous bumps\" (falls to the mat after being attacked). Pro wrestling historian George Schire praised his in-ring ability, commenting: \"Bobby was a good athlete – flipping over the ropes, he could do it all. And whether it was as the manager or as a wrestler, he could get the crowd going as well as anyone.\"\n\nHis comedic ability was praised by Dave Meltzer of the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\", who wrote that Heenan could have been a successful television actor. Comedian David Letterman became a fan of Heenan after seeing him in WWA. WWE Hall of Fame commentator Jim Ross selected Heenan as the greatest talent in the history of the wrestling business. Ross praised Heenan's ability as a color commentator, stating: \"He was naturally funny ... and enhanced every single talent, including the heroes, even though Bobby did not support the fan favorites as the bad guy announcer. [Heenan] did what every announcer should strive to do and that is to make talent bigger stars than they are and to embellish every talent's TV persona.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1725756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1725756", "title": "Business directory", "text": "Business directory\n\nA business directory is a website or printed listing of information which lists businesses within niche based categories. Businesses can be categorized by niche, location, activity, or size. Business may be compiled either manually or through an automated online search software. Online yellow pages are a type of business directory, as is the traditional phone book.\n\nThe details provided in a business directory may vary. They may include the business name, addresses, telephone numbers, location, contact information, type of service or products the business provides, the number of employees, the served region and any professional associations. Some directories include a section for user reviews, comments, and feedback. Business directories in the past would take a printed format but have recently been upgraded to websites due to the advent of the internet.\n\nMany business directories offer complimentary listings in addition to the premium options. There are many business directories and some of these have moved over to the internet and away from printed format. Whilst not being search engines, business directories often have a search function, enabling users to search businesses by Zip Code, country, state, area or city.\n\nBusiness directories can be in either hard copy or in digital format. Ease of use and distribution means that many trade directories have a digital version.\n\n"}
{"id": "40940672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40940672", "title": "Carriots", "text": "Carriots\n\nCarriots by Altair Engineering offers an end-to-end Internet of Things (IoT) platform designed for today’s industry needs and tomorrow’s innovations. Carriots is a smart Platform as a Service (PaaS) designed for machine to machine (M2M) and digital twin projects. Carriots accelerates your IoT application development and provides simple scalability as your projects and devices grow. Carriots lets users collect & store data from connected devices, build powerful applications, deploy and scale from prototypes to thousands of devices.\n\nOpen-architecture by design, the integration of Altair’s HyperWorks and Carriots software platforms for simulation-driven design and device management allows for a complete turn-key IoT solution encompassing simulation, cloud High Performance Computing, Big Data analytics and Application Enablement Platform (AEP) technologies to support any IoT project and Digital Twin strategies. \n\nThe quickest way to sign up for Carriots is to sign up for a Carriots (free) account. There is no cost to this account, and it allows you to use many of the features available in the service.\n\n\n\nAny commercial, open or custom made hardware is potentially compatible with Carriots. It needs to have Internet connectivity and talk to a REST API.\nCompatible tested hardware:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1250078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1250078", "title": "Cf.", "text": "Cf.\n\nThe abbreviation cf. (short for the , both meaning \"compare\") is used in writing to refer the reader to other material to make a comparison with the topic being discussed. It is used to form a contrast, for example: \"Abbott (2010) found supportive results in her memory experiment, unlike those of previous work (cf. Zeller & Williams, 2007).\" It is recommended that \"cf.\" be used only to suggest a comparison, and the word \"see\" be used to point to a source of information.\n\nIn biological naming conventions, cf. is commonly placed between the genus name and the species name to describe a specimen that is difficult to identify because of practical difficulties, such as the specimen being poorly preserved. For example, \"' cf. '\" indicates that the specimen is in the genus \"Barbus\", and believed to be \"\" but the actual species-level identification cannot be certain.\n\nCf. can also be used to express a possible identity, or at least a significant resemblance, such as between a newly observed specimen and a known species or taxon. Such a usage might suggest a specimen's membership of the same genus or possibly of a shared higher taxon, such as in, \", cf. \"\"\", where the author is confident of the order and family (Diptera: Tabanidae), but can only offer the genus (\"Tabanus\") as a suggestion and has no information favouring a particular species.\n\n"}
{"id": "43995895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43995895", "title": "Comparative ranks of Nazi Germany", "text": "Comparative ranks of Nazi Germany\n\nThe comparative ranks of Nazi Germany contrasts the ranks of the German Wehrmacht to a number of national-socialist organisations in Nazi Germany from 1933 to 1945 in a synoptic table. Nazi organisations used a hierarchal structure, according to the so-called \"Führerprinzip\" (leader principle), and were oriented in line with the rank order system of the Wehrmacht.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7343721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7343721", "title": "Comparison of AMD processors", "text": "Comparison of AMD processors\n\nColors of the processor code names indicate same core.\n\n"}
{"id": "22256588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22256588", "title": "Comparison of Canon EOS digital cameras", "text": "Comparison of Canon EOS digital cameras\n\nThe following tables provide general information as well as a comparison of technical specifications for a number of Canon EOS digital cameras.\n\n"}
{"id": "13564252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13564252", "title": "Comparison of Gaelic football and Australian rules football", "text": "Comparison of Gaelic football and Australian rules football\n\nThe relationship between Australian rules football and Gaelic football is the subject of controversy among historians. The question of whether the two codes of football, from Australia and Ireland respectively, have shared origins arises due to similar styles of play in both games.\n\nBoth Irish and Irish Australian historians, including Patrick O'Farrell, Marcus De Búrca, Chris McConville, B. W. O'Dwyer and Richard Davis, have supported the theory that the two games have some common origins. Other Australian historians, including Geoffrey Blainey, Leonie Sandercock and Ian Turner, have rejected any such connection, emphasising instead the influence of rugby football and other games emanating from English public schools. Some sources also suggest that the Australian Aboriginal game of Marn Grook was an influence on Australian rules football.\n\nIn 1967, following approaches from Australian rules authorities, there was a series of games between an Irish representative team and an Australian team, under various sets of hybrid, compromise rules. In 1984, the first official representative matches of International rules football were played, and the Ireland international rules football team now plays the Australian team annually each October. Since the 1980s, some Gaelic players, such as Jim Stynes and Tadhg Kennelly, have been recruited by the professional Australian Football League (AFL) clubs and have had lengthy careers with them.\n\nAside from game-play, a social difference between the codes is that Gaelic football is strictly amateur, whereas Australian football offers professional (Australian Football League) and semi-professional (VFL, SANFL, WAFL, etc.) levels of competition, providing a strong financial lure for Irish players to switch to Australian football.\n\nThe earliest record of a recognised precursor to the modern game date from a match in County Meath in 1670, in which catching and kicking the ball was permitted. The earliest recorded inter-county match in Ireland was one between Louth and Meath, at Slane, in 1712, about which the poet James Dall McCuairt wrote a poem of 88 verses beginning \"Ba haigeanta\".\n\nGaelic football was codified by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) in 1887. GAA founder and Irish nationalist Michael Cusack wanted the rules of Gaelic football to differ from rugby union, which was making headway in Ireland at the time.\n\nAustralian rules football was codified in 1859 by members of the Melbourne Football Club. The first rules were devised by the Australian-born Tom Wills, who was educated at Rugby School; Englishmen William Hammersley and J. B. Thompson, fellow students at Cambridge's Trinity College; and Irish Australian Thomas H. Smith, who played rugby football at Dublin University. Their knowledge of English public school football games, and the conditions and terrain of Melbourne's parklands, influenced the first rules of Australian football. It has been suggested that Wills was influenced by an Australian Aboriginal game, Marn Grook, as Wills grew up in an area where the game was played by local tribes. Historians such as Geoffrey Blainey have argued that the origins of Australian rules football lie purely with rugby and other English public school games.\n\nIn 1843, Irish immigrants in South Australia celebrated St Patrick's day by playing a game of Caid in Thebarton.\n\nSome historians have argued that Gaelic football influenced Australian football. For example, Patrick O'Farrell has pointed out that the Irish sport of hurling, which has similar rules to Gaelic football, was played in Australia as early as the 1840s, and may also have been an influence on the Australian game. B. W. O'Dwyer points out that Australian football has always been differentiated from rugby football by having no limitation on ball or player movement (in the absence of an offside rule), the need to bounce the ball (or toe-kick it, known as a \"solo\" in Gaelic football) while running, punching the ball (hand-passing) rather than throwing it, and other traditions. As O'Dwyer says:\n\nO'Dwyer's argument relies heavily on the presence of Irish immigrants on the Victorian goldfields during the Victorian goldrushes of the 1850s, and a comparison of the two modern games. There is no archival evidence to prove a direct influence of caid on Australian football.\n\nAnother theory suggests that influences may have originated from the opposite direction: Archbishop Thomas Croke, one of the founders of the GAA, was the Bishop of Auckland and lived in New Zealand between 1870 and 1875. As a result of the New Zealand gold rushes of the 1860s, there were many Australian-born settlers in New Zealand, and Victorian rules was popular there at the time. Croke therefore had an opportunity to witness the Australian game being played. Such claims are regarded by some historians as purely circumstantial evidence for a relationship between the two codes, and any resemblances are the result of something akin to parallel or convergent evolution. Geoffrey Blainey wrote:\n\"This list is incomplete\"\n\nBoth codes use grassed fields of similar length, however Australian Football fields are oval shaped, slightly longer and wider, usually cricket fields.\nAnother key difference is the score posts. Australian rules consists of four posts without a crossbar or net, whereas Gaelic football consists of two posts with crossbar and net.\n\nThe Gaelic football \"pitch\" is rectangular, stretching 130–145 metres long and 80–90 metres wide. There are H-shaped goalposts at each end with a net on the bottom section. Lines are marked at distances of 13 m, 20 m and 45 m from each end-line.\n\nAn Australian Football playing field, is oval shaped, and may be 135–185 m long and 110–155 m wide. It has a centre circle, centre square to control player positioning at start of play, and superficial markings including the 50-metre lines and goal squares.\n\nGoal posts are 6.4 metres wide for both codes.\n\nThe obvious difference is the ball used.\n\nAustralian rules uses an oval ball (a prolate spheroid), similar to a rugby ball. This makes a difference in the variety and style of kicking. Australian rules is capable of producing a diverse range of kicking styles, the drop punt is most commonly used in the modern game, more so at professional levels.\n\nGaelic football uses a round ball similar to a soccer or volleyball. The round ball can be kicked anyway you like, inside, outside and middle of your boot. The instep is the most popular style based on culture, the drop punt used in Gaelic is a far superior kick in terms of distance and accuracy, but is rarely taught.\n\nAustralian rules has evolved to have sleeveless jumpers, whereas Gaelic footballers wear short sleeved outfits similar to soccer or rugby tops. Long sleeves (usually worn due to cold weather) are acceptable in both codes.\n\nSenior Australian rules matches typically go for 80 minutes, consisting of four 20-minute quarters (plus added time on; which ensures that many quarters in the professional and semi-professional leagues go for closer to 30 minutes, making the actual game length usually 105 to 120 minutes long).\n\nSenior Gaelic football matches go for 70 minutes consisting of two halves.\n\nIn both games, players must dispose of the ball correctly, by hand or by foot and the ball must not be thrown. Gaelic football deems the \"open hand tap\" to be legitimate disposal, whereas Australian rules enforces the handpass or disposal with a clenched fist.\n\nUnlike other forms of football, both games are notably distinct because of the absence of an offside rule.\n\nIn both games, a player must bounce (or \"Solo\" in Gaelic) the ball while running.\n\nAustralian rules allows full tackling above the knees and below the shoulders, whereas Gaelic football explicitly disallows tackling.\n\nBoth sports allow \"shepherding\" or blocking, although in Australian rules, bumping is allowed on players not in possession of the ball, whereas in Gaelic it is limited to use on players in possession of the ball.\n\nBoth games begin with the ball in the air. However, Australian rules has a bounce down and allows only two players to contest the bounce.\n\nBoth Gaelic football and Australian Football are openly contested and free flowing games.\n\nThe main difference is the awarding of a \"mark\" for any clean catch of over 15 metres off a kick in Australian rules, which results in a free kick or possession of the ball. This rule has never existed in Gaelic and is a fundamental difference between the two games. High marking or 'speckies' are one of the most important spectator attributes of Australian rules. In Gaelic football, regardless of a clean catch, a player must play on.\n\nIn Australian rules, when a ball is kicked \"out of bounds on the full\", it is a free kick to the opposite team to the player who kicked the ball.\n\nAustralian rules allows picking the ball up directly off the ground whereas Gaelic football does not (the ball must only be picked up by foot).\n\nAnother key difference is that in Australian rules, tackling is allowed to either dispossess a player or cause the player to be caught \"holding the ball\" which results in a free kick. Gaelic football does not have such a rule.\n\nPossession may change in different ways in both games:-\n\n\nIn both codes, tactical kicking is an important aspect of play.\n\nIn Australian rules, penalties available (in increasing order of severity) are:\n\nIn Gaelic football, the penalties available (in increasing order of severity) are:\n\nIn both codes, goals can be kicked by foot or shin. Gaelic football does not enforce this, however, and goals may also be scored by other parts of the body.\n\nA goal is worth 3 points in Gaelic football and 6 points in Australian Football.\n\nIn both games, a point may be awarded for missing the goal. In Gaelic football, this is scored above the crossbar (known simply as a \"point\"). In Australian rules, this is scored between the shorter post and the goal post (known as a \"behind\").\n\nThere are usually many more goals scored in Australian rules, as there is no goalkeeper position due to the vertically limitless scoring area.\n\nThe mark has been a feature of Australian rules football since the game was codified in 1859. After trials in the Irish game, a limited version of the mark — only for catches from kick-ins on or beyond the 45m line — was introduced from 2017.\n\nMany of the positions have similar names and are very similar. There is no \"ruckman\" in Gaelic football and there is no \"goalkeeper\" in Australian rules, instead there is a \"fullback\", although the fullback in Australian rules is not required to guard a goal in the same way that a goalkeeper does.\n\nA maximum of 15 players per side can play Gaelic football on the field at any one time, whereas Australian rules permits 18 players per side.\n\n"}
{"id": "36057385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36057385", "title": "Comparison of crowdfunding services", "text": "Comparison of crowdfunding services\n\nCrowdfunding is a process in which individuals or groups pool money and other resources to fund projects initiated by other people or organizations \"without standard financial intermediaries.\" Crowdfunded projects may include creative works, products, nonprofit organizations, supporting entrepreneurship, businesses, or donations for a specific purpose (e.g., to pay for a medical procedure). Crowdfunding usually takes place via an online portal that handles the financial transactions involved and may also provide services such as media hosting, social networking, and facilitating contact with contributors. It has increased since the passage of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act.\n\nCrowdfunding has a wide reach and may be utilized by businesses, nonprofit organizations, an individual, group, or an organization. Crowdfunding is used in a variety of platforms from social media to face-to-face environments. The use of crowdfunding has increased; however, success is not guaranteed.\n\nFunds may be sought out to start a business, to support a cause, or to reach a fundraising goal. Most crowdfunding projects are small and “seek to raise small amounts of capital, often under $1000.” An individual or organization may not qualify for a traditional bank loan, and crowdfunding provides another opportunity to gain financial support from others. The use of crowdfunding has gained an increased presence since the JOBS Act and has a significant social media presence. “Approximately 25 percent of real-world relationships start online, with people of all ages migrating online to find a partner. Crowdfunding is doing for small businesses and entrepreneurs what dating sites have done for singles.” Those unable to procure funding from traditional methods, may be interested in pursuing crowdfunding as an option; however, the success rate may be a deterrent. E. Mollick examined Kickstarter projects from 2009 through 2012 and found many projects were not successful as only “3% raise 50% of their goal,” and he stated that successful projects succeed “by relatively small margins.” \n\nCrowdfunding is donation-based fundraising for businesses or creative projects, typically via an online funding portal. Some but not all crowdfunding projects offer contributors rewards, which may differ based on the amount of money donated. Rewards can include copies of a creative work, products generated with the funding, special or personalized incentives (such as autographed works or promotional merchandise), or public recognition. One can classify crowdfunding as using one of the following models:\n\n\nIn equity crowdfunding, a crowdfunding approach is used to raise investment capital, and contributors receive equity in the resulting business. It is a joint effort made between individuals to support the causes of other people or organizations in the form of equity. Contributors may act as investors and receive shares directly, or the crowdfunding service may act as a nominated agent. Equity crowdfunding helps \"the 90 percent of businesses that were left out in the cold\" by traditional funding methods, which is why it has become such a viable option for business startups.\n\nEquity-based funding is illegal in many countries, such as India. In the United States the JOBS Act of 2012 regulated the trend. This \"legislation was intended to increase access to capital for the innovative companies\" in need of investment capital and allows a pool of small investors to come together.\n\nThis mode, also known as \"non-equity\" funding, has become increasingly popular, with a 230 percent increase in 2012. Reward-based crowdfunding may fund campaigns supporting the free development of software, the promotion of motion pictures, scientific research, development of inventions, etc. Reward-based funders expect a return from the project.\n\nThis is known as \"Peer to Peer\", \"P2P\", \"marketplace lending\", or \"crowdlending\". Borrowers set up campaigns to fulfill their financial needs, and lenders contribute toward the goal for an interest. This method of online funding may prove to be \"a threat to the traditional banking system in the areas of consumer and business loans, as has already been demonstrated by the rapid success of [these] online lending marketplaces.\"\n\nA plaintiff requests a monetary donation to fund a court case. If the claimant wins, investors may get more than their initial investment.\n\nThis type of crowdfunding \"is part of a trend in which people are relying less on charities to help them fulfill their philanthropic aims\".\nThe best example might be raising funds from individuals to support personal or social causes.\n\nPeople make donations for different reasons and give to different entities. Donors may give to feel good about themselves or because they believe in a cause. Some donations are made to individuals while others are made to organizations. The same is true in online crowdfunding. However, some differences exist in their method of giving, geography, and demographics. \n\nOnline crowdfunding donors differ from traditional fundraising donors in that donors give anonymously, do not have a connection to the recipient, and donors may seek out a cause or recipient to give to. Another important factor is that online donors are not limited by their geographic location and can give to individuals or organizations anywhere in the world. When it comes to motives, donations are made to individuals to help them reach a goal and typically drop off once that is met; however, donations to organizations are made for a greater societal good. The demographics of online donors vary from traditional donors as “online donors tend to be younger and give larger gifts than traditional donors.” This is important for online campaign organizers to note as they determine their target audience; however, those over 50 have increased their social media usage and have a presence on Facebook.\n\nMore research is needed in regard to the topic of crowdfunding in general. There are benefits to online crowdfunding as it has the ability to tap into audiences that are not close in geographic proximity to an individual or organization and to increase awareness about a campaign. However, with relatively low funding success rates reported, \"social networking and traditional approaches to fundraising may be complements\" to help individuals and organizations raise funds but not a replacement.” \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265048", "title": "Comparison of project management software", "text": "Comparison of project management software\n\nThe following is a comparison of project management software.\n"}
{"id": "1956350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1956350", "title": "Comparison of video container formats", "text": "Comparison of video container formats\n\nThis table compares features of container formats (video file formats). To see which multimedia players support which container format, look at comparison of media players.\n\n"}
{"id": "4158479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4158479", "title": "Curran v. Mount Diablo Council of the Boy Scouts of America", "text": "Curran v. Mount Diablo Council of the Boy Scouts of America\n\nCurran v. Mount Diablo Council of the Boy Scouts of America, 17 Cal.4th 670, 952 P.2d 218, 72 Cal.Rptr.2d 410 (1998), was a landmark case which upheld the right of a private organization in California to not allow new members on the basis of their sexual orientation. Its companion case was \"Randall v. Orange County Council\", 17 Cal.4th 736, 952 P.2d 261, 72 Cal.Rptr.2d 453 (1998).\n\nIn 1980, eighteen-year-old Tim Curran, an Eagle Scout, applied to be an assistant Scoutmaster in the Mount Diablo Council Boy Scouts of America. Members of the Boy Scouts of America, however, had recently learned that Curran was gay after reading an Oakland Tribune article on gay youth which featured an interview with Curran. Based on his sexual orientation, the Boy Scouts of America refused to allow Curran to hold a leadership position in their organization.\n\nCurran sued in 1981, alleging that the Boy Scouts of America's membership requirements amounted to unlawful discrimination under California's Unruh Civil Rights Act, which required \"Full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges or services in all business establishments\".\n\nThis case was ultimately decided in 1998, when the California Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Boy Scouts of America. The court held that because the Boy Scouts of America was not considered a “business establishment” under the Unruh Civil Rights Act, it could not be required to change its membership policies so as to include homosexuals.\n\nPsychiatrist and lawyer Richard Green was co-counsel for Curran.\n\n"}
{"id": "55114493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55114493", "title": "Emoji domain", "text": "Emoji domain\n\nAn emoji domain is a domain name with emoji in it, for example codice_1.\n\nFor an emoji domain to work, it must be converted into so-called \"Punycode\". Punycode is a character encoding method used for internationalized domain names (IDNs). This representation is used when registering domains containing special characters. The ASCII representation starts with the prefix \"xn--\" and is followed by the emoji-containing domain name encoded as Punycode, for example \"xn--i-7iq\".\n\nEach emoji has a unique Punycode representation. For example, \"😉\" in an IDN is represented as \"xn--n28h\". There are several generators on the Internet that allow one to convert emoji to Punycode and back.\n\nThe availability of emoji domains is limited. , there are eight top-level domains for which registration is possible, all of which are ccTLDs: .cf, .fm, .ga, .gq, .ml, .tk, .to, and .ws. \n\nThe registration of an emoji domain can be more difficult than with normal domain names using only ASCII characters, since it is sometimes not possible to enter emoji into the online registration forms of domain name registrars, and instead the Punycode representation must be entered.\n\nThe first three emoji domains were created on April 19, 2001: ♨️.com (xn--j6h.com), ♨️.net (xn--j6h.net) and ☮️.com (xn--v4h.com). Cabel Sasser of Panic created 💩.la (xn--ls8h.la), \"The World's First Emoji Domain\", on April 13, 2011. In February 2015, Coca-Cola used a domain name containing a smiley emoji in an advertising campaign aimed at mobile users in Puerto Rico.\n\nAs of 2018, there are approximately 25,000 emoji domains registered on the .ws TLD.\n\nOn March 29, 2018, .fm (Micronesia) began allowing registration of emoji domains.\n\nSupport among domain name registrars for emoji domains is limited. \n\nAnother problem is that emojis can look different depending on the operating system, applications, and fonts used. Not all browsers support emoji domains. On Google Chrome and Firefox, emoji display as Punycode in the address bar. In Safari, on the other hand, emoji are visible in the address bar. Emoji domains also display as such in Google and Bing search results.\n\nThere are also issues with using emoji domains in social media. While they are well supported on Twitter and LinkedIn, Facebook and Instagram impose serious restrictions. Messaging platforms are a mixed bag.\n\nAt present, only Punycode encoding is supported in e-mail domains, as in \"mail@xn--n28h.tld\".\n\nEmoji subdomains are like normal subdomains, except that they begin with emoji. Emoji subdomains are possible with many popular TLDs, including .com. As with any other emoji domain, emoji subdomains have to be converted into Punycode and can then be used as regular subdomains. Thus, domain combinations like 👍.website.tld (xn--yp8h.website.tld) are possible. This allows a wide scope of emoji domains outside of ccTLDs.\n"}
{"id": "58632079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58632079", "title": "Encyclopedia of Forensic and Legal Medicine 2nd Edition", "text": "Encyclopedia of Forensic and Legal Medicine 2nd Edition\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Forensic and Legal Medicine 2nd Edition is a reference source and pioneering 4 set encyclopedia of forensics and medico-legal knowledge published by Academic Press, Elsevier in 2016. This has been edited by the renowned British forensic specialist Jason Payne-James and Australian forensic pathologist Roger W. Byard and an international editorial board. \nThis reference work includes more than 300 articles contributed by forensic medicine and forensic science experts from all over the world. The encyclopedia is a complete reference source of articles covering from forensics, criminal investigations, health-care, legal, judicial, ballistics, toxicology,fingerprinting, DNA typing, disaster victim identification to autopsy and postmortem examination.\n\nThe encyclopedia is especially meant for forensic, medical, chemistry, physics, laboratory technologists and anthropology students and specialists such as forensic experts, lawyers, judicial officers, judges, police and investigating offices, nurses, medical officers etc. All the articles of the encyclopedia are available through Science direct and Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "43404738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43404738", "title": "Field v Fitton", "text": "Field v Fitton\n\nField v Fitton [1988] 1 NZLR 482 is a cited New Zealand case regarding privity of contract.\n\nThe Fields were trustees of an estate that had a property for sale. In 1987, they entered into a sale agreement with Brent Paulin, with the buyer being referred to in the sales agreement \"Brent Paulin or nominee\". It was done this way, as Mr Paulin thought he could onsell this property to a 3rd party for a profit before the settlement date. Within 2 days, Fitton came along, who purchased Paulin's right to purchase for $15,000.\n\nHowever, when Fitton's solicitor informed the trustees that he was now the nominee for the purchase, they refused to deal with them directly, as they were worried that by dealing with a nominee, rather than Paulin, they might be liable for 2 separate amounts of stamp duty. The trustee's continued to deal with Paulin directly, however as Paulin had sold his interest, he ignored their requests to continue with the sale process, resulting in no settlement on settlement day. As a result, the vendors cancelled the sale.\n\nMr Fitton, not happy with this development, sued the trustees, challenging the cancellation, claiming that under sections 4 and 8 of the Contracts (Privity) Act, he had all the legal rights to the sales agreement that Paulin had.\n\nSection 4 required a nominee to be \"designated by name, description or reference to a class\", and here this requirement was not met, as \"or nominee\" was not specific enough, as all that base nominated was a \"bare nominee\".\n\nBisson J stated \"It is difficult to treat a bare nominee not designated by name, as a person identified by description or as being within a designated class of persons. The nominee could be anyone at all. In the context of 4 designated means specified or identified so that if the nominee is not named, the word nominee in the contract should be qualified by the addition of a descriptive phase or the addition of the particular class within which the nominee falls so as to specify or identify the nominee in the manner required by s 4\"\n\nThis meant that the Contracts (Privity) Act did not apply here. But the legal argument was moot, as due to the fact that neither Paulin or Fitton settled the sale on the date of settlement, the trustees were able to cancel the sale contract anyway.\n"}
{"id": "16649431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16649431", "title": "Fire Brats", "text": "Fire Brats\n\nFire Brats is a series of children's books about two teenagers, Matt and Dani, who both survive post apocalyptic World War 3. The books were written by Barbara Siegel, Scott Siegel and Barbara Steiner. The first book, \"The Burning Land\", was published in 1987. \n\nFire Brats is a series set in the aftermath of World War 3, it follows the struggles of two teenagers Matt and Dani to escape a nuclear-bombed city and find a new life. \n\nMatt and Dani scarcely know one another when World War 3 happens. They meet each other in a theater basement, where they live on junk food and suffer a mild form of radiation sickness. When an earthquake destroys the building over their heads a month later, they dig their way out to find themselves threatened by a gang of escaped convicts. They escape to head for California, where Matt hopes to find the rest of his family still alive.\n\nMatt and Dani cross a hugeriver on a raft, and are taken in by a kindly old survivalist who teaches them various useful techniques and helps them destroy a pack of bandits.\n\nAs a dust storm strikes, Matt and Dani struggle to survive. They eventually reach the shelter of Thunder Mountain, but it isn't really the safe refuge they need.\n\nAs nuclear autumn persists, Matt and Dani foil a band of slave-trading bikers and save Denver from flooding caused by a lake which was formed by the bombing.\n\nOne of the issues that has irked many readers of this series was that there was never any resolution. The first four books build up the characters, who are trying to get to California, have these characters face much adversity, and then leave them stranded with book four. The reason for there not being any fifth book is still unknown.\n\nThis series of books was very popular amongst adolescent readers, many of whom remember the series fondly, but still, all this time later, long to know the fate of Matt and Dani.\n\n"}
{"id": "18932705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18932705", "title": "GrandView (software)", "text": "GrandView (software)\n\nGrandView is an outlining and personal information management (PIM) application originally developed by Living Videotext. Living Videotext was acquired by Symantec in 1987. Grandview was sold until the early 1990s and is no longer supported by Symantec.\nIt closely resembled PC-Outline, an outliner for IBM PCs of the 1980s. Grandview was derived from the same software.\n\n\"BYTE\" in 1989 listed GrandView as among the \"Distinction\" winners of the BYTE Awards, stating that it was \"packed with goodies\" and worth the time necessary to learn how to use it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5703085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5703085", "title": "Harry Dickson", "text": "Harry Dickson\n\nHarry Dickson is a fictional pulp detective, born in America, educated in London, and was called \"The American Sherlock Holmes\". He has appeared in almost 200 pulp magazines published in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and France.\n\nThe original pulp dime-novel series that later became \"Harry Dickson\" began in Germany in January 1907 under the title of \"Detektiv Sherlock Holmes und seine weltberühmten Abenteuer\" (Sherlock Holmes' Most Famous Cases), published by \"Verlagshaus für Volksliteratur und Kunst\", and comprised 230 issues in total, published until June 1911. The name \"Sherlock Holmes\" was actually used for the first 10 issues. After some concern about the rights of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the series was retitled \"Aus dem Geheimakten des Weltdetektivs\" (The Secret Files of the King of Detectives) with No. 11, even though the main character was still called \"Sherlock Holmes\" inside. Holmes' \"Doctor Watson\" sidekick, however, was a younger man named \"Harry Taxon\".\n\nSixteen issues of the original German series were adapted into French starting in October 1907 by publisher Fernand Laven for the magazine \"La Nouvelle Populaire\" under the title \"Les Dossiers Secrets de Sherlock Holmes\" (Sherlock Holmes' Secret Files) for No. 1, immediately changed to \"Les Dossiers Secrets du Roi des Détectives\" (The Secret Files of the King of Detectives) with issue No. 2.\n\nIn December 1927, the Dutch-Flemish publisher Roman-Boek-en-Kunsthandel launched a Dutch translation of the original German series, this time entitled \"Harry Dickson de Amerikaansche Sherlock Holmes\" (Harry Dickson, the American Sherlock Holmes).\n\nThe name \"Harry Dickson\" may have been inspired by that of Harry Taxon (from the German edition above), or by writer Arnould Galopin's \"Allan Dickson, the King of Australian Detectives\" which had been created in the early 1900s. Allan Dickson even met Sherlock Holmes in \"L'Homme au Complet Gris\" (The Man in Grey) (1912).\n\nThe Dutch series lasted 180 issues, until May 1935. In it, Dickson's young assistant was renamed Tom Wills\n\nIn 1928, Belgian publisher Hip Janssens asked writer Jean Ray to translate the Dutch series into French, for distribution in Belgium and France. The French-language edition, also entitled \"Harry Dickson, le Sherlock Holmes Americain\", began in January 1929.\n\nEventually, Ray became tired of translating the mediocre original stories. Using the titles and the covers from the original pre-World War I German edition (by artist Alfred Roloff, a member of the Berlin Academy) as starting points, he began to write his own stories. The French edition lasted 178 issues, until April 1938.\n\nThe adventures of Harry Dickson and his young assistant, Tom Wills, have delighted several generations of French readers. Because they were written by a master of horror fiction, they are far more fantasy-oriented than the true Holmesian canon. The best and most fondly remembered \"Harry Dickson\" stories are those that pit the Great Detective against some supervillains such as Professor Flax, the mad scientist known as the Human Monster, and, later, his daughter, the equally deadly Georgette Cuvelier, a.k.a. The Spider (with whom Dickson had a love-hate relationship); Euryale Ellis, a beautiful woman who had the power to turn her victims into stone and who may be a reincarnation of the legendary gorgon Medusa; Gurrhu, a living Aztec god who hid in the Temple of Iron, an underground temple located beneath the very heart of London, filled with scientifically advanced devices; the last, living Babylonian mummies who found refuge under a Scottish lake; a nefarious blood-drinking serial killer dubbed the Vampire with Red Eyes; the enigmatic, tuxedo-suited avenger known as Cric-Croc, the Walking Dead; the supervillain Mysteras, who relies on elaborate and deadly illusions; the bloodthirsty Hindu god Hanuman, etc.\n\n\"Harry Dickson\"'s fame in France rivals that of \"Sherlock Holmes\" and \"Arsène Lupin\".\n\nBased on various clues mentioned in the series, Harry Dickson was likely born circa 1890 in New York City. He was educated from childhood in England, because his father wanted him to receive a British education. He only spent three months during his summer holidays in New York where, as a child, he befriended Reginald Marlow.\n\nDickson’s family background is unknown, but we know that Arsène Lupin studied magic with a stage magician named Dickson in Paris in 1893.\n\nAt age 15, Dickson was a student in England at the Pertwee Private School and solved a case involving a diamond smuggling ring. At age 20 or about, Dickson enrolled as a student at the University of South Kensington in London and became acquainted with Jean Ray’s armchair detective Mister Triggs. He also helped fellow French student Antoine de Hautefeuille solve a family mystery.\n\nCoincidentally, Arnould Galopin began recording the adventures of a young detective named Allan Dickson also in 1910 although Galopin’s Dickson is said to be Australian.\n\nIn 1919, Dickson was on an official intelligence mission in post-war Berlin. There, he met the brilliant Professor Krausse, whom he much impressed. Dickson met Krausse again, ten years later, i.e.: in 1929, when he was already an established detective at 221B Baker Street. This supports the motion that Dickson’s published cases take place from the mid-1920s to the mid- or late 1930s when he was in his late thirties and early forties, which is consistent with his physical description and abilities.\n\n\nJean Ray's exact contribution to the \"Harry Dickson\" series is impossible to determine accurately, but all experts agree that he wrote or substantially rewrote all issues written from 1933 onward, and a number of issues published in 1932.\nThere has been done substantial research bij the Vriendenkring Jean Ray / L'Amicale Jean Ray, who are re-publishing all Harry Dicksons written by Jean Ray in facsimile.\n\nEpisodes 81, 93 and 163 were translated into English by Jean-Marc Lofficier & Randy Lofficier and collected in \"Harry Dickson: The Heir of Dracula\" (2009) Black Coat Press, \n\n\nFree adaptations written by Christian Vanderhaeghe; drawn by Pascal J. Zanon.\n\nNew stories written by Richard Nolane; drawn by Olivier Roman.\n\nFilmmaker Alain Resnais tried, unsuccessfully, to get a live-action Harry Dickson feature off the ground in the 1960s. The script has been published in a book title \"Les aventures de Harry Dickson, scénario pour un film (non-réalisé) par Alain Resnais de Frédéric Towarnicki\" - Capricci Editions - Paris décembre 2007\n\n"}
{"id": "42536207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42536207", "title": "John F. Germany Public Library", "text": "John F. Germany Public Library\n\nJohn F. Germany Public Library is the flagship library of the Tampa-Hillsborough County Public Library System (THPL), as well as a member of the Hillsborough County Public Library Cooperative, and a member of the Tampa Bay Library Consortium.\n\nLocated in Downtown Tampa, Florida, the 150,000 sq. ft. library acts as the central reference and resource center for THPL, as well as the local library branch. John F. Germany Library is the largest in the THPL System and houses several special collections.\n\nThe library features a creative space known as The HIVE and has various special collections including a Florida History collection, Genealogy Collection, and some 15,000 Burgert Brothers photographs.\n\nIn 1912, the City of Tampa received a grant from the Carnegie Foundation to start development on a building for a main Tampa library on Seventh Avenue. Architect Fred J. James designed the building, and the physical work was completed on the facility on June 30, 1915. However, opening of the facility was delayed for two years due to funding constraints. On April 17, 1917, the Tampa Public Library opened to the public with a collection of 3,800 books.\n\nThe Carnegie building on Seventh Avenue served as the main library’s building until the need for a larger building became a necessity with the increase of population in Tampa to 400,000 people. The Tampa City Council, along with community aid, began plans for a new building. The new building, located less than one mile away from the original Carnegie building, began in 1965 and is still in use today.\n\nThe new Tampa Public Library opened to the public on April 21, 1968. Designed by architectural firms McLane, Ranon, McIntosh & Bernardo, and McElvy & Jennewein, the new facility was 100,000 sq. ft. and held more than 500,000 books. Nine years later, a 50,000 sq. ft. addition to the original building was built. Designed by architectural firm McElvy, Jennewein, Stefany & Howard, the new addition was connected to the original building by an elevated glass walkway. This addition was dedicated on May 23, 1976.\n\nThe Tampa Public Library was renamed on November 1, 1999, to the John F. Germany Public Library in honor of library supporter, civic leader, and former judge, John F. Germany. In February 2015, former John F. Germany Public Library Chief Director Andrew S. Breidenbaugh was named director of the Tampa-Hillsborough County Public Library System.\n\nOpened to the public on November 15, 2014, The HIVE is a 10,000 sq. ft. public community innovation center and Makerspace located on the third floor of the West Building of the John F. Germany Public Library.\n\nUPDATE: In the beginning of 2018, the building that connects the William F. Poe Parking Garage to the Germany Library was closed and given back to the city of Tampa. The HIVE makerspace is now inside the Germany Library. It is located to the right of the building's main entrance on Ashley Drive. \n\nThe HIVE features bookable spaces and equipment and offers innovative, creative programs and open learning labs for the public. Activities and services offered in The HIVE emphasize creating, creativity, and collaboration. Spaces in The HIVE include the Media:scape, the Makerspace, the Robotics Center, the Arts Center, the Recording Studio, and the Flexspace.\n\n\nGuests must have a valid Tampa-Hillsborough County Public Library System card to schedule use of bookable spaces and equipment. However, anyone is welcome to attend programs and events scheduled in The HIVE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10354398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10354398", "title": "Lawrence Henry Yaw Ofosu-Appiah", "text": "Lawrence Henry Yaw Ofosu-Appiah\n\nLawrence Henry Yaw Ofosu-Appiah (18 March 1920 – 1 June 1990) was a Ghanaian academic who taught classics at the University of Ghana and was subsequently Director of the \"Encyclopedia Africana\".\n\nOfosu-Appiah was born in a village called Kukua near Adawso in the Eastern Region of Ghana. His parents were Seth Fianko — a teacher and a descendant of the royal family of Kubease, Larteh, Ghana — and Agnes Fianko (née Reynolds) — also a teacher and a descendant of the royal family of Akropong, Akwapim, Ghana.\nHis education started at Adawso Presbyterian Primary School. In January 1932, he joined Achimota Secondary School for his secondary education. In 1939, he began his career as a Latin and Twi teacher at Achimota School. In January 1942, he joined the Junior Staff Department. He was appointed to work as an Assistant Librarian. He went on to work as an Assistant Museum Curator.\n\nIn March 1944, the Achimota Council awarded him a scholarship to Oxford University, United Kingdom, and he was accepted at Hertford College. He was the first black African to come to Oxford to study Classics. He read Honour Moderations followed by Literae Humaniores.\n\nHe went to Jesus College, Cambridge, United Kingdom, in October 1948 to complete a diploma in Anthropology. Shortly after that, he was appointed Assistant Lecturer in Classics at the University College, Gold Coast, now University of Ghana.\n\nOfosu-Appiah was the first African to be appointed to the Classics Department of the University College, Gold Coast, now University of Ghana. He taught the first year Intermediate Arts class Latin. In April 1951, he took his Master of Arts Degree and ceased to be a Junior Member of Oxford University from that date.\n\nIn 1954, he had the honour of composing, in Latin, the inscription that was unveiled at the official opening of Akuafo Hall in 1955. In July 1954, he married Victoria Boohemaa Addo from Akropong, Akwapim. They had three daughters: Asantewa, Oseiwa and Asabea.\n\nIn April 1959, he was promoted to a Senior Lectureship in Classics. He was then appointed Senior Tutor in Akuafo Hall and presented his first students for graduation to the Duke of Edinburgh at the Great Hall of the University. He was chosen to represent the University of Ghana at the inauguration of the University Institute in Mogadishu in January 1960.\n\nOfosu-Appiah was elected a Fellow of the Ghana Academy of Learning in 1961. He was subsequently elected to the Standing Committee of the Ghana Academy of Sciences for 1963-64. In October 1961, he was appointed as a government representative to the West African Examination Council. In 1962, he was appointed to the Interim Council of the University of Cape Coast to represent the Arts Faculty. Also in 1962, he was elected master of Akuafo Hall, University of Ghana, Legon. He was the first African master of the hall and the installation was done by Professor Adu Boahen, the Senior Tutor at the time. Ofosu-Appiah was also elected Chairman of the Board for University Primary School, Legon, in 1964.\n\nOfosu-Appiah was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship and the post of Visiting Professor of Classics at Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire, United States, for the academic year 1964-65. He was the first black person to join the faculty. He taught Latin and Greek and also helped the English Department by teaching English Literature.\n\nHe was offered the distinguished scholar’s chair for 1965-66: \"The Edgar B. Stern University Professor\", at Dillard University, New Orleans, Louisiana. He accepted the post and was assigned to the Division of Humanities, where he taught Philosophy and Literature.\n\nOfosu-Appiah accepted the position of Director of the Encyclopedia Africana Project in Accra in August 1966. This was a project inspired by W. E. B. Du Bois. He met with the then Director of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", Sir William Hailley, who advised that the biographies would make sense only if they had a historical introduction and to have several volumes of country to country biographies.\n\nThe first volume of the \"Encyclopaedia Africana Dictionary of Biographies\", \"Ethiopia-Ghana\", was published in June 1977. This was followed by the second volume, \"Sierra Leone-Zaire\", in December 1979.\n\nOfosu-Appiah was appointed the Chairman of the Ghana Library Board in March 1967. In 1969, he opened the Bolgatanga Library. In 1970, when asked by the government of the Second Republic to continue as the Chairman, he created a new Ghana Library Board Act, which was implemented in June 1970.\n\nHe was appointed a member of the National Advisory Committee of the National Liberation Council from 1967 to 1968. He was also appointed a member of the Committee on Imprisoned Political Offenders. In September 1967, he was appointed a member of the Board of Directors of the Ghana Airways Corporation until April 1969.\n\nAfter the inauguration of the Second Republic took place in 1969, he was offered the Chairmanship of the Ghana State Housing Corporation. He was also elected to the National Executive of the Progress Party in 1970 and subsequently appointed the Chairman of a Committee on the Winneba Training College. His terms of reference included suggestions for the improvement of higher education.\n\nOfosu-Appiah chaired a committee set up in 1967 to establish lectures in memory of J.B. Danquah. The lectures began in February 1968. Ofosu-Appiah delivered the anniversary lectures in 1969, as well as the eighth series of lectures in 1975 on the subject: \"Joseph Ephraim Casely Hayford: The Man of Vision and Faith.\" This lecture was published in 1976.\n\nIn October 1968, he won a seat on the board of the Ghanaian Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). He then went on to be elected the Honorary Secretary of the Ghana Academy of Sciences (GAS).\n\nIn 1962, Ofosu-Appiah translated Homer's \"Odyssey\" into Twi, and it was used as a set book by the Ministry of Education of Ghana. He wrote \"People in Bondage\", which was published in the United States by Lerner Publishing Group, and \"Slavery: A Brief Survey\", which was published in Ghana by Waterville.\n\nIn 1969, he completed \"The Life and Times of J. B. Danquah\", ensuring that the part Danquah played in Gold Coast politics would not be forgotten. This was eventually published in August 1974. 1970 saw the start of yet another book: \"The Life of Lt. General Emmanuel Kwasi Kotoka\". This book was published in 1972. At the suggestion of James Moxon, Ofosu-Appiah wrote the book \"The Life of Dr. J. E. K. Aggrey\". This was published by Waterville just in time for the 100th Anniversary Celebration of the birth of Aggrey in 1975.\n\nIn 1975, Ofosu-Appiah tried unsuccessfully to get a Twi Language and Literature Research Unit established. He did, however, succeed in acquiring funding for his Twi translation of Plato's \"Apology\". He also translated Sophocles's \"Antigone\" for Waterville to publish. He was helped by Rev. E. K. Kwabbi, D. O. Kwapong, and E. T. Koramoa to achieve this goal.\n\nAgain in 1975, Ofosu-Appiah began writing an English-Twi dictionary with the help of Mr E. O. Koranteng, who was, at the time, on the staff of the University of Ghana Language Centre. Ofosu-Appiah attempted to publish this dictionary in 1985 but could not find any publishers interested at the time. He also wrote an article for the \"Conspectus of the World Encyclopaedia of Black Peoples of the World\" that was published by Scholarly Press in September 1975.\nOfosu-Appiah died on 1 June 1990, at the Luton & Dunstable Hospital, Bedfordshire, United Kingdom. He was buried at the Vale Cemetery, Butterfield Green, Luton, on 11 June 1990. His wife died on 12 May 2012 in Ghana and her ashes were brought to the Vale Cemetery for interment as she requested, being buried in his grave on 21 June 2012. He is survived by his two daughters Asantewa and Asabea.\n\n"}
{"id": "8375279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8375279", "title": "Lindon v. First National Bank", "text": "Lindon v. First National Bank\n\nLindon v. First National Bank, 10 F. 894 (W.D. Pa. 1882), is one of the very earliest precedent-setting US federal court cases involving common law name change.\n\nA woman who had changed her last name to one that was not her husband's original surname was trying to claim control over her inheritance. The court ruled in her favor, \"At common law a man may change his name, and he is bound by any contract into which he may enter in his adopted or reputed name, and by his known and recognized name he may sue and be sued.\" This set forth many things. By common law, one may lawfully change their name and be \"known and recognized\" by that new name. Also, one may enter into any kinds of contracts in their new adopted name. Contracts include employment (see \"Coppage v. Kansas\" 236 U.S. 1). And one can be recognized legally in court in their new name.\n"}
{"id": "42081458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42081458", "title": "List of Canadian English dictionaries", "text": "List of Canadian English dictionaries\n\nList of Canadian English dictionaries:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21333387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21333387", "title": "List of mass spectrometry acronyms", "text": "List of mass spectrometry acronyms\n\nThis is a compilation of initialisms and acronyms commonly used in mass spectrometry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "407289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407289", "title": "McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science &amp; Technology", "text": "McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science &amp; Technology\n\nThe McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science & Technology is \nan English-language multivolume encyclopedia, specifically focused on scientific and technical subjects, and published by McGraw-Hill Education. The most recent edition in print is the eleventh edition, copyright 2012 (), comprising twenty volumes. The encyclopedia covers the life sciences and physical sciences, as well as engineering and technology topics. The content is also available via a subscription to McGraw-Hill Education's website.\n\nThere is also a one-volume \"McGraw-Hill Concise Encyclopedia of Science and Technology\" based on the full set. The sixth edition was published in May 2009 in twenty volumes including the \"Index\" ().\n\n"}
{"id": "251997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251997", "title": "Oxford Classical Dictionary", "text": "Oxford Classical Dictionary\n\nThe Oxford Classical Dictionary (OCD) is generally considered \"the best one-volume dictionary on antiquity,\" an encyclopedic work in English consisting of articles relating to classical antiquity and its civilizations. It was first published in 1949 (\"OCD\" or \"OCD\"), edited by Max Cary with the assistance of H. J. Rose, H. P. Harvey, and Alexander Souter. A second edition followed in 1970 (\"OCD\"), edited by Nicholas G. L. Hammond and H. H. Scullard, and a third edition in 1996 (\"OCD\"), edited by Simon Hornblower and Antony Spawforth. A revised third edition was released in 2003, which is nearly identical to the previous third edition. A fourth edition was published in 2012 (\"OCD\"), edited by Simon Hornblower, Antony Spawforth, and Esther Eidinow. In 2016, a fully digital edition (\"OCD\") launched online, edited by Sander Goldberg (2013–2017) and Tim Whitmarsh (2018–present). Continuously updated on a monthly basis, this edition incorporates all 6,300 entries from \"OCD\" (which are being updated on a rolling basis) as well as newly commissioned entries, and features multimedia content and freely accessible maps of the ancient world.\n\nThe \"OCD\"'s over 6,400 non-blind articles cover everything from the daily life of the ancient Greeks and Romans to their geography, religion, and their historical figures.\n\nThe fourth edition and the third revised edition of the \"OCD\" are available online for members of subscribed institutions and for subscribed individuals via Oxford Reference. The third edition (1996) was also available on CD-ROM, but it is partially incompatible with more recent versions of Windows and has not been revised or re-released.\n\nThe new digital edition is accessible online to institutional and individual subscribers via the \"Oxford Research Encyclopedias\". Entry extracts/summaries and select full-length entries are freely available to non-subscribing individuals.\n\nThe \"Oxford Companion to Classical Civilization\" (\"OCCC\"), part of the Oxford Companions series of Oxford University Press, is an independent publication consisting of a selection of articles from the \"OCD\", with accompanying illustrations. The first edition was published in 1998 (\"OCCC\" or \"OCCC\"), edited by Simon Hornblower and Antony Spawforth, and contains over 600 articles selected from the \"OCD\". A paperback edition was issued in 2004. The current second edition was published in 2014 (\"OCCC\"), edited by Simon Hornblower, Antony Spawforth, and Esther Eidinow, and contains over 700 articles selected from the \"OCD\".\n\nNational Latin Exam\n\nA copy of the \"OCD\" has traditionally been offered by the National Latin Exam as a prize for students who obtain four consecutive ascending gold medals on the exam.\n\nOxford Classical Dictionary\n\nOxford Companion to Classical Civilization\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29019541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29019541", "title": "Pippo (airplane)", "text": "Pippo (airplane)\n\nPippo was a mythical plane, unique to Northern Italy, that flew during World War II. An example of oral history, Pippo is not well documented even in Italy.\n\nPippo had a distinctive buzz, was rarely if ever seen and flew mainly at night. If people were faithful to the Fascists, they considered it an Allied plane. If people were supporters of the Allies, it was thought to be a Luftwaffe or Italian Air Force aircraft. No matter what their political allegiances, people personified it as a “he” – the plane and the pilot as one. It is suspected that the Italian government used Pippo as a propaganda tool to turn ordinary civilians against the Allies, though there is no doubt the plane was real.\n\nIt is unclear how Pippo got its name. It may have been a play on the Italian moniker for Disney’s Goofy character or alternatively was based on the pip-pip sounds it apparently made. \n\nDespite the unthreatening name, people mainly interpreted Pippo as something fearful. Superstition held that one had to block the lights in one’s house or Pippo might fire upon it. It was said to drop exploding pens, poisoned candy, or so-called butterfly bombs and to fire on farm workers in fields.\n\nOnly decades later did historians surmise the likely origin of the plane. When the Allies gained a foothold in Italy in the later years of the war, pilots began flying tactical night missions to survey and intervene in German troop movements. It never occurred to them that they were inadvertently terrorizing the countryside. In particular, the Royal Air Force used a plane called the de Havilland Mosquito.\n\n"}
{"id": "58200550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58200550", "title": "Sonata Primitive", "text": "Sonata Primitive\n\nSonata Primitive is a copper 1940–1948 sculpture by Saul L. Baizerman, installed in the San Diego Museum of Art's May S. Marcy Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of California.\n\n"}
{"id": "22202586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22202586", "title": "Stroop Report", "text": "Stroop Report\n\nThe Stroop Report is an official report prepared by General Jürgen Stroop for the SS chief Heinrich Himmler, recounting the German suppression of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising and the liquidation of the ghetto in the spring of 1943. Originally titled The Jewish Quarter of Warsaw is No More! (ger. \"Es gibt keinen jüdischen Wohnbezirk in Warschau mehr!\"), it is commonly referred to as \"The Stroop Report\". It was published in the 1960s.\n\nThe Report was commissioned by Friedrich-Wilhelm Krüger, chief of the SS and police in Kraków and was intended as a souvenir album for Heinrich Himmler. It was prepared in three distinct leather-bound copies for Himmler, Friedrich Krueger and Jürgen Stroop, with one unbound \"file\" copy of the report (\"das Konzept\") remaining in Warsaw, in the care of Chief of Staff Max Jesuiter. According to a statement given in 1945 by Stroop's adjutant Karl Kaleshke to US authorities in Wiesbaden, he ordered Stroop's copy of the report burnt with other secret documents in Burg Kranzberg.\n\nAfter the war only two of the four copies were discovered, those belonging to Himmler and Jesuiter. Himmler's copy went to Seventh Army Intelligence Center (SAIC) and Jesuiter's to Military Intelligence Research Section (MIRS) in London. Several sources stated that the German Bundesarchiv also had a copy in Koblenz. However, in reply to inquiries by Richard Raskin, the Bundesarchiv stated that the third copy of report was never in their possession. Both copies were introduced as evidence at the International Military Tribunal in Nuremberg, sharing the document number 1061-PS, and used in the trial as \"US Exhibit 275\". It was first displayed by the chief U.S. prosecutor Robert H. Jackson for the judges during his opening address. The assistant prosecutor dealing with the persecution of the Jews referred to it as \"the finest example of ornate German craftsmanship, leather bound, profusely illustrated, typed on heavy bond paper ... the almost unbelievable recital of the proud accomplishment by Major General of Police Stroop\". Both copies were also used in Nuremberg in the 1947 trial of Oswald Pohl as exhibit 503.\n\nOn June 10, 1948, the Himmler/SAIC copy of the Stroop report and Katzmann Report were handed over by Fred Niebergal, head of Office of Chief of Counsel for War Crimes – OCCWC, to Bernard Acht, head of the Polish Military Mission in Nuremberg. It was used in Stroop's trial at Warsaw Criminal District Court in July 1951, and transferred afterwards to the KC PZPR archive. In 1952 it was transferred to the \"Główna Komisja Badania Zbrodni Hitlerowskich w Polsce\" (Main Commission for the Investigation of Nazi Crimes in Poland) archive and subsequently to its successor the Institute of National Remembrance (Polish: \"Instytut Pamięci Narodowej\" or IPN) where it remains. In 1948 the Jesuiter/MIRS copy of the report went to the National Archives (NARA) in Washington, D.C., where it remains.\n\nIn 2017, the Stroop Report was submitted by Poland and included in UNESCO's Memory of the World Register.\n\nThe Report was a 125-page typed document, bound in black pebble leather, with 53 photographs. It consisted of the following sections: \n\nThere are slight discrepancies in textual and graphical layout, and in the photographs they contain.\n\nThe Stroop Report alludes repeatedly to the participation of the Polish Resistance in the Warsaw ghetto uprising. Stroop referred to Polish underground fighters as Polnische Banditen - \"Polish Bandits\", and noted:\n\nThe IPN copy of the report has 53 photographs on 49 pages, while the NARA copy has the same number of photographs on 52 pages. 37 photographs appear in both copies, although not always with the same size, crop or order and occasionally with different captions. Sixteen shots in each copy are different, although often very similar as they depict the same events. Altogether, in both versions of the report there are 69 unique photographs.\n\nThe identity of the photographers who accompanied Stroop's headquarters during the operation is unknown. Franz Konrad confessed to taking some of the photographs; the rest were probably taken by photographers from \"Propaganda Kompanie nr 689\". In addition to the photographs found in the reports there were about 45 additional photographs that were not included which according to Yad Vashem were found in Stroop's possession when he was captured by the Americans after the war. Some of those photographs were closely related to those used in the report as they depicted the same events. Many of those additional photographs are described in reputable sources as coming from the Stroop Report, even if they do not appear in either of the surviving copies.\n\nThe high-quality photographs taken for Stroop constitute a unique documentation of the final stage of liquidation of the Warsaw ghetto. The photographer was permitted access to Stroop's inner circle, to accompany the forces that participated in liquidating the ghetto, and to get close to the combat areas. Apart from a dozen candid photographs taken by Polish firefighter Leszek Grzywaczewski, those are the only photographs of the Ghetto Uprising taken inside the ghetto. Some of them became highly recognized images of World War II and the Shoah.\n\nPhotographic captions in the Report are often highly racist and contain few facts about their content, but are a good reflection of the mindset of the report's authors. They are written in the German Sütterlin script, and in some cases do not match the images. Many of the places, people and events depicted were identified in the years after the report's publication.\n\nPhotographs included in one of the two copies of the Stroop Report. Image captions include a reference and translation of the original German caption (in red) followed by current photo caption. Click on images for more information.\nStroop Collection of related Ghetto Uprising photographs:\n\n"}
{"id": "37662880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37662880", "title": "The Chanticleer (yearbook)", "text": "The Chanticleer (yearbook)\n\nThe Chanticleer is Duke University’s undergraduate yearbook. It was founded while the institution was still Trinity College in 1911, and was first published in 1912. The yearbook has kept the same title each year, with the exception of 1918 and 1919. Because of World War I, there was no issue in 1918, and in 1919 the yearbook was titled \"The Victory\" to mark the war’s end.\n\nThe origin of the title \"Chanticleer\" is not verified, but there are a few theories. Chanticleer is the name of the rooster in the Nun’s Priest Tale of the \"Canterbury Tales\". One possibility is that the yearbook was named in response to a campus theater production of the \"Canterbury Tales\" in 1911. Another theater production popular at the time was titled \"Chantecler: A Play in Four Acts\", which may have inspired the title. The rooster may have been a mascot at Trinity at the time, possibly because of the presence of chickens on campus. The rooster was also a symbol for an announcement in the early 1900s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12246670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12246670", "title": "The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World", "text": "The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World\n\nThe Clements Checklist of Birds of the World is a book by Jim Clements which presents a list of the bird species of the world.\n\nThe most recent printed version is the sixth edition (2007), which was published by Cornell University Press. Previous editions were published by the author's own imprint, Ibis Publishing. The Cornell Lab of Ornithology has provided annual updates since then, usually in August, and the most recent version is available online in several formats. These updates reflect the ongoing changes to bird taxonomy based on published research.\n\n\"Clements\" is the official list used by the American Birding Association for birds globally. eBird also uses the \"Clements\" checklist as the base list for its eBird taxonomy, which in addition to species includes hybrids and other non-species entities reported by birders.\n\n"}
{"id": "913305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=913305", "title": "The French Chef", "text": "The French Chef\n\nThe French Chef is a television cooking show created and hosted by Julia Child, produced and broadcast by WGBH, the public television station in Boston, Massachusetts, from February 2, 1963 to January 14, 1973. It was one of the first cooking shows on American television.\n\nThe show grew out of a special presentation Child gave on WGBH based on the book \"Mastering the Art of French Cooking\" which she co-authored. \"The French Chef\" was produced from 1963 to 1973 by WGBH for National Educational Television (and later for PBS). Reruns continued on PBS until 1989, and were airing on Cooking Channel as of 2010. As of September 2016, episodes were being rerun on the new Canadian cooking channel Gusto. As recent as March, 2017, reruns of the show were also seen on the American Public Television Create channel.\n\n\"The French Chef\" introduced French cooking to the United States at a time when it was considered expensive restaurant fare, not suitable for home cooking. Child emphasized fresh and, at the time, unusual ingredients. All of the recipes used on \"The French Chef\" had originally appeared in \"Mastering the Art of French Cooking,\" but for the show, Child chose mostly the more domestic recipes from the book, although such showpieces as Beef Wellington, various sorts of soufflé, and some ambitious pastries also made it into the mix if they seemed within the reach of a home cook without staff.\n\nThe show was done live-to-videotape from start to finish, leaving little room for mistakes. The resulting occasional accidents became a popular trademark of Child's on air presence, used as \"teachable moments\" to encourage viewers to relax about the task's demands.\n\nCertain elements became \"motifs\": Julia's fondness for wine; her distinctive voice; her staunch defense of the use of butter (with margarine invariably referred to as \"that other spread\") and cream; her standard issue \"impeccably clean towel\"; and her closing line at the end of every show: \"This is Julia Child, Bon appétit!\"\n\nWhen the show began, the budget was so low that \"volunteers had to be recruited to wash dishes, and the food sometimes had to be auctioned to the audience afterwards to cover expenses.\"\n\nIn 1964 Child received a Peabody Award, crediting her for doing \"more than show us how good cooking is achieved; by her delightful demonstrations she has brought the pleasures of good living into many American homes.\" In May 1966, her show won a Primetime Emmy Award for Achievements in Educational Television – Individuals.\n\nThe August 27, 1968 episode of \"The French Chef\" (rerun from an episode sometime in 1965) ended with the unexpected collapse of an Apple Charlotte.\n\nThe October 31, 1971 episode of \"The French Chef\" (on its ninth anniversary) was the first U.S. television show to be captioned for deaf viewers.\n\nThe show was produced by Ruth Lockwood and directed by Russell Morash, Russell Fortier, David Griffiths and David B. Atwood. Film composer John Morris wrote the 2nd theme song of The French Chef.\n\nAs part of its growing Twitch Creative content, Twitch.tv streamed every episode of \"The French Chef\" over a four-day period starting on March 15, 2016, to launch its new food channel. Twitch reported that almost a million viewers watched the marathon.\n\nTwo companion cookbooks were written along with the show. \"The French Chef Cookbook\" was a show-by-show breakdown of the black and white series, while \"From Julia Child's Kitchen\" was a somewhat more ambitious work that was based on the color series but also added considerable extra material.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1222285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1222285", "title": "The Simpsons Archive", "text": "The Simpsons Archive\n\nThe Simpsons Archive, also known by its previous domain name snpp.com or simply SNPP (named for the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant), is a Simpsons fan site that has been online since 1994. Maintained by dozens of volunteers from—amongst other places—the newsgroup alt.tv.simpsons and \"Simpsons\"-related forums, the site features information on every aspect of the show, from detailed guides to upcoming episodes and merchandise, to the episode capsules (text files documenting freeze frame jokes, quotes, scene summaries, reviews and the like), for which the site is well known. In a bid to steer clear of Fox's legal department after a conflict in 1996, the site contains no multimedia or interactive features, preferring to focus on documenting the show through textual material. As of October, 2005, the site receives roughly 1.2 million hits per month. In 2013, it was moved from snpp.com (which has now expired) to simpsonsarchive.com.\n\nThe Archive began in 1994, the brainchild of Gary Goldberg, with extensive help from the members of alt.tv.simpsons at the time, including Raymond Chen, the first to compile the episode capsules, and Dave Hall, one of the first online Simpsons fans to champion list-compiling. The site, originally based on the Widener archive set up by Brendan Kehoe in 1989, featured a bright yellow and black design until 1998, when it was revamped to the more subdued style.\n\n\nIn addition to this, the site offers a search facility and an \"About the Archive\" page which allows you to contact any of the various maintainers and check which new pages and episode capsules have been added since your last visit.\n\nThe site has been featured in many publications, including the UK magazine \"WebUser\", in which the site ranked #3 in their list of the \"Top 100 TV Websites\" back in 2002, and several unofficial \"Simpsons\" books including the analytical \"Planet Simpson\" by Chris Turner and the UK-issued episode guides \"The Pocket Essentials: The Simpsons\" by Peter Mann and \"I Can't Believe It's A Bigger, Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\" by Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood. In \"Planet Simpson\", Turner thanks the Simpsons Archive, saying that the book would have been impossible without it.\n\nMatt Groening, creator of the show, was once quoted in the Argentinian newspaper \"La Nación\" as saying: \"Sometimes we have to look at fan sites to remember [what we have done before]: one of the best is www.snpp.com. I have no idea what those initials mean, but it has a lot of stuff. Though for them, every episode is the worst ever.\" Reviews from the site's episode capsules have also been mentioned in the DVD commentaries by various members of the show's staff.\n\nIn 2007, it was ranked number five on \"Entertainment Weekly\"'s list of \"25 essential fansites\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35948401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35948401", "title": "The Supper of the Lamb", "text": "The Supper of the Lamb\n\nThe Supper of the Lamb is a food book by Robert Farrar Capon. It was first published in 1969, and has been republished several times. It has been included in the Modern Library Food series.\n\nCapon was an Episcopal priest, and Lauren Winner describes this book as \"part cookbook, part theological meditation – something like M. F. K. Fisher meets the desert fathers.\" Frederick Buechner described it as transcending category: \"To call \"The Supper of the Lamb\" a cookbook would be like calling \"Moby Dick\" a whaling manual.\"\n\nThe title is an allusion to the \"marriage supper of the Lamb\" depicted in the 19th chapter of the Book of Revelation, as well as a recipe for \"Lamb for eight persons four times\", which forms the basis for most of the book's discussions.\n\nThe book is not a cookbook in the strictest sense - it covers a wide variety of theological topics in between segments on cooking. A reader must read a good deal of the book in order to make the flagship recipe.\n"}
{"id": "11923328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11923328", "title": "The Walking Man", "text": "The Walking Man\n\nThe Walking Man () is a bronze sculpture by the French sculptor Auguste Rodin. It was created by Rodin during 1877 and 1878.\n\nThe best example of Rodin’s ‘sketchy’ impressionist sculpture also happens to be his most well-known ‘incomplete’ figure. This work personifies the latter part of Rodin’s career: the dynamic pose of a partial figure. Deriving much from Rodin’s earlier work \"St. John the Baptist Preaching\", including the powerful stance, Rodin had stripped all academic associations from his figure, and instead focused on what he considered essential: the dynamic pose.\n\nAccording to the bibliography supplied by the National Gallery of Art, \"The Walking Man\" is a version of St. John without head and arms. This sculpture was previously considered a preliminary study for the complete Baptist and was based on the movement of that piece. According to Albert Elsen and Henry Moore's suggestions, \"The Walking Man\" was created for the purpose of a Roman or Greek art without any live reference.\n\nThe art historian Leo Steinberg said of \"The Walking Man\"’s pose: \nThe stance is profoundly unclassical, especially in the digging-in conveyed by the pigeon-toed stride and the rotation of the upper torso. Unlike the balanced, self-possessed classical posture with both feet turned out, Rodin uses the kind of step that brings all power to bear on the moment’s work\nThe statue has served as the inspiration for the works of other artists, such as Carl Sandburg, who described it in his 1916 poem, \"The Walking Man of Rodin\": \nTHE WALKING MAN OF RODIN\nLegs hold a torso away from the earth.\nAnd a regular high poem of legs is here.\nPowers of bone and cord raise a belly and lungs\nOut of ooze and over the loam where eyes look and ears hear\nAnd arms have a chance to hammer and shoot and run motors.\nYou make us\nProud of our legs, old man.\n\nAnd you left off the head here,\nThe skull found always crumbling neighbor of the ankles. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23947154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23947154", "title": "Thomson Reuters Business Classification", "text": "Thomson Reuters Business Classification\n\nThe Thomson Reuters Business Classification (TRBC) is an industry classification of global companies; it is owned and operated by Thomson Reuters and is also the basis for Thomson Reuters Indices.\n\nTRBC covers over 70,000 public companies from 130 countries and provides over 10 years of classification history. The classification consists of five levels of hierarchical structure. Each company is allocated an Industry, which falls under an Industry group, then Business Sector, which is then part of an overall economic sector. TRBC consists of 10 economic sectors, 28 business sectors, 54 industry groups, 143 industries and 837 Activities.\n\nThe top four levels are as follows:\nTRBC is a market-based classification schema, similar to the GICS and ICB systems. These classify companies on the basis of degree of impact on markets, rather than establishment-based classification systems such as the North American Industry Classification System(NAICS).\n\nTRBC is used primarily in the Financial Investment and Advisory space, where investors identify and select groups of comparable companies and look at trends. More specifically, this could be Investment Managers allocating funds and benchmarking their portfolios; Investment Bankers highlighting acquisition targets and opportunities for financial restructuring, or more generally corporates performing competitive analysis of their peers in the marketplace.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1387667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1387667", "title": "Tower Hill", "text": "Tower Hill\n\nTower Hill is a complex city or garden square northwest of the Tower of London, in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets just outside the City of London boundary yet inside what remains of the London Wall — a large fragment of which survives toward its east.\n\nIt was an extra-parochial area with moniker Great Tower Hill. For centuries it hosted public executions, particularly of attainted peers and today it is notable for being the site of the Tower Hill Memorial in its Trinity Square Gardens which are adjoined by its two smaller public gardens, Wakefield and Tower Gardens. The latter are lined by a web of pavements which cut short Trinity Square, rendering it a curved park-lined street.\n\nThe set of gardens and buildings surrounding are served by Tower Gateway DLR and Tower Hill tube stations. The street Tower Hill forms an edge of the congestion charging zone between Byward Street in the west and a junction with Minories and Tower Hill Terrace in the east.\n\nIn one of the oldest parts of London, archaeological evidence shows that there was a settlement on the hill in the Bronze Age and much later a Roman village that was burnt down during the Boudica uprising. A nearby church, All Hallows-by-the-Tower, is known for fragments of Romanesque architecture dating back to 680; the church itself dates from 675.\n\nGreat Tower Hill was an extra-parochial area within the Tower Liberty, under the direct administrative control of the Tower of London and outside the jurisdiction of the City of London and the county of Middlesex. In 1855 the area became part of the district of the Metropolitan Board of Works. \n\nThe \"District of Tower\" became part of the Whitechapel District, under the authority of the Whitechapel District Board of Works. This was ambiguous and The Great Tower Hill Act 1869 was required to explicitly interpret it as Old Tower Without, including within it Great Tower Hill. The Tower Liberty was abolished in 1894 and incorporated into the County of London.\n\nPublic executions of high-profile traitors and criminals were often carried out on Tower Hill, including:\n"}
{"id": "142799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142799", "title": "Web directory", "text": "Web directory\n\nA web directory or link directory is an online list or catalog of websites. That is, it is a directory on the World Wide Web of (all or part of) the World Wide Web. Historically, directories typically listed entries on people or businesses, and their contact information; such directories are still in use today. A web directory includes entries about websites, including links to those websites, organized into categories and subcategories. Besides a link, each entry may include the title of the website, and a description of its contents. In most web directories, the entries are about whole websites, rather than individual pages within them (called \"deep links\"). Websites are often limited to inclusion in only a few categories. \n\nThere are two ways to find information on the Web: by searching or browsing. Web directories provide links in a structured list to make browsing easier. Many web directories combine searching and browsing by providing a search engine to search the directory. Unlike search engines, which base results on a database of entries gathered automatically by web crawler, most web directories are built manually by human editors. Many web directories allow site owners to submit their site for inclusion, and have editors review submissions for fitness.\n\nWeb directories may be general in scope, or limited to particular subjects or fields. Entries may be listed for free, or by paid submission (meaning the site owner must pay to have his or her website listed).\n\nRSS directories are similar to web directories, but contain collections of RSS feeds, instead of links to web sites.\n\nDuring the early development of the web, there was a list of webservers edited by Tim Berners-Lee and hosted on the CERN webserver. One historical snapshot from 1992 remains. He also created the World Wide Web Virtual Library, which is the oldest web directory.\n\nMost of the directories are general in scope and list websites across a wide range of categories, regions and languages. But some niche directories focus on restricted regions, single languages, or specialist sectors. One type of niche directory with a large number of sites in existence is the shopping directory. Shopping directories specialize in the listing of retail e-commerce sites.\n\nExamples of well-known general web directories are Yahoo! Directory (shut down at the end of 2014) and DMOZ (shut down on March 14, 2017). DMOZ was significant due to its extensive categorization and large number of listings and its free availability for use by other directories and search engines.\n\nHowever, a debate over the quality of directories and databases still continues, as search engines use ODP's content without real integration, and some experiment using clustering.\n\nThere have been many attempts to make building web directories easier, such as using automated submission of related links by script, or any number of available PHP portals and programs. Recently, social software techniques have spawned new efforts of categorization, with Amazon.com adding tagging to their product pages.\n\nDirectories have various features in their listings, often depending upon the price paid for inclusion:\n\nA human-edited directory is created and maintained by editors who add links based on the policies particular to that directory.\nHuman-edited directories are often targeted by SEOs on the basis that links from reputable sources will improve rankings in the major search engines. Some directories may prevent search engines from rating a displayed link by using redirects, nofollow attributes, or other techniques. Many human-edited directories, including DMOZ, World Wide Web Virtual Library, Business.com and Jasmine Directory, are edited by volunteers, who are often experts in particular categories. These directories are sometimes criticized due to long delays in approving submissions, or for rigid organizational structures and disputes among volunteer editors.\n\nIn response to these criticisms, some volunteer-edited directories have adopted wiki technology, to allow broader community participation in editing the directory (at the risk of introducing lower-quality, less objective entries).\n\nAnother direction taken by some web directories is the paid for inclusion model. This method enables the directory to offer timely inclusion for submissions and generally fewer listings as a result of the paid model. They often offer additional listing options to further enhance listings, including features listings and additional links to inner pages of the listed website. These options typically have an additional fee associated but offer significant help and visibility to sites and/or their inside pages.\n\nToday submission of websites to web directories is considered a common SEO (search engine optimization) technique to get back-links for the submitted website. One distinctive feature of 'directory submission' is that it cannot be fully automated like search engine submissions. Manual directory submission is a tedious and time-consuming job and is often outsourced by webmasters.\n\nBid for Position directories, also known as bidding web directories, are paid-for-inclusion web directories where the listings of websites in the directory are ordered according to their bid amount. They are special in that the more a person pays, the higher up the list of websites in the directory they go. With the higher listing, the website becomes more visible and increases the chances that visitors who browse the directory will click on the listing.\n\n"}
{"id": "30549017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30549017", "title": "William Habraken", "text": "William Habraken\n\nWilliam (Boy) Habraken is a shoe collector who resides in the Netherlands. His collection is housed in the SONS Museum in Kruishouten, Belgium. In 2006 the Guinness Book of World Records recognized him as having the largest ethnographical shoe collection in the world.\n\nWilliam (Boy) Habraken was born at the end of World War II in Eindhoven, The Netherlands. At the age of twenty he separated from his father's shoe-business and started his own import/wholesale company in footwear. In 1970 he moved to Taiwan to become one of the first people to export shoes from there and China to Europe. He stood at the base of some of the largest footwear concerns in Europe. Extensive business travel brought him all over the world, visiting over 120 countries. On many of those trips and in his spare time he collected footwear which was part of traditional indigenous clothing. As important as the shoes themselves were to him, was the related information, such as; the materials used, the way of making, the use, the age and the name in the native language.\n\nStarting with his first pair in 1968, he acquired a unique collection of over 3400 pairs of shoes out of about 155 countries, states and territories. There are exceptional specimens of North-American Indians, Arctic Inuit, African tribes, Berber, Bedouin, Mongols, the Ottoman - and the pre-Inca empires. Extensive parts of the collection originate in Japan, India, Iran, Tibet and Pakistan. Europe is represented from Iceland to Russia and from Lapland to Spain. The collection has a broad range of footwear. Examples are Kadaichi shoes made of emu feathers and human hair (used by Australian native executioners). Beautiful bride-shoes from Afghanistan, India, Syria and Turkey. As a native of the Netherlands he of course also collected many wooden shoes.\nNext to the ethnographic collection, William Habraken also collected a comprehensive collection of unique pieces of well known shoe designers from around the world. The collection comprises amongst others rare designs of 20th century designers such as André Perugia and Salvatore Ferragamo, and from contemporary designers such as Christian Louboutin and Manolo Blahnik.\n\nHis ethnographical collection served as a basis for his influential book \"Tribal and Ethnic Footwear of The World\", which tells stories of footwear around the world. \n\nIn his quest to unearth every possible detail of his collection and the history of each pair, he pondered the question of who wore the first pair of shoes. This question resulted in his second book with the title \"Did the Gods Wear Shoes\". \n\nIn the book \"Did the Gods wear shoes\" the author explored the possible existence of prior civilizations. In his sequel \"They who came before us\" he provides the basis for that possibility. The book focuses on prehistoric mason works around the world. The author uses many detailed pictures along with personal observations to establish an alternative to mainstream historical believes.\n\nHe holds lectures on a regular basis, a notable example occurred on March 14, 2016 when he was invited to give a lecture in The British Museum in London titled: \"A long journey: my footwear collection from the Islamic world\"\n\nIn January 2017 he was invited to design the layout for an exhibition titled \"Human Migration\" in the peristilium of the Federal Government building in Brussels Belgium. He used shoes of his collection as a symbol to illustrate the road migrants followed in past and presence. This unique exhibition was honoured by a visit of Jean-Claude Junker, President of the European Commission. \n\nOn December 12, 2013 the Schoenen en Lederwaren Sociëteit de Langstraat (SeLL) (Shoe and Leather Society Langstraat) announced that Mr. Habraken was the winner of The Golden Cow.\nJury chairman Ellis French said \"The jury admired the innovative and dynamic entrepreneurship of Mr. Habraken. As one of the first people he successfully pioneered shoes in the Far East. His vision has adapted to the ever-changing landscape of the industry. Along with that there is the passion with which he collects ethnic footwear from around the world, the associated stories recorded in books and the more than 2000 pairs he exhibits in a private museum, are all reasons why he deserves The Golden Cow! \"\n"}
{"id": "34723442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34723442", "title": "Woutherus Mol", "text": "Woutherus Mol\n\nWoutherus Mol (21 March 1785 in Haarlem – 30 August 1857 in Haarlem), was a 19th-century painter and drawer from the Netherlands.\n\nOnce Mol chose to make a living out of painting, he was tutored by the Haarlem painter Hermanus van Brussel. In 1802 he became a member of the Haarlem drawing society \"Tekengenootschap Kunstmin en Vlijt\". After he got excited about the Paris Art Museum where many master pieces resided, he obtained permission from his parents and moved there in 1806, provided with recommendations for the floral painter Gerard van Spaendonck who taught at the institute in Paris. But since Mol showed much more interest in historical paintings, he took lessons from Jacques-Louis David (the famous historical painter who also taught there) and in 1807 he was awarded the Dutch Prix de Rome from King Louis Napoleon of Holland and received a scholarship as \"Hollandsch Kweekeling\" (Hollandic pupil) to study and work in Paris. Since one of the requirements for this scholarship was that he would send in some of his work to exhibitions, his painting of the Holy Family (after Raphael) was exhibited in 1810 in the Amsterdam art exhibition. In Paris he built up a life as a painter and he never used the scholarship to actually visit and study in Rome.\n\nAfter the restoration of the Netherlands in 1813, he returned to his home town Haarlem where he further developed his talent by studying the Dutch masters, for which the Amsterdam museum offered him plenty of opportunity. In 1818 he made his name with his submission to the Amsterdam art exhibition named \"The Death of Prince William I\", based on the only known portrait taken of Prince William I on his deathbed (surrounded by his family and important figures of the time) by Christiaen Jansz van Bieselingen. This was his first submission that was truly original and not mainly a copy of an existing masterpiece. \n\nAlready during the exhibition the painting was popular, and 1000 guilders was offered for it. This painting was finally purchased by the mother of the king for 1800 florins to give as a present to her daughter-in-law. Due mostly to this success, he became an honorary member of the Royal Academy of Brussels (Koninklijke Academie voor Schone Kunsten te Brussel). Even though he submitted multiple portraits during that very exhibition, this excellent work also caused rumors about his (lack of) portraiture abilities since it was not entirely by his own hand. In 1826 he was admitted as member of the Koninklijk Instituut as a correspondent in the fourth class.\n\nHis later works were considered to be of inferior quality, and public opinion turned against him, though his friends continued to encourage him. Woutherus Mol had a nervous breakdown, and in 1846, he entered the \"Rooms-Katholieke Wees- en armenhuis\" (the Catholic alsmhouse, or Diaconie, which building is currently in use as police station) in Haarlem, where he died in 1857. During this last decade of his life he no longer painted. The Teylers Museum in Haarlem has one of his works, entitled \"Sleeping boy\". He is known for interiors and genre scenes.\n\n"}
