{"id": "55196155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55196155", "title": "2017 Benue State flooding", "text": "2017 Benue State flooding\n\nThe 2017 Benue State flooding took place in September 2017 in Central Nigeria. It displaced 100,000 people, and damaged around 2,000 homes. Flooding in the area is common due to heavy rains and the Benue River, which runs through the area. \n"}
{"id": "57137998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57137998", "title": "2018 Big South Conference Softball Tournament", "text": "2018 Big South Conference Softball Tournament\n\nThe 2018 Big South Conference Softball Tournament was held at Radford University's Radford Softball Stadium from May 9 through May 12, 2018. As in the previous year, the tournament was a six-team field. Liberty won their third ever title, and received an automatic bid to the 2018 NCAA Division I Softball Tournament.\n\nThe top two seeds, Liberty and Longwood, had byes to the second round. Teams were seeded by record within the conference, with a tiebreaker system to seed teams with identical conference records. \n"}
{"id": "20444491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20444491", "title": "ASPCA Humane Law Enforcement Division", "text": "ASPCA Humane Law Enforcement Division\n\nThe ASPCA Humane Law Enforcement Division (colloquially, \"ASPCA Law Enforcement\") was the law enforcement arm of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) from 1866 until 2013, when the law enforcement division was disbanded. The agency enforced animal-related laws, and investigated cases of animal cruelty.\n\nThe American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) was incorporated in 1866 by a special state legislation to prevent animal cruelty through various programs including animal adoption services, animal education programs and an armed law enforcement division.\n\nThe Humane Law Enforcement Division was a branch of the ASPCA staffed by 20 armed New York State peace officers who responded to reports of animal cruelty in marked ASPCA patrol cars in the New York City area as well as perform undercover operations. The officers were empowered through NYS Criminal Procedure Law and NY Agriculture and Markets laws to investigate allegations of animal abuse, seize animals being abused, and make arrests for the prosecution for animal cruelty.\n\nIn 2000, the ASPCA Humane Law Enforcement Division received 33,000 calls for service which resulted in 55 arrests, 30 summonses being issued, and 537 animal seizures.\n\nIn December 2013, the president of the ASPCA stated that the Law Enforcement Division would be disbanding and the enforcement of humane laws and response to calls for animal abuse and cruelty would become the responsibility of the NYPD. By early January 2014, half of the officers of the division had been terminated. The reason given for disbanding was that the NYPD was better equipped and had more manpower to handle enforcement of humane laws and to respond to calls for animal abuse/cruelty. Response to the disbanding has been mixed, with some saying the NYPD can do a better job, while others say the NYPD has other, higher-priority situations to handle and the response to animal abuse and cruelty will be slow.\n\n\nIn 2007, the ASPCA created an animal cruelty crime scene investigation unit. The CSI unit uses a Ford E-450 vehicle equipped with a surgery area for injured animals, evidence processing, documentation, and storage equipment. The van is staffed with a forensic veterinarian to help document evidence to aid in the prosecution of perpetrators. Although the vehicle is used primarily in New York City, it can be deployed to any area of the United States at the request of a law enforcement agency. The Crime Scene Investigation unit was not affected by the disbandment of the Law Enforcement Division and remains active.\n\nASPCA Humane Law Enforcement officers received peace officer training in addition to investigator training and firearms training. In 1999, ASPCA Humane Law Enforcement recruits began attending a specialized investigator training course through the New York City Police academy.\n\nASPCA Humane Law Enforcement officers were equipped with either a Glock 19 9mm or a Smith & Wesson 5906 9mm handgun, pepper spray, ASP baton, and handcuffs.\n\nTheir squad cars were primarily Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptors, in addition to vans, and SUVs.\n\nThey carried poles and cages for seizures and catches.\n\nThere were five titles (referred to as ranks) in the ASPCA Humane Law Enforcement Division:\n\nOne former ASPCA Humane Law Enforcement officer is known to have died in the line of duty. The death occurred after the disbandment of the agency and was due to a duty related illness rather than a direct result of carrying out the duties of the position.\n\n"}
{"id": "4459716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4459716", "title": "Akitu", "text": "Akitu\n\nAkitu or Akitum (Sumerian: , \"akiti-šekinku\", ,  \"the barley-cutting\", \"akiti-šununum\",  \"barley-sowing\"; Akkadian: ' or ', \"head of the year\") was a spring festival in ancient Mesopotamia.The Babylonian Akitu festival has played a pivotal role in the development of theories of religion, myth and ritual, yet the purpose of the festival remains a point of contention among both historians of religion and Assyriologists.\n\nThe name is from the Sumerian for \"barley\", originally marking two festivals celebrating the beginning of each of the two half-years of the Sumerian calendar, marking the sowing of barley in autumn and the cutting of barley in spring. In Babylonian religion it came to be dedicated to Marduk's victory over Tiamat.\n\nThe Babylonian festival traditionally started on 1 Nisannu. All the people in the city would celebrate, including the awilu (upper class), muskena (middle class), wardu (lower class), High Priest, and the King\n\nThe priest of Ésagila (Marduk’s house) would recite sad prayers with the other priests and the people would answer with equally sad prayers which expressed humanity's fear of the unknown. This fear of the unknown explains why the high priest would head to the Ésagila every day asking for Marduk's forgiveness, begging him to protect Babylon, his holy city, and asking him to have favor on the city. This prayer was called \"The Secret Of Ésagila\". It reads as followed: \"Lord without peer in thy wrath,\nLord, gracious king, lord of the lands,\nWho made salvation for the great gods,\nLord, who throwest down the strong by his glance,\nLord of kings, light of men, who dost apportion destinies,\nO Lord, Babylon is thy seat, Borsippa thy crown\nThe wide heavens are thy body...\nWithin thine arms thou takest the strong...\nWithin thy glance thou grantest them grace,\nMakest them see light so that they proclaim thy power.\nLord of the lands, light of the Igigi, who pronnouncest blessings;\nWho would not proclaim thy, yea, thy power?\nWould not speak of thy majesty, praise thy dominion?\nLord of the lands, who livest in Eudul, who takest the fallen by the hand;\nHave pity upon thy city, Babylon\nTurn thy face towards Esagila, thy temple\nGive freedom to them that dwell in Babylon, thy wards!\" On the third day special craftsmen would create two puppets made of wood, gold, and precious stones and dress them in red. These puppets were set aside and would be used on the sixth day\n\nThe same rituals would be followed as in the previous three days. Before the sunrise the priests looked for the sacred star group IKU (“Field”). During the day the Epic of Creation \"Enuma Elish\" would be recited. The Enuma Elish, is most likely the oldest story concerning the birth of the gods and the creation of the universe and human beings. It then explains how all the gods united in the god Marduk, following his victory over Tiamat. The recitation of this Epic was considered the beginning of preparations for the submission of the King of Babylon before Marduk on the fifth day of Akitu. During the night a drama was performed that praised Marduk as well.\n\nThe submission of the king of Babylon before Marduk. The king would enter to the Esagila accompanied by the priests, they would approach all together the altar where the high priest of the Esagila impersonates Marduk then he approaches the king, begins to strip him of his jewelry, scepter and even his crown then he would slap him hard while the altar would kneel and begins to pray asking for Marduk's forgiveness and submitting to him saying: \"I have not sinned O Lord of the universe, and I haven't neglected your heavenly might at all\"... Then the priest in the role of Marduk says: \"Don't be afraid of what Marduk has to say, for he will hear your prayers, extends your power, and increases the greatness of your reign\". The removal of all worldly possessions is a symbol of the submission the king gives to Marduk. After this the king would stand up and the priest would give him back his jewelry, scepter and crown then slaps him hard again hoping for the king to shed tears, because that would express more the submission to Marduk and respect to his power. When the priest returns the crown to the king that means his power was renewed by Marduk, thus April would be considered not only the revival of nature and life but also to the State as well. Thus, these ceremonies would make the greatest and most feared personalities of that time submit to the greatest god, and live a humbling moment with all the population, sharing prayers to prove their faith before the might of God. Following his presence in his earthly home Babylon and renewing its king's power, god Marduk stays in the Etemenanki (a ziggurat or tower composed of seven floors, known in the Torah as the Tower of Babylon) where was Marduk's dwelling or in the temple Esagila (in the Torah God would dwell on a \"mountain\" Psalms 74:2). During this day according to the tradition of Akitu, Marduk would enter his dwelling and is surprised by the evil gods who will fight him, then he's taken prisoner by Tiamat, the chaos monster and goddess of the ocean, and awaits for arrival of his son god Nabu who would save him from \"Nought\" and restore his glory.\n\nBefore the gods arrived, the day would be filled with commotion. The puppets that were made on the third day would be burned and mock battle would be taking place as well. This commotion signified that without Marduk, the city would be in constant chaos. The arrival of God Nabu in boats accompanied by his assistants of brave Gods coming from Nippur, Uruk, Kish, and Eridu (cities ancient Babylonia). The Gods accompanying Nabu would be represented by statues which would be mounted on boats made especially for the occasion. Here the people in huge numbers would begin their walk behind their king towards the Esagila where Marduk is held prisoner, chanting the following :\"Here's he who's coming from far to restore the glory of our imprisoned father\".\n\nOn the third day of his imprisonment Nabu frees Marduk. The evil gods had closed a huge gate behind him when he entered his dwelling. Marduk would be fighting till Nabu's arrival, when he would break in the huge gate and a battle would go on between the two groups, until Nabu comes out victorious and frees Marduk.\n\nWhen Marduk is set free, the statues of the gods are gathered in the Destinies Hall \"Ubshu-Ukkina\", to deliberate his destiny, there it is decided to join all the forces of the gods and bestow them upon Marduk. Here, the king implores all the gods to support and honor Marduk, and this tradition was an indication that Marduk received submission from all the gods and was unique in his position.\n\nThe victory procession to the \"House of Akitu\" where Marduk's victory in the beginning of Creation over the dragon Tiamat (goddess of the nether waters) is celebrated. The House of Akitu which the Assyrians of Nineveh called \"Bet Ekribi\" (“House of Prayers” in old Assyrian language), was about 200 meters outside the city's walls, where there were wonderful trees decorated and watered carefully out of respect to the god who's considered the one to grant nature its life. The victory procession was the population's way to express its joy at Marduk's (Ashur) renewal of power and the destruction of evil forces which almost controlled life in the beginning.\n\nArriving at \"Bet Akitu\", god Marduk begins to celebrate with both the upper and nether world gods (the statues of gods were arranged around a huge table such as in a feast) then Marduk returns to the city at night celebrating his marriage to goddess \"Ishtar\" where earth and heaven are united, and as the gods unite so is this union arranged on earth. Thus the king personifies this union by playing the role of marrying the highest priestess of the Esagila where they would both sit at the throne before the population and they recite special poems for the occasion. This love is going to bring forth life in spring.\n\nThe gods return accompanied by their Lord Marduk to meet again in the Destinies Hall \"Upshu Ukkina\", where they met for the first time on the eighth day, this time they will decide the fate of the people of Marduk. In ancient Assyrian philosophy Creation in general was considered as a covenant between heaven and earth as long as a human serves the gods till his death, therefore, gods' happiness isn't complete except if humans are happy as well, thus a human's destiny will be to be given happiness on the condition that he serves the gods. So Marduk and the gods renew their covenant with Babylon, by promising the city another cycle of seasons. After the fate of mankind is decided, Marduk returns to the heavens.\n\nThe last day of Akitu. The gods return to Marduk's temple (the statues are returned to the temple) and daily life resumes in Babylon, Nineveh, and the rest of the Assyrian cities. The people begin to plow and prepare for another cycle of seasons.\n\nThe festival was also adopted in Iron Age Assyria, following the destruction of Babylon.\nKing Sennacherib in 683 BC built an \"Akitu house\" outside the walls of Assur. Another \"Akitu house\" was built outside Nineveh. The Akitu festival was continued throughout the Seleucid period and into the Roman Empire period. At the beginning of the 3rd century, it was still celebrated in Emessa, Syria, in honour of the god Elagabal.\nRoman Emperor Elagabalus (r. 218-222), who was of Syrian origin, even introduced the festival in Italy (Herodian, \"Roman History\", 5.6). Iranians traditionally celebrate 21 March as \"Noruz\" (\"New Day\").\nKha b-Nissan is the name of the spring festival among the Assyrians.\nThe festival is celebrated on April 1, corresponding to the start of the Assyrian calendar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20080355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20080355", "title": "Ann Nixon Cooper", "text": "Ann Nixon Cooper\n\nAnn Louise Nixon Cooper (January 9, 1902 – December 21, 2009) was a centenarian mentioned in United States President-elect Barack Obama's November 2008 election speech as a representative of the change in status African-Americans had undergone during the past century and more in America. Before that, she was a noted member of the Atlanta African-American community and an activist for civil rights.\n\nCooper was born in Shelbyville, Tennessee, on January 9, 1902, and raised in Nashville. She moved to Atlanta, Georgia, in her early-twenties with her husband, Albert Berry Cooper, a dentist, and they had four children together. During that time, she served more than fifty years in public work on the board of Gate City Nursery Association and also helped found the Girls Club for African-American Youth. Because there were no integrated Boy Scout troops in 1930s Atlanta, she wrote to the Boy Scouts in New York for help in starting Troop 95, Atlanta's first Boy Scout troop for African-Americans. When her husband died, Martin Luther King, Jr. sent Cooper a telegram; she also met with Coretta Scott King and saved photographs of the occasion. Cooper first registered to vote on September 1, 1941. Although she was friends with elite Black Atlantans like W. E. B. Du Bois, John Hope Franklin and Benjamin Mays, she did not exercise her right to vote for years, because of her status as a black woman in a segregated and sexist society.\n\nDuring the 1970s, she served as a tutor to non-readers at Ebenezer Baptist Church. She also served on the Friends of the Library Board, serving at one time as vice president of the board. In 1980, she received a Community Service Award from Channel 11 for being one of the organizers of the black Cub Scouts and serving as the first den mother for three and a half years.\n\nShe was also awarded the Annie L. McPheeters Medallion for community service from the Auburn Avenue Research Library on African American Culture and History in 2002.\n\nWhen featured in Obama's 2008 speech, Cooper was 106 years old. Some news outlets erroneously reported her as \"oldest voter\" even though there were several older voters, including then-114-year-old Gertrude Baines, 113-year-old Beatrice Farve, 112-year-olds Maggie Renfro and George Francis, 110-year-olds Virginia Call and Onie Ponder, and 109-year-olds Nettie Whittington and Amanda Jones (all voted for Obama); and 112-year-olds Eunice Sanborn, Besse Cooper, and Walter Breuning (all indicated they likely voted for McCain) and 109-year-old Gertrude Noone (who voted for McCain).\n\nCooper died on December 21, 2009, three weeks before what would have been her 108th birthday.\n\nCensus research suggests she may have been a year younger than claimed; the 1910 U.S. Census lists her as seven years old in April 1910. Given a January birthdate, this suggests that she was born in 1903.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8961317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8961317", "title": "Assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand", "text": "Assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand\n\nThe assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, occurred on 28 June 1914 in Sarajevo when they were mortally wounded by Gavrilo Princip. Princip was one of a group of six assassins (five Serbs and one Bosniak) coordinated by Danilo Ilić, a Bosnian Serb and a member of the Black Hand secret society. The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary's South Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Yugoslavia. The assassins' motives were consistent with the movement that later became known as Young Bosnia. The assassination led directly to the First World War when Austria-Hungary subsequently issued an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia, which was partially rejected. Austria-Hungary then declared war, triggering actions leading to war between most European states.\n\nIn charge of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević, his right-hand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and the spy Rade Malobabić. Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols and trained them. The assassins were given access to the same clandestine network of safe-houses and agents that Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.\n\nThe assassins, the key members of the clandestine network, and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished. Those who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914. The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators. Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and related records.\n\nUnder the 1878 Treaty of Berlin, Austria-Hungary received the mandate to occupy and administer the Ottoman Vilayet of Bosnia, while the Ottoman Empire retained official sovereignty. Under this same treaty, the Great Powers (Austria-Hungary, the United Kingdom, France, the German Empire, Italy, and the Russian Empire) gave official recognition to the Principality of Serbia as a fully sovereign state, which four years later transformed into a kingdom under Prince Milan IV Obrenović who thus became King Milan I of Serbia. Serbia's monarchs, at the time from the royal House of Obrenović that maintained close relations with Austria-Hungary, were content to reign within the borders set by the treaty.\n\nThis changed in May 1903, when Serbian military officers led by Dragutin Dimitrijević stormed the Serbian Royal Palace. After a fierce battle in the dark, the attackers captured General Laza Petrović, head of the Palace Guard, and forced him to reveal the hiding place of King Alexander I Obrenović and his wife Queen Draga. The King and Queen opened the door from their hiding place. The King was shot thirty times; the Queen eighteen. MacKenzie writes that \"the royal corpses were then stripped and brutally sabred.\" The attackers threw the corpses of King Alexander and Queen Draga out of a palace window, ending any threat that loyalists would mount a counterattack.\" General Petrović was then killed too (Vojislav Tankosić organized the murders of Queen Draga's brothers; Dimitrijević and Tankosić in 1913–1914 figure prominently in the plot to assassinate Franz Ferdinand). The conspirators installed Peter I of the House of Karađorđević as the new king.\n\nThe new dynasty was more nationalist, friendlier to Russia and less friendly to Austria-Hungary. Over the next decade, disputes between Serbia and its neighbors erupted, as Serbia moved to build its power and gradually reclaim its 14th century empire. These conflicts included a customs dispute with Austria-Hungary beginning in 1906 (commonly referred to as the \"Pig War\"); the Bosnian crisis of 1908–1909, in which Serbia assumed an attitude of protest over Austria-Hungary's annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina (ending in Serbian acquiescence without compensation in March 1909); and finally the two Balkan Wars of 1912–1913, in which Serbia conquered Macedonia and Kosovo from the Ottoman Empire and drove out Bulgaria.\nSerbia's military successes and Serbian outrage over the Austro-Hungarian annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina emboldened Serbian nationalists in Serbia and Serbs in Austria-Hungary who chafed under Austro-Hungarian rule and whose nationalist sentiments were stirred by Serb \"cultural\" organizations. In the five years leading up to 1914, lone assassins – mostly Serb citizens of Austria-Hungary – made a series of unsuccessful assassination attempts in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina against Austro-Hungarian officials. The assassins received sporadic support from Serbia.\n\nOn 15 June 1910, Bogdan Žerajić attempted to kill the iron-fisted Governor of Bosnia and Herzegovina, General Marijan Varešanin. Žerajić was a 22-year-old Orthodox Serb from Nevesinje, Herzegovina, who was a student at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb and made frequent trips to Belgrade. (General Verešanin went on to crush the last Bosnian peasant uprising in the second half of 1910). The five bullets Žerajić fired at Varešanin and the fatal bullet he put in his own brain made Žerajić an inspiration to future assassins, including Princip and Princip's accomplice Čabrinović. Princip said that Žerajić \"was my first model. When I was seventeen I passed whole nights at his grave, reflecting on our wretched condition and thinking of him. It is there that I made up my mind sooner or later to perpetrate an outrage.\"\n\nIn 1913, Emperor Franz Joseph commanded Archduke Franz Ferdinand to observe the military maneuvers in Bosnia scheduled for June 1914. Following the maneuvers, Ferdinand and his wife planned to visit Sarajevo to open the state museum in its new premises there. Duchess Sophie, according to their eldest son, Duke Maximilian, accompanied her husband out of fear for his safety.\n\nAs Sophie, although of high aristocratic birth, was not from a dynastic family, her union with the Habsburg heir presumptive could only be a morganatic marriage. Emperor Franz Joseph had only consented to their marriage on the condition that their descendants would never ascend the throne. The 14th anniversary of their marriage fell on 28 June. As historian A. J. P. Taylor observes:\n\nFranz Ferdinand was an advocate of increased federalism and widely believed to favor trialism, under which Austria-Hungary would be reorganized by combining the Slavic lands within the Austro-Hungarian empire into a third crown. A Slavic kingdom could have been a bulwark against Serb irredentism, and Franz Ferdinand was therefore perceived as a threat by those same irredentists. Princip later stated to the court that preventing Franz Ferdinand's planned reforms was one of his motivations.\n\nThe day of the assassination, June 28 (June 15 in the Julian calendar), is the feast of St. Vitus. In Serbia, it is called Vidovdan and commemorates the 1389 Battle of Kosovo against the Ottomans, at which the Sultan was assassinated in his tent by a Serb.\n\nDanilo Ilić was a Bosnian Orthodox Serb. He had worked as a school teacher and as a bank worker but in 1913 and 1914 he lived with, and outwardly off, his mother, who operated a small boarding house in Sarajevo. Secretly, Ilić was leader of the Serbian-irredentist Black Hand cell in Sarajevo. In late 1913, Danilo Ilić came to the Serbian listening post at Užice to speak to the officer in charge, Serbian Colonel C. A. Popović, who was a captain at the time and a member of the Black Hand. Ilić recommended an end to the period of revolutionary organization building and a move to direct action against Austria-Hungary. Popović passed Danilo Ilić on to Belgrade to discuss this matter with Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Colonel Dragutin Dimitrijević, known more commonly as Apis. By 1913, Apis and his fellow military conspirators (drawn heavily from the ranks of the May 1903 coup) had come to dominate what was left of the Black Hand.\n\nThere are no reports as to what took place between Ilić and Apis, but soon after their meeting, Apis's righthand man and fellow Black Hander, Serbian Major Vojislav Tankosić, who by this time was in charge of guerrilla training, called a Serbian irredentist planning meeting in Toulouse, France. Amongst those summoned to the Toulouse meeting was Muhamed Mehmedbašić, a carpenter by trade and son of an impoverished Muslim noble from Herzegovina. He too was a member of the Black Hand, having been sworn into the organization by Black Hand Provincial Director for Bosnia-Herzegovina Vladimir Gacinović and Danilo Ilić. Mehmedbašić was (here quoting Albertini paraphrasing Mehmedbašić) \"eager to carry out an act of terrorism to revive the revolutionary spirit of Bosnia.\" During this January 1914 meeting, various possible Austro-Hungarian targets for assassination were discussed, including Franz Ferdinand. However, the participants decided only to dispatch Mehmed Mehmedbašić to Sarajevo, to kill the Governor of Bosnia, Oskar Potiorek.\n\nWhile Mehmedbašić was travelling to Bosnia-Herzegovina from France, police searched his train for a thief. Thinking the police might be after him, he threw his weapons (a dagger and a bottle of poison) out the train window. Once he arrived in Bosnia-Herzegovina he had to set about looking for replacement weapons.\n\nThe search for new weapons delayed Mehmedbašić's attempt on Potiorek. Before Mehmedbašić was ready to act, Ilić summoned him to Mostar. On 26 March 1914, Ilić informed Mehmedbašić that Belgrade had scrapped the mission to kill the governor. The plan now was to murder Franz Ferdinand, and Mehmedbašić should stand by for the new operation. (Apis confessed to the Serbian Court that he ordered the assassination of Franz Ferdinand in his position as head of the Intelligence Department.) The assassination was planned with the knowledge and approval of the Russian ambassador in Belgrade Nikolai Hartwig and the Russian military attache in Belgrade Viktor Artamonov.\n\nIlić recruited the Serbian youths Vaso Čubrilović and Cvjetko Popović shortly after Easter (Orthodox Easter as given by Dedijer: 19 April 1914), for the assassination, as evidenced by the testimony of Ilić, Čubrilović, and Popović at the Sarajevo trial. Three youths – Gavrilo Princip, Trifko Grabež, and Nedeljko Čabrinović – Bosnian Serb subjects of Austria-Hungary, living in Belgrade, testified at the Sarajevo trial that at about the same time (a little after Easter), they were eager to carry out an assassination and approached a fellow Bosnian Serb and former guerrilla fighter known to be well connected and with access to arms, Milan Ciganović, and through him Major Tankosić and reached an agreement to transport arms to Sarajevo and participate in the assassination.\n\nAgreement in principle was quickly reached, but delivery of the weapons was delayed for more than a month. The assassins would meet with Ciganović and he would put them off. At one point, Ciganović told Grabež: \"Nothing doing, the old Emperor is ill and the Heir Apparent will not go to Bosnia.\" When Emperor Franz Joseph's health recovered the operation was a \"go\" again. Tankosić gave the assassins one FN Model 1910 pistol. They practiced shooting a few rounds of scarce and expensive .380 ACP pistol ammunition in a park near Belgrade.\n\nThe rest of the weapons were finally delivered on 26 May. The three assassins from Belgrade testified that Major Tankosić, directly and through Ciganović, not only provided six hand grenades and four new Browning FN Model 1910 automatic pistols with .380 ACP ammunition, but also money, suicide pills, training, a special map with the location of gendarmes marked, knowledge of contacts on a clandestine tunnel used to infiltrate agents and arms into Austria-Hungary, and a small card authorizing the use of that tunnel. Major Tankosić confirmed to the journalist and historian Luciano Magrini that he provided the bombs and pistols and was responsible for training Princip, Grabež, and Čabrinović and that he (Tankosić) initiated the idea of the suicide pills.\n\nPrincip, Grabež, and Čabrinović left Belgrade by boat on 28 May and traveled along the Sava River to Šabac where they handed the small card to Captain Popović of the Serbian Border Guard. Popović, in turn, provided them with a letter to Serbian Captain Prvanović, and filled out a form with the names of three customs officials whose identities they could assume and thereby receive discounted train tickets for the ride to Loznica, a small border town.\n\nWhen Princip, Grabež, and Čabrinović reached Loznica on 29 May, Captain Prvanović summoned three of his revenue sergeants to discuss the best way to cross the border undetected. While waiting for the sergeants to arrive, Princip and Grabež had a falling out with Čabrinović over Čabrinović's repeated violations of operational security. Čabrinović handed over the weapons he was carrying to Princip and Grabež. Princip told Čabrinović to go alone to Zvornik, make an official crossing there using Grabež's ID card and then go on to Tuzla and link back up.\n\nOn the morning of 30 May Prvanović's revenue sergeants assembled and Sergeant Budivoj Grbić accepted the task and led Princip and Grabež by foot to Isaković's Island, a small island in the middle of the Drina River that separated Serbia from Bosnia. They and their weapons reached the island on 31 May. Grbić passed the terrorists and their weapons to the agents of the Serbian Narodna Odbrana for transport into Austro-Hungarian territory and from safe-house to safe-house. Princip and Grabež crossed into Austria-Hungary on the evening of 1 June. Princip and Grabež and the weapons were passed from agent to agent until on 3 June they arrived in Tuzla. They left the weapons in the hands of the Narodna Odbrana agent Miško Jovanović and rejoined Čabrinović.\n\nThe Narodna Odbrana agents reported their activities to the Narodna Odbrana President, Boža Janković, who in turn reported to the then Serbian Caretaker Prime Minister Nikola Pašić. The report to Pašić added the name of a new military conspirator, Serbian Major Kosta Todorović, Boundary Commissioner and Director of Serbian Military Intelligence Services for the frontier line from Rada to Ljubovija. Pašić's handwritten notes from the briefing (estimated by Dedijer to have taken place on 5 June) included the nickname of one of the assassins (\"Trifko\" Grabež) and also the name of Major Tankosić. The Austrians later captured the report, Pašić's handwritten notes, and additional corroborating documents.\n\nČabrinović's father was a Sarajevo police official. In Tuzla, Čabrinović bumped into one of his father's friends, Sarajevo Police Detective Ivan Vila, and struck up a conversation. By coincidence, Princip, Grabež and Čabrinović boarded the same train for Sarajevo as Detective Vila. Čabrinović inquired of the detective the date of Franz Ferdinand's visit to Sarajevo. The next morning, Čabrinović passed on the news to his fellow assassins that the assassination would be on 28 June.\n\nOn arriving in Sarajevo on 4 June, Princip, Grabež, and Čabrinović went their separate ways. Princip checked in with Ilić, visited his family in Hadžici and returned to Sarajevo on 6 June taking up residence at Ilić's mother's house with Ilić. Grabež joined his family in Pale. Čabrinović moved back into his father's house in Sarajevo.\n\nOn 14 June, Ilić went to Tuzla to bring the weapons to Sarajevo. Miško Jovanović hid the weapons in a large box of sugar. On 15 June, the two went separately by train to Doboj where Jovanović handed off the box to Ilić. Later that day, Ilić returned to Sarajevo by train, being careful to transfer to a local train outside Sarajevo and then quickly transfer to a tram to avoid police detection. Once at his mother's house, Ilić hid the weapons in a suitcase under a sofa. Then, on approximately 17 June, Ilić traveled to Brod (Dedijer puts it on 16 June, but trial records put it on 18 June). Questioned at trial, Ilić gave a confused explanation of the reason for his trip, first saying he had gone to Brod to prevent the assassination and then saying he had returned to Sarajevo from Brod to prevent the assassination. Dedijer puts forward the thesis (citing Bogijević) that Ilić went to Brod to meet an emissary of Apis, Djuro Ŝarac, who had instructions to cancel the assassination and then later Rade Malobabić was dispatched from Serbia to Sarajevo to reauthorize the assassination.\n\nIlić began handing out the weapons on 27 June. Until 27 June Ilić had kept the identities of the assassins from Belgrade secret from those he had recruited locally and vice versa. Then, that night, as Mehmedbašić told Albertini: \"On the eve of the outrage Ilić introduced me to Princip in a Sarajevo café with the words 'Mehmedbašić who to-morrow is to be with us.'\" The three sent a postcard to Black Hand Provincial Director for Bosnia-Herzegovina Vladimir Gaćinović in France.\n\nThe following morning, on 28 June 1914, Ilić positioned the six assassins along the motorcade route. Ilić walked the street, exhorting the assassins to bravery.\n\nOn the morning of 28 June 1914, Franz Ferdinand and his party proceeded by train from Ilidža Spa to Sarajevo. Governor Oskar Potiorek met the party at Sarajevo station. Six automobiles were waiting. By mistake, three local police officers got into the first car with the chief officer of special security; the special security officers who were supposed to accompany their chief got left behind. The second car carried the Mayor and the Chief of Police of Sarajevo. The third car in the motorcade was a Gräf & Stift 28/32 PS open sports car with its top folded down. Franz Ferdinand, Sophie, Governor Potiorek, and Lieutenant Colonel Count Franz von Harrach rode in this third car. The motorcade's first stop on the preannounced program was for a brief inspection of a military barracks. According to the program, at 10:00 a.m., the motorcade was to leave the barracks for the town hall by way of the Appel Quay.\n\nSecurity arrangements within Sarajevo were limited. The local military commander, General Michael von Appel, proposed that troops line the intended route but was told that this would offend the loyal citizenry. Protection for the visiting party was accordingly left to the Sarajevo police, of whom only about 60 were on duty on the Sunday of the visit.\n\nThe motorcade passed the first assassin, Mehmedbašić. Danilo Ilić had placed him in front of the garden of the Mostar Cafe and armed him with a bomb. Mehmedbašić failed to act. Ilić had placed Vaso Čubrilović next to Mehmedbašić, arming him with a pistol and a bomb. He too failed to act. Further along the route, Ilić had placed Nedeljko Čabrinović on the opposite side of the street near the Miljacka River, arming him with a bomb.\n\nAt 10:10 am, Franz Ferdinand's car approached and Čabrinović threw his bomb. The bomb bounced off the folded back convertible cover into the street. The bomb's timed detonator caused it to explode under the next car, putting that car out of action, leaving a , crater, and wounding 16–20 people.\n\nČabrinović swallowed his cyanide pill and jumped into the Miljacka river. Čabrinović's suicide attempt failed, as the old cyanide only induced vomiting, and the Miljacka was only 13 cm deep due to the hot, dry summer. Police dragged Čabrinović out of the river, and he was severely beaten by the crowd before being taken into custody.\n\nThe procession sped away towards the Town Hall leaving the disabled car behind. Cvjetko Popović, Gavrilo Princip, and Trifun Grabež failed to act as the motorcade passed them at high speed.\n\nArriving at the Town Hall for a scheduled reception, Franz Ferdinand showed understandable signs of stress, interrupting a prepared speech of welcome by Mayor Fehim Curčić to protest: \"Mr. Mayor, I came here on a visit and I am greeted with bombs. It is outrageous.\" Duchess Sophie then whispered into Franz Ferdinand's ear, and after a pause, Franz Ferdinand said to the mayor: \"Now you may speak.\" He then became calm and the mayor gave his speech. Franz Ferdinand had to wait as his own speech, still wet with blood from being in the damaged car, was brought to him. To the prepared text he added a few remarks about the day's events thanking the people of Sarajevo for their ovations \"as I see in them an expression of their joy at the failure of the attempt at assassination.\"\n\nOfficials and members of the Archduke's party discussed what to do next. The archduke's chamberlain, Baron Rumerskirch, proposed that the couple remain at the Town Hall until troops could be brought into the city to line the streets. Governor-General Oskar Potiorek vetoed this suggestion on the grounds that soldiers coming straight from maneuvers would not have the dress uniforms appropriate for such duties. \"Do you think that Sarajevo is full of assassins?\" he concluded.\n\nFranz Ferdinand and Sophie gave up their planned program in favor of visiting the wounded from the bombing, at the hospital. Count Harrach took up a protective position on the left-hand running board of Franz Ferdinand's car. This is confirmed by photographs of the scene outside the Town Hall. At 10:45 a.m., Franz Ferdinand and Sophie got back into the motorcade, once again in the third car. In order to avoid the city center, General Oskar Potiorek decided that the royal car should travel straight along the Appel Quay to the Sarajevo Hospital. However, the driver, Leopold Lojka, took a right turn into Franz Josef Street. The reason for this is that Potiorek's aide Eric(h) von Merrizzi was in the hospital, and was therefore unable to give Lojka the information about the change in plans and the driving route. The Sarajevo Chief of Police Edmund Gerde (who had earlier repeatedly protested about the lack of security precautions for the visit) was asked to tell the drivers of the new route but in the confusion and tensions of the moment neglected to do so.\n\nAfter learning that the first assassination attempt had been unsuccessful, Princip thought about a position to assassinate the Archduke on his return journey, and decided to move to a position in front of a nearby food shop (Schiller's delicatessen), near the Latin Bridge. At this point the Archdukes' motorcade turned off the Appel Quay, mistakenly following the original route which would have taken them to the National Museum. Governor Potiorek, who was sharing the second vehicle with the Imperial couple, called out to the driver to reverse and take the Quay to the hospital. Driver Lojka stopped the car close to where Princip was standing, prior to backing up. The latter stepped forward and fired two shots from a distance of about using a Belgian-made 9×17mm (.380 ACP) \"Fabrique Nationale\" model 1910 semi-automatic pistol. Pistol serial numbers 19074, 19075, 19120 and 19126 were supplied to the assassins; Princip used #19074. According to Albertini, \"the first bullet wounded the Archduke in the jugular vein, the second inflicted an abdominal wound on the Duchess.\" Princip was immediately arrested. At his sentencing, Princip stated that his intention had been to kill Governor Potiorek, rather than Sophie.\n\nBoth victims remained seated upright, but died while being driven to the Governor's residence for medical treatment. As reported by Count Harrach, Franz Ferdinand's last words were \"Sophie, Sophie! Don't die! Live for our children!\" followed by six or seven utterances of \"It is nothing,\" in response to Harrach's inquiry as to Franz Ferdinand's injury. These utterances were followed by a long death rattle. Sophie was dead on arrival at the Governor's residence. Franz Ferdinand died 10 minutes later.\n\nThe bodies were transported to Trieste by the battleship and then to Vienna by special train. Even though most foreign royalty had planned to attend, they were pointedly disinvited and the funeral was just the immediate imperial family, with the dead couple's three children excluded from the few public ceremonies. The officer corps was forbidden to salute the funeral train, and this led to a minor revolt led by Archduke Karl, the new heir presumptive. The public viewing of the coffins was curtailed severely and even more scandalously, Montenuovo tried unsuccessfully to make the children foot the bill. The Archduke and Duchess were interred at Artstetten Castle because the Duchess could not be buried in the Imperial Crypt.\n\nAll of the assassins were eventually caught. Those in Austro-Hungarian custody were tried together with members of the infiltration route who had helped deliver them and their weapons to Sarajevo. Mehmedbašić was arrested in Montenegro, but was allowed to \"escape\" to Serbia where he joined Major Tankosić's auxiliaries, but in 1916 Serbia imprisoned him on other false charges (see criminal penalty section below).\n\nAnti-Serb rioting broke out in Sarajevo and various other places within Austria-Hungary in the hours following the assassination until order was restored by the military. On the night of the assassination, country-wide anti-Serb pogroms and demonstrations were also organized in other parts of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, particularly on the territory of modern-day Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. They were organized and stimulated by Oskar Potiorek, the Austro-Hungarian governor of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first anti-Serb demonstrations, led by the followers of Josip Frank, were organized in early evening of 28 June in Zagreb. The following day, anti-Serb demonstrations in Sarajevo became more violent and could be characterized as a pogrom. The police and local authorities in the city did nothing to prevent anti-Serb violence. Writer Ivo Andrić referred to the violence in Sarajevo as the \"Sarajevo frenzy of hate.\" Two Serbs were killed on the first day of pogrom in Sarajevo, many were attacked, while around 1,000 houses, shops, schools and institutions (such as banks, hotels, printing houses) owned by Serbs were razed or pillaged.\n\nAustro-Hungarian authorities arrested and prosecuted the Sarajevo assassins (except for Mehmedbašić who had escaped to Montenegro and was released from police custody there to Serbia) together with the agents and peasants who had assisted them on their way. The top count in the indictments was conspiracy to commit high treason involving official circles in the Kingdom of Serbia. Conspiracy to commit high treason carried a maximum sentence of death which conspiracy to commit simple murder did not. The trial was held from 12 October to 23 October with the verdict and sentences announced on 28 October 1914.\n\nThe adult defendants, facing the death penalty, portrayed themselves at trial as unwilling participants in the conspiracy. The examination of defendant Veljko Cubrilović (who helped coordinate the transport of the weapons and was a Narodna Odbrana agent) is illustrative of this effort. Cubrilović stated to the court: \"Princip glared at me and very forcefully said 'If you want to know, it is for that reason and we are going to carry out an assassination of the Heir and if you know about it, you have to be quiet. If you betray it, you and your family will be destroyed.'\" Under questioning by defense counsel Cubrilović described in more detail the basis of the fears that he said had compelled him to cooperate with Princip and Grabež.\" Cubrilović explained that he was afraid a revolutionary organization capable of committing great atrocities stood behind Princip and that he therefore feared his house would be destroyed and his family killed if he did not comply and explained that he knew such an organization existed in Serbia, at least at one time. When pressed for why he risked the punishment of the law, and did not take the protection of the law against these threats he responded: \"I was more afraid of terror than the law.\"\n\nIn order to refute the charge, the conspirators from Belgrade, who because of their youth did not face the death penalty, focused during the trial on putting blame on themselves and deflecting it from official Serbia and modified their court testimony from their prior depositions accordingly. Princip stated under cross examination: \"I am a Yugoslav nationalist and I believe in unification of all South Slavs in whatever form of state and that it be free of Austria.\" Princip was then asked how he intended to realize his goal and responded: \"By means of terror.\" Cabrinović, though, testified that the political views that motivated him to kill Franz Ferdinand were views held in the circles he traveled in within Serbia. The court did not believe the defendants' stories claiming to hold official Serbia blameless. The verdict ran: \"The court regards it as proved by the evidence that both the \"Narodna Odbrana\" and military circles in the Kingdom of Serbia in charge of the espionage service, collaborated in the outrage.\"\n\nPrison terms, death sentences and acquittals were as follows:\n\nAt trial Čabrinović had expressed his regrets for the murders. Following sentencing, Čabrinović received a letter of complete forgiveness from the three young children the assassins had orphaned. Čabrinović and Princip died of tuberculosis in prison. Those under the age of 20 years at the time of the crime could receive a maximum sentence of 20 years under Austrian-Hungarian law. The court heard arguments regarding Princip's age, as there was some doubt as to his true date of birth but concluded that Princip was under 20 at the time of the assassination. Because Bosnia and Herzegovina had not yet been assigned to Austria or to Hungary, the Austro-Hungarian Finance Minister administered Bosnia and Herzegovina and had responsibility for recommending clemency to the Kaiser.\n\nIn late 1916 and early 1917, secret peace talks took place between Austria-Hungary and France. There is circumstantial evidence that parallel discussions were held between Austria-Hungary and Serbia with Prime Minister Pašić dispatching his righthand man Stojan Protić and Regent Alexander dispatching his confidant Colonel Petar Živković to Geneva on secret business. Charles I of Austria laid out Austria-Hungary's key demand for returning Serbia to the control of the Serbian Government in exile: that Serbia should provide guarantees that there be no further political agitation emanating from Serbia against Austria-Hungary.\n\nFor some time, Regent Alexander and officers loyal to him had planned to get rid of the military clique headed by Apis as Apis represented a political threat to Alexander's power. The Austro-Hungarian peace demand gave added impetus to this plan. On 15 March 1917 Apis and the officers loyal to him were indicted, on various false charges unrelated to Sarajevo (the case was retried before the Supreme Court of Serbia in 1953 and all defendants were exonerated), by Serbian Court Martial on the French-controlled Salonika front. On 23 May Apis and eight of his associates were sentenced to death; two others were sentenced to 15 years in prison. One defendant died during the trial and the charges against him were dropped. The Serbian High Court reduced the number of death sentences to seven. Regent Alexander commuted four of the remaining death sentences, leaving just three death sentences in place.\nAmongst those tried, four of the defendants had confessed their roles in Sarajevo and their final sentences were as follows:\nIn justifying the executions, Prime Minister Pašić wrote to his envoy in London:\"...Dimitrijević (Apis) besides everything else admitted he had ordered Franz Ferdinand to be killed. And now who could reprieve them?\"\n\nAs the three condemned men were driven to their execution, Apis remarked to the driver \"Now it is clear to me and clear to you too, that I am to be killed today by Serbian rifles solely because I organized the Sarajevo outrage.\n\nVojislav Tankosić died in battle in late 1915 and so was not put on trial.\n\nFollowing the assassinations, Serbian Ambassador to France Milenko Vesnić and Serbian Ambassador to Russia Miroslav Spalajković put out statements claiming that Serbia had warned Austria-Hungary of the impending assassination. Serbia soon thereafter denied making warnings and denied knowledge of the plot. Prime Minister Pašić himself made these denials to \"Az Est\" on 7 July and to the Paris Edition of the \"New York Herald\" on 20 July. Other voices eventually spoke out on the \"warning\". As Serbian Education Minister Ljuba Jovanović wrote in \"Krv Sloventsva\", in late May or early June, Prime Minister Pašić reviewed the plot of the impending assassination with members of his cabinet. On 18 June, a telegram, lacking in specifics, ordered Serbia's Ambassador to Vienna, Jovan Jovanović, to warn Austria-Hungary that Serbia had reason to believe there was a conspiracy to assassinate Franz Ferdinand in Bosnia. On 21 June, Ambassador Jovanović met with Austro-Hungarian Finance Minister Bilinski. According to Serbian Military Attaché to Vienna, Colonel Lesanin, Ambassador Jovanović, spoke to Bilinski and \"...stressed in general terms the risks the Archduke heir apparent might run from the inflamed public opinion in Bosnia and Serbia. Some serious personal misadventure might befall him. His journey might give rise to incidents and demonstrations that Serbia would deprecate but that would have fatal repercussions on Austro-Serbian relations.\" Jovanović came back from the meeting with Bilinski and told Lesanin that \"...Bilinski showed no sign of attaching great importance to the total message and dismissed it limiting himself to remarking when saying goodbye and thanking him: 'Let us hope nothing does happen.'\" The Austro-Hungarian Finance Minister took no action based on Jovanović's remarks.\n\nIn 1924 J. Jovanović went public stating that his warning had been made on his own initiative, and what he said was that \"Among the Serb youths (in the army) there may be one who will put a ball-cartridge in his rifle or revolver in place of a blank cartridge and he may fire it, the bullet might strike the man giving provocation (Franz Ferdinand).\" J. Jovanović's account changed back and forth over the years and never adequately addressed Colonel Lesanin's statement. Bilinski did not speak openly on the subject, but his press department chief confirmed that a meeting had taken place including a vague warning, but there was no mention of an ethnic Serb Austro-Hungarian soldier shooting Franz Ferdinand.\n\nIn the days leading up to the assassination, Pašić was caretaker prime minister because during this period the Serbian Government briefly fell to a political alliance led by the Serbian Military. The military favored promoting Jovan Jovanović to Foreign Minister, and Jovanović's loyalties one might expect to have been divided and his orders therefore carried out poorly. By choosing a military loyalist to convey the message, and by not including any of the specifics such as the conspirators' names and weapons, Pašić, a survivor, hedged his bets against the various possible outcomes and consequences of the impending assassination.\n\nIn 1914, Rade Malobabić was Serbian Military Intelligence's chief undercover operative against Austria-Hungary. His name appeared in Serbian documents captured by Austria-Hungary during the war. These documents describe the running of arms, munitions, and agents from Serbia into Austria-Hungary under Malobabić's direction.\n\nOwing to the suppression by Serbia of Apis's confession and of the Salonika trial transcripts historians did not initially link Malobabić closely to the Sarajevo attack. Apis's confession, however, states that \"I engaged Malobabić to organize the assassination on the occasion of the announced arrival of Franz Ferdinand to Sarajevo.\" At the Salonika trial, Colonel Ljubomir Vulović (head of the Serbian Frontiers Service) testified: 'In 1914 on occasion of my official trip from Loznica to Belgrade, I received a letter at the General Staff [signed by Marshal Putnik, Serbia's top military officer] noting that agents of Malobabić would come and a teacher whose name I don't recall (Danilo Ilić was a teacher but it is unclear if the teacher in question was Ilić as Ilić can be placed in Brod but not Loznica) so I could sent them into Bosnia.' Because of that 'I went to Loznica and either that day or very soon afterwards sent Rade and that teacher into Bosnia.' Soon thereafter occurred the Sarajevo assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand.\" On the eve of his execution, Malobabić told a priest: \"They ordered me to go to Sarajevo when that assassination was to take place, and when everything was over, they ordered me to come back and fulfill other missions, and then there was the outbreak of the war.\" Vladimir Dedijer in \"The Road to Sarajevo\" presented additional testimonial evidence that Malobabić arrived in Sarajevo on the eve of the Sarajevo attack and gave the final go ahead for the operation to Danilo Ilić. This meshes with Dedijer's theory that Djuro Ŝarac had given instructions to Ilić on 16 June cancelling the assassination. Soon after their confessions, Serbia executed Malobabić, Vulović, and Apis on false charges. Serbia published no clarifications of their confessions with regards to the Sarajevo attack.\n\nAn alternative theory to the Sarajevo attack being a Serbian Military Intelligence Operation was that it was a \"Black Hand\" operation. The \"Black Hand\" was a Serbian military society formed on 9 May 1911 by officers in the Army of the Kingdom of Serbia, originating in the conspiracy group that assassinated the Serbian royal couple in May 1903, led by captain Dragutin Dimitrijević (Commonly referred to as \"Apis\").\n\nAfter Serbia's victory over Bulgaria in Macedonia in the Balkan Wars, the \"Black Hand\" became moribund because of the death of its president and the failure to replace him, an inactive secretary, casualties, broken links between its three-man cells, and a drying up of funding. By 1914 the \"Black Hand\" was no longer operating under its constitution but rather as a creature of the Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence, Apis, and its active ranks were composed mostly of Serbian officers loyal to Apis. Apis's confession to ordering the operation that begins with the phrase \"As the Chief of the Intelligence Department of the General Staff\", the fact that the military chain of command was invoked, the moribund nature of the \"Black Hand\" and the fact that under the \"Black Hand\" constitution Article 16, such an assassination could only be ordered by a vote of the Supreme Council Directorate, the President or the Secretary and no such order was made, are factors in favor of assigning responsibility to Serbian Military Intelligence. The fact that Milan Ciganović was involved, that the key officers involved were \"Black Hand\" members, that \"Black Hand\" Provincial Director for Bosnia and Herzegovina Vladimir Gaćinović was consulted and that there was no official budget for the operation favors assigning responsibility to the \"Black Hand\".\n\nAt trial, it was noted that the three assassins from Belgrade tried to take all blame on themselves. Čabrinović claimed the idea of killing Franz Ferdinand came from a newspaper clipping he received in the mail at the end of March announcing Franz Ferdinand's planned visit to Sarajevo. He then showed the newspaper clipping to Princip and the next day they agreed they would kill Franz Ferdinand. Princip explained to the court he had already read about Franz Ferdinand's upcoming visit in German papers. Princip went on to testify that, at about the time of Easter (19 April), he wrote an allegorical letter to Ilić informing him of the plan to kill Franz Ferdinand. Grabež testified that he and Princip, also at about the time of Easter, agreed between them to make an assassination of either Governor Potiorek or Franz Ferdinand and a little later settled on Franz Ferdinand. The defendants refused or were unable to provide details under examination.\n\nOn 26 March Ilić and Mehmedbašić had already agreed to kill Franz Ferdinand based on instructions from Belgrade predating the newspaper clipping and the discussions amongst the three assassins in Belgrade.\n\nSerbian Military Intelligence – through remnants of the \"Black Hand\" – penetrated the Narodna Odbrana, using its clandestine tunnel to smuggle the assassins and their weapons from Belgrade to Sarajevo. In the 5 June 1914 report by the President of the Narodna Odbrana Boža Milanović to Prime Minister Pašić one can sense the frustration of the President over the hijacking of his organization in the final sentence dealing with Sarajevo: \"Boža has informed all the agents that they should not receive anyone unless he produces the password given by Boža.\"\n\nPrime Minister Pašić received early information of the assassination plan. The information was received by Pašić early enough, according to Education Minister Ljuba Jovanović, for the government to order the border guards to prevent the assassins from crossing. This places the cabinet minister discussions in late May and the information release to some time before that. Albertini concluded that the source of the information was most likely Milan Ciganović. Bogičević made a more forceful case.\n\nThe circumstantial evidence against Ciganović includes his sinecure government job, his protection by the Chief of Police and Serbia's failure to arrest him (Austria-Hungary demanded Serbia arrest Major Vojislav Tankosić and Ciganović, but Serbia arrested only Tankosić and lied saying that Ciganović could not be found), Serbia's protection of Ciganović during the war, and the government's provision for Ciganović after it. In 1917, all of the Sarajevo conspirators within Serbia's control were tried at Salonika on false charges, except Ciganović, who even gave evidence against his comrades at the trial.\n\nApis's confession to ordering the assassination of Franz Ferdinand states that Russian Military Attaché Artamonov promised Russia's protection from Austria-Hungary if Serbia's intelligence operations became exposed and that Russia had funded the assassination. Artamonov denied the involvement of his office in an interview with Albertini. Artamonov stated that he went on vacation to Italy leaving Assistant Military Attaché Alexander Werchovsky in charge and though he was in daily contact with Apis he did not learn of Apis's role until after the war had ended. Albertini writes that he \"remained unconvinced by the behavior of this officer.\" Werchovsky admitted the involvement of his office and then fell silent on the subject.\n\nThere is evidence that Russia was at least aware of the plot before 14 June. De Schelking writes: \n\nThe murder of the heir to the Austro-Hungarian Empire and his wife produced widespread shock across European royal houses, and there was initially much sympathy for the Austrian position. Ordinary people did not really care about what happened, and on the evening of the assassination the crowds in Vienna listened to music and drank wine, as if nothing had happened. Within two days of the assassination, Austria-Hungary and Germany advised Serbia that it should open an investigation, but Secretary General to the Serbian Ministry of Foreign Affairs Slavko Gruic, replied \"Nothing had been done so far and the matter did not concern the Serbian Government.\" An angry exchange followed between the Austrian Chargé d'Affaires at Belgrade and Gruic.\n\nAfter conducting a criminal investigation, verifying that Germany would honor its military alliance, and persuading the skeptical Hungarian Count Tisza, Austria-Hungary issued a formal letter to the government of Serbia. The letter reminded Serbia of its commitment to respect the Great Powers' decision regarding Bosnia-Herzegovina, and to maintain good neighborly relations with Austria-Hungary. The letter contained specific demands aimed at preventing the publication of propaganda advocating the violent destruction of Austria-Hungary, removing the people behind this propaganda from the Serbian Military, arresting the people on Serbian soil who were involved in the assassination plot and preventing the clandestine shipment of arms and explosives from Serbia to Austria-Hungary.\n\nThis letter became known as the July Ultimatum, and Austria-Hungary stated that if Serbia did not accept all of the demands in total within 48 hours, it would recall its ambassador from Serbia. After receiving a telegram of support from Russia, Serbia mobilized its army and responded to the letter by completely accepting point #8 demanding an end to the smuggling of weapons and punishment of the frontier officers who had assisted the assassins and completely accepting point #10 which demanded Serbia report the execution of the required measures as they were completed. Serbia partially accepted, finessed, disingenuously answered or politely rejected elements of the preamble and enumerated demands #1–7 and #9. The shortcomings of Serbia's response were published by Austria-Hungary. Austria-Hungary responded by breaking diplomatic relations.\n\nThe next day, Serbian reservists being transported on tramp steamers on the Danube crossed onto the Austro-Hungarian side of the river at Temes-Kubin and Austro-Hungarian soldiers fired into the air to warn them off. The report of this incident was initially sketchy and reported to Emperor Franz-Joseph erroneously as \"a considerable skirmish\". Austria-Hungary then declared war and mobilized the portion of its army that would face the (already mobilized) Serbian Army on 28 July 1914. Under the Secret Treaty of 1892 Russia and France were obliged to mobilize their armies if any of the Triple Alliance mobilized. Russia's mobilization set off full Austro-Hungarian and German mobilizations. Soon all the Great Powers except Italy had chosen sides and gone to war.\n\nLater, referring to Franz Ferdinand's assassination, Vaso Čubrilović said: \"We destroyed a beautiful world that was lost forever due to the war that followed.\"\n\nVarious countries of the former Yugoslavia, Bosniaks and Croats largely view Gavrilo Princip as a terrorist and an ethnic Serb nationalist. The 100th anniversary of the assassination was commemorated with a concert by the Vienna Philharmonic in the Sarajevo City Hall, in an event that was organized by the European Union. Austrian president Heinz Fischer was the guest of honour.\n\nThe World War I commemorations were boycotted by Serb nationalists and dignitaries, who, along with Bosnian Serbs, view \"Princip as a hero.\" On the 100th anniversary of the assassination, a statue of Gavrilo Princip was erected in East Sarajevo. This was followed by another statue in Belgrade, which was erected in June 2015. Serbian history textbooks deny that Serbia or Princip were responsible for starting World War I, laying blame on the Central Powers instead. Milorad Dodik acknowledged that Bosnia is \"still divided\", but maintained that Princip was a \"freedom fighter\" and that Austria-Hungary had been an \"occupier\".\n\nPrincip's weapon, along with the car in which the Archduke was riding, his bloodstained uniform and the chaise longue on which he died, are on permanent display in the Heeresgeschichtliches Museum in Vienna, Austria. The bullet fired by Gavrilo Princip, sometimes referred to as \"the bullet that started World War I\", is a museum exhibit in the Konopiště Castle near the town of Benešov in the Czech Republic. The bronze medallion of Ferdinand and Sophie, which was part of a monument that was erected on the site of the assassination and demolished in 1918 during Yugoslav rule, is currently preserved in the Art Gallery of B&H in Sarajevo.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50773777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50773777", "title": "Assault of Daniel Nivel", "text": "Assault of Daniel Nivel\n\nOn 21 June 1998, Daniel Nivel, member of the National Gendarmerie was assaulted in the city of Lens by German football hooligans during the 1998 FIFA World Cup. He fell into a six-week coma and was left with permanent disability.\n\nOne of his attackers was arrested at the scene and tried in France, receiving a jail sentence of five years and being barred from returning to the country. Four others were tried in Essen in their own country and found guilty, with one being jailed for ten years for attempted murder and the others receiving shorter sentences for serious bodily harm.\n\nThe attack was deemed a national shame by German Chancellor Helmut Kohl. In the years since, Nivel has been a guest of honour at Germany football matches and a foundation in his name has opposed football hooliganism.\n\nAfter Germany's 2–2 draw with FR Yugoslavia at the Stade Félix Bollaert, 43-year-old Nivel was one of three members of the National Gendarmerie attacked by hooligans. He was struck by advertising boards and when he was lying on the floor without his helmet, was stamped and kicked in the head. Nivel fell into a coma until 4 August, and was left with permanent disability in his speech and movement.\n\nChancellor of Germany Helmut Kohl called the attack a national disgrace and requested that the team withdraw from the tournament.\n\nMarkus Warnecke, a Braunschweig native in his late 20s, was arrested at the scene of the crime. He was a bouncer and tattoo artist, and an alleged far-right activist. Warnecke was tried in nearby Saint-Omer; the prosecution considered him the ringleader, while the defence claimed that photographic element refuted that. Facing a maximum sentence of 15 years, Warnecke was jailed for five in May 2001. He was banned from all sports venues for five years and made \"persona non grata\" in France for ten.\n\nIn April 1999, the trial began for four defendants in Essen. Andre Zawacki, Frank Renger and Tobias Reifschlaeger all confessed, while Christopher Rauch used his right to remain silent. Nivel did not attend the start of the trial due to his speech problems. In November, all four were found guilty: Zawacki was sentenced to ten years in prison for attempted murder; Reifschlaeger, Renger and Rauch were convicted of serious bodily harm. They were jailed for six, five, and three-and-a-half years respectively.\n\nIn 2000, the German Football Association (DFB) set up the Daniel Nivel Foundation to confront football hooliganism and support victims.\n\nOn 14 June 2006, Nivel was the DFB's guest of honour for the 2006 FIFA World Cup game between that country and Poland at the Westfalenstadion in Dortmund; he was seated next to Chancellor Angela Merkel. The game was also marred by hooliganism. Nivel was also invited to Germany's match against Ukraine at UEFA Euro 2016, in Lille near Lens.\n\nOn 16 October 2018, prior to the UEFA Nations League football match between France and Germany, Nivel was awarded the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany by the german Minister of Foreign Affairs Heiko Maas in Paris.\n"}
{"id": "189692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189692", "title": "Baphomet", "text": "Baphomet\n\nBaphomet (; from Medieval Latin \"Baphometh\", \"Baffometi\", Occitan \"Bafometz\") is a deity that the Knights Templar were falsely accused of worshipping and that subsequently was incorporated into disparate occult and mystical traditions.\n\nThe name Baphomet first appeared in trial transcripts for the Inquisition of the Knights Templar starting in 1307. It first came into popular English usage in the 19th century during debate and speculation on the reasons for the suppression of the Templars.\n\nSince 1856, the name Baphomet has been associated with a \"Sabbatic Goat\" image drawn by Eliphas Levi which contains binary elements representing the \"sum total of the universe\" (e.g. male and female, good and evil, on and off, etc.). On one hand, Lévi's intention was to symbolize his concept of \"the equilibrium of the opposites\" that was essential to his magnetistic notion of the Astral Light; on the other hand, the Baphomet represents a tradition that should result in a perfect social order.\n\nThe name \"Baphomet\" appeared in July 1098 in a letter by the crusader Anselm of Ribemont:\n\nA chronicler of the First Crusade, Raymond of Aguilers, called the mosques \"Bafumarias\". The name \"Bafometz\" later appeared around 1195 in the Occitan poems \"Senhors, per los nostres peccatz\" by the troubadour Gavaudan. Around 1250 a poem bewailing the defeat of the Seventh Crusade by Austorc d'Aorlhac refers to \"Bafomet\". \"De Bafomet\" is also the title of one of four surviving chapters of an Occitan translation of Ramon Llull's earliest known work, the \"Libre de la doctrina pueril\", \"book on the instruction of children\".\n\nWhen the medieval order of the Knights Templar was suppressed by King Philip IV of France, on Friday 13 October 1307, Philip had many French Templars simultaneously arrested, and then tortured into confessions. Over 100 different charges had been leveled against the Templars. Most of them were dubious, as they were the same charges that were leveled against the Cathars and many of King Philip's enemies; he had earlier kidnapped Pope Boniface VIII and charged him with near identical offenses of heresy, spitting and urinating on the cross, and sodomy. Yet Malcolm Barber observes that historians \"find it difficult to accept that an affair of such enormity rests upon total fabrication\". The \"Chinon Parchment suggests that the Templars did indeed spit on the cross,\" says Sean Martin, and that these acts were intended to simulate the kind of humiliation and torture that a Crusader might be subjected to if captured by the Saracens, where they were taught how to commit apostasy \"with the mind only and not with the heart\". Similarly, Michael Haag suggests that the simulated worship of Baphomet did indeed form part of a Templar initiation ritual.\n\nThe name \"Baphomet\" comes up in several of these confessions. Peter Partner states in his 1987 book \"The Knights Templar and their Myth\", \"In the trial of the Templars one of their main charges was their supposed worship of a heathen idol-head known as a 'Baphomet' ('Baphomet' = Mahomet).\" The description of the object changed from confession to confession. Some Templars denied any knowledge of it. Others, under torture, described it as being either a severed head, a cat, or a head with three faces. The Templars did possess several silver-gilt heads as reliquaries, including one marked \"capud \", another said to be St. Euphemia, and possibly the actual head of Hugues de Payens. The claims of an idol named Baphomet were unique to the Inquisition of the Templars. Karen Ralls, author of the \"Knights Templar Encyclopedia\", argues that it is significant that \"no specific evidence [of Baphomet] appears in either the Templar Rule or in other medieval period Templar documents.\"\n\nModern scholars agree that the name of Baphomet was an Old French corruption of the name Muhammad, with the interpretation being that some of the Templars, through their long military occupation of the Outremer, had begun incorporating Islamic ideas into their belief system, and that this was seen and documented by the Inquisitors as heresy. Alain Demurger, however, rejects the idea that the Templars could have adopted the doctrines of their enemies. Helen Nicholson writes that the charges were essentially \"manipulative\"—the Templars \"were accused of becoming fairy-tale Muslims.\" Medieval Christians believed that Muslims were idolatrous and worshipped Muhammad as a god, with \"mahomet\" becoming \"mammet\" in English, meaning an idol or false god. This idol-worship is attributed to Muslims in several \"chansons de geste\". For example, one finds the gods \"Bafum e Travagan\" in a Provençal poem on the life of St. Honorat, completed in 1300. In the \"Chanson de Simon Pouille\", written before 1235, a Saracen idol is called \"Bafumetz\".\n\nWhile modern scholars and the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" state that the origin of the name Baphomet was a probable Old French version of \"Mahomet\", alternative etymologies have also been proposed.\n\nAccording to Pierre Klossowski in \"Le Baphomet\" (1965, Editions Mercure de France, Paris; translated into English by Sophie Hawkes and published as \"The Baphomet\" in 1988 by Eridanos Press): “The \"Baphomet\" has diverse etymologies… the three phonemes that constitute the denomination are also said to signify, in coded fashion, Basileus philosophorum metaloricum: the sovereign of metallurgical philosophers, that is, of the alchemical laboratories that were supposedly established in various chapters of the Temple. The androgynous nature of the figure apparently goes back to the Adam Kadmon of the Chaldeans, which one finds in the Zohar” (pages 164-165).\n\nIn the 18th century, speculative theories arose that sought to tie the Knights Templar with the origins of Freemasonry. Bookseller, Freemason and Illuminatus Christoph Friedrich Nicolai (1733–1811), in \"Versuch über die Beschuldigungen welche dem Tempelherrenorden gemacht worden, und über dessen Geheimniß\" (1782), was the first to claim that the Templars were Gnostics, and that \"Baphomet\" was formed from the Greek words βαφη μητȢς, \"baphe metous\", to mean \"Taufe der Weisheit\", \"Baptism of Wisdom\". Nicolai \"attached to it the idea of the image of the supreme God, in the state of quietude attributed to him by the Manichaean Gnostics\", according to F. J. M. Raynouard, and \"supposed that the Templars had a secret doctrine and initiations of several grades\" which \"the Saracens had communicated ... to them.\" He further connected the \"figura Baffometi\" with the pentagram of Pythagoras:\nÉmile Littré (1801–1881) in \"Dictionnaire de la langue francaise\" asserted that the word was cabalistically formed by writing backward \"tem. o. h. p. ab\", an abbreviation of \"templi omnium hominum pacis abbas\", 'abbot' or 'father of the temple of peace of all men.' His source is the \"Abbé Constant\", which is to say, Alphonse-Louis Constant, the real name of Eliphas Levi.\n\nHugh J. Schonfield (1901–1988), one of the scholars who worked on the Dead Sea Scrolls, argued in his book \"The Essene Odyssey\" that the word \"Baphomet\" was created with knowledge of the Atbash substitution cipher, which substitutes the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet for the last, the second for the second last, and so on. \"Baphomet\" rendered in Hebrew is בפומת; interpreted using Atbash, it becomes שופיא, which can be interpreted as the Greek word \"Sophia\", meaning wisdom. This theory is an important part of the plot of the novel \"The Da Vinci Code\".\n\nIn 1818, the name Baphomet appeared in the essay by the Viennese Orientalist Joseph Freiherr von Hammer-Purgstall, \"Mysterium Baphometis revelatum, seu Fratres Militiæ Templi, qua Gnostici et quidem Ophiani, Apostasiæ, Idoloduliæ et Impuritatis convicti, per ipsa eorum Monumenta\" (\"Discovery of the Mystery of Baphomet, by which the Knights Templars, like the Gnostics and Ophites, are convicted of Apostasy, of Idolatry and of moral Impurity, by their own Monuments\"), which presented an elaborate pseudohistory constructed to discredit Templarist Masonry and, by extension, Freemasonry. Following Nicolai, he argued, using as archaeological evidence \"Baphomets\" faked by earlier scholars and literary evidence such as the Grail romances, that the Templars were Gnostics and the \"Templars' head\" was a Gnostic idol called Baphomet.\n\nHammer's essay did not pass unchallenged, and F. J. M. Raynouard published an \"Etude sur 'Mysterium Baphometi revelatum'\" in \"Journal des savants\" the following year. Charles William King criticized Hammer saying he had been deceived by \"the paraphernalia of ... Rosicrucian or alchemical quacks,\" and Peter Partner agreed that the images \"may have been forgeries from the occultist workshops.\" At the very least, there was little evidence to tie them to the Knights Templar—in the 19th century some European museums acquired such pseudo-Egyptian objects, which were cataloged as \"Baphomets\" and credulously thought to have been idols of the Templars.\n\nLater in the 19th century, the name of Baphomet became further associated with the occult. Eliphas Levi published \"Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie\" (\"Dogma and Rituals of High Magic\") as two volumes (\"Dogme\" 1854, \"Rituel\" 1856), in which he included an image he had drawn himself which he described as Baphomet and \"The Sabbatic Goat\", showing a winged humanoid goat with a pair of breasts and a torch on its head between its horns (\"illustration, top\"). This image has become the best-known representation of Baphomet. Lévi considered the Baphomet to be a depiction of the absolute in symbolic form and explicated in detail his symbolism in the drawing that served as the frontispiece:\nLévi's depiction of Baphomet is similar to that of The Devil in early Tarot. Lévi, working with correspondences different from those later used by S. L. MacGregor Mathers, \"equated the Devil Tarot key with Mercury,\" giving \"his figure Mercury's caduceus, rising like a phallus from his groin.\"\n\nLévi believed that the alleged devil worship of the medieval Witches' Sabbath was a perpetuation of ancient pagan rites. A goat with a candle between its horns appears in medieval witchcraft records, and other pieces of lore are cited in \"Dogme et Rituel\".\n\nLévi's Baphomet, for all its modern fame, does not match the historical descriptions from the Templar trials, although it may also have been partly inspired by grotesque carvings on the Templar churches of Lanleff in Brittany and Saint-Merri in Paris, which depict squatting bearded men with bat wings, female breasts, horns and the shaggy hindquarters of a beast, as well as Eugène Viollet-le-Duc's vivid gargoyles that were added to Notre-Dame de Paris about the same time as Lévi's illustration.\n\nLévi's references to the School of Alexandria and the Templars can be explained against the background of debates about the origins and character of true Christianity. It has been pointed out that these debates included contemporary forms of Romantic Socialism, or Utopian Socialism, which were seen as the heirs of the Gnostics, Templars, and other mystics. Lévi, being himself an adherent of these schools since the 1840s, regarded the socialists and Romantics (such as Lamartine) as the successors of this alleged tradition of true religion. In fact, his narrative mirrors historiographies of socialism, including the \"Histoire des Montagnards\" (1847) by his best friend and political comrade Alphonse Esquiros. Consequently, the Baphomet is depicted by Lévi as the symbol of a revolutionary heretical tradition that would soon lead to the \"emancipation of humanity\" and the establishment of a perfect social order.\n\nIn Lévi's writings, the Baphomet does not only express a historical-political tradition, but also occult natural forces that are explained by his magical theory of the Astral Light. He developed this notion in the context of what has been called \"spiritualist magnetism\": theories that stressed the religious implications of magnetism. Often, their representatives were socialists that believed in the social consequences of a \"synthesis\" of religion and science that was to be achieved by the means of magnetism. Spiritualist mangetists with a socialist background include the Baron du Potet and Henri Delaage, who served as main sources for Lévi. At the same time, Lévi polemicized against famed Catholic authors such as Jules-Eudes de Mirville and Roger Gougenot des Mousseaux who regarded magnetism as the workings of demons and other infernal powers. The paragraph just before the passage cited in the previous section has to be seen against this background:\n\nLévi called his image \"The Goat of Mendes\", possibly following Herodotus' account that the god of Mendes — the Greek name for Djedet, Egypt — was depicted with a goat's face and legs. Herodotus relates how all male goats were held in great reverence by the Mendesians, and how in his time a woman publicly copulated with a goat. E. A. Wallis Budge writes,\n\nHistorically, the deity that was venerated at Egyptian Mendes was a ram deity, Banebdjedet (literally Ba of the lord of djed, and titled \"the Lord of Mendes\"), who was the soul of Osiris. Lévi combined the images of the Tarot of Marseilles \"Devil\" card and refigured the ram \"Banebdjed\" as a he-goat, further imagined by him as \"copulator in Anep and inseminator in the district of Mendes\".\n\nThe Baphomet of Lévi was to become an important figure within the cosmology of Thelema, the mystical system established by Aleister Crowley in the early twentieth century. Baphomet features in the Creed of the Gnostic Catholic Church recited by the congregation in \"The Gnostic Mass\", in the sentence: \"And I believe in the Serpent and the Lion, Mystery of Mysteries, in His name BAPHOMET.\"\n\nIn \"Magick (Book 4)\", Crowley asserted that Baphomet was a divine androgyne and \"the hieroglyph of arcane perfection\": Seen as that which reflects. \"What occurs above so reflects below, or As above so below\"\nFor Crowley, Baphomet is further a representative of the spiritual nature of the spermatozoa while also being symbolic of the \"magical child\" produced as a result of sex magic. As such, Baphomet represents the Union of Opposites, especially as mystically personified in Chaos and Babalon combined and biologically manifested with the sperm and egg united in the zygote.\n\nCrowley proposed that Baphomet was derived from \"Father Mithras\". In his \"Confessions\" he describes the circumstances that led to this etymology:\n\nLévi's Baphomet is the source of the later Tarot image of the Devil in the Rider-Waite design. The concept of a downward-pointing pentagram on its forehead was enlarged upon by Lévi in his discussion (without illustration) of the Goat of Mendes arranged within such a pentagram, which he contrasted with the microcosmic man arranged within a similar but upright pentagram. The actual image of a goat in a downward-pointing pentagram first appeared in the 1897 book \"La Clef de la Magie Noire\" by Stanislas de Guaita. It was this image that was later adopted as the official symbol—called the Sigil of Baphomet—of the Church of Satan, and continues to be used among Satanists.\n\nBaphomet, as Lévi's illustration suggests, has occasionally been portrayed as a synonym of Satan or a demon, a member of the hierarchy of Hell. Baphomet appears in that guise as a character in James Blish's \"The Day After Judgment\". Christian evangelist Jack T. Chick claimed that Baphomet is a demon worshipped by Freemasons, a claim that apparently originated with the Taxil hoax. Léo Taxil's elaborate hoax employed a version of Lévi's Baphomet on the cover of \"Les Mystères de la franc-maçonnerie dévoilés\", his lurid paperback \"exposé\" of Freemasonry, which in 1897 he revealed as a hoax intended to ridicule the Catholic Church and its anti-Masonic propaganda.\n\nIn 2014 The Satanic Temple commissioned an 8 1/2 foot statue of Baphomet to stand alongside a monument of the Ten Commandments at Oklahoma State Capitol, citing \"respect for diversity and religious minorities\" as reasons for erecting the monument. After the Ten Commandments monument was vandalized plans to erect the Baphomet statue were put on hold as the Satanic Temple did not want their statue to stand alone by the Oklahoma capitol. The Oklahoma Supreme Court declared all religious displays illegal and on 25 July 2015 the statue was erected near a warehouse in Detroit, as a symbol of the modern Satanist movement. On August 16, 2018 the Satanic Temple unveiled a Baphomet statue in Little Rock, Arkansas, where another 10 Commandments monument had been installed in 2017, citing the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nBaphomet appears in Dungeons & Dragons as a powerful demon lord, and is also known as the \"Horned King\", or the \"Prince of Beasts\". Baphomet is followed by minotaurs and other savage creatures. He desires the end of civilizations so all creatures may embrace their most basic, brutal instincts. He is described as a massive, black minotaur, with blood around his mouth and red eyes. He wears an iron crown topped with the heads of his enemies, along with spiked armor. He wields a huge glaive, named \"Heartcleaver\", but commonly fights with his hooves, claws, and horns. He rules of the 600th layer of The Abyss, known as the \"Endless Maze\", and is the sworn enemy of Yeenoghu, another demon lord.\n\nBaphomet also serves as the main antagonist in the PC game \"Tristania 3D\", and is the worshipped deity of the evil Courbée Dominate society. The game's storyline describes in depth that in fact Philip IV of France was the one who had worshipped Baphomet, not the Knights Templar, and he deliberately eradicated the entire order to make sure this secret would remain undiscovered. In the last level, the protagonist must enter the afterlife to seek out and defeat Baphomet, however, he is protected by the shadows of his fallen worshippers in the previous levels, along with the ghost of Evil Empress and the protagonist's former accomplice, Evil Twirl. The game depicts Baphomet very close to the original, except that it has a male torso, and dragon-like wings as opposed to feathered ones. Baphomet's main attack is a lethal wall of fire which causes severe damage, and can be manifested in rapid successions. Baphomet also can turn himself invisible during his attack periods. Successfully defeating him shall win the game, albeit it is noted that defeating him does not mean he is killed.\n\nAn interpretation of Baphomet, referred to as The Sword of Baphomet, forms part of the main plot in the 1996 point-and-click adventure game developed by Revolution Software, \".\" It is the first game in the \"Broken Sword\" series. The player assumes the role of George Stobbart, an American tourist in Paris, as he attempts to unravel a conspiracy much of which is influenced by and includes factual and fictional references and narrative devices relating to the History of the Knights Templar.\n\nIn the popular PC video game , in the final mission \"Icon of Sin\", the titular antagonist has a look similar to that of early depictions of Baphomet.\n\nIn July 2015 YouTube star and singer Poppy depicted the deity in the music video for her single Lowlife. Poppy can be seen imitating the famous pose of Baphomet.\n\nThe 2018 Netflix series \"Chilling Adventures of Sabrina\" has a large statue of Baphomet displayed at the Academy of Unseen Arts. The Satanic Temple has accused the show of plagiarizing their depiction of Baphomet, though later settled out of court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41679775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41679775", "title": "British Sports Car Championship", "text": "British Sports Car Championship\n\nThe British Sports Car Championship, was a British domestic motor racing championship which was originally created for sports cars complying with Appendix C of the International Sporting Code. For 1966 the championship was for Group 7 Sports Racing Cars and for 1967 it was restricted to Group 4 Sports Cars. By 1970, the 2-litre sports category had become very popular across Europe, therefore the organisers decided to change the championship regulations, admitting only these cars. The championship was abandoned during the 1972 season, after one race, because of a lack of entries. An attempt to re-launch the championship lead to a one-off single season being run in 1976.\n\nThe series began in 1964 with the Lavant Cup at Goodwood being won by John Coundley, however by the end of the inaugural season, established Formula One drivers were taking part, with the reigning World Drivers Champion, Jim Clark and Bruce McLaren among the race winners.\n"}
{"id": "5259388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259388", "title": "Byham Theater", "text": "Byham Theater\n\nThe Byham Theater is a landmark building at 101 Sixth Street in the Cultural District of Downtown Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. Originally built in 1903 as The Gayety Theater, the former vaudeville house was renovated and reopened as The Byham Theater in 1990.\n\nBuilt in 1903 and opened Halloween night 1904, the then-named Gayety Theater was stage and vaudeville house, and it featured stars such as Ethel Barrymore, Gertrude Lawrence, and Helen Hayes. It was renamed The Fulton in the 1930s when it became a full-time movie theater. The classic horror film \"Night of the Living Dead\", which was filmed in and around Pittsburgh, had its world premiere at the Fulton in 1968. In 1990 the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust bought the theater and refurbished the Fulton as part of its plan for the Cultural District. Carolyn M. Byham and William C. Byham of Pittsburgh made a major naming gift for a 1995 renovation, and it has been the Byham Theater since.\n\nFor the 50th anniversary of the Bill Mazeroski's series winning home run, the first public showing of the Game 7 taped discovered in December 2009 was hosted by Bob Costas at the theater on November 13, 2010 at 6 p.m. Mazeroski was joined by Pirate MVP Dick Groat and former Yankee Bobby Richardson to be interviewed during the showing of the game. MLB Network then telecast the game and interviews nationally.\n\nTheatre in Pittsburgh\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10783357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10783357", "title": "California Hot Rod Reunion", "text": "California Hot Rod Reunion\n\nCalifornia Hot Rod Reunion is a gathering of drag racers, hot rod enthusiasts and street rodders held in Bakersfield, California. The event was created by Steve Gibbs, vice-president of the National Hot Rod Association, in October 1992, as a one-time event to gather some of the old drag racers together. It has since become an annual event in early October at Auto Club Famoso Raceway outside Bakersfield. It has also spawned the National Hot Rod Reunion, held each year in Bowling Green KY. Honorees are named at each year's reunion. The Honorees are pioneers in the sport of drag racing and hot rodding. The 26th annual event, presented by AAA and associate sponsor Good Vibrations Motorsports, will be held Oct 19-21, 2018 .\nInformation on the honorees may be found at http://museum.nhra.com\n"}
{"id": "19398834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19398834", "title": "Cow Harbor Day", "text": "Cow Harbor Day\n\nCow Harbor Day is an annual festival celebrating the history of the village of Northport, New York, which was once known as Great Cow Harbor. It is held annually on the Sunday of the third full weekend in September, and since 1977 following the Great Cow Harbor 10K held on the Saturday before.\n\nCow Harbor Day draws thousand of visitors to Northport each September. Events kick off with a parade down Main Street, featuring floats, the area's best marching bands, antique cars and a temporary resurrection of the trolley that was once commonplace along this route. Bovine related costumes and floats are also a common theme. Celebrations are held at Northport Memorial Park at the harbor's edge. live music, boat races, and other attractions. For the past two years, the parade has been led by the US Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary Band from the local Ft. Salonga, NY Flotilla. Each year an appearance is made by the Regimental Band of the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point and Northport High School Marching Band and flag team.\n"}
{"id": "435236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435236", "title": "Crash cover", "text": "Crash cover\n\nA crash cover is a philatelic term for a type of cover, (including the terms air accident cover, interrupted flight cover, wreck cover) meaning an envelope or package that has been recovered from a fixed-wing aircraft, airship or aeroplane crash, train wreck, shipwreck or other accident. Crash covers are a type of interrupted mail.\n\nAviation related crash covers are a specialised collecting area of aerophilately and are much-prized items of postal history, because they are generally rare, but as tangible artifacts of often-tragic accidents they have a story to tell. The 367 covers salvaged from the \"Hindenburg\" disaster are especially desirable, with prices ranging from US$10,000 and up; a cover at the Corinphila auction in May 2001 realized 85,000 Swiss francs (US$75,000).\n\nThe American Air Mail Society has a \"Crash Cover Committee\" specializing in the study of crash covers. There is also a Wreck & Crash Mail Society, whose members collect all types of crash & wreck covers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4083825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4083825", "title": "Cyprus Observer", "text": "Cyprus Observer\n\nThe Cyprus Observer is a Turkish-Cypriot owned English-language weekly newspaper.\n\nIt is distributed for sale (also) in Britain and Turkey in addition to being on the internet.\n\nIt is published on Fridays in the Berliner format from its Kyrenia headquarters.\n\nThe newspaper is owned and edited by Hasan Ekcakica, who is also the official spokesman of the Turkish Cypriot administration.\n\nIn the past few years, more and more publications for the growing English-speaking population of North Cyprus are appearing on the scene. Not only does the \"Cyprus Observer\", founded in August 2005, have a local circulation, but it is also sold in London, as well as having a web page which is updated weekly (www.observercyprus.com). In addition to British community news, the newspaper mainly covers political developments in the Cyprus Problem as well as business news, news from the South of the island, world news, Turkey news, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "4452001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4452001", "title": "Disaster research", "text": "Disaster research\n\nDisaster research deals with conducting field and survey research on group, organizational and community preparation for, response to, and recovery from natural and technological disasters and other community-wide crises. The purpose behind this field of research is to attempt to advance and communicate knowledge on mitigation techniques and procedures and disaster preparedness, response, and recovery.\n\nThere are countless academic fields that are useful in the realm of disaster research which contribute to mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery. One such field is anthropology. Natural disasters are acceptable areas for anthropological work because of the effect they have on human populations and environments. These events create utter chaos in the lives of everyone affected by them and have long-lasting effects on multiple areas of society including: social organization, political organization and empowerment, economic consequences, environmental degradation, human and environmental adaptation and interactions, oral history, traditional knowledge, psychological consequences, public health and the broader historical record of the affected region.\n\nThere are many things to consider in the way of preparing for disasters in any area, but a specific area of concern that can be addressed through anthropological research is public health preparedness in the face of catastrophe. Anthropology can contribute to this area by providing for cultural awareness, respect and preparation for different parties that could potentially be involved in an event. For example, public health can become compromised during the relief period of a disaster if considerations for cultural and religious beliefs, including taboos, are not acknowledged or known by emergency and medical personnel. Due to personal and cultural values, treatment can become compromised by both a patient refusing to be treated and by personnel refusing to treat victims because of a violation of values and beliefs that could arise from treatment.\n\nThe Disaster Research Center (DRC), was the first social science research center in the world devoted to the study of disasters. It was established at Ohio State University in 1963 and moved to the University of Delaware in 1985. The Center conducts field and survey research on group, organizational and community preparation for, response to, and recovery from natural and technological disasters and other community-wide crises. DRC researchers have carried out systematic studies on a broad range of disaster types, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hazardous chemical incidents, and plane crashes. DRC has also done research on civil disturbances and riots, including the 1992 Los Angeles unrest. Staff have conducted nearly 600 field studies since the Center’s inception, traveling to communities throughout the United States and to a number of foreign countries, including Mexico, Canada, Japan, Italy, and Turkey. Faculty members from the University's Sociology and Criminal Justice Department and Engineering Department direct DRC's projects. The staff also includes postdoctoral fellows, graduate students, undergraduates and research support personnel.\n\nWork in the Disaster research field attempts to yield social science knowledge on disasters and information that can and has been applied to develop more effective policies, programs, and planning to reduce disaster impacts. The Disaster Research Center at the University of Delaware not only maintains its own databases but also serves as a repository for materials collected by other agencies and researchers. The DRC's special collection contains over 50,000 items, making it the most complete collection on the social and behavioral aspects of disasters in the world.\n\nStudies in the field of Disaster Research are supported by many diverse sources, such as:\n\n\nAdditionally, there are numerous academic and national policy boards in the realm of disaster research:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16925245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925245", "title": "Divorce party", "text": "Divorce party\n\nA divorce party (also known as a divorce ceremony) is a way to have a ceremony that celebrates the end of a marriage or civil union. Types of divorce parties vary greatly, and can involve either one or both members of the separating couple. Divorce parties have been called the final frontier in the wedding industry complex, and often involve a toast that emphasizes the couple beginning new chapters in their lives.\n\nSimilar to weddings, divorce parties take on many tenors and serve different purposes. Divorce parties in which couples have become independent of one another are often an announcement of new found singledom. These divorce parties are often equated to bachelor or bachelorette party and involve tongue-in-cheek items such as divorce cakes, wedding ring coffins, just-divorced banners, and divorce rings (a notched, or broken, circle). Shanna Moakler hosted her now-infamous divorce party in Las Vegas, complete with a cake-topper of a dead groom. Las Vegas is very widely considered as the divorce party capital of the United States.\n\nDivorce parties that couples co-host often have a serious tone, and are aimed at healing the rifts among family and friends that divorces may cause. The idea is to acknowledge the good, even as the marriage is ending, and to let go of the accompanying anguish. When a couple co-hosts a party, they often celebrate what they’ve shared and ask friends and family for support as they separate from each other. A recent CNN article on the subject of divorce parties noted that divorce parties are growing in popularity, and helping alleviate the stigma surrounding the end of marriage. \n\nLaura Dave wrote the first novel about divorce parties, which is entitled \"The Divorce Party\". Christine Gallagher developed the divorce party concept on her website DivorcePartyPlanner.com and in her book \"The Divorce Party Handbook\". \n\nItalian sociologist Laura Arosio argued that the breakdown of the marriage via legal separation and divorce begins for the first time in contemporary Western societies to be regarded as an event of transition in the life course of individuals. Her belief is that the phenomena which are spreading together with marital instability - from the divorce party to service agencies for the newly separated- can be interpreted as an attempt to build a ceremony for this emerging rite of passage (i.e. a divorce rite). Arosio assumes that in the rite of divorce the three phases - separation, transition, and re-incorporation, as described for the other rites of passage, can be recognized.\n\nA divorce ceremony performed by Unitarian Universalist clergy is known as a \"ceremony of hope\", which is normally carried out in a public forum. According to \"Beliefnet\", the two divorcees are expected to exchange requests and acceptances of forgiveness for supposed infractions which damaged confidence in the relationship.\n\nA United Methodist church may perform a divorce ceremony.\n\nDivorce ceremonies have gained currency in Japan and the People's Republic of China. In Mandarin, they are known as \"Líhūn yíshì\" () or \"Líhūn diǎnlǐ\" (), and in Japanese they are known as \"Rikon-shiki\" ().\n\n"}
{"id": "56047309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56047309", "title": "Djakarta Warehouse Project", "text": "Djakarta Warehouse Project\n\nDjakarta Warehouse Project or DWP is a dance music festival held in Bali, Indonesia. It is one of the largest annual dance music festivals in Asia, featuring dance music artists from around the world.\n\nThe festival originated from a nightclub event in 2008 called Blowfish Warehouse Project at Jakarta’s renowned night club Blowfish. Featuring 3 arenas within the club’s vicinity, the festival’s first edition boasted more than 5.000 audience. The second edition of the festival was planned to be held on 24 April 2010. However, a fight broke out three weeks before the planned date of the festival, damaging parts of the venue. Organisers moved the festival to Pantai Carnaval in Ancol and rebranded the festival with a new name, Djakarta Warehouse Project.\n\nThe 2010 edition of Djakarta Warehouse Project was held on 24 April. It was held at Pantai Carnaval, Ancol.\n\nThe 2011 edition was held on 9 December. It was held at Tennis Indoor & Outdoor Senayan.\n\nThe 2012 edition was held on 7 December. It was held at Istora Senayan.\n\nThe 2013 edition was held on 13 December. It was held at Eco Park Ancol.\n\nThe 2014 edition was held in two days for the first time. It was held on 12 and 13 December at JIExpo.\n\n12 Dec\n\n13 Dec\nThe 2015 edition was held at JIExpo, Kemayoran, North Jakarta on 11 and 12 December.\n\nThe 2016 edition of Djakarta Warehouse Project was held on 9 and 10 December 2016 at JIExpo, Kemayoran, North Jakarta.\n\n9 Dec\n\n10 Dec\nThe 2017 edition was held on 15 and 16 December at JIExpo, Kemayoran, North Jakarta.\n\n\nSpecial guests\nThe 2018 edition will be held on 7 to 9 December. It will be held in Bali for the first time at Garuda Wisnu Kencana Cultural Park.\nLive\n\nDJ\n"}
{"id": "9538987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9538987", "title": "Faked death", "text": "Faked death\n\nA faked death, also called a \"staged death\" and pseudocide, is a case in which an individual leaves evidence to suggest that they are dead to mislead others. This is done for a variety of reasons, such as to fraudulently collect insurance money or to avoid capture by law enforcement for some other crime.\n\nPeople who fake their own deaths sometimes do so by pretend drownings, because it provides a plausible reason for the absence of a body.\n\nThere are several how-to books on the subject of faking one's death, including \"How to Disappear Completely and Never Be Found\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7804066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7804066", "title": "General Conference Session (Seventh-day Adventist Church)", "text": "General Conference Session (Seventh-day Adventist Church)\n\nThe General Conference Session is the official world meeting of the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, held every five years. At the session, delegates from around the world elect the Church's World Leaders, discuss and vote on changes to the Church's Constitution, and listen to reports from the Church's 13 Divisions on activities going on within its territory.\n\nThe first session was held on May 20, 1863 in Battle Creek, Michigan with 20 delegates in attendance. The early sessions were held every year in a small church. As the Church's membership grew, time between sessions lengthened, meeting places got bigger, and more delegates attended. Today the sessions are held every five years in cities with stadiums that can seat more than 70,000 attendees, which includes the more than 2,400 delegates attending and the visitors from around the world who are watching the session.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44780", "title": "Gibellina", "text": "Gibellina\n\nGibellina (Sicilian: \"Gibbiddina\") is a small city and \"comune\" in the Province of Trapani, the mountains of central Sicily, Italy. It was destroyed by the 1968 Belice earthquake.\n\nThe new city, Gibellina Nuova, was rebuilt some distant from the old one. The new city was designed by many of the most prominent artists and architects in Italy, but done in a piecemeal fashion so that the parts of the new city bear little relation to one another or to the indigenous architecture of Sicily.\n\nRuderi di Gibellina (as the ruins of the city are now referred to) remained just as it was after the earthquake, practically a ghost-town. Artist Alberto Burri covered the entirety of the ruins in concrete, while preserving the streetscape. Additionally, Italian sculptor Pietro Consagra and Senator Ludovico Corrao formed an open-air museum with a Consagra sculpture \"Porta del Belice\" or \"Door to Belice\" at the entrance. Consagra expressed a wish to be buried at Gibellina on his deathbed in July 2005.\n"}
{"id": "52078132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52078132", "title": "Girls Award", "text": "Girls Award\n\n, sometimes abbreviated as GA, is a semi-annual fashion and music event held at Yoyogi National Gymnasium 1st Gymnasium in Tokyo, Japan. It is one of the biggest fashion events in Japan, with approximately 30,000 people attending each time. It is organized by GirlsAward Inc. under the slogan \"Shibuya to Asia, and the World\" and sponsored by Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Tokyo Metropolitan Government and Fuji Television. Usually, the Autumn/Winter(A/W) event is held in September to October, and the Spring/Summer(S/S) is held in March to May of each year.\n\nOn September 9, 2009, the first event Girls Award 2009 was held at Shibuya O-East. It featured models, gravure idols, and auditions associated with DAM Karaoke system. In 2010, from Girls Award 2010, the location was moved to Yoyogi National Gymnasium. From January 25 to 27, 2012, a collaboration event was held with South Korean television MBC featuring the fashion show and K-pop music. In 2014, the first overseas event with A-Nation was held in Taiwan. On April 9, 2016, during GirlsAward 2016 S/S, Instagram's CEO Kevin Systrom appeared on the stage and made a selfie performance with Haruna Kojima, a member of AKB48.\n"}
{"id": "4228496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4228496", "title": "Great Fire of New York (1776)", "text": "Great Fire of New York (1776)\n\nThe Great Fire of New York was a devastating fire that burned through the night of September 20, 1776, and into the morning of September 21, on the West Side of what then constituted New York City at the southern end of the island of Manhattan. It broke out in the early days of the military occupation of the city by British forces during the American Revolutionary War.\n\nThe fire destroyed about one third of the city, while some unaffected parts of the city were plundered. Many people believed or assumed that one or more people deliberately started the fire, for a variety of different reasons. British leaders accused revolutionaries acting within the city and state, and many residents assumed that one side or the other had started it. The fire had long-term effects on the British occupation of the city, which did not end until 1783.\n\nThe American Revolutionary War broke out in April 1775. The city of New York was already an important center of business but had not yet become a sprawling metropolis. It occupied only the lower portion of the island of Manhattan and had a population of approximately 25,000. Before the war began, the Province of New York was politically divided, with active Patriot organizations and a colonial assembly that was strongly Loyalist. After the battles of Lexington and Concord, Patriots seized control of the city and began arresting and expelling Loyalists.\nEarly in the summer of 1776, when the war was still in its early stages, British General William Howe embarked on a campaign to gain control of the city and its militarily important harbor. After occupying Staten Island in July, he launched a successful attack on Long Island in late August, assisted by naval forces under the command of his brother, Admiral Lord Richard Howe. American General George Washington recognized the inevitability of the capture of New York City, and withdrew the bulk of his army about north to Harlem Heights. Several people, including General Nathanael Greene and New York's John Jay advocated burning the city down to deny its benefits to the British. Washington laid the question before the Second Continental Congress, which rejected the idea: \"it should in no event be damaged.\"\n\nOn September 15, 1776, British forces under Howe landed on Manhattan. The next morning, some British troops marched toward Harlem, where the two armies clashed again, while others marched into the city.\n\nA civilian exodus from the city had begun well before the British fleet arrived in the harbor. The arrival the previous February of the first Continental Army troops in the city had prompted some people to pack up and leave, including Loyalists who were specifically targeted by the army and Patriots. The capture of Long Island only accelerated the abandonment of the city. During the Continental Army's occupation of the city, many abandoned buildings were appropriated for the army's use. When the British arrived in the city, the property of Patriots was confiscated for the British army's use. Despite this, housing and other demands of the military occupation significantly strained the city's available building stock.\n\nAccording to the eyewitness account of John Joseph Henry, an American prisoner aboard HMS \"Pearl\", the fire began in the Fighting Cocks Tavern, near Whitehall Slip. Abetted by dry weather and strong winds, the flames spread north and west, moving rapidly among tightly packed homes and businesses. Residents poured into the streets, clutching what possessions they could and found refuge on the grassy town commons (today, City Hall Park). The fire crossed Broadway near Beaver Street and then burned most of the city between Broadway and the Hudson River. The fire raged into the daylight hours and was stopped by changes in wind direction as much as by the actions of some of the citizenry and British marines sent, according to Henry, \"in aid of the inhabitants.\" It may also have been stopped by the relatively undeveloped property of King's College, located at the northern end of the fire-damaged area. Estimates for the number of buildings destroyed range from 400 to 1,000, representing between 10 and 25 percent of the 4,000 city buildings in existence at the time. Among the buildings destroyed was Trinity Church; St. Paul's Chapel survived.\n\nHowe's report to London implied that the fire was deliberately set: \"a most horrid attempt was made by a number of wretches to burn the town.\" Royal Governor William Tryon suspected that Washington was responsible, writing that \"many circumstances lead to conjecture that Mr. Washington was privy to this villainous act\" and that \"some officers of his army were found concealed in the city.\" Many Americans also assumed that the fire was the work of Patriot arsonists. John Joseph Henry recorded accounts of marines returning to the \"Pearl\" after fighting the fire in which men were \"caught in the act of firing the houses.\"\n\nSome Americans accused the British of setting the fire so that the city might be plundered. A Hessian major noted that some who fought the blaze managed to \"pay themselves well by plundering other houses near by that were not on fire.\"\nWashington wrote to John Hancock on September 22, specifically denying knowledge of the fire's cause. In a letter to his cousin Lund, Washington wrote, \"Providence—or some good honest fellow, has done more for us than we were disposed to do for ourselves\".\n\nAccording to historian Barnet Schecter, no accusation of arson has withstood scrutiny. The strongest circumstantial evidence in favor of arson theories is the fact that the fire appeared to start in multiple places. However, contemporary accounts explain that burning debris from wooden roof shingles spread the fire. One diarist wrote that, \"the flames were communicated to several houses\" by the debris \"carried by the wind to some distance.\"\n\nThe British interrogated more than 200 suspects, but no charges were ever filed. Coincidentally, Nathan Hale, an American captain engaged in spying for Washington, was arrested in Queens the day the fire started. Rumors attempting to link him to the fires have never been substantiated; there is nothing indicating that he was arrested (and eventually hanged) for anything other than espionage.\n\nMajor General James Robertson confiscated surviving uninhabited homes of known Patriots and assigned them to British officers. Churches, other than the state churches (Church of England) were converted into prisons, infirmaries, or barracks. Some of the common soldiers were billeted with civilian families. There was a great influx of Loyalist refugees into the city resulting in further overcrowding, and many of these returning and additional Loyalists from Patriot-controlled areas encamped in squalid tent cities on the charred ruins. The fire convinced the British to put the city under martial law rather than returning it to civilian authorities. Crime and poor sanitation were persistent problems during the British occupation, which did not end until they evacuated the city on November 25, 1783.\n\n"}
{"id": "16262275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16262275", "title": "Great Fire of Northampton", "text": "Great Fire of Northampton\n\nThe Great Fire of Northampton occurred in September 1675 in Northampton in Northamptonshire, England. The blaze was caused by sparks from an open fire in St. Mary’s Street, near Northampton Castle. The fire devastated the town centre, destroying about 700 buildings [out of 850] including All Saints church, in six hours. Three quarters of the town was destroyed, 11 people died and about 700 families were made homeless. Many people escaped the fire by going through Welsh House on the market square to safety.\n\nLocal people and businesses raised £25,000 towards re-building the town centre based around the Market Square. Streets were widened to help prevent a re-occurrence. King Charles II donated 1,000 tons of timber from Salcey Forest for the re-building. A commemorative statue of the king (dressed in a Roman toga) stands on the portico of the re-built All Saints church.\n\nIn 1724, the town's new appearance inspired author and traveler Daniel Defoe to describe Northampton as the \"handsomest and best built town in all this part of England…..finely rebuilt with brick and stone, and the streets made spacious and wide\".\n\nThe fire received fictional treatment in book 2 of Alan Moore's 2016 novel \"Jerusalem\".\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "22726175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22726175", "title": "Harold Fischer", "text": "Harold Fischer\n\nColonel Harold Edward Fischer, Jr. (May 8, 1925 – April 30, 2009) was a United States Air Force fighter pilot and flying ace of the Korean War.\n\nFischer was born near Lone Rock, Iowa, in a farm on May 8, 1925. \n\nAfter service with the United States Navy in World War II, followed by service with the United States Army, Fisher transferred into the United States Air Force in 1949.\n\nServing with the 39th Flying Training Squadron, Fischer saw action in the Korean War, shooting down eleven MiG aircraft in his more than 175 combat missions. On April 7, 1953, he was shot down and ejected from his F-86 Sabre north of the Yalu River, in a dogfight with three MiGs that extended into Chinese territory, an area that the Air Force had specifically ordered its pilots not to enter. Contrary to these facts, the Soviets did not admit their operations alongside the Chinese in the Korean War, and dispute the consideration that a Chinese pilot had shot down Fisher. The retired Colonel Harold Fisher would meet Han Decai again, and become friends, gifting Han Decai with a model of an F-86 Sabre Jet.\nFischer was taken captive by Chinese military personnel and imprisoned near Shenyang, Liaoning Province. Although the Korean Armistice Agreement called for the release of all prisoners of war, Fisher was not freed. After a thwarted escape attempt nine months into his captivity, he was routinely tortured and ultimately admitted to trumped up charges that he had been ordered to enter Manchuria and that he had participated in germ warfare.\n\nA mock trial led to his release in May 1955. Fischer was returned to active service two months later.\n\nHe also served in the Vietnam War, mainly as a helicopter pilot. He flew more than 200 missions over South Vietnam.\n\nFisher served for a full 30 years, receiving many decorations, including the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross, and the Distinguished Service Cross.\n\nFischer died on April 30, 2009, in Las Vegas, Nevada, from complications after back surgery. He was 83. He is buried at Arlington National Cemetery in Section 59.\n\n"}
{"id": "3745723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3745723", "title": "Human-baiting", "text": "Human-baiting\n\nHuman-baiting is a blood sport involving the baiting of humans. There are at least three known documented cases of human-baiting, all of which occurred in England in the 19th century.\n\n\"The Sporting Magazine\", vol. XVIII, documented a fight between parties labeled simply the \"Gentleman and the Bull Dog\". \"The Sporting Times\" also reported on this fight, which occurred in 1807. The story illustrates the outcome of a large, mastiff-like dog charging its opponent. Despite the handicap of a muzzle, the dog was the winner.\n\nOn 6 July 1874 the \"Daily Telegraph\" published an article, written by James Greenwood, in which he reported on 25 June 1874 to have witnessed a fight between a man and a dog. Greenwood recounted the tale in his 1876 book, \"\", in the chapter called . On July 11, 1874, \"The Spectator\" published an article called \"The Dog-Fight at Hanley\" that described the circumstances of the brawl. \n\nThe fighter, named Brummy, was a middle-aged dwarf about tall, with oversized features, and bowed legs. He had apparently agreed to fight the dog for a bet, on his theory that no dog \"could lick a man\". His opponent was a white bulldog named Physic. Held by its guardian, the dog apparently did not bark, but was excited to the point where tears ran from its eyes. The fight, watched by an audience of about 50, occurred at an old inn at Hanley, Staffordshire, in a large guest room, its windows closed and its floor covered in sawdust, with the ring cordoned off by a line.\n\nDuring the fight Brummy was bitten deeply several times on his arms, and the Bulldog was dealt several heavy blows to the head and ribs. After ten rounds the Bulldog's head was heavily swollen, it had lost two teeth, and one of its eyes was closed. The fight lasted until round eleven when Brummy knocked the dog out.\n\nThis story was reported on by \"The New York Times\", which stated that the story is probably false, though noting that the \"Daily Telegraph\" insisted on its veracity.\n\nIn 1892, another human-baiting occurred between the human combatant James Oxley and a fighting dog named Crib. The following is extracted from a contemporary report:\n\n"}
{"id": "54428713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54428713", "title": "Juan Carlos Guzmán-Betancourt", "text": "Juan Carlos Guzmán-Betancourt\n\nJuan Carlos Guzmán-Betancourt (born 1976) is a Colombian criminal and impostor. Guzmán is believed to have stolen at least $1 million in various countries. He has used at least ten different false identities and has been pursued in Colombia, Venezuela, Mexico, Canada, Russia, Thailand and Japan.\n\nGuzmán was born in 1976 in Roldanillo, Colombia. On June 4, 1993, he arrived to Miami as a wheel-well stowaway, calling himself Guillermo Rosales. As an unnamed male, \"13 years old\", he was listed in the FAA report on flights with stowaways.\n\nBetancourt was first arrested in the United Kingdom in 1998 on suspicion of four burglaries at the Le Méridien Piccadilly Hotel, and of using a stolen credit card. In the U.S. states of Virginia and New York, Guzmán was convicted of larceny and credit card fraud in Florida, being deported from the U.S. three times. \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "54699860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54699860", "title": "List of solar eclipses visible from Russia", "text": "List of solar eclipses visible from Russia\n\nThis incomplete list of solar eclipses visible from Russia enumerates the solar eclipses that have been seen and will be seen in Russia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nObscuration and moment of time with maximum magnitude (UTC)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "420513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420513", "title": "Lists of extinct species", "text": "Lists of extinct species\n\nThis page features lists of extinct species, organisms that have become extinct, either in the wild or completely disappeared from Earth. In practice, a species not definitely located in the wild in the last 50 years is called extinct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9568526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9568526", "title": "Miami Pop Festival (May 1968)", "text": "Miami Pop Festival (May 1968)\n\nThe Miami Pop Festival was the name of two unrelated music festivals that took place in May and December 1968 at Gulfstream Park, a horse racing track in Hallandale, Florida (now called Hallandale Beach), just north of Miami. The first took place on May 18–19, 1968, and was promoted by Richard O'Barry and Michael Lang, later famous as promoter of Woodstock. Main headliners included The Jimi Hendrix Experience.\n\nThe May event was officially publicized on promotional materials and in radio ads as the \"1968 Pop and Underground Festival,\" and \"The 1968 Pop Festival\". An estimated 25,000 people attended this event, which was promoted by Richard O'Barry and Michael Lang. Bands featured at the festival included The Jimi Hendrix Experience, The Mothers of Invention, Blue Cheer, Chuck Berry, John Lee Hooker, The Crazy World of Arthur Brown, Blues Image, Charles Austin Group, and Evil. The opening act on Saturday was a little-known group called The Package, and the closing act was The Jimi Hendrix Experience. The second part of what was originally scheduled as a two-day event, Sunday's concert was rained out, but there was at least one beneficial result — it inspired Hendrix to write \"Rainy Day, Dream Away.\" Decades later, the festival began to be referred to colloquially as the \"Miami Pop Festival\", leading to confusion with the actual Miami Pop Festival.\n\nOn November 5, 2013, a CD and DVD were released containing the first available audio and film of the Experience at the festival. The CD, \"The Jimi Hendrix Experience: Miami Pop Festival\", contains about an hour of previously unreleased music. The DVD, \"Jimi Hendrix: Hear My Train A Comin’\", features a two-hour documentary on Hendrix’s life, including previously-unseen film of Hendrix and the band at the Miami festival, as well as some extras with additional footage from the festival. The documentary was also broadcast in the US on November 5, 2013, by the Public Broadcasting Service as part of its American Masters series.\n\n"}
{"id": "29107838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29107838", "title": "Mortality forecasting", "text": "Mortality forecasting\n\nMortality forecasting refers to the art and science of determining likely future mortality rates. It is especially important in rich countries with a high proportion of aged people, since aged populations are expensive in terms of pensions (both public and private). It is a major topic in Ageing studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "3147343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3147343", "title": "Nobel Peace Prize Concert", "text": "Nobel Peace Prize Concert\n\nThe Nobel Peace Prize Concert (Norwegian and Swedish: \")\" has been held annually since 1994 on 11 December, to honour the Nobel Peace Prize laureate. The award ceremony on 10 December takes place in Oslo City Hall, while the concert has been held at Oslo Spektrum, with the attendance of the laureate and other prominent guests. The Concert is broadcast to a global audience and reaches up to 350 million households in 100 countries.\n\nIn 2015 a new distributor was announced and after 20 years at Oslo Spektrum, a change of concert venue was announced. The much larger Telenor Arena. The international entertainment giant IMG lost the job in obtaining sponsors and distribute it.\nInstead the concert will be produced by the Norwegian event agency Gyro in cooperation with the television production department to Norwegian Warner Bros, the former Eyeworks.\n\nThe concert features performers from a wide range of musical genres, the exception being the year of 1995, when a classical concert was held instead. Several editions of the concert are recorded, with different lengths and content, for airing in several countries.\n\nThe hosts give descriptions of the winner's work, an interview with the winner is shown, and the winner gives a speech during the concert.\n\nIn 2018, the concert organizers announced that the show would be put on hiatus for 2018, hoping to hold a relaunched concert the following year. The official website stated, \"The decision emerges from a wish to re-think the concert format and content but also reflects the challenging financial situation of the concert in recent years. Moreover, people’s media preferences have undergone radical change since the first concert in 1994. This is something the concert organizers and producers are keenly aware of as they move forward. We have struggled to maintain an appropriate level of financing and want to use the year ahead to develop a new format for the concert. Our ambition is to launch a renewed and better concert in 2019. [...] We plan to use this break to further develop the format and strengthen the financing beyond the continuing and generous support of our long term Norwegian sponsors. The firmer our financial base, the stronger our independence in choice of concert format and profile, say concert producers Odd Arvid Strømstad (Warner Bros. Norway) and Kristian Kirkvaag (Gyro).\"\n\nSince planning starts in January, the artists invited to the concert aren't typically connected to the winner, who is announced in October. However, a few late additions are usually made to reflect the winner. Originally, the show was hosted by Norwegian celebrities or television personalities. However, since the year 2000 hosts have with few exceptions come from the United States of America. \nThe Norwegian Radio Orchestra is the main orchestra every year.\n\n\n\n\n\nThis year a concert featuring only classical works was held.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHarry Connick Jr brought 35 musicians with him on stage, when performing at the concert in 1997.\n\n\n\n\n\nAt the concert in 1998, American TV network Fox, did not include A-ha's performance, which was edited out. Another performance edited out by Fox in 1998, was Norwegian artist Espen Lind's \"Pop From Hell\". The word \"hell\" was not the problem, but the following sentence: \"You make me so hard/because you're a star\". A Fox-producer stated it would be too much to take for the American family audience. Espen Lind was told his performance would not be edited out if he did not include the word \"hard\" in the song, but he would not change the lyrics. He said he did not want to let himself be controlled by a double-moralistic American family channel, and that such compromises were not acceptable for him to make.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2001 concert's closing song was \"Let It Be\", performed by Paul McCartney and the other artists.\n\n\n\n\nThe Grand Finale in 2002, performed by all the artists, was \"Imagine\" by John Lennon.\n\n\n\n\nThe Grand Finale in 2003, sung by all the artists, was \"Imagine\". Robert Plant sang and changed the word \"religion\" with \"division\" in the sentence \"Nothing to kill or die for/ And no division too\".\n\n\n\n\nThe use of Tom Cruise as a host created some controversy both from people fearing it could be used to promote Scientology and from people who were unhappy with his supportive statements on the Iraq War. There was however no mention of Scientology during the concert and Cruise has stated his remarks on the war were misquoted. The Grand Finale was led by Patti LaBelle. For the third year in a row, the song chosen for the finale was John Lennon's \"Imagine\".\n\n\n\n\nThe Grand Finale in 2005, sung by all the artists, was \"Give Peace a Chance\".\n\n\n\n\nThe artists joined Lionel Richie on stage at the end of the show when/after he was singing \"All Night Long\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe artists joined Diana Ross on stage at the end of the show when/after she was singing Reach Out and Touch (Somebody's Hand).\n\n\n\n\nThe Grand Finale in 2009, sung by all the artists, was Michael Jackson's \"Man in the Mirror\".\n\n\n\n\nAll artists performed Michael Jackson's \"Man in the Mirror\" as the finale to the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize Concert.\n\n\n\n\nAll artists joined with Angélique Kidjo on the stage singing the song \"Move On Up\" as the finale to the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize Concert.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMuch of the concert of 2014 will future / be influenced by Bollywood performances.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOne of the surviving Hibaku pianos, a series of pianos that were successfully restored following the Hiroshima and Nagaski atomic bombings in 1945, was featured during the event. It was played by John Legend during his and Zara Larsson's duet. This was the last concert before a hiatus was announced in 2018.\n\n\nNo regular Nobel Peace Prize Concert was held this year, as the organizers decided to look at the event and make changes. An alternative concert is planned for 2018. It is estimated that the original Nobel Peace Prize concert will appear again in a different format in 2019.\n\nHosts: Kåre Magnus Bergh and Silje Nordnes\n\nArtists for alternative concert:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1723044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723044", "title": "Occupational crime", "text": "Occupational crime\n\nOccupational crime is crime that is committed through opportunity created in the course of legal occupation. Thefts of company property, vandalism, the misuse of information and many other activities come under the rubric of occupational crime.The concept of occupational crime - as one of the principal forms of white collar crime - has been quite familiar and widely invoked since the publication of Clinard and Quinney's influential Criminal Behavior Systems: A Typology. More recently, however, the term occupational crime has been applied to activities quite removed from the original meaning of white collar crime, and it has been used interchangeably with such terms as occupational deviance and workplace crime. In the interest of greater conceptual clarity within the field of white collar crime the argument is made here for restricting the term 'occupational crime' to illegal and unethical activities committed for individual financial gain - or to avoid financial loss - in the context of a legitimate occupation. The term 'occupational deviance' is better reserved for deviation from occupational norms (e.g. drinking on the job; sexual harassment), and the term 'workplace crime' is better reserved for conventional forms of crime committed in the workplace (e.g. rape; assault). The conceptual conflation of fundamentally dissimilar activities hinders theoretical, empirical, and policy-related progress in the field of white collar crime studies.\n"}
{"id": "59209012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59209012", "title": "Osaka Hurricane", "text": "Osaka Hurricane\n\nOsaka Hurricane was the annual flagship professional wrestling event produced by Osaka Pro Wrestling between 2003 and 2011. The event was held during the month of February. The event was considered the biggest event of Osaka Pro. It was introduced first in 2003. Two editions of the event were held in 2004. The first edition of 2004 was the fourth Super J-Cup tournament held in Osaka while the second edition of 2004 was held in Tokyo during the month of April and was the only version of the event to be held in April and outside Osaka. The final event was held in August of 2011 and then Osaka Hurricane was discontinued.\n\nThe first Osaka Hurricane event took place on February 1, 2003 at the Osaka-jō Hall. The event was headlined by a Osaka Pro Wrestling Championship match billed as \"Symbol of Osaka vs. Tennozan\" in which Delfin defeated the defending champion Big Boss MA-G-MA to capture the title.\n\nThe second Osaka Hurricane was held on February 21, 2004 featured the 2004 Super J-Cup tournament, featuring the best junior heavyweights in Japan and the event was aired on pay-per-view. The tournament was won by Naomichi Marufuji from Pro Wrestling Noah. The event also featured a six-man tag team match, in which Cima, Heat and Kenta defeated the veteran team of Jushin Thunder Liger, Jinsei Shinzaki and Super Delfin.\n\n\nThe third Osaka Hurricane event was held at Yoyogi National Gymnasium in Tokyo and was the first and only Osaka Hurricane event to be held in Tokyo and was dubbed \"Osaka Hurricane in Tokyo\". The event took place on April 2, 2004 and marked the only time that Osaka Hurricane was held twice in a year. The event was headlined by a six-man tag team match in which Big Boss MA-G-MA, Daio QUALLT and GOA billed as Kishiwada Gurentai took on the team of New Japan Pro-Wrestling representatives Jushin Thunder Liger, Koji Kanemoto and Wataru Inoue. Kaz Hayashi defended the AJPW World Junior Heavyweight Championship against Tsubasa in the penultimate match.\n\nThe fourth Osaka Hurricane was held on February 13, 2005 at the Osaka Prefectural Gymnasium in Osaka, Japan. In the main event, Big Boss MA-G-MA defended the Osaka Pro Wrestling Championship against Super Dolphin, who defeated MA-G-MA to win the title. The event also featured the return of Tsubasa to action as he teamed with Jushin Thunder Liger to take on Super Delfin and The Tiger in a tag team match, which Liger and Tsubasa won.\n\n"}
{"id": "21476593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21476593", "title": "Pompeii", "text": "Pompeii\n\nPompeii () was an ancient Roman city near modern Naples in the Campania region of Italy, in the territory of the comune of Pompei. Pompeii, along with Herculaneum and many villas in the surrounding area (e.g. at Boscoreale, Stabiae), was buried under of volcanic ash and pumice in the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in AD 79. Many of the inhabitants were also buried before they could escape.\n\nThe catastrophe was described in a surviving letter by Pliny the Younger who saw the eruption from a distance and described the death of his uncle Pliny the Elder, an admiral of the Roman fleet, who tried to rescue citizens. The site was eventually lost until its initial rediscovery in 1599 and broader rediscovery almost 150 years later by Spanish engineer Rocque Joaquin de Alcubierre in 1748. The city has been largely preserved because of lack of air and moisture. The artefacts preserved provide an extraordinarily detailed insight into the life of the city. During excavations liquid plaster was used to fill the voids in the ash that once held human and animal bodies, giving often gruesome images of their last moments.\n\nPompeii has been a tourist destination for over 250 years. Today it has UNESCO World Heritage Site status and is one of the most popular tourist attractions in Italy, with approximately 2.5 million visitors every year.\n\nExcavations recommenced in 2018 in the unexplored \"Regio V\" area of the city and new discoveries are being reported.\n\nPompeii () in Latin is a second declension plural (\"Pompeiī, -ōrum\"). According to Theodor Kraus, \"The root of the word Pompeii would appear to be the Oscan word for the number five, \"pompe\", which suggests that either the community consisted of five hamlets or, perhaps, it was settled by a family group (\"gens Pompeia\").\"\n\nThe ruins of Pompeii are located near the modern suburban town of Pompei (nowadays written with one 'i'). It stands on a spur formed by a lava flow to the north of the mouth of the Sarno River (known in ancient times as the Sarnus).\n\nThe city had suffered from other seismic events before the eruption. Three sheets of sediment have also been found on top of the lava that lies below the city which were created by large landslides, perhaps triggered by extended rainfall.\nToday it is some distance inland, but in ancient times was nearer to the coast. Pompeii is about away from Mount Vesuvius. It covered a total of 64 to and was home to approximately 11,000 to 11,500 people on the basis of household counts. It was a major city in the region of Campania.\n\nArchaeology has shown that the town was founded in the 7th or 6th century BC by the Osci or Oscans, a people of central Italy, on what was an important crossroad between Cumae, Nola and Stabiae. It had already been used as a safe port by Greek and Phoenician sailors. According to Strabo, Pompeii was also captured by the Etruscans, and recent excavations have shown the presence of Etruscan inscriptions and a 6th-century BC necropolis. Pompeii was captured for the first time by the Greek colony of Cumae, allied with Syracuse, between 525 and 474 BC.\n\nIn the 5th century BC, the Samnites conquered it (and all the other towns of Campania); the new rulers imposed their architecture and enlarged the town. After the Samnite Wars (4th century BC), Pompeii was forced to accept the status of \"socium\" of Rome, maintaining, however, linguistic and administrative autonomy. In the 4th century BC it was fortified with walls. Pompeii remained faithful to Rome during the Second Punic War.\n\nThe Temple of Apollo was built in the 2nd century BC as the city's most important religious structure.\n\nPompeii took part in the war that the towns of Campania initiated against Rome, but in 89 BC it was besieged by Sulla. Although the battle-hardened troops of the Social League, headed by Lucius Cluentius, helped in resisting the Romans, in 89 BC Pompeii was forced to surrender after the conquest of Nola, culminating in many of Sulla's veterans being given land and property, while many of those who went against Rome were ousted from their homes. It became a Roman colony with the name of \"Colonia Cornelia Veneria Pompeianorum\". The town became an important passage for goods that arrived by sea and had to be sent toward Rome or southern Italy along the nearby Appian Way.\n\nIt was fed with water by a spur from Aqua Augusta (Naples) built c. 20 BC by Agrippa; the main line supplied several other large towns, and finally the naval base at Misenum. The castellum in Pompeii is well preserved, and includes many details of the distribution network and its controls.\n\nThe excavated city offers a snapshot of Roman life in the 1st century, frozen at the moment it was buried in Autumn AD 79. The forum, the baths, many houses, and some out-of-town villas like the Villa of the Mysteries remain well preserved.\n\nDetails of everyday life are preserved. For example, on the floor of one of the houses (Sirico's), a famous inscription \"Salve, lucru\" (\"Welcome, profit\") indicates a trading company owned by two partners, Sirico and Nummianus (but this could be a nickname, since \"nummus\" means \"coin; money\"). Other houses provide details concerning professions and categories, such as for the \"laundry\" workers (\"Fullones\"). Wine jars have been found bearing what is apparently the world's earliest known marketing pun (technically a blend), \"Vesuvinum\" (combining Vesuvius and the Latin for wine, vinum).\n\nThe numerous graffiti carved on the walls and inside rooms provides a wealth of information regarding Vulgar Latin, the form of Latin spoken colloquially rather than the literary language of the classical writers.\nIn 89 BC, after the final occupation of the city by Roman General Lucius Cornelius Sulla, Pompeii was finally annexed by the Roman Republic. During this period, Pompeii underwent a vast process of infrastructural development, most of which was built during the Augustan period. These include an amphitheatre, a palaestra with a central natatorium (cella natatoria) or swimming pool and an aqueduct that provided water for more than 25 street fountains, at least four public baths, and a large number of private houses (domūs) and businesses. The amphitheatre has been cited by modern scholars as a model of sophisticated design, particularly in the area of crowd control.\n\nThe aqueduct branched through three main pipes from the Castellum Aquae, where the waters were collected before being distributed to the city. In extreme drought, the water supply would first fail to reach the public baths (the least vital service), then private houses and businesses—and if there were no water flow at all, the system would fail to supply the public fountains (the most vital service) in the streets of Pompeii. The pools in Pompeii were mostly for decoration.\n\nThe large number of well-preserved frescoes provide information on everyday life and have been a major advance in art history of the ancient world, with the innovation of the Pompeian Styles (First/Second/Third Style). Some aspects of the culture were distinctly erotic, including frequent use of the phallus as apotropaion or good-luck charm in various types of decoration. A large collection of erotic votive objects and frescoes were found at Pompeii. Many were removed and kept until recently in a secret collection at the University of Naples.\n\nAt the time of the eruption, the town may have had some 11,000 inhabitants, and was located in an area where Romans had holiday villas. William Abbott explains, \"At the time of the eruption, Pompeii had reached its high point in society as many Romans frequently visited Pompeii on vacations.\" It is the only ancient town of which the whole topographic structure is known precisely as it was, with no later modifications or additions. Due to the difficult terrain, it was not distributed on a regular plan as most Roman towns were, but its streets are straight and laid out in a grid in the Roman tradition. They are laid with polygonal stones, and have houses and shops on both sides of the street. It followed its decumanus (main east/west road) and its cardo (main north/south road), centred on the forum.\n\nModern archaeologists have excavated garden sites and urban domains to reveal the agricultural staples in Pompeii’s economy prior to AD 79. Pompeii was fortunate to have a fruitful, fertile region of soil for harvesting a variety of crops. The soils surrounding Mount Vesuvius even preceding its eruption have been revealed to have good water-holding capabilities, implying access to productive agriculture. The Tyrrhenian Sea’s airflow provided hydration to the soil despite the hot, dry climate.\n\nThe rural areas surrounding Pompeii had abundant agricultural land that was very fertile and could produce much larger quantities of goods than the city needed. Some speculate that much of the flat land in Campania, surrounding the areas of Pompeii was dedicated to grain and wheat production. Cereal, barley, wheat, and millet were all produced by the locals in Pompeii. These grains, along with wine and olive oil, were produced in abundance for export to other regions.\n\nEvidence of wine imported nationally from Pompeii in its most prosperous years can be found from recovered artefacts such as wine bottles in Rome. For this reason, vineyards were of utmost importance to Pompeii’s economy. Agricultural policymaker Columella suggested that each vineyard in Rome produced a quota of three cullei of wine per jugerum, otherwise the vineyard would be uprooted. The nutrient-rich lands near Pompeii were extremely efficient at this and were often able to exceed these requirements by a steep margin, therefore providing the incentive for local wineries to establish themselves. While wine was exported for Pompeii’s economy, the majority of the other agricultural goods were likely produced in quantities relevant to the city’s consumption.\n\nRemains of large formations of constructed wineries were found in Forum Boarium, covered by cemented casts from the eruption of Vesuvius. It is speculated that these historical vineyards are strikingly similar in structure to the modern day vineyards across Italy. Water depressions have also been found in close proximity to the wineries and served as water wells for the produce and livestock.\n\nCarbonised food plant remains, roots, seeds and pollens, have been found from gardens in Pompeii, Herculaneum and from the Roman villa at Torre Annunziata. They revealed that emmer wheat, Italian millet, common millet, walnuts, pine nuts, chestnuts, hazel nuts, chickpeas, bitter vetch, broad beans, olives, figs, pears, onions, garlic, peaches, carob, grapes, and dates were consumed. All except the dates could have been produced locally.\n\nBesides the forum, many other services were found: the \"Macellum\" (great food market), the \"Pistrinum\" (mill), the \"Thermopolium\" (sort of bar that served cold and hot beverages), and \"cauponae\" (small restaurants). An amphitheatre and two theatres have been found, along with a palaestra or gymnasium. A hotel (of 1,000 square metres) was found a short distance from the town; it is now nicknamed the \"Grand Hotel Murecine\". Geothermal energy supplied channelled district heating for baths and houses. At least one building, the Lupanar, was dedicated to prostitution.\n\nIn 2002, another discovery at the mouth of the Sarno River near Sarno revealed that the port also was populated and that people lived in palafittes (stilt-houses), within a system of channels that suggested a likeness to Venice to some scientists.\n\nThe inhabitants of Pompeii had long been used to minor quaking (indeed, the writer Pliny the Younger wrote that earth tremors \"were not particularly alarming because they are frequent in Campania\"), but on 5 February 62, a severe earthquake did considerable damage around the bay, and particularly to Pompeii. It is believed that the earthquake would have registered between about 5 and 6 on the Richter magnitude scale.\n\nOn that day in Pompeii, there were to be two sacrifices, as it was the anniversary of Augustus being named \"Father of the Nation\" and also a feast day to honour the guardian spirits of the city. Chaos followed the earthquake. Fires, caused by oil lamps that had fallen during the quake, added to the panic. Nearby cities of Herculaneum and Nuceria were also affected.\n\nTemples, houses, bridges, and roads were destroyed. It is believed that almost all buildings in the city of Pompeii were affected. In the days after the earthquake, anarchy ruled the city, where theft and starvation plagued the survivors. In the time between 62 and the eruption in 79, some rebuilding was done, but some of the damage had still not been repaired at the time of the eruption. Although it is unknown how many, a considerable number of inhabitants moved to other cities within the Roman Empire while others remained and rebuilt.\n\nAn important field of current research concerns structures that were being restored at the time of the eruption (presumably damaged during the earthquake of 62). Some of the older, damaged paintings could have been covered with newer ones, and modern instruments are being used to catch a glimpse of the long hidden frescoes. The probable reason why these structures were still being repaired around 17 years after the earthquake was the increasing frequency of smaller quakes that led up to the eruption.\n\nBy the 1st century AD, Pompeii was one of a number of towns near the base of the volcano, Mount Vesuvius. The area had a substantial population, which had grown prosperous from the region's renowned agricultural fertility. Many of Pompeii's neighbouring communities, most famously Herculaneum, also suffered damage or destruction during the 79 eruption.\n\nA multidisciplinary volcanological and bio-anthropological study of the eruption products and victims, merged with numerical simulations and experiments, indicates that at Pompeii and surrounding towns heat was the main cause of death of people, previously believed to have died by ash suffocation. The results of the study, published in 2010, show that exposure to at least hot surges (known as pyroclastic flows) at a distance of from the vent was sufficient to cause instant death, even if people were sheltered within buildings. The people and buildings of Pompeii were covered in up to 12 different layers of tephra, in total deep, which rained down for about six hours.\n\nPliny the Younger provided a first-hand account of the eruption of Mount Vesuvius from his position across the Bay of Naples at Misenum but written 25 years after the event. His uncle, Pliny the Elder, with whom he had a close relationship, died while attempting to rescue stranded victims. As admiral of the fleet, Pliny the Elder had ordered the ships of the Imperial Navy stationed at Misenum to cross the bay to assist evacuation attempts. Volcanologists have recognised the importance of Pliny the Younger's account of the eruption by calling similar events \"Plinian\". It had long been thought that the eruption was an August event based on one version of the letter but another version gives a date of the eruption as late as 23 November. A later date is consistent with a charcoal inscription at the site, discovered in 2018, which includes the date of 17 October and which must have been recently written.\n\nFurther support for an October/November eruption is found in the fact that people buried in the ash appear to have been wearing heavier clothing than the light summer clothes typical of August. The fresh fruit and vegetables in the shops are typical of Octoberand conversely the summer fruit typical of August was already being sold in dried, or conserved form. Wine fermenting jars had been sealed, which would have happened around the end of October. Coins found in the purse of a woman buried in the ash include one with a 15th imperatorial acclamation among the emperor's titles. These coins could not have been minted before the second week of September.\n\nAfter thick layers of ash covered Pompeii and Herculaneum, they were abandoned and eventually their names and locations were forgotten. The first time any part of them was unearthed was in 1599, when the digging of an underground channel to divert the river Sarno ran into ancient walls covered with paintings and inscriptions. The architect Domenico Fontana was called in; he unearthed a few more frescoes, then covered them over again, and nothing more came of the discovery. A wall inscription had mentioned a \"decurio Pompeii\" (\"the town councillor of Pompeii\") but its reference to the long-forgotten Roman city was missed.\n\nFontana's covering over the paintings has been seen both as a broad-minded act of preservation for later times, and as censorship in view of the frequent sexual content of such paintings, as he would have known that paintings of the hedonistic kind later found in some Pompeian villas were not considered in good taste in the climate of the counter-reformation.\n\nHerculaneum was properly rediscovered in 1738 by workmen digging for the foundations of a summer palace for the King of Naples, Charles of Bourbon. Pompeii was rediscovered as the result of intentional excavations in 1748 by the Spanish military engineer Rocque Joaquin de Alcubierre. These towns have since been excavated to reveal many intact buildings and wall paintings. Charles of Bourbon took great interest in the findings even after becoming king of Spain because the display of antiquities reinforced the political and cultural power of Naples.\n\nKarl Weber directed the first real excavations; he was followed in 1764 by military engineer Franscisco la Vega. Franscisco la Vega was succeeded by his brother, Pietro, in 1804. During the French occupation Pietro worked with Christophe Saliceti.\n\nGiuseppe Fiorelli took charge of the excavations in 1863. During early excavations of the site, occasional voids in the ash layer had been found that contained human remains. It was Fiorelli who realised these were spaces left by the decomposed bodies and so devised the technique of injecting plaster into them to recreate the forms of Vesuvius's victims. This technique is still in use today, with a clear resin now used instead of plaster because it is more durable, and does not destroy the bones, allowing further analysis.\n\nThe discovery of erotic art in Pompeii and Herculaneum left the archaeologists with a dilemma – between the mores of sexuality in ancient Rome\nand in Counter-Reformation Europe lay a clash of cultures. An unknown number of discoveries were hidden away again. A wall fresco depicting Priapus, the ancient god of sex and fertility, with his extremely enlarged penis, was covered with plaster. An older reproduction was locked away \"out of prudishness\" and opened only on request—and only rediscovered in 1998 due to rainfall. In 2018, an ancient fresco depicting an erotic scene of \"Leda and the Swan\" was discovered at Pompeii.\n\nA large number of artefacts from the buried cities are preserved in the Naples National Archaeological Museum. In 1819, when King Francis visited the Pompeii exhibition there with his wife and daughter, he was so embarrassed by the erotic artwork that he decided to have it locked away in a so-called \"secret cabinet\" (\"gabinetto segreto\"), a gallery within the museum accessible only to \"people of mature age and respected morals\". Re-opened, closed, re-opened again and then closed again for nearly 100 years, the Naples \"Secret Museum\" was briefly made accessible again at the end of the 1960s (the time of the sexual revolution) and was finally re-opened for viewing in 2000. Minors are still allowed entry only in the presence of a guardian or with written permission.\n\nPompeii has been a popular tourist destination for over 250 years; it was on the Grand Tour. By 2008, it was attracting almost 2.6 million visitors per year, making it one of the most popular tourist sites in Italy. It is part of a larger Vesuvius National Park and was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1997. To combat problems associated with tourism, the governing body for Pompeii, the Soprintendenza Archaeological di Pompei, have begun issuing new tickets that allow for tourists to also visit cities such as Herculaneum and Stabiae as well as the Villa Poppaea, to encourage visitors to see these sites and reduce pressure on Pompeii.\n\nPompeii is also a driving force behind the economy of the nearby town of Pompei. Many residents are employed in the tourism and hospitality business, serving as taxi or bus drivers, waiters or hotel operators. The ruins can be easily reached on foot from \"Pompei Scavi-Villa dei Misteri station\" by Circumvesuviana commuter rail Naples – Sorrento route , directly at the ancient site. There are also car parks nearby.\n\nExcavations in the site have generally ceased due to the moratorium imposed by the superintendent of the site, Professor Pietro Giovanni Guzzo. Additionally, the site is generally less accessible to tourists, with less than a third of all buildings open in the 1960s being available for public viewing today. Nevertheless, the sections of the ancient city open to the public are extensive, and tourists can spend several days exploring the whole site.\n\nObjects buried beneath Pompeii were well-preserved for almost 2,000 years. The lack of air and moisture let objects remain underground with little to no deterioration. Once excavated, the site provided a wealth of source material and evidence for analysis, giving detail into the lives of the Pompeiians. However, once exposed, Pompeii has been subject to both natural and man-made forces, which have rapidly increased deterioration.\n\nWeathering, erosion, light exposure, water damage, poor methods of excavation and reconstruction, introduced plants and animals, tourism, vandalism and theft have all damaged the site in some way. Two-thirds of the city has been excavated, but the remnants of the city are rapidly deteriorating.\n\nThe concern for conservation has continually troubled archaeologists. The ancient city was included in the 1996 World Monuments Watch by the World Monuments Fund, and again in 1998 and in 2000. In 1996 the organisation claimed that Pompeii \"desperately need[ed] repair\" and called for the drafting of a general plan of restoration and interpretation. The organisation supported conservation at Pompeii with funding from American Express and the Samuel H. Kress Foundation.\n\nToday, funding is mostly directed into conservation of the site; however, due to the expanse of Pompeii and the scale of the problems, this is inadequate in halting the slow decay of the materials. An estimated US$335 million is needed for all necessary work on Pompeii. A recent study has recommended an improved strategy for interpretation and presentation of the site as a cost-effective method of improving its conservation and preservation in the short term.\n\nIn June 2013 UNESCO declared: If restoration and preservation works “fail to deliver substantial progress in the next two years,” Pompeii could be placed on the List of World Heritage in Danger.\n\nThe 2,000-year-old Schola Armatorum (House of the Gladiators) collapsed on 6 November 2010. The structure was not open to visitors, but the outside was visible to tourists. There was no immediate determination as to what caused the building to collapse, although reports suggested water infiltration following heavy rains might have been responsible. There has been fierce controversy after the collapse, with accusations of neglect.\n\nPompeii was the setting for the British comedy television series \"Up Pompeii!\" and the movie of the series. Pompeii also featured in the second episode of the fourth season of revived BBC science fiction series \"Doctor Who\", named \"The Fires of Pompeii\", which featured Caecilius as a character.\n\nIn 1971, the rock band Pink Floyd filmed a live concert titled \"\", in which they performed six songs in the ancient Roman amphitheatre in the city. The audience consisted only of the film's production crew and some local children.\n\nSiouxsie and tbe Banshees wrote and recorded the punk-inflected dance song “Cities in Dust”, which describes the disaster that befell Pompeii and Herculaneum in A.D. 79. The song appears on their album \"Tinderbox\", released in 1985, on Polydor Records. The jacket of the single remix of the song features the plaster cast of the chained dog killed in Pompeii.\n\n\"Pompeii\" is a novel written by Robert Harris (published in 2003) featuring the account of the aquarius' race to fix the broken aqueduct in the days leading up to the eruption of Vesuvius, inspired by actual events and people.\n\n\"Pompeii\" is a song by the British band Bastille, released 24 February 2013. The lyrics refer to the city and the eruption of Mount Vesuvius.\n\n\"Pompeii\" is a 2014 German-Canadian historical disaster film produced and directed by Paul W. S. Anderson.\n\nIn 2016, 45 years after the Pink Floyd recordings, band guitarist David Gilmour returned to the Pompeii amphiteatre to perform a live concert for his Rattle That Lock world tour. This event was considered the first one in the amphiteatre to feature an audience since the AD 79 eruption of Vesuvius.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45324522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45324522", "title": "Rest Energy (performance piece)", "text": "Rest Energy (performance piece)\n\nRest Energy is a 1980 performance art piece created and performed by then-performance artist duo Marina Abramović and Ulay and recorded in Amsterdam. Four minutes in duration, Abramović has described it as one of two of the most difficult pieces she has ever done, saying \n\nThe piece is in the collection of the Netherlands Media Art Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "1566646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1566646", "title": "Richard Farley", "text": "Richard Farley\n\nRichard Wade Farley (born July 25, 1948) is an American convicted mass murderer. A former employee of ESL Incorporated in Sunnyvale, California, he stalked his co-worker Laura Black for four years beginning in 1984. Black obtained a temporary restraining order against him on February 2, 1988, with a court date set for February 17, 1988 to make the order permanent.\n\nOn February 16, 1988, Richard Farley shot and killed seven people at ESL and wounded four others, including Laura Black. He was convicted of seven counts of first degree murder, and is currently on death row at San Quentin.\n\nRichard Farley was born July 25, 1948 in Texas. He was the oldest of six children. His father was in the military, therefore the family frequently relocated, and eventually settled in California. He graduated from high school in 1966 and attended Santa Rosa Junior College. Farley then joined the United States Navy in 1967 where he stayed for ten years. After his discharge in 1977, Farley began working as a software technician at ESL Inc., a defense contractor in Sunnyvale, California.\n\nIn April 1984, Richard Farley met 22-year-old Laura Black, who also worked at ESL Inc. Farley was immediately smitten and later said that he instantly fell in love with Black. Farley began leaving gifts, including letters and homemade baked goods, on Laura Black's desk and asked her out numerous times. Black repeatedly refused the invitations and later said in an interview that she \"...tried really to ignore him but to be cordial\". Despite her refusals, Farley persisted; he began calling her desk every few hours as well as showing up at Black's aerobics class. By providing false information to the ESL HR department through pretexting, Farley was able to obtain Black's home address and home phone number. Farley was also known to have befriended the custodial department in an attempt to copy keys to Black's desk so he could rifle through her files to gain an insight into her life. He was also known to have pried through confidential personnel files of Black through false pretenses.\n\nDuring this time, Farley was sending one or two letters to Black a week. Though there were periods of time during which the letters would cease, in total Richard Farley sent about two hundred letters over a period of four years, with the final letter sent from his prison cell after his rampage at ESL. Black moved four times during those four years, but Farley was able to obtain her address every time she did so. Farley even doctored photos of him and Black being together and mailed them to her.\n\nIn fall of 1985, Black asked the Human Resources Department at ESL for help. ESL ordered Farley to attend psychological counseling sessions, and despite attending these sessions, his harassment of Black continued. By spring of 1986, Farley was threatening fellow ESL employees. Because of his poor work performance, his employment with ESL was officially terminated in May 1986. He had been working for ESL for nine years and spent several months stalking Black full-time, then found work at a rival company, Covalent Systems Corporation in Sunnyvale.\n\nLaura Black filed for a temporary restraining order against Farley on February 2, 1988 and it was granted by a family court judge. A court date was set for February 17, 1988 to see if the restraining order should be made permanent.\n\nFarley purchased a shotgun along with various other weapons and equipment. Numerous pistols were also at his disposal along with a total of over 3,000 rounds of extra ammunition. The restraining order did not prevent him from buying weapons during that time. He also owned a variety of other weapons which were not present during the shooting at ESL, including a Mossberg shotgun barrel and a Ruger .22LR carbine. On February 9, 1988, he left a package with Black's attorney, claiming to have evidence that he and Black had a longstanding relationship. The package included items such as photographs purportedly showing Black and Farley on dates, a garage door opener to Black's house, and hotel and credit card receipts. Richard Farley even claimed that Black kept a secret stash of cocaine that they shared once. Black's attorney dismissed the package as utter fabrications.\n\nOn the day before the court date, February 16, 1988, Farley drove his motorhome to the ESL parking lot in Sunnyvale, California. He later claimed he waited for Black to leave work so he could convince her to rescind the restraining order. If she refused, he would kill himself. At about 3:00 p.m., Farley loaded up his various guns, including a 12-gauge Benelli Riot semi-automatic shotgun, a Ruger M-77 .22-250 rifle with a scope, a Mossberg 12-gauge pump-action shotgun, a Sentinel .22 WMR revolver, a Smith & Wesson .357 Magnum revolver, a Browning .380 ACP pistol, and a Smith & Wesson 9mm pistol. He also had a foot-long buck knife and smoke bomb and put on a bulletproof vest, inserted earplugs, and put on a leather glove.\n\nCarrying over 1,000 rounds of ammunition with him, he then approached the building while shooting toward bystanders. He entered into a side door by shooting through the glass, and shot at employees he encountered while heading toward Black's office on the second floor. Several employees were killed by his shots as he made his way through his former employer's building. Arriving at Black's office, he opened her door which she slammed in his face. He fired a shotgun round through the door, hitting her in the left shoulder and collapsing a lung. The injury sent her unconscious to the floor while Farley moved on.\n\nFarley then held a police SWAT team at bay for five hours by moving from room to room so the SWAT snipers could not target him. Meanwhile, Black regained consciousness and managed to prevent her wound from bleeding further while she and other survivors hid from Farley. Black and other survivors eventually escaped, and Farley surrendered to police after requesting a sandwich and a soft drink. A total of seven people were killed by Farley with four more wounded, including Black. A total of 98 rounds were fired.\n\n\n\nThe next day, court commissioner Lois Kittle made the restraining order against Farley permanent and commented, \"Pieces of paper do not stop bullets.\"\n\nBlack survived, but was hospitalized for nineteen days. She continued to work for the same company. Farley wrote to her again from his prison cell, claiming that she had finally won.\n\nDuring trial, Farley admitted to the killings, but pled not guilty, claiming that he never planned to kill but only wished to get Black's attention or commit suicide in front of her for rejecting him. His attorney claimed that Farley was never a violent man and only had his judgment temporarily clouded by his obsession with Black, and that he would likely never kill again. Prior to the shooting, Farley did not have a criminal record.\n\nThe prosecution documented every step of the stalking, produced all the letters he sent, and documented his shotgun and ammunition purchases a week before his rampage at ESL, as well as his other weapons. All this amounted to extensive planning, which was evidence of premeditation.\n\nOn October 21, 1991, Farley was found guilty of all seven counts of first degree murder. On January 17, 1992, Superior Court Judge Joseph Biafore Jr. sentenced Farley to death. Because of California law, there were several automatic appeals. On July 2, 2009, the California Supreme Court upheld Farley's death sentence (\"People\" v \"Richard Farley\" (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1053). As of 2018, Farley is still on death row in San Quentin Prison.\n\nThis massacre helped prompt the State of California's 1990 passage of the United States of America's first anti-stalking laws nationwide.\n\nA movie, \"I Can Make You Love Me\" (also known as \"Stalking Laura\" in the United Kingdom) was made in 1993. Brooke Shields played Black and Richard Thomas played Farley.\n\nThe shooting incident is also the subject of a chapter of the book \"\" by Bill Lee, as well as a chapter in \"Obsession\" by John Douglas and Mark Olshaker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5922194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5922194", "title": "Scribble Jam", "text": "Scribble Jam\n\nScribble Jam was an annual hip hop music festival hosted in Cincinnati, Ohio. Dubbed \"America's largest hip hop festival\", sort of like Woodstock. it was co-founded in 1996 by \"Fat\" Nick Accurso, and Jason Brunson, founders of graffiti magazine \"Scribble\", and DJ Mr Dibbs, in the parking lot of a local nightclub. The following year's event benefitted from better publicity, and included MC, DJ and breakdance battles for the first time.\n\nIn 2000, with the addition of new partners Tony Heitz and Pase Rock, the festival grew in popularity, as tens of thousands of hip hop fans flocked to its grounds in early August. It has been known to attract up to 20,000 fans. In early April 2010, Scribble Jam organiser Kevin Beacham confirmed the persistent rumors that the event will not continue this year, citing the struggling economy and difficulty in securing funding as reasons.A kickstarter campaign is currently being held with the final goal being a 2014 Scribble Jam event.\n\nFor most of its existence, Scribble Jam refused corporate sponsorship, which Accurso explained as an attempt to keep the festival from being run by \"those who don't understand [hip hop] culture\", adding that outside marketing or promotion would \"defeat the purpose\" of the festival. By 2003, however, the festival had started accepting some corporate sponsors; that year's event was backed by Toyota/Scion.\n\nThe centerpieces of the Scribble Jam festival are the five competitions, four of which are designed to highlight the main aspects of hip hop culture. They include the emcee competition or freestyle battle, the DJ battle or scratching competition, the B-boy battle or breakdancing competition, the graff-writer or graffiti competition, and the beatbox competition. Historically, the most popular of the competitions has been the freestyle battle, although all aspects of hip hop culture are well represented. The festival expanded its initial 1996 emcee and b-boy competitions to include the DJ competition in 1998. In 2003 the beatbox competition was added to the line-up. In the last five years of the festival a Production competition was added to the festival line-up, and there were performances by guests including KRS-One, Eminem, Sage Francis, Atmosphere, Blueprint, Eyedea, Mr Dibbs, Little Brother and Living Legends which greatly increased the festival's popularity.\n\nAs of Scribble Jam's conclusion in 2008 there have been thirteen emcee champions, eleven DJ champions, thirteen B-Boy champions, and six beatbox champions.\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are only two production champions listed on the official Scribble Jam website: \n\n"}
{"id": "53339930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53339930", "title": "Sealioning", "text": "Sealioning\n\nSealioning (also spelled sea-lioning and sea lioning) is a type of trolling or harassment which consists of pursuing people with persistent requests for evidence or repeated questions, while maintaining a pretense of civility. The troll pretends ignorance and feigns politeness, so that if the target is provoked into making an angry response, the troll can then act as the aggrieved party. Sealioning can be performed by a single troll or by multiple ones acting in concert. The technique of sealioning has been compared to the Gish gallop and metaphorically described as a denial-of-service attack targeted at human beings.\n\nThe term originated with a 2014 strip of the webcomic \"Wondermark\", where a character expresses a dislike of sea lions and a sea lion intrudes to repeatedly ask the character to explain. \"Sea lion\" was quickly verbed, the term gained popularity as a way to describe online trolling, and it was used to describe some of the behavior of supporters of the Gamergate controversy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28843670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28843670", "title": "Society of Martha Washington", "text": "Society of Martha Washington\n\nThe Society of Martha Washington was formed in 1939, in Laredo, Texas. The Society hosts the Colonial Ball, which is an annual debutante ball where young women make their debut into society. The Colonial Ball is held at the Laredo Civic Center and is a part of a citywide festival called the Washington's Birthday Celebration, which takes place in February every year. The Society of Martha Washington helps Laredo present an image of “racial and national harmony” by working in conjunction with the Princess Pocahontas Council, and the Abrazo Children.\n\nMembership of the Society is exclusive, yet there is no discrimination based on race or ethnicity. Unlike the debutante balls from the early 1900s up north, where racial and ethnic differences were implied as a definition of social class, Modern Laredo's elite consists of bicultural individuals. The Society was founded with bicultural roots. As a result, a good number of the girls who are presented are Latinas. Members who are chosen for the Society usually come from a small group of old families.\n\nThe society chooses two prominent members of Laredo's society to portray President George and Martha Dandridge Washington. The debutantes that are presented every year as well as their escorts, either have family in the Society or are invited as guests. The participants portray contemporaries based on the story line, which changes every year, that come out to honor the President and his First Lady.\n\nEach debutant is dressed in an elaborate hand-made colonial dress. Color options must be approved by the Mistress of Wardrobe. The dress is composed of several parts which include: a corset, bloomers, a cage, a petticoat, and finally the dress itself. Most dresses are custom made in a collaboration between the debutant and the dressmaker. Linda Leyendecker Gutierrez, a gifted designer and experienced professional, is the official dressmaker for the pageant. Silks, satins, and velvets fabricated all over the world are uniquely hand picked and adorned with all types of beads, lace, and ribbon to create the perfect colonial debutante dress. The dresses can weigh up to because of the tremendous amounts of intricate beading.\n\n"}
{"id": "15793180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15793180", "title": "Solband", "text": "Solband\n\nSolband was a village in Balochistan, Pakistan, that was destroyed during the floods of 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "56091497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56091497", "title": "Space Rider", "text": "Space Rider\n\nThe Space RIDER (Space Reusable Integrated Demonstrator for Europe Return) is a planned uncrewed orbital spaceplane aiming to provide the European Space Agency (ESA) with affordable and routine access to space. Its expected maiden flight is for late 2021.\n\nDevelopment of Space RIDER is being lead by the Italian PRIDE programme in collaboration with ESA, and is the continuation of the Intermediate eXperimental Vehicle (IXV) experience, launched on 11 February 2015. The cost of this phase, not including the launcher, is at least $36.7 million.\n\nThe European Space Agency has a program called Future Launchers Preparatory Programme (FLPP), which made a call for submissions for a reusable spaceplane. One of the submissions was by the Italian Space Agency, that presented their own Programme for Reusable In-orbit Demonstrator in Europe (PRIME program) which went ahead to develop the precursor called Intermediate eXperimental Vehicle (IXV) and the resulting Space RIDER.\n\nFunding was initially approved by the ESA in 2016, with the project being lead by the Italian Aerospace Research Centre (CIRA). Thales Alenia Space and Lockheed Martin were tasked with completing the design by 2019. In November 2017, the ESA provided funding to Thales Alenia Space and Avio to build reentry and service modules, respectively. The European Space Agency has designated the Italian Aerospace Research Centre (CIRA) and Thales Alenia Space–Italia as co-prime contractors, which in turn manage a consortium of more than 20 European company operating in the space sector. The Italian Space Agency subsequently contracted with Virgin Galactic for a suborbital research flight on SpaceShipTwo for research related to Space RIDER.\n\nIn April 2018, ESA released an Announcement of Opportunity to fly small payloads onboard Space Rider's maiden flight. On completion of the two-month long mission, Space RIDER will return to Earth with the payloads stowed in its cargo bay. This qualification flight of Space RIDER will take place in late 2021, followed by several missions to demonstrate a range of capabilities and orbits, before handing over the project to the private sector. By 2025, the ESA plans to privatise the Space RIDER, with Arianespace the likely operator.\n\nThe Space RIDER design inherits technology developed for the earlier Intermediate eXperimental Vehicle, also within the Programme for Reusable In-orbit Demonstrator in Europe (PRIDE). The design team considered the trade-offs of using only a lifting body and also using optional wings or vertical fins. It was then decided in 2017 that the design should optimise the internal volume of the Vega rocket fairing, so its aerodynamic shape will be a simple lifting body, as tested on its predecessor, the IXV. 3-axis control is achieved by the use of rear flaps. \n\nSpace RIDER will have the potential to allow experiments in microgravity, such as exposure of materials to outer space and in-orbit validation of technologies, as well as deployment of small satellites. The re-entry module itself is a testbed for entry technologies as the IXV precursor was, so future improvements are envisioned, including point-to-point flights, even \"space tourism\".\n\nIn 2019, some parafoil guided landing tests will be performed by dropping a full-scale model from helicopters or balloons.\n\nSpace RIDER is designed to launch atop the Vega-C rocket, and its maiden flight will be from the French Guiana in 2021, to land on a runway on Santa Maria Island, in the Azores. The spacecraft is designed to conduct missions up to two months long in low Earth orbit with up to 800 kg of cargo. Activities for Phase-B2/C, covering the preliminary design review and the critical design review, started on 25 January 2018.\n\nUpon atmospheric entry, the lifting body shape will decelerate the spacecraft to subsonic speed (below Mach 0.8), when one or two drogue parachute will be deployed at about 15-12 km altitude to slow it further (to Mach 0.18 - 0.22) Then, a controllable gliding parachute called parafoil will be deployed to begin the controlled descent phase for a nearly horizontal touchdown (≈35 m/s) using no wheels. The landing concept is similar to the NASA X-38 landing system. \n\nFor orbits with inclination > 37°, landings will be performed at the Portuguese Santa Maria Island in the Azores archipelago. For lower inclination missions, French Guiana and Dutch Curaçao are being considered.\n\n"}
{"id": "6263859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6263859", "title": "Sports 2000", "text": "Sports 2000\n\nSports 2000 is a restricted-rules class of two-seat, mid-engined, open-cockpit, full-bodied sports-prototype racecar used largely in amateur road racing. Sometimes known as S2000 or S2, the class was developed by John Webb, then of the Brands Hatch racing circuit in England, as an affordable form of sports car racing, essentially a sports car version of Formula Ford 2000. The key attributes of the class were a body design reminiscent of two-liter Group 6 sports racing cars like the Chevron B21 and Lola T-212 but with an ultra-reliable and inexpensive drivetrain comprising a two-liter \"Pinto\" overhead camshaft engine with very limited allowed modifications and the well-proven, VW-based Hewland Mk 9 transaxle. S2000 aerodynamics continued to evolve beyond their 1970s Group 6 roots, with very 'slippery' cars featuring spats over the wheels becoming the norm.\n\nIn the UK S2000 was largely seen as an alternative to front-engined Clubmans racing, a class for amateurs who were often deeply involved in developing their own cars over periods of years. The category suffered due to the demise of FF2000 in the late 1980s, and further when Clubmans transformed into the rear-engined National Supersports category, but it has recently undergone something of a revival in both historic and contemporary forms as a (relatively) low-cost form of sports car racing.\n\nIn the US, while it continues to have popularity as an amateur race class within SCCA competition in the USA, at one point in the late 1980s and early 1990s, professional Sports 2000 racing was prevalent. One such series was the American Cities Racing League (ACRL) where the teams represented cities (primarily on the US West Coast) much as in stick-and-ball sports. Rather than individual drivers running for the championship, the two team drivers earned points for their sponsor city, a concept revived for the A1GP, where teams represent countries rather than cities. This series used the uprated Cosworth/Ford YAC engine. Another series was the North American Pro Series or NAPS which visited many of the classic roadrace circuits in the U.S. and was often a support race for IMSA weekends. Later this series became the Oldsmobile Pro Series running the Oldsmobile Quad 4 engine.\n\nIn Sports 2000 racing in the UK, the Pinto engine has recently been replaced with the Mazda-based Ford Duratec engine, although Pintos continue to compete as a separate class.\n\nIn South Africa, an innovative transverse engined version of the Sports 2000 participated in a highly successful national series throughout the 1990s.\n\nEarly Sports 2000 cars are now of a sufficient age that they are being welcomed by several vintage racing sanctioning bodies in the US.\n\nCompanies that manufactured Sports 2000 chassis include: Carbir, Chevron, Crossle, Lola, March, MCR, Reynard, Rotor, Royale, Shannon, Swift, Tiga Race Cars and Van Diemen.\n\n"}
{"id": "4017463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4017463", "title": "Summer Jam", "text": "Summer Jam\n\nSummer Jam is the annual hip-hop fest held in East Rutherford, New Jersey and sponsored by New York-based radio station Hot 97FM. Normally held in June, the concert features the most popular acts that hip-hop and R&B have to offer in a particular year.\n\nThe hip-hop summer festival format was originally pioneered and popularized by San Francisco radio station KMEL with their large-scale \"Summer Jam\" concerts from 1987 through the 1990s and present day. KMEL continues to host smaller versions of the event annually. Similarly, Los Angeles station KKBT held an annual \"Summer Jam\" hip-hop concert during the 1990s after hiring KMEL's Program Director in 1993. The concert was discontinued as the station switched formats.\n\nThe concert has increasingly become a scene of drug use and violence over the years. The most recent festival held on June 7, 2015 included a riot in the stadium parking lot. The disturbance began when crowds of people without tickets attempted to enter the stadium anyway by climbing over the fence and were stopped by New Jersey State Police. At this time, the decision to close all gates to the stadium was made and those in the parking lot were asked to leave. Instead of leaving, the crowd began throwing glass bottles and other objects at police. The police responded with riot gear, armored vehicles, and pepper spray. Multiple arrests were made.\n\n"}
{"id": "4408017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4408017", "title": "Televoting", "text": "Televoting\n\nTelevoting, telephone voting or phone voting is a method of decision making and opinion polling conducted by telephone. Televoting can also extend to voting by SMS text message via a mobile cell phone.\n\nTelevoting involves broadcasters providing an audience with different telephone numbers associated with contestants participating; the outcome is decided by the number of calls to each line. Televotes are most commonly used to determine weekly results in reality competitions, such as the \"Dancing with the Stars\", \"Idol\", and \"The X Factor\" franchises. \n\nIn 1997, the Eurovision Song Contest began to phase in public televoting to determine its winner, with a mass rollout beginning in 1998. Initially, televotes completely replaced the previous system, in which entries were scored by regional juries. These changes led to the increased prominence of \"bloc voting\"—in which a country's voting pattern would commonly favour neighbouring nations (such as Scandinavian, Baltic, Balkan, and CIS countries), and countries with similar cultures (UK and Ireland). From 2009 to 2015, most countries used a 50/50 split between a jury and televoting results. Since 2016, most countries still use a televoting process and a jury to determine the results, the votes are no longer combined and instead treated separately.\n\nA televote is initiated by random sampling of a population by means of random digit dialling. Those contacted are requested to volunteer to receive written background briefing materials regarding a particular issue, that have been prepared by a panel of representatives of different stakeholder groups affected by that issue, and incorporating various views or perspectives. Volunteers are requested to discuss the issue amongst their families and friends until they have reached a decision. At the conclusion of this period they are polled again by telephone in order to determine their views.\n\nTelevoting is a more cost-effective method of democratic deliberation than many alternatives such as deliberative polling, as it does not require the participants to meet in person.\n\nCommon to other deliberative democratic techniques, it also tends to produce more reasoned decisions than \"raw\" opinion polling, because participants are exposed to various perspectives other than their own in the briefing materials that they receive.\n\nTelevoting may be less effective than other methods of democratic deliberation in which a trained moderator or facilitator is available in person to ensure that groups seriously deliberate on the issue before them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9794108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9794108", "title": "The Carpenters...Space Encounters", "text": "The Carpenters...Space Encounters\n\nThe Carpenters...Space Encounters is a television special featuring the American pop duo The Carpenters. It was first shown on ABC on May 17, 1978.\n\n\"Space Encounters\" begins with Richard and Karen Carpenter performing \"Sweet, Sweet Smile\" in their recording studio, assisted by Charlie Callas. As they are performing, we see that they are being observed by the occupants of an alien spaceship (John Davidson and Suzanne Somers) who are on their way to Earth to meet The Carpenters. After Richard and Karen finish the song, the lights in the studio begin to flicker uncontrollably and musical instruments begin to move and play by themselves. At that moment, John teleports down to the studio and tells Richard and Karen how the people from his planet lack the ability to make music and he requests their help. Richard and Karen tell John about their earlier days in music and John uses his hi-tech pocket video screen to show The Carpenters performing \"Fun Fun Fun\" and \"Dancing in the Street\". After watching them, John tells them he wants to try singing himself and teleports to a more romantic setting to perform \"Just the Way You Are\".\n\nThe Carpenters continue to reminisce about their earlier recordings and they perform \"Goofus\" in an old garage, similar to the one in which they recorded their first record in.\n\nRichard, on piano, then performs the Space Encounters Medley, which includes the themes to \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\" and \"Star Wars\", on stage with a full orchestra, complete with laser and starlight effects.\n\nBack in the recording studio, Karen and John continue to reminisce about her early days in music and she performs \"Little Girl Blue\". Afterwards, everybody teleports up to the spaceship's own nightclub, \"The Galaxy Room\", where Richard plays \"Piano Picker\", and Karen and Suzanne perform \"Man Smart, Woman Smarter\". Karen and John then perform \"The Old-Fashioned Way\" and then the whole cast (complete with dancers) perform a disco-medley including \"The Hustle\", \"Boogie Nights\" and \"I Could Have Danced All Night\".\n\nThe Carpenters then perform \"Calling Occupants of Interplanetary Craft\" and the show ends with an instrumental version of \"We've Only Just Begun\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32080830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32080830", "title": "The Observer (Uganda)", "text": "The Observer (Uganda)\n\nThe Weekly Observer is a Ugandan weekly newspaper headquartered in Kampala. It is one of the largest privately owned papers in the country. In 2007, its reporter Richard M Kavuma won the CNN Multichoice African Journalist of the Year award. The newspaper was founded in 2004 and celebrated 10 years of existence in March 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22326682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22326682", "title": "Triplemanía III-C", "text": "Triplemanía III-C\n\nTriplemanía III-C was the third part of the third Triplemanía professional wrestling show promoted by Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA). 1995 was second year to feature the \"Triplemanía Series\" of shows with 3, referred to as III-A, III-B and III-C, where this was the third and final of the series in 1995. The show was the seventh overall show held under the Triplemanía name. The show took place on June 30, 1995 in Madero, Mexico. The Main event featured a Best two out of three falls \"Lucha de Apuestas\" \"Mask vs. Mask\" match where friends and tag team partners Super Caló and Winners put their masks on the line in the match.\n\nInitial plans for the 1995 Triplemanía III series of events included a storyline where \"Los Gringos Locos\" members Eddy Guerrero and Art Barr would turn on teammate Konnan in the fall of 1994. This was supposed to turn \"técnico\" and set up a \"Luchas de Apuestas\", or bet match, between Konnan and Art Barr where both would put their hair on the line. AAA booker Antonio Peña was hoping to actually sell out the 130,000 seat Estadio Azteca in Mexico City. The plans never came to fruition as Art Barr died suddenly on November 23, 1994 before the storyline even had a chance to start. Barr's death, coupled with the Mexican peso crisis in 1994 led to Guerrero leaving AAA to work in the United States instead and thus made a \"Los Gringos Locos\" storyline impossible to piece together. AAA still planned on making the 1995 Triplemanía III event a series of shows, spread out over several weeks, serving as the Super Bowl of AAA's year.\n\nThe event featured six professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either villains (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico) or fan favorites (\"técnicos\" in Mexico) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nOne of the main storylines that would highlight all three Triplemanía III shows was the ongoing storyline between two teams, the masked, young \"técnico\" team of Super Caló and Winners, fighting against the\"rudo\" team known as \"Los Diabolicos\", in this case the two masked members Marabunta and Ángel Mortal. The basic storyline centered on two the \"veteran\" wrestlers in \"Los Diabolicos\" getting annoyed with the fan reaction Super Caló and Winners were getting without, in their opinion, earning it by proving themselves in the ring. In the weeks prior to Triplemanía \"Los Diabolicos\" had faced off against Super Caló and Winners, often in six-man tag team match with the third \"Diabolic\" Mr. Condor against Caló, Winners and various young \"tecnicos\". During those matches \"Los Diabolicos\" would often either steal the mask of their opponents, or rip the masks apart during their matches. This led to all four wrestlers signing a contract for a series of \"Lucha de Apuesta\", or bet matches, where each competitor would wager their mask on the outcome of the match. In \"Lucha Libre\" a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match is viewed as more prestigious than a championship match and is often promoted as the main event of major shows. The three match series would mean that three out of the four wrestlers would be unmasked by the time the third and final Triplemanía III match was over. At Triplemanía III-A Winners and Marabunta won their match, which resulted in Super Caló later pining Ángel Mortal to unmask him. The victory for Winners and Marabunta did not mean that their masks were safe, instead it meant that the two had to wrestle in the main event of TripleManía III-B under \"Lucha de Apuestas\" rules. At TripleManía III-B Super Caló defeated and unmasked Marabunta. Due to the contract that Winners and Super Caló had agreed to the tag team partners, and friends would be forced to wrestle each other, defending their masks in the main event of TripleManía III-B.\n\nWinners and Super Caló remained friends and occasional tag team partners after Winners lost his mask to Super Caló. Unmasked he became very popular with the female fans in the audience over the next year, but by the fall of 1996 Winners disappeared from AAA. Antonio Peña decided that the man behind the Winners character, Andrés Palomeque González, would be given a new character, a masked character known as \"Abismo Negro\" (\"Black Abyss\") a \"rudo\" character that was the complete opposite of the Winners character he had previously played. 12 years after Super Caló won the mask of his friend he found himself involved in another \"Relevos Suicidas\", this time at Triplemanía XV, this time Super Caló and Super Fly lost to Laredo Kid and Gran Apache and were forced to fight for their masks. On the night Super Fly pinned his friend and some times tag team partner Super Caló to force him to unmask and reveal his real name, Rafael García.\n\nIn the fall of 1995 Konnan and several other AAA workers created \"Promotora Mexicana de Lucha Libre\" (PROMLL), later named Promo Azteca, talking a large number of AAA main stays with them. Initially they worked with AAA, acting more as a booking agency than a separate promotion, but by 1996 Promo Azteca broke off their relationship with AAA completely.\n\nIn the months following Triplemanía III-C the Mattel corporation threatened an infringement lawsuit by AAA use of the \"Los Power Raiders\" characters, citing that they were direct copies of the Power Rangers franchise. AAA abandoned the \"Power Raiders\" concept, creating all original characters known as \"Los Cadetes del Espacio\" (\"The Space Cadets\") with Venum, Ludxor, Discovery, Frisbee and Boomerang.\n\nJohn Molinario, who writes about wrestling for the Canadian Online Explorer, called the three TripleManía III shows \"an outstanding TripleMania series\" when reviewing the first five years of AAA's Triplemanía in a 2000 article.\n\n"}
{"id": "23912104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23912104", "title": "Warsaw International Film Festival", "text": "Warsaw International Film Festival\n\nWarsaw Film Festival () is a major film festival held every October in Warsaw, Poland. The festival has been held every year since 1985.\n\nThe festival is host to the International Federation of Film Critics awards for enterprising filmmaking in Central Europe and beyond (i.e. Denmark and Israel). The 30th edition took place between 10 October to 19 October 2014.\n\nThe programme consists of the following sections:\n\nAll the films presented, regardless of the section (competitive or non-competitive), are eligible for the Audience Award.\n\n\n\n"}
