{"id": "1790989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1790989", "title": "Abrene County", "text": "Abrene County\n\nThe Abrene County () was an administrative district in the Republic of Latvia with an area of 4292 square kilometers, formed in 1925 from the northern part of the Ludza district and the western part of the Ostrov region as the Jaunlatgale (New Latgale) district, but this was renamed Abrene in 1938. The district included the towns of Balvi and Abrene and 14 villages, and the civil parishes (Latvian: \"pagasti\") comprising the district were reorganized thrice (there were 12 in 1929, 13 in 1935, and 15 in 1940). 6 eastern civil parishes – Purvmalas (Bakovo), Linavas (Linovo), Kacēnu (Kachanovo), Upmalas (Upmala), Gauru (Gavry) and Augšpils (Vyshgorodok), as well as the town of Abrene (a total area of 1293.6 square kilometers with 35,524 inhabitants) – were annexed to the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic in 1945. This part of the former Abrene district is now part of Russia as the Pytalovsky District of Pskov Oblast, bordering Latvia. \"Abrene region\" in current usage very often treats the area joined to Russia as though it had comprised the entire district, which can be misleading; nearly three-quarters of the former district are in Latvia, but many treatments of the transfer of the eastern \"pagasti\" cite interbellum demographic statistics for the whole of the region, rather than by civil parish.\n\nThe Abrene region was long a point of contact and friction between the Finno-Ugric, Baltic, and Slavic languages, cultures, tribes, and countries. The Russian name for the town and region, Pytalovo, probably derives from the Finno-Ugric \"tulva\", \"tributary, flood\"; the region was part of Tolowa (or Tholowa; Latvian: \"Tālava\"), a kingdom of the northern Latgalians, which for a period paid tribute to Mstislav the Brave of Smolensk (from ca. 1180); the area became part of Livonia in 1224.\n\nIn the 1270s the area became a part of Livonia. The Balts east of a slight ridge at Viļaka were gradually Russified from the 15–16th centuries, but the philologists August Johann Gottfried Bielenstein and Kārlis Mīlenbahs, conducting linguistic field research in the area in the late 19th and early 20th century, found that many people, called \"Russian Latvians\" by the local Russians, still spoke the High Latvian dialect.\n\nAfter the Bolsheviks were driven from what is now Latvia and Soviet Russia recognized Latvia's independence, in August 1920, the border was not drawn alongsode ethnographic lines: once the frontier was negotiated (the border was not finalized until April 7, 1923) large Russian and Belarusian communities were left on the Latvian side. Strategic concerns also played a part, because of an important railway junction within the Abrene region. The historian Edgars Andersons explains (in \"Latvijas vēsture 1914–1920\" [Stockholm: Daugava, 1976]): \"Especially in the north, the Russians had agreed to the Latvians' strategic demands, not complaining about the ethnographic principle having been disregarded. Several civil parishes were completely Russian.\"\n\nThe population of the entire district in the census of 1935, divided by ethnicity, was as follows: 60,145 Latvians, 45,885 Russians, 1,558 Jews and 648 Belarusians. The demographics differed sharply on either side of the Viļaka ridge, which bisects the district – the eastern civil parishes had small ethnic Latvian minorities: 17% in Kacēnu \"pagasts\", 5% in Linavas \"pagasts\", 32% in Purvmalas \"pagasts\", 5% in Augšpils \"pagasts\", and 4% in Gauru \"pagasts\". The civil parishes immediately to the west had strong Latvian majorities, ranging from 71% in Šķilbēnu \"pagasts\" to 91% in Viļakas \"pagasts\". The town of Abrene itself, which developed around the Pytalovo railroad station, had 1,242 inhabitants, 484 of them ethnic Latvians.\n\nThe inhabitants held Latvian citizenship regardless of ethnicity. Parliamentary Latvia pursued a liberal policy of multiculturalism, guaranteeing education in minority languages from 1919. Modern schools providing bilingual instruction in Latvian, Russian, Belarusian, Yiddish and Latgalian were constructed (by 1936 there were 162 primary schools and 3 secondary schools in the district). The Latvianization policies of the authoritarian president Kārlis Ulmanis resulted in curtailing multiculturalism after 1934. Many minority schools were closed. The Abrene district as a whole differed from most of Latvia by religion, too – it was 48% Orthodox, 38% Catholic, and 12% Lutheran.\n\nWith the Soviet occupation in 1940, the German invasion in 1941, the Holocaust, the return of Soviet forces in 1944, and the illegal mobilization of Latvian citizens by both occupying powers, severe demographic changes took place. The transfer of the eastern part of the district to the RSFSR was decided by a decree from the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, based on a request by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Latvian SSR, in violation of even Soviet law (the 1936 constitution then in force required that changes in internal borders be confirmed by the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, not the Presidium). Though the official documents transfer 1075.31 square kilometers, 1293.6 square kilometers were actually transferred.\n\nThe transfer was not formally finalized until 1946. The territory was subjected to forcible collectivization, accompanied by rampant robbery and destruction, including the demolition of farmsteads and mass mortality among livestock. Kulaks, nationalists, and \"bandits\" (often those accused of being Forest Brothers) were deported with their families (2728 persons in early 1949 and 1563 persons in May 1950), primarily to Krasnoyarsk. Officials from Russia proper replaced local administrators even at the village level, and even some who had fought for the Soviets were mistreated. In these circumstances, large numbers of people left for the Latvian SSR. Today there are substantial communities of former residents and their descendants in Balvi and Rīga. The former civil parishes joined to Russia are almost totally delatvianized.\n\nThe Latvian constitution stipulates that the borders of the Republic are set by international treaties, and the government considers the 1920 Treaty of Rīga to be still in force. The May 4th, 1990 declaration of independence (reinstating the 1920 constitution subject to a transitional period) by the Supreme Soviet of the Latvian SSR affirmed that the restored Republic of Latvia would base its relations with the Russian Federation on the treaty principle. In January 1991, the Russian Federation (while still in the USSR) and Latvia signed a document regulating their bilateral relations. The Latvian delegation attempted to include a reference to the 1920 treaty but the Russian delegation objected. In essence, Russia views Latvia as a newly-independent country and consistently refuses to acknowledge that Latvia was occupied and illegally incorporated into the USSR, while Latvia insists upon the legal continuity of Latvian state occupied in 1940. Key players in post-war politics in the West never recognised or at least questioned the legality of the incorporation of Latvia into the USSR, but there is pressure on both countries to resolve the issue. This can be seen on the example of their attitude towards events from the beginning of the 20th century in Latvia. Thus, the European Community, for example, did not use the term \"recognition\" but referred to \"the \"restoration\" of sovereignty and independence\" when restoring diplomatic relations in 1991; the USA to \"the culmination of the USA’s 52 year refusal to accept the forcible incorporation of the independent Baltic States by the USSR\". (See, for example, Roland Rich's paper for the Symposium on Recent Developments in State Recognition.). Pressure on the RF includes the need for Russia to have a border agreement in order to pursue a less draconian visa policy from the EU.\n\nThe Latvian Foreign Ministry has reiterated \"that Latvia has no territorial claims to the Russian Federation\", however, and though there is some opposition (particularly among right wing parties) to formally ceding the Abrene region, surveys show that most Latvians don't believe that the transferred territory will ever again be administered by Latvia. Many in Latvia – especially the former residents of the areas now in Russia – are interested in seeking compensation from the Russian Federation, though. Currently, the Republic of Latvia compensates those who lost property. The former residents also complain of the difficulty of visiting their family graves, asking that the Latvian and Russian governments facilitate border procedures. Despite Latvia's assurances that it makes no territorial claims, Russian president Vladimir Putin claimed that Latvian wishes to get control of the area and that such claims are against the spirit of Europe. On April 29, 2005, Latvia announced that it would sign an interpretative declaration in conjunction with the proposed border agreement with Russia, noting that the border agreement would in no way affect \"the legal rights of the Latvian state and its citizens\" under the 1920 treaty. As a consequence, Russia scrapped the border agreement, as it saw this as attempt to prolong debate on Abrene.\n\nIn January 2007, the Latvian Parliament agreed to sign the treaty, making no open references to the 1920 treaty. By the end of 2007, the border treaty was ratified by both parties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1228415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1228415", "title": "Akwesasne", "text": "Akwesasne\n\nThe Mohawk Nation at Akwesasne () (alternate spelling Ahkwesáhsne) is a Mohawk Nation (\"Kanien'kehá:ka\") territory that straddles the intersection of international (United States and Canada) borders and provincial (Ontario and Quebec) boundaries on both banks of the St. Lawrence River. Most of the land and population are in what is otherwise the present-day United States. Although divided by an international border, the residents consider themselves to be one community. They maintain separate police forces due to jurisdictional issues and national laws.\n\nThe community was founded in the mid-18th century by Mohawk families from Kahnawake (also known as Caughnawaga), a Catholic Mohawk village that developed south of Montreal along the St. Lawrence River. Today Akwesasne has a total of 12,000 residents, with the largest population and land area of any \"Kanien'kehá:ka\" community. From its development in the mid-eighteenth century, Akwesasne was considered one of the Seven Nations of Canada. It is one of several \"Kanien'kehá:ka\" (Mohawk), meaning \"people of the flint\" in Mohawk, territories within present-day Canada; others are Kahnawake, Wahta, Tyendinaga, Kanesatake, and the Six Nations of the Grand River First Nation (which includes several subdivisions of Mohawk, the other five nations of the Iroquois League, and some other Native American tribes), founded after the American Revolutionary War.\n\nWith settlement of the border between Canada and the United States in the early 19th century, a larger portion of the territory was defined as being within the United States. The portion in New York state is known as the federally recognized St. Regis Mohawk Reservation. The portion in Ontario is referred to as Akwesasne Reserve No. 59, and the portion in Quebec as Akwesasne Reserve.\n\nThe name \"Akwesasne\" in Mohawk means \"Land Where the Partridge Drums\", referring to the rich wildlife in the area.\n\nAkwesasne territory incorporates part of the St. Lawrence River, the mouths of the Raquette and St. Regis rivers, and a number of islands in these three rivers. The eastern border of the southern portion is formed by the St. Regis River. The territory is divided between north/south by the Canada–United States border. The northern portion is further divided by the Canadian provincial boundary between Ontario to the west and Quebec to the east.\n\nThe Three Nations Crossing connects Kawehno:ke (Cornwall Island, Ontario) to the City of Cornwall in the north and Rooseveltown, New York in the south.\n\nBecause of the St. Lawrence River to the north and New York State, USA to the south, the Quebec portion of the Akwesasne reserve is an exclave claimed by Canada. To travel by land from Tsi:Snaine (Snye or Chenail, Quebec) or Kana:takon (Saint Regis, Quebec) to elsewhere in Canada, one must drive through New York State. In Canada, the territory within Ontario is called the Akwesasne 59 Indian Reserve, and the territory within Quebec is called the Akwesasne Indian Reserve.\n\nIn the U.S. state of New York, the territory of \"Akwesasne\" coincides with what is called the federally recognized St. Regis Mohawk Reservation. This portion of Akwesasne is bisected by New York State Route 37. This major state highway in the North Country of New York, extends for 127.40 miles (205.03 km) on an east-west axis.\n\nBeginning about 1000 AD, nomadic indigenous people around the Great Lakes began adopting the cultivation of maize. By the 14th century, Iroquoian-speaking peoples, later called the St. Lawrence Iroquoians, had created fortified villages along the fertile valley of what is now called the St. Lawrence River. Among their villages were \"Stadacona\" and \"Hochelaga\", visited in 1535-1536 by French explorer Jacques Cartier. While they shared certain culture with other Iroquoian groups, they were a distinctly separate people and spoke a branch of Iroquoian called Laurentian. But by the time Samuel de Champlain explored the same area 75 years later in the early 1600s, the villages had disappeared.\n\nHistorians theorize that the stronger Mohawk from the South waged war against the St. Lawrence Iroquoians to get control of the fur trade and hunting along the river valley. By 1600, the Mohawk used the valley for hunting grounds and as a path for war parties.\n\nIn the early 17th century, some Christian Iroquois (primarily Mohawk, but also some Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga and Seneca) migrated from present-day New York to Kahnawake (formerly known as Caughnawaga, after their village along the Mohawk River), a Catholic mission village established by French Jesuits south of Montreal. Kahnawake is a \"Kanien'kehá:ka\" (Mohawk) word meaning \"at the rapids\". Here, additional First Nations joined the community, converting to Roman Catholicism; the Mohawk dominated in number. During the colonial years, this community participated in the fur trade. Some men regularly traveled to Albany, New York for better prices from the English and Dutch than the French were willing to give.\n\nIn addition, warriors and families became involved in raiding and the traffic in captives during Queen Anne's War in the early 1700s between France and England. French and First Nations allies, including the Abenaki, would bring captives back to Kahnawake from New England settlements, often to be ransomed. Younger English children and women were sometimes adopted by Mohawk families and assimilated into the tribe.\n\nDue to exhaustion of land at Kahnawake and problems with traders' rum at the village, in the mid-1750s about 30 families migrated upriver about 20 leagues to set up a new community. Among the leaders were brothers and chiefs John and Zachariah Tarbell. Father Pierre-Robert-Jean-Baptiste Billiard accompanied the migrants as their priest. French officials supported the move, paying for a sawmill at the new mission. With tensions rising prior to the Seven Years' War (also known in North America as the French and Indian War), the French wanted to keep the Mohawk as allies, and away from English influence.\n\nThe Tarbell brothers were born to English colonists in Groton, Massachusetts. They had been taken captive as children in 1707 along with their older sister Sarah, then 14, during Queen Anne's War. John and Zachariah were 12 and 8, respectively. The three children were taken by the French and Abenaki raiders some 300 miles to Montreal. They all became Catholic and were renamed. Sarah/Marguerite was redeemed by a French couple and entered the Congregation of Notre Dame, a teaching order founded in Montreal by French women in 1653. Adopted by Mohawk families in Kahnawake, the two boys became thoroughly assimilated: learning the language and ways, and being given Mohawk names. They later each married daughters of chiefs and reared their children as Mohawk. They each became chiefs, and some of their sons also became chiefs. They were examples of the multi-cultural community of the Mohawk, who absorbed numerous captives into their tribe.\n\nStarting in 1755, French-Canadian Jesuit priests founded the St. Regis Mission at Akwesasne. The Tarbell brothers were listed among the founding chiefs, representing numerous clans as of 1759, in papers of Loran Kanonsase Pyke, the patriarch of Akwesasne's Pyke family.\n\nThe Jesuits first built a log and bark church at the mission, then a more formal log church. In 1795 the Mohawk completed construction of a stone church, which still stands. Named after the French priest St. Jean-François Regis, the mission was the source of the French name of the adjacent Saint Regis River, an island in the St. Lawrence River, and the nearby village. The church was long a landmark to ships on the river approaching the rapids. In New York, the name was later adopted to apply to the Saint Regis Mohawk Reservation. The villagers have since renamed their community \"Kana:takon\" (\"the village\", in Mohawk).\n\nAfter victory in the Seven Years' War, the British took over Canada and New France east of the Mississippi River. They allowed the \"Kanien'kehá:ka\" to continue to have Catholic priests at their mission. The Jesuits helped preserve Mohawk culture, translating the Bible and liturgy into Mohawk. They observed Mohawk customs, for instance, refusing to marry individuals who belonged to the same clan. Through the 18th and 19th centuries, they maintained parish registers that recorded the Mohawk names of individuals for life events, even when the people had taken European names as well.\n\nAt the time of the American Revolutionary War, the Mohawk, Onondaga, Seneca and Cayuga were allied with the British against the rebel American colonists. Forced to cede most of their remaining lands in New York to the new government after the colonists' victory, many of the Iroquois people migrated to Canada, where many settled at the Six Nations of the Grand River First Nation. Some Mohawk joined the growing community at Akwesasne. Under the Jay Treaty, the Iroquois retained rights to cross the newly established borders between Canada and the United States in order to maintain their trade and tribal ties. In 1806, Catholic Cayuga, Oneida and Onondaga from Ogdensburg, New York joined the St. Regis band.\n\nThe Battle of the Cedars () was a series of military confrontations, early in the American Revolutionary War, which involved limited combat. The actions took place between May 19 and 27, 1776, at and around Les Cèdres, Quebec (located 28 miles/45 km west of Montreal), in the later stages of the American colonial invasion of Quebec that began in September 1775. No casualties occurred.\nClaude de Lorimier, a British Indian agent from Montreal, traveled west to \"Oswegatchie\" (Ogdensburg, New York), where there was a fort garrisoned by a company of the 8th Regiment of Foot under the command of British Captain George Forster. De Lorimier proposed recruiting some Indians to launch an attack on Montreal, then held by the American Continental Army, from the west. When Forster agreed, Lorimier went to Akwesasne, where he recruited 100 warriors for battle. The British-allied forces took some American prisoners during the encounters, but these were later freed.\n\nKana:takon School, originally called the Saint Regis Village School, was run by the Catholic Sisters of Saint Anne until the 1970s. Today, the mission is still active and includes a rectory, the large stone church dating to 1795, and a cemetery. Parish records show that the Jesuits respected Mohawk traditions, recording their Mohawk names through the 18th and 19th centuries, even after they had also taken European names.\n\nThe Roman Catholic parish at Akwesasne falls under three dioceses because of international borders and provincial boundaries: the Diocese of Alexandria-Cornwall and the Diocese of Valleyfield in Canada, and the Diocese of Ogdensburg in New York.\n\nFollowing passage of the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934, the United States federal government encouraged the tribe to adopt a constitution and elected government. The Mohawk chose to retain their traditional system of chiefs.\n\nIn the 1940s Ernest Benedict founded Akwesasne's first newspaper, \"Kawehras!\" (\"It Thunders!\"). Benedict covered the resistance of many Mohawk to the system of elections imposed by the federal government on the \"American\" side of Akwesasne; it insisted on representative elections. On May 24, 1948, a vote was held in which \"The Six Nations Chiefs,\" based on historic clans and hereditary office; received 83 votes, as opposed to \"The Elected Chiefs\", who received 1; and \"The Seven Nations Chiefs,\" who did not receive any votes. The elected chiefs resigned from office, but the federal government continued to require the tribe to hold elections.\n\nBoth the federal government and New York State encouraged the tribe to adopt representative elected government, but they resisted. They were put on the congressional list for termination in the 1950s, as part of a policy assuming that assimilation was best for Native Americans, but Congress did not approve the termination of the St. Regis Reservation.\n\nIn 1969 Benedict founded the North American Indian Travelling College (now known as the Native North American Travelling College), which serves as a cultural centre, publishing house, and resource for classes and lectures at Akwesasne and beyond. It operates an art gallery and theatre at Akwesasne.\n\nIn the late 1960s, a period of heightened Native American activism, Benedict also started \"Akwesasne Notes,\" which was highly influential and became the largest native newspaper in the world. Among its noted features were a series of posters included as centrefolds. A supporter gave the newspaper Edward Curtis photographs, which editors combined with quotes from Native American authors for the popular poster series.\n\nIn 1987, the Akwesasne Task Force on the Environment was founded in response to environmental concerns, including PCB contamination from industries located along the St. Lawrence River.\n\nIn the 1990s, the people of Akwesasne raised money in a variety of ways to fund a renovation of their St. Regis Church. They wrote a history of the church and its priests.\n\nThe three main areas:\n\nOthers:\n\nTo the southeast Akwesasne borders the towns of Fort Covington, New York and Bombay, New York. Sections of the southeastern portion of Akwesasne are considered by the Town of Bombay to be within the town's jurisdiction but the tribe disputes this. To the west is the Town of Massena, New York. Many islands in the St. Lawrence River are part of Akwesasne. Generally the \"Akwesasro:non\" are majority English-speaking in daily use.\n\nAkwesasne is governed by three bodies: the Mohawk Nation Council of Chiefs (traditional government), the elected Mohawk Council of Akwesasne in the North, and Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe in the South. The latter are the two recognized by the governments of Canada and the United States, as well as by lower-level jurisdictions.\n\nThe Mohawk Nation Council of Chiefs (MNCC, colloquially \"the Longhouse\") is the traditional governing and religious body of the Mohawk (Kahniakehaka) people. The MNCC operates as a member nation of the Iroquois Confederacy or \"Haudenosaunee\".\n\nThe Mohawk Council of Akwesasne (MCA) is a government whose representatives are elected within the northern districts of the territory claimed by Canada. The MCA was developed from the Indian Bands system introduced by the Indian Act of Canada and the Act's historical and legal predecessors. They are known to Canada as \"Mohawks of Akwesasne Bands 59 and 15\".\n\nThe MCA operates as a non-partisan, representative democracy, divided into three geographic and administrative districts. The districts are Kana:takon (Saint Regis, Quebec), Kawehno:ke (Cornwall Island, Ontario) and Tsi:Snaihne (Snye, Quebec). The several islands of the St. Lawrence River within the jurisdiction of the Mohawk Council of Akwesasne are generally counted as being a part of the nearest mainland.\n\nGeneral elections are held tri-annually, with 12 representatives (Chiefs) chosen from the districts and one Grand Chief. Each district elects four Chiefs, and all districts vote to elect a Grand Chief; making a council of 12 plus 1. A by-election may also be held if one or more of the seats become vacant.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe St. Regis Mohawk Tribe (SRMT) is a government elected by residents of the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation, a southern district of the territory within the border of the United States. The SRMT operates as a Constitutional republic. The Tribal Council is composed of three Chiefs, three Sub-Chiefs, and a Tribal Clerk. Elections are held each year on the first Saturday of June to choose one Chief and one Sub-Chief for a three-year term. The Tribal Clerk is chosen every third year.\n\n\nIn 1960 First Nations people were enfranchised in Canada. In 1985 Status Indians who voted in a Canadian election were allowed to retain their status. Previously they would have become non-Status, as per the Indian Act. It is uncertain how many Akwesasronon participate in Canadian elections.\n\nAkwesasne is currently represented in Canada's Parliament by:\n\nIn 1924 Native Americans were enfranchised in the United States if they had not been previously; by that time, two-thirds were already citizens. During the era of Indian Removal of the 1830s, Native Americans who chose to stay in historic territories became state and federal citizens; those who moved with their tribes to Indian Territory were not considered citizens. As Native American lands were purchased during the nineteenth century and Native land claims were extinguished, more were classified as US citizens as they moved to reservations.\n\nAkwesasne is represented in the United States Senate by:\n\nAkwesasne is represented in the United States House of Representatives by:\n\nAkwesasne is represented in the New York State Assembly by:\n\nAkwesasne is represented in the New York Senate by:\n\nIn 2016 an independent indigenous legal system and court was introduced to deal with non-criminal offenses within Akwesasne.\n\nThe 32 new laws cover civil matters handled by an indigenous legal team director of public prosecution, public prosecutor and two justices.\n\nThe system does not use jail terms but uses restorative justice to bring resolution between the accused and plaintiff.\n\nThe members of the legal team are not required to have a law degree but are required to complete training and are approved by a review commission.\n\nAkwesasne has five elementary schools on the territory. Three schools are under the direction of the Ahkwesasne Mohawk Board of Education:\n\nOne school is under the direction of the Salmon River Central School District of New York:\n\nOne school is run independently:\n\nGenerally, Akwesasnro:non travel off the reservation for secondary education.\n\nPost-secondary education is offered on the reservation through Iohahiio Adult Education and State University of New York (SUNY) extension programs with the SRMT.\n\n97.3 CKON-FM is the community radio station. It first went on air on September 29, 1984. CKON is owned and operated by the Akwesasne Communication Society, a community-based non-profit group. It has a country music format, and also has adult contemporary music during evenings, a free format on Fridays, and oldies on Sundays.\n\nCKON also broadcasts coverage of home and away games of the Cornwall Colts and Akwesasne Wolves hockey teams and of the Akwesasne Lightning lacrosse team.\n\n\n\nIn the winter of 1969, Cornwall City Police were confronted by a demonstration by Akwesasro:non at the North Channel Bridge of what is now called the Three Nations Crossing. By blocking traffic on the bridge, Akwesasro:non sought to call attention to their grievance that they were prohibited by Canadian authorities from duty-free passage of personal purchases across the border, a right they claimed was established by the 1795 Jay Treaty. Future Grand Chief Mike Kanentakeron Mitchell, then a part of the National Film Board of Canada's pioneering \"Indian Film Crew\" unit, directed an NFB documentary about the protest, entitled \"You Are on Indian Land\".\n\nThe NYC Ya Basta Collective was a group of anti-globalization activists, based primarily in New York City, active from roughly October 2000 through October 2001.\n\nInitiated in October 2000 by L. Fantoni and Casper on the heels of the anti-International Monetary Fund/World Bank protests in Prague, a collective soon formed and developed its own variation of the \"Tute Bianche\" tactic of the padded bloc. The collective organized several actions and events highlighting the inadequacy of borders, in support of immigrant rights and against racism and racialist hate groups.\n\nIn April 2001, this collective, along with the Direct Action Network, was active in organizing a US / Canada border crossing over the Three Nations Crossing. This event preceded demonstrations surrounding the 3rd Summit of the Americas, a summit held in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. An estimated 500 anti-globalists, along with a few Akwesasro:non, challenged the legitimacy of the US/Canada border. Although the Collective peacefully crossed into Cornwall, Ontario, Canada, they never made it to Quebec City. Most of the activists who participated in the action at the border and attempted to enter Canadian territory were turned away by Canada Border Service agents and prevented from attending the protests in Quebec City.\n\nOn 1 June 2009, Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) border services officers at the Cornwall Port of Entry walked off the job in response to encampments of Akwesasro:non across the road from the customs facility. The latter were protesting Canada's arming of CBSA border services officers. The encampment, styled as a \"unity rally\", was branded as a campaign to bring awareness to complaints of alleged human rights abuses committed against Akwesasro:non by the CBSA border services officers.\n\nThe protest continued for several days but reached its peak at midnight of 1 June, when the new policy of arming border services officers with Beretta Px4 Storm sidearms went into effect. The border services officers left at the end of their shift. A new shift did not arrive, leaving the port of entry vacant.\n\nCornwall City Police blockaded the north terminus of the Three Nations Bridge to deny travelers entry into Canada. At the request of Canada, the New York State Police likewise blocked access from the United States onto the bridge. Akwesasne was cut off from its major access point into Canada and from free travel within the territory until a temporary border post was erected on July 13, 2009.\n\nPolice, border patrol, state troopers, RCMP, and various government agents blocked the road leading to the homes on Cornwall Island, Ontario, from May 2009 until July 2009. Each time any Mohawk attempted to leave their homes or return to their homes in Akwesasne, they were interrogated by government agents. Some Mohawk moved out of their homes because of the stress of this situation. Other residents were ordered to pay costs of $1000 each time CBSA agents chose to impound their vehicles, sometimes more than once per day when residents needed to use their vehicles for several trips. Some residents traveled instead by boat to seek medical attention, or purchase water, and groceries.\n\nThe area has been the scene of several disputes on the rights of the residents to cross the border unimpeded. These issues have been a concern for Canadian authorities, as the area is alleged to be a large-scale, cigarette-smuggling route from the U.S. There have been arrests and seizure of goods in the past. There are also concerns about smuggling of drugs, liquor, and migrants.\n\nIn addition, residents of Akwesasne have been divided over governance and which political factions they support. Political rivalries were expressed as one group brought gambling onto the reserve, bringing huge returns to casino owners. In 1989 unidentified suspects threw firebombs at a chartered bus. In a separate incident, someone used a shotgun to fire at a bus in the customs area.\n\nThe political feuds have led to violence: two Mohawk men were killed at Akwesasne in 1990, and thousands of residents left their homes in that period because of attacks on houses and vehicles, and general unrest. The Warrior Society, a self-appointed security force, used assault rifles and bats to break up anti-gambling roadblocks at the reservation entrances. They threatened to shoot any outside law enforcement officials if they entered the reservation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2549795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2549795", "title": "Bioswale", "text": "Bioswale\n\nBioswales are landscape elements designed to concentrate or remove debris and pollution out of surface runoff water. They consist of a swaled drainage course with gently sloped sides (less than 6%) and filled with vegetation, compost and/or riprap. The water's flow path, along with the wide and shallow ditch, is designed to maximize the time water spends in the swale, which aids the collection and removal of pollutants, silt and debris. Bioswales are also beneficial in groundwater recharge and are great stormwater mitigation tools. Depending upon the topography of the land, a bioswale may have a meandering or almost straight channel alignment. A bioswale's make-up can be influenced by many different variables that include: climate, rainfall patterns, size of the site, budget, and available vegetation that can be planted. \n\nIt is important to maintain bioswales to ensure best possible efficiency and effectiveness in removal of pollutants in the stormwater runoff. Planning for these things is an important step, which can include the introduction of filters or large rocks to prevent clogging. Annual maintenance through soil testing, visual inspection, and mechanical testing are also crucial to the health of a bioswale. \n\nA common application is around parking lots, where substantial automotive pollution is settled on the paving and then flushed by the first instance of rain, known as the first flush. The bioswales, or other type of biofilter, can be created around the edges of parking lots to capture and treat the stormwater runoff before releasing it to the watershed or storm sewer.\n\nBioswales work to remove pollutants through vegetation and the soil. As the storm water runoff flows through the bioswale, the pollutants are captured and settled by the leaves and stems of the plants. The pollutants then enter the soil where they decompose or can be broken down by bacteria in healthy soil.\n\nThere are several classes of water pollutants that may be collected or arrested with bioswales. These fall into the categories of silt, inorganic contaminants, organic chemicals and pathogens.\n\nBioswales can be implemented in areas that require stormwater management to regulate the runoff velocity and decontaminate the runoff. Bioswales are created to handle the first flush of pollutants during the event of rain, therefore, locations that have high areas of impervious surface such as roads, parking lots, or rooftops can benefit from additions of bioswales. They can also be integrated into road medians, curb cutouts, sidewalks, or any public space.\n\nBioswales are useful low-impact development work to decrease the velocity of stormwater runoff while removing pollutants from the discharge. They are extremely beneficial in protecting surface water and local waterways from excessive pollution from stormwater runoff. The longer the runoff stays within the bioswale, the better the pollutant removal outcome. It is also beneficial in removing standing ponds that could potentially attract mosquitos. Bioswales can also be designed to be aesthetically pleasing and attract animals and create habitats. Bioswales can also be beneficial for groundwater recharge.\n\nImproper maintenance can lead to high restoration costs to address inefficient bioswales. An accumulation of large sediments, trash, and improper growth of vegetation can all affect the quality and performance of bioswales. It is beneficial at the planning stages to set apart easements to allow for easier maintenance of biowales, whether it be adequate space to locate machinery or safety to those working. Different types of filters can be used to catch sediments. Grass filter strips or rock inlets can be used to filter sediments and particulates; however, without proper maintenance, runoff could flow away from the bioswales due to blockage. Structural inlets have become more common due to the ease of maintenance, use, and its effectiveness. Avoiding the use of floating mulch and selecting the best fit low-maintenance plants ensure better efficiency in the bioswales. Depending on a community's needs for a bioswale, a four step assessment program can be developed. Visual inspection, capacity testing, synthetic runoff, and monitoring are the four steps that can be used to evaluate performance and maintenance of bioswales.\n\nRoutine inspection is required to ensure that the performance and aesthetics of bioswales are not compromised. Time and frequency of inspections vary based on different local governments, but should occur at least once a year. Various aspects of inspection can take place, either visually or mechanically. Visual observation of the vegetation, water, and inlets are all crucial to ensure performance. Some organizations utilize checklists to streamline the visual inspection process.\n\nThere are different methods to determine if a bioswale needs maintenance. Bioswales are benchmarked to meet a specific level of infiltration to determine if maintenance is required. A staff gauge is used to measure the infiltration rate. Soil chemistry testing is also required to determine if the soil has a certain off-level of any pollutant. Phosphorus and high levels of salinity in the soil are two common pollutants that should be attended to. Analysis of inflow and outflow pollutant concentration is also another way to determine the performance level of bioswales.\n\nMaintenance can span to three different levels of care. Aesthetic maintenance is required to remove weeds that affect the performance of the other plants and the bioswale itself, clean and remove trash, and maintaining the looks of the vegetation. Partial restoration is needed when the inlet is blocked by sediments or when vegetation needs to be replaced. Full restoration is required when the bioswales no longer filter pollutants adequately and overall performance is severely lacking.\n\nBioswales experience short, potentially intense, periods of rain, flooding and pollutant loading followed by dry seasons. It is important to take into account how the vegetation selected for the bioswales will grow and understanding what types of plants are considered the best fit. \n\nThere are four types of bioswales that can be constructed based on the needs of the location.\nBioswales require a certain soil composition that does not contain more than 5% clay. The soil itself before implementation should not be contaminated. Bioswales should be constructed with a longitudinal slope to allow sediments to settle. Maximum slope of bioswales is 3:1. A minimum clearance is required to ensure that other infrastructure would not be damaged. The overfill drain should be located at least 6 inches above the ground plain to allow for maximum concentration time of stormwater runoff in the bioswales. Rocks can also be used to slow down the runoff velocity. The use of filters is important to prevent inlets from becoming blocked by sediments or trash.\n\nTwo early examples of scientifically designed bioswales for large scale applications are found in the western US. In 1996 for Willamette River Park in Portland, Oregon a total of 2330 lineal feet of bioswale was designed and installed to capture and prevent pollutant runoff from entering the Willamette River. Intermittent check dams were installed to further abet silt capture, which reduced by 50% suspended solids entering the river system.\n\nA second example of a large scale designed bioswale is at the Carneros Business Park, Sonoma County, California. Starting in 1997 the project design team worked with the California Department of Fish and Game and County of Sonoma to produce a detailed design to channel surface runoff at the perimeter of a large parking area. Surface runoff consists of building roof runoff, parking lot runoff and overland flow from properties to the north of the project site. A total of two lineal miles of bioswale was designed into the project. The purpose of the bioswale was to minimize runoff contaminants from entering Sonoma Creek. The bioswale channel is grass-lined, and nearly linear in form. Downslope gradient is approximately 4% and cross-slope gradient is approximately 6%.\n\nA relatively recent project established was the Seattle, Washington Street Edge Alternatives project, completed in 2001. Rather than using traditional piping, SEA's goal was to create a natural landscape that represented what the area was like before development. The street was 11% more pervious than a standard street and was characterized with evergreen trees and bioswales. The bioswales were planted on graded slopes with wetland and upland plants. Other landscaping also focused on native and salmon-friendly plants. SEA provided a strong benefit for stormwater runoff mitigation that helped continue to protect Seattle's creek ecology. The project street also created a more inviting and aesthetically pleasing site as opposed to hard landscaping.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42653757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42653757", "title": "Caleta Zorra", "text": "Caleta Zorra\n\nCaleta Zorra, meaning 'Bay of foxes' in Spanish, is an enclosed, half-moon shaped inlet on the Pacific coast of Chiloé Island in Los Lagos region, southern Chile. Lies north of Punta Pabellion, it is located among Punta Zorra and Punta Barranco. The nearest residential area is the township of Puerto Carmen.\n\nAreas surrounding the cove is rich in natural environments.\nWhales such as Blue Whales and Fin Whale swim just off the bay.\nPossibly, coast-loving whales such as Humpback Whales or Southern Right Whales occasionally take rests in the sheltered bay.\n\n"}
{"id": "18508684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18508684", "title": "Countries of the United Kingdom", "text": "Countries of the United Kingdom\n\nThe United Kingdom (UK) comprises four countries: England, Scotland and Wales (which collectively make up Great Britain) and Northern Ireland (which is variously described as a country, province or region).\n\nWithin the United Kingdom, a unitary sovereign state, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales have gained a degree of autonomy through the process of devolution. The UK Parliament and British Government deal with all \"reserved matters\" for Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales, but not in general matters that have been devolved to the Northern Ireland Assembly, Scottish Parliament and National Assembly for Wales. Additionally, devolution in Northern Ireland is conditional on co-operation between the Northern Ireland Executive and the Government of Ireland (see North/South Ministerial Council) and the British Government consults with the Government of Ireland to reach agreement on some non-devolved matters for Northern Ireland (see British–Irish Intergovernmental Conference). England, comprising the majority of the population and area of the United Kingdom, remains fully the responsibility of the UK Parliament centralised in London.\n\nEngland, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales are not themselves listed in the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) list of countries. However the ISO list of the subdivisions of the UK, compiled by British Standards and the UK's Office for National Statistics, uses \"country\" to describe England, Scotland and Wales. Northern Ireland, in contrast, is described as a \"province\" in the same lists. Each has separate national governing bodies for sports and compete separately in many international sporting competitions, including the Commonwealth Games. Northern Ireland also forms joint All-Island sporting bodies with the Republic of Ireland for most sports, including rugby union.\n\nThe Channel Islands and the Isle of Man are dependencies of the Crown and are not part of the UK. Similarly, the British overseas territories, remnants of the British Empire, are not part of the UK.\n\nHistorically, from 1801, following the Acts of Union, until 1921 the whole island of Ireland was a country within the UK. Ireland was split into two separate jurisdictions in 1921: Southern Ireland and Northern Ireland. Southern Ireland left the United Kingdom under the Irish Free State Constitution Act 1922.\n\n \n\nVarious terms have been used to describe England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.\n\n\nThe Interpretation Act 1978 provides statutory definitions of the terms \"England\", \"Wales\" and the \"United Kingdom\", but neither that Act nor any other current statute defines \"Scotland\" or \"Northern Ireland\". Use of the first three terms in other legislation is interpreted following the definitions in the 1978 Act. The definitions in the 1978 Act are listed below:\n\n\nIn the Scotland Act 1998 there is no delineation of Scotland, with the definition in section 126 simply providing that Scotland includes \"so much of the internal waters and territorial sea of the United Kingdom as are adjacent to Scotland\". \n\nThe Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011 refers to England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland as \"parts\" of the United Kingdom in the following clause: \"Each constituency shall be wholly in one of the four parts of the United Kingdom (England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland).\"\n\nThe Royal Fine Art Commission's 1847 report on decorating the Palace of Westminster referred to \"the nationality of the component parts of the United Kingdom\" being represented by their four respective patron saints.\n\n\"Regions\": For purposes of NUTS 1 collection of statistical data in a format that is compatible with similar data that is collected elsewhere in the European Union, the United Kingdom has been divided into twelve regions of approximately equal size. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are regions in their own right while England has been divided into nine regions.\n\nThe official term rest of the UK (RUK or rUK) is used in Scotland, for example in export statistics and in legislating for student funding. This term is also used in the context of potential Scottish independence to mean the UK without Scotland.\n\nThe alternative term \"Home Nations\" is sometimes used in sporting contexts and may include all of the island of Ireland.\n\nAccording to the British Social Attitudes Survey, there are broadly two interpretations of British identity, with ethnic and civic dimensions:\n\nOf the two perspectives of British identity, the civic definition has become the dominant idea and in this capacity, Britishness is sometimes considered an institutional or overarching state identity. This has been used to explain why first-, second- and third-generation immigrants are more likely to describe themselves as British, rather than English, Northern Irish, Scottish or Welsh, because it is an \"institutional, inclusive\" identity, that can be acquired through naturalisation and British nationality law; the vast majority of people in the United Kingdom who are from an ethnic minority feel British. However, this attitude is more common in England than in Scotland or Wales; \"white English people perceived themselves as English first and as British second, and most people from ethnic minority backgrounds perceived themselves as British, but none identified as English, a label they associated exclusively with white people\". Contrariwise, in Scotland and Wales \"there was a much stronger\nidentification with each country than with Britain.\"\n\nStudies and surveys have reported that the majority of the Scots and Welsh see themselves as both Scottish/Welsh and British though with some differences in emphasis. The Commission for Racial Equality found that with respect to notions of nationality in Britain, \"the most basic, objective and uncontroversial conception of the British people is one that includes the English, the Scots and the Welsh\". However, \"English participants tended to think of themselves as indistinguishably English or British, while both Scottish and Welsh participants identified themselves much more readily as Scottish or Welsh than as British\". Some people opted \"to combine both identities\" as \"they felt Scottish or Welsh, but held a British passport and were therefore British\", whereas others saw themselves as exclusively Scottish or exclusively Welsh and \"felt quite divorced from the British, whom they saw as the English\". Commentators have described this latter phenomenon as \"nationalism\", a rejection of British identity because some Scots and Welsh interpret it as \"cultural imperialism imposed\" upon the United Kingdom by \"English ruling elites\", or else a response to a historical misappropriation of equating the word \"English\" with \"British\", which has \"brought about a desire among Scots, Welsh and Irish to learn more about their heritage and distinguish themselves from the broader British identity\". The propensity for nationalistic feeling varies greatly across the UK, and can rise and fall over time.\n\nThe state-funded Northern Ireland Life and Times Survey, part of a joint project between the University of Ulster and Queen's University Belfast, has addressed the issue of identity in since it started polling in 1998. It reported that 37% of people identified as British, whilst 29% identified as Irish and 24% identified as Northern Irish. 3% opted to identify themselves as Ulster, whereas 7% stated 'other'. Of the two main religious groups, 68% of Protestants identified as British as did 6% of Catholics; 60% of Catholics identified as Irish as did 3% of Protestants. 21% of Protestants and 26% of Catholics identified as Northern Irish.\n\nFor Northern Ireland, however, the results of the Life & Times Survey are not the whole story. The poll asks for a single preference, whereas many people easily identify as any combination of British and Irish, or British, Northern Irish and Irish, or Irish and Northern Irish. The 2014 Life & Times Survey addressed this to an extent by choosing two of the options from the identity question: British and Irish. It found that, while 28% of respondents stated they felt \"British \"not\" Irish\" and 26% felt \"Irish \"not\" British\", 39% of respondents felt some combination of both identities. Six percent chose 'other description'.\n\nThe identity question is confounded further by identity with politics and religion, and particularly by a stance on the constitutional status of Northern Ireland. Again in 2014, the Life & Times Survey asked what respondents felt should be the \"long term future for Northern Ireland\". 66% of respondents felt the future should be as a part of the UK, with or without devolved government. 17% felt that Northern Ireland should unify with the Republic of Ireland. 50% of specifically Roman Catholics considered that the long-term future should be as part of the UK, with 32% opting for separation. 87% of respondents identifying as any Protestant denomination opted for remaining part of the UK, with only 4% opting for separation. Of those respondents who declared no religion, 62% opted for remaining part of the UK, with 9% opting for separation.\n\nFollowing devolution and the significant broadening of autonomous governance throughout the UK in the late 1990s, debate has taken place across the United Kingdom on the relative value of full independence, an option that was rejected by the Scottish people in the Scottish independence referendum, 2014.\n\nCornwall is administered as a county of England, but the Cornish people are a recognised national minority, included under the terms of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in 2014.\n\nEach of England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales has separate national governing bodies for sports and competes separately in many international sporting competitions. Each country of the United Kingdom has a national football team, and competes as a separate national team in the various disciplines in the Commonwealth Games. At the Olympic Games, the United Kingdom is represented by the Great Britain and Northern Ireland team, although athletes from Northern Ireland can choose to join the Republic of Ireland's Olympic team. In addition to Northern Ireland having its own national governing bodies for some sports such as Association football and Netball, for others, such as rugby union and cricket, Northern Ireland participates with the Republic of Ireland in a joint All-Ireland team. England and Wales field a joint cricket team.\n\nThe United Kingdom participates in the Eurovision Song Contest as a single entity, though there have been calls for separate and Scottish and Welsh entrants. In 2018, Wales participated alone in the spin-off \"Choir of the Year\", placing second.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13519642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13519642", "title": "Dilkusha, Dhaka", "text": "Dilkusha, Dhaka\n\nDilkusha is the commercial center of Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh. It is a part of the larger Motijheel area in the city. Historically, the Nawabs of Dhaka used to have a garden palace here in the 19th and early 20th century. Dilkusha was the name of that palace.\n"}
{"id": "7745976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7745976", "title": "Don Mitchell (geographer)", "text": "Don Mitchell (geographer)\n\nDon Mitchell (born 1961) is Professor of Cultural Geography at Uppsala University (since 2017) and Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Geography in the Maxwell School, Syracuse University. From an academic household in California, he is a graduate of San Diego State University (1987), Pennsylvania State University (1989) and received his Ph.D. from Rutgers University in 1992, working with Neil Smith. He taught at the University of Colorado, Boulder before joining Syracuse in the late 1990s. \n\nIn 1998, he became a MacArthur Fellow, and in 2008 a Guggenheim Fellow. He was awarded the \"Anders Retzius Medal\" from the Swedish Society for Anthropology and Geography in 2012.\n\nConsidered an influential Marxist and radical scholar, he is best known for his work on cultural theory, showing how landscapes embody strong links to histories of struggle, oppression, and unacknowledged labor involved in their creation and maintenance. He has applied this to the history of immigrant labor in California's agricultural landscapes, public and privatized public spaces like shopping malls, and public parks where homeless people are threatened or evicted People's Geography Project. He works on labor struggles, human rights and justice. \n\nHe is also known for an editing technique, particular useful for book manuscripts or other long (10,000 words or more) texts, as well as for texts having undergone multiple revisions over a long period of time. The writer prints out the piece, rereads and makes edits, then retypes the entire text (except for block quotes, which can be pasted from a previous draft). The technique eliminates the incoherence resulting from cutting and pasting, and it compels the writer to reread, revise, and even eliminate prose that no longer works. Don Mitchelling appears arduous but has the reputation of saving time over the long term.\n\n"}
{"id": "31693493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31693493", "title": "Field Guide to the Birds of Australia (Simpson &amp; Day)", "text": "Field Guide to the Birds of Australia (Simpson &amp; Day)\n\nThe Simpson & Day Field Guide to the Birds of Australia is one of the main national bird field guides used by Australian birders, which over the years has evolved through several revised and updated editions. Total sales exceed 500,000 copies.\n\nThe book was first published in 1984 by Lloyd O’Neil as \"The Birds of Australia\", in hardcover format with a dust jacket, 285 mm high by 215 mm wide and weighing 1.7 kg. It contained illustrations by Nicolas Day of 758 species on 128 colour plates. It was divided into three main sections, a key to bird families, the field information section with the plates opposite the relevant species descriptions and distribution maps, and the “handbook” with more detailed information on avian biology. The endpapers featured life-size profile drawings of the bills of albatrosses and petrels to aid the identification of beach-washed seabirds.\n\nAlthough the dust jacket and title page featured Ken Simpson and Nicolas Day as coauthors, the acknowledgements principally credited Ken Simpson as Editor, Nicolas Day as Illustrator and Peter Trusler as Art Director, with several others credited as writers, contributing illustrators and in other capacities.\n\nSubsequent editions were published by Penguin Australia under the Viking imprint in a smaller size (220 mm high by 160 mm wide and only half the weight), with a flexible, waterproof, plastic cover suitable for use as a field guide, and renamed the \"Field Guide to the Birds of Australia\". Additional developments were a rare bird bulletin section to cover vagrant and newly recorded species and to encourage users to report sightings of rarities, and the inclusion of checklists for Australia’s outlying islands and external territories. From the seventh edition the handbook section was dropped and the rare bird bulletin extended.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45251084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45251084", "title": "Frauenbad Stadthausquai", "text": "Frauenbad Stadthausquai\n\nFrauenbad Stadthausquai is a public bath in Zürich, Switzerland, forming part of the historical \"Seeuferanlage\" promenades that were built between 1881 and 1887. Situated at the Stadthausquai by the Bürkliplatz plaza, the bath was built for, and is still exclusively used by women (\"Frauenbad\" means \"bath for women\").\n\nThe small river bath is situated at Bürkliplatz below the Quaibrücke, just south of the artificial Bauschänzli island, in the Limmat. Road transport on Stadthausquai towards Münsterhof is limited; the next Tram stop is at Bürkliplatz or Münsterbrücke, opposite of the upper Limmatquai towards Bellevueplatz.\n\nZürich' government decided in 1837 to build a public bath for women, so that \"they are no longer forced to bath at night in the fountains\" and to protect them from the eyes of men. The former structure at the Bauschänzli was replaced in 1888 by the nostalgic \"Laubsägeli\" (literally: \"fretsaw\") bath, named due to its oriental curved corner turrets. The interior was covered in the early years with a braided roof as a sun shade. Moored on the river Limmat, the small wooden bath is well arranged and accessible only by women. In the pool is a non-swimming section. Free swimming in the Limmat is prohibited.\n\nThe structure is listed in the Swiss inventory of cultural property of national and regional significance as a \"Class A\" object of national importance.\n\n"}
{"id": "26893570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26893570", "title": "GLOBE", "text": "GLOBE\n\nGLOBE is the Global Legislators Organisation for a Balanced Environment, founded in 1989. \n\nGLOBE's objective is to support political leadership on issues of climate and energy security, land-use change and ecosystems. Internationally, GLOBE is focused on leadership from G20 leaders and the leaders of the emerging economies as well as formal negotiations within the United Nations. \n\nGLOBE shadows the formal G8 negotiations and allows legislators to work together outside the formal international negotiations. Without the burden of formal governmental negotiating positions, legislators have the freedom to push the boundaries of what can be politically achieved. \n\nAt an international level GLOBE consists of senior cross-party members of parliament from the 16 major economies - the G8 countries, European Parliament, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, South Africa and South Korea. Also, GLOBE facilitates regional policy dialogues amongst legislators.\n\nGLOBE believes that legislators have a critical role to play in holding their own governments to account for the commitments that are made during international negotiations.\n\nSince 2005 and following the invitation of the former UK Prime Minister, Tony Blair, GLOBE has brought together one hundred legislators from all major political parties within the parliaments of the G8, European Parliament, Brazil, China, India, Mexico & South Africa. GLOBE has convened this group twice a year in a series of focussed policy dialogues held in the US Senate, German Bundestag (2007), Brazilian Senate, Japanese Diet, Mexican Congress (2008) UK House of Commons, Italian Chamber of Deputies, and most recently in the Danish Parliament, the Folketing (2009). The dialogues have included participation by President [Luis Inacio Lula] of Brazil, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, then Prime Minister Tony Blair of the UK, then Prime Ministers Fukuda, and Abe of Japan and the Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen. In addition, both 2008 U.S. Presidential candidates addressed the GLOBE Forum in Tokyo on 28 June 2008. During COP15 in Copenhagen in December 2009, UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown presented Mexican President Calderon with the GLOBE Award for International Leadership on the Environment.\n\nBetween the two annual meetings smaller groups of legislators have been convened in working groups and most recently in two International Commissions on Climate & Energy Security chaired by US Congressman Ed Markey, and on Land Use Change & Ecosystems chaired by former World Bank Vice President, Mr Ian Johnson.\n\nGLOBE has legislative members in all of the 16 major economies that have national GLOBE chapters. At a regional level, they also have members in all European Member states and within several African and Latin American countries.\n\nGLOBE International supports two International Commissions on Climate and Energy Security; and Land Use Change and Ecosystems.\n\nGLOBE’s International Commission on Climate & Energy Security was launched in the US Congress in Washington DC on 30 March 2009. This Commission comprises senior legislators from each of the major economies. The Commission met for two days under the Chairmanship of US Congressman Ed Markey and Lord Michael Jay of the UK House of Lords. The Commission was launched with the support of the Danish Prime Minister, the UK Prime Minister and the Italian G8 Presidency. The aim of the Commission was to produce a major report to the GLOBE Copenhagen Forum in October 2009, and to present its conclusions to the Danish Prime Minister and the major economies. GLOBE national chapters advanced these recommendations.\n\nThe commission's report was adopted by the GLOBE Copenhagen Legislators Forum and submitted to the UNFCCC and leaders of the major economies ahead of COP15.\n\nGLOBE’s International Commission on Land Use Change and Ecosystems was initially announced in June 2008 by the British Foreign Secretary, Rt. Hon [David Miliband] MP, and the Chief Scientist to the Japanese Cabinet, Dr Kiyoshi Kurokawa, and formally supported by the G8+5 Legislators Forum of one hundred senior legislators. With the support of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), the Commission was launched in November 2008 in the Mexican Congress. The Chairman of the International Commission is Mr Ian Johnson, former Vice President for Sustainable Development at the World Bank, and the political co-chairs are Barry Gardiner MP (UK) and Senator Renato Casagrande (Brazil).\n\nIn 2005, the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA) concluded that human activity is rapidly and extensively degrading ecosystem services in order to meet growing demands for food, fresh water, timber, fibre and fuel. Extensive land use change and ecosystem transformation have contributed considerably to economic development. However, these gains have also created barriers to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and significantly depleted the Earth’s natural capital. The \"International Commission on Land Use Change & Ecosystems\" was established in order to initiate a step change in the way that policy makers value the ecosystems that are being degraded at a rapid rate. \n\nThe \"International Commission on Land Use Change & Ecosystems\" has three main work streams: Forest policy, Marine environment policy and Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Policy.\n\nThe International Commission met twice during 2009 to develop a policy framework to address tropical deforestation, first in July at UNEP Headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya, and then in the sidelines of the G20 meeting in Pittsburgh, USA, in September. The Commission, consisting of 20 legislators from both developed countries and rain forest nations along with a panel of expert economists and scientists, agreed to a set of “Forestry Policy Proposals” that included recommendations on how to reduced emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD) as part of the post-2012 climate change agreement and measures to prevent illegal logging and to address the demand-side drivers of deforestation. These policy proposals were endorsed by the GLOBE Copenhagen Forum in October 2009.\n\nThe International Commission aims to coordinate simultaneous parliamentary debates on the marine environment in the major economies of the world on World Oceans Day, 8 June 2010. Prior to this event, the International Commission, consisting of 20 legislators from the major fishing nations and an expert panel of marine scientists and economists, convened in US Congress in April 2010. At this meeting, the International Commission developed a “Marine Ecosystem Recovery Plan”, outlining the policy framework that is necessary to set the oceans on a path to a sustainable future.\n\nGLOBE’s Programme on Ecosystems Services and Biodiversity aims to mainstream biodiversity and ecosystem services within the world’s parliaments by a creating an international leadership group of parliamentarians from the finance or audit committees of a select group of countries. By developing a common framework for economic and environmental information, GLOBE believes that governments will be able to more accurately gauge the contribution of the environment to the economy and the impact of the economy on the environment.\n\nGLOBE International concludes each Forum with a consensus statement agreed by all the legislators attending, which is submitted to leaders of the major economies. GLOBE also produces a number of policy papers and reports to support its work. The International Commissions on Climate and Energy Security; and Land Use Change and Ecosystems produce a number of reports and background documents to support their work.\n\n\n2009 \n\n2008\n\n2007\n"}
{"id": "27616383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27616383", "title": "GNSS enhancement", "text": "GNSS enhancement\n\nGNSS enhancement refers to techniques used to improve the accuracy of positioning information provided by the Global Positioning System or other global navigation satellite systems in general, a network of satellites used for navigation.\n\nEnhancement methods of improving accuracy rely on external information being integrated into the calculation process. There are many such systems in place and they are generally named or described based on how the GPS sensor receives the information. Some systems transmit additional information about sources of error (such as clock drift, ephemeris, or ionospheric delay), others provide direct measurements of how much the signal was off in the past, while a third group provide additional navigational or vehicle information to be integrated in the calculation process.\n\nExamples of augmentation systems include the Wide Area Augmentation System, Differential GPS, Inertial Navigation Systems and Assisted GPS.\n\nThe Global Positioning System (GPS) is the American satellite-based system for positioning and navigation. Receivers on or near the Earth's surface can determine their locations based on signals received from any four or more of the satellites in the network.\n\nAll GPS satellites broadcast on the same two frequencies, known as L1 (1575.42 MHz) and L2 (1227.60 MHz). The network uses code-division multiple access (CDMA) to allow separate messages from the individual satellites to be distinguished. Two distinct CDMA encodings are used: the coarse/acquisition (C/A) code, which is accessible by the general public, and the precise (P) code, which is encrypted, so that only the U.S. military can access it. The messages sent from each satellite contain information ranging from the satellite health, the satellite's orbital path, the clock state of the satellite, and the configuration of the entire satellite network.\n\nThe accuracy of a calculation can also be improved through precise monitoring and measuring of the existing GPS signals in additional or alternate ways.\n\nAfter \"Selective Availability\" was turned off by the U.S. government, the largest error in GPS was usually the unpredictable delay through the ionosphere. The spacecraft broadcast ionospheric model parameters, but they are necessarily imperfect. This is one reason the GPS spacecraft transmit on at least two frequencies, L1 and L2. Ionospheric delay is a well-defined function of frequency and the total electron content (TEC) along the path, so measuring the arrival-time difference between the frequencies determines TEC and thus the precise ionospheric delay at each frequency.\n\nReceivers with decryption keys can decode the P(Y)-code transmitted on both L1 and L2. However, these keys are reserved for the military and authorized agencies and are not available to the public. Without keys, it is still possible to use a \"codeless\" technique to compare the P(Y) codes on L1 and L2 to gain much of the same error information. However, this technique is slow, so it is currently limited to specialized surveying equipment. In the future, additional civilian codes are expected to be transmitted on the L2 and L5 frequencies (see GPS modernization). Then all users will be able to perform dual-frequency measurements and directly compute ionospheric-delay errors.\n\nA second form of precise monitoring is called \"carrier-phase enhancement\" (CPGPS). The error, which this corrects, arises because the pulse transition of the PRN is not instantaneous, and thus the correlation (satellite–receiver sequence matching) operation is imperfect. The CPGPS approach utilizes the L1 carrier wave, which has a period of\n\nwhich is about one-thousandth of the C/A Gold code bit period of\n\nto act as an additional clock signal and resolve the uncertainty. The phase-difference error in the normal GPS amounts to between 2 and 3 meters (6 to 10 ft) of ambiguity. CPGPS working to within 1% of perfect transition reduces this error to 3 centimeters (1 inch) of ambiguity. By eliminating this source of error, CPGPS coupled with DGPS normally realizes between 20 and 30 centimeters (8 to 12 inches) of absolute accuracy.\n\n\"Real-time kinematic positioning\" (RKP) is another approach for a precise GPS-based positioning system. In this approach, determination of range signal can be resolved to a precision of less than 10 centimeters (4 in). This is done by resolving the number of cycles in which the signal is transmitted and received by the receiver. This can be accomplished by using a combination of differential GPS (DGPS) correction data, transmitting GPS signal phase information and ambiguity resolution techniques via statistical tests, possibly with processing in real-time.\n\nWhile most clocks are synchronized to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), the atomic clocks on the satellites are set to \"GPS time\". The difference is that GPS time is not corrected to match the rotation of the Earth, so it does not contain leap seconds or other corrections which are periodically added to UTC. GPS time was set to match Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) in 1980, but has since diverged. The lack of corrections means that GPS time remains at a constant offset with International Atomic Time (TAI) (TAI - GPS = 19 seconds). Periodic corrections are performed on the on-board clocks to correct relativistic effects and keep them synchronized with ground clocks.\n\nThe GPS navigation message includes the difference between GPS time and UTC, which as of 2016 is 17 seconds due to leap seconds added since 1980. Receivers subtract this offset from GPS time to calculate UTC and specific timezone values. The GPS-UTC offset, a signed eight-bit field, can accommodate up to 128 negative leaps or 127 positive leap seconds. At the current rate of Earth's rotation (with one positive leap second introduced approximately every 18 months), the offset field is sufficient for approximately one more century. However, as the Earth is not only rotating slower than when UTC was adopted in 1972, but also slowing down at a somewhat unpredictable rate, leap seconds will begin to occur more frequently. So, the GPS offset field may overflow within the 21st century.\n\nAs opposed to the year, month, and day format of the Gregorian calendar, the GPS date is expressed as a week number and a seconds-into-week number. The week number is transmitted as a ten-bit field in the C/A and P(Y) navigation messages, and so it becomes zero again every 1,024 weeks (19.6 years). GPS week zero started at 00:00:00 UTC (00:00:19 TAI) on January 6, 1980, and the week number became zero again for the first time at 23:59:47 UTC on August 21, 1999 (00:00:19 TAI on August 22, 1999). To determine the current Gregorian date, a GPS receiver must be provided with the approximate date (to within 3,584 days) to correctly translate the GPS date signal. To address this concern the modernized GPS navigation message uses a 13-bit field, which only repeats every 8,192 weeks (157 years), thus lasting until the year 2137 (157 years after GPS week zero).\n\nUtilizing the navigation message to measure pseudorange has been discussed. Another method that is used in GPS surveying applications is carrier-phase tracking. The period of the carrier frequency times the speed of light gives the wavelength, which is about 0.19 meters for the L1 carrier. With a 1% of wavelength accuracy in detecting the leading edge, this component of pseudorange error might be as low as 2 millimeters. This compares to 3 meters for the C/A code and 0.3 meters for the P code.\n\nHowever, this 2-millimeter accuracy requires measuring the total phase, that is the total number of wavelengths plus the fractional wavelength. This requires specially equipped receivers. This method has many applications in the field of surveying.\n\nWe now describe a method that could potentially be used to estimate the position of receiver 2 given the position of receiver 1 using triple differencing followed by numerical root finding and a mathematical technique called least squares. A detailed discussion of the errors is omitted in order to avoid detracting from the description of the methodology. In this description differences are taken in the order of differencing between satellites, differencing between receivers, and differencing between epochs. This should not be construed to mean that this is the only order that can be used. Indeed, other orders of taking differences are equally valid.\n\nThe satellite carrier total phase can be measured with ambiguity as to the number of cycles. Let formula_3 denote the phase of the carrier of satellite \"j\" measured by receiver \"i\" at time formula_4. This notation has been chosen so as to make it clear what the subscripts \"i\", \"j\", and \"k\" mean. In view of the fact that the receiver, satellite, and time come in alphabetical order as arguments of formula_5 and to strike a balance between readability and conciseness, let formula_6, so as to have a concise abbreviation. Also we define three functions: formula_7, which perform differences between receivers, satellites, and time points respectively. Each of these functions has a linear combination of variables with three subscripts as its argument. These three functions are defined below. If formula_8 is a function of the three integer arguments \"i\", \"j\", and \"k\", then it is a valid argument for the functions formula_9, with the values defined as\n\nAlso if formula_8 and formula_14 are valid arguments for the three functions, and \"a\" and \"b\" are constants, then formula_15 is a valid argument with values defined as\n\nReceiver-clock errors can be approximately eliminated by differencing the phases measured from satellite 1 with that from satellite 2 at the same epoch. This difference is designated as formula_19.\n\nDouble differencing can be performed by taking the differences of the between satellite difference observed by receiver 1 with that observed by receiver 2. The satellite-clock errors will be approximately eliminated by this between receiver differencing. This double difference is\n\nTriple differencing can be performed by taking the difference of double differencing performed at time formula_21 with that performed at time formula_22. This will eliminate the ambiguity associated with the integral number of wavelengths in carrier phase, provided this ambiguity does not change with time. Thus the triple difference result has eliminated all or practically all clock bias errors and the integer ambiguity. Also errors associated with atmospheric delay and satellite ephemeris have been significantly reduced. This triple difference is\n\nTriple difference results can be used to estimate unknown variables. For example, if the position of receiver 1 is known, but the position of receiver 2 unknown, it may be possible to estimate the position of receiver 2 using numerical root finding and least squares. Triple difference results for three independent time pairs quite possibly will be sufficient to solve for the three components of position of receiver 2. This may require the use of a numerical procedure such as one of those found in the chapter on root finding and nonlinear sets of equations in Numerical Recipes. To use such a numerical method, an initial approximation of the position of receiver 2 is required. This initial value could probably be provided by a position approximation based on the navigation message and the intersection of sphere surfaces. Although multidimensional numerical root finding can have problems, this disadvantage may be overcome with this good initial estimate. This procedure using three time pairs and a fairly good initial value followed by iteration will result in one observed triple-difference result for receiver 2 position. Greater accuracy may be obtained by processing triple-difference results for additional sets of three independent time pairs. This will result in an overdetermined system with multiple solutions. To get estimates for an overdetermined system, least squares can be used. The least-squares procedure determines the position of receiver 2 that best fits the observed triple-difference results for receiver 2 positions under the criterion of minimizing the sum of the squares.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57661665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57661665", "title": "Geology of Niger", "text": "Geology of Niger\n\nThe geology of Niger comprises very ancient igneous and metamorphic crystalline basement rocks in the west, more than 2.2 billion years old formed in the late Archean and Proterozoic eons of the Precambrian. The Volta Basin, Air Massif and the Iullemeden Basin began to form in the Neoproterozoic and Paleozoic, along with numerous ring complexes, as the region experienced events such as glaciation and the Pan-African orogeny. Today, Niger has extensive mineral resources due to complex mineralization and laterite weathering including uranium, molybdenum, iron, coal, silver, nickel, cobalt and other resources. \n\nThe oldest rocks in Niger, along the border with Burkina Faso and northern Ghana predate the 2.2 billion year old Proterozoic Birimian rocks common in much of West Africa. The pre-Birimian crystalline basement rocks includes gneiss and migmatite metamorphosed to amphibolite grade in the sequence of metamorphic facies. The Liptako region, in the west has amphibolite, chlorite-schist, meta-andesite, meta-arkose, micaceous quartzites and garnet gneiss which are younger. These rocks formed after a granite-gneiss complex in the area, but before the mudstones, tuff, quartzite, conglomerate and greywacke of the Amarasinde and Bellekoire beds. These Upper Birimian Supergroup rocks are intruded by younger granites. \n\nThe Air Massif began to form in the Precambrian. More than half of the basement rock in the massif is metamorphic, including the Edoukel mesozonal micaschist, Azanguerene gneiss, Tafourfouzete letpynite and possible ophiolite of the Aouzeueur formation. \n\nThe Volta Basin syncline along the border with Burkina Faso contains Neoproterozoic rocks, with the oldest rocks near the edge of the basin. After the 50 percent of basement rocks that are metamorphic, the rest of the rocks in the Air Massif Renatt type and Dabaga type granite, which formed during the Pan-African orogeny mountain building event 600 million years ago. \n\nDuring the Cambrian as multi-cellular life became commonplace, anorogenic magmatism formed ring complexes, that now comprise 30 different massifs in the Niger-Nigerian Younger Granite Province. The oldest, Cambrian massifs formed in the north. \n\nThroughout the Paleozoic ring complexes with significant variety in structure and rock type formed in the Air Massif. In fact, the Air Massif has the largest ring-dike in the world, with a diameter of 65 kilometers. Geologists subdivide the different ring complexes into three different types. The Taghouaji-type has plutonic alkaline rocks and may have peralluminous granites while the Goudai-type is mainly acid volcanic rocks. The Ofoud-type is the most varied, encompassing gabbros, granites and anorthosite. \n\nThe Iullemeden Basin at Tamesna began to form in the Paleozoic. The center of the basin was uplifted by the Hercynian orogeny to form the Hoggar Mountains. Sedimentary rocks from the Paleozoic, thicken toward the mountains and to the south. East of Tamesna, Cambrian and Ordovician sedimentary rocks are up to 500 meters thick and include conglomerates and sandstones. There is an unconformity between these deposits and glacial sediments, associated with the widespread glaciation and global cooling of the Ordovician-Silurian extinction event. In ascending order, glacial deposits are overlain by Early Silurian graptolite shales, Devonian sandstones and shales and Early Carboniferous deltaic sandstones. \n\nA coal bearing layer, likely tied to a marine transgression is overlain by shales and limestones, which contain coral and conodont fossils. \n\nA marine transgression in the Cenomanian, during the late Mesozoic topped off the Iulllemeden Basin with marine sedimentary rocks, often on top of Early Cretaceous terrestrial sedimentary rocks. The region remained flooded well into the Cenozoic, throughout the Paleocene, before drying out and shifting from marine sediment deposition to continental sediments. \n\nHydrogeology in Niger is poorly researched. The Eocene Continental Terminal is an unconfined sandstone aquifer. \n\nMined uranium is Niger's biggest export, but mining remains a relatively small part of GDP. The country also has gold and coal and deposits of tin and phosphate were mined in the past. Uranium is extracted from two concessions at Arlit and Akouta, more than 200 kilometers northwest of Agadez, with estimated reserves of 200,000 tons. Low global demand for uranium has driven down production for more than 30 years since 1986. There may be other reserves at Imouraren, Afasto Ouest, Abkorum-Azelik, Afasto Est, Tassa N'Taghalgue and Teguida N'Tessoun, with uranium concentrations ranging between 0.22 and 0.45 percent. Molybdenum is often produced as a byproduct of uranium mining. Niger also has vein-type copper deposits, with malachite and chalcopyrite associated with molybdenum, lithium and silver—or zinc and lead in the Proche-Tenere District. Native copper, chrysocolla and cuprite are found in sediments in the Agadez region. \n\nRelatively low-grade coal formed in a small basin at Anou-Araren, with estimated reserves of 10 megatons. Because of its poor quality, it is mainly used to provide electricity for uranium mines. The Iullemeden Basin contains lignite and small amounts of petroleum. \nThe Liptako area in the northeast is the terminus of the West African gold belt, which extends from the Atlantic in Ghana. It hosts gold in the Birimian greenstones of Tera-Gasso and Gorouel belts. The gold belt actually extends further east, past the Niger River, but is largely concealed by younger sediments and sedimentary rocks. Gold mineralization also occurs in shear-related quartz veins. Some gold has been freed from sulfides in these veins by laterite weathering due to heavy rainfall in the last 2.5 million years of the Quaternary. Silver mineralization occurs where greenstones and granite intrusions meet, in the same quartz veins that host gold and sulfides. The silver is typically mineralized within sphalerite, chalcopyrite, arsenopyrite, pyrite or covellite. \nOne hundred thirty five kilometers south of Niamey, is the Tapoa phosphate deposit Neoproterozoic and Cambrian sedimentary rocks of the Volta Group. The Tahoua deposit, 375 kilometers northeast of the capital contains nodular apatite in Paleocene and Eocene sediments. The Tidekelt region has up to 25 million tons of salt brines, with a yield of 70 percent sodium chloride. \n\nThere are some indications of platinum in the Makalondi District, south of Liptako, associated with chromite lenses in gabbros, anorthosite and chloritoschists. Ophiolites in the Abuzegueur overthurst, in the Air region also show potential for platinum mineralization and may also have chromite, nickel and cobalt. The Fantio deposit in the Liptako area has heavily weathered ultra-mafic rocks, with 0.8 percent nickel, totaling up to as much as 200,000 tons. Makalondi, also in Liptako, hosts chromium concentrations of 5.1 to 17.4 percent. \n\nIron is common in Niger, in rocks from the Precambrian through the Cenozoic, although the Cenozoic rocks of the Termit-Agadem and Ader-Doutchi regions have the highest iron concentrations, at up to 55 percent. Pegmatite hosted, granite and sedimentary deposits of tin were mined commercially from 1984 until 1991 in the Air Massif. Today, only small scale artisanal mining continues. \n"}
{"id": "58922005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58922005", "title": "Geology of the Czech Republic", "text": "Geology of the Czech Republic\n\nThe geology of the Czech Republic is highly tectonically complex, split between the Western Carpathian Mountains and the Bohemian Massif. \n\nThe geologic development of the territory of the Czech Republic was influenced by the cratonization of the Bohemian Massif at the end of the Permian. and with simulataneous orogenic activation of the Carpathian basement. Simultaneously, orogenic activity activated Carpathian basement.\n\nThe pre-Pan-African elements of the Bohemian Massif remain poorly understood because of their allochthonous position in Pan-African and Variscan units. The Svetlik orthogneiss in southern Bohemia is 2.1 billion years old and the Dobra granite gneiss is 1.37 billion years old. Together, they may be the oldest elements of the Bohemian Massif. The Svetlik orthogneiss occurring between the Monotonous and Varied Groups of the Moldanubicum might correspond to Gondwana-derived terrane (the Penteverian crust formed 2.1 billion years ago). The age of 1.37 billion year age of the Dobra Gneiss suggests possible origin as Laurentia or Baltica.\n\nThe Pan-African orogenic belt formed 800-570 million years), formed between Laurentia and Gondwana as well as microcontinent segments, can be traced to the Bohemian Massif. For instance, Precambrian metamorphic rocks act as a footwall of conglomerates from the early Cambrian conglomerates, formed the 550 to 580 million years ago in the Lugian Pluton, the 520 660 year old Ma Brno pluton is similar. Cadomian, Pan-African 600 million year old overprinting on zircons is found in many parts of Europe.\n\nIn addition to debates about the Pan-African orogeny, the Caledonian orogeny in the Bohemian Massif is poorly understood. In the Saxothuringicum area and in the major part of the Lugicum, there is no break at the Silurian-Devonian boundary. Sedimentary deposition began in the early Cambrian and in elsewhere in the Ordovician and ended by the mid-Carboniferous orogeny 330 to 320 million years ago. The few indications of the Silurian/Devonian hiatus in N Lugicum are not of retional significance. Higher ages of the amphibolites (ophiolite) complex of the Marinaska Lazne (486 Ma) point to an early Ordovician extension (Bowes and Aftalion, 1991, Medaris, Jelinek and Misaf 1994) and c. 500 Ma granite gneisses of the Lugicum (Kroner, Hegner and Jaeckel, 1994) early Ordovician magmatic activity, However, these ages have to be considered as minimum ones.\n\nIn the Brunovistulicum the transgression of early Devonian conglomerates on the pre-Devonian of rome precisely the Pan-Afican basement seaks favorably of its geotectonic independence on W units of the Bohemian Massif. \n\nAt the time of oceanic subduction of the Rhenohercynicum below the Saxothuringicum, areas of the Bohemian Massif were reworked. Moldanubicum rocks experienced very intensive reconstruction, producing mantle-crust interaction granulite and eclogite facies rocks. Nappe and shear tectonics appeared the Moldanubicum as it was joined with the Moravosilesicum and Brunovistulicum to other segments of the Bohemian Massif.\n\nA platform cycle began at the Permian-Triassic boundary with periodic erosion and occasional marine transgressions into the late Cretaceous and Paleogene, coupled with alkali volcanic activity. Radial faulting during the Alpine orogeny took place. \nPre-Triassic development of the Czech West Carphathians is related to the Brunovistulicums. The pre-Devonian basement and the sedimentary cover of the Brunovistulicum underlie the Mesozoic and Cenozoic formations in the West Carpathians. Limestone in the south are from the Triassic and Jurassic. To the north is an allochtonous ocean environment, to the north ofthe Klippen Belt. The Outer Flysch Carpathians formed after the main Carpathian Orogeny in the late Cretaceous, showing synorogenic sedimentary sequences from Cretaceous-Oligocene age that move northward as far as the Carpathian Foredeep. The last thrusting in late Miocene brought erosion, local uplifting and subsidence in Quaternary depressions. \n\nResource such as silver, gold and iron ore have been mined since the Middle Ages. The Bohemian Massif and the Western Carpathians are the main metallogenic zones. The Bohemian Massif is characterized by icomplex, mostly epigenetic, mineralization of Variscan age including gold, tin, uranium, silver, lead, zinc and limited copper together black coal deposits from both the Carboniferous and Cenozoic. The West Carpathians have no resources. A few oil fields, such as the Hodonin field in the Vienna basin exist.\n\nMoldanubian metallogenic province covers most of the Moldanubicum. In the Moldanubian subprovince, lead and zinc form as vein deposits with silver in the aureole of the Central Moldanubian Pluton and Central Bohemian Pluton (including ore districts such as Kutna Hora, Prribram and Jihlava). Vein deposits of gold ores and the disseminated gold deposit at Mokrsko, south of Prague are limited to the western contact with the Central Bohemian Pluton. Uranium ore deposits in the Pribram district or near the contact of the Bohemicum-Moldanubicum, northeast of the Cesky les Tachov or at the contact of the Central Moldanubian Pluton have been investigated since the 1980s. An unusual zinc-copper ore deposit was mined in the last after 1982 in the Ransko gabbro-peridotite massif which also shows some nickel sulfide mineralization. \nThe Krkonose Mountains metallogenic subprovince in the Lugicoum area, centers on the Krkonose Pluton and the Orlicke hory Mountains-Klodzko subrovince. It has highly variable deposit of little economic importance including lead, zinc, copper and gold. \n"}
{"id": "22805155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22805155", "title": "Georg Hassel", "text": "Georg Hassel\n\nJohann Georg Heinrich Hassel (30 December 1770 in Wolfenbüttel – 18 January 1829 in Weimar) was a German geographer and statistician. He was an influential figure in the early 19th century and published several large books of geography and statistics. Hassel was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1828.\n\n"}
{"id": "48438243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48438243", "title": "Gruhabhanga", "text": "Gruhabhanga\n\nGrahabanga ( is a well-known novel by one of the most important novelists in Kannada S L Bhyrappa. The plot depicts rural India, starts around the 1920s and ends around the 1940s. The story has the heroic struggle of a woman against her idiotic husband, vicious mother-in-law, superstitious neighbours and pervading poverty. Tiptur, Channarayapatna regions are covered in this novel. This novel is considered an Indian classic and hence National Book Trust, India translated this into all the fourteen major languages of India. In 2003 it was made into a television series by Girish Kasaravalli which was produced by the actress Soundarya.\n"}
{"id": "6004586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6004586", "title": "Guela, Republic of the Congo", "text": "Guela, Republic of the Congo\n\nGuela, also known as Ngela (or Guéla/Ngéla), is a region of the Congo-Brazzaville with some 4000 inhabitants.\n"}
{"id": "12836352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12836352", "title": "Huilo-Huilo Falls", "text": "Huilo-Huilo Falls\n\nHuilo-Huilo ( , ) is a waterfall located in Huilo-Huilo Biological Reserve in southern Chile. It lies next to Neltume in the international road to Hua Hum Pass, in the border to Argentina. The waters of the Huilo-Huilo Falls originates in Lácar Lake in Argentina. During the summer it frequently dries, as consequence of low precipitation and subterranean runoff. As consequence of this infiltration a large aquifer is situated under Mocho-Choshuenco volcano. Contact between the water of the aquifer and magma may have caused the explosive phreatic eruptions that created the \"Tumba del Buey\" (bull's tomb) crater on the western flank of the Mocho-Choshuenco.\n"}
{"id": "20650090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20650090", "title": "Index of Netherlands Antilles-related articles", "text": "Index of Netherlands Antilles-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of topics related to the former nation of the Netherlands Antilles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14580", "title": "Indian Ocean", "text": "Indian Ocean\n\nThe Indian Ocean is the third largest of the world's oceanic divisions, covering (approximately 20% of the water on the Earth's surface). It is bounded by Asia on the north, on the west by Africa, on the east by Australia, and on the south by the Southern Ocean or, depending on definition, by Antarctica. It is named after India.\n\nCalled the Sindhu Mahasagara or the great sea of the Sindhu by the Ancient Indians, this Ocean has been variously called Hindu,Indic Ocean etc in various languages. The Indian Ocean was also known earlier as the Eastern Ocean, or Eastern Sea. The term was still in use during the mid-18th century.\n\nThe borders of the Indian Ocean, as delineated by the International Hydrographic Organization in 1953 included the Southern Ocean but not the marginal seas along the northern rim, but in 2000 the IHO delimited the Southern Ocean separately, which removed waters south of 60°S from the Indian Ocean, but included the northern marginal seas. Meridionally, the Indian Ocean is delimited from the Atlantic Ocean by the 20° east meridian, running south from Cape Agulhas, and from the Pacific Ocean by the meridian of 146°55'E, running south from the southernmost point of Tasmania. The northernmost extent of the Indian Ocean is approximately 30° north in the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe Indian Ocean covers , including the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf but excluding the Southern Ocean, or 19.5% of the world's oceans; its volume is or 19.8% of the world's oceans' volume; it has an average depth of and a maximum depth of .\n\nThe ocean's continental shelves are narrow, averaging in width. An exception is found off Australia's western coast, where the shelf width exceeds . The average depth of the ocean is . Its deepest point is Sunda Trench at a depth of ; Diamantina Deep has a depth of . North of 50° south latitude, 86% of the main basin is covered by pelagic sediments, of which more than half is globigerina ooze. The remaining 14% is layered with terrigenous sediments. Glacial outwash dominates the extreme southern latitudes.\n\nThe major choke points include Bab el Mandeb, Strait of Hormuz, the Lombok Strait, the Strait of Malacca and the Palk Strait. Seas include the Gulf of Aden, Andaman Sea, Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal, Great Australian Bight, Laccadive Sea, Gulf of Mannar, Mozambique Channel, Gulf of Oman, Persian Gulf, Red Sea and other tributary water bodies. The Indian Ocean is artificially connected to the Mediterranean Sea through the Suez Canal, which is accessible via the Red Sea. All of the Indian Ocean is in the Eastern Hemisphere and the centre of the Eastern Hemisphere is in this ocean.\n\nMarginal seas, gulfs, bays and straits of the Indian Ocean include:\nThe climate north of the equator is affected by a monsoon climate. Strong north-east winds blow from October until April; from May until October south and west winds prevail. In the Arabian Sea the violent Monsoon brings rain to the Indian subcontinent. In the southern hemisphere, the winds are generally milder, but summer storms near Mauritius can be severe. When the monsoon winds change, cyclones sometimes strike the shores of the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.\n\nThe Indian Ocean is the warmest ocean in the world. Long-term ocean temperature records show a rapid, continuous warming in the Indian Ocean, at about during 1901–2012. Indian Ocean warming is the largest among the tropical oceans, and about 3 times faster than the warming observed in the Pacific. Research indicates that human induced greenhouse warming, and changes in the frequency and magnitude of El Niño events are a trigger to this strong warming in the Indian Ocean.\n\nAmong the few large rivers flowing into the Indian Ocean are the Zambezi, Shatt al-Arab, Indus, Godavari, Krishna, Narmada, Ganges, Brahmaputra, Jubba and Irrawaddy. The ocean's currents are mainly controlled by the monsoon. Two large gyres, one in the northern hemisphere flowing clockwise and one south of the equator moving anticlockwise (including the Agulhas Current and Agulhas Return Current), constitute the dominant flow pattern. During the winter monsoon, however, currents in the north are reversed.\n\nDeep water circulation is controlled primarily by inflows from the Atlantic Ocean, the Red Sea, and Antarctic currents. North of 20° south latitude the minimum surface temperature is , exceeding to the east. Southward of 40° south latitude, temperatures drop quickly.\n\nPrecipitation and evaporation leads to salinity variation in all oceans, and in the Indian Ocean salinity variations are driven by: (1) river inflow mainly from the Bay of Bengal, (2) fresher water from the Indonesian Throughflow; and (3) saltier water from the Red Sea and Persian Gulf.\nSurface water salinity ranges from 32 to 37 parts per 1000, the highest occurring in the Arabian Sea and in a belt between southern Africa and south-western Australia. Pack ice and icebergs are found throughout the year south of about 65° south latitude. The average northern limit of icebergs is 45° south latitude.\n\nAs the youngest of the major oceans, the Indian Ocean has active spreading ridges that are part of the worldwide system of mid-ocean ridges. In the Indian Ocean these spreading ridges meet at the Rodrigues Triple Point with the Central Indian Ridge, including the Carlsberg Ridge, separating the African Plate from the Indian Plate; the Southwest Indian Ridge separating the African Plate from the Antarctic Plate; and the Southeast Indian Ridge separating the Australian Plate from the Antarctic Plate. The Central Ridge runs north on the in-between across of the Arabian Peninsula and Africa into the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nA series of ridges and seamount chains produced by hotspots pass over the Indian Ocean. The Réunion hotspot (active 70–40 million years ago) connects Réunion and the Mascarene Plateau to the Chagos-Laccadive Ridge and the Deccan Traps in north-western India; the Kerguelen hotspot (100–35 million years ago) connects the Kerguelen Islands and Kerguelen Plateau to the Ninety East Ridge and the Rajmahal Traps in north-eastern India; the Marion hotspot (100–70 million years ago) possibly connects Prince Edward Islands to the Eighty Five East Ridge. These hotspot tracks have been broken by the still active spreading ridges mentioned above.\n\nAmong the tropical oceans, the western Indian Ocean hosts one of the largest concentration of phytoplankton blooms in summer, due to the strong monsoon winds. The monsoonal wind forcing leads to a strong coastal and open ocean upwelling, which introduces nutrients into the upper zones where sufficient light is available for photosynthesis and phytoplankton production. These phytoplankton blooms support the marine ecosystem, as the base of the marine food web, and eventually the larger fish species. The Indian Ocean accounts for the second largest share of the most economically valuable tuna catch. Its fish are of great and growing importance to the bordering countries for domestic consumption and export. Fishing fleets from Russia, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan also exploit the Indian Ocean, mainly for shrimp and tuna.\n\nResearch indicates that increasing ocean temperatures are taking a toll on the marine ecosystem. A study on the phytoplankton changes in the Indian Ocean indicates a decline of up to 20% in the marine phytoplankton in the Indian Ocean, during the past six decades. The tuna catch rates have also declined abruptly during the past half century, mostly due to increased industrial fisheries, with the ocean warming adding further stress to the fish species.\n\nEndangered marine species include the dugong, seals, turtles, and whales.\n\nAn Indian Ocean garbage patch was discovered in 2010 covering at least . Riding the southern Indian Ocean Gyre, this vortex of plastic garbage constantly circulates the ocean from Australia to Africa, down the Mozambique Channel, and back to Australia in a period of six years, except for debris that get indefinitely stuck in the centre of the gyre.\n\nIn 2016, UK researchers from Southampton University identified six new animal species at hydrothermal vents beneath the Indian Ocean. These new species were a \"Hoff\" crab, a \"giant peltospirid\" snail, a whelk-like snail, a limpet, a scaleworm and a polychaete worm.\n\nThe history of the Indian Ocean is marked by maritime trade; cultural and commercial exchange probably date back at least seven thousand years. During this period, independent, short-distance oversea communications along its littoral margins have evolved into an all-embracing network. The début of this network was not the achievement of a centralised or advanced civilisation but of local and regional exchange in the Persian Gulf, the Red Sea, and Arabian Sea. Sherds of Ubaid (2500–500 BCE) pottery have been found in the western Gulf at Dilmun, present-day Bahrain; traces of exchange between this trading centre and Mesopotamia. The Sumerians traded grain, pottery, and bitumen (used for reed boats) for copper, stone, timber, tin, dates, onions, and pearls.\nCoast-bound vessels transported goods between the Indus Valley Civilisation (2600–1900 BCE) in India (modern-day Pakistan and Gujarat in India) and the Persian Gulf and Egypt.\n\n\"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\", an Alexandrian guide to the world beyond the Red Sea — including Africa and India — from the first century CE, not only gives insights into trade in the region but also shows that Roman and Greek sailors had already gained knowledge about the monsoon winds. The contemporaneous settlement of Madagascar by Indonesian sailors shows that the littoral margins of the Indian Ocean were being both well-populated and regularly traversed at least by this time. Albeit the monsoon must have been common knowledge in the Indian Ocean for centuries.\n\nThe world's earliest civilizations in Mesopotamia (beginning with Sumer), ancient Egypt, and the Indian subcontinent (beginning with the Indus Valley civilization), which began along the valleys of the Tigris-Euphrates, Nile and Indus rivers respectively, all developed around the Indian Ocean. Civilizations soon arose in Persia (beginning with Elam) and later in Southeast Asia (beginning with Funan).\n\nDuring Egypt's first dynasty ( 3000 BCE), sailors were sent out onto its waters, journeying to Punt, thought to be part of present-day Somalia. Returning ships brought gold and myrrh. The earliest known maritime trade between Mesopotamia and the Indus Valley (c. 2500 BC) was conducted along the Indian Ocean. Phoenicians of the late 3rd millennium BCE may have entered the area, but no settlements resulted.\n\nThe Indian Ocean's relatively calmer waters opened the areas bordering it to trade earlier than the Atlantic or Pacific oceans. The powerful monsoons also meant ships could easily sail west early in the season, then wait a few months and return eastwards. This allowed ancient Indonesian peoples to cross the Indian Ocean to settle in Madagascar around 1 CE.\n\nIn the 2nd or 1st century BCE, Eudoxus of Cyzicus was the first Greek to cross the Indian Ocean. The probably fictitious sailor Hippalus is said to have discovered the direct route from Arabia to India around this time. During the 1st and 2nd centuries AD intensive trade relations developed between Roman Egypt and the Tamil kingdoms of the Cheras, Cholas and Pandyas in Southern India. Like the Indonesian peoples above, the western sailors used the monsoon to cross the ocean. The unknown author of the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" describes this route, as well as the commodities that were traded along various commercial ports on the coasts of the Horn of Africa and India circa 1 CE. Among these trading settlements were Mosylon and Opone on the Red Sea littoral.\n\nUnlike the Pacific Ocean where the civilization of the Polynesians reached most of the far flung islands and atolls and populated them, almost all the islands, archipelagos and atolls of the Indian Ocean were uninhabited until colonial times. Although there were numerous ancient civilizations in the coastal states of Asia and parts of Africa, the Maldives were the only island group in the Central Indian Ocean region where an ancient civilization flourished. Maldivian ships used the Indian Monsoon Current to travel to the nearby coasts.\n\nFrom 1405 to 1433 Admiral Zheng He led large fleets of the Ming Dynasty on several treasure voyages through the Indian Ocean, ultimately reaching the coastal countries of East Africa.\nIn 1497 Portuguese navigator Vasco da Gama rounded the Cape of Good Hope and became the first European to sail to India and later the Far East. The European ships, armed with heavy cannon, quickly dominated trade. Portugal achieved pre-eminence by setting up forts at the important straits and ports. Their hegemony along the coasts of Africa and Asia lasted until the mid 17th century. Later, the Portuguese were challenged by other European powers. The Dutch East India Company (1602–1798) sought control of trade with the East across the Indian Ocean. France and Britain established trade companies for the area. From 1565 Spain established a major trading operation with the Manila Galleons in the Philippines and the Pacific. Spanish trading ships purposely avoided the Indian Ocean, following the Treaty of Tordesillas with Portugal. By 1815, Britain became the principal power in the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe opening of the Suez Canal in 1869 revived European interest in the East, but no nation was successful in establishing trade dominance. Since World War II the United Kingdom was forced to withdraw from the area, to be replaced by India, the USSR, and the United States. The last two tried to establish hegemony by negotiating for naval base sites. Developing countries bordering the ocean, however, seek to have it made a \"zone of peace\" so that they may use its shipping lanes freely. The United Kingdom and United States maintain a military base on Diego Garcia atoll in the middle of the Indian Ocean.\n\nOn 26 December 2004 the countries surrounding the Indian Ocean were hit by a tsunami caused by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake. The waves resulted in more than 226,000 deaths and over 1 million people were left homeless.\n\nIn the late 2000s the ocean evolved into a hub of pirate activity. By 2013, attacks off the Horn region's coast had steadily declined due to active private security and international navy patrols, especially by the Indian Navy.\n\nMalaysian Airlines Flight 370, a Boeing 777 airliner with 239 persons on board, disappeared on 8 March 2014 and is alleged to have crashed into the southeastern Indian Ocean about 2,000km from the coast of southwest Western Australia. Despite an extensive search, the whereabouts of the remains of the aircraft are unknown.\n\nThe sea lanes in the Indian Ocean are considered among the most strategically important in the world with more than 80 percent of the world’s seaborne trade in oil transits through Indian Ocean and its vital choke points, with 40 percent passing through the Strait of Hormuz, 35 percent through the Strait of Malacca and 8 percent through the Bab el-Mandab Strait.\nThe Indian Ocean provides major sea routes connecting the Middle East, Africa, and East Asia with Europe and the Americas. It carries a particularly heavy traffic of petroleum and petroleum products from the oil fields of the Persian Gulf and Indonesia. Large reserves of hydrocarbons are being tapped in the offshore areas of Saudi Arabia, Iran, India, and Western Australia. An estimated 40% of the world's offshore oil production comes from the Indian Ocean. Beach sands rich in heavy minerals, and offshore placer deposits are actively exploited by bordering countries, particularly India, Pakistan, South Africa, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, and Thailand.\n\nThe Port of Singapore is the busiest port in the Indian Ocean, located in the Strait of Malacca where it meets the Pacific. Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Kochi, Mormugao Port, Mundra, Port Blair, Visakhapatnam, Paradip, Ennore, and Tuticorin are the major Indian ports. South Asian ports include Chittagong in Bangladesh, Colombo, Hambantota and Galle in Sri Lanka, Chabahar in Iran and ports of Karachi, Sindh province and Gwadar, Balochistan province in Pakistan. Aden is a major port in Yemen and controls ships entering the Red Sea. Major African ports on the shores of the Indian Ocean include: Mombasa (Kenya), Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar (Tanzania), Durban, East London, Richard's Bay (South Africa), Beira (Mozambique), and Port Louis (Mauritius). Zanzibar is especially famous for its spice export. Other major ports in the Indian Ocean include Muscat (Oman), Yangon (Burma), Jakarta, Medan (Indonesia), Fremantle (port servicing Perth, Australia) and Dubai (UAE).\n\nChinese companies have made investments in several Indian Ocean ports, including Gwadar, Hambantota, Colombo and Sonadia. This has sparked a debate about the strategic implications of these investments. \n\nSmall islands dot the continental rims. Island nations within the ocean are Madagascar (the world's fourth largest island), Bahrain, Comoros, Maldives, Mauritius, Seychelles and Sri Lanka. The archipelago of Indonesia and the island nation of East Timor border the ocean on the east.\n\nHeading roughly clockwise, the states and territories (in italics) with a coastline on the Indian Ocean (including the Red Sea and Persian Gulf) are:\n\nAfrica\nAsia\n\nAustralasia\n\nSouthern Indian Ocean\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28940295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28940295", "title": "International rankings of Brunei", "text": "International rankings of Brunei\n\nThese are the international rankings of Brunei\n\n"}
{"id": "36468389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36468389", "title": "Kandhlawi", "text": "Kandhlawi\n\nKandhlawi (, \"Kāndhlawī\") is a nisbat or surname derived from the name of the city of Kandhla in India.\n\nKandhlavi, Kandhalawi, Kandhalavi, Kandahlawi, Kandahlavi, Kandhalwi, Kandhalvi, Kandhelwi, Kandhelvi, Kandhlawee\n\n"}
{"id": "18903589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18903589", "title": "Keith Briggs (mathematician)", "text": "Keith Briggs (mathematician)\n\nKeith Briggs is a mathematician notable for several world-record achievements in the field of computational mathematics:\n\n\nAn article about him was in i-squared Magazine, Issue 6 (Winter 2008/9).\n\nBriggs has Erdős_number equal to two, obtained by his joint authorship of two papers with George Szekeres. One of these papers was the last published by Szekeres before his death, and Szekeres was Erdős' first co-author.\n\nHe also studies the etymology of place-names.\n"}
{"id": "2741870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741870", "title": "Level (instrument)", "text": "Level (instrument)\n\nA level is an optical instrument used to establish or verify points in the same horizontal plane in a process known as levelling, and is used in conjunction with a levelling staff to establish the relative heights levels of objects or marks. It is widely used in surveying and construction to measure height differences and to transfer, measure, and set heights of known objects or marks. \n\nIt is also known as a Surveyors level, Builders level, Dumpy level or the historic \"Y\" level. It operates on the principle of establishing a visual level relationship between two or more points, for which an inbuilt telescope and a highly accurate bubble level are used to achieve the necessary accuracy. Traditionally the instrument was completely adjusted manually to ensure a level line of sight, but modern automatic versions self-compensate for slight errors in the coarse levelling of the instrument, and are thereby quicker to use. \n\nThe optical level should not be confused with a theodolite which can also measure angles in the vertical plane. \n\nAn optical level consists of a precision telescope with crosshairs and Stadia marks. The cross hairs are used to establish the level point on the target, and the stadia allow range-finding; stadia are usually at ratios of 100:1, in which case one metre between the stadia marks on the levelling staff repesents 100 metres from the target.\n\nThe complete unit is normally mounted on a tripod, and the telescope can freely rotate 360° in a horizontal plane. The surveyor adjusts the instrument's level by coarse adjustment of the tripod legs and fine adjustment using three precision levelling screws on the instrument to make the rotational plane horizontal. The surveyor does this with the use of a bull's eye level built into the instrument mount.\n\nThe surveyor looks through the eyepiece of the telescope while an assistant holds a vertical level staff which is a graduated in inches or centimeters. The level staff is placed with its foot on the point for which the level measurement is required. The telescope is rotated and focused until the level staff is plainly visible in the crosshairs. In the case of a tilting level, the fine level adjustment is made by an altitude screw, using a high accuracy bubble level fixed to the telescope. This can be viewed by a mirror whilst adjusting or the ends of the bubble in a \"split bubble\" display can be viewed within the telescope. This also allows assurance of the accurate level of the telescope whilst the sight is being taken. However, in the case of an automatic level, altitude adjustment is done automatically by a suspended prism due to gravity, as long as the coarse levelling of the instrument base is accurate within certain limits. \n\nWhen level, the staff graduation reading at the crosshairs is recorded, and an identifying mark or marker placed where the level staff rested on the object or position being surveyed.\n\nIn 1832, English civil engineer and inventor William Gravatt, who was commissioned to examine a scheme for the South Eastern Railway's route from London to Dover, became frustrated with the slow and cumbersome operation of the \"Y\" level during the survey work, and devised the more transportable and easier to use dumpy level.\n\nThe telescope of the historic \"y\" level is held in two brass arms, which are part of the mount and the telescope could be easily removed to allow sighting reversal though 180 degrees or an axial rotation of the telescope; both to compensate for optical collimation errors. Because the telescope is not fixed to the level adjusting mechanism, the Y instrument is assembled and disassembled for each sighting station. However, the dumpy level is permanently secured to its two support arms and the levelling mechanism, thereby reducing measurement uncertainty and considerably reducing the time taken to set up the instrument. The Dumpy uses the same basic principle of level sighting.\n\nAfter careful setup of the level, the height of the cross hairs is determined by either sighting from a known benchmark with known height determined by a previous survey or an arbitrary point with an assumed height is used.\n\nSighting is done with an assistant surveyor who holds a graduated staff vertical at the point under measurement. The surveyor rotates the telescope until the graduated staff is in the cross hairs and records the reading. This is repeated for all sightings from that datum. Should the instrument be moved to another position within sighting distance, it is re-levelled, and a sighting taken of a known level in the previous survey. This relates any new levels to the previous levels.\n\nThe term dumpy level (also builder's level) endures despite the evolution in design. They can be manual or automatic - the latter being much quicker to set up.\n\nA tilting level is a variant which has a precision vertical adjustment screw which tilts both the telescope and the high accuracy bubble level attached to it to make them level. This reduces the complete reliance on the levelling accuracy of the instruments's bottom mount, and the \"split bubble\" display gives additional assurance that the telescope is level whilst taking the sight. This allows faster operation as the bottom mount need not be truly level, though it will introduce a slight error as the vertical axis of the mount is not completely co-incident with the telescope centre. The split bubble works by displaying half of both ends of the bubble side by side in the telescope and when the curved ends are aligned it is level. \n\nAn automatic level, self-levelling level, or builder's auto level includes an internal compensator mechanism (a swinging prism) that, when set close to level, automatically removes any remaining variation. This reduces the need to set the instrument base truly level, as with a dumpy level. Self-levelling instruments are the preferred instrument on building sites, construction, and during surveying due to ease of use and rapid setup time.\n\nA digital electronic level is also set level on a tripod and reads a bar-coded staff using electronic laser methods. The height of the staff where the level beam crosses the staff is shown on a digital display. This type of level removes interpolation of graduation by a person, thus removing a source of error and increasing accuracy. During night time, the dumpy level is used in conjunction with an auto cross laser for accurate scale readings.\n\nA Transit Level also has the ability to measure the azimuth of a target object with respect to a reference in the horizontal plane. The instrument is rotated to sight the target, and the angle is read off a calibrated scale,\nIn the first chapter of Thomas Hardy's 1887 novel \"The Woodlanders\", the narrator states, \"He knew every subtle incline of the ten miles of ground between Abbot's Cernel and Sherton—the market town to which he journeyed—as accurately as any surveyor could have learnt it by a Dumpy level.\"\n\nIn the online game , there is a quest in Wetlands given by Surveyor Thurdan to retrieve his lost dumpy level. He even comments on the name, saying, \"I didn't name the bloody thing, alright? Go look it up!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57780138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57780138", "title": "List of Bad Education episodes", "text": "List of Bad Education episodes\n\nThe following is a list of episodes of British television sitcom \"Bad Education\", which was broadcast on BBC Three from 2012 to 2014.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nOn 11 June 2014, Jack Whitehall announced that the third series of \"Bad Education\" had gone into production and the first episode would be broadcast on 16 September 2014.\nEpisode ratings from BARB.\n\nIndividual box sets for series one, two, and three were released on 9 September 2013, 29 September 2014, and 31 August 2015 respectively.\n\nA box set containing both the first and second series of \"Bad Education\" was released on DVD on 29 September 2014.\n\nA box set containing all three series was made available on 31 August 2015.\n"}
{"id": "31554580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31554580", "title": "List of airlines of New Caledonia", "text": "List of airlines of New Caledonia\n\nThis is a list of airlines currently operating in New Caledonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "27776555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27776555", "title": "List of flags of convenience", "text": "List of flags of convenience\n\nThe International Transport Workers' Federation maintains a list of countries it considers to be flag of convenience in regard to ship registration. There are currently 35 registries on the list.\n\nIn developing the list, the ITF considers \"ability and willingness of the flag state to enforce international minimum social standards on its vessels,\" the \"degree of ratification and enforcement of ILO Conventions and Recommendations,\" and \"safety and environmental record.\" The following registries are on the ITF list (with figures sourced from the CIA World Factbook):\n\n"}
{"id": "1121484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1121484", "title": "List of heads of government of Ethiopia", "text": "List of heads of government of Ethiopia\n\nThis is a list of heads of government of Ethiopia since the formation of the post of Chief Minister of the Ethiopian Empire in 1909 (renamed to Prime Minister in 1943). Since 1909, there have been 3 chief ministers and 11 Prime Ministers and one was both Chief Minister and Prime Minister, making a total of 15 persons being or having been \"head of government\".\n\nMost of the Prime Ministers were regular Prime Ministers, appointed through a regular political process. Some others were acting Prime Ministers only (indicated in the list below), while others were both acting and regular Prime Ministers during their term(s). In addition, there is one Prime Minister who was acting Prime Minister first, then was regularly appointed and finally served as a caretaker Prime Minister of an outgoing government: Hailemariam Desalegn. During the 1960 Ethiopian coup attempt, two Prime Ministers served at the same time, the regular one and an irregular one appointed by the leaders of the coup. Also there was an Interim Prime Minister after the end of the Ethiopian Civil War.\n\nIn modern Ethiopia since 1995, the Prime Minister is not only the head of government, but also the commander-in-chief of the Ethiopian National Defense Force. The current Prime Minister, Abiy Ahmed, took office on 2 April 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4442616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4442616", "title": "List of mayors of Zürich", "text": "List of mayors of Zürich\n\nThe mayor of the Swiss city of Zürich (\"Stadtpräsident von Zürich\") presides the city council (\"Stadtrat\"). \nThe office of mayor (\"Bürgermeister\") was introduced with the guild revolution of 1336, and held by Rudolf Brun until 1360. It was abolished in the Helvetic Republic (1798–1803). In 1803, the title of \"Bürgermeister\" was given to the head of the cantonal government, and the office of the city mayor was renamed to \"Stadtpräsident\").\n\nAfter its accession to the Swiss Confederacy in 1351, Zürich was divided in its loyalties between its alliance with the Confederacy and the ties of its patriciate to the House of Habsburg. The guilds enforced a number of concessions from the pro-Habsburg patriciate in 1373, among other things the reduction of the power of the office of the mayor. \nFrom this time, Zürich had two elected mayors, who alternately were in office for half a year.\nThe same conflict erupted once again in the so-called \"Schöno dispute\" (\"Schöno-Handel\") in 1393, in which the pro-Habsburg mayor Rudolf Schön (Schöno) was deposed by the pro-Confederate guilds and the constitution was changed again to reduce the mayor's influence.\n\nFrom 1803–1850 the title of \"Bürgermeister\" was held by the cantonal government, while the title of the city's mayor was changed to \"Stadtpräsident\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2899093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2899093", "title": "List of people on the postage stamps of the Faroe Islands", "text": "List of people on the postage stamps of the Faroe Islands\n\nThe Faroe Islands issued their first stamps January 30, 1975. As the isles are an independent part of Denmark, Danish stamps were used on the isles previously. \n\nFrom a philatelist point of view, there are earlier occasions in the postal history of the Faroe Islands, but the first stamps came in 1975.\n"}
{"id": "239183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239183", "title": "List of place names with royal patronage in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of place names with royal patronage in the United Kingdom\n\nThe following list of place names with royal patronage in the United Kingdom includes both those granted a royal title or status by express wish of a specific monarch, and those with prefixes or suffixes such as \"King's\" or \"Regis\" that relate to historic ownership of the area by the Crown.\n\nThe following places have been explicitly granted or confirmed the use of the title \"royal\" by royal charter, letters patent or similar instrument issued by the monarch. Since 1926 the entitlement to the title \"royal borough\" has been strictly enforced. Devizes in Wiltshire, which had previously used the title without authorisation, was forced to end the practice.\n\n\n\"Regis\", Latin for \"of the king\", occurs in numerous placenames. This usually recalls the historical ownership of lands or manors by the Crown. The \"Regis\" form was often used in the past as an alternative form to \"King's\", for instance at King's Bromley and King's Lynn.\n\nExamples include Houghton Regis in Bedfordshire, Salcombe Regis in Devon, Bere Regis, Melcombe Regis and Lyme Regis in Dorset, Milton Regis in Kent, Beeston Regis in Norfolk, Grafton Regis in Northamptonshire, Brompton Regis in Somerset, Newton Regis in Warwickshire and Rowley Regis in the West Midlands.\n\nThere is one modern example of the granting of the suffix \"regis\". In 1929, George V, having spent several months recuperating from a serious illness in the seaside resort of Bognor, West Sussex, allowed it to be renamed as \"Bognor Regis\".\n\n\n\n\n\nKingsburgh, Skye is a corruption of Cinnseaborgh, which is in turn a corruption of a Norse name.\n\nIn many places \"Kin(g)\" is a suffix meaning \"head\", an anglicisation of \"Ceann\": Kinghorn and Kingussie, for example, are nothing to do with royal patronage.\n\n\n\n\nIn Scotland a royal burgh was a burgh or incorporated town founded by, or subsequently granted, a royal charter. By 1707, when the Act of Union with England and Wales came into effect, there were 70 royal burghs. None were created after 1707, and they were formally abolished in 1975. Notwithstanding their abolition, the term is still used in many of the former burghs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44290012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44290012", "title": "List of tallest buildings in Azerbaijan", "text": "List of tallest buildings in Azerbaijan\n\nThis is the list of all buildings taller than 100 m (328 ft) in Baku, Azerbaijan.\n"}
{"id": "45147358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45147358", "title": "List of years in the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "List of years in the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThis is a list of years in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42698182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42698182", "title": "M. R. G. Conzen", "text": "M. R. G. Conzen\n\nMichael Robert Günter Conzen (Berlin, 21 January 1907 – Newcastle upon Tyne, 4 February 2000) was a geographer, founder of the Anglo-German school of urban morphology. Conzen's most influential work is a detailed morphological study of the English market town of Alnwick. His work is noted among others for the micro-scale study of the evolution of plots.\n\nM.R.G. Conzen studied geography, history and philosophy at the University of Berlin between 1926–1932. One of his mentors was geographer Herbert Louis, who in turn was a disciple of the Austrian geographer Norbert Krebs (Krebs was a prominent pupil of Albrecht Penck and influenced Carl O. Sauer in his writings on the morphology of landscape). In 1933 Conzen emigrated to the UK, where he studied at the Victoria University of Manchester first obtaining a diploma in town and country planning in 1936 and a master's degree in historical geography in 1942.\n\n\nWhitehand, J.W.R. (2001): \"British Urban Morphology: the Conzenian tradition\", in \"Urban Morphology\", vol.5, nr.2, pg.103-109\n"}
{"id": "23279015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23279015", "title": "Manuel Dias the Younger", "text": "Manuel Dias the Younger\n\nManuel Dias the Younger (1574– 4 March 1659) was a Portuguese Jesuit missionary.\n\nManuel Dias the Younger () acquired his epithet to distinguish him from Manuel Dias the Elder (–1639). He is also known as Emanuel or Emmanuel Diaz. His name was sinified as Yang Manuo (), and he was also referred to by his courtesy name Yanxi (演西).\n\nDias arrived in China in 1610, reaching Beijing in 1613. He introduced the telescope into China just a few years after it had been developed in the Netherlands (1608). The telescope was first mentioned in his \"Tian Wen Lüe\" (\"Explicatio Sphaerae Coelestis\") in 1615. In the \"Tian Wen Lüe\" he presented the latest European astronomical knowledge in the form of questions and answers. The book was studied and published until the 19th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25154417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25154417", "title": "Maputo Special Reserve", "text": "Maputo Special Reserve\n\nMaputo Special Reserve, (formerly known as Maputo Elephant Reserve), is a nature reserve in Mozambique. The reserve is located on Maputo Bay, approximately 100 kilometers southeast of the city of Maputo, Mozambique. The Reserve is in extent and was originally proclaimed in 1932. The reserve will eventually form part of the Lubombo Transfrontier Conservation Area, which includes national parks from South Africa, Mozambique and Swaziland. At the moment it forms part of the Usuthu-Tembe-Futi Transfrontier Conservation Area.\n\nIncludes 350 African elephants, Birds (Kingfisher, Fish Eagle and many more), zebra, antelope, crocodiles, hippos, small bucks (red duiker, suni, reedbuck and steenbok).\n"}
{"id": "44998032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44998032", "title": "Mud Islands Game Reserve", "text": "Mud Islands Game Reserve\n\nMud Islands Game Reserve is a protected area in South Australia covering ten islands at the southern side of Lake Alexandrina about south-east of Goolwa. The game reserve is described as providing ‘an ideal habitat for water birds, particularly waterfowl’ and that ‘duck shooting is permitted during open season.’ The game reserve is classified as an IUCN Category VI protected area. Since 2000, the game reserve has been located within the boundaries of the gazetted locality, Coorong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1720813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1720813", "title": "Novi Zagreb – zapad", "text": "Novi Zagreb – zapad\n\nNovi Zagreb – zapad (, \"Novi Zagreb – west\") has the status of a city district () in Zagreb, Croatia and as such has an elected council.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Croatian census, Novi Zagreb – zapad had 58,103 residents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1261966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261966", "title": "Ojos del Salado", "text": "Ojos del Salado\n\nNevado Ojos del Salado is a stratovolcano in the Andes on the Argentina–Chile border and the highest active volcano in the world at . It is also the second highest mountain in the Western Hemisphere and Southern Hemisphere and the highest in Chile. It is located about north of Aconcagua, the highest mountain in the Western Hemisphere at .\n\nDue to its location near the Atacama Desert, the mountain has very dry conditions with snow usually only remaining on the peak during winter, though heavy storms can cover the surrounding area with a few feet of snow even in summer. Despite the generally dry conditions, there is a permanent crater lake about in diameter at an elevation of on the eastern side of the mountain. This is most likely the highest lake of any kind in the world.\n\nThe ascent of Ojos del Salado is mostly a hike except for the final section to the summit which is a difficult scramble that may require ropes. The first ascent was made in 1937 by Jan Alfred Szczepański and Justyn Wojsznis, members of a Polish expedition in the Andes.\n\nIts name, meaning roughly \"Eyes of the Salty One\" in Spanish, comes from the enormous deposits of salt that, in the form of lagoons or “eyes”, appear in its glaciers. An international highway between Chile and Argentina runs north of the mountain.\n\nOjos del Salado along with several other high volcanoes such as El Muerto, El Solo, Nevado Incahuasi and Nevado Tres Cruces lies at the southern end of the Central Volcanic Zone of the Andes.\n\nVolcanic activity in the region commenced 26 million years ago in the Cordillera Claudio Gay, at the same time as the neighbouring Maricunga Belt volcanoes were active. Starting 18 million years ago, local subduction of the Nazca Plate beneath the South America Plate became increasingly shallower and this caused volcanism to shift from the Maricunga Belt to the Ojos del Salado region.\n\nThe Paleozoic basement crops out only northwest of Nevado Tres Cruces. Other geologic units in the region are Oligocene sedimentary units and volcanic rocks ranging from Oligocene age to less than 1.5 million years old. The area is part of a tectonic boundary between a volcanically active region north of the boundary and a less volcanically active region south of the boundary, which is also characterized by geographical differences, e.g. the presence of transverse valleys.\n\nOjos del Salado like other major neighbouring mountains is a complex of lava domes and lava flows, with the main summit surrounded by peripheral domes such as El Solo and El Fraile and many other lateral centres. Fumaroles are encountered at the summit of Ojos del Salado within a depression. Potassium-argon dating has yielded ages of 1.2 ± 0.3 million years ago and less than 1 million years ago from rocks north of Ojos del Salado.\n\nThere are glaciers on the mountain, in the crater and in the form of penitentes which reach heights of . Other reports indicate the absence of glaciers on Ojos del Salado. Permafrost exists on the mountain and its melting nourishes several lakes; one lake fed by a creek lies at altitude.\n\nOjos del Salado is an active volcano, but the question of whether it should be considered \"currently\" (or \"historically\") active is arguable. According to the Smithsonian Institution's Global Volcanism Program, the most recent known eruption was about 1,300 years ago, with a large margin of uncertainty. However, there is also some evidence for a minor ash emission in 1993, which would definitely qualify the volcano as historically active. The presence of fumaroles high on the mountain and recent-looking lava flows, albeit of uncertain age, also argues in favor of a categorization as \"active.\" By these definitions, Ojos del Salado is the highest historically active volcano on Earth. If the older date is accepted, the title of \"highest historically active volcano\" might reside instead with the somewhat lower Llullaillaco volcano, which certainly has erupted in historic times (most recently in 1877) and is considered active.\n\nSalado's rock is predominantly potassium-rich dacite and rhyodacite. Its lavas are high in biotite, hornblende, plagioclase, and opaques, with lower levels of augite, quartz, and hypersthene.\n\nThe elevation of Ojos del Salado has been the subject of debate. The mountain is hidden behind other peaks and thus its height was not appreciated in early research until 1937, when the mountain was climbed by Polish climbers.\n\nA 2006 article in Andes Magazine offered that Ojos del Salado may be higher than Aconcagua, although the argument was premised on older, less accurate altitude surveys. The results of these older surveys assigned Ojos del Salado an elevation of , which would have made it nearly higher than Aconcagua. As early as 1955, an estimate was made that the elevation of Ojos del Salado was , but that was \"simply [...] based on the altitude of the final camp, and the hours of ascent to the summit.\" In 1956, the first Chilean expedition led by the retired lieutenant René Gajardo measured the height of Ojos del Salado as with a pocket pressure altimeter. Apart from being an inexact method, the height shown by the altimeter was far too high as air pressure is generally lower in the afternoon, the time at which the team reached the summit.\n\nAn expedition to the area in the 1990s claimed that nearby Monte Pissis was even higher than Ojos del Salado. Later measurements using more precise equipment showed that Ojos del Salado is about higher than Pissis. Furthermore, in 2007 a Chilean–Argentine–European expedition organized by Andes Magazine and Azimut 360 performed a survey on both Ojos del Salado and Monte Pissis using more accurate instruments. It found the former to be and the latter Although this fits within recent handheld GPS surveys, which have estimated the mountain to be between and , the vertical error margin of the expedition's equipment, , leaves uncertainty as to the mountain's more precise altitude.\n\nOjos del Salado has two summits, one in Argentina and the other in Chile (the border between the two countries runs between the two summits). The difference in elevation of the two summits is less than \n\nOjos del Salado has been a popular mountain for attempts to attain the highest altitude aboard a land vehicle.\n\nThe current record altitude for a four-wheeled vehicle was set on 21 April 2007 by the Chilean duo of Gonzalo Bravo G. and Eduardo Canales Moya. Reaching an altitude of 6,688 meters (21,942 ft.) with a modified Suzuki Samurai, the duo beat the previous record of 6,646 m which had been set on 13 March 2007 by German Matthias Jeschke in a Jeep Wrangler Unlimited Rubicon.\n\nJeschke currently holds the high altitude record for trucks reaching a height of 6,675 meters (21,899 ft) with a Mercedes-Benz Zetros truck on 6 March 2015. This is also a world record for a diesel-powered engine.\n\nOn 19 April 2015 Chilean Gianfranco Bianchi reached an altitude of 6,472 m (21,233 ft) with a Suzuki RMZ 450, setting the altitude record for a motorcycle.\n\nThe latest publicized record attempt commenced on 6 November 2017 and again involved Matthias Jeschke. With two RMMV HX trucks Jeschke attempted to gain two world records, one for construction at altitude and the other by beating the current 6,688 m record. A refuge hut was built at 6,100 m (a record), but on December 19 it was announced the altitude record attempt had been called off at a height of 6,150 m for a combination of factors including an insurmountable rock barrier and adverse weather conditions. A further attempt may be made in early 2018.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45446", "title": "Political ecology", "text": "Political ecology\n\nPolitical ecology is the study of the relationships between political, economic and social factors with environmental issues and changes. Political ecology differs from apolitical ecological studies by politicizing environmental issues and phenomena.\n\nThe academic discipline offers wide-ranging studies integrating ecological social sciences with political economy in topics such as degradation and marginalization, environmental conflict, conservation and control, and environmental identities and social movements.\n\nThe term \"political ecology\" was first coined by Frank Thone in an article published in 1935. It has been widely used since then in the context of human geography and human ecology, but with no systematic definition. Anthropologist Eric R. Wolf gave it a second life in 1972 in an article entitled \"Ownership and Political Ecology\", in which he discusses how local rules of ownership and inheritance \"mediate between the pressures emanating from the larger society and the exigencies of the local ecosystem\", but did not develop the concept further Other origins include other early works of Eric R. Wolf, Hans Magnus Enzensberger, Susanna Hecht, and others in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe origins of the field in the 1970s and 1980s were a result of the development of development geography and cultural ecology., particularly the work of Piers Blaikie on the sociopolitical origins of soil erosion. Historically, political ecology has focused on phenomena in and affecting the developing world; since the field's inception, \"research has sought primarily to understand the political dynamics surrounding material and discursive struggles over the environment in the third world\".\n\nScholars in political ecology are drawn from a variety of academic disciplines, including geography, anthropology, development studies, political science, sociology, forestry, and environmental history.\n\nPetra Kelly is one of the founding figures of political ecologist parties trought Germany and Europe.\n\nPolitical ecology’s broad scope and interdisciplinary nature lends itself to multiple definitions and understandings. However, common assumptions across the field give the term relevance. Raymond L. Bryant and Sinéad Bailey developed three fundamental assumptions in practising political ecology:\n\n\nIn addition, political ecology attempts to provide critiques and alternatives in the interplay of the environment and political, economic and social factors. Paul Robbins asserts that the discipline has a \"normative understanding that there are very likely better, less coercive, less exploitative, and more sustainable ways of doing things\".\n\nFrom these assumptions, political ecology can be used to:\n\nPolitical ecology’s movement as a field since its inception in the 1970s has complicated its scope and goals. Through the discipline’s history, certain influences have grown more and less influential in determining the focus of study. Peter A. Walker traces the importance of the ecological sciences in political ecology. He points to the transition, for many critics, from a ‘structuralist’ approach through the 1970s and 1980s, in which ecology maintains a key position in the discipline, to a 'poststructuralist' approach with an emphasis on the 'politics' in political ecology. This turn has raised questions as to the differentiation with environmental politics as well as the field’s use of the term of 'ecology'. Political ecological research has shifted from investigating political influence on the earth's surface to the focus on spatial-ecological influences on politics and power—a scope reminiscent of environmental politics.\n\nMuch has been drawn from cultural ecology, a form of analysis that showed how culture depends upon, and is influenced by, the material conditions of society (political ecology has largely eclipsed cultural ecology as a form of analysis according to Walker.) As Walker states, \"whereas cultural ecology and systems theory emphasize[s] adaptation and homeostasis, political ecology emphasize[s] the role of political economy as a force of maladaptation and instability\".\n\nPolitical ecologists often use political economy frameworks to analyze environmental issues. Early and prominent examples of this were \"The Political Economy of Soil Erosion in Developing Countries\" by Piers Blaikie in 1985, which traced land degradation in Africa to colonial policies of land appropriation, rather than over-exploitation by African farmers, and \"Silent Violence: Food, Famine and Peasantry in Northern Nigeria\" by Michael Watts in 1983, which traced the famine in northern Nigeria during the 1970s to the effects of colonialism, rather than an inevitable consequence of the drought in the Sahel.\n\nOriginating in the 18th and 19th centuries with philosophers such as Adam Smith, Karl Marx, and Thomas Malthus, political economy attempted to explain the relationships between economic production and political processes. It tended toward overly structuralist explanations, focusing on the role of individual economic relationships in the maintenance of social order. Eric Wolf used political economy in a neo-Marxist framework which began addressing the role of local cultures as a part of the world capitalist system, refusing to see those cultures as \"primitive isolates\". But environmental effects on political and economic processes were under-emphasised.\n\nConversely, Julian Steward and Roy Rappaport's theories of cultural ecology are sometimes credited with shifting the functionalist-oriented anthropology of the 1950s and 1960s and incorporating ecology and environment into ethnographic study.\n\nGeographers and anthropologists worked with the strengths of both to form the basis of political ecology. PE focuses on issues of power, recognizing the importance of explaining environmental impacts on cultural processes without separating out political and economic contexts. \n\nThe application of political ecology in the work of anthropologists and geographers differs. While any approach will take both the political/economic and the ecological into account,the emphasis can be unequal. Some, such as geographer Michael Watts, focus on how the assertion of power impacts on access to environmental resources. His approach tends to see environmental harm as both a cause and an effect of “social marginalization”.\n\nPolitical ecology has strengths and weaknesses. At its core, it contextualizes political and ecological explanations of human behavior. But as Walker points out, it has failed to offer “compelling counter-narratives” to “widely influential and popular yet deeply flawed and unapologetic neo-Malthusian rants such as Robert Kaplan's (1994) 'The coming anarchy' and Jared Diamond's (2005) \"Collapse\" (385). Ultimately, applying political ecology to policy decisions – especially in the US and Western Europe – will remain problematic as long as there is a resistance to Marxist and neo-Marxist theory.\n\nAndrew Vayda and Bradley Walters (1999) criticize political ecologists for pre-supposing “the importance ... of certain kinds of political factors in the explanation of environmental changes” (167). Vayda and Walter's response to overly political approaches in political ecology is to encourage what they call “event ecology”, focusing on human responses to environmental events without presupposing the impact of political processes on environmental events. The critique has not been taken up widely.\n\nThere is a divergence of ideas between conservation science and political ecology. With conservationists establishing protected areas to conserve biodiversity, \"political ecologists have devoted some energy to the study of protected areas, which is unsurprising given political ecology's overall interest in forms of access to, and control over resources\". The arguments against enclosure of land for conservation is that it harms local people and their livelihood systems, by denying them access. As Dove and Carpenter state, \"indigenous people have important environmental knowledge which could contribute to conservation\". The objection by political ecologists is that land use regulations are made by NGOs and the government, denying access, denying the ability of local people to conserve species and areas themselves, and rendering them more vulnerable through dispossession.\n\nSome prominent contemporary scholars include:\n\nScholarly journals that have been key to the development (and critique) of this field include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "470128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=470128", "title": "Príncipe", "text": "Príncipe\n\nPríncipe is the smaller, northern major island of the country of São Tomé and Príncipe lying off the west coast of Africa in the Gulf of Guinea. It has an area of and a population of 7,324 (2012). The island is a heavily eroded volcano speculated to be over three million years old, surrounded by smaller islands including Ilheu Bom Bom, Ilhéu Caroço, Tinhosa Grande and Tinhosa Pequena. Part of the Cameroon Line archipelago, Príncipe rises in the south to 947 metres at Pico do Príncipe. The island is the main constituent of the Autonomous Region of Príncipe, established in 1995, and of the coterminous district of Pagué.\n\nThe island was uninhabited when discovered by the Portuguese on 17 January 1471 and was first named after Saint Anthony (\"Ilha de Santo Antão\"). Later the island was renamed Príncipe by King John II of Portugal in honour of his son Afonso, Prince of Portugal. The first settlement, the town Santo António, was founded in 1502. Subsequently, the north and centre of the island were made into plantations by Portuguese colonists using slave labor. These concentrated initially on producing sugar and after 1822 on cocoa, becoming the world's greatest cocoa producer. Since independence, these plantations have largely reverted to forest.\n\nThe island's fortress named Fortaleza de Santo António da Ponta da Mina on a point inside Baía de Santo António (Santo António Bay) was built in 1695. In 1706, the city and the fortress were destroyed by the French. From 1753 until 1852, Santo António was the colonial capital of Portuguese São Tomé and Príncipe.\n\nPríncipe was the site where Einstein's theory of relativity was experimentally corroborated by Arthur Stanley Eddington and his team during the total solar eclipse of May 29, 1919; photographs of the eclipse revealed evidence of the 'bending' of starlight, in accordance with Einstein's predictions.\n\nOn April 29, 1995, the Autonomous Region of Príncipe was established, corresponding with the existing Pagué District. \n\nPríncipe has one town, Santo António, and an airport (IATA code: PCP, ICAO: FPPR). Some other smaller settlements are Sundy and Porto Real.\n\nPortuguese is the official and main language of the island. Portuguese creoles are also spoken: Principense or Lunguyê and, in some scale, Forro are also spoken.\n\nIn 1771, Príncipe had a population of 5,850: 111 whites, 165 free mulattoes, 6 mulatto slaves, 900 free blacks, and 4,668 black slaves. In 1875, the year when slavery was officially abolished in the archipelago, Príncipe’s population had dropped to only 1,946, of whom 45 were Europeans, 1,521 were free natives, and 380 were freemen.\n\nIn 2006, the Parque Natural Obô do Príncipe was established, covering the mountainous, densely forested and uninhabited southern part of the island of Príncipe. There are numerous endemic species of fauna on Príncipe, including birds such as the Príncipe kingfisher, Principe seedeater, Principe starling, Príncipe sunbird, black-capped speirops (\"Zosterops lugubris\"), Dohrn's thrush-babbler, the Príncipe weaver and the Príncipe white-eye, geckos include the Príncipe gecko (\"Hemidactylus principensis\"), frogs include the palm forest tree frog and the \"Phrynobatrachus dispar\". Marine fauna includes \"Muricopsis principensis\", a mollusc and the West African mud turtle.\n\nUNESCO established the Island of Príncipe Biosphere Reserve in 2012 under the Man and the Biosphere Programme. The reserve encompasses the entire emerged area of the island of Príncipe, and its islets Bom Bom, Boné do Jóquei, Mosteiros, Santana, and Pedra da Galei, and the Tinhosas islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57495927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57495927", "title": "Rodenburg", "text": "Rodenburg\n\nRodenburg is a Dutch toponymic surname. Among variant spellings are \"Rodenburgh\", \"Roodenburch\", \"Roodenburg\", and \"Roodenburgh\", each pronounced in Dutch. The name may indicate an origin in Rodenburgh, the medieval name of the city Aardenburg in Zeeland. Meaning \"red castle\" or \"red fortres\", a number of castles and fortresses in the Low Countries carried that name as well. People with this surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48593539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48593539", "title": "Seasonal tropical forest", "text": "Seasonal tropical forest\n\nSeasonal tropical forest: also known as moist deciduous, semi-evergreen seasonal, tropical mixed or monsoon forests, typically contain a range of tree species: only some of which drop some or all of their leaves during the dry season. This tropical forest is classified under the Walter system as (ii) tropical climate with high overall rainfall (typically in the 1000–2500 mm range; 39–98 inches) concentrated in the summer wet season and cooler “winter” dry season: representing a range of habitats influenced by monsoon (Am) or tropical wet savannah (Aw) climates (as in the Köppen climate classification). Drier forests in the Aw climate zone are typically deciduous and placed in the Tropical dry forest biome: with further transitional zones (ecotones) of savannah woodland then tropical and subtropical grasslands, savannas, and shrublands.\n\nSeasonal (mixed) tropical forests can be found in many parts of the tropical zone, with examples found in:\n\nThe climate of seasonal forests is typically controlled by a system called the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) located near the equator and created by the convergence of the trade winds from the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The position of these bands vary seasonally, moving north in the northern summer and south in the northern winter, and ultimately controlling the wet and dry seasons in the tropics.\nThese regions appear to have experienced strong warming, at a mean rate of 0.26 degrees Celsius per decade, which coincides with a global rise in temperature resulting from the anthropocentric inputs of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Studies have also found that precipitation has declined and tropical Asia has experienced an increase in dry season intensity whereas Amazonian has no significant pattern change in precipitation or dry season. Additionally, El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events drive the inter-annual climatic variability in temperature and precipitation and result in drought and increased intensity of the dry season. As anthropogenic warming increases the intensity and frequency of ENSO will increase, rendering tropical rainforest regions susceptible to stress and increased mortality of trees and other plants.\n\nAs with tropical rainforests there are different canopy layers, but these may be less pronounced in mixed forests, which are often characterised by numerous lianas due to their growth advantage during the dry season. The colloquial term jungle, originally derived from Sanskrit, has no specific ecological meaning but originally referred to this type of primary and especially secondary forest in the Indian subcontinent. Determining which stands of mixed forest are primary and secondary can be problematic, since the species mixture is influenced by factors such as soil depth and climate, as well as human interference.\n\nThe fauna and flora of seasonal tropical mixed forest are usually distinctive. Examples of the biodiversity and habitat type are often well described for National Parks in:\n\n"}
{"id": "52157407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52157407", "title": "TeLEOS-1", "text": "TeLEOS-1\n\nTeLEOS-1 is Singapore's first commercial earth observation satellite launched on a PSLV-C29 vehicle of ISRO from SDSC (Satish Dhawan Space Center) at Sriharikota on December 16, 2015 along with other five satellites developed in Singapore. The satellite is aimed at providing high temporal imagery and geospatial solutions for homeland security and border control; maritime monitoring and disaster management around the equatorial belt. TeLEOS-1 is developed by ST Engineering.\n\nIn May 2011, ST Electronics (Satcom & Sensor Systems) Pte Ltd, Nanyang Technological University and Defence Science Organisation Laboratories (Singapore) established a joint venture, ST Electronics (Satellite Systems) Pte Ltd (STEE-SatSys), to design, develop and deploy an earth observation satellite with an aim to harness the indigenous potential in satellite development and to check the commercial viability of the satellite. In February 2014, Two independent suppliers of small and microsatellites – ATK Space Systems Inc. of Beltsville MD, USA and ST EE-SatComS - entered into an commercial agreement for the distribution of satellite imagery to the world market. On Feb. 5, 2014, Antrix Corporation, the commercial arm of ISRO, signed a Launch Services Agreement with ST EE-SatComs, Singapore, for the launch of the TeLEOS-1 Earth Observation Satellite. Subsequently, the satellite was launched on December 16, 2015. On July 26, 2016, STEE announced the commencement of its commercial imagery service of the satellite. On February 16, 2016, first test images of the TeLEOS-1 mission were displayed at the Singapore Airshow 2016.\n\nThe satellite is equipped with electro-optical camera payload that is capable of performing imaging at ground resolution of down to one metre. It carries 8GB of solid storage for storage of imagery captured by the panchromatic camera.\n\nThe imagery captured by the satellite will be useful in the areas of maritime security and disaster management such as :\n\n\nTeLEOS-1, along with five other Singaporean satellites, was launched successfully aboard PSLV-C29 on December 16, 2015. The launch took place at 6 PM local time from Satish Dhawan Space Centre in the southeastern India. The satellite was placed into a 550-kilometer circular orbit inclined at 15 degrees relative to the equator.Singapore government paid 26 million euros ($30 million) for the launch.\n\n"}
{"id": "18670722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18670722", "title": "Telephone numbers in Costa Rica", "text": "Telephone numbers in Costa Rica\n\nCountry Code: +506<br>\n\nInternational Call Prefix: 00\n\nNumber plan type: closed\n\nAs of 2010 the government body in charge of allocations is the Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones SUTEL (In Spanish)\n\nPrefix 00 was reserved for international calls, while prefix 9 was assigned to special numbers, such as 9-1-1. Toll-free numbers start with 800 followed by 7 digits while premium-rate numbers start with 900 followed by 7 digits.\n\nBefore 1994, all phone numbers in Costa Rica were six digits long. The Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad, which at that time had the monopoly on telecommunications, introduced a system in which the telephone numbers in every province were assigned a prefix to make them 7 digits long.\nThis numbering system was effective for some time. However, the boom of mobile phone customers since the introduction of GSM around 2000 and the expansion of metropolitan areas caused a serious shortage of available numbers. Thus many GSM-based customers used numbers starting with 3 and many residents of San Jose province had telephone numbers starting with prefixes other than 2.\n\nSince March 20, 2008, a renewed numbering system added the prefix 2 for all landlines and 8 for all mobile phone numbers. This system was implemented in order to face the introduction of 1.5 million 3G W-CDMA customers in Q1 2009. The transition to 8-digit numbers was heavily publicized in Costa Rican media. However, the change caused considerable confusion among foreigners. Also, all calls dialed using the old 7-digit version of the phone number are automatically redirected to a voice message with information about the change.\n\nIn 2010, after the end of the government monopoly in telecommunications, prefixes 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 were assigned to private operators.\n\n8-digit numbers are commonly written one of two ways: \"xxxxxxxx\" or \"xxxx-xxxx\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21368203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21368203", "title": "Termit Massif", "text": "Termit Massif\n\nThe Termit Massif (Termit Mountains or simply the Termit) is a mountainous region in southeastern Niger. Just to the south of the dunes of Tenere desert and the Erg of Bilma, the northern areas of the Termit, called the Gossololom consists of black volcanic peaks which jut from surrounding sand seas. The southern Termit is a roughly east-west range of heavily eroded black sandstone. Its foothills on the south west are the Koutous hills.\n\nThe small population of the Termit is mostly nomadic, with Toubou settlements in the north and east, and more Tuareg and Diffa Arabs to the west. Covering much of the north of the Zinder and Diffa Regions, there are few permanent settlements or all weather roads in the area. Communities within the region include Termit Kaoboul in the south centre and Kandil Bouzou in the southeast. Neighbouring settlements include Tasker, Abourak and Haltouma to the southwest; Béla Hardé to the southeast, and Koussa Arma, Oyou Bezezé Denga, and Agadem on the eastern fringe. Settled communities on the south west fringe are largely Hausa, and to the south east Kanuri. The large Kanuri town of N'guigmi is to the southeast and the Hausa cities of Goure and Zinder are to the southwest.\n\nTermit is home to the Termit Massif Reserve, a 700,000 hectare faunal reserve established in 1962 to protect endangered antelope and Addax populations.\n\nIn 2006, the government of Niger applied to UNESCO to have the Termit Massif area named a UNESCO World Heritage site.\n"}
{"id": "55322600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55322600", "title": "Timeline of Port Louis", "text": "Timeline of Port Louis\n\nThe following is a of the history of the city of Port Louis on the island of Mauritius.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56854952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56854952", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Dominica", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Dominica\n\nDominica requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current plates are North American standard 6 × 12 inches (152 × 300 mm). Vehicles have black on white plates (front and rear) or black on white (front) and black on yellow (rear) plates.\n"}
{"id": "977421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977421", "title": "Walter William Skeat", "text": "Walter William Skeat\n\nWalter William Skeat (21 November 1835 – 6 October 1912), FBA, was the pre-eminent British philologist of his time. He was instrumental in developing the English language as a higher education subject in the United Kingdom.\n\nSkeat was born in London and educated at King's College School (Wimbledon), Highgate School, and Christ's College, Cambridge. He became a fellow at Christ's College in July 1860.\n\nIn 1860, Skeat was ordained an Anglican deacon and married Bertha Clara. In December 1860, he became a curate at East Dereham, where he served during 1861 and most of 1862. From 1862 to 1863, Skeat served as the curate at Godalming, Surrey. In October 1864, he returned to Cambridge University as a mathematics lecturer, a position he held until 1871.\n\nSkeat soon developed an interest in the history of the English language. In 1870, Skeat and Henry Bradshaw collaborated on an edition on Geoffrey Chaucer for the University of Oxford. However, the project fell through when Bradshaw failed to keep his commitment. In 1894, Skeat published a six-volume edition on Chaucer; a supplementary volume, \"Chaucerian Pieces\", was published in 1897.\n\nIn 1878, Skeat was elected the Elrington and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon at Cambridge. He completed Mitchell Kemble's edition of the \"Anglo-Saxon Gospels\", and did work both in Old English and the Gothic language. Skeat is best known for his work in Middle English, and for his standard editions of Chaucer and William Langland's \"Piers Plowman\".\n\nSkeat was the founder and only president of the English Dialect Society from 1873 to 1896. The society's purpose was to collect materials for the publication of \"The English Dialect Dictionary\". The society was dissolved in 1897.\n\nSkeat is buried at the Ascension Parish Burial Ground in Cambridge.\n\nSkeat's wife, Bertha Clara, born 6 February 1840, died 15 July 1924, is buried with him, as is a daughter Bertha Marian Skeat who was a writer and headmistress. His son was the anthropologist Walter William Skeat. His grandsons include the noted palaeographer T. C. Skeat and the stained glass painter Francis Skeat.\n\nIn pure philology, Skeat's principal achievement is his \"An Etymological Dictionary of the English Language\" (4 parts, 1879–1882; rev., and enlarged, 1910). While preparing the dictionary, he wrote hundreds of short articles on word origins for the London-based journal \"Notes and Queries\".\n\nSkeat also coined the term ghost word and was a leading expert in this subject. Skeat was also a pioneer of place-name studies. His major publications in this field include:\n\n\nSkeat edited works for the Early English Text Society:\n\nFor the Scottish Text Society:\n\nSkeat produced what is still the main edition of Ælfric of Eynsham's \"Lives of the Saints\"; the edition includes translations which were largely the work of two women referred to as Mss Gunning and Wilkinson, who were credited in the preface to his edition.\n\nAccording to A. J. Wyatt, Skeat 'was not a great teacher ... he left the teaching to those who had learned from him'---i.e. Wyatt himself and Israel Gollancz---'his teaching was episodic. Yet his lectures were eagerly followed by the fit though few; they were always interesting when least utilitarian, when he forgot examinations and syllabuses, and poured forth from the quaint storehouse of his motley memory things new and old'.\n\nSkeat's pedagogical works include:\n\n\nSkeat was one of the very few scholars in English studies who had sufficient expertise to compete with the state-employed and tenured colleagues from German universities.\n\nLike Henry Sweet, Skeat regarded Geoffrey Chaucer and other medieval English authors as part of his national heritage and objected to German scholars publishing works on them. At one point, Skeat exclaimed that even though he was \"...to some extent disqualified, as being merely a native of London, in which city Chaucer himself was born,\" he should be able to contribute scholarship on Chaucer without perceived German interference.\n\n"}
{"id": "53188117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53188117", "title": "ÑuSat", "text": "ÑuSat\n\nÑuSat satellites series (, pronounced just like the GNU project acronym), also known as codename Fresco, Batata, MilaneSat, Ada, Maryam (named after local culture reference on Argentinean deserts and food), is a series of Argentinean commercial Earth observation satellites constellation designed, built and operated by Satellogic.\n\nThe satellites in the constellation are identical 40 cm × 43 cm × 75 cm spacecraft of mass. The satellites are equipped with an imaging system operating in visible light and infrared. The constellation will allow for commercially available real-time Earth imaging and video with a ground resolution of . The satellite were developed based on the experience gained on the BugSat 1 (Tita) prototype satellite.\n\nThe Aleph-1 constellation will consist of up to 25 satellites. The first two satellites will be launched as piggy-back payloads on a Chinese CZ-4B rocket in April 2016 from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center into a 500 km sun synchronous orbit with an inclination of 97.5°. Four more will follow later in 2016.\n\nAn U/V transponder with 2 W of output power for 8 GHz downlink and 2 GHz uplink will be operating on 100 kHz bandwidth.\n\nMeMOSat, developed by the LabOSat Group, designed and built by a group of scientists at the National Atomic Energy Commission (), the National Institute of Industrial Technology (), the National University of San Martin () and National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET).\n\nThis memory was specially designed to operate in harsh environments and adverse conditions, such as the strong radiation it must withstand in space. Its main objective is to test electronic components that will be commercialized in the future.\n\nTo do this, the memory is made up of two metallic films with an oxide between about 20 nm thick, with electrical resistance properties, that can send information from the satellites, allowing to study their behavior in these hostile environments.\n\nAdditionally, ÑuSat-1 carries a U/V linear transponder called LUSEX provided by AMSAT Argentina (AMSAT-LU) to offer services to the HAM community.\n\nAlthough the satellites are officially named \"ÑuSat\", each satellite has a nickname, a tradition from Satellogic that dates back since its very first satellite \"Capitan Beto\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35980579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35980579", "title": "Đurđekovec", "text": "Đurđekovec\n\nĐurđekovec is a settlement in the City of Zagreb, Croatia, population 778 (2011). It is located around 9 km north-east of the city centre of Zagreb and adjacent to the Medvednica mountain.\n"}
