{"id": "1317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1317", "title": "Antimatter", "text": "Antimatter\n\nIn modern physics, antimatter is defined as a material composed of the antiparticle (or \"partners\") to the corresponding particles of ordinary matter. Microscopic numbers of antiparticles are generated daily at particle accelerators and in natural processes like cosmic ray collisions and some types of radioactive decay, but only a tiny fraction of these have successfully been bound together in experiments to form anti-atoms. No macroscopic amount of antimatter has ever been assembled due to the extreme cost and difficulty of production and handling. \n\nIn theory, a particle and its anti-particle (e.g., proton and antiproton) have the same mass as one another, but opposite electric charge and other differences in quantum numbers. For example, a proton has positive charge while an antiproton has negative charge. \n\nA collision between any particle and its anti-particle partner is known to lead to their \"mutual annihilation\", giving rise to various proportions of intense photons (gamma rays), neutrinos, and sometimes less-massive particle–antiparticle pairs. Annihilation usually results in a release of energy that becomes available for heat or work. The amount of the released energy is usually proportional to the total mass of the collided matter and antimatter, in accordance with the mass–energy equivalence equation, .\n\nAntimatter particles bind with one another to form antimatter, just as ordinary particles bind to form normal matter. For example, a positron (the antiparticle of the electron) and an antiproton (the antiparticle of the proton) can form an antihydrogen atom. The nuclei of antihelium have been artificially produced with difficulty, and these are the most complex anti-nuclei so far observed. Physical principles indicate that complex antimatter atomic nuclei are possible, as well as anti-atoms corresponding to the known chemical elements.\n\nThere is strong evidence that the observable universe is composed almost entirely of ordinary matter, as opposed to an equal mixture of matter and antimatter. \nThis asymmetry of matter and antimatter in the visible universe is one of the great unsolved problems in physics. The process by which this inequality between matter and antimatter particles developed is called baryogenesis.\n\nAntimatter particles can be defined by their negative baryon number or lepton number, while \"normal\" (non-antimatter) matter particles have a positive baryon or lepton number. These two classes of particles are the antiparticle partners of one another.\n\nThe idea of negative matter appears in past theories of matter that have now been abandoned. Using the once popular vortex theory of gravity, the possibility of matter with negative gravity was discussed by William Hicks in the 1880s. Between the 1880s and the 1890s, Karl Pearson proposed the existence of \"squirts\" and sinks of the flow of aether. The squirts represented normal matter and the sinks represented negative matter. Pearson's theory required a fourth dimension for the aether to flow from and into.\n\nThe term antimatter was first used by Arthur Schuster in two rather whimsical letters to \"Nature\" in 1898, in which he coined the term. He hypothesized antiatoms, as well as whole antimatter solar systems, and discussed the possibility of matter and antimatter annihilating each other. Schuster's ideas were not a serious theoretical proposal, merely speculation, and like the previous ideas, differed from the modern concept of antimatter in that it possessed negative gravity.\n\nThe modern theory of antimatter began in 1928, with a paper by Paul Dirac. Dirac realised that his relativistic version of the Schrödinger wave equation for electrons predicted the possibility of antielectrons. These were discovered by Carl D. Anderson in 1932 and named positrons (a portmanteau of \"positive electron\"). Although Dirac did not himself use the term antimatter, its use follows on naturally enough from antielectrons, antiprotons, etc. A complete periodic table of antimatter was envisaged by Charles Janet in 1929.\n\nThe Feynman–Stueckelberg interpretation states that antimatter and antiparticles are regular particles traveling backward in time.\n\nOne way to denote an antiparticle is by adding a bar over the particle's symbol. For example, the proton and antiproton are denoted as and , respectively. The same rule applies if one were to address a particle by its constituent components. A proton is made up of quarks, so an antiproton must therefore be formed from antiquarks. Another convention is to distinguish particles by their electric charge. Thus, the electron and positron are denoted simply as and respectively. However, to prevent confusion, the two conventions are never mixed.\n\nThere are compelling theoretical reasons to believe that, aside from the fact that antiparticles have different signs on all charges (such as electric charge and spin), matter and antimatter have exactly the same properties. This means a particle and its corresponding antiparticle must have identical masses and decay lifetimes (if unstable). It also implies that, for example, a star made up of antimatter (an \"antistar\") will shine just like an ordinary star. This idea was tested experimentally in 2016 by the ALPHA experiment, which measured the transition between the two lowest energy states of antihydrogen. The results, which are identical to that of hydrogen, confirmed the validity of quantum mechanics for antimatter.\n\nAlmost all matter observable from the Earth seems to be made of matter rather than antimatter. If antimatter-dominated regions of space existed, the gamma rays produced in annihilation reactions along the boundary between matter and antimatter regions would be detectable.\n\nAntiparticles are created everywhere in the universe where high-energy particle collisions take place. High-energy cosmic rays impacting Earth's atmosphere (or any other matter in the Solar System) produce minute quantities of antiparticles in the resulting particle jets, which are immediately annihilated by contact with nearby matter. They may similarly be produced in regions like the center of the Milky Way and other galaxies, where very energetic celestial events occur (principally the interaction of relativistic jets with the interstellar medium). The presence of the resulting antimatter is detectable by the two gamma rays produced every time positrons annihilate with nearby matter. The frequency and wavelength of the gamma rays indicate that each carries 511 keV of energy (i.e., the rest mass of an electron multiplied by \"c\").\n\nObservations by the European Space Agency's INTEGRAL satellite may explain the origin of a giant antimatter cloud surrounding the galactic center. The observations show that the cloud is asymmetrical and matches the pattern of X-ray binaries (binary star systems containing black holes or neutron stars), mostly on one side of the galactic center. While the mechanism is not fully understood, it is likely to involve the production of electron–positron pairs, as ordinary matter gains kinetic energy while falling into a stellar remnant.\n\nAntimatter may exist in relatively large amounts in far-away galaxies due to cosmic inflation in the primordial time of the universe. Antimatter galaxies, if they exist, are expected to have the same chemistry and absorption and emission spectra as normal-matter galaxies, and their astronomical objects would be observationally identical, making them difficult to distinguish. NASA is trying to determine if such galaxies exist by looking for X-ray and gamma-ray signatures of annihilation events in colliding superclusters.\n\nIn October 2017, scientists working on the BASE experiment at CERN reported a measurement of the antiproton magnetic moment to a precision of 1.5 parts per billion. It is consistent with the most precise measurement of the proton magnetic moment (also made by BASE in 2014), which supports the hypothesis of CPT symmetry. This measurement represents the first time that a property of antimatter is known more precisely than the equivalent property in matter.\n\nPositrons are produced naturally in β decays of naturally occurring radioactive isotopes (for example, potassium-40) and in interactions of gamma quanta (emitted by radioactive nuclei) with matter. Antineutrinos are another kind of antiparticle created by natural radioactivity (β decay). Many different kinds of antiparticles are also produced by (and contained in) cosmic rays. In January 2011, research by the American Astronomical Society discovered antimatter (positrons) originating above thunderstorm clouds; positrons are produced in gamma-ray flashes created by electrons accelerated by strong electric fields in the clouds. Antiprotons have also been found to exist in the Van Allen Belts around the Earth by the PAMELA module.\n\nAntiparticles are also produced in any environment with a sufficiently high temperature (mean particle energy greater than the pair production threshold). It is hypothesized that during the period of baryogenesis, when the universe was extremely hot and dense, matter and antimatter were continually produced and annihilated. The presence of remaining matter, and absence of detectable remaining antimatter, is called baryon asymmetry. The exact mechanism which produced this asymmetry during baryogenesis remains an unsolved problem. One of the necessary conditions for this asymmetry is the violation of CP symmetry, which has been experimentally observed in the weak interaction.\n\nRecent observations indicate black holes and neutron stars produce vast amounts of positron-electron plasma via the jets.\n\nSatellite experiments have found evidence of positrons and a few antiprotons in primary cosmic rays, amounting to less than 1% of the particles in primary cosmic rays. This antimatter cannot all have been created in the Big Bang, but is instead attributed to have been produced by cyclic processes at high energies. For instance, electron-positron pairs may be formed in pulsars, as a magnetized neutron star rotation cycle shears electron-positron pairs from the star surface. Therein the antimatter forms a wind which crashes upon the ejecta of the progenitor supernovae. This weathering takes place as \"the cold, magnetized relativistic wind launched by the star hits the non-relativistically expanding ejecta, a shock wave system forms in the impact: the outer one propagates in the ejecta, while a reverse shock propagates back towards the star.\" The former ejection of matter in the outer shock wave and the latter production of antimatter in the reverse shock wave are steps in a space weather cycle.\n\nPreliminary results from the presently operating Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (\"AMS-02\") on board the International Space Station show that positrons in the cosmic rays arrive with no directionality, and with energies that range from 10 GeV to 250 GeV. In September, 2014, new results with almost twice as much data were presented in a talk at CERN and published in Physical Review Letters. A new measurement of positron fraction up to 500 GeV was reported, showing that positron fraction peaks at a maximum of about 16% of total electron+positron events, around an energy of 275 ± 32 GeV. At higher energies, up to 500 GeV, the ratio of positrons to electrons begins to fall again. The absolute flux of positrons also begins to fall before 500 GeV, but peaks at energies far higher than electron energies, which peak about 10 GeV. These results on interpretation have been suggested to be due to positron production in annihilation events of massive dark matter particles.\n\nCosmic ray antiprotons also have a much higher energy than their normal-matter counterparts (protons). They arrive at Earth with a characteristic energy maximum of 2 GeV, indicating their production in a fundamentally different process from cosmic ray protons, which on average have only one-sixth of the energy.\n\nThere is no evidence of complex antimatter atomic nuclei, such as antihelium nuclei (i.e., anti-alpha particles), in cosmic rays. These are actively being searched for, because the detection of natural antihelium implies the existence of large antimatter structures such as an antistar. A prototype of the \"AMS-02\" designated \"AMS-01\", was flown into space aboard the on STS-91 in June 1998. By not detecting any antihelium at all, the \"AMS-01\" established an upper limit of 1.1×10 for the antihelium to helium flux ratio.\n\nPositrons were reported in November 2008 to have been generated by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in larger numbers than by any previous synthetic process. A laser drove electrons through a gold target's nuclei, which caused the incoming electrons to emit energy quanta that decayed into both matter and antimatter. Positrons were detected at a higher rate and in greater density than ever previously detected in a laboratory. Previous experiments made smaller quantities of positrons using lasers and paper-thin targets; however, new simulations showed that short, ultra-intense lasers and millimeter-thick gold are a far more effective source.\n\nThe existence of the antiproton was experimentally confirmed in 1955 by University of California, Berkeley physicists Emilio Segrè and Owen Chamberlain, for which they were awarded the 1959 Nobel Prize in Physics. An antiproton consists of two up antiquarks and one down antiquark (). The properties of the antiproton that have been measured all match the corresponding properties of the proton, with the exception of the antiproton having opposite electric charge and magnetic moment from the proton. Shortly afterwards, in 1956, the antineutron was discovered in proton–proton collisions at the Bevatron (Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory) by Bruce Cork and colleagues.\n\nIn addition to antibaryons, anti-nuclei consisting of multiple bound antiprotons and antineutrons have been created. These are typically produced at energies far too high to form antimatter atoms (with bound positrons in place of electrons). In 1965, a group of researchers led by Antonino Zichichi reported production of nuclei of antideuterium at the Proton Synchrotron at CERN. At roughly the same time, observations of antideuterium nuclei were reported by a group of American physicists at the Alternating Gradient Synchrotron at Brookhaven National Laboratory.\n\nIn 1995, CERN announced that it had successfully brought into existence nine hot antihydrogen atoms by implementing the SLAC/Fermilab concept during the PS210 experiment. The experiment was performed using the Low Energy Antiproton Ring (LEAR), and was led by Walter Oelert and Mario Macri. Fermilab soon confirmed the CERN findings by producing approximately 100 antihydrogen atoms at their facilities. The antihydrogen atoms created during PS210 and subsequent experiments (at both CERN and Fermilab) were extremely energetic and were not well suited to study. To resolve this hurdle, and to gain a better understanding of antihydrogen, two collaborations were formed in the late 1990s, namely, ATHENA and ATRAP.\n\nIn 1999, CERN activated the Antiproton Decelerator, a device capable of decelerating antiprotons from to —still too \"hot\" to produce study-effective antihydrogen, but a huge leap forward. In late 2002 the ATHENA project announced that they had created the world's first \"cold\" antihydrogen. The ATRAP project released similar results very shortly thereafter. The antiprotons used in these experiments were cooled by decelerating them with the Antiproton Decelerator, passing them through a thin sheet of foil, and finally capturing them in a Penning–Malmberg trap. The overall cooling process is workable, but highly inefficient; approximately 25 million antiprotons leave the Antiproton Decelerator and roughly 25,000 make it to the Penning–Malmberg trap, which is about or 0.1% of the original amount.\n\nThe antiprotons are still hot when initially trapped. To cool them further, they are mixed into an electron plasma. The electrons in this plasma cool via cyclotron radiation, and then sympathetically cool the antiprotons via Coulomb collisions. Eventually, the electrons are removed by the application of short-duration electric fields, leaving the antiprotons with energies less than . While the antiprotons are being cooled in the first trap, a small cloud of positrons is captured from radioactive sodium in a Surko-style positron accumulator. This cloud is then recaptured in a second trap near the antiprotons. Manipulations of the trap electrodes then tip the antiprotons into the positron plasma, where some combine with antiprotons to form antihydrogen. This neutral antihydrogen is unaffected by the electric and magnetic fields used to trap the charged positrons and antiprotons, and within a few microseconds the antihydrogen hits the trap walls, where it annihilates. Some hundreds of millions of antihydrogen atoms have been made in this fashion.\n\nIn 2005, ATHENA disbanded and some of the former members (along with others) formed the ALPHA Collaboration, which is also based at CERN. The ultimate goal of this endeavour is to test CPT symmetry through comparison of the atomic spectra of hydrogen and antihydrogen (see hydrogen spectral series).\n\nIn 2016 a new antiproton decelerator and cooler called ELENA (E Low Energy Antiproton decelerator) was built. It takes the antiprotons from the antiproton decelerator and cools them to 90 keV, which is \"cold\" enough to study. This machine works by using high energy and accelerating the particles within the chamber. More than one hundred antiprotons can be captured per second, a huge improvement, but it would still take several thousand years to make a nanogram of antimatter.\n\nMost of the sought-after high-precision tests of the properties of antihydrogen could only be performed if the antihydrogen were trapped, that is, held in place for a relatively long time. While antihydrogen atoms are electrically neutral, the spins of their component particles produce a magnetic moment. These magnetic moments can interact with an inhomogeneous magnetic field; some of the antihydrogen atoms can be attracted to a magnetic minimum. Such a minimum can be created by a combination of mirror and multipole fields. Antihydrogen can be trapped in such a magnetic minimum (minimum-B) trap; in November 2010, the ALPHA collaboration announced that they had so trapped 38 antihydrogen atoms for about a sixth of a second. This was the first time that neutral antimatter had been trapped.\n\nOn 26 April 2011, ALPHA announced that they had trapped 309 antihydrogen atoms, some for as long as 1,000 seconds (about 17 minutes). This was longer than neutral antimatter had ever been trapped before. ALPHA has used these trapped atoms to initiate research into the spectral properties of the antihydrogen.\n\nThe biggest limiting factor in the large-scale production of antimatter is the availability of antiprotons. Recent data released by CERN states that, when fully operational, their facilities are capable of producing ten million antiprotons per minute. Assuming a 100% conversion of antiprotons to antihydrogen, it would take 100 billion years to produce 1 gram or 1 mole of antihydrogen (approximately atoms of anti-hydrogen).\n\nAntihelium-3 nuclei () were first observed in the 1970s in proton–nucleus collision experiments at the Institute for High Energy Physics by Y. Prockoshkin's group (Protvino near Moscow, USSR) and later created in nucleus–nucleus collision experiments. Nucleus–nucleus collisions produce antinuclei through the coalescence of antiprotons and antineutrons created in these reactions. In 2011, the STAR detector reported the observation of artificially created antihelium-4 nuclei (anti-alpha particles) () from such collisions.\n\nAntimatter cannot be stored in a container made of ordinary matter because antimatter reacts with any matter it touches, annihilating itself and an equal amount of the container. Antimatter in the form of charged particles can be contained by a combination of electric and magnetic fields, in a device called a Penning trap. This device cannot, however, contain antimatter that consists of uncharged particles, for which atomic traps are used. In particular, such a trap may use the dipole moment (electric or magnetic) of the trapped particles. At high vacuum, the matter or antimatter particles can be trapped and cooled with slightly off-resonant laser radiation using a magneto-optical trap or magnetic trap. Small particles can also be suspended with optical tweezers, using a highly focused laser beam.\n\nIn 2011, CERN scientists were able to preserve antihydrogen for approximately 17 minutes. By 2018, containment technology advanced to the point of containing a billion anti-protons in a portable device to be driven to another lab for further experimentation.\n\nScientists claim that antimatter is the costliest material to make. In 2006, Gerald Smith estimated $250 million could produce 10 milligrams of positrons (equivalent to $25 billion per gram); in 1999, NASA gave a figure of $62.5 trillion per gram of antihydrogen. This is because production is difficult (only very few antiprotons are produced in reactions in particle accelerators), and because there is higher demand for other uses of particle accelerators. According to CERN, it has cost a few hundred million Swiss francs to produce about 1 billionth of a gram (the amount used so far for particle/antiparticle collisions). In comparison, to produce the first atomic weapon, the cost of the Manhattan Project was estimated at $23 billion with inflation during 2007.\n\nSeveral studies funded by the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts are exploring whether it might be possible to use magnetic scoops to collect the antimatter that occurs naturally in the Van Allen belt of the Earth, and ultimately, the belts of gas giants, like Jupiter, hopefully at a lower cost per gram.\n\nMatter–antimatter reactions have practical applications in medical imaging, such as positron emission tomography (PET). In positive beta decay, a nuclide loses surplus positive charge by emitting a positron (in the same event, a proton becomes a neutron, and a neutrino is also emitted). Nuclides with surplus positive charge are easily made in a cyclotron and are widely generated for medical use. Antiprotons have also been shown within laboratory experiments to have the potential to treat certain cancers, in a similar method currently used for ion (proton) therapy.\n\nIsolated and stored anti-matter could be used as a fuel for interplanetary or interstellar travel as part of an antimatter catalyzed nuclear pulse propulsion or other antimatter rocketry, such as the redshift rocket. Since the energy density of antimatter is higher than that of conventional fuels, an antimatter-fueled spacecraft would have a higher thrust-to-weight ratio than a conventional spacecraft.\n\nIf matter–antimatter collisions resulted only in photon emission, the entire rest mass of the particles would be converted to kinetic energy. The energy per unit mass () is about 10 orders of magnitude greater than chemical energies, and about 3 orders of magnitude greater than the nuclear potential energy that can be liberated, today, using nuclear fission (about per fission reaction or ), and about 2 orders of magnitude greater than the best possible results expected from fusion (about for the proton–proton chain). The reaction of of antimatter with of matter would produce (180 petajoules) of energy (by the mass–energy equivalence formula, ), or the rough equivalent of 43 megatons of TNT – slightly less than the yield of the 27,000 kg Tsar Bomba, the largest thermonuclear weapon ever detonated.\n\nNot all of that energy can be utilized by any realistic propulsion technology because of the nature of the annihilation products. While electron–positron reactions result in gamma ray photons, these are difficult to direct and use for thrust. In reactions between protons and antiprotons, their energy is converted largely into relativistic neutral and charged pions. The neutral pions decay almost immediately (with a lifetime of 85 attoseconds) into high-energy photons, but the charged pions decay more slowly (with a lifetime of 26 nanoseconds) and can be deflected magnetically to produce thrust.\n\nCharged pions ultimately decay into a combination of neutrinos (carrying about 22% of the energy of the charged pions) and unstable charged muons (carrying about 78% of the charged pion energy), with the muons then decaying into a combination of electrons, positrons and neutrinos (cf. muon decay; the neutrinos from this decay carry about 2/3 of the energy of the muons, meaning that from the original charged pions, the total fraction of their energy converted to neutrinos by one route or another would be about ).\n\nAntimatter has been considered as a trigger mechanism for nuclear weapons. A major obstacle is the difficulty of producing antimatter in large enough quantities, and there is no evidence that it will ever be feasible. However, the U.S. Air Force funded studies of the physics of antimatter in the Cold War, and began considering its possible use in weapons, not just as a trigger, but as the explosive itself.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "75095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75095", "title": "Asian brown cloud", "text": "Asian brown cloud\n\nThe Indian Ocean brown cloud or Asian brown cloud is a layer of air pollution that recurrently covers parts of South Asia, namely the northern Indian Ocean, India, and Pakistan. Viewed from satellite photos, the cloud appears as a giant brown stain hanging in the air over much of South Asia and the Indian Ocean every year between January and March, possibly also during earlier and later months. The term was coined in reports from the UNEP Indian Ocean Experiment (INDOEX).\n\nThe term \"atmospheric brown cloud\" is used for a more generic context not specific to the Asian region.\n\nThe Asian brown cloud is created by a range of airborne particles and pollutants from combustion (e.g., woodfires, cars, and factories), biomass burning and industrial processes with incomplete burning. The cloud is associated with the winter monsoon (November/December to April) during which there is no rain to wash pollutants from the air.\n\nThis pollution layer was observed during the Indian Ocean Experiment (INDOEX) intensive field observation in 1999 and described in the UNEP impact assessment study published 2002. Scientists in India claimed that the Asian Brown cloud is not something specific to Asia. \nSubsequently, when the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) organized a follow-up international project, the subject of study was renamed \"the Atmospheric Brown Cloud\" with focus on Asia.\n\nThe cloud was also reported by NASA in 2004 and 2007.\n\nAlthough aerosol particles are generally associated with a global cooling effect, recent studies have shown that they can actually have a warming effect in certain regions such as the Himalayas.\n\nOne major impact is on health. A 2002 study indicated nearly two million people die each year, in Asia alone, from conditions related to the brown cloud.\n\nA second assessment study was published in 2008. It highlighted regional concerns regarding:\n\nA 2011 study found that pollution is making Arabian Sea cyclones more intense as the atmospheric brown clouds has been producing weakening wind patterns which prevent wind shear patterns that historically have prohibited cyclones in the Arabian Sea from becoming major storms. This phenomenon was found responsible for the formation of stronger storms in 2007 and 2010 that were the first recorded storms to enter the Gulf of Oman.\n\nThe 2008 report also addressed the global concern of warming and concluded that the brown clouds have masked 20 to 80 percent of greenhouse gas forcing in the past century. The report suggested that air pollution regulations can have large amplifying effects on global warming.\n\nAnother major impact is on the polar ice caps. Black carbon (soot) in the Asian Brown Cloud may be reflecting sunlight and dimming Earth below but it is warming other places by absorbing incoming radiation and warming the atmosphere and whatever it touches. Black carbon is three times more effective than carbon dioxide—the most common greenhouse gas—at melting polar ice and snow. Black carbon in snow causes about three times the temperature change as carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. On snow—even at concentrations below five parts per billion–dark carbon triggers melting, and may be responsible for as much as 94 percent of Arctic warming.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23769768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23769768", "title": "Boko Haram", "text": "Boko Haram\n\nThe Islamic State in West Africa or Islamic State’s West Africa Province (abbreviated as ISWA or ISWAP), formerly known as Jamā'at Ahl as-Sunnah lid-Da'wah wa'l-Jihād (, \"Group of the People of Sunnah for Preaching and Jihad\") and commonly known as Boko Haram until March 2015, is a jihadist militant organization based in northeastern Nigeria, also active in Chad, Niger and northern Cameroon.\n\nFounded by Mohammed Yusuf in 2002, the group has been led by Abubakar Shekau since 2009. When Boko Haram first formed, their actions were nonviolent. Their main goal was to “purify Islam in northern Nigeria.\" From March 2015 to August 2016, the group was aligned with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. Since the current insurgency started in 2009, Boko Haram has killed tens of thousands and displaced 2.3 million from their homes and was ranked as the world's deadliest terror group by the Global Terrorism Index in 2015.\n\nAfter its founding in 2002, Boko Haram's increasing radicalisation led to a violent uprising in July 2009 in which its leader was summarily executed. Its unexpected resurgence, following a mass prison break in September 2010, was accompanied by increasingly sophisticated attacks, initially against soft targets, but progressing in 2011 to include suicide bombings of police buildings and the United Nations office in Abuja. The government's establishment of a state of emergency at the beginning of 2012, extended in the following year to cover the entire northeast of Nigeria, led to an increase in both security force abuses and militant attacks.\n\nOf the 2.3 million people displaced by the conflict since May 2013, at least 250,000 have left Nigeria and fled into Cameroon, Chad or Niger. Boko Haram killed over 6,600 in 2014. The group have carried out mass abductions including the kidnapping of 276 schoolgirls from Chibok in April 2014. Corruption in the security services and human rights abuses committed by them have hampered efforts to counter the unrest.\n\nIn mid-2014, the militants gained control of swathes of territory in and around their home state of Borno, estimated at in January 2015, but did not capture the state capital, Maiduguri, where the group was originally based. On 7 March 2015, Boko Haram's leader Abubakar Shekau pledged allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, rebranding as Islamic State in West Africa. In September 2015, the Director of Information at the Defence Headquarters of Nigeria announced that all Boko Haram camps had been destroyed.\n\nThe group's name has always been \"Jamā'atu Ahli is-Sunnah lid-Da'wati wal-Jihād\" (), meaning \"Group of the People of Sunnah for Dawa and Jihad\". It was briefly known as \"Wilayat Garb Ifrqiya\", meaning \"West African Province\", between March 2015 and August 2016 while it was a part of the Islamic State.\n\nThe name \"Boko Haram\" is usually translated as \"Western education is forbidden\". Haram is from the Arabic (\"ḥarām\", \"forbidden\"); and the Hausa word \"boko\" (the first vowel is long, the second pronounced in a low tone), meaning \"fake\", which is used to refer to secular Western education. Boko Haram has also been translated as \"Western influence is a sin\" and \"Westernization is sacrilege\". Until the death of its founder Mohammed Yusuf, the group was also reportedly known as \"Yusifiyya\". Northern Nigerians have commonly dismissed Western education as \"ilimin boko\" (\"fake education\") and secular schools as \"makaranta boko\".\n\nBoko Haram was founded upon the principles of the Khawaarij advocating Sharia law. It developed into a Jihadist group in 2009. The movement is diffuse, and fighters associated with it do not follow the Salafi doctrine. Their beliefs tend to be centered on strict adherence to Wahhibism, which is an extremely strict form of Islam that sees many other forms of Islam as idolatrous. The group has denounced the members of the Sufi, the Shiite and the Izala sects as infidels. Boko Haram seeks the establishment of an Islamic state in Nigeria. It opposes the Westernization of Nigerian society and the concentration of the wealth of the country among members of a small political elite, mainly in the Christian south of the country. Nigeria is Africa's biggest economy, but 60% of its population of 173 million (as of 2013) live on less than $1 a day. The sharia law imposed by local authorities, beginning with Zamfara in January 2000 and covering 12 northern states by late 2002, may have promoted links between Boko Haram and political leaders, but was considered by the group to have been corrupted.\n\nAccording to Borno Sufi Imam Sheik Fatahi, Yusuf was trained by Kano Salafi Izala Sheik Ja'afar Mahmud Adamu, who called him the \"leader of young people\"; the two split some time in 2002–2004. They both preached in Maiduguri's Indimi Mosque, which was attended by the deputy governor of Borno. Many of the group were reportedly inspired by Mohammed Marwa, known as Maitatsine (\"He who curses others\"), a self-proclaimed prophet (\"annabi\", a Hausa word usually used only to describe the founder of Islam) born in Northern Cameroon who condemned the reading of books other than the Quran. In a 2009 BBC interview, Yusuf, described by analysts as being well-educated, reaffirmed his opposition to Western education. He rejected the theory of evolution, said that rain is not \"an evaporation caused by the sun\", and that the Earth is not a sphere.\n\nBefore colonization and subsequent annexation into the British Empire in 1900 as Colonial Nigeria, the Bornu Empire ruled the territory where Boko Haram is currently active. It was a sovereign sultanate run according to the principles of the Constitution of Medina, with a majority Kanuri Muslim population. In 1903, both the Borno Emirate and Sokoto Caliphate came under the control of the British. Christian missionaries at this time spread the Christian message in the region and had many converts. British occupation ended with Nigerian independence in 1960.\n\nExcept for a brief period of civilian rule between 1979 and 1983, Nigeria was governed by a series of military dictatorships from 1966 until the advent of democracy in 1999. Ethnic militancy is thought to have been one of the causes of the 1967–1970 civil war; religious violence reached a new height in 1980 in Kano, the largest city in the north of the country, where the Muslim fundamentalist sect Yan Tatsine (\"followers of Maitatsine\") instigated riots that resulted in four or five thousand deaths. In the ensuing military crackdown, Maitatsine was killed, fuelling a backlash of increased violence that spread across other northern cities over the next twenty years. Social inequality and poverty contributed both to the Maitatsine and Boko Haram uprisings.\n\nIn the decades since the end of British occupation, politicians and academics from the mainly Islamic North have expressed their fundamental opposition to Western education. Political ethno-religious interest groups, whose membership includes influential political, military and religious leaders, have thrived in Nigeria, though they were largely suppressed under military rule. Their paramilitary wings, formed since the country's return to civilian rule, have been implicated in much of the sectarian violence in the years following. The Arewa People's Congress, the militia wing of the Arewa Consultative Forum, the main political group representing the interests of northern Nigeria, is a well-funded group with military and intelligence expertise, and is considered capable of engaging in military action, including covert bombing.\n\nMohammed Yusuf founded the sect that became known as Boko Haram in 2002 in Maiduguri, the capital of the north-eastern state of Borno. He established a religious complex and school that attracted poor Muslim families from across Nigeria and neighbouring countries. The center had the political goal of creating an Islamic state, and became a recruiting ground for jihadis. By denouncing the police and state corruption, Yusuf attracted followers from unemployed youth. It has been speculated that the reason Yusuf founded Boko Haram appears to be that he saw an opportunity to exploit public outrage at government corruption by linking it to Western influence in governance. He is reported to have used the existing infrastructure in Borno of the Izala Society (Jama'at Izalatil Bidiawa Iqamatus Sunnah), a popular conservative Islamic sect, to recruit members, before breaking away to form his own faction. The Izala were originally welcomed into government, along with people sympathetic to Yusuf. Boko Haram conducted its operations more or less peacefully during the first seven years of its existence, withdrawing from society into remote north-eastern areas. The government repeatedly ignored warnings about the increasingly militant character of the organization. The Council of Ulama advised the government and the Nigerian Television Authority not to broadcast Yusuf's preaching, but their warnings were ignored. Yusuf's arrest elevated him to hero status. Borno's Deputy Governor Alhaji Dibal has reportedly claimed that al-Qaeda had ties with Boko Haram, but broke them when they decided that Yusuf was an unreliable person. Stephen Davis, a former Anglican clergyman who has negotiated with Boko Haram many times blames local Nigerian politicians who support local bandits like Boko Haram in order for them to make life difficult for their political opponents. In particular Davis has blamed the former governor of Borno State Ali Modu Sheriff, who initially supported Boko Haram, but no longer needed them after the 2007 elections and stopped funding them. Sheriff denies the accusations.\n\nBoko Haram's attacks consist of suicide bombers as well as conventional armed assaults on both civilian and military targets. Following the 2014 kidnapping, a majority of Boko Haram's suicide bombers are female; some are as young as seven years old. Boko Haram jihadists rely on stealth, blending into local communities or hiding in the vast countryside. Critics accuse the Nigerian military of not properly equipping its soldiers to fight Boko Haram.\n\nIn 2008, police began an investigation into the group code-named Operation Flush. On July 26, security forces arrested nine Boko Haram members and confiscated weapons and bomb-making equipment. Either this or a clash with police during a funeral procession led to revenge attacks on police and widespread rioting. A joint military task force operation was launched in response and by 30 July more than 700 people had been killed, mostly Boko Haram members, and police stations, prisons, government offices, schools and churches had been destroyed. Yusuf was arrested, and died in custody \"while trying to escape\". As had been the case decades earlier in the wake of the 1980 Kano riots, the killing of the leader of an extremist group would have unintended consequences. He was succeeded by Abubakar Shekau, formerly his second-in-command. A classified cable apparently sent from the U.S. Embassy in Abuja in November 2009, has been published on WikiLeaks:\nAccording to the leaked document, there were reports that Yusuf's deputy had survived, and audio tapes were believed to be in circulation in which Boko Haram threatened future attacks. Nevertheless, many observers did not anticipate imminent bloodshed. Security in Borno was downgraded. Borno government official Alhaji Boguma believed that the state deserved praise from the international community for ending the conflict in such a short time, and that the \"wave of fundamentalism\" had been \"crushed\".\n\nIn September 2010, having regrouped under their new leader, Boko Haram broke 105 of its members out of prison in Bauchi along with over 600 other prisoners and went on to launch attacks in several areas of northern Nigeria.\n\nUnder Shekau's leadership, the group continuously improved its operational capabilities. After launching a string of IED attacks against soft targets and its first vehicle-borne IED attack in June 2011, killing 6 at the Abuja police headquarters, in August Boko Haram bombed the United Nations (UN) headquarters in Abuja, the first time they had struck a Western target. A spokesman claiming responsibility for the attack, in which 11 UN staff members died as well as 12 others, with more than 100 injured, warned of future planned attacks on U.S. and Nigerian government interests. Speaking soon after the U.S. embassy's announcement of the arrival in the country of the FBI, he went on to announce Boko Haram's terms for negotiation, i.e. the release of all imprisoned members. The increased sophistication of the group led observers to speculate that Boko Haram was affiliated with Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), which was active in Niger.\n\nBoko Haram has maintained a steady rate of attacks since 2011, striking a wide range of targets, multiple times per week. They have attacked politicians, religious leaders, security forces and civilian targets. The tactic of suicide bombing, used in the two attacks in the capital on the police and UN headquarters, was new to Nigeria. In Africa as a whole, it had only been used by al-Shabaab in Somalia and to a lesser extent AQIM.\n\nWithin hours of Goodluck Jonathan's presidential inauguration in May 2011, Boko Haram carried out a series of bombings in Bauchi, Zaria and Abuja. The most successful of these was the attack on the army barracks in Bauchi. A spokesman for the group told BBC Hausa that the attack had been carried out, as a test of loyalty, by serving members of the military hoping to join the group. This charge was later refuted by an army spokesman who claimed: \"This is not a banana republic\". However, on 8 January 2012 the president would announce that Boko Haram had in reality infiltrated both the army and the police, as well as the executive, parliamentary and legislative branches of government. Boko Haram's spokesman also claimed responsibility for the killing outside his home in Maiduguri of the politician Abba Anas Ibn Umar Garbai, the younger brother of the Shehu of Borno, who was the second most prominent Muslim in the country after the Sultan of Sokoto. He added: \"We are doing what we are doing to fight injustice, if they stop their satanic ways of doing things and the injustices, we would stop what we are doing\".\n\nThis was one of several political and religious assassinations Boko Haram carried out that year, with the presumed intention of correcting injustices in the group's home state of Borno. Meanwhile, the trail of massacres continued relentlessly, apparently leading the country towards civil war. By the end of 2011, these conflicting strategies led observers to question the group's cohesion; comparisons were drawn with the diverse motivations of the militant factions of the oil-rich Niger Delta. Adding to the confusion, in November the State Security Service announced that four criminal syndicates were operating under the name Boko Haram.\n\nThe common theme throughout the north-east was the targeting of police, who were regularly massacred at work or in drive-by shootings at their homes, either in revenge for the killing of Yusuf, or as representatives of the state apparatus, or for no particular reason. Five officers were arrested for Yusuf's murder, which had no noticeable effect on the level of unrest. Opportunities for criminal enterprise flourished. Hundreds of police were dead and more than 60 police stations had been attacked by mid-2012. The government's response to this self-reinforcing trend towards insecurity was to invest heavily in security equipment, spending $5.5 billion, 20 percent of their overall budget, on bomb detection units, communications and transport; and $470 million on a Chinese CCTV system for Abuja, which has failed in its purpose of detecting or deterring acts of terror.\n\nThe election defeat of former military dictator Muhammadu Buhari increased ethno-religious political tensions, as it broke the terms of a tacit agreement that the presidency would alternate after two terms of office between candidates from the Christian south and Muslim north of the country. Sectarian riots engulfed the twelve northern states of the country during the three days following the election, leaving more than 800 dead and 65,000 displaced. The subsequent campaign of violence by Boko Haram culminated in a string of bombings across the country on Christmas Day. In the outskirts of Abuja, 37 died in a church that had its roof blown off. One resident commented, \"Cars were in flames and bodies littered everywhere\", a phrase commonly repeated in international press reports about the bombings. Similar Christmas events had been reported in previous years. Jonathan declared a state of emergency on New Year's Eve in local government areas of Jos, Borno, Yobe and Niger and closed the international border in the north-east.\n\nBoko Haram carried out 115 attacks in 2011, killing 550. The state of emergency would usher in an intensification of violence. The opening three weeks of 2012 accounted for more than half of the death total of the preceding year. Two days after the state of emergency was declared, Boko Haram released an ultimatum to southern Nigerians living in the north, giving them three days to leave. Three days later they began a series of mostly small-scale attacks on Christians and members of the Igbo ethnic group, causing hundreds to flee. In Kano, on 20 January, they carried out by far their most deadly action yet, an assault on police buildings, killing 190. One of the victims was a TV reporter. The attacks included a combined use of car bombs, suicide bombers and IEDs, supported by uniformed gunmen.\n\nAmnesty International and Human Rights Watch published reports in 2012 that were widely quoted by government agencies and the media, based on research conducted over the course of the conflict in the worst affected areas of the country. The NGOs were critical of both security forces and Boko Haram. HRW stated \"Boko Haram should immediately cease all attacks, and threats of attacks, that cause loss of life, injury, and destruction of property. The Nigerian government should take urgent measures to address the human rights abuses that have helped fuel the violent militancy\". According to the 2012 US Department of State \"Country Report on Human Rights Practices\":\n\nNigeria's Borno State, where Boko Haram is based, adjoins Lake Chad as do Niger, Cameroon and the country of Chad. The conflict and refugees spilled over the national borders to involve all four countries.\n\nIn 2013, Boko Haram increased operations in Northern Cameroon, and were involved in skirmishes along the borders of Chad and Niger. They were linked to a number of kidnappings, often reportedly in association with the splinter group Ansaru, drawing towards them a higher level of international attention.\n\nThe U.S. Bureau of Counterterrorism provides the following summary of Boko Haram's 2013 foreign operations:\nBoko Haram has often managed to evade the Nigerian army by retreating into the hills around the border with Cameroon, whose army is apparently unwilling to confront them. Nigeria, Chad and Niger had formed a Multinational Joint Task Force in 1998. In February 2012, Cameroon signed an agreement with Nigeria to establish a Joint Trans-Border Security Committee, which was inaugurated in November 2013, when Cameroon announced plans to conduct \"coordinated but separate\" border patrols in 2014. It convened again in July 2014 to further improve cooperation between the two countries.\n\nIn late 2013, Amnesty International received 'credible' information that over 950 inmates had died in custody, mostly in detention centres in Maiduguri and Damaturu, within the first half of the year. Official state corruption was also documented in December 2013 by the UK Home Office:\nThe state of emergency was extended in May 2013 to cover the whole of the three north-eastern states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe, raising tensions in the region. In the 12 months following the announcement, 250,000 fled the three states, followed by a further 180,000 between May and August 2014. A further 210,000 fled from bordering states, bringing the total displaced by the conflict to 650,000. Many thousands left the country. An August 2014 Amnesty International video showed Army and allied militia executing people, including by slitting their throats, and dumping their corpses in mass graves. According to Human Rights Watch, more than 130 villages and towns were attacked or controlled by the group.\n\nIn April 2014, Boko Haram kidnapped 276 schoolgirls from Chibok. Shekau announced his intention of selling them into slavery. More than 50 escaped. The incident brought Boko Haram extended global media attention, much of it focused on the pronouncements of the U.S. Former First Lady Michelle Obama. Faced with condemnation for his perceived incompetence, as well as allegations from Amnesty International of state collusion, President Jonathan responded by hiring a Washington PR firm.\n\nParents of the missing girls and those who had escaped were kept waiting until July to meet with the president, which caused them concern. In October, the government announced the girls' imminent release, but the information proved unreliable. The announcement to the media of a peace agreement and the imminent release of all the missing girls was followed days later by a video message in which Shekau stated that no such meeting had taken place and that the girls had been \"married off\". The announcement to the media, unaccompanied by any evidence of the reality of the agreement, was thought by analysts to have been a political ploy by the president to raise his popularity before his confirmation of his candidacy in the 2015 general election. Earlier in the year, the girls' plight had featured on \"#BringBackOurGirls\" political campaign posters in the streets of the capital, which the president denied knowledge of and soon took down after news of criticism surfaced. These posters, which were interpreted, to the dismay of campaigners for the girls' recapture, as being designed to benefit from the fame of the kidnapping, had also been part of Jonathan's \"pre-presidential campaign\". In September, \"#BringBackGoodluck2015\" campaign posters again drew criticism. The official announcement of the president's candidacy was made before cheering crowds in Abuja on 11 November.\n\nIn February 2016, the organisations International Alert and UNICEF published a study revealing that girls and women released from Boko Haram captivity often face rejection upon returning to their communities and families, in part due to a culture of stigma around sexual violence.\n\nIn 2014, Boko Haram continued to increase its presence in northern Cameroon. On May 16, ten Chinese workers were abducted in a raid on a construction company camp in Waza, near the Nigerian border. Vehicles and explosives were also taken in the raid, and one Cameroon soldier was killed. Cameroon's antiterrorist Rapid Intervention Battalion attempted to intervene but were vastly outnumbered. In July, the deputy prime minister's home village was attacked by around 200 militants; his wife was kidnapped, along with the Sultan of Kolofata and his family. At least 15 people, including soldiers and police, were killed in the raid. The deputy prime minister's wife was subsequently released in October, along with 26 others including the ten Chinese construction workers who had been captured in May; authorities made no comment about any ransom, which the Cameroon government had previously claimed it never pays. In a separate attack, nine bus passengers and a soldier were shot dead and the son of a local chief was kidnapped. Hundreds of local youths are suspected to have been recruited. In August, the remote Nigerian border town of Gwoza was overrun and held by the group. In response to the increased militant activity, the Cameroonian president sacked two senior military officers and sent his army chief with 1000 reinforcements to the northern border region.\n\nBetween May and July 2014, 8,000 Nigerian refugees arrived in the country, up to 25 percent suffering from acute malnutrition. Cameroon, which ranked 150 out of 186 on the 2012 UNDP HDI, hosted as of August 2014 107,000 refugees fleeing unrest in the CAR, a number that was expected to increase to 180,000 by the end of the year. A further 11,000 Nigerian refugees crossed the border into Cameroon and Chad during August.\n\nThe attack on Gwoza signalled a change in strategy for Boko Haram, as the group continued to capture territory in north-eastern and eastern areas of Borno, as well as in Adamawa and Yobe. Attacks across the border were repelled by the Cameroon military. The territorial gains were officially denied by the Nigerian military. In a video obtained by the news agency AFP on 24 August 2014, Shekau announced that Gwoza was now part of an Islamic caliphate. The town of Bama, from the state capital Maiduguri, was reported to have been captured at the beginning of September, resulting in thousands of residents fleeing to Maiduguri, even as residents there were themselves attempting to flee. The military continued to deny Boko Haram's territorial gains, which were, however, confirmed by local vigilantes who had managed to escape. The militants were reportedly killing men and teenage boys in the town of over 250,000 inhabitants. Soldiers refused orders to advance on the occupied town; hundreds fled across the border into Cameroon, but were promptly repatriated. Fifty-four deserters were later sentenced to death by firing squad.\n\nOn 17 October, the Chief of the Defence Staff announced that a ceasefire had been brokered, stating: \"I have accordingly directed the service chiefs to ensure immediate compliance with this development in the field\". Despite a lack of confirmation from the militants, the announcement was publicised in newspaper headlines worldwide. However, within 48 hours the same publications were reporting that Boko Haram attacks had continued unabated. It was reported that factionalisation would make such a deal particularly difficult to achieve.\nOn 29 October, Mubi, a town of 200,000 in Adamawa, fell to the militants, further undermining confidence in the peace talks. Thousands fled south to Adamawa's capital city, Yola. Amid media speculation that the ceasefire announcement had been part of President Jonathan's re-election campaign, a video statement released by Boko Haram through the normal communication channels via AFP on 31 October stated that no negotiations had in fact taken place. Mubi was said to have been recaptured by the army on 13 November. On the same day, Boko Haram seized Chibok, but two days later the army recaptured the largely deserted town. As of 16 November it was estimated that more than twenty towns and villages had been taken control of by the militants. On 28 November, 120 died in an attack at the central mosque in Kano during Friday prayers. There were 27 Boko Haram attacks during the month of November, killing at least 786.\n\nOn 3 December, it was reported that several towns in North Adamawa had been recovered by the Nigerian military with the help of local vigilantes and Bala Nggilari, the governor of Adamawa state, said that the military were aiming to recruit 4,000 vigilantes. On 13 December, Boko Haram attacked the village of Gumsuri in Borno, killing over 30 and kidnapping over 100 women and children.\n\nIn the second half of December, the focus of activity switched to the Far North Region of Cameroon, beginning on the morning of 17 December when an army convoy was attacked with an IED and ambushed by hundreds of militants near the border town of Amchide, north of the state capital Maroua. One soldier was confirmed dead, and an estimated 116 militants were killed in the attack, which was followed by another attack overnight with unknown casualties. On 22 December, the Rapid Intervention Battalion followed up with an attack on a Boko Haram training camp near Guirdivig, arresting 45 militants and seizing 84 children aged 7–15 who were undergoing training, according to a statement from Cameroon's Ministry of Defense. The militants fled in pick-up trucks carrying an unknown number of their dead; no information on army casualties was released. On 27–28 December, five villages were simultaneously attacked, and for the first time the Cameroon military launched air attacks when Boko Haram briefly occupied an army camp. Casualty figures were not released. According to Information Minister Issa Tchiroma: \n\nOn 3 January 2015, Boko Haram attacked Baga, seizing it and the multinational joint task force military base. As the militants advanced the army fled. Some residents managed to escape to Chad. Although the death toll of the massacre was earlier estimated by western media to be upwards of 2000, the Defence Ministry dismissed these claims as \"speculation and conjecture\", estimating the figure to be closer to 150. On 25 January, the militants advanced to Monguno, capturing the town and a nearby military base. Their advance on Maiduguri and Konduga, 40 km to the southeast, was repelled. After retaking Monguno, the army expelled the militants from Baga on 21 February.\n\nThe Baga massacre was one of the Nigerian army's biggest defeats in terms of loss of equipment and civilian casualties. Several officers were court-martialed. In October 2015, General Enitan Ransome-Kuti was dismissed from the army and sentenced to six months imprisonment. It was determined that he had failed in his duty to launch a counter-attack after retreating from the town.\n\nStarting in late January 2015, a coalition of military forces from Nigeria, Chad, Cameroon, and Niger began a campaign against Boko Haram. On 4 February, the Chad Army killed over 200 Boko Haram militants. Soon afterwards, Boko Haram launched an attack on the Cameroonian town of Fotokol, killing 81 civilians, 13 Chadian soldiers and 6 Cameroonian soldiers.\n\nOn 7 March 2015, Boko Haram's leader Abubakar Shekau pledged allegiance to ISIL via an audio message posted on the organisation's Twitter account. Nigerian army spokesperson Sami Usman Kukasheka said the pledge was a sign of weakness and that Shekau was like a \"drowning man\". On 12 March 2015, ISIL's spokesman Abu Mohammad al-Adnani released an audiotape in which he welcomed the pledge of allegiance, and described it as an expansion of the group's caliphate to West Africa.\n\nOn 24 March 2015, residents of Damasak, Nigeria said that Boko Haram had taken more than 400 women and children from the town as they fled from coalition forces. On March 27, the Nigerian army captured Gwoza, which was believed to be the location of Boko Haram headquarters. On election day 28 March 2015, Boko Haram extremists killed 41 people, including a legislator, to discourage hundreds from voting.\n\nIn March 2015, Boko Haram lost control of the Northern Nigerian towns of Bama and Gwoza to the Nigerian army. The Nigerian authorities said that they had taken back 11 of the 14 districts previously controlled by Boko Haram. In April, four Boko Haram camps in the Sambisa Forest were overrun by the Nigerian military who freed nearly 300 females. Boko Haram forces were believed to have retreated to the Mandara Mountains, along the Nigeria-Cameroon border.\n\nA report by the Catholic diocese of Maiduguri estimated that as of May 2015 over 5,000 Nigerian Catholics had been killed by Boko Haram. The diocese also reported 7,000 widows and 10,000 orphans among its laity. Furthermore, Boko Haram militants had taken over several parish centres within the diocese.\n\nBoko Haram militants attacked multiple mosques between 1 and 2 July. Forty-eight men and boys were killed on the 1st at one mosque in Kukawa. Seventeen were wounded in the attack. Ninety-seven others, mostly men, were killed in numerous mosques on the 2nd with a number of women and young girls killed in their homes. An unknown number were wounded.\n\nOn 15 June 2015, two suicide bombings of police sites in N'Djamena, the capital and largest city of Chad, killed 38 people. Boko Haram later claimed responsibility for these attacks. On 11 July, a male suicide bomber disguised in a woman's burqa detonated his explosives belt in the main market of N'Djamena, next to the main mosque, killing 15 people and injuring 80. Several days after the bombing, Boko Haram claimed responsibility via Twitter, signing as \"Islamic State, West Africa province\".\n\nThe March 2015 general election was won by Buhari, who had vowed to remove inefficiency and corruption in the military. On 9 September 2015, the Director of Information at the Defence Headquarters, Colonel Rabe Abubakar announced that all known Boko Haram camps and cells had been destroyed, and that the group was so weakened that they could no longer hold any territory:\nBuhari later reiterated in December 2015 that Boko Haram was \"technically defeated\" and declared in December 2016 that the group had been entirely ousted from its last stronghold of Sambisa Forest.\n\nOn 20 September, a series of bombings occurred in Maiduguri and Monguno and the attacks followed an announcement by Shekau refuting the army's claims of defeat. A military spokesman stated that the event showed the \"high level of desperation\" of Boko Haram. The Arewa Consultative Forum released a statement condemning the bombings and commending the military offensive:\n\nOn 21 October in Nganzai, Borno, according to a civilian vigilante, fleeing militants shot at four cars, killing the passengers, and burnt and looted the nearby village. On 23 October, a suicide bombing occurred in a pre dawn attack at a mosque in Maiduguri. The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) put the death toll at 6 while hospital sources reported 19 deaths and a vigilante claimed to have counted 28 corpses and two suicide bombers. On the following day, four female suicide bombers claimed one victim after they were intercepted by the JTF in Maiduguri, according to a NEMA spokesman.\n\nOn 27 October, a military operation freed 192 children and 138 women being held captive in two camps in the Sambisa forest and 30 militants were killed, according to a social media statement from the Defense HQ. None of the captives were those taken in Chibok in April 2014.\n\nOn 25 December, gunmen set fire to the village of Kimba, killing at least 14, according to vigilantes. On 27 December, gunmen armed with RPGs battled with troops for two hours in Aldawari village in the outskirts of Maiduguri, according to NEMA. On the following morning, a bombing at a nearby mosque killed around 20, according to NEMA.\n\nTwo bombings on 2 October that killed 18 and wounded 41, one in Nyanya in Nasarawa and the other in Kuje, FCT were also claimed by Boko Haram.\n\nOn 1 October, villagers in Kirchinga, Adamawa complained of a lack of security personnel after 5 residents had their throats slit during an unchallenged early morning attack. The village borders Cameroon and the Sambisa forest. On 18 October the village of Dar, Adamawe was attacked. Maina Ularamu, a former Chairman of Madagali Local Government Area, stated: \"A large number of gunmen invaded the village, forcing residents to flee to a nearby bush. Two female suicide bombers disguised as fleeing villagers detonated explosives in the bush where many people were hiding, killing 12 persons\". On 20 October, there were reports of a military ambush in Madagali, assisted by vigilantes, in which over 30 militants were killed. On 21 October, according to vigilante reports a joint operation in Madagali and Gwoza killed 150 militants and rescued 36 captives. On 23 October, a suicide bomb at a crowded mosque killed 27 in Yola, Adamawa's capital. On 17 November, an explosion at a food market in Yola killed 32, in the first Nigerian bombing since the 23 October attacks in Maiduguri and Yola. On the morning of 28 December, two female suicide bombers detonated their explosives at a crowded market in Madagali. According to a local resident, at least 28 were killed.\n\nOn 7 October in Damaturu, Yobe at least 15 people were killed by 3 suicide bombers. In Goniri, Yobe 7 soldiers and over 100 militants were killed, and a large arms cache was found, according to an army spokesman, who said that the recent apparent rise in suicide bombings was an indication of the success of military operations.\n\nBoko Haram claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on a procession of Shi'ite Muslims killing at least 21, on 30 November near the village of Dakozoye. A week earlier two bombers had killed at least 14 in Kano city.\n\nOn 12 January, Boko Haram attacked a Cameroon military base in Kolofata. Government forces report killing 143 militants, while one Cameroon soldier was killed. On 18 January, Boko Haram raided two Tourou Cameroon area villages, torching houses, killing some residents and kidnapping between 60 and 80 people including an estimated 50 young children between the ages of 10 and 15.\n\nOn 11 October, in the far north region of Cameroon two female suicide bombers killed nine people in the town of Mora. On 18 October, 10 militants were killed when they attacked a Cameroon military anti-terrorist division convoy close to the border, after a military vehicle became stuck in mud. One army commander later died of his wounds. On 12 October, the first 90 of a proposed deployment of 300 US troops arrived in the region to assist with training, reconnaissance and airborne intelligence using Predator drones. On 16 October, more than six security vehicles were transferred to the Cameroon military. An AFRICOM spokesman said that increased cooperation had led them \"to study the viability of ISR flights from a temporary location in Cameroon\". The deployment is \"totally separate and distinct\" from operations in Chad and Niger, where 250 and 85 personnel, respectively, are conducting missions including ISR and training.\n\nOn 23 October, Boko Haram fighters were driven out of Kerawa, a village of 50,000 in Kolofata, a commune in the far north region. They had briefly occupied the village until the arrival of security forces. Reports of civilian casualties ranged from eight to eleven. An army spokesman claimed the militants suffered heavy casualties. The village's military base had previously been targeted by suicide bombers on 3 September, when 30 were killed.\n\nOn 9 November, two female suicide bombers killed three Nigerians during a security check in a truck full of Nigerian refugees. On 21 November, a suicide attack in a suburb of Fotokol town killed four. An anonymous military official said: \"The first kamikaze detonated his bomb in the house of the traditional chief of Leymarie. Five people died including the bomber. Several minutes later, three female bombers exploded their bombs close to the initial site but they didn't kill anyone else because they acted too quickly\".\n\nOn 28 November, two suicide bombers killed six near the military base in Dabanga, and in an attack in Gouzoudou five people were killed, according to a military spokesman. On 1 December, two suicide bombers killed three, and a third bomber was killed before detonating explosives. On 2 December, Cameroon's Defense Minister claimed that, at the end of November, 100 Boko Haram members had been killed and 900 hostages freed, and that a large stockpile of arms and munitions, and black-and-white ISIL flags had been seized. Information Minister Issa Tchiroma Bakari said that \"[t]he people that were freed are just villagers. The [Chibok] schoolgirls who are missing are not amongst the group\".\n\nOn 6 October, the Chadian army reported an attack in the border region of Lake Chad. 11 soldiers were killed and 14 wounded in the pre dawn cross-border infiltration, and 17 militants were also killed, according to an army spokesman. On 10 October, 5 suicide bombers killed 33 in the market in Baga Sola, a camp for Nigerian refugees. On 1 November, two dawn attacks on army posts occurred. Eleven militants and two soldiers were killed at Kaika, and in an attempted suicide bombing at Bougouma, \"Two members of Boko Haram were neutralised and a third blew himself up, wounding 11 civilians\", according to a government statement. A state of emergency was imposed in the western Lake Chad region on 9 November, initially for 12 days, but extended by Chad's national assembly on 18 November to four months.\n\nOn 5 December 2015, three female suicide bombers killed about 30 at a crowded market on the island of Koulfoua in Lake Chad.\n\nOn 25 September, at least 15 civilians were massacred and stores were looted in a cross-border raid on a Niger village, according to anonymous military sources. On 2 October two soldiers died and four were wounded in a Boko Haram attack on a village near the Nigerian border in Niger's Diffa province. The militants also looted stores, according to Niger army officers. On 4 October, according to an aid worker, a policeman and five civilians were killed by 4 suicide bombers near the Nigerian border. On 6 October, three suspected Boko Haram militants accidentally blew themselves up while transporting explosives to Bosso town in Diffa. On 21 October near Diffa town two soldiers were killed by explosives while intercepting an attack. Diffa region hosts over 150,000 Nigerian refugees. It is under a state of emergency. On 14 October a curfew and movement restrictions were imposed. At least 57 attacks occurred there from February to October 2015. More than 1,100 Boko Haram suspects were arrested in Niger during 2015.\n\nOn 11 November, two Niger military officials described an attack on a village in Bosso district in which five civilians and 20 militants were killed. A senior government official later denied that the attack had occurred, according to Reuters. On 26 November, Boko Haram launched a cross-border night raid on Wogom village in Diffa province. A government spokesman, Justice Minister Marou Amadou stated: \"Eighteen villagers were killed, including the chief imam for the village whose throat was slit by his own nephew\".\nOn 13 March 2018 the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons (IDP), Cecilia Jimenez-Damary said \"Since the first attacks in Niger by Boko Haram in 2015, the Diffa region, in the south-eastern part of the country, has been confronted with a continuing security crisis which has uprooted more than 129,000 internally from their homes, in addition to the arrival of 108,000 refugees from Nigeria, and has triggered a humanitarian crisis. He said that IDPs in Niger are posing huge challenges to the country and \"require a strong and comprehensive response\". He also said situation in the regions bordering Mali has led to the displacement of some 1,540 persons.\n\nOn 30 January 2016, at least 86 people were killed and at least 62 more injured in an attack by Boko Haram militants on Dalori Village which is located 4 kilometers from Maiduguri, Nigeria. The Nigerian Army was unable to fight the militants until reinforcements arrived, causing Boko Haram to retreat.\n\nJohns Hopkins University figures indicated that Boko Haram killed 244 people in the second quarter of 2016 – the lowest quarterly figure for five years.\n\nIn early August 2016, ISIL announced that it had appointed Abu-Musab al-Barnawi as the new leader of the group. In a video released a few days later, Shekau refused to accept al-Barnawi's appointment as leader and vowed to fight him while stating that he was still loyal to ISIL's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.\n\nThe group has since split into pro-Barnawi and pro-Shekau factions, with reports of armed clashes breaking out between them. Shekau has released videos since the split in which he refers to his group by its previous name of \"Jamatu Ahlis Sunna Lidawatti wal Jihad\".\n\nOn 23 August 2016, the Nigerian Army announced it conducted an overnight air-operation that was 'very successful' in killing the leadership of Boko Haram. Among those presumed killed was Abubakar Shekau, he died in an aerial bombardment in Taye village. The Nigerian Army claims that the disputed Boko Haram leader died from injuries to his shoulders while he was performing prayer.\n\nOn 28 August, the Nigerian president Muhammadu Buhari, retracted the military's statement and claimed that the Boko Haram leader was 'wounded' but not killed in the air-strike.\n\nOn 31 August 2016, Major General Lucky Irabor stated that the militants now only controlled a few villages and towns near Lake Chad and in Sambisa Forest. He further stated that the military expected recapturing the final strongholds of the group within weeks.\n\nUNICEF reported an increase in child suicide bombers with 27 incidents occurring in the first three months of 2017 in Nigeria, Niger, Cameroon and Chad, compared to 30 in the entire previous year, 56 in 2015 and 4 in 2014. Kidnapped children who escape from Boko Haram are often held in custody or ostracized by their community or family. Patrick Rose, a UNICEF regional coordinator, stated: \"They are held in military barracks, separated from their parents, without medical follow-up, without psychological support, without education, under conditions and for durations that are unknown\". According to the NGO: \"Society's rejection of these children, and their sense of isolation and desperation, could be making them more vulnerable to promises of martyrdom through acceptance of dangerous and deadly missions\".\nIn addition to child suicide bombers and despite having been routed from key areas and significantly downgraded in their capacities, throughout 2016 and into 2017, Boko Haram in Nigeria continued to wage attacks against Nigerian security forces, the community-based Civilian Joint Task Forces (CJTF), and regular citizens, using improvised explosives devices (IEDs) and other crude weaponry. These were often deployed with suicide bombers; an increasing number of whom were women and girls recruited to attack markets, transportation depots, mosques, and IDP camps.\n\nBoko Haram kidnapped 110 schoolgirls from the Government Technical Girls College in Dapchi, Yobe, on 19 February 2018. Boko Haram reportedly released all but one of the girls by 21 March.\n\nOn 2 April, a Boko Haram attack on the outskirts of Maiduguri resulted in the death of 18 people and another 84 wounded. This attack came just days after the government of Nigeria claimed there was a ceasefire with Boko Haram. The attack happened in the villages of Bale Shuwa and Bale Kura, close to both Maiduguri and the city's military camp.\n\nOn 18 May, the Nigerian Army killed 15 Boko Haram insurgents and rescued 49 persons in separate encounters between Boko Haram and Nigerian troops throughout the Southern Lake Chad Basin. The Nigerian troops killed 11 of the insurgents during a battle in Gamoran Village, while the remaining insurgents were killed trying to escape from the Army's efforts in Northern Borno. The Nigerian troops rescued 4 men, 33 women, and 16 children from the insurgent's hideouts in the area.\n\nBoko Haram was founded by Mohammed Yusuf who led the group from 2002 until his death in 2009. After his death, his deputy Abubakar Shekau took control of the group and has led it until the present day.\n\nAlthough Boko Haram is organized in a hierarchical structure with one overall leader, the group also operates as a clandestine cell system using a network structure, with units having between 300 and 500 fighters each. Estimates of the total number of fighters range between 500 and 9,000.\n\nBoko Haram is said to have raised substantial sums from kidnap for ransom. In 2013, Boko Haram kidnapped a family of seven French tourists on vacation in Cameroon and two months later released the hostages along with 16 others in exchange for a ransom of $3.15 million.\n\nAs well as extortion from local residents, Boko Haram has claimed to extort money from local state governments. A spokesman of Boko Haram claimed that Kano state governor Ibrahim Shekarau and Bauchi state governor Isa Yuguda had paid them monthly.\n\nIt has long been alleged that Boko Haram had a relationship with al-Qaeda. In 2011, letters from Boko Haram were reportedly found in bin Laden's compound.\n\nThree weeks after the 2009 Boko Haram uprising began, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb expressed sympathy for Boko Haram. Speaking by phone to reporters in November 2012, group spokesman Abu Qaqa said: \"We are together with al-Qaeda, they are promoting the cause of Islam, just as we are doing. Therefore they help us in our struggle and we help them, too.\" The 2012 Reuters special report details how fighters have trained with al-Qaeda affiliates in small groups over at least 6 years.\n\nAccording to the UN Security Council listing of Boko Haram under the al-Qaeda sanctions regime in May 2014, the group \"has maintained a relationship with AQIM for training and material support purposes\", and \"gained valuable knowledge on the construction of improvised explosive devices from AQIM\". The UN found that a \"number of Boko Haram members fought alongside al Qaeda affiliated groups in Mali in 2012 and 2013 before returning to Nigeria with terrorist expertise\". AQIM is one of al-Qaeda's regional branches, whose leader, Abu Musab Abdel Wadoud, has sworn an oath of allegiance to al-Qaeda's senior leadership.\n\nDespite historic ties, al-Qaeda central has never officially accepted Boko Haram as an affiliate. The issues between AQ and Boko Haram related to the extremism of Abubakar Shekau with respect to him declaring the entire general population of Muslims in Nigeria to be non-Muslims. Shekau argues that due to the widespread apostasy of Muslims through voting in elections that it is legitimate to kill Muslim civilians. Al-Qaeda takes the view that the general population should be viewed as Muslim and thus killing civilians is not acceptable.\n\nIn July 2014, Shekau released a 16-minute video where he voiced support for ISIL's head Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, al-Qaeda's head Ayman al-Zawahiri and Afghan Taliban leader Mullah Omar. In March 2015, Shekau formally pledged allegiance to ISIL, which was accepted by the group's spokesman several days later. The group was nominally renamed 'Wilayat Garb Ifriqiyah' or the Islamic State's 'West African province' and was led by Shekau.\n\nIn August 2016, ISIL attempted to remove Shekau from his leadership role and replace him with Abu Musab al-Barnawi. The reason behind this was that Shekau had disobeyed Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's order to cease targeting Muslim civilians. Shekau rejected the move, leading to a split between the groups.\n\nThe Nigerian military is, in the words of a former British military attaché speaking in 2014, \"a shadow of what it's reputed to have once been. It's fallen apart\". They are short of basic equipment, including radios and armoured vehicles. Morale is said to be low. Senior officers are alleged to be skimming military procurement budget funds that are intended to pay for the standard issue equipment of soldiers. The country's defense budget accounts for more than a third of the security budget of $5.8 billion, but only 10 percent is allocated to capital spending. In a 2014 United States Department of Defense assessment, funds are being \"skimmed off the top\", troops are \"showing signs of real fear\" and are \"afraid to even engage\".\n\nIn the summer of 2013, the Nigerian military shut down mobile phone coverage in the three north-eastern states to disrupt the group's communication and ability to detonate IEDs. Accounts from military insiders and data of Boko Haram incidences before, during and after the mobile phone blackout suggest that the shut down was 'successful' from a military- tactical point of view. However it angered citizens in the region (owing to negative social and economic consequences of the mobile shutdown) and engendered negative opinions toward the state and new emergency policies. While citizens and organizations developed various coping and circumventing strategies, Boko Haram evolved from an open network model of insurgency to a closed centralized system, shifting the center of its operations to the Sambisa Forest. This fundamentally changed the dynamics of the conflict.\n\nIn July 2014, Nigeria was estimated to have had the highest number of terrorist killings in the world over the past year, 3477, killed in 146 attacks. The governor of Borno, Kashim Shettima, of the opposition ANPP, said in February 2014: \n\nIn March 2015, it was reported that Nigeria had employed hundreds of mercenaries from South Africa and the former Soviet Union to assist in making gains against Boko Haram before the March 28 election.\n\nIn October 2015, General David M. Rodriguez, head of U.S. Africa Command, reported that Boko Haram has lost territory, directly contradicting statements made by Boko Haram. U.S. efforts to train and share intelligence with regional military forces is credited with helping to push back against Boko Haram, but officials warn that the group remains a grave threat.\n\nIn April 2018, the President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, approved a release of $1bn for the procurement of security equipment to fight insurgency and revolt in the country. This announcement came days after an attack by Boko Haram that left 18 dead in northern Nigeria.\n\nIn 2012, the U.S. Department of State had an internal debate on whether to place Boko Haram on its list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations. The Bureau of Counterterrorism leaned towards designation while the Bureau of African Affairs urged caution. Officials from the Justice Department, the FBI, the CIA, and a number of members of Congress urged the State Department to designate Boko Haram as an FTO. The Nigerian government voiced its opposition to an FTO designation, citing concerns that it would raise Boko Haram's stature and have implications for humanitarian aid in the region where Boko Haram operated. Twenty academic experts on Nigeria signed a letter to the State Department urging it not to designate Boko Haram as an FTO, saying that it would hinder NGO efforts in the region and might legitimize the Nigerian Army's human rights abuses in its efforts to fight Boko Haram.\n\nThe U.S. State Department designated Boko Haram and its offshoot Ansaru as terrorist organizations in November 2013, citing Boko Haram's links with AQIM and its responsibility for \"thousands of deaths in northeast and central Nigeria over the last several years including targeted killings of civilians\". The State Department also cited Ansaru's 2013 kidnapping and execution of seven international construction workers. In the statement it was noted, however, \"These designations are an important and appropriate step, but only one tool in what must be a comprehensive approach by the Nigerian government to counter these groups through a combination of law enforcement, political, and development efforts.\" The State Department had resisted earlier calls to designate Boko Haram as a terrorist group after the 2011 Abuja United Nations bombing. The U.S. government does not believe Boko Haram is currently (2014) affiliated with al Qaeda Central, despite regular periodic pledges of support and solidarity from its leadership for al-Qaeda, but is particularly concerned about ties between Boko Haram and Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) (including \"likely sharing funds, training, and explosive materials\").\n\nEfforts to cooperate in freeing the Chibok schoolgirls had faltered, largely due to mutual distrust; the infiltration of the military by Boko Haram meant that U.S. officials were wary of sharing raw intelligence data, and the Nigerian military had failed to supply information that might have aided U.S. drone flights in locating the kidnapped girls. The Nigerian government claims that Boko Haram is \"the West Africa branch of the world-wide Al-Qaida movement\" with connections to al-Shabaab in Somalia and AQIM in Mali. The Nigerian government denies having committed human rights abuses in the conflict, and therefore oppose U.S. restrictions on arms sales, which they see as being based on the U.S. mis-application of the Leahy Law due to concerns over human rights in Nigeria. The U.S. had supplied the Nigerian army with trucks and equipment but had blocked the sale of Cobra helicopters. In November 2014 the U.S. State department again refused to supply Cobras, citing concerns over the Nigerian military's ability to maintain and use them without endangering civilians.\n\nOn 1 December 2014, the U.S. embassy in Abuja announced that the U.S. had discontinued training a Nigerian battalion at the request of the Nigerian government. A spokesman for the U.S. state department said: \"We regret premature termination of this training, as it was to be the first in a larger planned project that would have trained additional units with the goal of helping the Nigerian Army build capacity to counter Boko Haram. The U.S. government will continue other aspects of the extensive bilateral security relationship, as well as all other assistance programs, with Nigeria. The U.S. government is committed to the long tradition of partnership with Nigeria and will continue to engage future requests for cooperation and training\".\n\nOn 24 September 2015, the White House announced a military aid package for African allies fighting Boko Haram. The package included up to $45 million for training and other support for Benin, Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria. On 14 October, the White House released a statement, in accordance with the War Powers Resolution, announcing the deployment of 300 troops to Cameroon to conduct airborne ISR: \"These forces are equipped with weapons for the purpose of providing their own force protection and security, and they will remain in Cameroon until their support is no longer needed.\"\n\nAfter a series of meetings over many months, Cameroon's foreign minister announced on 30 November 2014 that a coalition force to fight terrorism, including Boko Haram, would soon be operational. The force would include 3,500 soldiers from Benin, Chad, Cameroon, Niger and Nigeria. Discussions between the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) about a broader based military force have been scheduled.\n\nFrance and the United Kingdom, in coordination with the United States, have sent trainers and material assistance to Nigeria to assist in the fight against Boko Haram. France planned to use 3,000 troops in the region for counter-terrorism operations. Israel and Canada also pledged support.\n\nIn 2017, the United Kingdom enforced an emergency assistance package worth $259 million. The United Kingdom has also aided Nigeria through military support and counter-terrorism training. The British government has provided provided training to 28,000 Nigerian military troops to aid against Boko Haram. More than 40 British troops have also been sent long term to Nigeria.\n\nIn May 2014, China offered Nigeria assistance that included satellite data, and possibly military equipment.\n\nIn October 2015, Colombia sent a delegation of security experts to assist the Nigerian authorities and share expertise on security and counter terrorism. In January 2016, a delegation led by Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai also visited Colombia to exchange information in regards to the war against Boko Haram.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "264765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264765", "title": "Bombay Natural History Society", "text": "Bombay Natural History Society\n\nThe Bombay Natural History Society, founded on 15 September 1883, is one of the largest non-governmental organisations in India engaged in conservation and biodiversity research. It supports many research efforts through grants and publishes the \"Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society\". Many prominent naturalists, including the ornithologists Sálim Ali and S. Dillon Ripley, have been associated with it. The society is commonly known by its initials, BNHS. BNHS is the partner of BirdLife International in India. It has been designated as a 'Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation' by the Department of Science and Technology. It's headquarter is in Mumbai and has one regional centre at Wetland Research and Training Centre, near Chilika Lake, Odisha.\n\nOn 15 September 1883 eight men interested in natural history met at Bombay in the then Victoria and Albert Museum (now Bhau Daji Lad Museum) and:\n\nAccording to E. H. Aitken (the first honorary secretary, September 1883-March 1886), Dr G. A. Maconochie was the \"\" (Latin for \"source and origin\") of the society. The other founders were Dr D. MacDonald, Col. C. Swinhoe, Mr J. C. Anderson, Mr J. Johnston, Dr Atmaram Pandurang and Dr Sakharam Arjun. Mr H. M. Phipson (second honorary secretary, 1886–1906) was a part of the founding group. He lent a part of his wine shop at 18 Forbes Street to the BNHS as an office.\n\nIn 1911, R. C. Wroughton a BNHS member and forest officer organised a survey of mammals making use of the members spread through the Indian subcontinent to provide specimens. This was perhaps the first collaborative natural history study in the world. It resulted in a collection of 50,000 specimens in 12 years. Several new species were discovered, 47 publications were published, and the understanding of biogeographic boundaries was improved.\n\nIn the early years, the \"Journal of the BNHS\" reviewed contemporary literature from other parts of the world. The description of ant-bird interactions in German by Erwin Stresemann was reviewed in a 1935 issue leading to the introduction of the term \"anting\" into English.\n\nToday the BNHS is headquartered in the specially constructed 'Hornbill House' in southern Mumbai. It sponsors studies in Indian wildlife and conservation, and publishes a four-monthly journal, \"Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society\" (\"JBNHS\"), as well as a quarterly magazine, \"Hornbill\".\n\nThe BNHS logo is the great hornbill, inspired by a great hornbill named William, who lived on the premises of the Society from 1894 until 1920, during the honorary secretaryships of H. M. Phipson until 1906 and W. S. Millard from 1906 to 1920. The logo was created in 1933, the silver-jubilee year of the Society's founding.\n\nAccording to H. M. Phipson, William was born in May 1894 and presented to the Society three months later by H. Ingle of Karwar. He reached his full length ( by the end of his third year. His diet consisted of fruit, (like plantains and wild figs) and also of live mice, scorpions, and plain raw meat, which he ate with relish. He apparently did not drink water, nor use it for bathing. William was known for catching tennis balls thrown at him from a distance of some 30 feet with his beak.\n\nIn his obituary of W. S. Millard, Sir Norman Kinnear made the following remarks about William: \n\nIT consultancy firm Accenture and the Bombay Natural History Society have developed Internet of Birds platform that identifies bird species found in India using Artificial Intelligence technology, including machine learning and computer vision, from digital photos that are uploaded by the public. Each time a picture is contributed to the system by public, it teaches itself, increasing accuracy in the recognition of bird species.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54723517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54723517", "title": "Bose–Einstein condensation of polaritons", "text": "Bose–Einstein condensation of polaritons\n\nBose–Einstein condensation of polaritons is a growing field in semiconductor optics research, which exhibits spontaneous coherence similar to a laser, but through a different mechanism. A continuous transition from polariton condensation to lasing can be made similar to that of the crossover from a Bose–Einstein condensate to a BCS state in the context of Fermi gases. Polariton condensation is sometimes called “lasing without inversion”.\n\nPolaritons are bosonic quasiparticles which can be thought of as dressed photons. In an optical cavity, photons have an effective mass, and when the optical resonance in a cavity is brought near in energy to an electronic resonance (typically an exciton) in a medium inside the cavity, the photons become strongly interacting, and repel each other. They therefore act like atoms which can approach equilibrium due to their collisions with each other, and can undergo Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) at high density or low temperature. The Bose condensate of polaritons then emits coherent light like a laser. Because the mechanism for the onset of coherence is the interactions between the polaritons, and not the optical gain that comes from inversion, the threshold density can be quite low.\n\nThe theory of polariton BEC was first proposed by Atac Imamoglu and coauthors including Yoshihisa Yamamoto. These authors claimed observation of this effect in a subsequent paper, but this was eventually shown to be standard lasing. In later work in collaboration with the research group of , the structure was redesigned to include several quantum wells inside the cavity to prevent saturation of the exciton resonance, and in 2002 evidence for nonequilibrium condensation was reported which included photon-photon correlations consistent with spontaneous coherence. Later experimental groups have used essentially the same design. In 2006, the group of Benoit Deveaud and coauthors reported the first widely accepted claim of nonequilibrium Bose–Einstein condensation of polaritons based on measurement of the momentum distribution of the polaritons. Although the system was not in equilibrium, a clear peak in the ground state of the system was seen, a canonical prediction of BEC. Both of these experiments created a polariton gas in an uncontrolled free expansion. In 2007, the experimental group of David Snoke demonstrated nonequilibrium Bose–Einstein condensation of polaritons in a trap, similar to the way atoms are confined in traps for Bose–Einstein condensation experiments. The observation of polariton condensation in a trap was significant because the polaritons were displaced from the laser excitation spot, so that the effect could not be attributed to a simple nonlinear effect of the laser light. Jaqueline Bloch and coworkers observed polariton condensation in 2009, after which many other experimentalists reproduced the effect (for reviews see the bibliography). Evidence for polariton superfluidity was reported in by Alberto Amo and coworkers, based on the suppressed scattering of the polaritons during their motion. This effect has been seen more recently at room temperature, which is the first evidence of room temperature superfluidity, albeit in a highly nonequilibrium system.\n\nThe first clear demonstration of Bose–Einstein condensation of polaritons in equilibrium was reported by a collaboration of David Snoke, Keith Nelson, and coworkers, using high quality structures fabricated by Loren Pfeiffer and Ken West at Princeton. Prior to this result, polariton condensates were always observed out of equilibrium. All of the above studies used optical pumping to create the condensate. Electrical injection, which enables a polariton laser which could be a practical device, was shown in 2013 by two groups.\n\nPolariton condensates are an example, and the most well studied example, of Bose-Einstein condensation of quasiparticles. Because most of the experimental work on polariton condensates used structures with very short polariton lifetime, a large body of theory has addressed the properties of nonequilibrium condensation and superfluidity. In particular, Jonathan Keeling and Iacopo Carusotto and C. Ciuti have shown that although a condensate with dissipation is not a “true” superfluid, it still has a critical velocity for onset of superfluid effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "11723653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11723653", "title": "Christopher Flavin", "text": "Christopher Flavin\n\nChristopher Flavin is the former president of the Worldwatch Institute, an independent research organization focused on natural resource and environmental issues, based in Washington, DC. He is also a founding member of the Board of Directors of the Business Council for Sustainable Energy and is a member of the National Academy of Sciences Board on Energy and Environmental Systems, the Climate Institute, and the Environmental and Energy Study Institute. His research and writing focus is international energy and climate policy.\n\nFlavin has participated in several notable international conferences, including the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and the Climate Change Conference in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997. He has testified before national and state legislatures and meets frequently with government and international leaders.\n\nFlavin is a native of Monterey, California and a cum laude graduate of Williams College, where he studied economics, biology, and environmental studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1654495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1654495", "title": "Claytor Lake State Park", "text": "Claytor Lake State Park\n\nClaytor Lake State Park is a state park in Pulaski County, Virginia. The park is located on Claytor Lake, a , reservoir on the New River formed by Claytor Dam, which is used to generate hydroelectric power by the Appalachian Power Company. The reservoir is named for W. Graham Claytor (1886–1971) of nearby Roanoke, a former vice president of Appalachian Power who supervised construction of the dam and creation of the lake.\n\nClaytor Lake State Park has hiking trails, a freshwater swimming beach, boating and fishing opportunities, a full-service marina, visitor center, concession, lakeside cabins, camping with full hookups, interpretive programs and six rental shelters accommodating large groups.\n\nThe Haven B. Howe House is used as a Nature Exhibit Center that focuses on the lake’s wildlife habitat. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "49503293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49503293", "title": "Deities and personifications of seasons", "text": "Deities and personifications of seasons\n\nThere are a number of deities associated with seasons and personifications of seasons in various mythologies, traditions, and fiction.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn ancient Greek mythology Anemoi were the gods of wind, three of which were associated with seasons:\n"}
{"id": "3938438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3938438", "title": "EL84", "text": "EL84\n\nThe EL84 is a thermionic valve of the power pentode type. It is used in the power output stages of audio amplifiers, most commonly now in guitar amplifiers, but originally in radios. The EL84 is smaller and more sensitive than the octal 6V6 that was widely used around the world until the 1960s. An interchangeable North American type is the \"6BQ5\" (the RETMA tube designation name for the EL84).\n\nThe EL84 was developed to eliminate the need for a driver tube in radios, so it has rather more gain than is usual in a power pentode. Eliminating a preamplifier triode in radios made them cheaper. Manufacturers were quick to adopt it in general use, and they are found in many old European valve radios and other audio equipment. A single EL84 was used in low-cost equipment, and a push–pull pair for lower distortion and higher power.\n\nIn common with all 'E' prefix tubes, using the Mullard–Philips tube designation, it has a heater voltage of 6.3V. It is can produce 17 watts output in Class AB1 in push–pull configuration. Many guitar amplifiers routinely run EL84 tubes in excess of 400VDC, with the Traynor Guitarmate reportedly putting out 25w RMS with 2 EL84's in a push–pull configuration and a B+ between 400-420VDC.\n\nDeveloped by Philips in 1953 for use in the British Mullard 5-10 amplifier, the EL84 came to prominence when used in Watkins (and later the Vox) amplifiers preferred by many British Invasion bands of the 1960s.\n\nThe 1959 \"Miniwatt\" Technical Data book from Philips lists the 6BQ5 as the R.E.T.M.A. (American) name for the EL84 in its \"Type Number Cross Reference\", and hence an \"exact\" substitute. American and Japanese manufacturers might label their versions of the EL84 as \"EL84/6BQ5\" or \"6BQ5/EL84\" or simply \"6BQ5\" Other manufacturers followed with their versions, such as the N709 from General Electric Co. Ltd. of England and the 6P15 from UK brand Mazda, that were designed to be \"drop-in\" substitutes. The CV2975 is the military designation (Common Valve) for EL84. \n\nOther equivalent tubes are the 7189 and 7189A, an extended-ratings version of the tube for industrial applications, E84L (7320) long life, professional version with more than 10000 hours expected lifetime and the directly equivalent 6P14P (Cyrillic: 6П14П) produced in the USSR by the Reflektor plant. a slightly modified version of the 6P14P was manufactured in Russia for Sovtek. An extended-ratings version of the 6P14P is also available - 6P14P-EV (Cyrillic: 6П14П-ЕВ) and is known among US guitar players as \"EL84M\" or the \"Russian military EL84\". While not necessarily a true \"military version\" of the tube (in fact it is more comparable to the 7189), 6P14P-EVs are known for their low noise and durability. Large NOS (New Old Stock) supplies of the tube are available.\nThe 6GK6 has nearly equivalent operating characteristics with a different pinout.\n\nAlso see 6P1P.\n\nAlthough RCA and Sylvania produced the 8BQ5 and 10BQ5 as exact equivalents to the 6BQ5/EL84 other than heater voltage/current, most variants of the EL84 (e.g. the 15CW5/PL84) for series-heater applications such as television receivers (where it was most economical to directly-rectify the mains) made slight changes to the geometry of the original EL84 design to optimise performance for the slightly lower power supply voltages. When a 6.3V heater version of the PL84 was needed, the type number EL86 was assigned; the EL86 and PL84 are therefore very similar to, but \"not exactly identical\" to, the original EL84.\n\nNote: Specifications given for the EL84, PL84 and UL84 are from Philips; RCA and Sylvania list slightly higher voltage ratings for Va and Vkf and lower for Vg2 for the xCW5 series - the 6CW5/EL86, 8CW5/XL86, 10CW5/LL86, 15CW5/PL84, and 30CW5/HL84. \n\n"}
{"id": "12139198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12139198", "title": "Equilibrium fractionation", "text": "Equilibrium fractionation\n\nEquilibrium isotope fractionation is the partial separation of isotopes between two or more substances in chemical equilibrium. Equilibrium fractionation is strongest at low temperatures, and (along with kinetic isotope effects) forms the basis of the most widely used isotopic paleothermometers (or climate proxies): D/H and O/O records from ice cores, and O/O records from calcium carbonate. It is thus important for the construction of geologic temperature records. Isotopic fractionations attributed to equilibrium processes have been observed in many elements, from hydrogen (D/H) to uranium (U/U). In general, the light elements (especially hydrogen, boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur) are most susceptible to fractionation, and their isotopes tend to be separated to a greater degree than heavier elements.\n\nMost equilibrium fractionations are thought to result from the reduction in vibrational energy (especially zero-point energy) when a more massive isotope is substituted for a less massive one. This leads to higher concentrations of the massive isotopes in substances where the vibrational energy is most sensitive to isotope substitution, i.e., those with the highest bond force constants.\n\nIn a reaction involving the exchange of two isotopes, X and X, of element \"X\" in molecules AX and BX,\n\neach reactant molecule is identical to a product except for the distribution of isotopes (i.e., they are isotopologues). The amount of isotopic fractionation in an exchange reaction can be expressed as a fractionation factor:\n\nformula_2 indicates that the isotopes are distributed evenly between AX and BX, with no isotopic fractionation. formula_3 indicates that X is concentrated in substance AX, and formula_4 indicates X is concentrated in substance BX. is closely related to the equilibrium constant (K):\n\nwhere formula_6 is the product of the rotational symmetry numbers of the products (right side of the exchange reaction), formula_7 is the product of the rotational symmetry numbers of the reactants (left side of the exchange reaction), and is the number of atoms exchanged.\n\nAn example of equilibrium isotope fractionation is the concentration of heavy isotopes of oxygen in liquid water, relative to water vapor,\n\nAt 20 °C, the equilibrium fractionation factor for this reaction is\n\nEquilibrium fractionation is a type of mass-dependent isotope fractionation, while mass-independent fractionation is usually assumed to be a non-equilibrium process.\n\nFor non-equilibrium reactions, isotopic effects are better described by the GEBIK and GEBIF equations for transient kinetic isotope fractionation, which generalize non-steady isotopic effects in any chemical and biochemical reactions.\n\nWhen water vapor condenses (an equilibrium fractionation), the heavier water isotopes (HO and HO) become enriched in the liquid phase while the lighter isotopes (HO and HO) tend toward the vapor phase.\n\n\n\nChacko T., Cole D.R., and Horita J. (2001) Equilibrium oxygen, hydrogen and carbon isotope fractionation factors applicable to geologic systems. Reviews in Mineralogy and Geochemistry, v. 43, p. 1-81.\n\nHorita J. and Wesolowski D.J. (1994) Liquid-vapor fractionation of oxygen and hydrogen isotopes of water from the freezing to the critical temperature. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, v. 58, p. 3425-2437.\n\nAlphaDelta: Stable Isotope fractionation calculator - http://www2.ggl.ulaval.ca/cgi-bin/isotope/generisotope.cgi\n"}
{"id": "33183470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33183470", "title": "European Movement for Efficient Energy", "text": "European Movement for Efficient Energy\n\nThe European Movement for Efficient Energy (EME²) is a stakeholder platform that seek to promote efficiency in the energy sector as a means to achieve overall energy and resource efficiency in Europe. This would mean producing and delivering more energy for final consumption from less primary energy and other natural resources, notably water and land. This is EME² refers to as \"efficient energy”. The current primary focus or their campaign is on the supply of more resource-efficient electricity and combined heat and power.\n\nThe global energy system has enormous potential to make energy savings. GE Energy estimates that from a total primary energy input for electricity production of 49,555 TWh, only 15,623 TWh of electricity was delivered to customers worldwide. At the European Union level, the energy sector consumes 30% of primary energy consumption and an analysis by Delta Energy and Environment of the France, Poland and the UK shows that increases supply-side efficiency has the same overall energy saving potential as demand-side efficiency. In France, Poland and the UK, Delta estimates that supply-side options can contribute up to 32% of the overall goal of a 20% carbon emission reduction and up to 26% of an overall goal to reduce primary energy consumption by 20%.\n\nEME² argues that ensuring supply-side energy efficiency requires system-wide cohesion and investment, from the supply and conversion of primary energy through to the transmission and distribution of power and heat. The movement places no emphasis on a specific energy source and argues that Europe will continue to rely on a broad mix of energy sources and innovative technologies over the coming decades. Such a mix would evolve and vary from region to region and country to country for both political and practical reasons. EME² define's its purpose as to \"help drive understanding and uptake of policy strategies and technologies for maximising supply-side, system-wide efficiencies whatever the mix\".\n\nThe concept of efficient energy goes beyond just reducing greenhouse gases; it is about the efficient use of our resources, our fuel, water and land. It is about developing a more resource efficient energy production and delivery system in Europe.\n\nEU policy-makers have given significant attention has been given to energy efficiency amongst energy consumers. Policies addressing to this 'end-use' energy efficiency including encouraging the renovation and increased insulation of buildings, promoting energy labels for electrical appliances and phasing out high-energy light bulbs. EME² argues more attention should now be paid to supply-side energy efficiency.\n\nThe European Commission has begun to address these issues. In its Energy Efficiency Plan (March 2011), the European Commission called on EU member states to expand the scope of their energy efficiency policies beyond the demand side to the supply side, i.e. energy production and delivery. Specifically the plan calls for the increaseduse of energy production from co-generation and combined heat and power systems to help Europe achieve its energy goals. The Commission is further looking to strengthen the basis for national grid regulators consider energy efficiency issues in their decisions and in monitoring the management and operation of gas and electricity grids and markets.\n\nIn September 2011, the European Commission also released a Roadmap for a Resource Efficient Europe. That roadmap described the economic benefits of using resources more efficiently, by creating major economic opportunities for companies and workers, improving productivity, reducing costs and enhancing competitiveness. A key and potentially most controversial plank of the Commission proposal is to shift taxation from labour to resource use. It seeks to address market prices that do not reflect the true costs of using resources and their environmental impacts, by removing Environmentally Harmful Subsidies (EHS). The roadmap also suggests turning waste into a key resource with the aim of decreasing the EU's dependency on imports of raw materials, lower impacts on the environment and open up new markets. The roadmap sets a 2020 target for all key resources – ecosystem services, biodiversity, minerals and metals, water, air, land and soil and marine resources – and lists a series of actions and initiatives the EU and its member states should embark on.\n\nEME² is funded by participants contributions with initial funding from GE Energy. EME² has appointed Burson-Marsteller Brussels to act as the secretariat of the movement. Its members include:\n"}
{"id": "445633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445633", "title": "Forests of Poland", "text": "Forests of Poland\n\nPolish forests cover about 30% of Poland's territory, and are mostly owned by the state. Western and northern parts of Poland as well as the Carpathian Mountains in the extreme south, are much more forested than eastern and central provinces. The most forested administrative districts of the country are: Lubusz Voivodeship (48,9%), Subcarpathian Voivodeship (37,2%), and Pomeranian Voivodeship (36,1%). The least forested are: Łódź Voivodeship (21%), Masovian Voivodeship (22,6%), and Lublin Voivodeship (22,8%).\n\nAt the end of the 18th century, forests covered around 40% of Poland. However, due to the 19th century economic exploitation during the partitions of Poland, as well as, the Nazi German and Soviet occupations between 1939–1945 with trees shipped to battle fronts across Europe, deforestation and slash and burn conditions of war shrank Polish forests to only 21% of total area of the country (as of 1946). Furthermore, rich deciduous trees were replaced with fast growing coniferous trees of lesser value meant for commerce, such as pine. After World War II, the government of Poland initiated the National Plan of Afforestation. By 1970, forests covered 29% of the country. As of 2009 – 29,1% of Poland's territory was forested, amounting to 9,088,000 hectares. It is estimated that by 2050, the total area of forested land should increase to 33%.\n\nAs much as 81,8% of the Polish forests are state-owned, majority (77,8%) by Polish State Forests (Lasy Panstwowe), 2% constitute Polish National Forests protected zones, 2% are owned by other governmental entities (such as local self-government or the Agricultural Property Agency) and 18,2% belong to private owners. High percentage of Polish forests owned by the state is the result of nationalization of forests that occurred in the aftermath of World War II when Poland became a communist state (see People's Republic of Poland) under the Soviet sphere of influence.\n\nForest in Poland occupy the poorest soil. Coniferous type accounts for 54.5%, whereas broadleaved type accounts for 45.5% (out of that, alder and riparian forests account for 3.8%). A number of forested zones are now protected by the Polish government and, in many cases, they have become tourist destinations. Over the years, many of the largest Polish forests have been reduced in size, and that reflected on the structure of forest inhabitation.\n\nUp until the end of the 18th Century, beginning in what is known as the Middle Ages, forests were considered places for travelers and ordinary folk to stay away from, as they were home to bandits and were believed to be inhabited by evil spirits. Law and order did not apply to forests for many centuries, except for self-policing observed and administered by their inhabitants. However, the forests did contain numerous woodsmen and their families who made the best of their remote environment. These woodsmen lived on what the forest could produce, collecting pitch resin for sale – important as method of illuminating city streets – logging construction lumber, collecting lime, bees wax, honey, hops, mushrooms and whatever other saleable items could be harvested in the forest and sold in villages outside of it.\n\nFamilies of the woodsmen produced their own food through gardening and hunting, as well as their own clothing. In some cases, their sewing of intricate laces became well known outside the forest, resulting in additional family income. Because of their isolation from society in general, woodsmen and their families developed their own style of dress, music, sewing, dialect, celebrations, and the type of dwellings. The Masovia woodsmen for example, known as Kurpie people, who lived in the forested region known in Poland as the White Wilderness (Puszcza Biała) and the Green Wilderness, still proudly proclaim and celebrate their unique culture and customs.\n\nA\nB\nD\nK\nŁ\nN\nO\nP\nR\nS\nT\nU\nW\nZ\n↑ Encyklopedia Polski t.2 \n"}
{"id": "36750591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36750591", "title": "Galene (mythology)", "text": "Galene (mythology)\n\nGalene (Greek: Γαλήνη) in ancient Greek religion was a minor goddess personifying calm seas. Hesiod enumerates her as one of the Nereids, while Euripides mentions \"Galaneia\" as a daughter of Pontus. Callimachus refers to her as \"Galenaia\". A statue of Galene, next to that of Thalassa, was mentioned by Pausanias as an offering at the temple of Poseidon in Corinth.\n\nThe alternative name Galatea, which gained currency in the 18th century refers to same goddess.\n\n"}
{"id": "44710922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44710922", "title": "Google Maps pin", "text": "Google Maps pin\n\nThe Google Maps pin is the inverted-drop-shaped icon that marks locations in Google Maps. The pin is protected under a U.S. design patent as \"teardrop-shaped marker icon including a shadow\". Google has used the pin in various graphics, games, and promotional materials.\n\nThe pin, sometimes referred to as \"the marker\", has been widely co-opted by other companies, organizations, and individuals for their own marketing efforts, artwork, and activism. In both digital and physical representations, the pin is often used to symbolize mapping software and the technology industry as a whole.\n\nThe Google Maps pin has been called \"a product of pure function that has evolved into a cultural phenomenon\" and \"a solution that would take on a life of its own, recognizable enough to stick up for itself in the art and design projects of others\". \"Looking like a hot air balloon in flight, this marker has landed squarely in the middle of our visual culture\".\n\nIn 2014, the Museum of Modern Art acquired a physical representation of the Google Maps pin for its permanent collection.\n\nJens Eilstrup Rasmussen designed the Google Maps pin prior to the launch of Google Maps in 2005. He wanted the pin to accurately mark a point on a map without obscuring the location. The main body of the pin is circular at the top, but tapers into a point at the bottom, forming an inverted teardrop shape. A drop shadow extends from the point at the bottom, giving the pin a three-dimensional look.\n\nIn the original version of Google Maps, the pin was displayed with the letters \"A\" through \"J\" when there was more than one search results. In later versions, the pin was shown with a black dot inside to mark a single location. In 2011, Google released a minor redesign of the pin that changed the black outline of the pin to a dark red for a softer look.\n\nGoogle has used the pin in online and traditional print marketing campaigns for Google Maps. The pin is displayed as part of the icon for the Google Maps mobile application, on a stylized map along with an uppercase letter \"G\" for \"Google.\"\n\nThe pin has been used on promotional objects like beer glasses, stickers, and coffee cup sleeves in various marketing campaigns. Google has also designed and sold T-shirts that display a Google Maps pin along with the words \"I am here\".\n\nIn 2009, Google launched the Favorite Places marketing campaign. 100,000 local businesses received a store-window decal portraying the Google Maps pin on a map, with the words \"We're a Favorite Place on Google.\" The stickers included a QR code which could be scanned by customers to bring up the business' Place Page in order to leave an online review.\n\nCelebrities including Yo-Yo Ma, Diane von Furstenberg, Al Gore, and Tony Hawk, shared their favorite locations around the world, such as restaurants, bakeries, and design shops. At 30 of these locations, Google erected an 800-pound pin, each personalized with unique designs based on input from the celebrity who chose that location.\n\nIn 2013, Google commissioned New York-based graphic designer Matt Delbridge for the Hello World ad campaign. Many of the illustrations incorporated the Google Maps pin along with images associated with specific locations around the world.\n\nIn 2010, Google created online cards that used several pins to spell out \"Happy Holidays\". In 2011, Google doubled the Google Maps pin to create a heart for a Map Your Valentine holiday feature.\n\nIn 2011, Google partnered with Susan G. Komen for the Cure to create a campaign called Pink Pin in New York City. Businesses and consumers were asked to pin their locations on the Pink Pin website, share personal stories related to breast cancer awareness, and donate to the cause.\n\nIn 2014, Google launched \"Smarty Pins\", a browser-based geographical trivia game that features the Google Maps pin. Players receive clues about locations around the world, which they then identify by placing the Google Maps pin on a map. Players start the game with 1,000 points, and lose points equivalent to the number of miles they place their pins from the correct location. Bonus points can be gained by answering the trivia questions quickly.\n\nThe Google Maps API allows developers to create customized maps, for which they can create their own markers.\n\nAlthough the Google Maps pin is protected under a U.S. design patent, other organizations have used it as a component of their own logos.\n\nThe Labour Party of Malta used an image closely resembling the Google Maps pin as their logo in the 2014 European Parliament election campaign. A Google spokesperson contacted by The Times of Malta would not comment on whether the logo was a breach of Google's intellectual property rights, though a copyright lawyer interviewed for the article explained that the similarity could result in legal repercussions.\n\nIn 2010, Facebook filed a trademark application for a design including a marker similar to the Google Maps pin above a representation of a rectangular map, but later abandoned the application.\n\nWhen Metahaven, an Amsterdam-based studio for design and research, was charged with drafting concepts for Wikileaks' new visual identity, they considered integrating the Google Maps pin, inverted. This suggested a dripping leak, and the impossibility of pinpointing the source.\n\nIn San Francisco, demonstrators in San Francisco have carried signs shaped like the Google Maps pin and bearing the word \"evicted\" to protest the recent surge in tech-driven evictions in San Francisco.\n\nThe Google Maps pin has evolved beyond its original intended use to become quasi-iconic in popular culture. Rob Walker cites the pin as an example of dedigitization, \"something from the digital world crossing over to the physical\". The pin has been used in various mediums not just to pinpoint locations, but to represent abstracts like mapping technology or even the technology industry as a whole.\n\nBerlin-based conceptual artist Aram Bartholl is known for creating works that examine the relationship between the digital and physical world, using popular imagery from software and games. Beginning in 2006, Bartholl has created a public art installation called \"Map\". Bartholl installs a large physical representation of the Google Maps pin in the exact location that Google Maps identifies as the center of a city. Locations thus far have included Taipei, Berlin, Arles, and Tallinn. Each sculpture remains in place for about three months, usually coinciding with a local art festival or exhibit. The series was designed to raise viewers' awareness of the increasing overlap between the virtual and the physical, and to highlight mapping services' influence on perceptions of location. Bartholl's physical representations of the Google Maps pin urges viewers to reevaluate the information given by digitized maps, the meaning of the \"center\" of a city, the politicization of boundaries, and other issues related to maps and the digital versus the physical world.\n\nBefore the Royal College of Art's 150th-anniversary exhibition in 2007, student Robert Sollis e-mailed Google requesting a temporary Google Maps marker be placed over the college's temporary site in Kensington Gardens. Upon receiving only an auto-reply, Sollis created his own physical marker, which he hoped would appear in satellite images. Sollis constructed the Google Carpet of individual carpet tiles, each 185mm, which corresponds to one pixel of Google's satellite imagery.\n\nIn July 2013, as part of a public art event in Horsens, Denmark, the Icelandic-Danish design duo ÖRNDUVALD installed a mural called \"Pin\" at . The 9-square-meter piece, \"a giant and shimmering reinterpretation of the Google Maps pin\", was made from 10,078 circular discs mounted to plywood. Amanda Kooser of cnet wrote, \"if Liberace had been on the Google Maps design team, all the pins would look like this,\" while Jamie Condliffe stated in Gizmodo, \"The Google Maps pin is iconic: bold and simple, yet incredibly memorable. And emblazoned on the side of a Danish building in twinkling metallic form, it might just be the geekiest mural ever.\"\n\nIn June 2012, Taiwanese designer Shu-Chun Hsiao created \"Project Google Birdhouse\" by hanging pin-shaped birdhouses around Taipei. He stated, \"Google Map had created a remarkable landmark icon, showing the sites on its street views. To search for a landmark with online Google map, we can scroll to zoom from the satellite, soon we’ll be able to wander on streets, virtually. Birds, have the most real experience of google map. Birds can fly through the city, through streets. A birdhouse becomes their destination as google map does. The iconic symbol will become a navigating landmark for the flying birds.\" Jaime Derriger wrote, \"The icon that we have all come to know and love which graces our Google maps to let us know where we are, or where we need to go, has become ubiquitous. Designer Shu-Chun Hsiao realized this and created the Google Birdhouse Project, an ongoing project to give birds destinations of their own, just like Google maps does for humans\".\n"}
{"id": "25157128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25157128", "title": "Hornitos Formation", "text": "Hornitos Formation\n\nThe Hornitos Formation is a Campanian geologic formation of the Algarrobal Basin in the Atacama Region of northern Chile. The formation comprises limestones, sandstones, conglomerates, marls and tuff. Dinosaur remains are among the fossils that have been recovered from the formation, although none have yet been referred to a specific genus.\n\nThe Hornillos Formation, deposited in the Algarrobal Basin, comprises sandstones, limestones, conglomerates, and caliches, intercalated with lavas and andesitic breccias and various volcanic rocks. Between these last is a conspicuous layer of rhyo-dactitic lithic tuff, which reaches up to in thickness. Bones of indeterminate titanosaurs appear in a marly limestone stratum of thick with decimeter-sized calcareous concretions. The smallest pieces were found as rollings, whereas the larger piece was included in the limestone.\n\nThe Hornitos Formation formerly was though to be of Paleocene to Eocene age. The formation may be older and belong to the Early Cretaceous, as a granite intruded the rocks about 105 ± 10 Ma.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25400387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25400387", "title": "Indoor bioaerosol", "text": "Indoor bioaerosol\n\nIndoor bioaerosol is bioaerosol in an indoor environment. Bioaerosols are natural or artificial particles of biological (microbial, plant, or animal) origin suspended in the air. These particles are also referred to as organic dust. Bioaerosols may consist of bacteria, fungi (and spores and cell fragments of fungi), viruses, microbial toxins, pollen, plant fibers, etc. Size of bioaerosol particles varies from below 1 µm to 100 µm in aerodynamic diameter; viable bioaerosol particles can be suspended in air as single cells or aggregates of microorganism as small as 1–10 µm in size. Since bioaerosols are potentially related to various human health effects and the indoor environment provides a unique exposure situation, concerns about indoor bioaerosols have increased over the last decade.\n\nIndoor bioaerosols may originate from outdoor air and indoor reservoirs. Although outdoor bioaerosols cannot easily migrate into large buildings with complex ventilation systems, certain categories of outdoor bioaerosols (i.e., fungal spores) do serve as major sources for indoor bioaerosols in naturally ventilated buildings at specific periods of time (i.e., growing seasons for fungi).\nMajor indoor sources for bioaerosols at residential homes include human occupants, pets, house dust, organic waste, as well as the heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) system. Several studies have identified human activities as an important source for indoor bioaerosols. Human bodies can generate bioaerosols directly through activities like talking, sneezing, and coughing, while other residential activities (i.e., washing, flushing toilet, sweeping floor) can generate bioaerosols indirectly. Since microorganisms can accumulate and grow on dust particles, house dust is a potential source of bioaerosols. In a study by Wouters \"et al\"., they investigated the effects of indoor storage of organic household waste on microbial contamination among 99 households in the Netherlands in the summer of 1997, and indicated that “increased microbial contaminant levels in homes are associated with indoor storage of separated organic waste”, which might elevate “the risk of bioaerosol-related respiratory symptoms in susceptible people”. However, the analysis by Wouters \"et al\". was based on the collected samples of settled house dust, which might not serve as a strong indicator for bioaerosols suspended in the air. Other materials in residential buildings, such as food stuffs, house plants, textiles, wood material and furniture stuffing can also become bioaerosol sources when water content is appropriate for microorganisms to grow.\nFor non-residential buildings, some specific indoor environments, such as hospitals, wastewater treatment plants, composting facilities, certain biotechnical laboratories, have been revealed to have bioaerosol sources related to their particular environmental characteristics.\n\nAccording to previous studies, major indoor environmental factors influencing bioaerosol concentration include relative humidity, characteristics of air ventilation systems, seasonal variation, temperature, and chemical composition of the air. Other factors, such as the type of home, building material, geographical factors, do not seem to have significant impacts on respirable fungi and bacteria (important constituents of bioaerosols). Relative humidity is one of the most widely studied influencing factors for indoor bioaerosols. Concentrations of two categories of bioaerosols, endotoxin and airborne fungi, are both positively related to indoor relative humidity (higher concentration associated with higher relative humidity). Relative humidity also affects the infectivity of airborne viruses. Regarding the characterisation of air ventilation system, increased use of central air conditioning is found to be associated with lower fungal bioaerosol concentration.\n\nAdverse health effects/diseases related to indoor bioaerosol exposure can be divided into two categories: those confirmed to be associated with bioaerosol and those suspected but not confirmed to be associated with bioaerosol. Bioaerosols have been revealed to cause certain human diseases, such as tuberculosis, Legionnaires' disease and different forms of bacterial pneumonia, coccidioidomycosis, influenza, measles, and gastrointestinal illness. Bioaerosols are also associated with some noninfectious airway diseases, such as allergies and asthma. As a known component of indoor bioaerosol, β(1→3)-glucan (cell wall components of most fungi) is proposed to be the causative agent of mold-induced nonallergic inflammatory reactions. It is reported that 25%-30% of allergenic asthma cases in industrialised countries are induced by fungi, which has been the focus of concerns about human exposure to airborne microorganisms in recent years.\n\nSome other human diseases and symptoms have been proposed to be associated with indoor bioaerosol, but no deterministic conclusions could be drawn due to the insufficiency of evidence. One example is the well-known sick building syndrome (SBS). SBS refers to non-specific complaints, such as upper-respiratory irritative symptoms, headaches, fatigue, and rash, which cannot be related to an identifiable cause but are building related. Over the last two decades, there have been many studies indicating association of indoor bioaerosol with sick building syndrome. However, most of the related studies based their conclusions on statistical correlation between concentrations of certain types of bioaerosols and incidence of complaints, which has various drawbacks methodologically. For example, some studies have a small sample size, which critically undermines the validity of speculations based on the statistical results. Also, many studies were not able to exclude the influences of other factors beside bioaerosol in their analysis, which makes the statistical correlation theoretically inappropriate to support association of SBS with bioaerosols. Additional studies revealed that bioaerosol is unlikely to be the cause of SBS. Recent epidemiological and toxicological studies continued to suggest a possible link between bioaerosol exposure and sick building syndrome, but methodological limitations remained in these studies.\n\nThe ability of bioaerosols to cause human disease depend not only on their chemical composition and biological characteristics, but also on the quantity of bioaerosol inhaled and their size distribution, which determines the site of bioaerosol deposition to human respiratory systems. Bioaerosols larger than 10 µm in aerodynamic diameter are generally blocked by the nasal region of the respiratory tract, those between 5-10 µm mainly deposit in the upper respiratory system and usually induce symptoms like allergic rhinitis, and particles with aerodynamic diameter less than 5 µm can reach the alveoli and hence lead to serious illnesses such as allergic alveolitis.\n\nBecause of the confirmed and potential adverse health effects associated with indoor bioaerosol, some concentration limits for total number of bioaerosol particles are recommended by different agencies and organisations as follow: 1000 CFUs/m (National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)), 1000 CFUs/m (American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH)) with the culturable count for total bacteria not exceeding 500 CFUs/m. Note that for most types of indoor bioaerosols, the establishment of specific concentration limits or acceptance levels presents multiple challenges (e.g., differences on sampling and analysis method, irrelevance of sampling units to human exposure measurement; multiplicity and variability of composition, etc.).\n\nTo enable subsequent identification and quantification, bioaerosols need to be captured from the air first. Different air sampling techniques have been used to realise the goal of capturing indoor bioaerosols.. Important characteristics of bioaerosol sampling include: representativeness of sampling, sampler performance, and compatibility with subsequent analysis. Long-term sampler theoretically has a better representativeness of sampling than short-term sampler, but may not have a good temporary resolution. Performance of samplers (i.e., limit of detection and upper limit of range) has a significant impact on the reliability of results. Different characterisations of samplers can also limit the possibilities for further analysis (identification and quantification). Major bioaerosol sampler types and their possible subsequent analysis are summarised in Table 1. A frequently used sampler in previous studies is the Andersen impactor.\n\nCertain limitations exist for commonly used bioaerosol samplers. For most of the samplers, nonbiological environmental particles such as dust must be separated from bioaerosols prior to detection. The diluted nature of bioaerosol in the air also poses challenges to samplers. While total microorganism concentrations are on the order of 10/cm or greater, bioaerosol concentrations are commonly less than 1/cm, and often less than 1/m in the case of infectious aerosols. Moreover, many commercially available bioaerosol samplers haven not been investigated on their collection efficiencies for particles with different aerodynamic diameters, which makes it impossible to get the size-resolved bioaerosol information.\n\nIn previous research on indoor bioaerosol in residential environments, microorganisms have been quantified by conventional culture-based techniques, in which colony forming units (CFU) on selective media are counted. Cultivating methods have several disadvantages. Culture-based methods are known to underestimate environmental microbial diversity, based on the fact that only a small percentage of microbes can be cultivated in the laboratory. This underestimation is likely to be signified for the quantification of bioaerosol, since colony counts of airborne microbes are typically quite different from direct counts. Culture-based methods also need relatively long incubation times (over 24 hours) and are labor-intensive. Consequently, culture-based methods are no longer suitable for effective and rapid identification and quantification of bioaerosol, and non-culture based methods, such as immunoassays, molecular biological tests, and optical, and electrical methods, have been developing over the past few decades.\n\nMajor culture-independent identification/quantification methods adopted in previous bioaerosol studies include polymerase chain reaction (PCR), quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), microarray (PhyloChip), fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH), flow cytometry and solid-phase cytometry, immunoassay (i.e., enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)). The well-known PCR is a powerful tool in identifying and even quantifying the biological origin of bioaerosols. PCR alone cannot accomplish all the tasks related to bioaerosol detection; instead it usually serves as the preparation tool for subsequent processes like DNA sequencing, microarray, and community fingerprinting techniques. A typical procedure for PCR-based bioaerosol analysis is shown in Figure 1.\n\nMolecular biological methods for bioaerosol are significantly faster and more sensitive than conventional culture-based methods, and they are also able to reveal a larger diversity of microbes. Targeting the variation in the 16S rRNA gene, a microarray (PhyloChip) was used to conduct comprehensive identification of both bacterial and archaeal organisms in bioaerosols. New U.S. EPA methods have been developed to utilise qPCR to characterise indoor environment for fungal spores. In a study by Lange \"et al\"., FISH method successfully identified eubacteria in samples of complex native bioaerosols in swine barns. Nonetheless, molecular biological tools have limitations. Since PCR methods target DNA, viability of cells could not be confirmed in some cases. When qPCR technique is used for bioaerosol detection, standard curves need to be developed to calibrate final results. One study indicated that “curves used for quantification by qPCR needs to be prepared using the same environmental matrix and procedures as handling of the environmental sample in question” and that “reliance on the standard curves generated with cultured bacterial suspension (a traditional approach) may lead to substantial underestimation of microorganism quantities in environmental samples”. Microarray techniques also face the challenge of natural sequence diversity and potential cross-hybridisation in complex environmental bioaerosols).\n\nConcentration levels of indoor bioaerosols in different regions of the world recorded in published literatures are summarised as Table 2. \n\nBased on the sources and the influencing factors for indoor bioaerosols, corresponding remedial actions can be taken to control related contamination. Potentially effective strategies include: 1) limiting entrance of outdoor aerosols; 2) keeping the relative humidity level below high levels (<60%); 3) installing appropriate filtration devices to air ventilation system to inlet filtered outdoor air into indoor environment; 4) reducing/removing contaminant sources (i.e., indoor organic waste). As in the U.S., due to the increase in tuberculosis in the mid-1980s, indoor air treatment has developed substantially during the past two decades. Current or developing indoor air purification technologies include filtration, aerosol ultraviolet irradiation, electrostatic precipitation, unipolar ion emission, and photocatalytic oxidation.\n\n"}
{"id": "319186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319186", "title": "Kame delta", "text": "Kame delta\n\nA kame delta (or ice-contact delta, morainic delta) is a glacial landform formed by a stream of melt water flowing through or around a glacier and depositing material, known as kame (stratified sequence of sediments) deposits. Upon entering a proglacial lake at the end (terminus) of a glacier, the river/stream deposit these sediments. This landform can be observed after the glacier has melted and the delta's asymmetrical triangular shape is visible. Once the glacier melts, the edges of the delta may subside as ice under it melts. Glacial till is deposited on the lateral sides of the delta, as the glacier melts.\n\nKame deltas form in association with other glacial features such as, kettles and eskers. Kettle lakes can form in between kame deltas. Eskers are remnants of old stream sediment flows, that are exposed after the glacier has melted. These formations give indication that kame deltas formed during times of glaciation.\n\nAs a river or stream empties into a proglacial lake, sediments of silt, sand, and gravel are deposited into the lake. Since these sediments are stream deposited, the stratigraphy of the beds will be well sorted. In these bed layers, sharp distinct size variations may occur in the clast size. This indicates a quick change in the river or stream's velocity. Over time, depending on how deep the proglacial lake was and if the stream melt water was a constant, these sediments would build up and out of the lake. Sediments will then begin depositing against the terminus, or toe, of the glacier. This type of formation causes the asymmetrical triangular shaped mound, with a flat top. The longer side of the triangle, is the side that slopes down into the proglacial lake. The steeper side is the one that was up against the terminus. As the glacier retreats and the ice under the delta melts, the edges of the glacier will drop, causing a fault line to be visible on the side of the kame delta.\n\nThe Fonthill Kame Delta is the highest point in the Niagara Peninsula region.\n\nTree River, in Nunavut Canada.\n\nGlacial Park, Ringwood, IL.\n\nChenango River, New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3264618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3264618", "title": "Landvættir", "text": "Landvættir\n\nLandvættir (\"land wights\") are spirits of the land in Norse mythology, Scottish druidry, and Germanic neopaganism. They protect and promote the flourishing of the specific places where they live, which can be as small as a rock or a corner of a field, or as large as a section of a country.\n\nSome scholars have suggested that landvættir are chthonic in nature, spirits of the dead, but others have interpreted them as nature spirits, since they sometimes live in land that has never been populated. Hilda Ellis Davidson argued that stories such as that of Goat-Björn imply that they were already there when the settlers arrived in Iceland. Goat-Björn was offered a partnership by a \"rock-dweller\" (\"bergbúi\") and thereafter prospered. People with second sight saw \"all the land-spirits\" following him to the Thing and following his brothers hunting and fishing. They told of people worshipping and receiving advice from spirits living in waterfalls, woods, and rocks.\n\nJörmundur Ingi Hansen, former High Priest of the Ásatrúarfélagið, said that landvættir are \"spirits and they in some way control the safety of the land, the fertility of the land, and so on.\" According to him, they are \"tied to a spot in the landscape, to a huge rock, to a mountain, or to a specially beautiful place\" and that place can be recognized by being more beautiful than \"just a few yards away.\"\n\nThe belief in local landvættir lives on in Iceland, with many farms having rocks that are not mowed closely and on which children are not allowed to play. When construction was about to start on Keflavík air base, the Icelandic foreman dreamed that a woman came to him asking to delay moving a boulder to give her family time to move out. He did so for two weeks over American objections, until she came to him in another dream telling him the landvættir were all out.\n\nOther terms are sometimes used in the texts for the spirits, such as \"bergbúi\", \"ármaðr\", and \"spámaðr\", but there is one mention of pre-Christian Icelanders bringing offerings specifically to \"landvættir\". In a section of Hauksbók, a Christian bishop rails against \"foolish women\" who take food out to rocks and hollows to feed the landvættir in hopes of being blessed with a prosperous household. 10. Carmina Gadelica, Alexander Carmichael (1900) 11. Pictish orthodox Druidism, Ray Hess (2015).\n\nOne version of the Icelandic Book of Settlement says that the ancient law of Iceland forbade having a dragon-prow in place on one's ship in harbor or coming in to land \"with gaping mouth or yawning snout,\" because the landvættir would be frightened away.\n\nIn Egils saga, Egil Skallagrímsson set up a nithing pole to agitate the landvættir in Norway so that they would \"go astray . . . until they have driven King Eric and Queen Gunnhild\" out of the country. Hermann Pálsson and Paul Edwards translate \"landvættir\" as \"guardian spirits\" in this passage.\n\nIceland is protected by four great guardians who are known as the four \"landvættir\" ().\n\nAccording to the Saga of King Olaf Tryggvason in Heimskringla, King Harald Bluetooth Gormsson of Denmark, intending to invade Iceland, had a wizard send his spirit out in the form of a whale to scout it out for points of vulnerability. Swimming westwards around the northern coast, the wizard saw that all the hillsides and hollows were full of landvættir, \"some large and some small.\" He swam up Vopnafjörður, intending to go ashore, but a great dragon came flying down the valley toward him, followed by many snakes, insects, and lizards, all spitting poison at him. So he went back and continued around the coast westward to Eyjafjörður, where he again swam inland. This time he was met by a great bird, so big that its wings touched the hillsides on either side, with many other birds large and small following it. Retreating again and continuing west and south, he swam into Breiðafjörður. There he was met by a huge bull, bellowing horribly, with many landvættir following it. He retreated again, continued south around Reykjanes, and tried to come ashore at Vikarsskeið, but there he encountered a mountain giant (\"bergrisi\"), his head higher than the hill-tops, with an iron staff in his hand and followed by many other giants (\"jötnar\"). He continued along the south coast but saw nowhere else where a longship could put in, \"nothing but sands and wasteland and high waves crashing on the shore.\"\n\nThe four landvættir are now regarded as the protectors of the four quarters of Iceland: the dragon (\"Dreki\") in the east, the eagle (\"Gammur\") in the north, the bull (\"Griðungur\") in the west, and the giant (\"Bergrisi\") in the south. \n\nThe four landvættir of Iceland are depicted on the Icelandic coat of arms and on the obverse of the Icelandic króna coins.\n\n"}
{"id": "6328711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6328711", "title": "Leptokarya", "text": "Leptokarya\n\nLeptokarya (, \"Leptokaryá\") is a town in Pieria regional unit, Central Macedonia, Greece, former seat of East Olympos municipality, which is part of the municipality of Dio-Olympos. The distance from Katerini is 26 km and the population of the village was 4,225 inhabitants as of 2011.\n\nLies on the coast of Aegean Sea, under the Mount Olympos. It is located near ancient Leivithra, allegedly the home of Orpheus, major figure in the Greek Mythology. Since the major events and customs in the town is the revival of division of Orpheus.\n\nLeptokarya is a popular tourist destination during the summer months due to its beaches, as well as due to its proximity to Mount Olympus. The town also features the Olympus Geological History Museum.\n\nThe town is served by Leptokarya train station. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "166125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166125", "title": "List of Quercus species", "text": "List of Quercus species\n\nThe genus \"Quercus\" (oak) contains about 600 species, some of which are listed here.\n\nFor the taxonomic status of the oaks see The Plant List.\n\n \nThe white oaks (synonym sect. \"Lepidobalanus\" or \"Leucobalanus\"). Europe, Asia, north Africa, North America. Styles short; acorns mature in 6 months, sweet or slightly bitter, inside of acorn shell hairless.\n\nEurope, Asia, north Africa. Styles long; acorns mature in 6 months, bitter, inside of acorn shell hairless (closely related to sect. \"Quercus\" and sometimes included in it).\n\nEurope, Asia, north Africa. Styles long; acorns mature in 18 months, very bitter, inside of acorn shell hairless or slightly hairy.\n\nThe intermediate oaks. Southwest USA and northwest Mexico. Styles short, acorns mature in 18 months, very bitter, inside of acorn shell woolly.\n\n\nThe red oaks (synonym sect. \"Erythrobalanus\"). North, Central and South America. Styles long, acorns mature in 18 months(in most species), very bitter, inside of acorn shell woolly.\n\nThe ring-cupped oaks (synonym genus \"Cyclobalanopsis\"). Eastern and southeastern Asia. They are distinct from subgenus \"Quercus\" in that they have acorns with distinctive cups bearing concrescent rings of scales; they commonly also have densely clustered acorns, though this does not apply to all of the species. About 150 species.\n\n<nowiki>#</nowiki> Species with evergreen foliage (\"live oaks\") are tagged #. Note that the change from deciduous to evergreen character (or vice versa) has evolved on numerous occasions in \"Quercus\", and does not necessarily indicate that the species concerned are closely related.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26360882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26360882", "title": "List of earthquakes in Armenia", "text": "List of earthquakes in Armenia\n\nThis is an incomplete list of earthquakes in Armenia.\nNote: The inclusion criteria for adding events are based on ' that was developed for stand alone articles. The principles described also apply to lists. In summary, only damaging, injurious, or deadly events should be recorded.\n"}
{"id": "21046950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21046950", "title": "List of earthquakes in India", "text": "List of earthquakes in India\n\nThe Indian subcontinent has a history of earthquakes. The reason for the intensity and high frequency of earthquakes is the Indian plate driving into Asia at a rate of approximately 47 mm/year. The following is a list of major earthquakes which have occurred in India.\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "43606360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43606360", "title": "List of energy cooperatives", "text": "List of energy cooperatives\n\nThis is a list of energy cooperatives. A cooperative is an autonomous association of persons who voluntarily cooperate for their mutual social, economic, and cultural benefit. Cooperatives include non-profit community organizations and businesses that are owned and managed by the people who use its services (a consumer cooperative) or by the people who work there (a worker cooperative) or by the people who live there (a housing cooperative), hybrids such as worker cooperatives that are also consumer cooperatives or credit unions, multi-stakeholder cooperatives such as those that bring together civil society and local actors to deliver community needs, and second and third tier cooperatives whose members are other cooperatives.\n\nA 2009 study found that 23% of the newly founded cooperatives in Germany were in the energy sector. These cooperatives primarily operate wind farms, bioenergy and photovoltaic farms with local and regional scope.\n\nIn 2014 Germany had close to 1000 energy cooperatives, among them: \n"}
{"id": "20981720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20981720", "title": "List of inselbergs", "text": "List of inselbergs\n\nAn inselberg (or monadnock) is an isolated hill, knob, ridge, outcrop, or small mountain that rises abruptly from a gently sloping or virtually level surrounding plain. The following is a list of notable inselbergs worldwide.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179604", "title": "List of lakes", "text": "List of lakes\n\nFor rank-order lists, see List of lakes by area, List of lakes by depth, List of lakes by volume.\n\n\n\"See also: Great Lakes of Africa, Rift Valley lakes\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are around 400 lakes under the ice of Antarctica.\n\n\nThe Caspian Sea, located in western Asia on the eastern edges of Europe, is the largest lake on the planet. History records that it is called a sea because the Romans found it salty, especially in the southern reaches, and the name stuck. Oil and natural gas production platforms are replete along the edges of the sea. In addition, large quantities of sturgeon live in its waters, and the caviar produced from their eggs is a valuable commodity. Fresh water flows into the sea via the Volga River and Ural River in the north; however, the sea remains somewhat salty, central and south. The measured surface area is 371,000 sq km (143,244 sq mi), and he maximum depth is at 1025 m (3,363 ft). Additional details and map.\n\nLake Baikal is positioned in southeastern (Siberia) Russia, directly to the north of Mongolia. Recognized as the oldest (still existing) freshwater lake on the planet, it is also measured as the deepest continental body of water at 5,315 feet (1,620 m). In addition, it is the largest freshwater lake by volume, containing an astounding 20% of the planet's fresh water. With a maximum width of 60 miles (96 km), Lake Baikal is about 389 miles (626 km) in length. Completely surrounded by mountains, over 300 rivers and streams drain into this massive lake. Detailed map.\n\nPositioned in far-western Asia, just to the east of the Caspian Sea, the Aral Sea is located in the countries of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. The Aral Sea is disappearing (evaporating) and is today almost totally polluted by fertilizer runoff, weapon testing residue left here by the former Soviet Union and careless industrial projects. The mismanagement of its valuable waters is considered by many experts to be one of the world's worst environmental disasters. Diversion of the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for irrigation began in 1918, and that action, along with other factors have now shrunk the Aral Sea to almost 60% of its former size. Over the last few years the outlook for the northern reaches of the sea have brightened some, but the lower half is basically abandoned and the remaining western waters are now predicted to be gone within a decade. Additional details and map.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPoland\n\n\n\n\nListed in order of occurrence from easternmost border terminus to the westernmost\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34901104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34901104", "title": "List of mountain passes in Oregon", "text": "List of mountain passes in Oregon\n\nThere are at least 318 mountain passes in the U. S. state of Oregon.\n\nThere are several words in use for a mountain pass in Oregon; the usage for each is:\n\n"}
{"id": "88207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88207", "title": "List of national parks of Brazil", "text": "List of national parks of Brazil\n\nA List of national parks of Brazil follows. National parks are a legally-defined type of protected area of Brazil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "321126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321126", "title": "List of rivers of Canada", "text": "List of rivers of Canada\n\nThe list of rivers of Canada is organized by drainage basin and province.\n\nThe major Canadian drainage basins are the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591345", "title": "List of stars in Auriga", "text": "List of stars in Auriga\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Auriga, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n"}
{"id": "15679944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15679944", "title": "Mediterranean dry woodlands and steppe", "text": "Mediterranean dry woodlands and steppe\n\nThe Mediterranean dry woodlands and steppe is a Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub ecoregion of North Africa. It occupies interior plateaus and mountain ranges of the Maghreb region, lying generally between the coastal Mediterranean woodlands and forests to the north and the Sahara to the south.\nThe Mediterranean woodlands and forests occupy an area of in Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia. The main portion of the ecoregions extends from the southern slopes of the High Atlas in eastern Morocco across Algeria and Tunisia, where it meets the Mediterranean shore at the Gulf of Gabes. In Algeria, it lies south of the coastal Tell Atlas, covering the high plateau and Saharan Atlas. Further east, several enclaves of the ecoregion lie nearer the coast. In western Tripolitania it lies to the Mediterranean shore, and on the Cyrenaica peninsula it forms a belt between the Mediterranean woodlands and forests and the Sahara. The easternmost portion of the ecoregion is a small coastal enclave lying just west of the Nile Delta in Egypt, near the city of Alexandria.\n\nThe climate of the region is arid and annual rainfall is between 100 and 300 mm. The rainfall occurs mainly during the winter months, normally as intermittent storms. It can get as cold as O°C during the winter and temperatures can climb to 40 °C during the summer months, the mean annual temperature is around 18 °C.\n\nThe human population of these regions is low, settled agriculture is only viable in valleys where there is a supply of water, such as \"dayas\", depressions with good quality soil, and the beds of \"wadis\". In these areas it is possible to cultivate fodder and food crops. Such agriculture may not be possible in every year and they farmers shift to follow the rainfall.. Poupulation densities are low and most of the population are somewhat nomadic, however, there are some permanent settlements in coastal towns where the main economic activity is fishing.\n\nAt higher elevations on the plateau, different types of steppe vegetation dominate depending on soil conditions, for example in the slopes and foothills of the Atlas Mountains there is a steppe dominated by \"Stipa tenacissima\" whereas \"Artemisia herba-alba\" dominates in where there are silty slopes and depressions; \"Lygeum spartum\" steppe grows in sandy soils. Where sand accumulates there is a mosaic of vegetation types including patches of \"Thymeleae muicrophila\", \"Aristida pungens\", \"Retama retam\", and of tamarisks \"Tamarix spp\". In depressions the vegetation includes a scrub consisting of the Mount Atlas mastic tree \"Pistacia atlantica\", \"Ziziphus lotus\", \"Asterichus graveolens\" and mallows \"Malva spp\".\n\nThe fauna lacks endemism and most species found are widespread. There are abundant small mammals including many gerbil species, the endangered four-toed jerboa \"Allactaga tetradactyla\" and the Günther's vole \"Microtus guentheri\". Barbary sheep \"Ammotragus lervia\" and mountain gazelle \"Gazella cuvieri\" still have populations in the region, as does the striped hyena \"Htaena hyaena\", and these are mixed with mammals which have more European origins such as wild boar \"Sus scrofa\", Eurasian otter \"Lutra lutra\" and red fox \"Vulpes vulpes\". These European affinities are echoed in the herpetofauna where grass snake \"Natrix natrix\", Sahara frog \"Pelophylax saharicus\" and the European green toad \"Bufo viridis\" mixed with the African common toad \"Amietophrynus regularis\". The North African ostrich \"Struthio camelus camelus\" occurred in this region but is now largely extirpated.\n\n"}
{"id": "962842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=962842", "title": "New Jersey Naval Museum", "text": "New Jersey Naval Museum\n\nThe New Jersey Naval Museum (NJNM), located along the Hackensack River in Hackensack in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States, is dedicated to the state's Navy heritage and naval history in general. The prominent element in the collection is the USS \"Ling\" (SS-297), a long \"Balao\"-class submarine of World War II. The museum is located along River Street and is operated by the Submarine Memorial Association.\n\nSince 1972, the Museum had paid one dollar per year to rent its riverside site. In January 2007, the North Jersey Media Group, owner of the site, informed the museum that the site was going to be sold for redevelopment within the year and that the museum and submarine would need to be relocated. Efforts are being made to find an alternate site.\n\nWhen the museum still operated, guided tours of the \"Ling\" were available to take visitors from bow to stern, exploring equipment, quarters, and weaponry. The weaponry on the \"Ling\" includes twenty-four torpedoes and one 4\" deck gun (it originally had two 5\" deck guns) for handling military targets too small to warrant the expenditure of a torpedo.\n\nVolunteers maintained Japanese Kaiten IIs, a World War II Japanese suicide torpedo; a German Seehund, a World War II German two-man coastal defense submarine; and A Vietnam War-era Patrol Boat, River (PBR), all of which the US Navy has since reclaimed, in addition to \"Ling\" and some torpedoes, missiles, and artillery shells. The onshore museum building contained a number of different and unique items ranging from a United States Navy SEALs delivery vehicle to personal photographs and effects.\n\nAfter Hurricane Sandy the gangway was destroyed, leading to the closure of the sub and museum. Furthermore, the area was selected for a development project. The Naval History and Heritage Command has taken several artifacts after they were in a state of disrepair; with the remaining artifacts being housed by Harbor Freight.\n\nOn September the 10th, 4 memorial plaques and artifacts from the submarine were stolen. The Ling was also flooded. Several people have been identified in connection with the burglary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2123460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123460", "title": "Novaculite", "text": "Novaculite\n\nNovaculite, also called Arkansas Stone, is a microcrystalline to cryptocrystalline rock type that consists of silica in the form of chert or flint. It is commonly white to grey or black in color, with a specific gravity that ranges from 2.2 to 2.5. It is used in the production of sharpening stones. It occurs in parts of Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Texas, as well as in Japan and parts of the Middle East. The name \"novaculite\" is derived from the Latin word \"novacula\", meaning a sharp knife, dagger, or razor in reference to its use in sharpening.\n\nNovaculite beds are present in the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas and Oklahoma, and in the Marathon Uplift and Solitario regions of Texas. Novaculite is very resistant to erosion and the beds stand out as ridges in the Ouachita Mountains. There are also occurrences in Japan, Syria, Lebanon, and Israel.\n\nThe novaculite beds of the south-central United States were deposited in the Ouachita Geosyncline, a deep-water marine trough, during Silurian to early Mississippian time. Sedimentation consisted primarily of siliceous skeletal particles of marine organisms such as sponge spicules and radiolaria, and very fine-grained, wind-blown quartz particles; there was very little argillaceous sedimentation during novaculite deposition. The novaculite beds were later subjected to folding and uplift, and probably low-grade metamorphism, during the Ouachita orogeny in early Pennsylvanian time.\n\nBecause novaculite is very hard and dense, it has been mined since prehistoric times, first for use as arrow and spear points, and later to make sharpening stones. Novaculite-rich sharpening stones from Arkansas are called \"Arkansas stones\"; stones produced in the Ottoman empire (Syria, Lebanon, and Israel) were called \"Turkey stones\"; and novaculite stones were also produced in Japan.\n\nThe weathered upper strata of Arkansas novaculite, known as tripoli or \"rotten stone\", are rich in silica and have found a niche market as a performance additive or filler in the coatings, adhesives, sealants, and elastomer industries. Tripoli is mined just east of Hot Springs, Arkansas by the Malvern Minerals Company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39797382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39797382", "title": "Nuclear pasta", "text": "Nuclear pasta\n\nIn astrophysics and nuclear physics, nuclear pasta is a theoretical type of degenerate matter that is postulated to exist within the crusts of neutron stars. Between the surface of a neutron star and the quark–gluon plasma at the core, at matter densities of 10 g/cm, nuclear attraction and Coulomb repulsion forces are of similar magnitude. The competition between the forces allows for the formation of a variety of complex structures assembled from neutrons and protons. Astrophysicists call these types of structures \"nuclear pasta\" because the geometry of the structures resembles various types of pasta.\n\nNeutron stars form as remnants of massive stars after a supernova event. Unlike their progenitor star, neutron stars do not consist of a gaseous plasma. Rather, the intense gravitational attraction of the compact mass overcomes the electron degeneracy pressure and causes electron capture to occur within the star. The result is a compact ball of nearly pure neutron matter with sparse protons and electrons in between in a space several thousand times smaller than the progenitor star.\n\nAt the surface, the pressure is low enough that conventional nuclei, such as helium and iron, can exist independently of one another, and are not crushed together due to the mutual Coulomb repulsion of their nuclei. At the core, the pressure is so great that this Coulomb repulsion cannot support individual nuclei, and some form of ultradense matter, such as the theorized quark–gluon plasma, should exist.\n\nThe presence of a small population of protons is essential to the formation of nuclear pasta. The nuclear attraction between protons and neutrons is greater than the nuclear attraction of two protons or two neutrons. Similar to how neutrons act to stabilize heavy nuclei of conventional atoms against the electric repulsion of the protons, the protons act to stabilize the pasta phases. The competition between the electric repulsion of the protons, the attractive force between nuclei, and the pressure at different depths in the star lead to the formation of nuclear pasta.\n\nWhile nuclear pasta has not been observed in a neutron star, its phases are theorized to exist in the inner crust of neutron stars, forming a transition region between the conventional matter at the surface, and the ultradense matter at the core. Towards the top of this transition region, the pressure is great enough that conventional nuclei will be condensed into much more massive semi-spherical collections. These formations would be unstable outside the star, due to their high neutron content and size, which can vary between tens and hundreds of nucleons. This semispherical phase is known as the gnocchi phase.\n\nWhen the gnocchi phase is compressed, as would be expected in deeper layers of the crust, the electric repulsion of the protons in the gnocchi is not fully sufficient to support the existence of the individual spheres, and they are crushed into long rods, which, depending on their length, can contain many thousands of nucleons. Immersed in a neutron liquid, these rods are known as the spaghetti phase. Further compression causes the spaghetti phase rods to fuse, and form sheets of nuclear matter. This is called the lasagna phase. Further compression of the lasagna phase yields the uniform nuclear matter of the outer core with intermittent holes of neutron (and possibly proton) liquid. Progressing deeper into the inner crust, those holes in the nuclear pasta change from being cylindrical, dubbed by some the bucatini phase or antispaghetti phase, into scattered spherical holes, which can be called the Swiss cheese phase. The nuclei disappear at the crust-core interface, transitioning into the liquid core of the star. For a typical neutron star of 1.4 solar masses () and 12 km radius, the nuclear pasta layer in the crust can be about 100 m thick and have a mass of about 0.01 . In terms of mass, this is a significant portion of the crust of a neutron star.\n"}
{"id": "6096927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6096927", "title": "Observations (Pierre Belon)", "text": "Observations (Pierre Belon)\n\nLes observations de plusieurs singularitez et choses memorables trouvées en Grèce, Asie, Judée, Egypte, Arabie et autres pays estranges is a work of ethnographical, botanical and zoological exploration by Pierre Belon (1517–1564), a French naturalist from Le Mans. Starting in 1546, Belon travelled through Greece, Asia Minor, Egypt, Arabia and Palestine, returning to France in 1549.\n\nHis \"Observations\", with illustrations, were first published in 1553. A second edition appeared in 1555. The work was translated into Latin by Charles de l'Écluse (Carolus Clusius) and published in 1589 under the title \"Petri Bellonii Cenomani plurimorum singularium et memorabilium rerum ... observationes\". The Latin text was reprinted as an appendix to Clusius's \"Exoticorum libri decem\" (1605).\n\n"}
{"id": "59165649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59165649", "title": "Pacific Centennial Oscillation", "text": "Pacific Centennial Oscillation\n\nPacific Centennial Oscillation is a climate oscillation predicted by some climate models.\n\nIn the Pacific Ocean, variability in sea surface temperatures is an important influence on precipitation regimens in the Americas and how this variability changes in response to anthropogenic climate change (El Nino-like or La Nina-like) may determine the outcome of climate change. The sea surface temperature patterns may fluctuate over thousands or millions of years and determining trends and patterns from observational data is difficult.\n\nSeveral climate models have shown the existence of a centennial scale cycle in Pacific Ocean temperatures, with fluctuations of about and most temperature changes concentrated below the surface of the Western Pacific. The predicted effects have some similarities to El Nino Southern Oscillation and may be responsible for recent La Nina-like trends in Pacific Ocean temperature patterns and trends in the east-west gradient of Pacific sea surface temperatures from 1900 forward; in one climate model the Pacific Centennial Oscillation drives long droughts in the Southwestern United States such as the 2011–2017 California drought.\nThe Pacific Centennial Oscillation cycle however might be spurious, a model artifact. Later research has shown the possibility that centennial cycles in the Pacific Ocean sea surface temperature structure can be a consequence of an overly long Pacific cold tongue, although genuine centennial cycles in nature cannot be completely ruled out.\n\n"}
{"id": "40013071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40013071", "title": "Plants in space", "text": "Plants in space\n\nPlants in space is about plants in outer space. In the late 20th and 21st century, plants were often taken into space in low Earth orbit to be grown in a weightless but pressurized controlled environment, sometimes called space gardens. In the context of human spaceflight, they can be consumed as food and/or provide a refreshing atmosphere. Plants can metabolize carbon dioxide in the air to produce valuable oxygen, and can help control cabin humidity. Growing plants in space may provide a psychological benefit to human spaceflight crews. Usually the plants were part of studies or technical development to further develop space gardens or conduct science experiments. To date plants taken into space have had mostly scientific interest, with only limited contributions to the functionality of the spacecraft, however the Apollo Moon tree project was more or less forestry inspired mission and the trees part of a country's bicentennial celebration\n\nThe first challenge in growing plants in space is how to get plants to grow without gravity. This runs into difficulties regarding the effects of gravity on root development, providing appropriate types of lighting, and other challenges. In particular, the nutrient supply to root as well as the nutrient biogeochemical cycles, and the microbiological interactions in soil-based substrates are particularly complex, but have been shown to make possible space farming in hypo- and micro-gravity.\n\nNASA plans to grow plants in space to help feed astronauts, and to provide psychological benefits for long-term space flight. In 2017, aboard ISS in one plant growth device, the 5th crop of Chinese cabbage (\"Brassica rapa\") from it included an allotment for crew consumption, while the rest was saved for study. A Japanese artist took images of flowers and bonsai tree in a near-space flight using a balloon. An early discussion of plants in space, were the trees on the brick moon space station, in the 1869 short story \"The Brick Moon\".\n\nIn the 2010s there was an increased desire for long-term space missions, which lead to desire for space-based plant production as food for astronauts. An example of this is vegetable production on the International Space Station in Earth orbit. By the year 2010, 20 plant growth experiments had been conducted aboard the international Space Station..\n\nSeveral experiments have been focused on how plant growth and distribution compares in micro-gravity, space conditions versus Earth conditions. This enables scientists to explore whether certain plant growth patterns are innate or environmentally driven. For instance, Allan H. Brown tested seedling movements aboard the Space Shuttle Columbia in 1983. Sunflower seedling movements were recorded while in orbit. They observed that the seedlings still experienced rotational growth and circumnation despite lack of gravity, showing these behaviors are instinctual.\n\nOther experiments have found that plants have the ability exhibit gravitropism, even in low-gravity conditions. For instance, the ESA's European Modular Cultivation System enables experimentation with plant growth; acting as a miniature greenhouse, scientists aboard the International Space Station can investigate how plants react in variable-gravity conditions.The Gravi-1 experiment (2008) utilized the EMCS to study lentil seedling growth and amyloplast movement on the calcium-dependent pathways. The results of this experiment found that the plants were able to sense the direction of gravity even at very low levels. A later experiment with the EMCS placed 768 lentil seedlings in a centrifuge to stimulate various gravitational changes; this experiment, Gravi-2 (2014), displayed that plants change calcium signalling towards root growth while being grown in a several gravity levels.\n\nMany experiments have a more generalized approach in observing overall plant growth patterns as opposed to one specific growth behavior. One such experiment from the Canadian Space Agency, for example, found that white spruce seedlings grew differently in the anti-gravity space environment compared with Earth-bound seedlings; the space seedlings exhibited enhanced growth from the shoots and needles, and also had randomized amyloplast distribution compared with the Earth-bound control group.\n\nThe first organisms in space were \"specially developed strains of seeds\" launched to on 9 July 1946 on a U.S. launched V-2 rocket. These samples were not recovered. The first seeds launched into space and successfully recovered were maize seeds launched on 30 July 1946. Soon followed rye and cotton. These early suborbital biological experiments were handled by Harvard University and the Naval Research Laboratory and were concerned with radiation exposure on living tissue. In 1971, 500 tree seeds (Loblolly pine, Sycamore, Sweetgum, Redwood, and Douglas fir) were flown around the Moon on Apollo 14. These Moon trees were planted and grown with controls back on Earth where no changes were detected.\n\nIn 1982, the crew of the Soviet Salyut 7 space station conducted an experiment, prepared by Lithuanian scientists (Alfonsas Merkys and others), and grew some Arabidopsis using Fiton-3 experimental micro-greenhouse apparatus, thus becoming the first plants to flower and produce seeds in space. A Skylab experiment studied the effects of gravity and light on rice plants. The SVET-2 Space Greenhouse successfully achieved seed to seed plant growth in 1997 aboard space station \"Mir\". Bion 5 carried \"Daucus carota\" and Bion 7 carried maize (aka corn).\n\nPlant research continued on the International Space Station. Biomass Production System was used on the ISS Expedition 4. The Vegetable Production System (Veggie) system was later used aboard ISS. Plants tested in Veggie before going into space included lettuce, Swiss chard, radishes, Chinese cabbage and peas. Red Romaine lettuce was grown in space on Expedition 40 which were harvested when mature, frozen and tested back on Earth. Expedition 44 members became the first American astronauts to eat plants grown in space on 10 August 2015, when their crop of Red Romaine was harvested. Since 2003 Russian cosmonauts have been eating half of their crop while the other half goes towards further research. In 2012, a sunflower bloomed aboard the ISS under the care of NASA astronaut Donald Pettit. In January 2016, US astronauts announced that a zinnia had blossomed aboard the ISS.\n\nIn 2017 the \"Advanced Plant Habitat\" was designed for ISS, which was a nearly self-sustaining plant growth system for that space station in low Earth orbit. The system is installed in parallel with another plant grown system aboard the station, VEGGIE, and a major difference with that system is that APH is designed to need less upkeep by humans. APH is supported by the \" Plant Habitat Avionics Real-Time Manager\". Some plants that were to be tested in APH include Dwarf Wheat and Arabidopsis.. In December 2017 hundreds of seeds were delivered to ISS for growth in the VEGGIE system.\n\nin 2018 the Veggie-3 experiment was tested with plant pillows and root mats. One of the goals is to grow food for crew consumption. Crops tested at this time include cabbage, lettuce, and mizuna. In 2018, the PONDS system for nutrient deliver in microgravity was tested.\n\nPlants grown in space include:\n\nSome experiments to do with plants include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4567598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4567598", "title": "Public ecology", "text": "Public ecology\n\nThe idea of public ecology has recently emerged in response to increasing disparities over political, social, and environmental concerns. Of particular interest are the processes that generate, evaluate and apply knowledge in political, social, and environmental arenas. Public ecology offers a way of framing sustainability problems, community dynamics and social issues. Forests, watersheds, parks, flora, fauna, air, and water all constitute environmental quality and are therefore public goods. The processes society engages in to negotiate the meaning of these goods, upon which decisions and actions are based, reside within the public domain.\n\nThe boundaries that are ascribed to both social and ecological systems are permeable and dynamic. The creation and maintenance of these boundaries should not be exclusionary. Politicians, economists and ecologist must work with citizens across cultural, organizational, institutional, political and geographic boundaries. However, which citizens should be involved, and to what extent and in what manner they should participate are questions that need to be addressed.\n\nKnowledge bases, roles of experts, and state and local power dynamics are changing in ways that impel us to learn new ways of coexisting. A more public ecology could take many forms and exist in many forums, some of which are currently being explored through theory and practice. Adaptive Management, citizen science (Backstrand 2003), ecological real-world experiments (Gross & Hoffmann-Riem 2005), and Collaborative Ecosystem Governance (Karkkainen 2002) are examples of evolving processes that attempt to deal with the increasing complexity and dynamism of social and ecological systems. Governance of these systems must integrate biological and social dimensions. Competing value claims will inevitably arise and lead to conflicts that must be addressed through an inclusive, deliberative and adaptive process. An understanding of ecosystems must consider and dignify the values of affected communities and not just rely on claims made by scientific experts.\n\nthat separate scientists, policy-makers, and citizens\n\nclaims\n\ninclusive and pluralist process\n\n(\"Adapted from David Robertson, Bruce Hull and Timothy Luke\")\n\nMany of these principles are shared or have roots in disciplines such as political ecology, sustainable development, urban ecology, conservation biology and restoration ecology. Public Ecology also shares a common interdisciplinary and holistic approach to social-environmental interactions with Human Ecology.\n\n\"“The challenge today is how to develop a truly public ecology with new organizations, institutions, and ideas whose material articulation can balance the insights of scientific experts, the concerns of private property holders, the worries about social inequity, and the need for ecological sustainability to support human and nonhuman life in the 21st century.”\" \n\n\"“Public ecology is distinctive in that it explicitly and critically embraces its own normativity and uncertainty while striving to create a more democratic body of knowledge that will help us to understand the environment as a complex and dynamic biocultural system, one that can be interpreted from a variety of perspectives and points of view. Public ecology encourages citizens and all concerned stakeholders to participate with research scientists and professional policy-makers in the interdisciplinary, collaborative efforts necessary to resolve the uncertainty and conflict that surrounds contemporary environmental issues”\" (Robertson and Hull 2003)\n\n\"“Public ecology is a more powerful ecology. It is a body of environmental knowledge that seeks to bridge the gulf between science and policy. Public ecology not only exists at the interface of science and policy but functions as a joint product of these generally disparate realms. The language of public ecology facilitates the flow of ideas and information form one side to the other and back again.”\" (Robertson and Hull 2001)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46371949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46371949", "title": "Regeneration (ecology)", "text": "Regeneration (ecology)\n\nRegeneration is the ability for a cell, tissue, or organism to recover from damage. It can also be used to describe the ability of an ecosystem-- specifically, the environment and its living population-- to recover from damage.\n\nResilience to minor disturbances is one characteristic feature of healthy ecosystems. Following major (lethal) disturbances, such as a fire or pest outbreak in a forest, an immediate return to the previous dynamic equilibrium will not be possible. Instead, pioneering species will occupy, compete for space, and establish themselves in the newly opened habitat. The new growth of seedlings and community assembly process is known as regeneration in ecology. As ecological succession sets in, a forest will slowly regenerate towards its former state within the succession (climax or any intermediate stage), provided that all outer parameters (climate, soil fertility availability of nutrients, animal migration paths, air pollution or the absence thereof, etc.) remain unchanged.\n\nIn certain regions like Australia, natural wildfire is a necessary condition for a cyclically stable ecosystem with cyclic regeneration.\n\nWhile natural disturbances are usually fully compensated by the rules of ecological succession, human interference can significantly alter the regenerative homeostatic faculties of an ecosystem up to a degree that self-healing will not be possible. For regeneration to occur, active restoration must be attempted.\n\n"}
{"id": "827218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827218", "title": "Richard Mabey", "text": "Richard Mabey\n\nRichard Thomas Mabey (born 20 February 1941) is a writer and broadcaster, chiefly on the relations between nature and culture. \n\nMabey was educated at three independent schools, all in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire. The first was at Rothesay School, followed by Berkhamsted Preparatory School and then Berkhamsted School. He then went to St Catherine's College at the University of Oxford where he read Philosophy, Politics and Economics.\n\nAfter Oxford, Mabey worked as a lecturer in Social Studies in Further Education at Dacorum College, Hemel Hempstead, then as a Senior Editor at Penguin Books. He became a full-time writer in 1974. He spent most of his life among the beechwoods of the Chilterns. He now lives in the Waveney Valley in Norfolk, with his partner Polly Lavendar, and retreats to a boat on the Norfolk Broads.\n\nIn the 1970s and 80s Mabey wrote and presented several television documentaries. He appeared in the 1975 BBC programme \"In Deepest Britain\", with John Gooders and other naturalists, giving an unscripted narration of the wildlife observed during a country walk. He wrote and narrated the 1996 BBC television series \"Postcards from the Country\", for whose eight, 40- minute episodes he was series producer, as well as being the producer- director on four. He made a film for the BBC on Kew Gardens. His \"Unofficial Countryside\" and \"The Flowering of Britain\" were based on his books of the same names. \"White Rock, Black Water\" was a specially-written film about the limestone Country of the Yorkshire Dales, and a Channel 4 8-part series - \"Back to the Roots\" – explored the role of plants in Britain’s contemporary culture . In the 1990s he appeared regularly on BBC’s \"Country File\".\n\nBetween 1982 and 1986 he sat on the UK government’s advisory body, the Nature Conservancy Council. Mabey writes regularly for \"The Guardian\", the \"New Statesman\", \"The Times\" and \"Granta\". A selection of these writings was compiled as the book \"Country Matters\". He has written a personal column in \"BBC Wildlife\" magazine since 1984, and a selection of these columns has been published as \"A Brush with Nature\".\n\nBetween 2000 and 2002 Mabey suffered from depression, and his book \"Nature Cure\", describing his experiences and recovery in the context of man’s relationship with landscape and nature, was short-listed for three major literary awards, the Whitbread Biography of the Year, the Royal Society of Literature’s Ondaatje Prize for evoking the spirit of place and the J.R. Ackerley Prize for Autobiography.\n\nHe has edited and introduced editions of Richard Jefferies, Gilbert White, Flora Thompson and Peter Matthiessen. His contributions to BBC radio include 'The Scientist and the Romantic', a series of five essays on his lifelong relationship with science and the natural environment broadcast in 'The Essay' on Radio 3 in 2009, and \"Changing Climates\", on our everyday experience of living with the weather, in 2013. Mabey was the first president of the London Wildlife Trust and later a Vice-president; Mabey's Meadow, named for him by the London Wildlife Trust, was one of his favourite haunts, and is described in his book \"The Unofficial Countryside\" (1974). It provides the only access to Frays Island in the River Colne.\n\nMabey has been awarded two Leverhulme Fellowships, and honorary doctorates by St Andrews, Essex and East Anglia for his contributions to nature writing. He was awarded a Civil List Pension in 2008 for services to literature. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 2011. He is a Trustee of the arts and conservation charity Common Ground, Vice-President of the Open Spaces Society, Patron of the John Clare Society and President of the Waveney and Blythe Arts.\n\nHis life of Gilbert White won the 1986 Whitbread Biography of the Year. His \"Flora Britannica\" won the British Book Awards’ Illustrated Book of the Year and the Botanical Society of the British Isles’ President’s Award, and was runner-up for the BP Natural World Book Prize.\n\nThe National Portrait Gallery has a 1984 bromide print of Richard Mabey by Mark Gerson. Mabey sat for sculptor Jon Edgar in Norfolk during 2007, as part of The Environment Triptych (2008) along with heads of Mary Midgley and James Lovelock.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50932645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50932645", "title": "Sanctus (species)", "text": "Sanctus (species)\n\nThe species name sanctus (Latin for \"sacred\") occurs in several binomial names in the taxonomy of life. Examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "54648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54648", "title": "Solar flare", "text": "Solar flare\n\nA solar flare is a sudden flash of increased brightness on the Sun, usually observed near its surface\nand in close proximity to a sunspot group. \nPowerful flares are often, but not always, accompanied by a coronal mass ejection. Even the most powerful flares are barely detectable in the total solar irradiance.\n\nSolar flares occur in a power-law spectrum of magnitudes; an energy release of typically 10 joules of energy suffices to produce a clearly observable event, while a major event can emit up to 10 joules.\n\nFlares eject clouds of electrons, ions, and atoms through the Sun's corona into outer space, and also emit radio waves. \n\nIf ejection is in the direction of the Earth, particles associated with this disturbance can penetrate into the upper atmosphere (the ionosphere) and cause bright auroras, and may even disrupt long range radio communication. \nIt usually takes a day or two for the solar ejecta to reach Earth. Flares also occur on other stars, where the term stellar flare applies.\n\nOn July 23, 2012, a massive, potentially damaging, solar storm (solar flare, coronal mass ejection and electromagnetic radiation) barely missed Earth. According to NASA, there may be as much as a 12% chance of a similar event occurring between 2012 and 2022.\n\nSolar flares affect all layers of the solar atmosphere (photosphere, chromosphere, and corona). The plasma medium is heated to tens of millions of Kelvin, while electrons, protons, and heavier ions are accelerated to near the speed of light. Flares produce electromagnetic radiation across the electromagnetic spectrum at all wavelengths, from radio waves to gamma rays. Most of the energy is spread over frequencies outside the visual range and so the majority of the flares are not visible to the naked eye and must be observed with special instruments. Flares occur in active regions around sunspots, where intense magnetic fields penetrate the photosphere to link the corona to the solar interior.\nFlares are powered by the sudden (timescales of minutes to tens of minutes) release of magnetic energy stored in the corona. The same energy releases may produce coronal mass ejections (CMEs), although the relationship between CMEs and flares is still not well understood.\n\nX-rays and UV radiation emitted by solar flares can affect Earth's ionosphere and disrupt long-range radio communications. Direct radio emission at decimetric wavelengths may disturb the operation of radars and other devices that use those frequencies.\n\nSolar flares were first observed on the Sun by Richard Christopher Carrington and independently by Richard Hodgson in 1859 as localized visible brightenings of small areas within a sunspot group. Stellar flares can be inferred by looking at the lightcurves produced from the telescope or satellite data of variety of other stars.\n\nThe frequency of occurrence of solar flares varies, from several per day when the Sun is particularly \"active\" to less than one every week when the Sun is \"quiet\", following the 11-year cycle (the solar cycle). Large flares are less frequent than smaller ones.\n\nFlares occur when accelerated charged particles, mainly electrons, interact with the plasma medium. Evidence suggests that the phenomenon of magnetic reconnection leads to this copious acceleration of charged particles.\nOn the Sun, magnetic reconnection may happen on solar arcades – a series of closely occurring loops following magnetic lines of force. These lines of force quickly reconnect into a lower arcade of loops leaving a helix of magnetic field unconnected to the rest of the arcade. The sudden release of energy in this reconnection is the origin of the particle acceleration. The unconnected magnetic helical field and the material that it contains may violently expand outwards forming a coronal mass ejection. This also explains why solar flares typically erupt from active regions on the Sun where magnetic fields are much stronger.\n\nAlthough there is a general agreement on the source of a flare's energy, the mechanisms involved are still not well understood. It is not clear how the magnetic energy is transformed into the kinetic energy of the particles, nor is it known how some particles can be accelerated to the GeV range (10 electron volt) and beyond. There are also some inconsistencies regarding the total number of accelerated particles, which sometimes seems to be greater than the total number in the coronal loop. Scientists are unable to forecast flares.\n\nThe classification system for solar flares uses the letters A, B, C, M or X, according to the peak flux in watts per square metre (W/m) of X-rays with wavelengths 100 to 800 picometre, as measured at the Earth by the GOES spacecraft.\n\nThe strength of an event within a class is noted by a numerical suffix ranging from 1 to 9, which is also the factor for that event within the class. Hence, an X2 flare is twice the strength of an X1 flare, an X3 flare is three times as powerful as an X1, and only 50% more powerful than an X2. An X2 is four times more powerful than an M5 flare.\n\nAn earlier flare classification was based on Hα spectral observations. The scheme uses both the intensity and emitting surface. The classification in intensity is qualitative, referring to the flares as: faint (f), normal (n) or brilliant (b). The emitting surface is measured in terms of \"millionths\" of the hemisphere and is described below. (The total hemisphere area \"A\" = 15.5 × 10 km.)\n\nA flare then is classified taking S or a number that represents its size and a letter that represents its peak intensity, v.g.: Sn is a \"normal sunflare\".\n\nSolar flares strongly influence the local space weather in the vicinity of the Earth. They can produce streams of highly energetic particles in the solar wind or stellar wind, known as a solar proton event. These particles can impact the Earth's magnetosphere (see main article at geomagnetic storm), and present radiation hazards to spacecraft and astronauts. Additionally, massive solar flares are sometimes accompanied by coronal mass ejections (CMEs) which can trigger geomagnetic storms that have been known to disable satellites and knock out terrestrial electric power grids for extended periods of time.\n\nThe soft X-ray flux of X class flares increases the ionization of the upper atmosphere, which can interfere with short-wave radio communication and can heat the outer atmosphere and thus increase the drag on low orbiting satellites, leading to orbital decay. Energetic particles in the magnetosphere contribute to the aurora borealis and aurora australis. Energy in the form of hard x-rays can be damaging to spacecraft electronics and are generally the result of large plasma ejection in the upper chromosphere.\n\nThe radiation risks posed by solar flares are a major concern in discussions of a manned mission to Mars, the Moon, or other planets. Energetic protons can pass through the human body, causing biochemical damage, presenting a hazard to astronauts during interplanetary travel. Some kind of physical or magnetic shielding would be required to protect the astronauts. Most proton storms take at least two hours from the time of visual detection to reach Earth's orbit. A solar flare on January 20, 2005 released the highest concentration of protons ever directly measured, giving astronauts as little as 15 minutes to reach shelter.\n\nFlares produce radiation across the electromagnetic spectrum, although with different intensity. They are not very intense in visible light, but they can be very bright at particular atomic lines. They normally produce bremsstrahlung in X-rays and synchrotron radiation in radio.\n\nRichard Carrington observed a flare for the first time on 1 September 1859 projecting the image produced by an optical telescope through a broad-band filter. It was an extraordinarily intense \"white light flare\". Since flares produce copious amounts of radiation at Hα, adding a narrow ( ≈1 Å) passband filter centered at this wavelength to the optical telescope, allows the observation of not very bright flares with small telescopes. For years Hα was the main, if not the only, source of information about solar flares. Other passband filters are also used.\n\nDuring World War II, on February 25 and 26, 1942, British radar operators observed radiation that Stanley Hey interpreted as solar emission. Their discovery did not go public until the end of the conflict. The same year Southworth also observed the Sun in radio, but as with Hey, his observations were only known after 1945. In 1943 Grote Reber was the first to report radioastronomical observations of the Sun at 160 MHz. The fast development of radioastronomy revealed new peculiarities of the solar activity like \"storms\" and \"bursts\" related to the flares. Today ground-based radiotelescopes observe the Sun from c. 15 MHz up to 400 GHz.\n\nSince the beginning of space exploration, telescopes have been sent to space, where they work at wavelengths shorter than UV, which are completely absorbed by the atmosphere, and where flares may be very bright. Since the 1970s, the GOES series of satellites observe the Sun in \"soft\" X-rays, and their observations became the \"standard measure\" of flares, diminishing the importance of the Hα classification. \"Hard\" X-rays were observed by many different instruments, the most important today being the Reuven Ramaty High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager (RHESSI). Nonetheless, UV observations are today the \"stars\" of solar imaging with their incredible fine details that reveal the complexity of the solar corona. Spacecraft may also bring radio detectors at extremely long wavelengths (as long as a few kilometers) that cannot propagate through the ionosphere.\n\n\n\nThe following spacecraft missions have flares as their main observation target.\n\nIn addition to these solar observing facilities, many non-solar astronomical satellites observe flares either intentionally (e.g., NuSTAR), or simply because the penetrating hard radiations coming from a flare can\nreadily penetrate most forms of shielding.\n\nThe most powerful flare ever observed was the first one to be observed, on September 1, 1859, and was reported by British astronomer Richard Carrington and independently by an observer named Richard Hodgson. The event is named the Solar storm of 1859, or the \"Carrington event\". The flare was visible to a naked eye (in \"white light\"), and produced stunning auroras down to tropical latitudes such as Cuba or Hawaii, and set telegraph systems on fire. The flare left a trace in Greenland ice in the form of nitrates and beryllium-10, which allow its strength to be measured today. Cliver and Svalgaard reconstructed the effects of this flare and compared with other events of the last 150 years. In their words: \"While the 1859 event has close rivals or superiors in each of the above categories of space weather activity, it is the only documented event of the last ∼150 years that appears at or near the top of all of the lists.\"\n\nThe ultra-fast coronal mass ejection of August 1972 is suspected of triggering magnetic fuses on naval mines during the Vietnam War, and would have been a life-threatening event to Apollo astronauts if it had occurred during a mission to the Moon.\n\nIn modern times, the largest solar flare measured with instruments occurred on November 4, 2003. This event saturated the GOES detectors, and because of this its classification is only approximate. Initially, extrapolating the GOES curve, it was estimated to be X28. Later analysis of the ionospheric effects suggested increasing this estimate to X45. This event produced the first clear evidence of a new spectral component above 100 GHz.\n\nOther large solar flares also occurred on April 2, 2001 (X20), October 28, 2003 (X17.2 and 10), September 7, 2005 (X17), February 17, 2011 (X2), August 9, 2011 (X6.9), March 7, 2012 (X5.4), July 6, 2012 (X1.1). On July 6, 2012, a solar storm hit just after midnight UK time, when an X1.1 solar flare fired out of the AR1515 sunspot. Another X1.4 solar flare from AR 1520 region of the Sun, second in the week, reached the Earth on July 15, 2012 with a geomagnetic storm of G1–G2 level. A X1.8-class flare was recorded on October 24, 2012. There has been major solar flare activity in early 2013, notably within a 48-hour period starting on May 12, 2013, a total of four X-class solar flares were emitted ranging from an X1.2 and upwards of an X3.2, the latter of which was one of the largest year 2013 flares. Departing sunspot complex AR2035-AR2046 erupted on April 25, 2014 at 0032 UT, producing a strong X1.3-class solar flare and an HF communications blackout on the day-side of Earth. NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory recorded a flash of extreme ultraviolet radiation from the explosion. The Solar Dynamics Observatory recorded an X9.3-class flare at around 1200 UTC on September 6, 2017.\n\nFlare sprays are a type of eruption associated with solar flares. They involve faster ejections of material than eruptive prominences, and reach velocities of 20 to 2000 kilometers per second.\n\nCurrent methods of flare prediction are problematic, and there is no certain indication that an active region on the Sun will produce a flare. However, many properties of sunspots and active regions correlate with flaring. For example, magnetically complex regions (based on line-of-sight magnetic field) called delta spots produce the largest flares. A simple scheme of sunspot classification due to McIntosh, or related to fractal complexity. is commonly used as a starting point for flare prediction. Predictions are usually stated in terms of probabilities for occurrence of flares above M or X GOES class within 24 or 48 hours. The U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) issues forecasts of this kind.\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "13730515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13730515", "title": "Southeastern Indochina dry evergreen forests", "text": "Southeastern Indochina dry evergreen forests\n\nThe Southeastern Indochina dry evergreen forests are a tropical dry broadleaf forest ecoregion of Indochina.\n\nThe ecoregion covers an area of , extending across portions of Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam. \n\nThe Southeastern Indochina dry evergreen forests occupy the lower portion of the Mekong Basin, where they are intertwined with the Central Indochina dry forests. The Southern Annamites montane rain forests border the dry evergreen forests on the east, occupying the higher elevations of the Annamite Range. To the south, the Indochina mangroves lie between tropical seasonal forests and the South China Sea. The Tonle Sap-Mekong peat swamp forests and Tonle Sap freshwater swamp forests lie to the southeast, in the seasonally and permanently flooded lowlands along the Tonle Sap and Mekong rivers and Tonle Sap Lake.\n\nThe Southeastern Indochina dry evergreen forests are one of three dry broadleaf forest ecoregions with predominantly evergreen trees; trees in dry broadleaf forests typically lose their leaves during the dry season.\n\nThe ecoregion is home to many large mammals, including the Asian elephant \"(Elephas maximus)\", tiger \"(Panthera tigris)\", previously one of two known populations of the now extinct Javan rhinoceros \"(Rhinoceros sondaicus annamiticus)\", Eld's Deer \"(Cervus eldi)\", banteng \"(Bos javanicus)\", gaur \"(Bos gaurus)\", clouded leopard \"(Pardofelis nebulosa),\" leopard \"(Panthera pardus)\", Malayan sun bear \"(Ursus malayanus)\", and khting-vor \"(Pseudonovibos spiralis)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1248472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1248472", "title": "TIMED", "text": "TIMED\n\nThe TIMED (Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics) is an orbiter mission dedicated to study the dynamics of the Mesosphere and Lower Thermosphere (MLT) portion of the Earth's atmosphere. The mission was launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California on December 7, 2001 aboard a Delta II rocket launch vehicle. The project is sponsored and managed by NASA, while the spacecraft was designed and assembled by the Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins University. The mission has been extended several times, and has now collected data over an entire solar cycle, which helps in its goal to differentiate the Sun's effects on the atmosphere from other effects.\n\nThe Mesosphere and Lower Thermosphere (MLT) region of the atmosphere to be studied by TIMED is located between 60–180 km above the Earth's surface where energy from solar radiation is first deposited into the atmosphere. This can have profound effects on Earth's upper atmospheric regions, particularly during the peak of the Sun's 11-year solar cycle when the greatest amounts of its energy are being released. Understanding these interactions is also important for our understanding of various subjects in geophysics, meteorology, and atmospheric science, as solar radiation is one of the primary driving forces behind atmospheric tides. Changes in the MLT can also affect modern satellite and radio telecommunications.\n\nThe spacecraft payload consists of the following four main instruments:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57814128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57814128", "title": "The Coffee Planter of Saint Domingo", "text": "The Coffee Planter of Saint Domingo\n\nThe Coffee planter of Saint Domingo is a 1789 manual for building a coffee plantation, written by Pierre Joseph Laborie, a planter from Saint Domingue. Laborie intended the book for novice English planters in Jamaica, and explained the operation of a coffee plantation in great detail. Laborie provided a model for operating a coffee plantation. He established a division of labor using three criteria: skill, class and age. Skilled labor involved carpenters, masons and saddlers. Unskilled labor involved field workers. Laborie proposed appointing slaves to supervisory positions. He also divided labor by age. Small children were weeding and pruning. Young adolescents between the ages of 12 and 16 were weeding and gathering coffee. Adults did the field work. The elderly supervised children and guarded poultry and provisions.\n\nThe book is divided into four chapters and an appendix, and includes 22 plates.\n\nOf the choice of Ground, and of whatever relates to the grubbing of it; the first plantations, and more particularly the accessory articles.\n\nOf the settlements; viz. Constructions, Buildings, Work Houses, Engines, Platforms, Dwelling and Out-Houses, Negro Houses, and Stables–and first of the Preparation of Coffee for the Market\n\nOf the Culture of Coffee Tree during the several Periods of its duration\n\nOf the Government and Care of the Negroes\n\nHere Laborie provides his view on the essence of the philosophical and political system of the planter:It is necessary then, to turn this our property to the best account. We must extract from the negroe all the work he can reasonably perform, and use very means to prolong his life. If interest direct the first, humanity enjoins the second, and here they go hand in hand. Happy accord! the consciousness of which forms the whole philosophical and political system of the planter; all the magic of the supreme power of one chief, and of that entire submission of the many, which would still have subsisted unimpaired in this island, had not the fatal French revolution introduced principles, incompatible with the conditions of the country.\n\nA review of the government, constitution , laws and state of St. Domingo, before the revolution, and under the British government.\n"}
{"id": "36210163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36210163", "title": "The Natural History of Ireland", "text": "The Natural History of Ireland\n\nThe Natural History of Ireland is a four volume work by William Thompson. The first three volumes were published by Reeve and Benham, London between 1849 and 1851. Volume 4 was published by Henry G. Bohn, London in 1856. \n\"The Natural History of Ireland\" is very influential of later developments.\n\nThe parts are:\n\n\nThe \"Natural History of Ireland\" was the first attempt to produce an account of the fauna of Ireland. \"With so much already done pictorially and descriptively, on the subject of British ornithology, it may be considered superfluous to treat of the birds of Ireland in a separate work, but, in the author's opinion, every country should possess a Natural History specially appertaining to itself. In the publications referred to, the birds of Ireland have been but briefly indicated, — a species generally dis- missed in a single line, and so much appearing only in two works; — those of Sir Win. Jardine and Mr. Yarrell\".\n\nIn 1837 Robert Templeton published a scientific paper entitled \"Irish Vertebrate Animals\", selected from the Papers of the late John Templeton in the Magazine of Natural History . This is the first scientific Irish list of Ireland's bird, mammal and fish.\n\nText on the bird species, Thompson’s main interest, is a mixture of his own observations (some of which he had previously published in \"Annals and Magazine of Natural History\"), and as quotations, those of British authors and his many correspondents in Ireland. William Sinclaire, a merchant in Belfast and a bird collector, John Vandeleur Stewart and Richard Langtry an estate owner at Milltown near Belfast figure prominently. Reference is also made to specimens held by the Belfast Museum, Dublin University Museum and the Royal Dublin Society Museum. There is frequent mention of bird preservers.\n\nThe birds are placed in the higher groups proposed by Pierre Barrère and adopted by early 19th century authors.\n\nThe work is not illustrated \"Figures of Irish birds are not required, as all the species are included, down to the period of publication (to mention British works only) in Selby's \"Illustrations of British Ornithology\", Gould's \"Birds of Europe\" Volume 1, \nVolume 2, \nVolume 3,\nVolume 4,\nVolume 5 ;\nand the \"History of British Birds\" by Bewick Bewick volume 1, Bewick volume 2 and Yarrell [1843], respectively.Yarrell Volume 1,\nVolume 2,\nVolume 3\nColoured figures of many of the species are also given in Sir Wm. Jardine's work on British Birds and in Mr. Macgillivray's , the heads, at least, of nearly all the land birds are represented\".\n\nThe style is literary. Note that the quote is verbatim, the verification complete and the museum location given and that Temminck's French text has been translated and that Thompson knows that this is the first British Isles record. From page 364:\n\nTHE GREAT SPOTTED CUCKOO. \n\"Cuculus glandarius\", Linn. \nHas once been obtained.\n\nA letter from A. Crighton, Esq., of Clifden, Connemara, to Mr. R, Ball gives the following information respecting it:—-\n\"The cuckoo, pursued by hawks, was taken by two persons, walking on the island of Omagh. It flew into a hole in a stone fence or wall, was caught alive, and lived for four days on potatoes and water. The inhabitants of this country had never seen any bird like it before, and as they are constantly in the habit of fishing at Bofin and Arran Islands, if the bird were to be met with, no doubt they would have recognised it. The bird when chased by the hawks, appeared fatigued, weak, and emaciated, as though it had taken a long flight, as woodcocks and other birds of passage do on first arrival.\" The month of March, 1842 is said to have been the time of its capture. On being sent to Dublin to be preserved, an excellent coloured drawing of it, the size of life, was kindly made by Miss Battersby, and forwarded for my acceptance: the plumage represented agrees best with that of the adult bird, as described by Temminck. The specimen has subsequently been obtained by Mr. Ball for the museum of Trinity College Dublin. It is the only one known to have visited the British Islands.\nAccording to Temminck (part 3, p. 277) the northern parts of Africa seem to be the chief abode of this bird, which occasionally visits southern Europe—Spain, France (south of), Italy, &c. In Germany also, it has been met with in different instances.\n\"Mr Gould, in his well known work on the Birds of Europe, says, that the true habitat of this species is the wooded districts, skirting the sultry plains of North Africa, but those that pass the Mediterranean, find a congenial climate in Spain and Italy. Opportunities are still wanting to confirm the most interesting of its habits.\" *\n\nInvertebrata\nIn this section the editors of Volume 4 (Dickie,Garrett and Patterson) were assisted by two of its contributors Robert Ball in Dublin and George Crawford Hyndman in Belfast who had supplied Thompson with information on Invertebrates . Alexander Henry Haliday wrote a short section on insects which was limited to the number of Irish species in each Order.William Henry Harvey, George James Allman and Joshua Alder are prominent in the text. Invertebrata is part based on Robert Templeton's 1836 text A catalogue of the species annulose animals and of rayed ones found in Ireland as selected from the papers of the late J. Templeton Esq. of Cranmore with localities, descriptions and illustrations. \"Magazine of Natural History\" 9: 233-240; 301-305; 41-421; 466-472.There are two lady contributors - Miss Hancock (sister of Albany Hancock) and Mary Ball.\nThompson kept his notes for \"The Natural History of Ireland\" in envelopes. These contained notes made at various times, letters, or extracts from letters, references to his personal journals or to his published papers, to books, to scientific periodicals, or to the transactions of societies (many foreign). Small envelopes contained notes on species. These were placed in larger envelopes for genera (also containing notes on genera). In turn these were placed in envelopes for families (containing notes on families). The families, genera, and species were arranged in regular sequence so that any particular one could immediately be found. The notes were written on paper \"of the most miscellaneous description ; and occasionally on scraps so small that six or eight lines were crowded into a slip not exceeding an inch in breadth\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3966381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3966381", "title": "Turbopause", "text": "Turbopause\n\nThe turbopause marks the altitude in the Earth's atmosphere below which turbulent mixing dominates. The region below the turbopause is known as the homosphere, where the chemical constituents are well mixed and display identical height distributions; in other words, the chemical composition of the atmosphere remains constant in this region for chemical species which have long mean residence times. Highly reactive chemicals tend to exhibit great concentration variability throughout the atmosphere, whereas unreactive species will exhibit more homogeneous concentrations. The region above the turbopause is the heterosphere, where molecular diffusion dominates and the chemical composition of the atmosphere varies according to chemical species.\n\nThe turbopause lies near the mesopause, at the intersection of the mesosphere and the thermosphere, at an altitude of roughly 100 km.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33501", "title": "White dwarf", "text": "White dwarf\n\nA white dwarf, also called a degenerate dwarf, is a stellar core remnant composed mostly of electron-degenerate matter. A white dwarf is very dense: its mass is comparable to that of the Sun, while its volume is comparable to that of Earth. A white dwarf's faint luminosity comes from the emission of stored thermal energy; no fusion takes place in a white dwarf wherein mass is converted to energy. The nearest known white dwarf is Sirius B, at 8.6 light years, the smaller component of the Sirius binary star. There are currently thought to be eight white dwarfs among the hundred star systems nearest the Sun. The unusual faintness of white dwarfs was first recognized in 1910. The name \"white dwarf\" was coined by Willem Luyten in 1922.\n\nWhite dwarfs are thought to be the final evolutionary state of stars whose mass is not high enough to become a neutron star, that of about 10 solar masses. This includes over 97% of the other stars in the Milky Way. After the hydrogen-fusing period of a main-sequence star of low or medium mass ends, such a star will expand to a red giant during which it fuses helium to carbon and oxygen in its core by the triple-alpha process. If a red giant has insufficient mass to generate the core temperatures required to fuse carbon (around 1 billion K), an inert mass of carbon and oxygen will build up at its center. After such a star sheds its outer layers and forms a planetary nebula, it will leave behind a core, which is the remnant white dwarf. Usually, white dwarfs are composed of carbon and oxygen. If the mass of the progenitor is between 8 and 10.5 solar masses (), the core temperature will be sufficient to fuse carbon but not neon, in which case an oxygen–neon–magnesium white dwarf may form. Stars of very low mass will not be able to fuse helium, hence, a helium white dwarf may form by mass loss in binary systems.\n\nThe material in a white dwarf no longer undergoes fusion reactions, so the star has no source of energy. As a result, it cannot support itself by the heat generated by fusion against gravitational collapse, but is supported only by electron degeneracy pressure, causing it to be extremely dense. The physics of degeneracy yields a maximum mass for a non-rotating white dwarf, the Chandrasekhar limit—approximately 1.44 times of —beyond which it cannot be supported by electron degeneracy pressure. A carbon-oxygen white dwarf that approaches this mass limit, typically by mass transfer from a companion star, may explode as a type Ia supernova via a process known as carbon detonation; SN 1006 is thought to be a famous example.\n\nA white dwarf is very hot when it forms, but because it has no source of energy, it will gradually radiate its energy and cool. This means that its radiation, which initially has a high color temperature, will lessen and redden with time. Over a very long time, a white dwarf will cool and its material will begin to crystallize, starting with the core. The star's low temperature means it will no longer emit significant heat or light, and it will become a cold black dwarf. Because the length of time it takes for a white dwarf to reach this state is calculated to be longer than the current age of the universe (approximately 13.8 billion years), it is thought that no black dwarfs yet exist. The oldest white dwarfs still radiate at temperatures of a few thousand kelvins.\n\nThe first white dwarf discovered was in the triple star system of 40 Eridani, which contains the relatively bright main sequence star 40 Eridani A, orbited at a distance by the closer binary system of the white dwarf 40 Eridani B and the main sequence red dwarf 40 Eridani C. The pair 40 Eridani B/C was discovered by William Herschel on 31 January 1783. In 1910, Henry Norris Russell, Edward Charles Pickering and Williamina Fleming discovered that, despite being a dim star, 40 Eridani B was of spectral type A, or white. In 1939, Russell looked back on the discovery:\n\nI was visiting my friend and generous benefactor, Prof. Edward C. Pickering. With characteristic kindness, he had volunteered to have the spectra observed for all the stars—including comparison stars—which had been observed in the observations for stellar parallax which Hinks and I made at Cambridge, and I discussed. This piece of apparently routine work proved very fruitful—it led to the discovery that all the stars of very faint absolute magnitude were of spectral class M. In conversation on this subject (as I recall it), I asked Pickering about certain other faint stars, not on my list, mentioning in particular 40 Eridani B. Characteristically, he sent a note to the Observatory office and before long the answer came (I think from Mrs Fleming) that the spectrum of this star was A. I knew enough about it, even in these paleozoic days, to realize at once that there was an extreme inconsistency between what we would then have called \"possible\" values of the surface brightness and density. I must have shown that I was not only puzzled but crestfallen, at this exception to what looked like a very pretty rule of stellar characteristics; but Pickering smiled upon me, and said: \"It is just these exceptions that lead to an advance in our knowledge\", and so the white dwarfs entered the realm of study!\n\nThe spectral type of 40 Eridani B was officially described in 1914 by Walter Adams.\n\nThe white dwarf companion of Sirius, Sirius B, was next to be discovered. During the nineteenth century, positional measurements of some stars became precise enough to measure small changes in their location. Friedrich Bessel used position measurements to determine that the stars Sirius (α Canis Majoris) and Procyon (α Canis Minoris) were changing their positions periodically. In 1844 he predicted that both stars had unseen companions:\n\nIf we were to regard \"Sirius\" and \"Procyon\" as double stars, the change of their motions would not surprise us; we should acknowledge them as necessary, and have only to investigate their amount by observation. But light is no real property of mass. The existence of numberless visible stars can prove nothing against the existence of numberless invisible ones.\n\nBessel roughly estimated the period of the companion of Sirius to be about half a century; C. A. F. Peters computed an orbit for it in 1851. It was not until 31 January 1862 that Alvan Graham Clark observed a previously unseen star close to Sirius, later identified as the predicted companion. Walter Adams announced in 1915 that he had found the spectrum of Sirius B to be similar to that of Sirius.\n\nIn 1917, Adriaan van Maanen discovered Van Maanen's Star, an isolated white dwarf. These three white dwarfs, the first discovered, are the so-called \"classical white dwarfs\". Eventually, many faint white stars were found which had high proper motion, indicating that they could be suspected to be low-luminosity stars close to the Earth, and hence white dwarfs. Willem Luyten appears to have been the first to use the term \"white dwarf\" when he examined this class of stars in 1922; the term was later popularized by Arthur Stanley Eddington. Despite these suspicions, the first non-classical white dwarf was not definitely identified until the 1930s. 18 white dwarfs had been discovered by 1939. Luyten and others continued to search for white dwarfs in the 1940s. By 1950, over a hundred were known, and by 1999, over 2,000 were known. Since then the Sloan Digital Sky Survey has found over 9,000 white dwarfs, mostly new.\n\nAlthough white dwarfs are known with estimated masses as low as 0.17 and as high as 1.33 , the mass distribution is strongly peaked at 0.6 , and the majority lie between 0.5 and 0.7 . The estimated radii of observed white dwarfs are typically 0.8–2 % the radius of the Sun; this is comparable to the Earth's radius of approximately 0.9% solar radius. A white dwarf, then, packs mass comparable to the Sun's into a volume that is typically a million times smaller than the Sun's; the average density of matter in a white dwarf must therefore be, very roughly, 1,000,000 times greater than the average density of the Sun, or approximately 10 g/cm, or 1 tonne per cubic centimetre. A typical white dwarf has a density of between 10 and 10 g/cm. White dwarfs are composed of one of the densest forms of matter known, surpassed only by other compact stars such as neutron stars, black holes and, hypothetically, quark stars.\n\nWhite dwarfs were found to be extremely dense soon after their discovery. If a star is in a binary system, as is the case for Sirius B or 40 Eridani B, it is possible to estimate its mass from observations of the binary orbit. This was done for Sirius B by 1910, yielding a mass estimate of , which compares well with a more modern estimate of . Since hotter bodies radiate more energy than colder ones, a star's surface brightness can be estimated from its effective surface temperature, and that from its spectrum. If the star's distance is known, its absolute luminosity can also be estimated. From the absolute luminosity and distance, the star's surface area and its radius can be calculated. Reasoning of this sort led to the realization, puzzling to astronomers at the time, that Sirius B and 40 Eridani B must be very dense. When Ernst Öpik estimated the density of a number of visual binary stars in 1916, he found that 40 Eridani B had a density of over 25,000 times the Sun's, which was so high that he called it \"impossible\". As Arthur Stanley Eddington put it later in 1927:\nWe learn about the stars by receiving and interpreting the messages which their light brings to us. The message of the Companion of Sirius when it was decoded ran: \"I am composed of material 3,000 times denser than anything you have ever come across; a ton of my material would be a little nugget that you could put in a matchbox.\" What reply can one make to such a message? The reply which most of us made in 1914 was—\"Shut up. Don't talk nonsense.\"\n\nAs Eddington pointed out in 1924, densities of this order implied that, according to the theory of general relativity, the light from Sirius B should be gravitationally redshifted. This was confirmed when Adams measured this redshift in 1925.\nSuch densities are possible because white dwarf material is not composed of atoms joined by chemical bonds, but rather consists of a plasma of unbound nuclei and electrons. There is therefore no obstacle to placing nuclei closer than normally allowed by electron orbitals limited by normal matter. Eddington wondered what would happen when this plasma cooled and the energy to keep the atoms ionized was no longer sufficient. This paradox was resolved by R. H. Fowler in 1926 by an application of the newly devised quantum mechanics. Since electrons obey the Pauli exclusion principle, no two electrons can occupy the same state, and they must obey Fermi–Dirac statistics, also introduced in 1926 to determine the statistical distribution of particles which satisfy the Pauli exclusion principle. At zero temperature, therefore, electrons can not all occupy the lowest-energy, or \"ground\", state; some of them would have to occupy higher-energy states, forming a band of lowest-available energy states, the \"Fermi sea\". This state of the electrons, called \"degenerate\", meant that a white dwarf could cool to zero temperature and still possess high energy.\n\nCompression of a white dwarf will increase the number of electrons in a given volume. Applying the Pauli exclusion principle, this will increase the kinetic energy of the electrons, thereby increasing the pressure. This \"electron degeneracy pressure\" supports a white dwarf against gravitational collapse. The pressure depends only on density and not on temperature. Degenerate matter is relatively compressible; this means that the density of a high-mass white dwarf is much greater than that of a low-mass white dwarf and that the radius of a white dwarf decreases as its mass increases.\n\nThe existence of a limiting mass that no white dwarf can exceed without collapsing to a neutron star is another consequence of being supported by electron degeneracy pressure. These masses were first published in 1929 by Wilhelm Anderson and in 1930 by Edmund C. Stoner. The modern value of the limit was first published in 1931 by Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar in his paper \"The Maximum Mass of Ideal White Dwarfs\". For a non-rotating white dwarf, it is equal to approximately , where is the average molecular weight per electron of the star. As the carbon-12 and oxygen-16 which predominantly compose a carbon-oxygen white dwarf both have atomic number equal to half their atomic weight, one should take equal to 2 for such a star, leading to the commonly quoted value of 1.4 . (Near the beginning of the 20th century, there was reason to believe that stars were composed chiefly of heavy elements, so, in his 1931 paper, Chandrasekhar set the average molecular weight per electron, , equal to 2.5, giving a limit of 0.91 .) Together with William Alfred Fowler, Chandrasekhar received the Nobel prize for this and other work in 1983. The limiting mass is now called the \"Chandrasekhar limit\".\n\nIf a white dwarf were to exceed the Chandrasekhar limit, and nuclear reactions did not take place, the pressure exerted by electrons would no longer be able to balance the force of gravity, and it would collapse into a denser object called a neutron star. Carbon-oxygen white dwarfs accreting mass from a neighboring star undergo a runaway nuclear fusion reaction, which leads to a Type Ia supernova explosion in which the white dwarf may be destroyed, before it reaches the limiting mass.\n\nNew research indicates that many white dwarfs—at least in certain types of galaxies—may not approach that limit by way of accretion. It has been postulated that at least some of the white dwarfs that become supernovae attain the necessary mass by colliding with one another. It may be that in elliptical galaxies such collisions are the major source of supernovae. This hypothesis is based on the fact that the X-rays produced by those galaxies are 30 to 50 times less than what is expected to be produced by type Ia supernovas of that galaxy as matter accretes on the white dwarf from its encircling companion. It has been concluded that no more than 5 percent of the supernovae in such galaxies could be created by the process of accretion onto white dwarfs. The significance of this finding is that there could be two types of supernovae, which could mean that the Chandrasekhar limit might not always apply in determining when a white dwarf goes supernova, given that two colliding white dwarfs could have a range of masses. This in turn would confuse efforts to use exploding white dwarfs as standard candles in determining distances.\n\nWhite dwarfs have low luminosity and therefore occupy a strip at the bottom of the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram, a graph of stellar luminosity versus color or temperature. They should not be confused with low-luminosity objects at the low-mass end of the main sequence, such as the hydrogen-fusing red dwarfs, whose cores are supported in part by thermal pressure, or the even lower-temperature brown dwarfs.\n\nThe relationship between the mass and radius of white dwarfs can be derived using an energy minimization argument. The energy of the white dwarf can be approximated by taking it to be the sum of its gravitational potential energy and kinetic energy. The gravitational potential energy of a unit mass piece of white dwarf, , will be on the order of , where is the gravitational constant, \"M\" is the mass of the white dwarf, and is its radius.\n\nThe kinetic energy of the unit mass, , will primarily come from the motion of electrons, so it will be approximately , where is the average electron momentum, is the electron mass, and is the number of electrons per unit mass. Since the electrons are degenerate, we can estimate to be on the order of the uncertainty in momentum, , given by the uncertainty principle, which says that is on the order of the reduced Planck constant, \"ħ\". will be on the order of the average distance between electrons, which will be approximately , i.e., the reciprocal of the cube root of the number density, , of electrons per unit volume. Since there are electrons in the white dwarf, where is the star's mass and its volume is on the order of , will be on the order of .\n\nSolving for the kinetic energy per unit mass, \"E\", we find that\n\nThe white dwarf will be at equilibrium when its total energy, , is minimized. At this point, the kinetic and gravitational potential energies should be comparable, so we may derive a rough mass-radius relationship by equating their magnitudes:\n\nSolving this for the radius, , gives\n\nDropping , which depends only on the composition of the white dwarf, and the universal constants leaves us with a relationship between mass and radius:\n\ni.e., the radius of a white dwarf is inversely proportional to the cube root of its mass.\n\nSince this analysis uses the non-relativistic formula for the kinetic energy, it is non-relativistic. If we wish to analyze the situation where the electron velocity in a white dwarf is close to the speed of light, , we should replace by the extreme relativistic approximation for the kinetic energy. With this substitution, we find\n\nIf we equate this to the magnitude of , we find that drops out and the mass, , is forced to be\n\nTo interpret this result, observe that as we add mass to a white dwarf, its radius will decrease, so, by the uncertainty principle, the momentum, and hence the velocity, of its electrons will increase. As this velocity approaches , the extreme relativistic analysis becomes more exact, meaning that the mass  of the white dwarf must approach a limiting mass of . Therefore, no white dwarf can be heavier than the limiting mass , or 1.4 .\n\nFor a more accurate computation of the mass-radius relationship and limiting mass of a white dwarf, one must compute the equation of state which describes the relationship between density and pressure in the white dwarf material. If the density and pressure are both set equal to functions of the radius from the center of the star, the system of equations consisting of the hydrostatic equation together with the equation of state can then be solved to find the structure of the white dwarf at equilibrium. In the non-relativistic case, we will still find that the radius is inversely proportional to the cube root of the mass. Relativistic corrections will alter the result so that the radius becomes zero at a finite value of the mass. This is the limiting value of the mass—called the \"Chandrasekhar limit\"—at which the white dwarf can no longer be supported by electron degeneracy pressure. The graph on the right shows the result of such a computation. It shows how radius varies with mass for non-relativistic (blue curve) and relativistic (green curve) models of a white dwarf. Both models treat the white dwarf as a cold Fermi gas in hydrostatic equilibrium. The average molecular weight per electron, , has been set equal to 2. Radius is measured in standard solar radii and mass in standard solar masses.\n\nThese computations all assume that the white dwarf is non-rotating. If the white dwarf is rotating, the equation of hydrostatic equilibrium must be modified to take into account the centrifugal pseudo-force arising from working in a rotating frame. For a uniformly rotating white dwarf, the limiting mass increases only slightly. If the star is allowed to rotate nonuniformly, and viscosity is neglected, then, as was pointed out by Fred Hoyle in 1947, there is no limit to the mass for which it is possible for a model white dwarf to be in static equilibrium. Not all of these model stars will be dynamically stable.\n\nThe degenerate matter that makes up the bulk of a white dwarf has a very low opacity, because any absorption of a photon requires that an electron must transition to a higher empty state, which may not be possible as the energy of the photon may not be a match for the possible quantum states available to that electron, hence radiative heat transfer within a white dwarf is low; it does, however, have a high thermal conductivity. As a result, the interior of the white dwarf maintains a uniform temperature, approximately 10 K. An outer shell of non-degenerate matter cools from approximately 10 K to 10 K. This matter radiates roughly as a black body. A white dwarf remains visible for a long time, as its tenuous outer atmosphere of normal matter begins to radiate at about 10 K, upon formation, while its greater interior mass is at 10 K but cannot radiate through its normal matter shell.\n\nThe visible radiation emitted by white dwarfs varies over a wide color range, from the blue-white color of an O-type main sequence star to the red of an M-type red dwarf. White dwarf effective surface temperatures extend from over 150,000 K to barely under 4,000 K. In accordance with the Stefan–Boltzmann law, luminosity increases with increasing surface temperature; this surface temperature range corresponds to a luminosity from over 100 times the Sun's to under 1/10,000 that of the Sun's. Hot white dwarfs, with surface temperatures in excess of 30,000 K, have been observed to be sources of soft (i.e., lower-energy) X-rays. This enables the composition and structure of their atmospheres to be studied by soft X-ray and extreme ultraviolet observations.\n\nWhite dwarfs also radiate neutrinos through the Urca process.\nAs was explained by Leon Mestel in 1952, unless the white dwarf accretes matter from a companion star or other source, its radiation comes from its stored heat, which is not replenished. White dwarfs have an extremely small surface area to radiate this heat from, so they cool gradually, remaining hot for a long time. As a white dwarf cools, its surface temperature decreases, the radiation which it emits reddens, and its luminosity decreases. Since the white dwarf has no energy sink other than radiation, it follows that its cooling slows with time. The rate of cooling has been estimated for a carbon white dwarf of 0.59 with a hydrogen atmosphere. After initially taking approximately 1.5 billion years to cool to a surface temperature of 7,140 K, cooling approximately 500 more kelvins to 6,590 K takes around 0.3 billion years, but the next two steps of around 500 kelvins (to 6,030 K and 5,550 K) take first 0.4 and then 1.1 billion years.\n\nMost observed white dwarfs have relatively high surface temperatures, between 8,000 K and 40,000 K. A white dwarf, though, spends more of its lifetime at cooler temperatures than at hotter temperatures, so we should expect that there are more cool white dwarfs than hot white dwarfs. Once we adjust for the selection effect that hotter, more luminous white dwarfs are easier to observe, we do find that decreasing the temperature range examined results in finding more white dwarfs. This trend stops when we reach extremely cool white dwarfs; few white dwarfs are observed with surface temperatures below 4,000 K, and one of the coolest so far observed, WD 0346+246, has a surface temperature of approximately 3,900 K. The reason for this is that the Universe's age is finite; there has not been enough time for white dwarfs to cool below this temperature. The white dwarf luminosity function can therefore be used to find the time when stars started to form in a region; an estimate for the age of our Galactic disk found in this way is 8 billion years. A white dwarf will eventually, in many trillions of years, cool and become a non-radiating \"black dwarf\" in approximate thermal equilibrium with its surroundings and with the cosmic background radiation. No black dwarfs are thought to exist yet.\n\nAlthough white dwarf material is initially plasma—a fluid composed of nuclei and electrons—it was theoretically predicted in the 1960s that at a late stage of cooling, it should crystallize, starting at its center. The crystal structure is thought to be a body-centered cubic lattice. In 1995 it was suggested that asteroseismological observations of pulsating white dwarfs yielded a potential test of the crystallization theory, and in 2004, observations were made that suggested approximately 90% of the mass of BPM 37093 had crystallized. Other work gives a crystallized mass fraction of between 32% and 82%. As a white dwarf core undergoes crystallization into a solid phase, latent heat is released which provides a source of thermal energy that delays its cooling.\n\nLow-mass helium white dwarfs (mass ), often referred to as \"extremely low-mass white dwarfs, ELM WDs\" are formed in binary systems. As a result of their hydrogen-rich envelopes, residual hydrogen burning via the CNO cycle may keep these white dwarfs hot on a long timescale. In addition, they remain in a bloated proto-white dwarf stage for up to 2 Gyr before they reach the cooling track.\n\nAlthough most white dwarfs are thought to be composed of carbon and oxygen, spectroscopy typically shows that their emitted light comes from an atmosphere which is observed to be either hydrogen or helium dominated. The dominant element is usually at least 1,000 times more abundant than all other elements. As explained by Schatzman in the 1940s, the high surface gravity is thought to cause this purity by gravitationally separating the atmosphere so that heavy elements are below and the lighter above. This atmosphere, the only part of the white dwarf visible to us, is thought to be the top of an envelope which is a residue of the star's envelope in the AGB phase and may also contain material accreted from the interstellar medium. The envelope is believed to consist of a helium-rich layer with mass no more than 1/100 of the star's total mass, which, if the atmosphere is hydrogen-dominated, is overlain by a hydrogen-rich layer with mass approximately 1/10,000 of the stars total mass.\n\nAlthough thin, these outer layers determine the thermal evolution of the white dwarf. The degenerate electrons in the bulk of a white dwarf conduct heat well. Most of a white dwarf's mass is therefore at almost the same temperature (isothermal), and it is also hot: a white dwarf with surface temperature between 8,000 K and 16,000 K will have a core temperature between approximately 5,000,000 K and 20,000,000 K. The white dwarf is kept from cooling very quickly only by its outer layers' opacity to radiation.\nThe first attempt to classify white dwarf spectra appears to have been by G. P. Kuiper in 1941, and various classification schemes have been proposed and used since then. The system currently in use was introduced by Edward M. Sion, Jesse L. Greenstein and their coauthors in 1983 and has been subsequently revised several times. It classifies a spectrum by a symbol which consists of an initial D, a letter describing the primary feature of the spectrum followed by an optional sequence of letters describing secondary features of the spectrum (as shown in the adjacent table), and a temperature index number, computed by dividing 50,400 K by the effective temperature. For example:\n\nThe symbols ? and : may also be used if the correct classification is uncertain.\n\nWhite dwarfs whose primary spectral classification is DA have hydrogen-dominated atmospheres. They make up the majority, approximately 80%, of all observed white dwarfs. The next class in number is of DBs, approximately 16%. The hot, above 15,000 K, DQ class (roughly 0.1%) have carbon-dominated atmospheres. Those classified as DB, DC, DO, DZ, and cool DQ have helium-dominated atmospheres. Assuming that carbon and metals are not present, which spectral classification is seen depends on the effective temperature. Between approximately 100,000 K to 45,000 K, the spectrum will be classified DO, dominated by singly ionized helium. From 30,000 K to 12,000 K, the spectrum will be DB, showing neutral helium lines, and below about 12,000 K, the spectrum will be featureless and classified DC..\n\nMolecular hydrogen (H) has been detected in spectra of the atmospheres of some white dwarfs.\n\nAround 25–33% of white dwarfs have metal lines in their spectra, which is notable because any heavy elements in a white dwarf should sink into the star's interior in just a small fraction of the star's lifetime. The prevailing explanation for metal-rich white dwarfs is that they have recently accreted rocky planetesimals. The bulk composition of the accreted object can be measured from the strengths of the metal lines. For example, a 2015 study of the white dwarf Ton 345 concluded that its metal abundances were consistent with those of a differentiated, rocky planet whose mantle had been eroded by the host star's wind during its asymptotic giant branch phase.\n\nMagnetic fields in white dwarfs with a strength at the surface of c. 1 million gauss (100 teslas) were predicted by P. M. S. Blackett in 1947 as a consequence of a physical law he had proposed which stated that an uncharged, rotating body should generate a magnetic field proportional to its angular momentum. This putative law, sometimes called the \"Blackett effect\", was never generally accepted, and by the 1950s even Blackett felt it had been refuted. In the 1960s, it was proposed that white dwarfs might have magnetic fields due to conservation of total surface magnetic flux that existed in its progenitor star phase. A surface magnetic field of c. 100 gauss (0.01 T) in the progenitor star would thus become a surface magnetic field of c. 100·100 = 1 million gauss (100 T) once the star's radius had shrunk by a factor of 100. The first magnetic white dwarf to be discovered was GJ 742 (also known as Grw +70 8247) which was identified by James Kemp, John Swedlund, John Landstreet and Roger Angel in 1970 to host a magnetic field by its emission of circularly polarized light. It is thought to have a surface field of approximately 300 million gauss (30 kT).\n\nSince 1970 magnetic fields have been discovered in well over 200 white dwarfs, ranging from to 10 gauss (0.2 T to 100 kT). The large number of presently known magnetic white dwarfs is due to the fact that most white dwarfs are identified by low-resolution spectroscopy, which is able to reveal the presence of a magnetic field of 1 megagauss or more. Thus the basic identification process also sometimes results in discovery of magnetic fields. It has been estimated that at least 10% of white dwarfs have fields in excess of 1 million gauss (100 T).\n\nThe highly magnetized white dwarf in the binary system AR Scorpii was identified in 2016 as the first pulsar in which the compact object is a white dwarf instead of a neutron star.\n\nThe magnetic fields in a white dwarf may allow for the existence of a new type of chemical bond, perpendicular paramagnetic bonding, in addition to ionic and covalent bonds, resulting in what has been initially described as \"magnetized matter\" in research published in 2012.\n\nEarly calculations suggested that there might be white dwarfs whose luminosity varied with a period of around 10 seconds, but searches in the 1960s failed to observe this. The first variable white dwarf found was HL Tau 76; in 1965 and 1966, and was observed to vary with a period of approximately 12.5 minutes. The reason for this period being longer than predicted is that the variability of HL Tau 76, like that of the other pulsating variable white dwarfs known, arises from non-radial gravity wave pulsations. Known types of pulsating white dwarf include the \"DAV\", or \"ZZ Ceti\", stars, including HL Tau 76, with hydrogen-dominated atmospheres and the spectral type DA; \"DBV\", or \"V777 Her\", stars, with helium-dominated atmospheres and the spectral type DB; and \"GW Vir stars\", sometimes subdivided into \"DOV\" and \"PNNV\" stars, with atmospheres dominated by helium, carbon, and oxygen. GW Vir stars are not, strictly speaking, white dwarfs, but are stars which are in a position on the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram between the asymptotic giant branch and the white dwarf region. They may be called \"pre-white dwarfs\". These variables all exhibit small (1%–30%) variations in light output, arising from a superposition of vibrational modes with periods of hundreds to thousands of seconds. Observation of these variations gives asteroseismological evidence about the interiors of white dwarfs.\n\nWhite dwarfs are thought to represent the end point of stellar evolution for main-sequence stars with masses from about 0.07 to 10 . The composition of the white dwarf produced will depend on the initial mass of the star. Current galactic models suggest the Milky Way galaxy currently contains about ten billion white dwarfs.\n\nIf the mass of a main-sequence star is lower than approximately half a solar mass, it will never become hot enough to fuse helium in its core. It is thought that, over a lifespan that considerably exceeds the age of the Universe (c. 13.8 billion years), such a star will eventually burn all its hydrogen, for a while becoming a blue dwarf, and end its evolution as a helium white dwarf composed chiefly of helium-4 nuclei. Due to the very long time this process takes, it is not thought to be the origin of the observed helium white dwarfs. Rather, they are thought to be the product of mass loss in binary systems or mass loss due to a large planetary companion.\n\nIf the mass of a main-sequence star is between 0.5 and 8 like our sun, its core will become sufficiently hot to fuse helium into carbon and oxygen via the triple-alpha process, but it will never become sufficiently hot to fuse carbon into neon. Near the end of the period in which it undergoes fusion reactions, such a star will have a carbon–oxygen core which does not undergo fusion reactions, surrounded by an inner helium-burning shell and an outer hydrogen-burning shell. On the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram, it will be found on the asymptotic giant branch. It will then expel most of its outer material, creating a planetary nebula, until only the carbon–oxygen core is left. This process is responsible for the carbon–oxygen white dwarfs which form the vast majority of observed white dwarfs.\n\nIf a star is massive enough, its core will eventually become sufficiently hot to fuse carbon to neon, and then to fuse neon to iron. Such a star will not become a white dwarf, because the mass of its central, non-fusing core, initially supported by electron degeneracy pressure, will eventually exceed the largest possible mass supportable by degeneracy pressure. At this point the core of the star will collapse and it will explode in a core-collapse supernova which will leave behind a remnant neutron star, black hole, or possibly a more exotic form of compact star. Some main-sequence stars, of perhaps 8 to 10 , although sufficiently massive to fuse carbon to neon and magnesium, may be insufficiently massive to fuse neon. Such a star may leave a remnant white dwarf composed chiefly of oxygen, neon, and magnesium, provided that its core does not collapse, and provided that fusion does not proceed so violently as to blow apart the star in a supernova. Although a few white dwarfs have been identified which may be of this type, most evidence for the existence of such comes from the novae called \"ONeMg\" or \"neon\" novae. The spectra of these novae exhibit abundances of neon, magnesium, and other intermediate-mass elements which appear to be only explicable by the accretion of material onto an oxygen-neon-magnesium white dwarf.\n\nType Iax supernova, that involve helium accretion by a white dwarf, have been proposed to be a channel for transformation of this type of stellar remnant. In this scenario, the carbon detonation produced in a Type Ia supernova is too weak to destroy the white dwarf, expelling just a small part of its mass as ejecta, but produces an asymmetric explosion that kicks the star, often known as a \"zombie star\", to high speeds of a hypervelocity star. The matter processed in the failed detonation is re-accreted by the white dwarf with the heaviest elements such as iron falling to its core where it accumulates. These \"iron-core\" white dwarfs would be smaller than the carbon-oxygen kind of similar mass and would cool and crystallize faster than those.\n\nA white dwarf is stable once formed and will continue to cool almost indefinitely, eventually to become a black dwarf. Assuming that the Universe continues to expand, it is thought that in 10 to 10 years, the galaxies will evaporate as their stars escape into intergalactic space. White dwarfs should generally survive galactic dispersion, although an occasional collision between white dwarfs may produce a new fusing star or a super-Chandrasekhar mass white dwarf which will explode in a Type Ia supernova. The subsequent lifetime of white dwarfs is thought to be on the order of the lifetime of the proton, known to be at least 10–10 years. Some grand unified theories predict a proton lifetime between 10 and 10 years. If these theories are not valid, the proton may decay by complicated nuclear reactions or through quantum gravitational processes involving a virtual black hole; in these cases, the lifetime is estimated to be no more than 10 years. If protons do decay, the mass of a white dwarf will decrease very slowly with time as its nuclei decay, until it loses enough mass to become a nondegenerate lump of matter, and finally disappears completely.\n\nA white dwarf can also be cannibalized or evaporated by a companion star, causing the white dwarf to lose so much mass that it becomes a planetary mass object. The resultant object, orbiting the former companion, now host star, could be a helium planet or diamond planet.\n\nA white dwarf's stellar and planetary system is inherited from its progenitor star and may interact with the white dwarf in various ways. Infrared spectroscopic observations made by NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope of the central star of the Helix Nebula suggest the presence of a dust cloud, which may be caused by cometary collisions. It is possible that infalling material from this may cause X-ray emission from the central star. Similarly, observations made in 2004 indicated the presence of a dust cloud around the young (estimated to have formed from its AGB progenitor about 500 million years ago) white dwarf G29-38, which may have been created by tidal disruption of a comet passing close to the white dwarf. Some estimations based on the metal content of the atmospheres of the white dwarfs consider that at least a 15% of them may be orbited by planets and/or asteroids, or at least their debris. Another suggested idea is that white dwarfs could be orbited by the stripped cores of rocky planets, that would have survived the red giant phase of their star but losing their outer layers and, given those planetary remnants would likely be made of metals, to attempt to detect them looking for the signatures of their interaction with the white dwarf's magnetic field.\n\nThere is a planet in the white dwarf–pulsar binary system PSR B1620-26.\n\nThere are two circumbinary planets around the white dwarf–red dwarf binary NN Serpentis.\n\nThe metal-rich white dwarf WD 1145+017 is the first white dwarf observed with a disintegrating minor planet which transits the star. The disintegration of the planetesimal generates a debris cloud which passes in front of the star every 4.5 hours, causing a 5-minute-long fade in the star's optical brightness. The depth of the transit is highly variable.\n\nIt has been proposed that white dwarfs with surface temperatures of less than 10,000 kelvins could harbor a habitable zone at a distance of c. 0.005 to 0.02 AU that would last upwards of 3 billion years. This is so close that any habitable planets would be tidally locked. The goal is to search for transits of hypothetical Earth-like planets that could have migrated inward and/or formed there. As a white dwarf has a size similar to that of a planet, these kinds of transits would produce strong eclipses. Newer research casts some doubts on this idea, given that the close orbits of those hypothetical planets around their parent stars would subject them to strong tidal forces that could render them uninhabitable by triggering a greenhouse effect. Another suggested constraint to this idea is the origin of those planets. Leaving aside formation from the accretion disk surrounding the white dwarf, there are two ways a planet could end in a close orbit around stars of this kind: by surviving being engulfed by the star during its red giant phase, and then spiralling inward, or inward migration after the white dwarf has formed. The former case is implausible for low-mass bodies, as they are unlikely to survive being absorbed by their stars. In the latter case, the planets would have to expel so much orbital energy as heat, through tidal interactions with the white dwarf, that they would likely end as uninhabitable embers.\n\nIf a white dwarf is in a binary star system and is accreting matter from its companion, a variety of phenomena may occur, including novae and Type Ia supernovae. It may also be a super-soft x-ray source if it is able to take material from its companion fast enough to sustain fusion on its surface. A close binary system of two white dwarfs can radiate energy in the form of gravitational waves, causing their mutual orbit to steadily shrink until the stars merge.\n\nThe mass of an isolated, nonrotating white dwarf cannot exceed the Chandrasekhar limit of ~1.4 . This limit may increase if the white dwarf is rotating rapidly and nonuniformly. White dwarfs in binary systems can accrete material from a companion star, increasing both their mass and their density. As their mass approaches the Chandrasekhar limit, this could theoretically lead to either the explosive ignition of fusion in the white dwarf or its collapse into a neutron star.\n\nAccretion provides the currently favored mechanism called the \"single-degenerate model\" for Type Ia supernovae. In this model, a carbon–oxygen white dwarf accretes mass and compresses its core by pulling mass from a companion star. It is believed that compressional heating of the core leads to ignition of carbon fusion as the mass approaches the Chandrasekhar limit. Because the white dwarf is supported against gravity by quantum degeneracy pressure instead of by thermal pressure, adding heat to the star's interior increases its temperature but not its pressure, so the white dwarf does not expand and cool in response. Rather, the increased temperature accelerates the rate of the fusion reaction, in a runaway process that feeds on itself. The thermonuclear flame consumes much of the white dwarf in a few seconds, causing a Type Ia supernova explosion that obliterates the star. In another possible mechanism for Type Ia supernovae, the \"double-degenerate model\", two carbon-oxygen white dwarfs in a binary system merge, creating an object with mass greater than the Chandrasekhar limit in which carbon fusion is then ignited.\n\nObservations have failed to note signs of accretion leading up to Type Ia supernovae, and this is now thought to be because the star is first loaded up to above the Chandrasekhar limit while also being spun up to a very high rate by the same process. Once the accretion stops the star gradually slows until the spin is no longer enough to prevent the explosion.\n\nBefore accretion of material pushes a white dwarf close to the Chandrasekhar limit, accreted hydrogen-rich material on the surface may ignite in a less destructive type of thermonuclear explosion powered by hydrogen fusion. These surface explosions can be repeated as long as the white dwarf's core remains intact. This weaker kind of repetitive cataclysmic phenomenon is called a (classical) nova. Astronomers have also observed dwarf novae, which have smaller, more frequent luminosity peaks than the classical novae. These are thought to be caused by the release of gravitational potential energy when part of the accretion disc collapses onto the star, rather than through a release of energy due to fusion. In general, binary systems with a white dwarf accreting matter from a stellar companion are called cataclysmic variables. As well as novae and dwarf novae, several other classes of these variables are known, including polars and intermediate polars, both of which feature highly magnetic white dwarfs. Both fusion- and accretion-powered cataclysmic variables have been observed to be X-ray sources.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19678805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19678805", "title": "Windows on Earth", "text": "Windows on Earth\n\nWindows on Earth is a museum exhibit, website, and exploration tool, developed by TERC, Inc. (an educational non-profit organization, previously called Technical Education Research Centers), and the Association of Space Explorers, that enables the public to explore an interactive, virtual view of Earth from space. In addition, the tool has been selected by NASA to help astronauts identify targets for photography from the International Space Station (ISS).\n\nThe program simulates the view of Earth as seen from a window aboard the ISS, in high-resolution, photographically accurate colors and 3D animations. The views include cloud cover, day and night cycles, night time lights, and other features that help make the exhibit realistic and interactive.\n\nWindows on Earth provides the user a view of Earth from an astronaut's viewpoint, with interactive photorealistic views of Earth as if seen from an altitude of 360 km. The program uses GeoFusion's digital Earth visualization system, which renders accurate views of Earth with terrain, satellite imagery, clouds, and other layers. The system is programmed for user interaction, allowing users to \"fly\" anywhere they wish to see, and zoom in or out to see details. The system's imagery is derived from Landsat, and features 3D perspective views. Former astronaut Jay Apt assisted with the color-correction of the images, to help get the most realistic colors as seen from space. The program is updated daily to include accurate cloud cover information.\n\nWindows on Earth was created by people from the Center for Earth and Space Science Education (CESSE) at TERC, a not-for profit math and science education company located in Cambridge, MA, in partnership with the Association of Space Explorers, GeoFusion's, and WorldSat International and with funding from the National Science Foundation, Informal Science Education.\n\nAdditional partners include the Challenger Learning Center and NASA's Johnson Space Center.\n\nThe Windows on Earth museum exhibit can be found in the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, Boston's Museum of Science, the Montshire Museum of Science in Vermont, the St. Louis Science Center, and the Connecticut Science Center.\n\nWindows on Earth flew on board the International Space Station (ISS). On October 12, 2008, Richard Garriott launched aboard Soyuz TMA-13 to the ISS as a Spaceflight participant. Garriott remained on board the station for 10 days, conducting educational and scientific programs and experiments. Earth observation was one of his prime tasks on this mission, and he used the Windows on Earth system to help him take pictures of specific targets.\n\nAfter the mission, Richard's photographs, along with ones taken by his astronaut father Owen Garriott, who flew on Skylab 3 (1973) and STS-9 (1983), were made available to the public through Windows on Earth. This provides a unique opportunity for comparing areas of Earth photographed by two generations of space explorers, showing how Earth's surface (and the technology of Earth observation) has changed over 35 years, from 1973 to 2008.\n\nIn May 2012, NASA selected Windows on Earth as the new tool to help astronauts identify targets for photography from the ISS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34061", "title": "Winter", "text": "Winter\n\nWinter is the coldest season of the year in polar and temperate zones (winter does not occur in most of the tropical zone). It occurs after autumn and before spring in each year. Winter is caused by the axis of the Earth in that hemisphere being oriented away from the Sun. Different cultures define different dates as the start of winter, and some use a definition based on weather. When it is winter in the Northern Hemisphere, it is summer in the Southern Hemisphere, and vice versa. In many regions, winter is associated with snow and freezing temperatures. The moment of winter solstice is when the sun's elevation with respect to the North or South Pole is at its most negative value (that is, the sun is at its farthest below the horizon as measured from the pole). The day on which this occurs has the shortest day and the longest night, with day length increasing and night length decreasing as the season progresses after the solstice. The earliest sunset and latest sunrise dates outside the polar regions differ from the date of the winter solstice, however, and these depend on latitude, due to the variation in the solar day throughout the year caused by the Earth's elliptical orbit (see earliest and latest sunrise and sunset).\n\nThe English word \"winter\" comes from the Proto-Indo-European root \"wend,\" relating to water.\n\nThe tilt of the Earth's axis relative to its orbital plane plays a large role in the formation of weather. The Earth is tilted at an angle of 23.44° to the plane of its orbit, causing different latitudes to directly face the Sun as the Earth moves through its orbit. This variation brings about seasons. When it is winter in the Northern Hemisphere, the Southern Hemisphere faces the Sun more directly and thus experiences warmer temperatures than the Northern Hemisphere. Conversely, winter in the Southern Hemisphere occurs when the Northern Hemisphere is tilted more toward the Sun. From the perspective of an observer on the Earth, the winter Sun has a lower maximum altitude in the sky than the summer Sun.\n\nDuring winter in either hemisphere, the lower altitude of the Sun causes the sunlight to hit that hemisphere at an oblique angle. In regions experiencing winter, the same amount of solar radiation is spread out over a larger area. This effect is compounded by the larger distance that the light must travel through the atmosphere, allowing the atmosphere to dissipate more heat. Compared with these effects, the changes in the distance of the earth from the sun are negligible.\n\nThe manifestation of the meteorological winter (freezing temperatures) in the northerly snow–prone parallels is highly variable depending on elevation, position versus marine winds and the amount of precipitation. A case in point is Canada, a country normally associated with tough winters. Winnipeg on the Great Plains at a relative distance from large bodies of water has a January high of and a low of . In comparison, Vancouver on the coast with a marine influence from moderating Pacific winds has a January low of with days well above freezing at . Both areas are on the 49th parallel north and in the same western half of the continent. A similar effect, although with less extreme differentials, is found in Europe where in spite of the northerly latitude of the islands, the British Isles has not a single non-mountain weather station with a below-freezing mean temperature.\n\nMeteorological reckoning is the method of measuring the winter season used by meteorologists based on \"sensible weather patterns\" for record keeping purposes, so the start of meteorological winter varies with latitude. Winter is often defined by meteorologists to be the three calendar months with the lowest average temperatures. This corresponds to the months of December, January and February in the Northern Hemisphere, and June, July and August in the Southern Hemisphere. The coldest average temperatures of the season are typically experienced in January or February in the Northern Hemisphere and in June, July or August in the Southern Hemisphere. Nighttime predominates in the winter season, and in some regions winter has the highest rate of precipitation as well as prolonged dampness because of permanent snow cover or high precipitation rates coupled with low temperatures, precluding evaporation. Blizzards often develop and cause many transportation delays. Diamond dust, also known as ice needles or ice crystals, forms at temperatures approaching due to air with slightly higher moisture from aloft mixing with colder, surface based air. They are made of simple ice crystals that are hexagonal in shape. The Swedish meteorological institute (SMHI) define winter as when the daily mean temperatures go below for five consecutive days. According to the SMHI, winter in Scandinavia is more pronounced when Atlantic low-pressure systems take more southerly and northerly routes, leaving the path open for high-pressure systems to come in and cold temperatures to occur. As a result, the coldest January on record in 1987 was also the sunniest in Stockholm.\n\nAccumulations of snow and ice are commonly associated with winter in the Northern Hemisphere, due to the large land masses there. In the Southern Hemisphere, the more maritime climate and the relative lack of land south of 40°S makes the winters milder; thus, snow and ice are less common in inhabited regions of the Southern Hemisphere. In this region, snow occurs every year in elevated regions such as the Andes, the Great Dividing Range in Australia, and the mountains of New Zealand, and also occurs in the southerly Patagonia region of South Argentina. Snow occurs year-round in Antarctica.\n\nIn the Northern Hemisphere, some authorities define the period of winter based on astronomical fixed points (i.e. based solely on the position of the Earth in its orbit around the sun), regardless of weather conditions. In one version of this definition, winter begins at the winter solstice and ends at the vernal equinox.\nThese dates are somewhat later than those used to define the beginning and end of the meteorological winter – usually considered to span the entirety of December, January, and February in the Northern Hemisphere and June, July, and August in the Southern.\n\nAstronomically, the winter solstice, being the day of the year which has fewest hours of daylight, ought to be in the middle of the season, but seasonal lag means that the coldest period normally follows the solstice by a few weeks. In some cultures, the season is regarded as beginning at the solstice and ending on the following equinox – in the Northern Hemisphere, depending on the year, this corresponds to the period between 21 or 22 December and 19, 20 or 21 March.\n\nIn the UK, meteorologists consider winter to be the three coldest months of December, January and February.\nIn Scandinavia, winter in one tradition begins on 14 October and ends on the last day of February. In Russia, currently calendar winter starts on 1 December and lasts through to the end of February, though traditionally it was reckoned from Christmas (25 December in the Julian calendar, or 7 January in the Gregorian) until the Annunciation (25 March in Julian). In many countries in the Southern Hemisphere, including Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, winter begins on 1 June and ends on 31 August. In Celtic nations such as Ireland (using the Irish calendar) and in Scandinavia, the winter solstice is traditionally considered as midwinter, with the winter season beginning 1 November, on All Hallows, or Samhain. Winter ends and spring begins on Imbolc, or Candlemas, which is 1 or 2 February. This system of seasons is based on the length of days exclusively. (The three-month period of the shortest days and weakest solar radiation occurs during November, December and January in the Northern Hemisphere and May, June and July in the Southern Hemisphere.)\n\nAlso, many mainland European countries tended to recognize Martinmas or St. Martin's Day (11 November), as the first calendar day of winter. The day falls at the midpoint between the old Julian equinox and solstice dates. Also, Valentine's Day (14 February) is recognized by some countries as heralding the first rites of spring, such as flowers blooming.\n\nIn Chinese astronomy and other East Asian calendars, winter is taken to commence on or around 7 November, with the \"Jiéqì\" (known as 立冬 \"lì dōng\"—literally, \"establishment of winter\").\n\nThe three-month period associated with the coldest average temperatures typically begins somewhere in late November or early December in the Northern Hemisphere and lasts through late February or early March. This \"thermological winter\" is earlier than the solstice delimited definition, but later than the daylight (Celtic) definition. Depending on seasonal lag, this period will vary between climatic regions.\n\nCultural influences such as Christmas creep may have led to the winter season being perceived as beginning earlier in recent years, although high latitude countries like Canada are usually well into their real winters before the December solstice.\n\nSince by almost all definitions valid for the Northern Hemisphere, winter spans 31 December and 1 January, the season is split across years, just like summer in the Southern Hemisphere. Each calendar year includes parts of two winters. This causes ambiguity in associating a winter with a particular year, e.g. \"Winter 2018\". Solutions for this problem include naming both years, e.g. \"Winter 18/19\", or settling on the year the season starts in or on the year most of its days belong to, which is the later year for most definitions.\n\nEcological reckoning of winter differs from calendar-based by avoiding the use of fixed dates. It is one of six seasons recognized by most ecologists who customarily use the term \"hibernal\" for this period of the year (the other ecological seasons being prevernal, vernal, estival, serotinal, and autumnal). The hibernal season coincides with the main period of biological dormancy each year whose dates vary according to local and regional climates in temperate zones of the Earth. The appearance of flowering plants like the crocus can mark the change from ecological winter to the prevernal season as early as late January in mild temperate climates.\n\nTo survive the harshness of winter, many animals have developed different behavioral and morphological adaptations for overwintering:\n\nSome annual plants never survive the winter. Other annual plants require winter cold to complete their life cycle; this is known as vernalization. As for perennials, many small ones profit from the insulating effects of snow by being buried in it. Larger plants, particularly deciduous trees, usually let their upper part go dormant, but their roots are still protected by the snow layer. Few plants bloom in the winter, one exception being the flowering plum, which flowers in time for Chinese New Year. The process by which plants become acclimated to cold weather is called hardening.\n\n\n\nHumans evolved in tropical climates, and met cold weather as they migrated into Eurasia, although earlier populations certainly encountered Southern Hemisphere winters in Southern Africa. Micro-evolution in Caucasian, Asiatic and Inuit people show some adaptation to the climate.\n\nHumans are sensitive to cold, see hypothermia. Snowblindness, norovirus, seasonal depression; slipping on black ice and falling icicles are other health concerns associated with cold and snowy weather. In the Northern Hemisphere, it is not unusual for homeless people to die from hypothermia in the winter.\n\nOne of the most common diseases associated with winter is influenza. Symptoms include: headache, fever, muscle pains, sinus infection, fatigue, dizziness, cough, and loss of appetite.\n\nIn Persian culture, the winter solstice is called Yaldā (meaning: birth) and it has been celebrated for thousands of years. It is referred to as the eve of the birth of Mithra, who symbolised light, goodness and strength on earth.\n\nIn Greek mythology, Hades kidnapped Persephone to be his wife. Zeus ordered Hades to return her to Demeter, the goddess of the Earth and her mother. However, Hades tricked Persephone into eating the food of the dead, so Zeus decreed that Persephone would spend six months with Demeter and six months with Hades. During the time her daughter is with Hades, Demeter became depressed and caused winter.\n\nIn Welsh mythology, Gwyn ap Nudd abducted a maiden named Creiddylad. On May Day, her lover, Gwythr ap Greidawl, fought Gwyn to win her back. The battle between them represented the contest between summer and winter.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57052239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57052239", "title": "Women's Air Raid Defense", "text": "Women's Air Raid Defense\n\nWomen's Air Raid Defense (WARD) was a World War II civilian organization that worked with the military to provide air defense for Hawaii. It formed in December of 1941 after the attack on Pearl Harbor. Women volunteered in order to allow men to be freed from air defense work to go onto combat roles. WARD was the only civilian organization employed by the military for the purpose to replace men in active duty. It was disbanded after the end of WWII. \n\nThe Women's Air Raid Defense (WARD) organization was started on December 26, 1941, when a small group of women in Honolulu met at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel. The meeting was led by Una Walker and Mrs. John Howard, who were military spouses and commanding general, Howard C. Davidson. The WARD would \"relieve urgently needed men for combat duty\" and allow the women to operate the air defense center. There was a call for 100 women and all slots were filled. Women chose to volunteer after experiencing the attack at Pearl Harbor on December 7. At first the women involved came from Hawaii, but later, women from the \"mainland\" were brought in. \n\nRecruits for WARD were required to be between the ages of 20 and 34, without children and had to pass an Army intelligence test. Training classes were held at Iolani Palace and first started on January 1, 1942. WARDs would have two weeks of training before starting. WARD volunteers learned how to plot the positions of airplanes using radar, which was experimental at the time. After training, WARD started to work in shifts at Fort Shafter, staffing the air defense center 24 hours a day. Each WARD would work a six hour shift on and six off for eight days, after which they had 32 hours off. WARD recruits would plot the position of the aircraft on a large, gridded physical map of the Hawaiian Islands. WARD also worked with army officers who knew the locations of friendly aircraft and helped find lost planes. All of the women plotters were known by the code name, \"Rascal\" and the radar operator was coded \"Oscar.\" \n\nThe organization was part of the 7th Fighter Wing, considered a detachment of Company A, Signal Aircraft Warning Regiment. Executive Order #9063 gave the organization powers to recruit and consider the volunteers civil servants for the federal government. WARD chief supervisors were under the command of Brigadier General Robert W. Douglas, Jr. The first chief supervisor of WARD was Mrs. R. T. Williams. She was followed by Catherine Coonley. Quarters were provided to the WARDs on Fort Shafter and the women moved into them on February 1, 1942. During the war, there were around 500 WARDs. They contracted to work a year at a time and were paid between $140 to $225 a month. \n\nOther WARDs were established throughout the islands: Maui on July 30, 1942; Hilo on August 10, 1942 and Kauai on September 14, 1942. \n\nWARD was detached from the Signal Corps on June 13, 1943 and named the WARD unit of the 17th Fighter Command. \n\nWARD was disbanded in 1945, after the end of World War II. Some members of the group stayed on in civil service roles in Hawaii. Official records documenting the work of the WARDs was lost in a 1983 fire. A book by Kam Napier and Candace Chenowith, \"Shuffleboard Pilots\", documents the history of the organization and was based on the personal experience of women who worked as WARDs. \n\n"}
