{"id": "20759708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20759708", "title": "4th meridian west", "text": "4th meridian west\n\nThe meridian 4° west of Greenwich is a line of longitude that extends from the North Pole across the Arctic Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, Europe, Africa, the Southern Ocean, and Antarctica to the South Pole.\n\nThe 4th meridian west forms a great circle with the 176th meridian east.\n\nStarting at the North Pole and heading south to the South Pole, the 4th meridian west passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "1285242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1285242", "title": "Autonomous oblast", "text": "Autonomous oblast\n\nAn autonomous oblast is an autonomous entity within the state which is on the \"oblast\" (province) level of the overall administrative subdivision. It may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "18765845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18765845", "title": "Back Award", "text": "Back Award\n\nThe Back Award, also referred to as the Back Grant, was first given by the Royal Geographical Society in 1882 for \"applied or scientific geographical studies which make an outstanding contribution to the development of national or international public policy\" \n\nIt is named after the notable Arctic explorer Admiral Sir George Back.\n\nSource (1882-1982): British Museum<br>\nSource (1970 onwards) RGS\n"}
{"id": "31131540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31131540", "title": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (N)", "text": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (N)\n\nA | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | Y | Z\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31176513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31176513", "title": "Cane Creek Falls", "text": "Cane Creek Falls\n\nCane Creek Falls is an plunge waterfall located along Cane Creek near Spencer, Tennessee, above the creek's confluence with Rockhouse Creek and Fall Creek. The waterfall is visible from the Gorge Trail and from the base of the Cane Creek Gorge, which can be accessed via the Cable Trail. The falls are located in Fall Creek Falls State Park.\n"}
{"id": "7786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7786", "title": "Challenger Deep", "text": "Challenger Deep\n\nThe Challenger Deep is the deepest known point in the Earth's seabed hydrosphere, with a depth of by direct measurement from submersibles, and slightly more by sonar bathymetry. It is in the Pacific Ocean, at the southern end of the Mariana Trench near the Mariana Islands group. The Challenger Deep is a relatively small slot-shaped depression in the bottom of a considerably larger crescent-shaped oceanic trench, which itself is an unusually deep feature in the ocean floor. The Challenger Deep's bottom is about long and wide, with gently sloping sides. The closest land to the Challenger Deep is Fais Island (one of the outer islands of Yap), southwest, and Guam, to the northeast. It is located in the ocean territory of the Federated States of Micronesia, from its border with ocean territory associated with Guam.\n\nThe depression is named after the British Royal Navy survey ship HMS \"Challenger\", whose expedition of 1872–1876 made the first recordings of its depth. According to the August 2011 version of the GEBCO Gazetteer of Undersea Feature Names, the location and depth of the Challenger Deep are and ±.\n\nJune 2009 sonar mapping of the Challenger Deep by the Simrad EM120 (sonar multibeam bathymetry system for 300–11,000 m deep water mapping) aboard the RV \"Kilo Moana\" indicated a depth of . The sonar system uses phase and amplitude bottom detection, with a precision of 0.2% to 0.5% of water depth; this is an error of about at this depth.<ref name=\"Daily Reports for R/V KILO MOANA\"></ref><ref name=\"Scientic Equipment aboard the R/V KILO MOANA\"></ref> Further soundings made by the US Center for Coastal & Ocean Mapping in October 2010 are in agreement with this figure, preliminarily placing the deepest part of the Challenger Deep at , with an estimated vertical uncertainty of ±. A 2014 study concludes that with the best of 2010 multibeam echosounder technologies a depth uncertainty of ± (95% confidence level) on 9 degrees of freedom and a positional uncertainty of ± (2drms) remain and the location of the deepest depth recorded in the 2010 mapping is at ().\n\nThe high water pressure at this depth makes designing and operating exploratory craft difficult. Only four descents have ever been achieved. The first descent by any vehicle was by the manned bathyscaphe \"Trieste\" in 1960. This was followed by the unmanned ROVs \"Kaikō\" in 1995 and \"Nereus\" in 2009. In March 2012 a manned solo descent was made by film director James Cameron in the deep-submergence vehicle \"Deepsea Challenger\".\n\nOver many years, the search for the point of maximum depth has involved many different vessels.\n\n\n\n\nIn 2014, a study was conducted regarding the determination of the depth and location of the Challenger Deep based on data collected previous to and during the 2010 sonar mapping of the Mariana Trench with a Kongsberg Maritime EM 122 multibeam echosounder system aboard USNS \"Sumner\". This study by James. V. Gardner et al. of the Center for Coastal & Ocean Mapping-Joint Hydrographic Center (CCOM/JHC), Chase Ocean Engineering Laboratory of the University of New Hampshire splits the measurement attempt history into three main groups: early single-beam echo sounders (1950s-1970s), early multibeam echo sounders (1980s - 21st century), and modern (i.e., post-GPS, high-resolution) multibeam echo sounders. Taking uncertainties in depth measurements and position estimation into account the raw data of the 2010 bathymetry of the Challenger Deep vicinity consisting of 2,051,371 soundings from eight survey lines was analyzed. The study concludes that with the best of 2010 multibeam echosounder technologies after the analysis a depth uncertainty of ± (95% confidence level) on 9 degrees of freedom and a positional uncertainty of ± (2drms) remain and the location of the deepest depth recorded in the 2010 mapping is at . The depth measurement uncertainty is a composite of measured uncertainties in the spatial variations in sound-speed through the water volume, the ray-tracing and bottom-detection algorithms of the multibeam system, the accuracies and calibration of the motion sensor and navigation systems, estimates of spherical spreading, attenuation throughout the water volume, and so forth.\n\nThe 2009 and 2010 maximal depths were not confirmed by the series of dives \"Nereus\" made to the bottom during an expedition in May–June 2009. The direct descent measurements by the four expeditions which have reported from the bottom, have fixed depths in a narrow range from 10,916 m () to 10,911 m (), to 10,902 m (\"Nereus\") to 10,898 m () Although an attempt was made to correlate locations, it could not be absolutely certain that \"Nereus\" (or the other descents) reached exactly the same points found to be maximally deep by the sonar/echo sounders of previous mapping expeditions, even though one of these echo soundings was made by \"Nereus\" mothership.\n\nOn 23 January 1960, the Swiss-designed \"Trieste\", originally built in Italy and acquired by the U.S. Navy, descended to the ocean floor in the trench manned by Jacques Piccard (who co-designed the submersible along with his father, Auguste Piccard) and USN Lieutenant Don Walsh. Their crew compartment was inside a spherical pressure vessel, which was a heavy-duty replacement (of the Italian original) built by Krupp Steel Works of Essen, Germany. Their descent took almost five hours and the two men spent barely twenty minutes on the ocean floor before undertaking the three-hour-and-fifteen-minute ascent. Their early departure from the ocean floor was due to their concern over a crack in the outer window caused by the temperature differences during their descent. The measured depth at the bottom was measured with a manometer at ±.\n\nOn 26 March 2012 (local time), Canadian film director James Cameron made a solo manned descent in the DSV \"Deepsea Challenger\" to the bottom of the Challenger Deep.\nAt approximately 05:15 ChST on 26 March (19:15 UTC on 25 March), the descent began.\nAt 07:52 ChST (21:52 UTC), \"Deepsea Challenger\" arrived at the bottom. The descent lasted 2 hours and 36 minutes and the recorded depth was when \"Deepsea Challenger\" touched down.\nCameron had planned to spend about six hours near the ocean floor exploring but decided to start the ascent to the surface after only 2 hours and 34 minutes. The time on the bottom was shortened because a hydraulic fluid leak in the lines controlling the manipulator arm obscured the visibility out the only viewing port. It also caused the loss of the submersible's starboard thrusters. At around 12:00 ChST (02:00 UTC on 26 March), the Deepsea Challenger website says the sub resurfaced after a 90-minute ascent, although Paul Allen's tweets indicate the ascent took only about 67 minutes.\nDuring a post-dive press conference Cameron said: \"I landed on a very soft, almost gelatinous flat plain. Once I got my bearings, I drove across it for quite a distance ... and finally worked my way up the slope.\" The whole time, Cameron said, he didn't see any fish, or any living creatures more than an inch (2.54 cm) long: \"The only free swimmers I saw were small amphipods\"—shrimplike bottom-feeders.\n\nSeveral other manned expeditions are planned. These include:\n\nOn 24 March 1995, the Japanese robotic deep-sea probe \"Kaikō\" broke the depth record for unmanned probes when it reached close to the surveyed bottom of the Challenger Deep. Created by the Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC), it was one of the few unmanned deep-sea probes in operation that could dive deeper than . The manometer measured depth of ± at for the Challenger Deep is believed to be the most accurate measurement taken yet. \"Kaikō\" also collected sediment cores containing marine organisms from the bottom of the deep. \"Kaikō\" made many unmanned descents to the Mariana Trench during three expeditions in 1995, 1996 and 1998. The greatest depth measured by \"Kaikō\" in 1996 was at and in 1998 at . It was lost at sea off Shikoku Island during Typhoon Chan-Hom on 29 May 2003.\n\nOn 3 June 2008, the Japanese robotic deep-sea probe \"ABISMO\" (Automatic Bottom Inspection and Sampling Mobile) reached the bottom of the Mariana Trench about east of the Challenger Deep and collected core samples of the deep sea sediment and water samples of the water column. Created by the Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC), it was the only unmanned deep-sea probe in use that could dive deeper than after that of \"Nereus\". During \"ABISMO\"'s deepest Mariana Trench dive its manometer measured a depth of ±\n\nOn 31 May 2009 the United States sent the \"Nereus\" hybrid remotely operated vehicle (HROV) to the Challenger Deep. Nereus thus became the first vehicle to reach the Mariana Trench since 1998 and the deepest-diving vehicle then in operation. Project manager and developer Andy Bowen heralded the achievement as \"the start of a new era in ocean exploration\". \"Nereus\", unlike \"Kaikō\", did not need to be powered or controlled by a cable connected to a ship on the ocean surface.\n\n\"Nereus\" spent over 10 hours at the bottom of the Challenger Deep and measured a depth of at , while sending live video and data back to its mothership \"RV Kilo Moana\" at the surface and collecting geological and biological samples from the Challenger Deep bottom with its manipulator arm for further scientific analysis.<ref name=\"Daily Reports for R/V KILO MOANA April and May 2009\"></ref>\n\nThe \"Nereus\" was operated by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. It was lost on May 10, 2014 while conducting a dive at in depth in the Kermadec Trench.\n\nOn 23 May 2016 the Chinese submersible \"Haidou-1\" dove to a depth of in the Mariana Trench. This autonomous and remotely operated vehicle has a design depth of .\n\nThe Summary Report of the HMS \"Challenger\" expedition lists radiolaria from the two dredged samples taken when the Challenger Deep was first discovered. These (Nassellaria and Spumellaria) were reported in the Report on Radiolaria (1887) written by Ernst Haeckel.\n\nOn their 1960 descent, the crew of the \"Trieste\" noted that the floor consisted of diatomaceous ooze and reported observing \"some type of flatfish\" lying on the seabed.\n\nMany marine biologists are now skeptical of this supposed sighting, and it is suggested that the creature may instead have been a sea cucumber. The video camera on board the \"Kaiko\" probe spotted a sea cucumber, a scale worm and a shrimp at the bottom. At the bottom of the Challenger deep, the \"Nereus\" probe spotted one polychaete worm (a multi-legged predator) about an inch long.\n\nAn analysis of the sediment samples collected by \"Kaiko\" found large numbers of simple organisms at . While similar lifeforms have been known to exist in shallower ocean trenches (> 7,000 m) and on the abyssal plain, the lifeforms discovered in the Challenger Deep possibly represent taxa distinct from those in shallower ecosystems.\n\nMost of the organisms collected were simple, soft-shelled foraminifera (432 species according to National Geographic), with four of the others representing species of the complex, multi-chambered genera \"Leptohalysis\" and \"Reophax\". Eighty-five percent of the specimens were organic, soft-shelled allogromiids, which is unusual compared to samples of sediment-dwelling organisms from other deep-sea environments, where the percentage of organic-walled foraminifera ranges from 5% to 20%. As small organisms with hard, calcareous shells have trouble growing at extreme depths because of the high solubility of calcium carbonate in the pressurized water, scientists theorize that the preponderance of soft-shelled organisms in the Challenger Deep may have resulted from the typical biosphere present when the Challenger Deep was shallower than it is now. Over the course of six to nine million years, as the Challenger Deep grew to its present depth, many of the species present in the sediment died out or were unable to adapt to the increasing water pressure and changing environment. The species that survived the change in depth were the ancestors of the Challenger Deep's current denizens.\n\nOn 17 March 2013, researchers reported data that suggested microbial life forms thrive in the Challenger Deep. Other researchers reported related studies that microbes thrive inside rocks up to below the sea floor under of ocean off the coast of the northwestern United States. According to one of the researchers, \"You can find microbes everywherethey're extremely adaptable to conditions, and survive wherever they are.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "452061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=452061", "title": "Charles Marie de La Condamine", "text": "Charles Marie de La Condamine\n\nCharles Marie de La Condamine (28 January 1701 – 4 February 1774) was a French explorer, geographer, and mathematician. He spent ten years in present-day Ecuador measuring the length of a degree latitude at the equator and preparing the first map of the Amazon region based on astronomical observations. Furthermore he was a contributor to the Encyclopédie ou Dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers\".\"\n\nCharles Marie de La Condamine was born in Paris as a son of well-to-do parents, Charles de La Condamine and Louise Marguerite Chourses. He studied at the Collège Louis-le-Grand where he was trained in humanities as well as in mathematics. After finishing his studies, he enlisted in the army and fought in the war against Spain (1719). After returning from the war, he became acquainted with scientific circles in Paris. On 12 December 1730 he became a member of the Académie des Sciences and was appointed Assistant Chemist at the Academy.\n\nThe next year (May 1731) he sailed with the Levant Company to Constantinople (now Istanbul), where he stayed five months. After returning to Paris, La Condamine submitted in November 1732 a paper to the Academy entitled \"Mathematical and Physical Observations made during a Visit of the Levant in 1731 and 1732\".\n\nThree years later he joined the French Geodesic Mission to present-day Ecuador which had the aim of testing a hypothesis of Isaac Newton. Newton had posited that the Earth is not a perfect sphere, but bulges around the equator and is flattened at the poles. Newton's opinion had raised a huge controversy among French scientists. Pierre Louis Maupertuis, Alexis Claude Clairaut, and Pierre Charles Le Monnier traveled to Lapland, where they were to measure the length of several degrees of latitude orthogonal to the arctic circle, while Louis Godin, Pierre Bouguer, and La Condamine were sent to South America to perform similar measurements around the equator.\n\nOn 16 May 1735, La Condamine sailed from La Rochelle accompanied by Godin, Bouguer, and a botanist, Joseph de Jussieu. After stopovers in Martinique, Saint-Domingue, and Cartagena (Colombia), they came to Panama where they crossed the continent. Finally (on 10 March 1736) the expedition arrived at the Pacific port of Manta. La Condamine's associations with his colleagues were unhappy. The expedition was beset by many difficulties, and finally La Condamine split from the rest and made his way to Quito, Ecuador separately following the Esmeraldas River, becoming the first European to encounter rubber in the process. He joined the group again on 4 June 1736 in the city of Quito. La Condamine is credited with introducing samples of rubber to the \"Académie Royale des Sciences\" of France in 1736. In 1751, he presented a paper by François Fresneau to the Académie (eventually published in 1755) which described many of the properties of rubber. This has been referred to as the first scientific paper on rubber.\n\nThe meridian (longitudinal) arc which La Condamine and his colleagues chose to measure the length of passed through a high valley perpendicular to the equator, stretching from Quito (now the capital of Ecuador) in the north to Cuenca in the south. The scientists spent a month performing triangulation measurements in the Yaruqui plains — from 3 October to 3 November 1736 — and then returned to Quito. After they had come back to Quito, they found that subsidies expected from Paris had not arrived. La Condamine, who had taken precautions and had made a deposit on a bank in Lima, traveled in early 1737 to Lima to collect money. He prolonged this journey somewhat to study the cinchona tree with its medicinally active bark (containing the anti-malarial drug quinine), the tree being hardly known in Europe.\n\nAfter returning to Quito on 20 June 1737, he found that Godin refused to disclose his results, whereupon La Condamine joined forces with Bouguer. The two men continued with their length measurements in the mountainous and inaccessible region close to Quito. When in December 1741 Bouguer detected an error in a calculation of La Condamine's, the two explorers got into a quarrel and stopped speaking to each other. However, working separately, the two completed their project in May 1743.\n\nInsufficient funds prevented La Condamine from returning to France directly. Thus La Condamine chose to return by way of the Amazon River, a route which is longer and more dangerous. His was the first scientific exploration of the Amazon. He reached the Atlantic Ocean on 19 September 1743, having made observations of astronomic and topographic interest on the way. He also made some botanical studies, notably of cinchona and rubber trees. In February 1744 he arrived in Cayenne, the capital of French Guiana. He did not dare to travel back to France on a French merchant ship because France was at war (the Austrian Succession War of 1740–1748), and he had to wait for five months for a Dutch ship, but made good use of his waiting time by observing and recording physical, biological, and ethnological phenomena. Finally leaving Cayenne in August 1744, he arrived in Amsterdam on 30 November 1744, where he stayed for a while, and arrived in Paris in February 1745. He brought with him many notes, natural history specimens, and art objects that he donated to the naturalist Buffon (1707–1788).\nLa Condamine published the results of his measurements and travels with a map of the Amazon in \"Mém. de l'Académie des Sciences\", 1745 (English translation 1745–1747). This included the first descriptions by a European of the Casiquiare canal and the curare arrow poison prepared by the Amerindians. He also noted the correct use of quinine to fight malaria. The journal of his ten-year-long voyage to South America was published in Paris in 1751. The scientific results of the expedition were unambiguous: the Earth is indeed a spheroid flattened at the poles as was believed by Newton. Not surprisingly, La Condamine and Bouguer failed to write a joint publication. Bouguer's death in 1758 put an end to their quarrel. The other expedition member, Godin, died in 1760. The only surviving member, La Condamine, obtained most of the credit for the expedition which drew a great deal of attention in France, as he was a gifted writer and popularizer.\n\nOn a visit to Rome La Condamine made careful measurements of the ancient buildings with a view to a precise determination of the length of the Roman foot. He also wrote in favour of inoculation, and on various other subjects, mainly connected with his work in South America.\n\nLa Condamine had contracted smallpox in his youth. This led him to take part in the debate on vaccination against the disease and to propagate inoculation against small-pox. Assisted by the clarity and elegance of his writing, he presented several papers at the Academy of Sciences in which he defended his ideas with passion. He became a corresponding member of the academies of London, Berlin, Saint Petersburg and Bologna, and was elected to the l'Académie française on 29 November 1760. In August 1756, he married, with papal dispensation, his young niece Charlotte Bouzier of Estouilly. La Condamine had many friends, the closest one being Maupertuis, to whom he bequeathed his papers. La Condamine died in Paris on 4 February 1774, following a hernia operation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215623", "title": "Communist state", "text": "Communist state\n\nA Communist state (sometimes referred to as Marxist–Leninist state or workers' state) is a state that is administered and governed by a single party, guided by Marxist-Leninist philosophy, with the aim of achieving communism.\n\nThere have been several instances of Communist states with functioning political participation processes involving several other non-party organisations, such as trade unions, factory committees and direct democratic participation. The term \"Communist state\" is used by Western historians, political scientists and media to refer to these countries. However, contrary to Western usage, these states do not describe themselves as \"communist\" nor do they claim to have achieved communism—they refer to themselves as Socialist or Workers' states that are in the process of constructing socialism.\n\nCommunist states are typically administered by a single, centralised party apparatus, although some provide the impression of multiple political parties but these are all solely in control by that centralised party. These parties usually are Marxist–Leninist or some variation thereof (including Maoism in China), with the official aim of achieving socialism and progressing toward a communist society. These states are usually termed by Marxists as dictatorships of the proletariat, or dictatorships of the working class, whereby the working class is the ruling class of the country in contrast to capitalism, whereby the bourgeoisie is the ruling class.\n\nIn the theories of German philosopher Karl Marx, a state in any society is an instrument of oppression by one social class over another, historically a minority exploiter class ruling over a majority exploited class. Marx saw that in his contemporary time the new nation states were characterized by increasingly intensified class contradiction between the capitalist class and the working class it ruled over. He predicted that if the class contradictions of the capitalist system continue to intensify, that the working class will ultimately become conscious of itself as an exploited collective and will overthrow the capitalists and establish collective ownership over the means of production, therein arriving at a new phase of development called socialism (in Marxist understanding). \n\nThe state ruled by the working class during the transition into classless society is called the \"dictatorship of the proletariat\". Vladimir Lenin created revolutionary vanguard theory in an attempt to expand on the concept. Lenin saw that science is something that is initially practicable by only a minority of society who happen to be in a position free from distraction so that they may contemplate it and believed that scientific socialism was no exception. He therefore advocated that the Communist party should be structured as a vanguard of those who have achieved full class consciousness to be at the forefront of the class struggle and lead the workers to expand class consciousness and replace the capitalist class as the ruling class, therein establishing the proletarian state.\n\nDuring the 20th century, the world's first constitutionally socialist state was in Russia in 1917. In 1922, it joined other former territories of the empire to become the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). After World War II, the Soviet Army occupied much of Eastern Europe and thus helped establish Communist states in these countries. Most Communist states in Eastern Europe were allied with the Soviet Union, except for Yugoslavia which declared itself non-aligned. In 1949, after a war against Japanese occupation and a civil war resulting in a Communist victory, the People's Republic of China (PRC) was established. Communist states were also established in Cambodia, Cuba, Laos and Vietnam. A Communist state was established in North Korea, although it later adopted its own ideology called Juche. In 1989, the Communist states in Eastern Europe collapsed under public pressure during a wave of non-violent movements which led to the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. Today, the existing Communist states in the world are in China, Cuba, Laos and Vietnam.\n\nThese Communist states often do not claim to have achieved socialism or communism in their countries—rather, they claim to be building and working toward the establishment of socialism in their countries. For example, the preamble to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam's Constitution states that Vietnam only entered a transition stage between capitalism and socialism after the country was re-unified under the Communist Party in 1976 and the 1992 Constitution of the Republic of Cuba states that the role of the Communist Party is to \"guide the common effort toward the goals and construction of socialism\".\n\nCommunist states share similar institutions, which are organized on the premise that the Communist party is a vanguard of the proletariat and represents the long-term interests of the people. The doctrine of democratic centralism, which was developed by Vladimir Lenin as a set of principles to be used in the internal affairs of the Communist party, is extended to society at large.\n\nAccording to democratic centralism, all leaders must be elected by the people and all proposals must be debated openly, but once a decision has been reached all people have a duty to obey that decision and all debate should end. When used within a political party, democratic centralism is meant to prevent factionalism and splits. When applied to an entire state, democratic centralism creates a one-party system.\n\nThe constitutions of most Communist states describe their political system as a form of democracy. They thus recognize the sovereignty of the people as embodied in a series of representative parliamentary institutions. Such states do not have a separation of powers and instead have one national legislative body (such as the Supreme Soviet in the Soviet Union) which is considered the highest organ of state power and which is legally superior to the executive and judicial branches of government.\n\nSuch national legislative politics in Communist states often have a similar structure to the parliaments that exist in liberal republics, with two significant differences: first, the deputies elected to these national legislative bodies are not expected to represent the interests of any particular constituency, but the long-term interests of the people as a whole; and second, against Marx's advice, the legislative bodies of Communist states are not in permanent session. Rather, they convene once or several times per year in sessions which usually last only a few days.\n\nWhen the national legislative body is not in session, its powers are transferred to a smaller council (often called a presidium) which combines legislative and executive power and in some Communist states (such as the Soviet Union before 1990), acts as a collective head of state. In some systems, the presidium is composed of important Communist party members who vote the resolutions of the Communist party into law.\n\nA feature of Communist states is the existence of numerous state-sponsored social organizations (trade unions, youth organizations, women's organizations, associations of teachers, writers, journalists and other professionals, consumer cooperatives, sports clubs and so on) which are integrated into the political system.\n\nIn Communist states, the social organizations are expected to promote social unity and cohesion, to serve as a link between the government and society and to provide a forum for recruitment of new Communist party members.\n\nHistorically, the political organization of many socialist states has been dominated by a one-party monopoly. Some Communist governments, such as North Korea, East Germany or Czechoslovakia, have or had more than one political party, but all minor parties are or were required to follow the leadership of the Communist party. In Communist states, the government may not tolerate criticism of policies that have already been implemented in the past or are being implemented in the present.\n\nNevertheless, Communist parties have won elections and governed in the context of multi-party democracies without seeking to establish a one-party state and therefore these entities do not fall under the definition of Communist state. Examples include San Marino, Nicaragua (1979–1990), Moldova, Nepal (presently), Cyprus and the Indian states of Kerala, West Bengal and Tripura.\n\nCountries such as the Soviet Union and China were criticized by Western authors and organisations on the basis of a lack of multi-party Western democracy, in addition to several other areas where socialist society and Western societies differed. For instance, socialist societies were commonly characterised by state ownership or social ownership of the means of production either through administration through party organisations, democratically elected councils and communes and co-operative structures—in opposition to the liberal democratic capitalist free market paradigm of management, ownership and control by corporations and private individuals. Communist states have also been criticised for the influence and outreach of their respective ruling parties on society, in addition to lack of recognition for some Western legal rights and liberties such as the right to ownership of private property and the restriction of the right to free speech.\n\nSoviet advocates and socialists responded to these criticisms by highlighting the ideological differences in the concept of \"freedom\". McFarland and Ageyev noted that \"Marxist–Leninist norms disparaged \"laissez-faire\" individualism (as when housing is determined by one's ability to pay), also [condemning] wide variations in personal wealth as the West has not. Instead, Soviet ideals emphasized equality—free education and medical care, little disparity in housing or salaries, and so forth\". When asked to comment on the claim that former citizens of Communist states enjoy increased freedoms, Heinz Kessler, former East German Minister of National Defence, replied: \"Millions of people in Eastern Europe are now free from employment, free from safe streets, free from health care, free from social security\". The early economic development policies of Communist states have been criticised for focusing primarily on the development of heavy industry.\n\nIn his critique of states run under Marxist–Leninist ideology, economist Michael Ellman of the University of Amsterdam notes that such states compared favorably with Western states in some health indicators such as infant mortality and life expectancy. Similarly, Amartya Sen's own analysis of international comparisons of life expectancy found that several Marxist–Leninist states made significant gains and commented \"one thought that is bound to occur is that communism is good for poverty removal\". The dissolution of the Soviet Union was followed by a rapid increase in poverty, crime, corruption, unemployment, homelessness, rates of disease and income inequality, along with decreases in calorie intake, life expectancy, adult literacy and income.\n\nThe following countries are one-party states in which the institutions of the ruling Communist party and the state have become intertwined. They are generally adherents of Marxism–Leninism in particular. They are listed here together with the year of their founding and their respective ruling parties.\nThere are multi-party states with Communist parties leading the government. Such states are not considered to be Communist states as the countries themselves allow for multiple parties and do not provide a constitutional role for their Communist parties.\n\nSan Marino (1945–1957), Moldova (2001–2009), Cyprus (2001–2013) and Guyana (1992–2015) have also had officially Marxist–Leninist ruling parties.\n\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "422245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422245", "title": "Czech lands", "text": "Czech lands\n\nThe Czech lands or the Bohemian lands () are the three historical regions of Bohemia, Moravia, and Czech Silesia. Together the three have formed the Czech part of Czechoslovakia since 1918 and the Czech Republic since 1 January 1969, which became independent on 1 January 1993.\n\nIn a historical context, Czech texts use the term to refer to any territory ruled by the Kings of Bohemia, i.e., the lands of the Bohemian Crown (\"\") as established by Emperor Charles IV in the 14th century. This would include territories like the Lusatias (which in 1635 fell to Saxony) and the whole of Silesia, all ruled from Prague Castle at that time. After the conquest of Silesia by the Prussian king Frederick the Great in 1742, the remaining lands of the Bohemian Crown—Bohemia, Moravia and Austrian Silesia—have been more or less co-extensive with the territory of the modern-day Czech Republic.\n\nThe term Czech lands has been used to describe different things by different people. While the Czech name of Bohemia proper is \"Čechy\", the adjective \"český\" refers to both \"Bohemian\" and \"Czech\". The non-auxiliary term (i.e. the term used in official Czech geographical terminology lists) for the present-day Czech lands (i.e. Bohemia, Moravia, Czech Silesia) is \"Česko\", documented as early as in 1704.\n\nDuring the period of the First and Second Czechoslovak Republic the Czech lands were frequently referred as \"Historical lands\" in particular when mentioned together with Slovakia (which was never an autonomous historical region within the Kingdom of Hungary).\n\nThe Bohemian lands had been settled by Celts (Boii) from 5th BC until 2nd AD, then by various Germanic tribes (Marcomanni, Quadi, Lombards and others) until they moved on to the west during the Migration Period (1st-5th century). At the beginning of the 5th century the population decreased vigorously and, according to mythology led by a chieftain \"Čech\", the first Western Slavs came in the second half of the 6th century. In the course of the decline of the Great Moravian realm during the Hungarian invasions of Europe in the 9th and 10th century, the Czech Přemyslid dynasty established the Duchy of Bohemia. Backed by the East Frankish kings, they prevailed against the reluctant Bohemian nobility and extended their rule eastwards over the adjacent Moravian lands.\n\nIn 1198 Duke Ottokar I of Bohemia received the royal title by the German anti-king Philip of Swabia. Attached to his Kingdom of Bohemia was the Margraviate of Moravia established in 1182 and Kłodzko Land, the later County of Kladsko. From the second part of the 13th century onwards, German colonists (\"German Bohemians\") settled in the mountainous border area on the basis of the kings' invitation during the \"Ostsiedlung\" (in Prague they lived already from the early 12th century) and lived alongside the Slavs.\n\nThe Silesian lands north of the Sudetes mountain range had been ruled by the Polish Piast dynasty from the 10th century onwards. While Bohemia rose to a kingdom, the Silesian Piasts alienated from the fragmenting Kingdom of Poland. After in 1310 the Bohemian crown had passed to the mighty House of Luxembourg, nearly all Silesian dukes pledged allegiance to King John the Blind and in 1335 the Polish king Casimir III the Great officially renounced Silesia by the Treaty of Trentschin. King John had also acquired the lands of Bautzen and Görlitz (later Upper Lusatia) in 1319 and 1329. His son and successor Charles IV, also King of the Romans since 1346, incorporated the Silesian and Lusatian estates into the Bohemian Crown and upon his coronation as Holy Roman Emperor confirmed their indivisibility and affiliation with the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nIn 1367 Emperor Charles IV also purchased the former March of Lusatia (Lower Lusatia) in the northwest, however, during the Thirty Years' War both Lusatias passed to the Electorate of Saxony by the Peace of Prague. After the Bohemian Crown (Crown of Saint Wenceslas) passed to the House of Habsburg in 1526, the Bohemian crown lands together with the Kingdom of Hungary and the Austrian \"hereditary lands\" became part of the larger Habsburg Monarchy. In 1742 the Habsburg queen Maria Theresa lost the bulk of Silesia to Prussia upon the First Silesian War, part of the War of the Austrian Succession.\n The coat of arms of the Czech Republic incorporates those of the three integral Czech lands: Bohemia proper, Moravia and Czech Silesia. The arms of Bohemia originated with the Bohemian kingdom, like those of Moravia with the Moravian margraviate. The arms of Czech Silesia originated as those of all of the historical region of Silesia, much of which is now in Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "18127772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18127772", "title": "Dibbeen Forest Reserve", "text": "Dibbeen Forest Reserve\n\nDibeen Forest Reserve is a nature reserve located in the north-west of Jordan. It is situated just south of the Roman site of Jerash and covers an area of of rolling hills covered with pine–oak habitat. This area houses the largest Aleppo Pines one of the oldest and naturally grown habitats in Jordan. It also is the home to 17 endangered species such as the Persian Squirrel.\n\nThe area was protected as a nature reserve in 2004 under the initiative of the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature.\n\nThe forest is known as the driest places in the region and ranges over 60 km and is changing in altitude of 500m to 1000m above sea level. The rock within the reserve is a mixture of limestone and chalky limestone, which has been formed into steep slopes. The average rainfall is per year. Within the forest, there is a variety of moisture conditions, with wadis giving different regimes from those found on the steep slopes.\n\nThe Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature (RSCN) is a voluntary organization that works to preserve the natural resources of Jordan. It was established in 1966 under the patronage of Queen Noorr and the late King Hussein as Honorary President.\n\nIn 1966 their main focus was the decline in animal species due to illegal hunting in the area and the disregard to nature in Jordan. The small group of pioneers worked side by side with the government to make sure that wildlife was kept safe by creating ground rules and hunting laws. As a result, in 1973, the RSCN was given the right to issue hunting licenses and develop hunting patrols to regulate hunting laws in Jordan. Their work flourished and by 1995 they were the first to establish the first Jordanian Environmental Protection Law and an Environmental Police Unit in 2006.\n\nThroughout the years the RSNC has dutifully protected six areas around Jordan (1200 square meters). These areas include Shaumari, Azraq, Dana, Wadi Mujib, Ajloun, and Dibeen.\n\nOn May 17, 2016, The Jordan Times wrote an article on the RSCN's celebration of its golden jubilee.\n\nThe forest reserve contains one of the last remaining examples of a pine–oak forest in the Middle East. The species of the reserve's trees vary with elevation; Aleppo Pines inhabit the lower altitudes, the mixed pine–oak woodland (comprising Aleppo Pine and Palestine Oak) grows in the middle, and a species of small deciduous oak – Quercus infectoria (the Aleppo, or Cyprus, Oak) – grows at the higher altitudes. Other flora in the habitat include orchids, Greek strawberry trees, pistachio, and olive trees. The forest's age structure shows wide variation, with many areas containing mature forest trees and a vigorous understory.\n\nAt least 17 endangered species have been identified within the reserve. These include the Persian red squirrel, four bat types, grey wolves and striped hyenas. Woodland birds also live in the forest. It is also believed but not proven, that this reserve has the last population of Southern Banded Newts living in Jordan\n\nDibeen Forest Reserve was established in 2004 after being listed as a conservation priority in the 1998 protected areas review and the 8.5 km area became part of the protected area.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2007, UNDP led a project in the Dibeen Forest, Jerash, Al Meirad and Burma municipalities of the region to support the establishment of the nature reserve. This helped to conserve the unique local biodiversity and encouraged the local communities to make sustainable alternative uses of the available resources. As a result, there was increased awareness of the local capacity-building and need for the conservation-oriented land use planning in the region.\n\nDespite efforts to protect the forest, it is gradually and systematically being destroyed by the establishment of modern cement projects, intentional fires, over grazing and illegal sporadic logging.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28771874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28771874", "title": "Eger Graben", "text": "Eger Graben\n\nThe Eger Graben (, ), much less commonly called the Ohre or Ohře Graben, is a geographical unit in the Czech Republic. It runs southwards, parallel to the Ore Mountains (\"Krušné Hory\") and its formation is linked with that of the mountain range.\n\nThe Ohře (equally commonly known in English by its German name \"Eger\", hence the name of the trough) flows through the Eger Graben and separates the Ore Mountains from the Slavkovský les and the Doupov Mountains. The trench continues to the northeast along the valley of the Bílina and later, as the North Bohemian Basin, separates the Ore Mountains from the Bohemian Central Mountains, where the River Ohře leaves the graben and flows into the Elbe south of the Bohemian Mountains.\n\nThe Eger Graben is part of the European Cenozoic Rift System and was created geologically on the same principle as the Rhine Rift Valley. It was formed by the almost complete erosion of the Variscan Mountains and sits on a fault-block caused by the horizontal pressure of the African continental plate. This block dropped, however, in contrast to the surrounding area. The Ore Mountains are fault-block mountains which rise very gently in Germany, but drop very steeply into the Eger Graben. The trench thus follows the main fault line of the Ore Mountains.\n\n"}
{"id": "44511992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44511992", "title": "Floriculture in Canada", "text": "Floriculture in Canada\n\nThe worldwide floriculture industry is worth well over 30 billion U.S dollars and demand, as well as production, is on the rise. Though Canada is not one of the major floriculture producers worldwide, this industry remains of importance to the nation.\n\nIn 2001, the Canadian floriculture industry was valued at $904 million CAD. To give a more recent figure, Canadian floricultural farm cash receipts in 2013 totalled $1.09 billion CAD. In 2011, there were 2,278 floricultural farms in Canada. Of the provinces, Ontario has the greatest share in this industry—nearly 45% in 2004. Correspondingly Ontario dominates in exports to the U.S. 9,500 people of mainly Dutch and Danish background were employed by Ontario’s floriculture industry in 2004. Southern Ontario’s strategic location within 12 hours by road of half of the U.S. urban population is cited as one of the major sources of its success in floriculture. Clearly the floriculture industry is quite important to Canada and especially to Ontario.\n"}
{"id": "11984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11984", "title": "Gardening", "text": "Gardening\n\nGardening is the practice of growing and cultivating plants as part of horticulture. In gardens, ornamental plants are often grown for their flowers, foliage, or overall appearance; useful plants, such as root vegetables, leaf vegetables, fruits, and herbs, are grown for consumption, for use as dyes, or for medicinal or cosmetic use. Gardening is considered by many people to be a relaxing activity.\n\nGardening ranges in scale from fruit orchards, to long boulevard plantings with one or more different types of shrubs, trees, and herbaceous plants, to residential yards including lawns and foundation plantings, to plants in large or small containers grown inside or outside. Gardening may be very specialized, with only one type of plant grown, or involve a large number of different plants in mixed plantings. It involves an active participation in the growing of plants, and tends to be labor-intensive, which differentiates it from farming or forestry.\n\nForest gardening, a forest-based food production system, is the world's oldest form of gardening. Forest gardens originated in prehistoric times along jungle-clad river banks and in the wet foothills of monsoon regions. In the gradual process of families improving their immediate environment, useful tree and vine species were identified, protected and improved while undesirable species were eliminated. Eventually foreign species were also selected and incorporated into the gardens.\n\nAfter the emergence of the first civilizations, wealthy individuals began to create gardens for aesthetic purposes. Ancient Egyptian tomb paintings from the New Kingdom (around 1500 BC) provide some of the earliest physical evidence of ornamental horticulture and landscape design; they depict lotus ponds surrounded by symmetrical rows of acacias and palms. A notable example of ancient ornamental gardens were the Hanging Gardens of Babylon—one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World —while ancient Rome had dozens of gardens.\n\nWealthy ancient Egyptians used gardens for providing shade. Egyptians associated trees and gardens with gods, believing that their deities were pleased by gardens. Gardens in ancient Egypt were often surrounded by walls with trees planted in rows. Among the most popular species planted were date palms, sycamores, fir trees, nut trees, and willows. These gardens were a sign of higher socioeconomic status. In addition, wealthy ancient Egyptians grew vineyards, as wine was a sign of the higher social classes. Roses, poppies, daisies and irises could all also be found in the gardens of the Egyptians.\n\nAssyria was also renowned for its beautiful gardens. These tended to be wide and large, some of them used for hunting game—rather like a game reserve today—and others as leisure gardens. Cypresses and palms were some of the most frequently planted types of trees.\n\nAncient Roman gardens were laid out with hedges and vines and contained a wide variety of flowers—acanthus, cornflowers, crocus, cyclamen, hyacinth, iris, ivy, lavender, lilies, myrtle, narcissus, poppy, rosemary and violets—as well as statues and sculptures. Flower beds were popular in the courtyards of rich Romans.\nThe Middle Age represented a period of decline in gardens for aesthetic purposes, with regard to gardening. After the fall of Rome, gardening was done for the purpose of growing medicinal herbs and/or decorating church altars. Monasteries carried on a tradition of garden design and intense horticultural techniques during the medieval period in Europe. \nGenerally, monastic garden types consisted of kitchen gardens, infirmary gardens, cemetery orchards, cloister garths and vineyards. Individual monasteries might also have had a \"green court\", a plot of grass and trees where horses could graze, as well as a cellarer's garden or private gardens for obedientiaries, monks who held specific posts within the monastery.\n\nIslamic gardens were built after the model of Persian gardens and they were usually enclosed by walls and divided in 4 by watercourses. Commonly, the center of the garden would have a pool or pavilion. Specific to the Islamic gardens are the mosaics and glazed tiles used to decorate the rills and fountains that were built in these gardens.\n\nBy the late 13th century, rich Europeans began to grow gardens for leisure and for medicinal herbs and vegetables. They surrounded the gardens by walls to protect them from animals and to provide seclusion. During the next two centuries, Europeans started planting lawns and raising flowerbeds and trellises of roses. Fruit trees were common in these gardens and also in some, there were turf seats. At the same time, the gardens in the monasteries were a place to grow flowers and medicinal herbs but they were also a space where the monks could enjoy nature and relax.\n\nThe gardens in the 16th and 17th century were symmetric, proportioned and balanced with a more classical appearance. Most of these gardens were built around a central axis and they were divided into different parts by hedges. Commonly, gardens had flowerbeds laid out in squares and separated by gravel paths.\n\nGardens in Renaissance were adorned with sculptures, topiary and fountains. In the 17th century, knot gardens became popular along with the hedge mazes. By this time, Europeans started planting new flowers such as tulips, marigolds and sunflowers.\n\nCottage gardens, which emerged in Elizabethan times, appear to have originated as a local source for herbs and fruits. One theory is that they arose out of the Black Death of the 1340s, when the death of so many laborers made land available for small cottages with personal gardens. According to the late 19th-century legend of origin, these gardens were originally created by the workers that lived in the cottages of the villages, to provide them with food and herbs, with flowers planted among them for decoration. Farm workers were provided with cottages that had architectural quality set in a small garden—about —where they could grow food and keep pigs and chickens.\n\nAuthentic gardens of the yeoman cottager would have included a beehive and livestock, and frequently a pig and sty, along with a well. The peasant cottager of medieval times was more interested in meat than flowers, with herbs grown for medicinal use rather than for their beauty. By Elizabethan times there was more prosperity, and thus more room to grow flowers. Even the early cottage garden flowers typically had their practical use—violets were spread on the floor (for their pleasant scent and keeping out vermin); calendulas and primroses were both attractive and used in cooking. Others, such as sweet william and hollyhocks, were grown entirely for their beauty.\n\nIn the 18th century, gardens were laid out more naturally, without any walls. This style of smooth undulating grass, which would run straight to the house, clumps, belts and scattering of trees and his serpentine lakes formed by invisibly damming small rivers, were a new style within the English landscape, a \"gardenless\" form of landscape gardening, which swept away almost all the remnants of previous formally patterned styles. The English garden usually included a lake, lawns set against groves of trees, and often contained shrubberies, grottoes, pavilions, bridges and follies such as mock temples, Gothic ruins, bridges, and other picturesque architecture, designed to recreate an idyllic pastoral landscape. This new style emerged in England in the early 18th century, and spread across Europe, replacing the more formal, symmetrical Garden à la française of the 17th century as the principal gardening style of Europe. The English garden presented an idealized view of nature. They were often inspired by paintings of landscapes by Claude Lorraine and Nicolas Poussin, and some were Influenced by the classic Chinese gardens of the East, which had recently been described by European travelers. The work of Lancelot 'Capability' Brown was particularly influential. Also, in 1804 the Horticultural Society was formed. Gardens of the 19th century contained plants such as the monkey puzzle or Chile pine. This is also the time when the so-called \"gardenesque\" style of gardens evolved. These gardens displayed a wide variety of flowers in a rather small space. Rock gardens increased in popularity in the 19th century.\n\nResidential gardening takes place near the home, in a space referred to as the garden. Although a garden typically is located on the land near a residence, it may also be located on a roof, in an atrium, on a balcony, in a windowbox, or on a patio or vivarium.\n\nGardening also takes place in non-residential green areas, such as parks, public or semi-public gardens (botanical gardens or zoological gardens), amusement parks, along transportation corridors, and around tourist attractions and garden hotels. In these situations, a staff of gardeners or groundskeepers maintains the gardens.\n\nThere is a wide range of features and accessories available in the market for both the professional gardener and the amateur to exercise their creativity. These are used to add decoration or functionality, and may be made from a wide range of materials such as copper, stone, wood, bamboo, stainless steel, clay, stained glass, concrete, or iron. Examples include trellis, arbors, statues, benches, water fountains, urns, bird baths and feeders, and garden lighting such as candle lanterns and oil lamps. The use of these items can be part of the expression of a gardener's gardening personality.\n\nGardening for beauty is likely nearly as old as farming for food, however for most of history for the majority of people there was no real distinction since the need for food and other useful products trumped other concerns. Small-scale, subsistence agriculture (called hoe-farming) is largely indistinguishable from gardening. A patch of potatoes grown by a Peruvian peasant or an Irish smallholder for personal use could be described as either a garden or a farm. Gardening for average people evolved as a separate discipline, more concerned with aesthetics, recreation and leisure,\nunder the influence of the pleasure gardens of the wealthy. Meanwhile, farming has evolved (in developed countries) in the direction of commercialization, economics of scale, and monocropping.\n\nIn respect to its food-producing purpose, gardening is distinguished from farming chiefly by scale and intent. Farming occurs on a larger scale, and with the production of salable goods as a major motivation. Gardening happens on a smaller scale, primarily for pleasure and to produce goods for the gardener's own family or community. There is some overlap between the terms, particularly in that some moderate-sized vegetable growing concerns, often called market gardening, can fit in either category.\n\nThe key distinction between gardening and farming is essentially one of scale; gardening can be a hobby or an income supplement, but farming is generally understood as a full-time or commercial activity, usually involving more land and quite different practices. One distinction is that gardening is labor-intensive and employs very little infrastructural capital, sometimes no more than a few tools, e.g. a spade, hoe, basket and watering can. By contrast, larger-scale farming often involves irrigation systems, chemical fertilizers and harvesters or at least ladders, e.g. to reach up into fruit trees. However, this distinction is becoming blurred with the increasing use of power tools in even small gardens.\n\nIn part because of labor intensity and aesthetic motivations, gardening is very often much more productive per unit of land than farming. In the Soviet Union, half the food supply came from small peasants' garden plots on the huge government-run collective farms, although they were tiny patches of land. Some argue this as evidence of the superiority of capitalism, since the peasants could generally sell their produce. Others consider it to be evidence of a tragedy of the commons, since the large collective plots were often neglected, with fertilizers or water redirected to the private gardens.\n\nMonty Don has speculated on an atavistic connection between present-day gardeners and pre-modern peasantry.\n\nThe term precision agriculture is sometimes used to describe gardening using intermediate technology (more than tools, less than harvesters), especially of organic varieties. Gardening is effectively scaled up to feed entire villages of over 100 people from specialized plots. A variant is the community garden which offers plots to urban dwellers; see further in allotment (gardening).\n\nGarden design is considered to be an art in most cultures, distinguished from gardening, which generally means \"garden maintenance\". Garden design can include different themes such as perennial, butterfly, wildlife, Japanese, water, tropical, or shade gardens. In Japan, Samurai and Zen monks were often required to build decorative gardens or practice related skills like flower arrangement known as \"ikebana\". In 18th-century Europe, country estates were refashioned by landscape gardeners into formal gardens or landscaped park lands, such as at Versailles, France, or Stowe, England. Today, landscape architects and garden designers continue to produce artistically creative designs for private garden spaces. In the US, professional landscape designers are certified by the Association of Professional Landscape Designers.\n\nPeople can express their political or social views in gardens, intentionally or not. The lawn vs. garden issue is played out in urban planning as the debate over the \"land ethic\" that is to determine urban land use and whether hyper hygienist bylaws (e.g. weed control) should apply, or whether land should generally be allowed to exist in its natural wild state. In a famous Canadian Charter of Rights case, \"Sandra Bell vs. City of Toronto\", 1997, the right to cultivate all native species, even most varieties deemed noxious or allergenic, was upheld as part of the right of free expression.\n\nCommunity gardening comprises a wide variety of approaches to sharing land and gardens.\n\nPeople often surround their house and garden with a hedge. Common hedge plants are privet, hawthorn, beech, yew, leyland cypress, hemlock, arborvitae, barberry, box, holly, oleander, forsythia and lavender. The idea of open gardens without hedges may be distasteful to those who enjoy privacy.\nThe Slow Food movement has sought in some countries to add an edible school yard and garden classrooms to schools, e.g. in Fergus, Ontario, where these were added to a public school to augment the kitchen classroom. Garden sharing, where urban landowners allow gardeners to grow on their property in exchange for a share of the harvest, is associated with the desire to control the quality of one's food, and reconnect with soil and community.\n\nIn US and British usage, the production of ornamental plantings around buildings is called \"landscaping\", \"landscape maintenance\" or \"grounds keeping\", while international usage uses the term \"gardening\" for these same activities.\n\nAlso gaining popularity is the concept of \"Green Gardening\" which involves growing plants using organic fertilizers and pesticides so that the gardening process - or the flowers and fruits produced thereby - doesn't adversely affect the environment or people's health in any manner.\n\nGarden pests are generally plants, fungi, or animals (frequently insects) that engage in activity that the gardener considers undesirable. A pest may crowd out desirable plants, disturb soil, stunt the growth of young seedlings, steal or damage fruit, or otherwise kill plants, hamper their growth, damage their appearance, or reduce the quality of the edible or ornamental portions of the plant. Aphids, spider mites, slugs, snails, ants, birds, and even cats are commonly considered to be garden pests.\n\nBecause gardeners may have different goals, organisms considered \"garden pests\" vary from gardener to gardener. \"Tropaeolum speciosum\", for example, may be considered a desirable and ornamental garden plant, or it may be considered a pest if it seeds and starts to grow where it is not wanted. As another example, in lawns, moss can become dominant and be impossible to eradicate. In some lawns, lichens, especially very damp lawn lichens such as \"Peltigera lactucfolia\" and \"P. membranacea\", can become difficult to control and be considered pests.\n\nThere are many ways by which unwanted pests are removed from a garden. The techniques vary depending on the pest, the gardener's goals, and the gardener's philosophy. For example, snails may be dealt with through the use of a chemical pesticide, an organic pesticide, hand-picking, barriers, or simply growing snail-resistant plants.\n\nPest control is often done through the use of pesticides, which may be either organic or artificially synthesized. Pesticides may affect the ecology of a garden due to their effects on the populations of both target and non-target species. For example, unintended exposure to some neonicotinoid pesticides has been proposed as a factor in the recent decline in honey bee populations. A mole vibrator can deter mole activity in a garden.\n\nOther means of control include the removal of infected plants, using fertilizers and biostimulants to improve the health and vigour of plants so they better resist attack, practising crop rotation to prevent pest build-up, using companion planting, and practising good garden hygiene, such as disinfecting tools and clearing debris and weeds which may harbour pests.\n\n\"Garden Guns\" are smooth bore shotguns specifically made to fire .22 caliber snake shot, and are commonly used by gardeners and farmers for pest control. Garden Guns are short range weapons that can do little harm past to , and they're relatively quiet when fired with snake shot, compared to a standard ammunition. These guns are especially effective inside of barns and sheds, as the snake shot will not shoot holes in the roof or walls, or more importantly injure livestock with a ricochet. They are also used for pest control at airports, warehouses, stockyards, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14665", "title": "Geography of Iraq", "text": "Geography of Iraq\n\nThe geography of Iraq is diverse and falls into five main regions: 1. the desert (west of the Euphrates), 2. Upper Mesopotamia (between the upper Tigris and Euphrates rivers), 3. the northern highlands of Iraq, and 4. Lower Mesopotamia, 5. the alluvial plain extending from around Tikrit to the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe mountains in the northeast are an extension of the alpine system that runs eastward from the Balkans through southern Turkey, northern Iraq, Iran, and Afghanistan, eventually reaching the Himalayas. The desert is in the southwest and central provinces along the borders with Saudi Arabia and Jordan and geographically belongs with the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nMost geographers, including those of the Iraqi government, discuss the country's geography in terms of four main zones or regions: the desert in the west and southwest; the rolling upland between the upper Tigris and Euphrates rivers (in Arabic the \"Dijla\" and \"Furat\", respectively); the highlands in the north and northeast; and the alluvial plain through which the Tigris and Euphrates flow.\nIraq's official statistical reports give the total land area as , whereas a United States Department of State publication gives the area as .\n\nThe uplands region, between the Tigris north of Samarra and the Euphrates north of Hit, is known as Al Jazira (the island) and is part of a larger area that extends westward into Syria between the two rivers and into Turkey. Water in the area flows in deeply cut valleys, and irrigation is much more difficult than it is in the lower plain. The southwest areas of this zone are classified as desert or semi-desert. The northern parts, which include such places like the Nineveh Plains, Duhok and Zakho, mainly consist of Mediterranean vegetation. The vegetation cyclically dries out and appear brown in the virtually arid summer and flourish in the wet winter.\n\nAn Alluvial plain begins north of Baghdad and extends to the Persian Gulf. Here the Tigris and Euphrates rivers lie above the level of the plain in many places, and the whole area is a river delta interlaced by the channels of the two rivers and by irrigation canals. Intermittent lakes, fed by the rivers in flood, also characterize southeastern Iraq. A fairly large area () just above the confluence of the two rivers at Al Qurnah and extending east of the Tigris beyond the Iranian border is marshland, known as Hawr al Hammar, the result of centuries of flooding and inadequate drainage. Much of it is permanent marsh, but some parts dry out in early winter, and other parts become marshland only in years of great flood.\n\nBecause the waters of the Tigris and Euphrates above their confluence are heavily silt- laden, irrigation and fairly frequent flooding deposit large quantities of silty loam in much of the delta area. Windborne silt contributes to the total deposit of sediments. It has been estimated that the delta plains are built up at the rate of nearly twenty centimeters in a century. In some areas, major floods lead to the deposit in temporary lakes of as much as thirty centimeters of mud.\n\nThe Tigris and Euphrates also carry large quantities of salts. These, too, are spread on the land by sometimes excessive irrigation and flooding. A high water table and poor surface and subsurface drainage tend to concentrate the salts near the surface of the soil. In general, the salinity of the soil increases from Baghdad south to the Persian Gulf and severely limits productivity in the region south of Al Amarah. The salinity is reflected in the large lake in central Iraq, southwest of Baghdad, known as Bahr al Milh (Sea of Salt). There are two other major lakes in the country to the north of Bahr al Milh: Buhayrat ath Tharthar and Buhayrat al Habbaniyah.\n\nBetween Upper and Lower Mesopotamia is the urban area surrounding Baghdad.\nThese \"Baghdad Belts\" can be described as the provinces adjacent to the Iraqi capital and can be divided into four quadrants: Northeast, Southeast, Southwest, and Northwest. Beginning in the north, the belts include the province of Salah ad Din, clockwise to Baghdad province, Diyala in the North-east, Babil and Wasit in the south east and around to Al Anbar in the west.\n\nThe northeastern highlands begin just south of a line drawn from Mosul to Kirkuk and extend to the borders with Turkey and Iran. High ground, separated by broad, undulating steppes, gives way to mountains ranging from near the Iranian and Turkish borders. Except for a few valleys, the mountain area proper is suitable only for grazing in the foothills and steppes; adequate soil and rainfall, however, make cultivation possible. Here, too, are the great oil fields near Mosul and Kirkuk. The northeast is the homeland of most Iraqi Kurds.\n\nThe desert zone, an area lying west and southwest of the Euphrates River, is a part of the Syrian Desert and Arabian Desert, which covers sections of Syria, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia and most of the Arabian Peninsula.\nThe region, sparsely inhabited by pastoral bedouins, consists of a wide stony plain interspersed with rare sandy stretches. A widely ramified pattern of wadis–watercourses that are dry most of the year–runs from the border to the Euphrates. Some wadis are over long and carry brief but torrential floods during the winter rains.\n\nWestern and southern Iraq is a vast desert region covering some 64,900 square miles (168 square km), almost two-fifths of the country.\nThe western desert, an extension of the Syrian Desert, rises to elevations above 1,600 feet (490 metres).\nThe southern desert is known as Al-Hajarah in the western part and as Al-Dibdibah in the east. Both deserts are part of the Arabian Desert.\nAl Hajarah has a complex topography of rocky desert, wadis, ridges, and depressions.\nAl-Dibdibah is a more sandy region with a covering of scrub vegetation. Elevation in the southern desert averages between 1,000 and 2,700 feet (300 to 800 metres).\nA height of 3,119 feet (951 metres) is reached at Mount 'Unayzah at the intersection of the borders of Jordan, Iraq and Saudi Arabia.\nThe deep Wadi Al-Batin runs 45 miles (75 km) in a northeast-southwest direction through Al-Dibdibah. It has been recognized since 1913 as the boundary between western Kuwait and Iraq.\n\nThe Euphrates originates in Turkey, is augmented by the Balikh and Khabur rivers in Syria, and enters Iraq in the northwest. Here it is fed only by the wadis of the western desert during the winter rains. It then winds through a gorge, which varies from two to 16 kilometers in width, until it flows out on the plain at Ar Ramadi. Beyond there the Euphrates continues to the Hindiya Barrage, which was constructed in 1914 to divert the river into the Hindiyah Channel; the present day Shatt al Hillah had been the main channel of the Euphrates before 1914. Below Al Kifl, the river follows two channels to As-Samawah, where it reappears as a single channel to join the Tigris at Al Qurnah.\nThe Tigris also rises in Turkey but is significantly augmented by several rivers in Iraq, the most important of which are the Khabur, the Great Zab, the Little Zab, and the Adhaim, all of which join the Tigris above Baghdad, and the Diyala, which joins it about thirty-six kilometers below the city. At the Kut Barrage much of the water is diverted into the Shatt al-Hayy, which was once the main channel of the Tigris. Water from the Tigris thus enters the Euphrates through the Shatt al-Hayy well above the confluence of the two main channels at Al Qurnah.\n\nBoth the Tigris and the Euphrates break into a number of channels in the marshland area, and the flow of the rivers is substantially reduced by the time they come together at Al Qurnah. Moreover. the swamps act as silt traps, and the Shatt al Arab is relatively silt free as it flows south. Below Basra, however, the Karun River enters the Shatt al Arab from Iran, carrying large quantities of silt that present a continuous dredging problem in maintaining a channel for ocean-going vessels to reach the port at Basra. This problem has been superseded by a greater obstacle to river traffic, however, namely the presence of several sunken hulls that have been rusting in the Shatt al Arab since early in the Iran-Iraq war.\n\nThe waters of the Tigris and Euphrates are essential to the life of the country, but they sometimes threaten it. The rivers are at their lowest level in September and October and at flood in March, April, and May when they may carry forty times as much water as at low mark. Moreover, one season's flood may be ten or more times as great as that in another year. In 1954, for example, Baghdad was seriously threatened, and dikes protecting it were nearly topped by the flooding Tigris. Since Syria built a dam on the Euphrates, the flow of water has been considerably diminished and flooding was no longer a problem in the mid-1980s. In 1988 Turkey was also constructing a dam on the Euphrates that would further restrict the water flow.\n\nUntil the mid-twentieth century, most efforts to control the waters were primarily concerned with irrigation. Some attention was given to problems of flood control and drainage before the revolution of July 14, 1958, but development plans in the 1960s and 1970s were increasingly devoted to these matters, as well as to irrigation projects on the upper reaches of the Tigris and Euphrates and the tributaries of the Tigris in the northeast. During the war, government officials stressed to foreign visitors that, with the conclusion of a peace settlement, problems of irrigation and flooding would receive top priority from the government.\n\nIraqi coastal waters boast a living coral reef, covering an area of 28 km in the Persian Gulf, at the mouth of the Shatt al-Arab river (). The coral reef was discovered by joint Iraqi–German expeditions of scientific scuba divers carried out in September 2012 and in May 2013. Prior to its discovery, it was believed that Iraq lacks coral reefs as the local turbid waters prevented the detection of the potential presence of local coral reefs. Iraqi corals were found to be adapted to one of the most extreme coral-bearing environments in the world, as the seawater temperature in this area ranges between 14 and 34 °C. The reef harbors several living stone corals, octocorals, ophiuroids and bivalves. There are also silica-containing demo-sponges.\n\nIn the rural areas of the alluvial plain and in the lower Diyala region, settlement almost invariably clusters near the rivers, streams, and irrigation canals. The bases of the relationship between watercourse and settlement have been summarized by Robert McCormick Adams, director of the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. He notes that the levees laid down by streams and canals provide advantages for both settlement and agriculture. Surface water drains more easily on the levees' back-slope, and the coarse soils of the levees are easier to cultivate and permit better subsurface drainage. The height of the levees gives some protection against floods and the frost that often affect low-lying areas and may kill and/or damage winter crops. Above all, those living or cultivating on the crest of a levee have easy access to water for irrigation and household use in a dry, hot country.\n\nAlthough there are some isolated homesteads, most rural communities are nucleated settlements rather than dispersed farmsteads; that is, the farmer leaves his village to cultivate the fields outside it. The pattern holds for farming communities in the Kurdish highlands of the northeast as well as for those in the alluvial plain. The size of the settlement varies, generally with the volume of water available for household use and with the amount of land accessible to village dwellers. Sometimes, particularly in the lower Tigris and Euphrates valleys, soil salinity restricts the area of arable land and limits the size of the community dependent on it, and it also usually results in large unsettled and uncultivated stretches between the villages.\n\nFragmentary information suggests that most farmers in the alluvial plain tend to live in villages of over 100 persons. For example, in the mid-1970s a substantial number of the residents of Baqubah, the administrative center and major city of Diyala Governorate, were employed in agriculture.\n\nThe Marsh Arabs of the south usually live in small clusters of two or three houses kept above water by rushes that are constantly being replenished. Such clusters often are close together, but access from one to another is possible only by small boat. Here and there a few natural islands permit slightly larger clusters. Some of these people are primarily water buffalo herders and lead a semi-nomadic life. In the winter, when the waters are at a low point, they build fairly large temporary villages. In the summer they move their herds out of the marshes to the river banks.\n\nThe war has had its effect on the lives of these denizens of the marshes. With much of the fighting concentrated in their areas, they have either migrated to settled communities away from the marshes or have been forced by government decree to relocate within the marshes. Also, in early 1988, the marshes had become the refuge of deserters from the Iraqi army who attempted to maintain life in the fastness of the overgrown, desolate areas while hiding out from the authorities. These deserters in many instances have formed into large gangs that raid the marsh communities; this also has induced many of the marsh dwellers to abandon their villages.\n\nThe war has also affected settlement patterns in the northern Kurdish areas. There, the struggle for a Kurdish state by guerrillas was rejected by the government as it steadily escalated volence against the local communities. Starting in 1984, the government launched a scorched-earth campaign to drive a wedge between the villagers and the guerrillas in the remote areas of two provinces of Kurdistan in which Kurdish guerrillas were active. In the process whole villages were torched and subsequently bulldozed, which resulted in the Kurds flocking into the regional centers of Irbil and As Sulaymaniyah. Also as a \"military precaution\", the government has cleared a broad strip of territory in the Kurdish region along the Iranian border of all its inhabitants, hoping in this way to interdict the movement of Kurdish guerrillas back and forth between Iran and Iraq. The majority of Kurdish villages, however, remained intact in early 1988.\n\nIn the arid areas of Iraq to the west and south, cities and large towns are almost invariably situated on watercourses, usually on the major rivers or their larger tributaries. In the south this dependence has had its disadvantages. Until the recent development of flood control, Baghdad and other cities were subject to the threat of inundation. Moreover, the dikes needed for protection have effectively prevented the expansion of the urban areas in some directions. The growth of Baghdad, for example, was restricted by dikes on its eastern edge. The diversion of water to the Milhat ath Tharthar and the construction of a canal transferring water from the Tigris north of Baghdad to the Diyala River have permitted the irrigation of land outside the limits of the dikes and the expansion of settlement.\n\nThe climate of Iraq is mainly a hot desert climate or a hot semi-arid climate to the northernmost part. Averages high temperatures are generally above 40 °C (104 °F) at low elevations during summer months (June, July and August) while averages low temperatures can drop to below 0 °C (32 °F) during the coldest month of the year during winter The all-time record high temperature in Iraq of 52 °C (126 °F) was recorded near An Nasiriyah on 2 August 2011. Most of the rainfall occurs from December through April and averages between annually. The mountainous region of northern Iraq receives appreciably more precipitation than the central or southern desert region, where they tend to have a Mediterranean climate.\n\nRoughly 90% of the annual rainfall occurs between November and April, most of it in the winter months from December through March. The remaining six months, particularly the hottest ones of June, July, and August, are extremely dry.\n\nExcept in the north and northeast, mean annual rainfall ranges between . Data available from stations in the foothills and steppes south and southwest of the mountains suggest mean annual rainfall between for that area. Rainfall in the mountains is more abundant and may reach a year in some places, but the terrain precludes extensive cultivation. Cultivation on nonirrigated land is limited essentially to the mountain valleys, foothills, and steppes, which have or more of rainfall annually. Even in this zone, however, only one crop a year can be grown, and shortages of rain have often led to crop failures.\n\nMean minimum temperatures in the winter range from near freezing (just before dawn) in the northern and northeastern foothills and the western desert to and in the alluvial plains of southern Iraq. They rise to a mean maximum of about in the western desert and the northeast, and in the south. In the summer mean minimum temperatures range from about and rise to maxima between roughly . Temperatures sometimes fall below freezing and have fallen as low as at Ar Rutbah in the western desert. A such summer heat, even in a hot desert, is high and this can be easily explained by the very low elevations of deserts regions which experience these exceptionally searing high temperatures. In fact, the elevations of cities such as Baghdad or Basra are near the sea level (0 m) because deserts are located predominantly along the Persian Gulf. That's why some Gulf's countries like Iraq, Iran and Kuwait experience extreme heat during summer, even more extreme than the normal level. The searing summer heat only exists in low elevations in these countries while mountains and higher elevations know much more moderated summer temperatures.\n\nThe summer months are marked by two kinds of wind phenomena. The southern and southeasterly \"sharqi\", a dry, dusty wind with occasional gusts of , occurs from April to early June and again from late September through November. It may last for a day at the beginning and end of the season but for several days at other times. This wind is often accompanied by violent duststorms that may rise to heights of several thousand meters and close airports for brief periods. From mid-June to mid-September the prevailing wind, called the shamal, is from the north and northwest. It is a steady wind, absent only occasionally during this period. The very dry air brought by this shamal permits intensive sun heating of the land surface, but the breeze has some cooling effect.\n\nThe combination of rain shortage and extreme heat makes much of Iraq a desert. Because of very high rates of evaporation, soil and plants rapidly lose the little moisture obtained from the rain, and vegetation could not survive without extensive irrigation. Some areas, however, although arid, do have natural vegetation in contrast to the desert. For example, in the Zagros Mountains in northeastern Iraq there is permanent vegetation, such as oak trees, and date palms are found in the south.\n\nIn 1922 British officials concluded the Treaty of Mohammara with Abd al Aziz ibn Abd ar Rahman Al Saud, who in 1932 formed the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The treaty provided the basic agreement for the boundary between the eventually independent nations. Also in 1922 the two parties agreed to the creation of the diamond-shaped Neutral Zone of approximately adjacent to the western tip of Kuwait in which neither Iraq nor Saudi Arabia would build dwellings or installations. Bedouins from either country could utilize the limited water and seasonal grazing resources of the zone. In April 1975, an agreement signed in Baghdad fixed the borders of the countries.\n\nThrough Algerian mediation, Iran and Iraq agreed in March 1975 to normalize their relations, and three months later they signed a treaty known as the Algiers Accord. The document defined the common border all along the Khawr Abd Allah (Shatt) River estuary as the thalweg. To compensate Iraq for the loss of what formerly had been regarded as its territory, pockets of territory along the mountain border in the central sector of its common boundary with Iran were assigned to it. Nonetheless, in September 1980 Iraq went to war with Iran, citing among other complaints the fact that Iran had not turned over to it the land specified in the Algiers Accord. This problem has subsequently proved to be a stumbling block to a negotiated settlement of the ongoing conflict.\n\nIn 1988 the boundary with Kuwait was another outstanding problem. It was fixed in a 1913 treaty between the Ottoman Empire and British officials acting on behalf of Kuwait's ruling family, which in 1899 had ceded control over foreign affairs to Britain. The boundary was accepted by Iraq when it became independent in 1932, but in the 1960s and again in the mid-1970s, the Iraqi government advanced a claim to parts of Kuwait. Kuwait made several representations to the Iraqis during the war to fix the border once and for all but Baghdad repeatedly demurred, claiming that the issue is a potentially divisive one that could inflame nationalist sentiment inside Iraq. Hence in 1988 it was likely that a solution would have to wait until the war ended.\n\nArea:<br>\n\"total:\" <br>\n\"land:\" <br>\n\"water:\" \n\nLand boundaries:<br>\n\"total:\" <br>\n\"border countries:\" Iran , Saudi Arabia , Syria , Turkey , Kuwait , Jordan \n\nCoastline: \n\nMaritime claims:<br>\n\"territorial sea:\" \n\"continental shelf:\" not specified\n\nTerrain:<br> mostly broad plains; reedy marshes along Iranian border in south with large flooded areas; mountains along borders with Iran and Turkey\n\nElevation extremes:<br>\n\"lowest point:\" Persian Gulf 0 m<br>\n\"highest point:\" Cheekah Dar \n\nNatural resources: petroleum, natural gas, phosphates, sulfur\n\nLand use:<br>\n\"arable land:\" 7.89%<br>\n\"permanent crops:\" 0.53%<br>\n\"other:\" 91.58% (2012)\n\nIrrigated land: (2003)\n\nTotal renewable water resources: (2011)\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):<br>\n\"total:\" 66 km/yr (7%/15%/79%)<br>\n\"per capita:\" 2,616 m/yr (2000)\n\nWhile its proven oil reserves of ranks Iraq second in the world behind Saudi Arabia, the United States Department of Energy estimates that up to 90 percent of the country remains unexplored. Unexplored regions of Iraq could yield an additional . Iraq's oil production costs are among the lowest in the world. However, only about 2,000 oil wells have been drilled in Iraq, compared to about 1 million wells in Texas alone.\n\nNatural hazards: dust storms, sandstorms, floods\n\nEnvironment - current issues: government water control projects have drained most of the inhabited marsh areas east of An Kshatriya by drying up or diverting the feeder streams and rivers; a once sizable population of Shi'a Muslims, who have inhabited these areas for thousands of years, has been displaced; furthermore, the destruction of the natural habitat poses serious threats to the area's wildlife populations; inadequate supplies of potable water; development of Tigris-Euphrates Rivers system contingent upon agreements with upstream riparian Turkey; air and water pollution; soil degradation (desalination) and erosion; and desertification.\n\nEnvironment - international agreements:<br>\n\"party to:\" Biodiversity, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection<br>\n\"signed, but not ratified:\" Environmental Modification\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8775013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8775013", "title": "Gil J Wolman", "text": "Gil J Wolman\n\nGil Joseph Wolman (Paris, 1929 – Paris, 1995) was a French artist. His work encompassed painting, poetry and film-making. He was a member of Isidore Isou's avant garde Letterist movement in the early 1950s, then becoming a central figure in the Letterist International, the group which would subsequently develop (without Wolman himself) into the Situationist International.\n\nWolman joined the Letterists in 1950, although he quit the group only two years later. His first published work appeared in the 1950 first issue of their journal \"Ur\", where his 'Introduction to Wolman' would set the scene for later creations: \"In the beginning, there was Wolman\"! While still in the group, Wolman would make two major contributions. First, in sound poetry, he devised the notion of the 'megapneume': while lettrism was based upon the letter, megapneumes were based upon the breath. Second, in film, he produced \"L'Anticoncept\", the work for which he is now primarily remembered. The film was shown for the first time on 11 February 1952 at the 'Avant-Garde 52' cinema club. It consisted of blank illumination projected onto a weather balloon, accompanied by a staccato spoken soundtrack. The film was banned by the French censors on 2 April 1952—when the Letterists visited the Cannes Film Festival the following month, they were forced to restrict the audience to journalists only. The text of the soundtrack was published in the sole issue of the Letterist journal \"Ion\" (1952; reprinted Jean-Paul Rocher, 1999), and later reissued in a separate edition augmented with associated texts (Editions Allia, 1994). \"Ion\" also included the text of Guy Debord's film \"Howls for Sade\", which was dedicated to Wolman and featured his voice in its own soundtrack.\n\nIn June 1952, Wolman and Debord formed the Letterist International, which, with Jean-Louis Brau and Serge Berna, would officially split from the main group that December. Wolman contributed several texts to the Letterist International's own bulletin, \"Potlatch\"; and, with Debord, he co-authored some of its most important texts, published in the Belgian surrealist review \"Les Lèvres Nues\" (Naked Lips). These included 'A User's Guide to Détournement' and 'Theory of the Dérive' (both 1956). The term \"détournement\" (literally 'diversion') signified the deliberate re-use of plagiarised material for a new and usually subversive purpose. The \"dérive\" ('drift') was a process of aimlessly wandering through urban environments in order to map their psychogeography.\n\nIn 1955, Wolman wrote Why Lettrism?, also with Guy Debord, published in \"Potlatch\" no. 22. The following year, he represented the Letterist International at the World Congress of Artists in Alba, Italy. This conference established important links between the Letterist International and those figures (primarily Asger Jorn and Pinot-Gallizio of the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus) who would soon afterwards be joining forces with it to form the Situationist International. Wolman himself, however, never made it as far as the Situationist International. He was officially excluded from the Letterist International on 13 January 1957, just six months before the creation of the new group, the exclusion being announced in obituary format in \"Potlatch\" no. 28. Debord seems to have been the driving force behind the exclusion, which did cause some consternation among his colleagues. Even Michèle Bernstein, Debord's wife at the time, has stated that she did not understand why Debord took so suddenly against Wolman. Jean-Michel Mension, an early member of the Letterist International, recalls that \"Gil was reticent, sweet—an incredibly sweet guy. I don't think I ever heard him actually raise his voice, except occasionally, except when he was reciting his poetry, but that was different. Everyone loved Gil.\" He also could not understand why Debord had excluded him, and observed: \"I think Wolman, in Guy's eyes, was a truly extraordinary artist, clearly superior to the other artists in the Letterist International. Personally, I've never believed in the exclusion of Gil.\". Ralph Rumney, an early member of the Situationist International, speculated that the real reason behind the exclusion was that Wolman and his wife, Violette, had just had a child: \"Guy, and Michèle for that matter, had an absolute horror of domesticity and babies in particular. They were trying to experiment with new ways of living, which for Guy meant total sexual freedom. Wolman's happy family life could not be tolerated.\"\n\nFollowing his exclusion, Wolman continued to develop his own work, and he re-established links with the original Letterist movement and exhibited with them from 1961 to 1964. He devised Scotch Art in 1963, a process which consists in tearing off bands of printed matter and using adhesive tape to reposition them on fabrics or wood. In 1964, however, he split again from Isou's group, to establish the short-lived Second Letterist International with Jean-Louis Brau and François Dufrêne; thereafter, Wolman worked largely in isolation. He later developed the \"separatist movement\", and series of \"dühring dühring\", \"decompositions\" and finally \"depicted painting\".\n\nThree years after his death, the magazine \"Poézi Prolétèr\" (No.2), directed by Katalin Molnar and Christophe Tarkos, published in 1998 an article on Wolman including several of his texts gathered under the title \"Introduction of the word\". Although at times often seen as a side-kick of Guy Debord, he is now regarded, along with Robert Filliou, as one of the more influential artists of his day. Wolman, however, who started a decade before Filliou, did not subscribe to Filliou's \"genius without talent\", but rather said that \"genius is what we all have when we stop improving one thing in order to make something else. When we only refuse to have talent\" (1964).\n\nSeveral of Wolman's audio recordings were published through Henri Chopin's journal, \"OU\"; and an l.p., \"L'Anticoncept\", was issued in 1999 by Alga Marghen, which gathered together various sound works from 1951 to 1972. A volume of his uncollected writings was published in 2001 by Editions Allia, \"Défense de mourir\". The first international retrospective of Wolman's works was held at MACBA (Barcelona, 2010) and Museu SERRALVES (Porto, 2011), curated by Frédéric Acquaviva, Bartomeu Mari and Joao Fernandes, with a catalogue \"Gil J Wolman, I am immortal and alive\" in 3 different versions : english, spanish-catalan, french-portuguese. The Centre Pompidou in Paris devoted a room to Wolman's works in 2015 while La Plaque Tournante, an independent art space in Berlin, programmed the first Wolman Retrospective in Germany with 500 works and documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "521371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521371", "title": "ISO 3166-2:BW", "text": "ISO 3166-2:BW\n\nISO 3166-2:BW is the entry for Botswana in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Botswana, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 10 districts, 4 towns, and 2 cities.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Botswana. The second part is two letters.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48177560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48177560", "title": "India Reloaded: Inside India’s Resurgent Consumer Market", "text": "India Reloaded: Inside India’s Resurgent Consumer Market\n\nIndia Reloaded: Inside India’s Resurgent Consumer Market is a 2015 book that was written by Dheeraj Sinha. It was first published on July 24, 2015, through Palgrave Macmillan and examines India's consumer market.\n\nIn the book Sinha reviews data from several outlets in order to examine success in the Indian consumer market. He also looks at several myths and contradictions surrounding this market and draws upon his own experiences.\n\n\"Brand Equity\" wrote a mostly favorable review, criticizing Sinha for utilizing \"bland business terms\" while commending him for the \"range and breadth of sources from which Dheeraj draws his data points, and mines them for insight.\" The \"Business Standard\" was mixed, writing \"Some parts of the book are a bit tedious, especially when the author discusses political developments in great detail and describes Hindi films to show how popular culture reflects the changed thinking of consumers. But one thing is certain - if you want to understand the Indian mindset and how consumer psychology works, the book provides the on-ground realities and challenges for brands.\"\n"}
{"id": "2403168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2403168", "title": "James Edward Alexander", "text": "James Edward Alexander\n\nGeneral Sir James Edward Alexander (16 October 1803 – 2 April 1885) was a Scottish traveller, author and soldier in the British Army.\n\nAlexander was the driving force behind the placement of Cleopatra's Needle on the Thames Embankment.\n\nBorn in Stirling, he was the eldest son of Edward Alexander of Powis, Clackmannanshire, and his second wife Catherine Glas, daughter of John Glas, Provost of Stirling. The family purchased Powis House near Stirling in 1808 from James Mayne (his uncle by marriage) for £26,500. His father, a banker, had to sell Powis House in 1827 on collapse of the Stirling Banking Company. He received his training in Edinburgh, Glasgow, and the Royal Military College, Sandhurst.\n\nIn 1837 he married Eveline Marie Mitchell, daughter of Col C. C. Mitchell of the Royal Artillery.\n\nIn 1853 he obtained Westerton House in Bridge of Allan, built in 1803 by Dr John Henderson of the East India Company (a cousin and friend). Here he became an elder of Logie Kirk, walking there each Sunday.\n\nHe died in Ryde on the Isle of Wight but is buried in Old Logie Churchyard just east of his home town of Stirling. The graveyard lies several hundred metres north of Logie Cemetery and the 19th century Logie Kirk.\n\nAfter his death his trustees sold Westerton House to Edmund Pullar.\n\nIn 1820, he joined the British East India Company's army, transferring into the British Army in 1825. As aide-de-camp to the British envoy to Persia, he witnessed fighting during the war between Persia and Russia in 1826 and in 1829 was present in the Balkans during the Russo-Turkish War, 1828-1829. From 1832 to 1834, he witnessed the War of the Two Brothers in Portugal, and in 1835 he took part in the 6th Cape Frontier War in South Africa as aide-de-camp and private secretary to Sir Benjamin d'Urban. He was the son-in-law of Charles Collier Michell, having married in Cape Town on 25 October 1837 his daughter Eveline Marie, born 16 April 1821.\n\nIn 1838, he was made a Knight Bachelor for his services. From 1841, he served in Canada, among others in the staff of Sir William Rowan. During the Crimean War, he commanded the 14th Regiment of Foot as lieutenant-colonel in the Siege of Sevastopol in 1855 and held an important command during the Land Wars in New Zealand in 1862. He retired from active service in 1877 and on 1 July 1881 was given the honorary rank of general.\n\nOn behalf of the Royal Geographical Society (which he had co-founded), he conducted an exploring expedition into Namaqualand and Damaraland, lasting from 8 September 1836 to 21 September 1837, in the course of which he collected rock specimens, pelts of rare animals, birdskins, weapons and implements from the Herero and Nama, as well as drawing maps of the region and making a first list of Herero words. Subsequently, Arrowsmith made use of his data to draw a map accompanying his book of the expedition. Alexander Bay on the Orange River mouth, is named after him. In 1877, he was largely responsible for the preservation and transfer of Cleopatra's Needle to England.\n\n"}
{"id": "18918819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18918819", "title": "Karaundzh, Azerbaijan", "text": "Karaundzh, Azerbaijan\n\nKaraundzh (also, K’arahunch’ and Karahoundge) is a village in the de facto Martuni Province of the Republic of Artsakh and de jure Khojavend Rayon of Azerbaijan.\n"}
{"id": "9516428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9516428", "title": "List of Canadian royal commissions", "text": "List of Canadian royal commissions\n\nThis is an incomplete list of Canadian royal commissions since Confederation. Royal commissions typically consist of a panel of experts appointed by the Governor General-in-Council to carry out full investigations into specific national problems. When this task is complete, the findings of the commission are then reported to the Cabinet for appropriate action. The Crown in right of each province can also appoint a royal commission, although they are not included in this list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10940181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10940181", "title": "List of birds of the Cook Islands", "text": "List of birds of the Cook Islands\n\nThis is a list of the bird species recorded in the Cook Islands. The avifauna of the Cook Islands include a total of 50 species, of which six are endemic, one has been introduced by humans and three are rare or accidental. Ten species are globally threatened. Birds described from subfossil remains that became extinct as a consequence of human settlement of the islands and the introduction of exotic mammals include the Mangaia rail (\"Gallirallus ripleyi\") and the Mangaia crake (\"Porzana rua\").\n\nThis list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) follow the conventions of \"The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World\", 6th edition. The family accounts at the beginning of each heading reflect this taxonomy, as do the species counts found in each family account. Introduced and accidental species are included in the total counts for the Cook Islands.\n\nThe following tags have been used to highlight several categories. Not all species fall into one of these categories. Those that do not are commonly occurring native species.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Diomedeidae\n\nThe albatrosses are among the largest of flying birds, and the great albatrosses from the genus \"Diomedea\" have the largest wingspans of any extant birds.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Procellariidae\n\nThe procellariids are the main group of medium-sized \"true petrels\", characterised by united nostrils with medium septum and a long outer functional primary.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Oceanitidae\n\nThe austral storm petrels are relatives of the petrels and are the smallest seabirds. They feed on planktonic crustaceans and small fish picked from the surface, typically while hovering. The flight is fluttering and sometimes bat-like.\n\n\nOrder: PhaethontiformesFamily: Phaethontidae\n\nTropicbirds are slender white birds of tropical oceans, with exceptionally long central tail feathers. Their heads and long wings have black markings. \n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Sulidae\n\nThe sulids comprise the gannets and boobies. Both groups are medium to large coastal seabirds that plunge-dive for fish.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Fregatidae\n\nFrigatebirds are large seabirds usually found over tropical oceans. They are large, black and white or completely black, with long wings and deeply forked tails. The males have coloured inflatable throat pouches. They do not swim or walk and cannot take off from a flat surface. Having the largest wingspan-to-body-weight ratio of any bird, they are essentially aerial, able to stay aloft for more than a week.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Ardeidae\n\nThe family Ardeidae contains the bitterns, herons and egrets. Herons and egrets are medium to large wading birds with long necks and legs. Bitterns tend to be shorter necked and more wary. Members of Ardeidae fly with their necks retracted, unlike other long-necked birds such as storks, ibises and spoonbills.\n\n\nOrder: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae\n\nAnatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, flattened bills, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to an oily coating.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Charadriidae\n\nThe family Charadriidae includes the plovers, dotterels and lapwings. They are small to medium-sized birds with compact bodies, short, thick necks and long, usually pointed, wings. They are found in open country worldwide, mostly in habitats near water.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Scolopacidae\n\nScolopacidae is a large diverse family of small to medium-sized shorebirds including the sandpipers, curlews, godwits, shanks, tattlers, woodcocks, snipes, dowitchers and phalaropes. The majority of these species eat small invertebrates picked out of the mud or soil. Variation in length of legs and bills enables multiple species to feed in the same habitat, particularly on the coast, without direct competition for food.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Laridae\n\nLaridae is a family of medium to large seabirds, the gulls, terns, and skimmers. Gulls are typically grey or white, often with black markings on the head or wings. They have stout, longish bills and webbed feet. Terns are a group of generally medium to large seabirds typically with grey or white plumage, often with black markings on the head. Most terns hunt fish by diving but some pick insects off the surface of fresh water. Terns are generally long-lived birds, with several species known to live in excess of 30 years.\n\n\nOrder: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.\n\n\nOrder: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittaculidae\n\n\nOrder: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae\n\nThe family Cuculidae includes cuckoos, roadrunners and anis. These birds are of variable size with slender bodies, long tails and strong legs. The Old World cuckoos are brood parasites.\n\n\nOrder: ApodiformesFamily: Apodidae\n\nSwifts are small birds which spend the majority of their lives flying. These birds have very short legs and never settle voluntarily on the ground, perching instead only on vertical surfaces. Many swifts have long swept-back wings which resemble a crescent or boomerang.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Alcedinidae\n\nKingfishers are medium-sized birds with large heads, long pointed bills, short legs and stubby tails.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Acrocephalidae\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Monarchidae\n\nThe monarch flycatchers are small to medium-sized insectivorous passerines which hunt by flycatching.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Sturnidae\n\nStarlings are small to medium-sized passerine birds. Their flight is strong and direct and they are very gregarious. Their preferred habitat is fairly open country. They eat insects and fruit. Plumage is typically dark with a metallic sheen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15303425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15303425", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of the Comoros", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of the Comoros\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions of Comoros, excluding honorary consulates. Comoros is a small island nation in the Indian Ocean just north of Madagascar. It has a very modest diplomatic presence worldwide. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52102875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52102875", "title": "List of international presidential trips made by Muhammadu Buhari", "text": "List of international presidential trips made by Muhammadu Buhari\n\nMuhammadu Buhari became President following the Nigerian general election, 2015. The following is a list of international presidential trips made by Muhammadu Buhari as the 15th President of Nigeria.\n\nHere is a summary of the countries President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria has visited as President. There are two trips that he made to the United Kingdom, one on his official vacation and one for medical treatment that are included in this list.\n\nThe following is a list of international presidential trips made by Buhari in 2015.\nThe following is a list of international presidential trips made by Buhari in 2016.\nThe following is a list of international presidential trips made by Buhari in 2017.\n\nThe following is a list of international presidential trips made by Buhari in 2018.\n"}
{"id": "52183954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52183954", "title": "List of lighthouses in the French Southern and Antarctic Lands", "text": "List of lighthouses in the French Southern and Antarctic Lands\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in French Southern and Antarctic Lands. \n\n"}
{"id": "24512228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24512228", "title": "List of mosques in the Arab League", "text": "List of mosques in the Arab League\n\nThis is a list of mosques in the Arab League.\n\nList of mosques in the United Arab Emirates\n"}
{"id": "22989239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22989239", "title": "List of newspapers in the Faroe Islands", "text": "List of newspapers in the Faroe Islands\n\nThere are several newspapers on the Faroe Islands, ranging from single man publications about local news to widely distributed publications reporting on international events and business news.\n\n\"Dimmalætting\" (Faroese for \"dawn\") is the oldest and largest newspaper of the Faroe Islands and is based in Tórshavn.\n\nThe first edition of the \"Dimma\", as it is commonly known, appeared (after a test issue on December 8, 1877) on January 5, 1878. Today it has a print run of 8,500 copies (in 1991 it was 13,300) and appears five days weekly. As an answer to competing papers, the Tuesday edition has been delivered free of charge to all households since April 5, 2005.\n\nSince the founding of the Unionist Party in 1906, \"Dimma\" was the party paper, but it has since declared itself independent 1995. However, as of 2005, the chief has still been an automatic member of the Unionist party leadership.\n\nThe name \"Dimmalætting\" combines the word \"dimmi\" (darkness) and \"lætting\", from the verb \"lætta\" (leave). \"Dimmið lættir\" means \"it is becoming daytime\", or literally, \"the darkness is dwindling\". The paper's name comes from Venceslaus Ulricus Hammershaimb, the creator of the modern orthography of Faroese.\n\nThe Danish name for the paper was the \"Amtstidene for Færøerne\" (\"official paper for the Faroese\"), and its Faroese name was printed in small letters. In its early years, the paper was only published in the Danish language. Then, from 1910 to 1947, it was printed in both languages, and in the years since 1947, Faroese has dominated.\n\nUntil 1911, when a Wednesday edition began, the paper only appeared on Saturdays. In the 1920s, the paper expanded to six pages from the previous four. After 1970, the page count rose to eight or more. A third edition was added, and from September 1996, it has appeared five times a week from Tuesday to Saturday. In November 2004, the days were changed to Monday to Friday. Since the middle of March 2005, it has appeared in a smaller format.\n\nThe newspaper went bankrupt and folded in October 2013.\n\n\"Local.fo\" is the only English-language news media in the Faroe Islands reporting Faroese news.\n\n\"Norðlýsið\" is a Faroese newspaper and in recent years also a newsportal, which has a mainly local northern islands focus on its news, with its base in Klaksvík.\n\n\"Oyggjatíðindi\" was a Faroese newspaper, and since 2011 it is an internet newsportal. It is written mainly by one man, Faroese reporter Dan Klein.\n\n\"Sosialurin\" is a Faroese newspaper, founded in 1927. Originally it was associated with the Social Democrats, but in 2006 the political party sold their part of the shares. The newspaper in partnership with Føroya Tele, a Faroese telecom, operates the website Portal.fo.\n\n\"Vikublaðið\" is a free Faroese weekly newspaper. In a national survey, it came out as the most read newspaper on the islands.\n\n\"Vinnuvitan\" was the only newspaper on the Faroe Islands that dealt with business issues exclusively. It now exists only on the internet. It was first published in December 2004. It was originally published every other week, but later the newspaper had grown in size and popularity and was published every Thursday for some years. In addition to the newspaper, \"Vinnuvitan\" was also a publishing house, releasing a small number of books each year, including \"Skipalistin\" and \"Okkara Sangbók\".\n\n\"Vinnuvitan\" was also the founder and organizer of the annual Faroese Advertising Awards (Kolan). It was chosen Best Achievement of 2006 (Ársins Átak) by the Faroese House of Industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37477918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37477918", "title": "List of people from Tangier", "text": "List of people from Tangier\n\nThis is a list of people from Tangier:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33326265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33326265", "title": "Lynne Frostick", "text": "Lynne Frostick\n\nLynne Elizabeth Frostick (born 2 February 1949) is a British geographer. She is currently Professor of Physical Geography at the University of Hull.\n\nShe was educated at Dartford Grammar School for Girls, the University of Leicester (BSc Geology, 1970), and completed her PhD in 1975 at the University of East Anglia entitled \"Sediment Studies in the Deben Estuary, Suffolk, England\". Her research interests include sediment and flow dynamics in rivers and estuaries and the interdisciplinary problems associated with waste. The physical modelling facility she has developed at The Deep is part of the EU HYDRALAB project. Activities outside of the university have included a seat on the editorial board of The Geographical Journal and chairing the government’s Expert Group for Women in STEM. In 2008 Frostick became President of the Geological Society of London and chair of the British Society for Geomorphology. She is a member of the government's science careers expert group. In 2009 she received a UKRC Women of Outstanding Achievement Award. Frostick has published over one hundred papers and books, crossing disciplines including physics, mathematics and engineering.\n"}
{"id": "261986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261986", "title": "Mongefossen", "text": "Mongefossen\n\nMongefossen () is a waterfall in the Rauma Municipality of Møre og Romsdal county, Norway. It is located near the European route E136 highway and the Rauma River, which it flows into. There is some dispute as to the height, but it is generally listed at . As is the case with many of Norway's waterfalls, it has been targeted for hydroelectric power, which results in a greatly diminished water flow during the summer tourist season.\n\nMongefossen also holds the distinction as being the highest waterfall in the world which may be viewed from a railway station on the Rauma Line, on the north side between the villages of Flatmark and Marstein.\n\n"}
{"id": "1642131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1642131", "title": "Mount Liamuiga", "text": "Mount Liamuiga\n\nMount Liamuiga is a stratovolcano which forms the western part of the island of Saint Kitts. The peak is the highest point on the island of Saint Kitts, in the federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis, and in the entire British Leeward Islands, as well as one of the tallest peaks in the eastern Caribbean archipelago. The peak is topped by a wide summit crater, which contained a shallow crater lake until 1959. As of 2006, the crater lake had re-formed. The last verified eruptions from the volcano were about 1,800 years ago, while reports of possible eruptions in 1692 and 1843 are considered uncertain.\n\nMount Liamuiga was formerly named Mount Misery. The renaming took place on the date of St. Kitts' independence, September 19, 1983. However, many older citizens still refer to it as Mount Misery. The name \"Liamuiga\" is derived from the Kalinago name for the entire island of St. Kitts, which means, \"fertile land.\"\n\nThe mountain sides are covered in farmland and small villages up to the height, after which lush tropical rainforests drape the slopes until cloud forest takes over at . Many tours and guided hikes are organized to the peak's summit and surrounding rainforests, usually starting from Belmont Estate in the village of St. Paul's. From the summit, the views are outstanding, including the entire island and the beautiful Caribbean Sea, as well as the neighbouring islands of Saba, Statia, St. Barths, St. Martin, Antigua, and Nevis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "517404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517404", "title": "Murray–Darling basin", "text": "Murray–Darling basin\n\nThe Murray–Darling basin is a large geographical area in the interior of southeastern Australia. Its name is derived from its two major rivers, the Murray River and the Darling River. The basin, which drains around one-seventh of the Australian land mass, is one of the most significant agricultural areas in Australia. It spans most of the states of New South Wales and Victoria, the Australian Capital Territory, and parts of the states of Queensland (lower third) and South Australia (southeastern corner). The basin is in length, with the Murray River being long.\n\nMost of the basin is flat, low-lying and far inland, and receives little direct rainfall. The many rivers it contains tend to be long and slow-flowing, and carry a volume of water that is large only by Australian standards.\n\nThe basin was once home to a large number of Aboriginal people whose traditional lifestyle and cultures were gradually destroyed by the arrival of Europeans. In addition, some were killed by English settlers. Although some tribes organized resistance, such as the Maraura, whose territory lay around the Rufus River above Renmark and the Tanganekald near The Coorong, they were eventually either killed, exiled, or succumbed to disease.\n\nThe Murray–Darling basin is home to many native animal species. The true numbers may not be known, but a fairly confident estimate has been made of these animals and the current status of their population. Among the aboriginal fauna in the region, the study found that there were:\n\n\nHistorical records show that the previous abundances of fish provided a reliable food source. The bountiful fish became concentrated when the early stages of a flood left shallow water across the floodplain. Today, roughly 24 native freshwater fish and another 15-25 marine and estuarine species are existent in the basin, a very low biodiversity. \n\nFour varieties of carp were used to stock up fish dams. Since then they have made their way into the river systems, where they spread quite quickly. Human introduction, possibly by anglers using small carp illegally as live bait has also increased their distribution. These fish are very mobile, breed rapidly and can survive in very shallow water and through long periods of very low dissolved oxygen content.\n\nCarp are a problem because they feed by sucking gravel from the riverbed and taking all the edible material off it, before returning the rest to the water. This stirs up all the sediment, reducing the quality of the water. A project for developing daughterless carp shows promise for eliminating carp from the river system.\n\nCane toads have entered the upper reaches of the Darling Basin and there are several reports of individuals being found further down the system. Cane toads compete with native amphibians and are toxic to native carnivores.\n\nThis area is one of the physiographic provinces of the larger East Australian basins division, and encompasses the smaller Naracoorte Platform and Encounter Shelf physiographic sections.\n\nTotal water flow in the Murray–Darling basin 1885 to the present has averaged around per year. This is the lowest rate of the world's major river systems. About 6.0 percent of Australia's total rainwater falls into the basin. In most years only half of this quantity reaches the sea and in dry years much less. Estimated total annual flows for the basin have ranged from in 1902 to in 1956. Despite the magnitude of the basin, the hydrology of the streams within it is quite varied. \n\nThese waters are divided into four types:\n\n\nThe two principal rivers of the basin, the Murray and Darling, bring water from the high ranges of the east and carry it west then south through long flat and dry inland areas. Nevertheless, these waters are subject to major diversions for municipal drinking supplies and irrigated agriculture that began in the 1890s. Currently, 4 major reservoirs, 14 lock and weir structures, and five coastal barrages interject the water flowing down the Murray-Darling. Of the approximately of flow in the basin, which studies have shown to be divertible, are removed for irrigation, industrial use, and domestic supply. Agricultural irrigation accounts for about 95 percent of the water removed, including for the growing of rice and cotton. This extraction is highly controversial among scientists in Australia, regarding the agriculture industry's high water use in a region extremely short of water (as much due to exceptionally low run-off coefficients as to low rainfall). These extensive irrigation systems require a reliable supply of water, not the unpredictable flows that characterize the Murray-Darling. These structures and irrigation implements were ideal when there was a steady flow of water. However, during “the Big Dry,” as the early 2000s drought came to be known, Australian farmers experienced a scarcity unlike ever before. The drought was so severe that numerous rivers and streams such as the Murray-Darling stopped flowing. The basin contains more than 30,000 wetlands. Eleven of these are protected under the Ramsar Convention of Wetlands of International Importance.\n\nThe rivers listed below comprise the Murray–Darling basin and its direct significant tributaries, with elevations of their confluence with the downstream river. The tributary with the highest elevation is Swampy Plain River that rises in the Snowy Mountains, below Mount Kosciuszko at an elevation of , and ends merging with the Murray River, descending .\n\nThe ordering of the basin, from downstream to upstream, is:\n\nThe basin covers five states and territory governments, who according to the Constitution, are responsible for managing water resources. The River Murray Commission was established in 1917. Under the River Murray Waters Agreement, which never included Queensland despite the state containing about a quarter of the basin, the Commission's role was only as an advisory body with no authority for the enforcement of provisions. For a long time the Commission was only concerned with water quantity until salinity became a problem. This led to minor reforms in 1982 in which water quality became part of the Commission's responsibilities. However, it was soon recognised that a new organisational structure which considered the national perspective was needed for effective management.\n\nThe Murray–Darling Basin Agreement was first adopted in 1985 but it wasn't until 1993 that its full legal status was enacted. The Agreement led to the creation of a number of new organisations under what is known as the Murray-Darling Basin Initiative. These included the Murray-Darling Basin Ministerial Council and the Murray Darling Basin Commission.\n\nThe Murray-Darling Basin Plan was signed off by Tony Burke, Minister for Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and Communities on 22 November 2012, and passed disallowance period in the Australian Parliament on the 19 March 2013. Following is the history leading up to this significant occasion in the history of Australian water reform.\n\nIn October 2010, in response to the 2000s Australian drought, the Murray–Darling Basin Authority released a draft plan to secure the long-term ecological health of the Murray–Darling Basin. This entailed cutting existing water allocations and increasing environmental flows. The document is officially titled the \"Guide to the Proposed Murray–Darling Basin Plan\". It is the first part of a three-stage process to address the problems of the Murray–Darling Basin. MDBA is responsible for preparing and overseeing a legally-enforceable management plan — the Basin Plan.\n\nThe Basin Plan is designed to set environmentally sustainable limits on the quantities of water that may be taken from Basin water resources, to set Basin-wide environmental, water quality and salinity objectives, to develop efficient water trading regimes across the Basin, to set requirements for state water resource plans and to improve water security for all Basin users. It also intends to minimise social and economic impacts whilst achieving the plan's environmental outcomes.\n\nWith the release of the \"Guide to the Proposed Murray–Darling Basin Plan\" there have been a number of protests and voiced concerns about the plan in rural towns that the MDBA visited to present the plan to consultation meetings. More than 5,000 people attended a MDBA meeting in Griffith where Griffith Mayor, Mike Neville, said the plan would \"obliterate\" Murrumbidgee valley communities. Other groups also echo this feeling, such as the Victorian Farmers Federation and Wine Group Growers' Australia. Conversely, support for the Murray–Darling Basin plan has been received by various groups, including Australian Conservation Foundation, and Environment Victoria.\n\nNew legal advice from the lawyers of the Federal Government is changing the plan. The Government's interpretation is that the plan must give equal weight to the environmental, social, and economic impacts of proposed cuts to irrigation.\n\nEnvironmentalists and South Australian irrigators, at the end of the river in South Australia, say that the authority should stick to its original figure.\n\nIn October 2010, a parliamentary inquiry into the economic impacts of the plan was announced.\n\nIn late October 2010 the Water Minister, Tony Burke, played down the prospect of a High Court challenge to the Murray–Darling Basin plan, as confusion continued over new legal advice released by the Government. In response to community concerns that the Murray–Darling Basin Authority had put environmental issues first over social and economic needs, Burke released new advice on the requirements of the Water Act. Burke stated that the Act does allow for the authority to \"optimise\" the needs of all three areas, but constitutional lawyer, George Williams, had cast doubts over the interpretation of the laws, stating it could be subject to a legal challenge.\n\nThe MDBA announced in November 2010 that it might be forced to push back the release of its final plan for the river system until early 2012.\n\nThe then MDBA chairman, Mike Taylor, reassured the public meeting that more work is being done to look at how the proposed cuts would affect regional communities. He stated; \"Importantly, we want to make sure the social and economic impacts—which under any sort of scenario is very significant—were fully teased out\". Taylor resigned as he allegedly believed that the overriding principle should be the environmental outcome which was in conflict with the Gillard Government and following a period of sustained criticism of the Authority and the implementation of the proposed draft basin plan. He was replaced by former New South Wales Planning Minister, Craig Knowles.\n\nIn late May 2012, the revised plan was forwarded to state water ministers. It did not alter the recommendation to cut of water entitlements.\n\nFollowing much negotiation between the Commonwealth and State governments and numerous submissions from interested stakeholders and the community, the Basin Plan became law in November 2012 and can now be implemented.\n\nAlthough the Murray-Darling Basin Plan (MDBP) is a towards sustainability the measures keep a significant risk of human activities exacerbating the drought risk (see River Murray which has only dried up twice since records began). The Environmental Water Requirement found that a reduction in allocations of (per year) is required to be certain that the river systems would maintain their health. However objectors cite socio-economic impacts of major cutbacks to the widescale farming (and in some areas wine-growing) in the basin, and conclude that within plans for population growth, particularly in times of drought, may be a need for sustainable water transportation from new extraction from rivers in the wettest part of the country, the Cape York Peninsula or more desalination.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16614069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16614069", "title": "Nafpliotis", "text": "Nafpliotis\n\nNafpliotis () is a Greek surname which means \"descending from Nafplio\" (toponymic surname). The female equivalent is Nafpliotou (. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "21247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21247", "title": "Neil Armstrong", "text": "Neil Armstrong\n\nNeil Alden Armstrong (August 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012) was an American astronaut and aeronautical engineer who was the first person to walk on the Moon. He was also a naval aviator, test pilot, and university professor.\n\nA graduate of Purdue University, Armstrong studied aeronautical engineering with his college tuition paid for by the U.S. Navy under the Holloway Plan. He became a midshipman in 1949, and a naval aviator the following year. He saw action in the Korean War, flying the Grumman F9F Panther from the aircraft carrier . In September 1951, he was hit by anti-aircraft fire while making a low bombing run, and was forced to bail out. After the war, he completed his bachelor's degree at Purdue and became a test pilot at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) High-Speed Flight Station at Edwards Air Force Base in California. He was the project pilot on Century Series fighters and flew the North American X-15 seven times. He was also a participant in the U.S. Air Force's Man in Space Soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar human spaceflight programs.\n\nArmstrong joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in the second group, which was selected in 1962. He made his first spaceflight as commander of Gemini 8 in March 1966, becoming NASA's first civilian astronaut to fly in space. During this mission with pilot David Scott, he performed the first docking of two spacecraft; the mission was aborted after Armstrong used some of his reentry control fuel to remove a dangerous spin caused by a stuck thruster. During training for Armstrong's second and last spaceflight as commander of Apollo 11, he had to eject from the Lunar Landing Research Vehicle moments before a fiery crash.\n\nIn July 1969, Armstrong and Apollo 11 Lunar Module pilot Buzz Aldrin performed the first manned Moon landing, and spent two and a half hours outside the spacecraft while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the Command/Service Module. When Armstrong stepped onto the lunar surface, he famously said: \"That's one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind.\" Along with Collins and Aldrin, Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Richard Nixon. President Jimmy Carter presented Armstrong with the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1978, and Armstrong and his former crewmates received a Congressional Gold Medal in 2009.\n\nAfter he resigned from NASA in 1971, Armstrong taught in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at the University of Cincinnati until 1979. He served on the Apollo 13 accident investigation, and on the Rogers Commission, which investigated the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" disaster. He acted as a spokesman for several businesses, and appeared in advertising for the automotive brand Chrysler starting in January 1979.\n\nArmstrong was born on August 5, 1930, near Wapakoneta, Ohio, to Stephen Koenig Armstrong and Viola Louise Engel. He was of German, Scottish and Scots-Irish ancestry, and had a younger sister, June, and a younger brother, Dean. His father worked as an auditor for the Ohio state government, and the family moved around the state repeatedly, living in sixteen towns over the next fourteen years. Armstrong's love for flying grew during this time, having started early when his father took his two-year-old son to the Cleveland Air Races. When he was five or six, he experienced his first airplane flight in Warren, Ohio, when he and his father took a ride in a Ford Trimotor, also known as the \"Tin Goose\".\n\nHis father's last move was in 1944, back to Wapakoneta. Armstrong attended Blume High School, and took flying lessons at the grassy Wapakoneta airfield. He earned a student flight certificate on his sixteenth birthday, then soloed in August, all before he had a driver's license. He was active in the Boy Scouts and earned the rank of Eagle Scout. As an adult, he was recognized by the Boy Scouts of America with its Distinguished Eagle Scout Award and Silver Buffalo Award. On July 18, 1969, while flying toward the Moon, Armstrong greeted the Scouts. Among the few personal items that he carried with him to the Moon and back was a World Scout Badge.\n\nIn 1947, at age 17, Armstrong began studying aeronautical engineering at Purdue University. He was the second person in his family to attend college. He was also accepted to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), but an uncle who had attended MIT dissuaded him from attending, telling him that it was not necessary to go all the way to Cambridge, Massachusetts, for a good education. His college tuition was paid for under the Holloway Plan. Successful applicants committed to two years of study, followed by two years of flight training and one year of service in the U.S. Navy as an aviator, then completion of the final two years of their bachelor's degree. He did not take courses in naval science, nor did he join the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps at Purdue.\n\nArmstrong's call-up from the Navy arrived on January 26, 1949, requiring him to report to Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida for flight training with class 5-49. After passing the medical examinations, he became a midshipman on February 24, 1949. Flight training was conducted in a North American SNJ trainer, in which he soloed on September 9, 1949. On March 2, 1950, he made his first aircraft carrier landing on the , an achievement he considered comparable to his first solo flight. He was then sent to Naval Air Station Corpus Christi in Texas for training on the Grumman F8F Bearcat, culminating in a carrier landing on the . On August 16, 1950, Armstrong was informed by letter that he was a fully qualified naval aviator. His mother and sister attended his graduation ceremony on August 23, 1950.\n\nArmstrong's assignment was to Fleet Aircraft Service Squadron 7 (FASRON 7) at NAS San Diego (now known as NAS North Island). On November 27, 1950, he was assigned to VF-51, an all-jet squadron, becoming its youngest officer, and made his first flight in a jet, a Grumman F9F Panther, on January 5, 1951. He was promoted to ensign on June 5, 1951, and made his first jet carrier landing on two days later. On June 28, 1951, \"Essex\" had set sail for Korea, with VF-51 aboard to act as ground-attack aircraft. VF-51 flew ahead to Naval Air Station Barbers Point in Hawaii, where it conducted fighter-bomber training before rejoining the ship at the end of July.\n\nOn August 29, 1951, Armstrong saw action in the Korean War as an escort for a photo reconnaissance plane over Songjin. Five days later, on September 3, he flew armed reconnaissance over the primary transportation and storage facilities south of the village of Majon-ni, west of Wonsan. Making a low bombing run at , Armstrong's F9F Panther was hit by anti-aircraft fire. While trying to regain control, he collided with a pole at a height of , which sliced off of the Panther's right wing.\nArmstrong flew the plane back to friendly territory, but due to the loss of the aileron, ejection was his only safe option. He intended to eject over water and await rescue by Navy helicopters, but his parachute was blown back over land. A jeep driven by a roommate from flight school picked him up; it is unknown what happened to the wreckage of his aircraft, F9F-2 BuNo \"125122\".\n\nIn all, Armstrong flew 78 missions over Korea for a total of 121 hours in the air, a third of them in January 1952, with the final mission on March 5, 1952. Of 492 U.S. Navy personnel killed in the Korean War, 27 of them were from the \"Essex\" on this war cruise. Armstrong received the Air Medal for 20 combat missions, two gold stars for the next 40, the Korean Service Medal and Engagement Star, the National Defense Service Medal and the United Nations Korea Medal. His regular commission was terminated on February 25, 1952, and he became an ensign in the United States Navy Reserve. On completion of his combat tour with \"Essex\", he was assigned to a transport squadron, VR-32, in May 1952. He was released from active duty on August 23, 1952, but remained in the reserves, and was promoted to lieutenant (junior grade) on May 9, 1953. As a reservist, he continued to fly, with VF-724 at Naval Air Station Glenview in Illinois, and then, after moving to California, with VF-773 at Naval Air Station Los Alamitos. He remained in the reserve for eight years, before resigning his commission on October 21, 1960.\n\nAfter his service with the Navy, Armstrong returned to Purdue. His previously earned good but not outstanding grades now improved, lifting his final Grade Point Average (GPA) to a respectable but not outstanding 4.8 out of 6.0. He pledged the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, and lived in its fraternity house. He wrote and co-directed two musicals as part of the all-student revue. The first was a version of \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarves\", co-directed with his girlfriend Joanne Alford from the Alpha Chi Omega sorority, with songs from the Walt Disney film, including \"Someday My Prince Will Come\"; the second was titled \"The Land of Egelloc\", with music from Gilbert and Sullivan but new lyrics. He was chairman of the Purdue Aero Flying Club, and flew the club's aircraft, an Aeronca and a couple of Pipers, which were kept at nearby Aretz Airport in Lafayette, Indiana. Flying the Aeronca to Wapakoneta in 1954, he damaged it in a rough landing in a farmer's field, and it had to be hauled back to Lafayette on a trailer. He was a baritone player in the Purdue All-American Marching Band. Ten years later he was made an honorary member of Kappa Kappa Psi national band honorary fraternity. Armstrong graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Aeronautical Engineering in January 1955. In 1970 he completed his Master of Science degree in Aerospace Engineering at the University of Southern California (USC). He would eventually be awarded honorary doctorates by several universities.\n\nArmstrong met Janet Elizabeth Shearon, who was majoring in home economics, at a party hosted by Alpha Chi Omega. According to the couple, there was no real courtship, and neither could remember the exact circumstances of their engagement. They were married on January 28, 1956, at the Congregational Church in Wilmette, Illinois. When he moved to Edwards Air Force Base, he lived in the bachelor quarters of the base, while Janet lived in the Westwood district of Los Angeles. After one semester, they moved into a house in Antelope Valley. Janet did not finish her degree, a fact she regretted later in life. The couple had three children: Eric, Karen, and Mark. In June 1961, Karen was diagnosed with a malignant tumor of the middle part of her brain stem; X-ray treatment slowed its growth, but her health deteriorated to the point where she could no longer walk or talk. She died of pneumonia, related to her weakened health, on January 28, 1962, aged two.\n\nFollowing his graduation from Purdue, Armstrong became an experimental research test pilot. He applied at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) High-Speed Flight Station at Edwards Air Force Base. NACA had no open positions, and forwarded his application to the Lewis Flight Propulsion Laboratory in Cleveland, where Armstrong made his first test flight on March 1, 1955. Armstrong's stint at Cleveland lasted only a couple of months before a position at the High-Speed Flight Station became available, and he reported for work there on July 11, 1955.\nOn his first day, Armstrong was tasked with piloting chase planes during releases of experimental aircraft from modified bombers. He also flew the modified bombers, and on one of these missions had his first flight incident at Edwards. On March 22, 1956, he was in a Boeing B-29 Superfortress, which was to air-drop a Douglas D-558-2 Skyrocket. He sat in the right-hand pilot seat while the left-hand seat commander, Stan Butchart, flew the B-29.\n\nAs they climbed to , the number-four engine stopped and the propeller began windmilling (rotating freely) in the airstream. Hitting the switch that would stop the propeller's spinning, Butchart found it slowed but then started spinning again, this time even faster than the others; if it spun too fast, it would break apart. Their aircraft needed to hold an airspeed of to launch its Skyrocket payload, and the B-29 could not land with the Skyrocket attached to its belly. Armstrong and Butchart brought the aircraft into a nose-down attitude to increase speed, then launched the Skyrocket. At the instant of launch, the number-four engine propeller disintegrated. Pieces of it damaged the number-three engine and hit the number-two engine. Butchart and Armstrong were forced to shut down the damaged number-three engine, along with the number-one engine, due to the torque it created. They made a slow, circling descent from using only the number-two engine, and landed safely.\n\nArmstrong served as project pilot on Century Series fighters, including the North American F-100 Super Sabre A and C variants, the McDonnell F-101 Voodoo, the Lockheed F-104 Starfighter, the Republic F-105 Thunderchief and the Convair F-106 Delta Dart. He also flew the Douglas DC-3, Lockheed T-33 Shooting Star, North American F-86 Sabre, McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II, Douglas F5D-1 Skylancer, Boeing B-29 Superfortress, Boeing B-47 Stratojet and Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker, and was one of eight elite pilots involved in the Parasev paraglider research vehicle program. Over his career, he flew more than 200 different models of aircraft. His first flight in a rocket-powered aircraft was on August 15, 1957, in the Bell X-1B, to an altitude of . On landing, the poorly designed nose landing gear failed, as had happened on about a dozen previous flights of the Bell X-1B. He flew the North American X-15 seven times, including the first flight with the Q-ball system, the first flight of the number 3 X-15 airframe, and the first flight of the MH-96 adaptive flight control system. He became an employee of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) when it was established on October 1, 1958, absorbing NACA.\n\nArmstrong was involved in several incidents that went down in Edwards folklore or were chronicled in the memoirs of colleagues. During his sixth X-15 flight on April 20, 1962, when Armstrong was testing the MH-96 control system, he flew to a height of over (the highest he flew before Gemini 8). He held up the aircraft nose for too long during its descent to demonstrate the MH-96's g-limiting performance, and the X-15 ballooned back up to around . He flew past the landing field at Mach 3 at over in altitude, and ended up south of Edwards. After sufficient descent, he turned back toward the landing area, and landed, just missing Joshua trees at the south end. It was the longest X-15 flight in both flight time and length of the ground track.\n\nMany of the test pilots at Edwards praised Armstrong's engineering ability. Milt Thompson said he was \"the most technically capable of the early X-15 pilots\". Bill Dana said Armstrong \"had a mind that absorbed things like a sponge\". Those who flew for the Air Force tended to have a different opinion, especially people like Yeager and Pete Knight, who did not have engineering degrees. Knight said that pilot-engineers flew in a way that was \"more mechanical than it is flying\", and gave this as the reason why some pilot-engineers got into trouble: their flying skills did not come naturally. Armstrong made seven flights in the X-15 between November 30, 1960, and July 26, 1962. He reached a top speed of Mach 5.74 () in the X-15-1, and left the Flight Research Center with a total of 2,400 flying hours.\n\nOn April 24, 1962, Armstrong flew for the only time with Chuck Yeager. Their job, flying a T-33, was to evaluate Smith Ranch Dry Lake in Nevada for use as an emergency landing site for the X-15. In his autobiography, Yeager wrote that he knew the lake bed was unsuitable for landings after recent rains, but Armstrong insisted on flying out anyway. As they attempted a touch-and-go, the wheels became stuck and they had to wait for rescue. As Armstrong told the story, Yeager never tried to talk him out of it and they made a first successful landing on the east side of the lake. Then Yeager told him to try again, this time a bit slower. On the second landing, they became stuck, provoking Yeager to fits of laughter.\n\nOn May 21, 1962, Armstrong was involved in the \"Nellis Affair\". He was sent in an F-104 to inspect Delamar Dry Lake in southern Nevada, again for emergency landings. He misjudged his altitude, and did not realize that the landing gear had not fully extended. As he touched down, the landing gear began to retract; Armstrong applied full power to abort the landing, but the ventral fin and landing gear door struck the ground, damaging the radio and releasing hydraulic fluid. Without radio communication, Armstrong flew south to Nellis Air Force Base, past the control tower, and waggled his wings, the signal for a no-radio approach. The loss of hydraulic fluid caused the tailhook to release, and upon landing, he caught the arresting wire attached to an anchor chain, and dragged the chain along the runway.\n\nIt took thirty minutes to clear the runway and rig another arresting cable. Armstrong telephoned Edwards and asked for someone to collect him. Milt Thompson was sent in an F-104B, the only two-seater available, but a plane Thompson had never flown. With great difficulty, Thompson made it to Nellis, where a strong crosswind caused a hard landing and the left main tire suffered a blowout. The runway was again closed to clear it, and Bill Dana was sent to Nellis in a T-33, but he almost landed long. The Nellis base operations office then decided that to avoid any further problems, it would be best to find the three NASA pilots ground transport back to Edwards.\n\nIn June 1958, Armstrong was selected for the U.S. Air Force's Man In Space Soonest program, but the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) cancelled its funding on August 1, 1958, and on November 5, 1958, it was superseded by Project Mercury, a civilian project run by NASA. As a NASA civilian test pilot, Armstrong was ineligible to become one of its astronauts at this time, as selection was restricted to military test pilots. In November 1960, he was chosen as part of the pilot consultant group for the X-20 Dyna-Soar, a military space plane under development by Boeing for the U.S. Air Force, and on March 15, 1962, he was selected by the U.S. Air Force as one of seven pilot-engineers who would fly the X-20 when it got off the design board.\n\nIn April 1962, NASA announced that applications were being sought for the second group of NASA astronauts for Project Gemini, a proposed two-man spacecraft. This time, selection was open to qualified civilian test pilots. Armstrong visited the Seattle World's Fair in May 1962, and attended a conference there on space exploration that was co-sponsored by NASA. After he returned from Seattle on June 4, he applied to become an astronaut. His application arrived about a week past the June 1, 1962, deadline, but Dick Day, a flight simulator expert with whom Armstrong had worked closely at Edwards, saw the late arrival of the application and slipped it into the pile before anyone noticed. At Brooks Air Force Base at the end of June, Armstrong underwent a medical exam that many of the applicants described as painful and at times seemingly pointless.\n\nNASA's Director of Flight Crew Operations, Deke Slayton, called Armstrong on September 13, 1962, and asked whether he would be interested in joining the NASA Astronaut Corps as part of what the press dubbed \"the New Nine\"; without hesitation, Armstrong said yes. The selections were kept secret until three days later, although newspaper reports had been circulating since earlier that year that he would be selected as the \"first civilian astronaut\". Armstrong was one of two civilian pilots selected for this group; the other was Elliot See, another former naval aviator. NASA publicly announced the selection of the second group at a press conference on September 17, 1962. Compared with the Mercury Seven astronauts, they were younger, and had more impressive academic credentials.\n\nOn February 8, 1965, Armstrong and Elliot See were announced as the backup crew for Gemini 5, with Armstrong as its commander, supporting the prime crew of Gordon Cooper and Pete Conrad. The purpose of the mission was to practice space rendezvous and to develop procedures and equipment for a long-duration flight of seven days. These would be required for a mission to the Moon. With two other flights (Gemini 3 and Gemini 4) in preparation, there were six crews competing for simulator time, resulting in Gemini 5 being postponed. The mission lifted off on August 21. Armstrong and See watched the launch at Cape Kennedy, and then flew to the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston. The mission was generally successful, despite a problem with the fuel cells that prevented a rendezvous. Cooper and Conrad practiced a \"phantom rendezvous\", carrying out the maneuver without a target.\n\nThe crew assignments for Gemini 8 were announced on September 20, 1965. Under the normal rotation system, the backup crew for one mission would become the prime crew for the third mission after, but Slayton designated David Scott as the pilot of Gemini 8. Scott was the first member of the third group of astronauts, whose selection was announced on October 18, 1963, to receive a prime crew assignment. See was designated to command Gemini 9. Henceforth, each Gemini mission would be commanded by a member of Armstrong's group, with a member of Scott's group as the pilot. Conrad would be Armstrong's backup this time, with Richard F. Gordon Jr. as his pilot. Armstrong became the first American civilian in space; Valentina Tereshkova of the Soviet Union had become the first civilian (and first woman) nearly three years earlier aboard Vostok 6 when it launched on June 16, 1963. Armstrong would also be the last of his group to fly in space, as See died in a T-38 crash on February 28, 1966, that also took the life of crewmate Charles Bassett. They were replaced by the backup crew of Tom Stafford and Gene Cernan, while Jim Lovell and Buzz Aldrin moved up from the backup crew of Gemini 10 to become the backup for Gemini 9, and would eventually fly Gemini 12.\n\nGemini 8 launched on March 16, 1966. It was to be the most complex yet, with a rendezvous and docking with an unmanned Agena target vehicle, and the second American extravehicular activity (EVA) by Scott. In total, the mission was planned to last 75 hours and 55 orbits. After the Agena lifted off at 10:00:00 EST, the Titan II rocket carrying Armstrong and Scott ignited at 11:41:02 EST, putting them into an orbit from which they chased the Agena. They achieved the first-ever docking between two spacecraft in orbit. Contact with the crew was intermittent due to the lack of tracking stations covering their entire orbits. Out of contact with the ground, the docked spacecraft began to roll, and Armstrong attempted to correct this with the Orbit Attitude and Maneuvering System (OAMS) of the Gemini spacecraft. Following the earlier advice of Mission Control, they undocked, but found that the roll increased dramatically to the point where they were turning about once per second, indicating a problem with Gemini's attitude control. Armstrong engaged the Reentry Control System (RCS) and turned off the OAMS. Mission rules dictated that once this system was turned on, the spacecraft had to re-enter at the next possible opportunity. It was later thought that damaged wiring caused one of the thrusters to become stuck in the on position.\nThere were a few people in the Astronaut Office, including Walter Cunningham, who felt that Armstrong and Scott \"had botched their first mission\". There was speculation that Armstrong could have salvaged the mission if he had turned on only one of the two RCS rings, saving the other for mission objectives. These criticisms were unfounded; no malfunction procedures had been written, and it was only possible to turn on both RCS rings, not just one or the other. Gene Kranz wrote, \"the crew reacted as they were trained, and they reacted wrong because we trained them wrong.\" The mission planners and controllers had failed to realize that when two spacecraft are docked together, they must be considered to be one spacecraft. Kranz considered this the most important lesson. Armstrong himself was depressed that the mission had been cut short, canceling most mission objectives and robbing Scott of his EVA. The Agena was later re-used as a docking target by Gemini 10. Armstrong and Scott received the NASA Exceptional Service Medal, and the Air Force awarded Scott the Distinguished Flying Cross as well. Scott was promoted to lieutenant colonel, and Armstrong received a $678 raise in pay to $21,653 a year (), making him NASA's highest paid astronaut.\n\nThe final assignment for Armstrong in the Gemini program was as the back-up Command Pilot for Gemini 11, announced two days after the landing of Gemini 8. Having trained for two flights, Armstrong was quite knowledgeable about the systems and took on a teaching role for the rookie backup Pilot, William Anders. The launch was on September 12, 1966, with Conrad and Gordon on board, who successfully completed the mission objectives, while Armstrong served as a capsule communicator (CAPCOM).\n\nFollowing the flight, President Lyndon B. Johnson asked Armstrong and his wife to take part in a 24-day goodwill tour of South America. Also on the tour, which took in 11 countries and 14 major cities, were Dick Gordon, George Low, their wives, and other government officials. In Paraguay, Armstrong greeted dignitaries in their local language, Guarani; in Brazil he talked about the exploits of the Brazilian-born Alberto Santos-Dumont.\n\nOn January 27, 1967, the date of the Apollo 1 fire, Armstrong was in Washington, DC, with Cooper, Gordon, Lovell and Scott Carpenter for the signing of the United Nations Outer Space Treaty. The astronauts chatted with the assembled dignitaries until 18:45, when Carpenter went to the airport, and the others returned to the Georgetown Inn, where they each found messages to phone the Manned Spacecraft Center. During these telephone calls, they learned of the deaths of Gus Grissom, Ed White and Roger Chaffee in the fire. Armstrong and the group spent the rest of the night drinking scotch and discussing what had happened.\nOn April 5, 1967, the same day the Apollo 1 investigation released its final report on the fire, Armstrong assembled with 17 other astronauts for a meeting with Slayton. The first thing Slayton said was, \"The guys who are going to fly the first lunar missions are the guys in this room.\" According to Cernan, one of the astronauts present, Armstrong showed no reaction to the statement. To Armstrong it came as no surprise—the room was full of veterans of Project Gemini, the only people who could fly the lunar missions. Slayton talked about the planned missions and named Armstrong to the backup crew for Apollo 9, which at that stage was planned to be a medium Earth orbit test of the Lunar Module–Command/Service Module combination.\n\nThis crew assignment was officially announced on November 20, 1967. For crewmates, he was assigned Lovell and Aldrin, the crew of Gemini 12. After design and manufacturing delays in the Lunar Module (LM), Apollo 8 and Apollo 9 swapped prime and backup crews. Based on the normal crew rotation scheme, Armstrong would command Apollo 11. There would be one change. Mike Collins on the Apollo 8 crew began experiencing trouble with his legs. Doctors diagnosed the problem as a bony growth between his fifth and sixth vertebrae, requiring surgery. Lovell took his place on the Apollo 8 crew, and, when he recovered, Collins joined Armstrong's crew.\n\nTo give the astronauts experience with how the LM would fly on its final landing descent, NASA commissioned Bell Aircraft to build two Lunar Landing Research Vehicles (LLRV), later augmented with three Lunar Landing Training Vehicles (LLTV). Nicknamed the \"Flying Bedsteads\", they simulated the Moon's one-sixth of Earth's gravity by using a turbofan engine to support five-sixths of the craft's weight. On May 6, 1968, above the ground, Armstrong's controls started to degrade and the LLRV began rolling. He ejected safely. Later analysis suggested that if he had ejected half a second later, his parachute would not have opened in time. His only injury was from biting his tongue. The LLRV was completely destroyed. Even though he was nearly killed, Armstrong maintained that without the LLRV and LLTV, the lunar landings would not have been successful, as they gave commanders valuable experience in the behavior of lunar landing craft.\n\nIn addition to the LLRV training, NASA began lunar landing simulator training after Apollo 10 was completed. Aldrin and Armstrong worked with the instructors to train for the most feasible possibilities they could encounter during a real lunar landing. The pair only made time to go on one geological expedition, to the mountains of west Texas. The press found out, and filled the area with cars and a helicopter, which made it hard for the astronauts to hear the geologist. They also received briefings from geologists while at NASA.\n\nAfter Armstrong served as backup commander for Apollo 8, Slayton offered him the post of commander of Apollo 11 on December 23, 1968, as Apollo 8 orbited the Moon. In a meeting that was not made public until the publication of Armstrong's biography in 2005, Slayton told him that although the planned crew was Armstrong as Commander, Lunar Module (LM) Pilot Buzz Aldrin and Command Module (CM) Pilot Michael Collins, he was offering Armstrong the chance to replace Aldrin with Jim Lovell. After thinking it over for a day, Armstrong told Slayton he would stick with Aldrin, as he had no difficulty working with him and thought Lovell deserved his own command. Replacing Aldrin with Lovell would have made Lovell the Lunar Module Pilot, unofficially the lowest ranked member, and Armstrong could not justify placing Lovell, the commander of Gemini 12, in the number 3 position of the crew. The crew of Apollo 11 was officially announced on January 9, 1969, as Armstrong, Collins and Aldrin, with Lovell, Anders and Fred Haise as the backup crew.\n\nAccording to Chris Kraft, a March 1969 meeting between Slayton, George Low, Bob Gilruth and Kraft determined that Armstrong would be the first person on the Moon, in part because NASA management saw him as a person who did not have a large ego. A press conference on April 14, 1969, gave the design of the LM cabin as the reason for Armstrong's being first; the hatch opened inwards and to the right, making it difficult for the Lunar Module Pilot, on the right-hand side, to exit first. At the time of their meeting, the four men did not know about the hatch consideration. The first knowledge of the meeting outside the small group came when Kraft wrote his book. Methods of circumventing this difficulty existed, but it is not known if these were considered at the time. Slayton added, \"Secondly, just on a pure protocol basis, I figured the commander ought to be the first guy out ... I changed it as soon as I found they had the time line that showed that. Bob Gilruth approved my decision.\"\n\nA Saturn V rocket launched Apollo 11 from Launch Complex 39 site at the Kennedy Space Center on July 16, 1969, at 13:32:00 UTC (09:32:00 EDT local time). Armstrong's wife Janet and two sons watched from a yacht moored on the Banana River. During the launch, Armstrong's heart rate peaked at 110 beats per minute. He found the first stage to be the loudest—much noisier than the Gemini 8 Titan II launch. The Apollo CM was relatively roomy compared to the Gemini spacecraft. None of the Apollo 11 crew suffered from space sickness, as some members of previous crews had. Armstrong was especially happy, as he had been prone to motion sickness as a child and could experience nausea after doing long periods of aerobatics.\nThe objective of Apollo 11 was to land safely rather than to touch down with precision on a particular spot. Three minutes into the lunar descent burn, Armstrong noted that craters were passing about two seconds too early, which meant the LM \"Eagle\" would probably touch down several miles beyond the planned landing zone. As the \"Eagle\"s landing radar acquired the surface, several computer error alarms appeared. The first was a code 1202 alarm, and even with their extensive training, neither Armstrong nor Aldrin was aware of what this code meant. They promptly received word from CAPCOM Charles Duke in Houston that the alarms were not a concern; the 1202 and 1201 alarms were caused by an executive overflow in the Lunar Module computer. As described by Buzz Aldrin in the documentary \"In the Shadow of the Moon\", the overflow condition was caused by his own counter-checklist choice of leaving the docking radar on during the landing process, so the computer had to process unnecessary radar data and did not have enough time to execute all tasks, dropping lower-priority ones. Aldrin stated that he did so with the objective of facilitating re-docking with the CM should an abort become necessary, not realizing that it would cause the overflow condition.\n\nWhen Armstrong noticed they were heading toward a landing area which he believed was unsafe, he took over manual control of the LM, and attempted to find an area which seemed safer, taking longer than expected, and longer than most simulations had taken. For this reason, there was concern from Mission Control that the LM was running low on fuel. Upon landing, Aldrin and Armstrong believed they had 40 seconds left on their fuel, including the 20 seconds' worth which had to be saved in the event of an abort. During training, Armstrong had landed the LLTV with less than 15 seconds left on several occasions, and he was also confident the LM could survive a vertical fall from if needed. Analysis after the mission showed that at touchdown there was 45 to 50 seconds of propellant burn time left.\n\nThe landing on the surface of the Moon occurred several seconds after 20:17:40 UTC on July 20, 1969, at which time one of three probes attached to three of the Lunar Module's four legs made contact with the surface, a panel light inside the LM lit up, and Aldrin called out, \"Contact light.\" Armstrong shut the engine off and said, \"Shutdown.\" As the LM settled onto the surface, Aldrin said, \"Okay. Engine stop\", then they both called out some post-landing checklist items. After a ten-second pause, Duke acknowledged the landing with, \"We copy you down, \"Eagle\".\" Armstrong announced the landing to Mission Control and the world with the words, \"Houston, Tranquility Base here. The \"Eagle\" has landed.\" Aldrin and Armstrong celebrated with a brisk handshake and pat on the back before returning to the checklist of tasks needed to ready the Lunar Module for liftoff from the Moon should an emergency unfold during the first moments on the lunar surface. After Armstrong had confirmed touch down, Duke re-acknowledged, and expressed the flight controllers' anxiety: \"Roger, Tranquility. We copy you on the ground. You got a bunch of guys about to turn blue. We're breathing again. Thanks a lot.\" During the landing, Armstrong's heart rate ranged from 100 to 150 beats per minute.\n\nThe official NASA flight plan called for a crew rest period before extravehicular activity, but Armstrong requested that the EVA be moved to earlier in the evening, Houston time. Once Armstrong and Aldrin were ready to go outside, \"Eagle\" was depressurized, the hatch was opened and Armstrong made his way down the ladder. At the bottom of the ladder Armstrong said, \"I'm going to step off the LM now\". He turned and set his left boot on the lunar surface at 02:56 UTC July 21, 1969, then spoke the now-famous words, \"That's one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind.\"\n\nArmstrong prepared his famous epigram on his own. In a post-flight press conference, he said that he chose the words \"just prior to leaving the LM.\" In a 1983 interview in \"Esquire Magazine\", Armstrong explained to George Plimpton: \"I always knew there was a good chance of being able to return to Earth, but I thought the chances of a successful touch down on the moon surface were about even money—fifty–fifty ... Most people don't realize how difficult the mission was. So it didn't seem to me there was much point in thinking of something to say if we'd have to abort landing.\" In 2012, his brother Dean Armstrong stated that Neil had shown him a note with a draft of the line months before the launch. Historian Andrew Chaikin, who had interviewed Armstrong in 1988 for his book \"A Man on the Moon\", disputed that Armstrong had ever claimed to have come up with the line spontaneously during the mission.\n\nRecordings of Armstrong's transmission do not provide evidence for the indefinite article \"a\" before \"man\", though NASA and Armstrong insisted for years that static had obscured it. Armstrong stated he would never make such a mistake, but after repeated listenings to recordings, he eventually conceded he must have dropped the \"a\". He later said he \"would hope that history would grant me leeway for dropping the syllable and understand that it was certainly intended, even if it was not said—although it might actually have been\". There have since been claims and counter-claims about whether acoustic analysis of the recording reveals the presence of the missing \"a\"; Peter Shann Ford, an Australian computer programmer, conducted a digital audio analysis and claims that Armstrong did say \"a man\", but the \"a\" was inaudible due to the limitations of communications technology of the time. Ford and James R. Hansen, Armstrong's authorized biographer, presented these findings to Armstrong and NASA representatives, who conducted their own analysis. Armstrong found Ford's analysis \"persuasive.\" Linguists David Beaver and Mark Liberman wrote of their skepticism of Ford's claims on the blog Language Log. A 2016 peer-reviewed study again concluded Armstrong had included the article. NASA's transcript continues to show the \"a\" in parentheses. When Armstrong made his proclamation, Voice of America was rebroadcast live via the BBC and many other stations worldwide. The estimated global audience at that moment was 530 million, out of an estimated world population of 3.6 billion.\nAbout 20 minutes after the first step, Aldrin joined Armstrong on the surface and became the second human to set foot on the Moon, and the duo began their tasks of investigating how easily a person could operate on the lunar surface. Early on, Armstrong unveiled a plaque commemorating their flight, and also with Aldrin, planted the flag of the United States. Although Armstrong had wanted the flag to be draped on the flagpole, it was decided to use a metal rod to hold it horizontal on the pole. Since the rod did not fully extend, the flag ended up with a slightly wavy appearance, as if there were a breeze. Shortly after their flag planting, President Richard Nixon spoke to them by a telephone call from his office. The President spoke for about a minute, after which Armstrong responded for about thirty seconds. In the Apollo 11 photographic record there are only five images of Armstrong partly shown or reflected. The mission was planned to the minute, with the majority of photographic tasks performed by Armstrong with the single Hasselblad camera.\n\nAfter helping to set up the Early Apollo Scientific Experiment Package, Armstrong went for a walk to what is now known as East Crater, east of the LM, the greatest distance traveled from the LM on the mission. Armstrong's final task was to remind Aldrin to leave a small package of memorial items to Soviet cosmonauts Yuri Gagarin and Vladimir Komarov, and Apollo 1 astronauts Grissom, White and Chaffee. The time spent on EVA during Apollo 11 was two and a half hours; each of the subsequent five landings was allotted a progressively longer period for EVA activities—the crew of Apollo 17 spent over 22 hours exploring the lunar surface. In a 2010 interview, Armstrong explained that NASA limited his Moon walk because they were unsure how the spacesuits would cope with the extremely high temperature on the Moon.\n\nAfter they re-entered the LM, the hatch was closed and sealed. While preparing for the liftoff from the lunar surface, Armstrong and Aldrin discovered that, in their bulky spacesuits, they had broken the ignition switch for the ascent engine; using part of a pen, they pushed the circuit breaker in to activate the launch sequence. The \"Eagle\" then continued to its rendezvous in lunar orbit, where it docked with \"Columbia\", the Command and Service Module. The three astronauts returned to Earth and splashed down in the Pacific Ocean, to be picked up by the .\n\nAfter being released from an 18-day quarantine to ensure that they had not picked up any infections or diseases from the Moon, the crew were feted across the United States and around the world as part of a 45-day \"Giant Leap\" tour. Armstrong then took part in Bob Hope's 1969 USO show, primarily to Vietnam. In May 1970, Armstrong traveled to the Soviet Union to present a talk at the 13th annual conference of the International Committee on Space Research; after arriving in Leningrad from Poland, he traveled to Moscow where he met Premier Alexei Kosygin. Armstrong was the first westerner to see the supersonic Tupolev Tu-144 and was given a tour of the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center, which he described as \"a bit Victorian in nature\". At the end of the day, he was surprised to view a delayed video of the launch of Soyuz 9 as it had not occurred to Armstrong that the mission was taking place, even though Valentina Tereshkova had been his host and her husband, Andriyan Nikolayev, was on board.\n\nArmstrong announced shortly after the Apollo 11 flight that he did not plan to fly in space again. He was appointed Deputy Associate Administrator for aeronautics for the Office of Advanced Research and Technology at ARPA; he served in this position for only a year, and resigned from it and NASA in 1971. He accepted a teaching position in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at the University of Cincinnati, having chosen Cincinnati over other universities, including his \"alma mater\", Purdue, because Cincinnati had a small aerospace department. He hoped that the faculty members would not be annoyed that he came straight into a professorship with only the USC master's degree. He began his master's degree while stationed at Edwards years before, and completed it after Apollo 11 by presenting a report on various aspects of Apollo, instead of a thesis on the simulation of hypersonic flight.\n\nAt Cincinnati he was University Professor of Aerospace Engineering. He took a heavy teaching load and taught core classes. Armstrong created two graduate-level classes while at the university: aircraft design and experimental flight mechanics. He was considered a good teacher, and was a tough grader. His research activities during this time did not involve him working for NASA. He did not want to give the appearance of favoritism, and he later regretted that decision. After teaching for eight years, he resigned in 1980. When the university changed from an independent municipal university to a state school, bureaucracy increased. He did not want to be a part of the faculty collective bargaining group, so he decided to teach half-time. According to Armstrong, he had the same amount of work but received half of his salary. In 1979, less than 10% of his income came from his university salary. Employees at the university did not know why he left.\n\nIn 1970, after the explosion and aborted lunar landing of Apollo 13, Armstrong was part of Edgar Cortright's accident investigation. He produced a detailed chronology of the flight. A 28-volt thermostat switch in an oxygen tank was supposed to be replaced with a 65-volt version, which led to the explosion. Cortright recommended a redesign of the entire tank, at a cost of $40 million. Many NASA managers, as well as Armstrong, opposed the report's recommendation to re-design the oxygen tanks, since the thermostat switch was the source of the explosion. They lost the argument, and the tanks were redesigned.\n\nIn 1986, President Ronald Reagan requested that Armstrong join the Rogers Commission, which investigated the \"Challenger\" disaster. Armstrong was appointed vice chairman of the commission. He was in charge of the operational side of the commission, and performed private interviews with contacts he developed over the years to help determine the cause of the accident. As vice chair, he helped keep the number of recommendations the committee gave to nine. He believed if there were too many recommendations, NASA would not act on them.\nArmstrong was appointed to a fourteen-member commission by President Reagan, to develop a plan for American civilian spaceflight in the 21st century. The commission was chaired by Dr. Thomas O. Paine, former NASA administrator, who Armstrong had worked with during the Apollo program. The group published a book titled \"Pioneering the Space Frontier: The Report on the National Commission on Space\". The commission recommended establishing a permanent lunar base by 2006 and sending humans to Mars by 2015. The recommendations were largely ignored, as the fallout from the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" disaster took priority.\n\nArmstrong and his wife attended the memorial service for the victims of the Space Shuttle \"Columbia\" disaster in 2003, at the invitation of President George W. Bush.\n\nAfter Armstrong retired from NASA in 1971, he acted as a spokesman for several businesses. The first company to successfully approach him was Chrysler, for whom he appeared in advertising starting in January 1979. Armstrong thought they had a strong engineering division, and they were in financial difficulty. He later acted as a spokesman for other American companies, including General Time Corporation and the Bankers Association of America. He only acted as a spokesman for American companies.\n\nAlong with spokesman duties, he also served on the board of directors of several companies. The first company which Armstrong joined the board was Gates Learjet, chairing their technical committee. He flew their new and experimental jets and even set a climb and altitude record for business jets. Armstrong became a member of Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company's board in 1973. They were interested in nuclear power and wanted to increase the company's technical competence. He served on the board of Taft Broadcasting, also based in Cincinnati. Armstrong joined Thiokol's board in 1989, after he was vice-chair of the Rogers Commission; the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" was destroyed due to a problem with the Thiokol-manufactured solid rocket boosters. When Armstrong left the University of Cincinnati, he became the chairman of Cardwell International Ltd., a company that manufactured drilling rigs. He served on additional aerospace boards, first United Airlines in 1978 and later Eaton Corporation in 1980. He was asked to chair the board of directors for a subsidiary of Eaton, AIL Systems. He chaired the board through the company's 2000 merger with EDO Corporation, until his retirement in 2002.\nIn 1985, professional expedition leader Mike Dunn organized a trip to take men he deemed the \"greatest explorers\" to the North Pole. The group included Armstrong, Edmund Hillary, Hillary's son Peter, Steve Fossett, and Patrick Morrow, and arrived on April 6, 1985. Armstrong said he was curious to see what the North Pole looked like from ground level, as he had only seen it from the Moon. Armstrong wanted to keep the expedition private, and kept the media in the dark about the trip.\n\nIn 2010, he voiced the character of Dr. Jack Morrow in \"\", an animated educational sci-fi adventure film initiated by JPL/NASA through a grant from Jet Propulsion Lab. Between 1991 and 1993, he hosted \"First Flights with Neil Armstrong\", an aviation history documentary series on A&E.\n\nArmstrong kept a low profile later in his life, which led to the belief that he was a recluse. He turned down most interviews and declined many public appearances. Michael Collins said in his book \"Carrying the Fire\" that when Armstrong moved to a dairy farm to become a college professor it was like he \"retreated to his castle and pulled up the drawbridge\". Armstrong found this amusing, and noted that, \"...those of us that live out in the hinterlands think that people that live inside the Beltway are the ones that have the problems.\" Andrew Chaikin says in \"A Man on the Moon\" that Armstrong kept a low profile, but was not a recluse, due to participation in interviews, advertisements for Chrysler, and hosting a cable television series.\n\nArmstrong used to autograph everything except for first day covers. Around 1993, he found out his signatures were being sold online, and most of them were forgeries, so he stopped autographing material. Armstrong also wrote letters congratulating Eagle Scouts on their accomplishment. He used to answer all requests for congratulations. In part of 2003, he had received 950 requests for letters to Eagle Scouts. He decided to quit the practice in the 1990s because he felt the letters should be written by people who knew the scout. These things combined contributed to the reclusiveness myth.\n\nArmstrong's family described him as a \"reluctant American hero\". John Glenn, the first American to orbit Earth, recalled Armstrong's humility. \"He didn't feel that he should be out huckstering himself,\" Glenn told CNN. \"He was a humble person, and that's the way he remained after his lunar flight, as well as before.\" Some former astronauts (such as Glenn and Harrison Schmitt) sought political careers after leaving NASA, but although Armstrong was approached by political groups from both parties, he declined all offers. He described his political leanings as favoring states' rights and opposing the United States acting as the \"world's policeman\".\n\nWhen Armstrong applied at a local Methodist church to lead a Boy Scout troop in the late 1950s he gave his religious affiliation as \"deist\". His mother later said that Armstrong's religious views caused her grief and distress in later life as she was more religious. In the early 1980s, Armstrong was the subject of a hoax saying that he converted to Islam after hearing the \"adhan\", the Muslim call to prayer, while walking on the Moon. The Indonesian singer Suhaemi wrote a song called \"Gema Suara Adzan di Bulan\" (\"The Resonant Sound of the Call to Prayer on the Moon\") which described Armstrong's conversion; the song was discussed widely in various Jakarta news outlets in 1983. Other similar hoax stories were seen in Egypt and Malaysia. In March 1983, the State Department responded by issuing a message to embassies and consulates in Muslim countries saying that Armstrong \"has not converted to Islam\". The hoax surfaced occasionally for the next three decades. Part of the confusion arose from the similarity between the names of Armstrong's American residence in Lebanon, Ohio, and the country of Lebanon, which has a majority Muslim population.\n\nIn 1972, Armstrong visited the town of Langholm, Scotland, the traditional seat of Clan Armstrong; he was made the first freeman of the burgh, and happily declared the town his home. The Justice of the Peace read from an unrepealed 400-year-old law that required him to hang any Armstrong found in the town.\n\nWhile working at his farm near Lebanon, Ohio, in November 1978, Armstrong jumped off the back of his grain truck and his wedding ring got caught in the wheel, tearing off the tip of his left hand's ring finger. He collected the severed digit and packed it in ice, and surgeons reattached it at the Jewish Hospital in Louisville, Kentucky. In February 1991, a year after his father had died, and nine months after the death of his mother, he suffered a mild heart attack while skiing with friends at Aspen, Colorado.\n\nArmstrong and his first wife, Janet, separated in 1990 and divorced in 1994, after 38 years of marriage. He met his second wife, Carol Held Knight, in 1992 at a golf tournament, where they were seated together at the breakfast table. She said little to Armstrong, but two weeks later she received a call from him asking what she was doing—she replied she was cutting down a cherry tree; 35 minutes later Armstrong was at her house to help out. They were married on June 12, 1994, in Ohio, and then had a second ceremony, at San Ysidro Ranch, in California. He lived in Indian Hill, Ohio.\n\nAfter 1993, Armstrong refused all requests for autographs because his signed items were selling for large amounts of money and many forgeries were in circulation; any requests that were sent to him received a form letter in reply, saying that he had stopped signing. Although his no-autograph policy was well known, author Andrew Smith observed people at the 2002 Reno Air Races trying to get signatures, with one person claiming, \"If you shove something close enough in front of his face, he'll sign.\" He also stopped sending out congratulatory letters to new Eagle Scouts, because he believed these letters should come from people who knew the Scouts personally.\n\nArmstrong guarded the use of his name, image, and famous quote. When it was launched in 1981, MTV wanted to use his quote in its station identification, with the American flag replaced with the MTV logo but he refused the use of his voice and likeness. He sued Hallmark Cards in 1994 after they used his name and a recording of the \"one small step\" quote in a Christmas ornament without permission. The lawsuit was settled out of court for an undisclosed amount of money which Armstrong donated to Purdue. In May 2005, Armstrong became involved in a legal dispute with his barber of 20 years, Mark Sizemore. After cutting Armstrong's hair, Sizemore sold some of it to a collector for $3,000 without Armstrong's knowledge. Armstrong threatened legal action against Sizemore unless he returned the hair or donated the proceeds to a charity of Armstrong's choosing. Sizemore, unable to retrieve the hair, donated the proceeds to charity.\n\nArmstrong underwent bypass surgery on August 7, 2012, to relieve blocked coronary arteries. Although he was reportedly recovering well, he developed complications in the hospital and died on August 25, in Cincinnati, Ohio, aged 82. After his death, Armstrong was described, in a statement released by the White House, as \"among the greatest of American heroes—not just of his time, but of all time\". The statement went on to say that Armstrong had carried the aspirations of the United States' citizens and that he had delivered \"a moment of human achievement that will never be forgotten.\"\n\nHis family released a statement describing Armstrong as a \"reluctant American hero [who had] served his nation proudly, as a navy fighter pilot, test pilot, and astronaut ... While we mourn the loss of a very good man, we also celebrate his remarkable life and hope that it serves as an example to young people around the world to work hard to make their dreams come true, to be willing to explore and push the limits, and to selflessly serve a cause greater than themselves. For those who may ask what they can do to honor Neil, we have a simple request. Honor his example of service, accomplishment and modesty, and the next time you walk outside on a clear night and see the moon smiling down at you, think of Neil Armstrong and give him a wink.\" This prompted many responses, including the Twitter hashtag \"#WinkAtTheMoon\".\n\nAldrin called him \"a true American hero and the best pilot I ever knew\", and said he was disappointed that they would not be able to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Moon landing together in 2019. Collins said: \"He was the best, and I will miss him terribly.\" NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said that: \"As long as there are history books, Neil Armstrong will be included in them, remembered for taking humankind's first small step on a world beyond our own\".\nA tribute was held for Armstrong on September 13 at Washington National Cathedral, whose Space Window depicts the Apollo 11 mission and holds a sliver of Moon rock amid its stained-glass panels. In attendance were Armstrong's Apollo 11 crewmates, Michael Collins and Buzz Aldrin; Gene Cernan, the Apollo 17 mission commander and last man to walk on the Moon; and former Senator and astronaut John Glenn, the first American to orbit the Earth. In a eulogy, Charles Bolden praised Armstrong's \"courage, grace, and humility\". Cernan recalled Armstrong's low-fuel approach to the Moon: \"When the gauge says empty we all know there's a gallon or two left in the tank!\" Diana Krall sang the song \"Fly Me to the Moon\". Collins led prayers. Scott recalled their Gemini 8 mission with Armstrong when he spoke, possibly for the first time, about an incident in which glue spilled on his harness and prevented it from locking correctly minutes before the hatch had to be sealed or the mission aborted. Armstrong then called on Conrad to solve the problem, which he did, to continue the mission without stopping the countdown clock. \"That happened because Neil Armstrong was a team player, he always worked on behalf of the team.\" On September 14, Armstrong's cremated remains were scattered in the Atlantic Ocean during a burial at sea ceremony aboard the . Flags were flown at half-staff on the day of Armstrong's funeral.\n\nArmstrong received many honors and awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Nixon, the Cullum Geographical Medal from the American Geographical Society, and the Collier Trophy from the National Aeronautic Association, all in 1969, the NASA Distinguished Service Medal in 1970, the Dr. Robert H. Goddard Memorial Trophy in 1970, the Sylvanus Thayer Award by the United States Military Academy in 1971, the Congressional Space Medal of Honor from President Jimmy Carter in 1978, the Wright Brothers Memorial Trophy from the National Aeronautic Association in 2001, and a Congressional Gold Medal in 2011. Armstrong and his Apollo 11 crewmates were the 1999 recipients of the Langley Gold Medal from the Smithsonian Institution. On April 18, 2006, he received NASA's Ambassador of Exploration Award. The Space Foundation named Armstrong as a recipient of its 2013 General James E. Hill Lifetime Space Achievement Award. Armstrong was also inducted into the Aerospace Walk of Honor, the National Aviation Hall of Fame, and the United States Astronaut Hall of Fame. He was awarded his Naval Astronaut badge in a ceremony on board the aircraft carrier on March 10, 2010, in a ceremony attended by Lovell and Cernan.\n\nThe lunar crater Armstrong, from the Apollo 11 landing site, and asteroid 6469 Armstrong are named in his honor. There are more than a dozen elementary, middle and high schools named in his honor in the United States, and many places around the world have streets, buildings, schools, and other places named for Armstrong and/or Apollo. The Armstrong Air and Space Museum, in Armstrong's hometown of Wapakoneta, and the airport in New Knoxville, Ohio, where he took his first flying lessons when he was fifteen, are named after him. Purdue University announced in October 2004 that its new engineering building would be named Neil Armstrong Hall of Engineering in his honor; the building was dedicated on October 27, 2007, during a ceremony at which Armstrong was joined by fourteen other Purdue Astronauts. The NASA Dryden Flight Research Center was renamed the NASA Neil A. Armstrong Flight Research Center in 2014.\nIn September 2012, the U.S. Navy announced that the first \"Armstrong\"-class vessel would be named . The ship was delivered to the Navy on September 23, 2015. It is a modern oceanographic research platform capable of supporting a wide range of oceanographic research activities conducted by academic groups.\n\nArmstrong's authorized biography, \"\", was published in 2005. For many years, Armstrong turned down biography offers from authors such as Stephen Ambrose and James A. Michener, but agreed to work with James R. Hansen after reading one of Hansen's other biographies. A film adaptation of the book starring Ryan Gosling and directed by Damien Chazelle was released in October 2018.\n\nIn a 2010 \"Space Foundation\" survey, Armstrong was ranked as the #1 most popular space hero, and in 2013, \"Flying\" magazine ranked him at #1 on its list of the \"51 Heroes of Aviation\". The press often asked Armstrong for his views on the future of spaceflight. In 2005, Armstrong said that a manned mission to Mars will be easier than the lunar challenge of the 1960s. In 2010, he made a rare public criticism of the decision to cancel the Ares I launch vehicle and the Constellation Moon landing program.\n\nIn an open letter also signed by fellow Apollo veterans Lovell and Cernan, he noted, \"For The United States, the leading space faring nation for nearly half a century, to be without carriage to low Earth orbit and with no human exploration capability to go beyond Earth orbit for an indeterminate time into the future, destines our nation to become one of second or even third rate stature\". Armstrong had also publicly recalled his initial concerns about the Apollo 11 mission, when he had believed there was only a 50 percent chance of landing on the Moon. \"I was elated, ecstatic and extremely surprised that we were successful\", he later said. On November 18, 2010, aged 80, Armstrong said in a speech during the \"Science & Technology Summit\" in The Hague, Netherlands, that he would offer his services as commander on a mission to Mars if he were asked.\n\n"}
{"id": "6755999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6755999", "title": "Normalnull", "text": "Normalnull\n\nNormalnull (\"standard zero\") or Normal-Null (short N. N. or NN ) is an outdated official vertical datum used in Germany. Elevations using this reference system were to be marked \"Meter über Normal-Null\" (“meters above standard zero”). Normalnull has been replaced by Normalhöhennull (short NHN).\n\nIn 1878 reference heights were taken from the Amsterdam Ordnance Datum and transferred to the New Berlin Observatory in order to define the Normalhöhenpunkt 1879. Normalnull has been defined as a level going through an imaginary point 37.000 m below \"Normalhöhenpunkt 1879\". When the New Berlin Observatory was demolished in 1912 the reference point was moved east to the village of Hoppegarten (now part of the town of Müncheberg, Brandenburg, Germany).\n"}
{"id": "56728567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56728567", "title": "Outline of Geneva", "text": "Outline of Geneva\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Geneva:\n\nGeneva – \n\n\nGeography of Geneva\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMuseums in Geneva\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDemographics of Geneva\n\nPolitics of Geneva\n\n\n\nHistory of Geneva\n\nTimeline of Geneva\n\nCulture of Geneva\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPublic art in Geneva\n\nEvents in Geneva\n\n\nLanguages of Geneva\n\nMedia in Geneva\n\nPeople from Geneva\n\nTraditions and customs in Geneva\n\nReligion in Geneva\n\nSports in Geneva\n\n\nEconomy of Geneva\n\nTransportation in Geneva\n\nRail transport in Geneva\n\n\nEducation in Geneva\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16285599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285599", "title": "Outline of Peru", "text": "Outline of Peru\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Peru:\n\nPeru – country located in western South America, on the Pacific Coast, north of Chile. Peruvian territory was home to ancient cultures spanning from the Norte Chico civilization, one of the oldest in the world, to the Inca Empire, the largest state in Pre-Columbian America. The Spanish Empire conquered the region in the 16th century and established a Viceroyalty, which included most of its South American colonies. After achieving independence in 1821, Peru has undergone periods of political unrest and fiscal crisis as well as periods of stability and economic upswing.\n\n\nGeography of Peru\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of Peru\n\nRegions of Peru\nPeru is divided into 25 regions and the province of Lima.\n\nProvinces of Peru\n\nDistricts of Peru\n\nMunicipalities of Peru\n\nDemographics of Peru\n\nPeru is bordered by:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Republic of Peru is a member of:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCulture of Peru\n\n\nReligion in Peru\n\nSports in Peru\n\nEconomy of Peru\n\nEducation in Peru\n\nPeru\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36184691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36184691", "title": "Pedometric mapping", "text": "Pedometric mapping\n\nPedometric mapping, or statistical soil mapping, is data-driven generation of soil property and class maps that is based on use of statistical methods. The main objective of pedometric mapping is to predict values of some soil variable at unobserved locations and access the uncertainty of that estimate using statistical inference i.e. statistically optimal approaches. From the application point of view, the main objective of soil mapping is to accurately predict response of a soil-plant ecosystem to various soil management strategies. In other words, the main objective of pedometric mapping is to generate maps of soil properties and soil classes that can be used to feed other environmental models or for decision making. Pedometric mapping is largely based on applying geostatistics in soil science and other statistical methods used in pedometrics.\n\nAlthough pedometric mapping is mainly data-driven, it can also largely be based on use of expert knowledge. The expert knowledge, however, needs to be \"plugged-in\" into a pedometric computational framework so that it can be used to produce more accurate prediction models. For example, data assimilation techniques, such as the space–time Kalman filter, can be used to integrate pedogenetic knowledge and field observations.\n\nIn the information theory context, the objective of pedometric mapping is to describe the spatial complexity of soils (information content of soil variables over a geographical area), then represent this complexity using maps, summary measures, mathematical models and simulations. Simulations are a preferred way of visualizing soil patterns as they represent both the deterministic pattern due to the landscape, geographic hot-spots and short range variability (see image below).\n\nIn traditional soil survey, spatial distribution of soil properties and soil bodies can be inferred using mental models which leads to manual delineations. Such methods can be considered to be subjective, and it is hence difficult or impossible to statistically assess the accuracy of such maps without additional field sampling. Traditional soil survey mapping has some limitations for use in a multithematic GIS related to the fact that is often not consistently applied by different mappers, it is largely manual and it is difficult to automate. Most of traditional soil maps in the world are based on manual delineations of assumed soil bodies, to which then soil attributes are attached. In the case of pedometric mapping, all outputs are based on using rigorous statistical computing and are hence reproducible.\n\nPedometric mapping is largely based on using extensive and detailed covariate layers such as Digital Elevation Model (DEM) derivatives, remote sensing imagery, climatic, land cover and geological GIS layers and imagery. Evolution of pedometric mapping can be closely connected with the emergence of new technologies and global, publicly available data sources such as the SRTM DEM, MODIS, ASTER and Landsat imagery, gamma radiometrics and LiDAR imagery, and new automated mapping methods.\n\nPedometric mapping methods differ based on the soil survey data processing steps:\n\nOne of the main theoretical basis for pedometric mapping is the universal model of soil variation:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the deterministic part of soil variation, formula_3 is the stochastic, spatially auto-correlated part of variation, and formula_4 is the remaining residual variation (measurement errors, short-range variability etc.) that is also possibly dependent on formula_5, but it is not modeled. This model has been first time introduced by French mathematician Georges Matheron, and has shown to be the Best Unbiased Linear Predictor for spatial data. One way of using this model to produce predictions or simulations is by means of regression-kriging (also known as universal kriging). In the case of soil data, the deterministic component of the model is often modeled using the soil forming factors: climate, organism, relief, parent material, or lithology, and time. This conceptual model is known as the CLORPT model, and has been the first time introduced to soil-landscape modelling by Hans Jenny.\n\nA special group of techniques of pedometric mapping focus on downscaling the spatial information that can be area-based or continuous. Prediction of soil classes is also another sub-field of pedometric mapping where specific geostatistical methods are used for the purpose of interpolation of factor-type of variables.\n\nPedometric mapping is also largely based on using novel technologies for measuring soil properties, also referred to as the digital soil mapping techniques. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "29615421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29615421", "title": "Pedra da Galinha Choca", "text": "Pedra da Galinha Choca\n\nPedra da Galinha Choca (Rock of the Brooding Hen) is a rock formation in the Brazilian city of Quixadá in Ceará, taking its name from its curious shape. It is located 5 km from the city center. \nThe formation is in the Quixadá Monoliths Natural Monument, a fully protected area.\n\nUntil the early twentieth century was called the \"Pedra da Arara\" (Arara's Stone).\nIt consists of inselberg diorites and granites, which are igneous rocks, i.e., formed from cooling magma. Like other monoliths of the region, the Pedra da Galinha Choca is on a crystalline ground, i.e., consists of ancient and tough rocks that were formed during the Precambrian, and which with erosion eventually stood above the surface.\n\nThe Barragem do Cedro (Cedar Dam) was built between 1890 and 1906 using stone masonry, cement and steel, at the foot of the Pedra da Galinha Choca. On 30 January 2015 the dam was placed on the tentative list as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n"}
{"id": "14500263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14500263", "title": "Physiographic regions of the world", "text": "Physiographic regions of the world\n\nThe physiographic regions of the world are a means of defining the Earth's landforms into distinct regions, based upon the classic three-tiered approach by Nevin Fenneman in 1916, that further defines landforms into: 1. physiographic divisions; 2. physiographic provinces; and 3. physiographic sections. This foundational model, which Fenneman used to classify the United States, was the basis for similar classifications of other continents later, and is still considered basically valid.\n\nDuring the early 1900s, the study of regional-scale geomorphology was termed \"physiography\". Unfortunately, physiography later was considered to be a contraction of \"physical\" and \"geography\", and therefore synonymous with physical geography, and the concept became embroiled in controversy surrounding the appropriate concerns of that discipline. Some geomorphologists held to a geological basis for physiography and emphasized a concept of physiographic regions while a conflicting trend among geographers was to equate physiography with \"pure morphology,\" separated from its geological heritage. In the period following World War II, the emergence of process, climatic, and quantitative studies led to a preference by many Earth scientists for the term \"geomorphology\" in order to suggest an analytical approach to landscapes rather than a descriptive one. In current usage, physiography still lends itself to confusion as to which meaning is meant, the more specialized \"geomorphological\" definition or the more encompassing \"physical geography\" definition. For the remainder of this article, emphasis will remain on the more \"geomorphological\" usage, which is based upon geological landforms, not on climate, vegetation, or other non-geological criteria.\n\nFor the purposes of physiographic mapping, landforms are classified according to both their geologic structures and histories. Distinctions based on geologic age also correspond to physiographic distinctions where the forms are so recent as to be in their first erosion cycle, as is generally the case with sheets of glacial drift. Generally, forms which result from similar histories are characterized by certain similar features, and differences in history result in corresponding differences of form, usually resulting in distinctive features which are obvious to the casual observer, but this is not always the case. A maturely dissected plateau may grade without a break from rugged mountains on the one hand to mildly rolling farm lands on the other. So also, forms which are not classified together may be superficially similar; for example, a young coastal plain and a peneplain. In a large number of cases, the boundary lines are also geologic lines, due to differences in the nature or structure of the underlying rocks.\n\nThe history of \"physiography\" itself is at best a complicated effort. Much of the complications arise from how the term has evolved over time, both as its own 'science' and as a synonym for other branches of science. In 1848, Mary Somerville published her book \"Physical Geography\" which gave detailed descriptions of the topography of each continent, along with the distribution of plant, animals and humans. This work gave impetus to further works along the field. In Germany, Oscar Peschel in 1870, proposed that geographers should study the morphology of the Earth's surface, having an interest in the study of landforms for the development of human beings. As the chair of geography (and a geologist by training) in Bonn, Germany, Ferdinand von Richthofen made the study of landforms the main research field for himself and his students. Elsewhere, Thomas Henry Huxley's \"Physiography\" was published in 1877 in Britain. Shortly after, the field of \"physical geography\" itself was renamed as \"physiography\". Afterwards, physiography became a very popular school subject in Britain, accounting for roughly 10% of all examination papers in both English and Welsh schools, and physiography was now regarded as an integral, if not the most important aspect of geography.\n\nIn conjunction with these 'advances' in physiography, physically and visually mapping these descriptive areas was underway as well. The early photographers and balloonists, Nadar and Triboulet, experimented with aerial photography and the view it provided of the landscape. In 1899, Albert Heim published his photographs and observations made during a balloon flight over the Alps; he is probably the first person to use aerial photography in geomorphological or physiographical research. The block diagrams of Fenneman, Raisz, Lobeck and many others were based in part upon both aerial photography and topographic maps, giving an oblique \"birds-eye\" view.\n\nBy 1901, there were clear differences in the definition of the term physiography. \"In England, physiography is regarded as the introduction to physical science in general. It is made to include the elements of physics, chemistry, astronomy, physical geography, and geology, and sometimes even certain phases of botany and zoology. In America, the term has a somewhat different meaning. It is sometimes used as a synonym for physical geography, and is sometimes defined as the science which describes and explains the physical features of the earth's surface\".\n\nBy 1911, the definition of physiography in \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" had evolved to be \"In popular usage the words 'physical geography' have come to mean geography viewed from a particular standpoint rather than any special department of the subject. The popular meaning is better conveyed by the word physiography, a term which appears to have been introduced by Linnaeus, and was reinvented as a substitute for the cosmography of the Middle Ages by Professor Huxley. Although the term has since been limited by some writers to one particular part of the subject, it seems best to maintain the original and literal meaning. In the stricter sense, physical geography is that part of geography which involves the processes of contemporary change in the crust and the circulation of the fluid envelopes. It thus draws upon physics for the explanation of the phenomena with the space-relations of which it is specially concerned. Physical geography naturally falls into three divisions, dealing respectively with the surface of the lithosphere – geomorphology; the hydrosphere – oceanography; and the atmosphere – climatology. All these rest upon the facts of mathematical geography, and the three are so closely inter-related that they cannot be rigidly separated in any discussion\".\n\nThe 1919 edition of \"The Encyclopedia Americana: A Library of Universal Knowledge\" further adjusted the definition to be \"Physiography (geomorphology), now generally recognized as a science distinct from geology, deals with the origins and development of land forms, traces out the topographic expression of structure, and embodies a logical history of oceanic basins, and continental elevations; of mountains, plateaus and plains; of hills and valleys. Physical geography is used loosely as a synonym, but the term is more properly applied to the borderland between geography and physiography; dealing, as it does, largely with the human element as influenced by its physiographic surroundings\".\n\nEven in the 21st century, some confusion remains as to exactly what \"physiography\" is. One source states \"Geomorphology includes quaternary geology, physiography and most of physical geography\", treating physiography as a separate field, but subservient to geomorphology. Another source states \"Geomorphology (or physiography) refers to the study of the surface features of the earth. It involves looking at the distribution of land, water, soil and rock material that forms the land surface. Land is closely linked to the geomorphology of a particular landscape\", regarding physiography as synonymous with geomorphology. Yet another source states \"Physiography may be viewed from two distinct angles, the one dynamic, the other passive\". The same source continues by stating \"In a large fashion geodynamics is intimately associated with certain branches of geology, as sedimentation, while geomorphology connects physiography with geography. The dynamic interlude representing the active phase of physiography weaves the basic threads of geologic history.\" The U.S. Geological Survey defines physiography as a study of \"Features and attributes of earth's land surface\", while geomorphology is defined separately as \"Branch of geology dealing with surface land features and the processes that create and change them\".\n\nPartly due to this confusion over what \"physiography\" actually means, some scientists have refrained from using the term physiography (and instead use the similar term geomorphology) because the definitions vary from the American Geological Institute's \"the study and classification of the surface features of Earth on the basis of similarities in geologic structure and the history of geologic changes\" to descriptions that also include vegetation and/or land use.\n\n"}
{"id": "1443347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1443347", "title": "Postcode lottery", "text": "Postcode lottery\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the term postcode lottery has two definitions:\n\nPostcodes were devised solely for the purposes of sorting and directing mail and rarely coincide with political boundaries. However, over time they have become a geographical reference in their own right with postcodes and postcode groups becoming synonymous with certain towns and districts. Further to this, the postcode has been used by organisations for other applications including government statistics, marketing, calculation of car and household insurance premiums and credit referencing.\n\nThere are several groups, mostly on the fringes of major population centres, who are affected in one way or another by the associations of their postcode. There is a movement in the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead to change the first two characters of their postcodes from to WM for vanity, so as not to be associated with Slough. A businessman in Ilford wishes to have the postcode district of changed to as he claims customers do not realise his business is based in London.\n\nResidents of West Heath in wish to have their postcodes changed to that of adjacent Bexleyheath, citing higher insurance premiums as reason to change. Some residents of Kingston Vale in wish to have their postcodes changed to adjacent Kingston upon Thames for the same reasons.\n\nIn all these cases Royal Mail has said that there is \"virtually no hope\" of changing the postcode, referring to their policy of changing postcodes only to match changes in their operations. Under this policy residents of the Wirral Peninsula had their postcodes changed from the (Liverpool) to (Chester) group when a new sorting office was opened.\n\nSome postcode areas straddle England's borders with Wales and Scotland. Examples of such postcodes include , , and . This has led to British Sky Broadcasting subscribers receiving the wrong BBC and ITV regions, and newly licensed radio amateurs being given incorrect call signs.\n\nPostcomm says the following regarding the extended use of postcodes and the Postcode Address File (PAF):\n\n"}
{"id": "49224863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49224863", "title": "Prizrenski Podgor", "text": "Prizrenski Podgor\n\nPrizrenski Podgor () is a geographical region in Kosovo, stretching from the branches of the Šar Mountains, from Prizren to the village of Dulje on the Crnoljeva mountain. It includes the eastern and northeastern part of the Prizren basin (\"Prizrenska kotlina\") and presents its border region towards the Šar \"župe\" of Sirinićka župa and Sredačka župa. It is a sub-region of Metohija. It includes the villages of Skorobišta, Dojnica, Grnčare, Novo Selo, Vrbičane, and the urban settlements of Kurilo and Baždarana, and suburb Ljubižda, of Prizren. It is inhabited by Albanians, Slavic Muslims, and Serbs.\n\nThe region is stretching from the branches of the Šar Mountains, from Prizren to the village of Dulje on the Crnoljeva mountain. It includes the eastern and northeastern part of the Prizren basin (\"Prizrenska kotlina\") and presents its border region towards the Šar \"župe\" of Sirinićka župa and Sredačka župa. It is a sub-region of Metohija.\n\nIt includes the villages of Skorobišta, Dojnica, Grnčare, Novo Selo, Vrbičane, and the urban settlements of Kurilo and Baždarana, and suburb Ljubižda, of Prizren.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, it was a \"župa\" (county) named Podgor. The Ottomans called the region \"Havazi\".\n\nIt is culturally connected to Serb-inhabited Sirinićka župa. The locals speak the Podgor speech (\"Podgorski govor\") of the Serbian language; the speech of Skorobište, Grnčare and Novo Selo show Serbian–Macedonian linguistical contact.\n\n"}
{"id": "55613887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55613887", "title": "Seascape ecology", "text": "Seascape ecology\n\nSeascape ecology is a scientific discipline that deals with the causes and ecological consequences of spatial pattern in the marine environment, drawing heavily on conceptual and analytical frameworks developed in terrestrial landscape ecology.. \n\nSeascape ecology, the application of landscape ecology concepts to the marine environment has been slowly emerging since the 1970s , yielding new ecological insights and showing growing potential to support the development of ecologically meaningful science-based management practices . For marine systems, the application of landscape ecology came about through a recognition that many of the concepts developed in the theory of island biogeography and the study of patch dynamics (precursors to modern landscape ecology) could be applicable to a range of marine environments from plankton patches to patch reefs , intertidal mussel beds and seagrasses meadows . \n\nProgress in the ecological understanding of spatial patterning was not confined to shallow seafloor environments. For the open ocean, advances in ocean observing systems since the 1970s have allowed scientists to map, classify, quantify and track dynamic spatial structure in the form of eddies, surface roughness, currents, runoff plumes, ice, temperature fronts and plankton patches using oceanographic technologies – a theme increasingly referred to as pelagic seascape ecology .Subsurface structures too, such as internal waves, thermoclines, haloclines, boundary layers and stratification resulting in distinct layering of organisms, is increasingly being mapped and modelled in multiple dimensions.\n\nLike landscape ecologists, seascape ecologists are interested in the spatially explicit geometry of patterns and the relationships between pattern, ecological processes and environmental change. A central tenet in landscape ecology is that patch context matters, where local conditions are influenced by attributes of the surroundings. For instance, the physical arrangement of objects in space, and their location relative to other things, influences how they function. \n\nA landscape ecologist will ask different questions focused at different scales than other scientists, such as: What are the ecological consequences of different shaped patches, patch size, quality, edge geometry, spatial arrangement and diversity of patches across the landscape? At what scale(s) is structure most influential? How do landscape patterns influence the way that animals find food, evade predators and interact with competitors? How does human activity alter the structure and function of landscapes?\n\nSeveral guiding principles that exist at the core of landscape ecology have made major contributions to terrestrial landscape planning and conservation, but in marine systems our understanding is still in its infancy. The first book on seascape ecology was published in December 2017\n\nSeascapes are defined broadly as spatially heterogeneous and dynamic spaces that can be delineated at a wide range of scales in time and space. With regard to seascapes defined by sampling units, a 1 m quadrat can be a valid seascape sample unit (SSU), just as can a 1 km analytical window in a geographical information system. The wide diversity of possible focal scales in marine ecology means that the term seascape cannot be used as an indication of scale, or a level of organisation.\nThe sea exhibits complex spatial patterning that can be mapped and quantified, such as gradients in plant communities across tidal saltmarshes or the intricate mosaics of patches typical of coral reefs. In the open ocean too, dynamic spatial structure in the form of water currents, eddies, temperature fronts and plankton patches can be measured readily. Physical processes such as storms dramatically influence spatial patterning in the environment and human activity can also directly create patch structure, modify mosaic composition and even completely remove elements of the seascape. Furthermore, climate-change induced shifts in species related to water temperature change and sea level rise are driving a gradual reconfiguration of the geography of species and habitats.\n\nThe patterns revealed by remote sensing devices are most often mapped and represented using two types of model: (1) collections of discrete patches forming mosaics e.g. as represented in two-dimensional benthic habitat map, or (2) continuously varying gradients in three-dimensional terrain models e.g. in remotely sensed bathymetric data. In landscape ecology, patches can be classified into a binary patch-matrix model based on island biogeography theory where a focal habitat patch type (e.g. seagrasses) is surrounded by an inhospitable matrix (e.g. sand), or a patch-mosaic of interconnected patches, where the interactions of the parts influence the ecological function of the whole mosaic. Both patch and gradient models have provided important insights into the spatial ecology of marine species and biodiversity.\n\nScale, the spatial or temporal dimensions of a phenomenon, is central to seascape ecology and the topic permeates all applications of a seascape ecology approach from conceptual models through to design of sampling, analyses and interpretation of results. Species and life-stage responses to patchiness and gradients in environmental structure are likely to be scale dependent, therefore, scale selection is an important task in any ecological study. Seascape ecology acknowledges that decisions made for scaling ecological studies influence our perspective and ultimately our understanding of ecological patterns and processes. Historically, marine scientists have played a significant role in communicating the importance of scale in ecology\n\nIn 1963, a physical oceanographer, Henry Stommel, published a conceptual diagram that was to have a profound effect on all of the environmental sciences . The diagram depicted variation in sea level height at spatial scales from centimetres to that of the planet and at time scales from seconds to tens of millennia. The oceanographer John Steele (1978) adapted the Stommel diagram to depict the spatial and temporal scales of patchiness in phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish.\n\nMeasuring habitat structure at multiple scales is typical in seascape ecology, particularly where a single meaningful scale is not known or not meaningful to the ecological process of interest. Multi-scale measurements have been used to discover the scale at which populations are associated with key habitat features. With regard to scaling seascapes, one approach is to select spatial and temporal scales to be ecologically meaningful to the organism’s movements or other processes of interest.\n\nThe absence of information, or the lack of continuous observation on the way animals use space through time, can all too often result in insufficient consideration of seascape context potentially resulting in misleading conclusions on the primary drivers of ecological patterns and processes. Pittman and McAlpine (2003) offer a multi-scale framework for scaling ecological studies that integrates hierarchy theory with movement ecology and the concept of ecological neighborhoods. Here the focal scale is guided by the spatial and temporal scales relevant to an ecological process of interest. The focal scale is nested within a spatial hierarchy that incorporates patterns and processes at both finer and broader scales\n"}
{"id": "29232560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29232560", "title": "State flags of Mexico", "text": "State flags of Mexico\n\nMost Mexican states do not have an official flag. For these states, a \"de facto\" flag is used for civil and state purposes, typically consisting of a white background charged with the state's coat of arms.\n\nAt least five states have official flags: Durango, Jalisco, Querétaro, Quintana Roo and Tlaxcala. Except for Jalisco and Tlaxcala, each official flag is simply a white background charged with the state's coat of arms. Tlaxcala's flag was designed by Desiderio Hernández Xochitiotzin in 1981 and was painted in his mural \"El siglo de oro tlaxcalteca\" in the Tlaxcala Municipality \"cabildo\" before being made the official flag in 2011.\n\nTwo states have provisions in their constitutions explicitly declaring that there shall be no official state flag. These states are Baja California and Campeche.\n\n"}
{"id": "21242847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21242847", "title": "Sub-prefectures of Guinea", "text": "Sub-prefectures of Guinea\n\nThe sub-prefectures (known in French as \"sous-prefectures\") are the third-level administrative divisions in Guinea. As of 2009 there were 303 rural communes of Guinea and 38 urban communes, 5 of which compose the Conakry greater urban area; Kaloum, Dixinn, Matam, Ratoma and Matoto.\n\nDabola Prefecture\n\nDinguiraye Prefecture\n\nFaranah Prefecture\n\nKissidougou Prefecture\n\nKankan Prefecture\n\nKérouané Prefecture\n\nKouroussa Prefecture\n\nMandiana Prefecture\n\nSiguiri Prefecture\n\nBeyla Prefecture\n\nGuéckédou Prefecture\n\nLola Prefecture\n\nMacenta Prefecture\n\nNzérékoré Prefecture\n\nYomou Prefecture\n\nBoffa Prefecture\n\nBoké Prefecture\n\nFria Prefecture\n\nGaoual Prefecture\n\nKoundara Prefecture\n\nCoyah Prefecture\n\nDubréka Prefecture\n\nForécariah Prefecture\n\nKindia Prefecture\n\nTélimélé Prefecture\n\nKoubia Prefecture\n\nLabé Prefecture\n\nLélouma Prefecture\n\nMali Prefecture\n\nTougué Prefecture\n\nDalaba Prefecture\n\nMamou Prefecture\n\nPita Prefecture\n\nConakry\n\n"}
{"id": "690403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690403", "title": "Subdivisions of Kiribati", "text": "Subdivisions of Kiribati\n\nIn Kiribati, there are no more official subdivisions but it is possible to divide Kiribati geographically into three groups of islands:\n\nKiribati was divided into 6 districts until independence:\n\nFour of the former districts (including Tarawa) lie in the Gilbert Islands, where most of the islands' population lives. Only three of the Line Islands are inhabited, while the Phoenix Islands are uninhabited apart from Kanton (31 people) and have no representation. Banaba itself is sparsely inhabited now (295 people in 2010). There is also a representative non-elected of the Banabans relocated to Rabi Island in the nation of Fiji.\n\nThere are a total of 21 inhabited islands in Kiribati. Each inhabited island has its own council. Two atolls have\nmore than one island councils: Tarawa has three and Tabiteuea has 2, for a total of 24 local councils.\n\nBanaba Island\n\nTarawa Island\n\nNorth Gilbert Islands\n\nCentral Gilbert Islands\n\nSouth Gilbert Islands\n\nPhoenix Islands \n\nLine Islands\n"}
{"id": "23440598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23440598", "title": "Urban refugee", "text": "Urban refugee\n\nAn urban refugee is a refugee who decided or was obliged to settle in an urban area rather than in a refugee camp in the country or territory where the person fled to. More than 60% of the world's refugee population and 80% of internally displaced persons (IDP) under UNHCR mandate live in urban environments. In 2009, their number was around 5.5 million people. \"Urban refugee\" is not a recognized legal term in the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. However, the UNHCR has adopted a 'Policy on Refugee Protection and Solutions in Urban Areas' in 2009.\n\nUrban refugees are among the most vulnerable groups in low income countries. According to UNHCR, the urban refugee population worldwide is very diverse, comprising a large number of women, children, and older people who have particular protection challenges. The urban refugee population face specific protecting needs attendant to urban environments: they may lack access to services, health, education and are often confronted to xenophobic attitudes in their country of asylum.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of refugees living in urban areas are to be found in the poorest and more conflict-affected regions of the world. Africa and Asia concentrate the highest number of urban refugee populations. Some war-affected countries host a huge number of both urban internally displaced people and refugees in capital cities (such as Kampala or Khartoum). Urban refugees also live in the main cities of their country of origin: after protracted exile, many returnees prefer settling back as IDPs in cities and towns of their own country upon return.\n\nSince around 2017, the UNHCR prioritizes urban refugees for resettlement over those refugees living in refugee camps. In Kenya, for example, only refugees living in Nairobi are submitted for resettlement places, and not those refugees living in Kakuma or Dadaab.\n\nReasons for living in urban settings rather than in refugee camps could be specific medical care needs that can't be provided for in camps, or higher than average educational achievements and aspirations, as camps don't provide much higher education opportunities. There is insufficient physical and material security in some camps. Especially certain groups of refugees, such as LGBTI refugees and women at high risk of gender-based violence, cannot be sufficienty protected from other refugees in the camps. Or it could simply the fact that the state or territory where refugees fled to does not run refugee camps (e.g. Syria or Egypt). Some refugees leave camps in search of better economic opportunities in urban centres and to avoid being dependent on aid rations. Some even move back and forth between urban centres and refugee camps to get the best of both.\n\nA disadvantage is that the UNHCR and other aid agencies cannot legally protect and support refugees dispersed in urban settings as much as in camps.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1802050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1802050", "title": "Variogram", "text": "Variogram\n\nIn spatial statistics the theoretical variogram formula_1 is a function describing the degree of spatial dependence of a spatial random field or stochastic process formula_2. \n\nIn the case of a concrete example from the field of gold mining, a variogram will give a measure of how much two samples taken from the mining area will vary in gold percentage depending on the distance between those samples. Samples taken far apart will vary more than samples taken close to each other.\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\nThe semivariogram formula_3 was first defined by Matheron (1963) as half the average squared difference between points (formula_4 and formula_5) separated at distance formula_6. Formally\n\nwhere formula_8 is a point in the geometric field formula_9, and formula_10 is the value at that point. For example, suppose we are interested in iron content in soil samples in some region or field formula_9. formula_10 would be the content (e.g., in mg iron per kg soil) of iron at some location formula_8, where formula_8 has coordinates of latitude, longitude, and depth. The triple integral is over 3 dimensions. formula_6 is the separation distance (e.g., in m or km) of interest. To obtain the semivariogram for a given formula_3, all pairs of points at that exact distance would be sampled. In practice it is impossible to sample everywhere, so the empirical variogram is used instead.\n\nThe variogram is defined as the variance of the difference between field values at two locations (formula_4 and formula_5, note change of notation from formula_8 to formula_20 and formula_21 to formula_22) across realizations of the field (Cressie 1993):\n\nor in other words is twice the semivariogram. If the spatial random field has constant mean formula_24, this is equivalent to the expectation for the squared increment of the values between locations formula_4 and formula_26 (Wackernagel 2003) (where formula_4 and formula_5 are points in space and possibly time):\n\nIn the case of a stationary process, the variogram and semivariogram can be represented as a function formula_30 of the difference formula_31 between locations only, by the following relation (Cressie 1993):\n\nIf the process is furthermore isotropic, then the variogram and semivariogram can be represented by a function formula_33 of the distance formula_34 only (Cressie 1993):\n\nThe indexes formula_36 or formula_37 are typically not written. The terms are used for all three forms of the function. Moreover, the term \"variogram\" is sometimes used to denote the semivariogram, and the symbol formula_38 is sometimes used for the variogram, which brings some confusion.\n\nAccording to (Cressie 1993, Chiles and Delfiner 1999, Wackernagel 2003) the theoretical variogram has the following properties:\n\nGenerally an empirical variogram is needed, because sample information formula_22 is not available for every location. The sample information could be concentration of iron in soil samples, pixel intensity on a camera or the property of a material. Each piece of sample information has coordinates formula_57 for a 2D sample space where formula_58 and formula_59 are geographical coordinates. In the case of the iron in soil, the sample space could be 3 dimensional. If there is temporal variability as well (e.g., phosphorus content in a lake) then formula_20 could be a 4 dimensional vector formula_61. For the case where dimensions have different units (e.g., distance and time) then a scaling factor formula_62 can be applied to each to obtain a modified Euclidean distance.\n\nSample observations are denoted formula_63. Samples may be taken at formula_64 total different locations. This would provide as set of samples formula_65 at locations formula_66. Generally plots show the semivariogram values as a function of sample point separation formula_6. In the case of empirical semivariogram, separation distance bins formula_68 are used rather than exact distances, and usually isotropic conditions are assumed (i.e., that formula_38 is only a function of formula_6 and does not depend on other variables such as center position). Then, the empirical semivariogram formula_71 can be calculated for each bin:\n\nformula_72\n\nOr in other words, each pair of points separated by formula_6 (plus or minus some bin width tolerance range formula_74) are found. These form the set of points formula_75. The number of these points in this bin is formula_76. Then for each pair of points formula_77, the square of the difference in the observation (e.g., soil sample content or pixel intensity) is found (formula_78). These squared differences are added together and normalized by the natural number formula_76. By definition the result is divided by 2 for the semivariogram at this separation.\n\nFor computational speed, only the unique pairs of points are needed. For example, for 2 observations pairs [formula_80] taken from locations with separation formula_68 only [formula_80] need to be considered, as the pairs [formula_83] do not provide any additional information. \n\nThe \"empirical variogram\" is used in geostatistics as a first estimate of the (theoretical) variogram needed for spatial interpolation by kriging. \nAccording to (Cressie 1993), for observations formula_84 from a stationary random field formula_2, the empirical variogram with lag tolerance 0 is an unbiased estimator of the theoretical semivariogram, due to:\n\nformula_86\n\nThe following parameters are often used to describe variograms:\n\n\nThe empirical variogram cannot be computed at every lag distance formula_6 and due to variation in the estimation it is not ensured that it is a valid variogram, as defined above. However some Geostatistical methods such as kriging need valid semivariograms. In applied geostatistics the empirical variograms are thus often approximated by model function ensuring validity (Chiles&Delfiner 1999). Some important models are (Chiles&Delfiner 1999, Cressie 1993): \n\n\n\n\nThe parameter formula_94 has different values in different references, due to the ambiguity in the definition of the range. E.g. formula_95 is the value used in (Chiles&Delfiner 1999). The formula_96 function is 1 if formula_97 and 0 otherwise.\n\nThree functions are used in geostatistics for describing the spatial or the temporal correlation of observations: these are the correlogram, the covariance and the semivariogram. The last is also more simply called variogram. The sampling variogram, unlike the semivariogram and the variogram, shows where a significant degree of spatial dependence in the sample space or sampling unit dissipates into randomness when the variance terms of a temporally or \"in-situ\" ordered set are plotted against the variance of the set and the lower limits of its 99% and 95% confidence ranges.\n\nThe variogram is the key function in geostatistics as it will be used to fit a model of the temporal/spatial correlation of the observed phenomenon. One is thus making a distinction between the \"experimental variogram\" that is a visualisation of a possible spatial/temporal correlation and the \"variogram model\" that is further used to define the weights of the kriging function. Note that the experimental variogram is an empirical estimate of the covariance of a Gaussian process. As such, it may not be positive definite and hence not directly usable in kriging, without constraints or further processing. This explains why only a limited number of variogram models are used: most commonly, the linear, the spherical, the Gaussian and the exponential models. \n\nThe squared term in the variogram, for instance formula_98, can be replaced with different powers: A \"madogram\" is defined with the absolute difference, formula_99, and a \"rodogram\" is defined with the square root of the absolute difference, formula_100. Estimators based on these lower powers are said to be more resistant to outliers. They can be generalized as a \"variogram of order \"α\"\",\n\nin which a variogram is of order 2, a madogram is a variogram of order 1, and a rodogram is a variogram of order 0.5.\n\nWhen a variogram is used to describe the correlation of different variables it is called \"cross-variogram\". Cross-variograms are used in co-kriging.\nShould the variable be binary or represent classes of values, one is then talking about \"indicator variograms\". Indicator variogram is used in indicator kriging.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47890158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47890158", "title": "Vienna Institute of Demography", "text": "Vienna Institute of Demography\n\nThe Vienna Institute of Demography (VID) (until 2002: Institut für Demographie/IfD) is a research institute of the division for humanities and social sciences within the Austrian Academy of Sciences (ÖAW) and part of the three \"pillar institutions\" of the Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital.\n\nAfter some groundwork by researchers interested in having a population studies institute in Austria, among them Wilhelm Winkler and Gustav Feichtinger, the \"Institut für Demographie\" was established in November 1975 as a non-university research institute of the Austrian Academy of Sciences in close cooperation with the Austrian Statistical Central Office (now Statistik Austria). Founding director was Lothar Bosse (1914–1996), a German-born philosopher, mathematician and economist who remained at the head of IfD for twelve years. In the first few years, research activities were limited by budget restrictions and focussed on \"theory and basic research\" as well as \"applied demography\". From the beginning, there was an emphasis on informing the public about population issues and research results, by publications such as \"Demographische Informationen\" (since 1981, in German with English abstracts).\n\nBosse was succeeded by Richard Gisser who headed the institute 1987–1989 and again 1993–2001 (interim directorship was taken by social scientist Rainer Münz) and continues to be the institute’s deputy director and a leader of the research group on \"Demography of Austria\".\n\nIn the period of 1985 to 2000, the institute and the research topic of demography received increasing attention, though there was some competition for scientific staff with the newly founded Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research in Rostock, Germany.\n\nAfter positive independent evaluations and the commitment of special funds, the ÖAW decided to substantially expand and internationalise the institute in 2001. Under the designated new director Wolfgang Lutz, the IfD changed its name and working language, employed more scientific and administrative staff, expanded its research agenda as well as its publication efforts and moved to new and successively larger premises in the 4th district (2002–2007 at Prinz-Eugen-Strasse 8-10, then 2007–2015 at Wohllebengasse 12-14).\n\nResearch activity at VID continued to expand and received favourable attention by policy-makers and scientific peers, which showed in VID members participating in or coordinating major research projects, for instance within the European Union’s Framework Programmes, and obtaining recognition by being awarded sizeable grants from the European Research Council (ERC). Director Wolfgang Lutz received the Wittgenstein Award in 2010 and, with the 1.5 million euro prize money, established the \"Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital\".\n\nAt its 40th anniversary in 2015, VID moved to the WU campus in Vienna’s 2nd district, celebrating this and other occasions with a symposium on \"Demography that Matters\".\n\nIn 2016 Alexia Fürnkranz-Prskawetz, head of the Institute of Mathematical Methods in Economics at the Vienna University of Technology and long-time leader of the VID research group on \"Population Economics\" became executive director.\n\nVID employs about 40 researchers, most of them from the fields of economics, mathematics/statistics, geography, health studies and sociology, to cover the major research topics of demography or population science: fertility, mortality and migration as well as a number of other fields of interest. Over time, the institute’s research focus has expanded from its core competences in Austrian and later European demography to a global perspective on the relevant issues of population and human capital development.\n\nThere are seven main areas of research, assigned to different research groups though there is considerable permeability and cooperation:\n\n\nIn addition to the individual contributions of VID researchers to a number of scientific journals, the institute issues the following regular publications:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "872601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=872601", "title": "Élisée Reclus", "text": "Élisée Reclus\n\nJacques Élisée Reclus (; 15 March 1830 – 4 July 1905) was a renowned French geographer, writer and anarchist. He produced his 19-volume masterwork, \"La Nouvelle Géographie universelle, la terre et les hommes\" (\"Universal Geography\"), over a period of nearly 20 years (1875–1894). In 1892 he was awarded the Gold Medal of the Paris Geographical Society for this work, despite having been banished from France because of his political activism.\n\nReclus was born at Sainte-Foy-la-Grande (Gironde). He was the second son of a Protestant pastor and his wife. From the family of fourteen children, several brothers, including fellow geographers Onésime and Élie Reclus, went on to achieve renown either as men of letters, politicians or members of the learned professions.\n\nReclus began his education in Rhenish Prussia, and continued higher studies at the Protestant college of Montauban. He completed his studies at University of Berlin, where he followed a long course of geography under Carl Ritter.\n\nWithdrawing from France due to the political events of December 1851, as a young man he spent the next six years (1852–1857) traveling and working in Great Britain, the United States, Central America, and Colombia. Arriving in Louisiana in 1853, Reclus worked for about two and a half years as a tutor to the children of cousin Septime and Félicité Fortier at their plantation Félicité, located about upriver from New Orleans. He recounted his passage through the Mississippi River Delta and impressions of antebellum New Orleans and the state in \"Fragment d'un voyage á Louisiane\", published in 1855.\n\nOn his return to Paris, Reclus contributed to the \"Revue des deux mondes\", the \"Tour du monde\" and other periodicals, a large number of articles embodying the results of his geographical work. Among other works of this period was the short book \"Histoire d'un ruisseau\", in which he traced the development of a great river from source to mouth. During 1867 and 1868, he published \"La Terre; description des phénomènes de la vie du globe\" in two volumes.\n\nDuring the Siege of Paris (1870–1871), Reclus shared in the aerostatic operations conducted by Félix Nadar, and also served in the National Guard. As a member of the Association Nationale des Travailleurs, he published a hostile manifesto against the government of Versailles in support of the Paris Commune of 1871 in the \"Cri du Peuple\".\n\nContinuing to serve in the National Guard, which was then in open revolt, Reclus was taken prisoner on 5 April. On 16 November he was sentenced to deportation for life. Because of intervention by supporters from England, the sentence was commuted in January 1872 to perpetual banishment from France.\n\nAfter a short visit to Italy, Reclus settled at Clarens, Switzerland, where he resumed his literary labours and produced \"Histoire d'une montagne\", a companion to \"Histoire d'un ruisseau\". There he wrote nearly the whole of his work, \"La Nouvelle Géographie universelle, la terre et les hommes\", \"an examination of every continent and country in terms of the effects that geographic features like rivers and mountains had on human populations—and vice versa,\" This compilation was profusely illustrated with maps, plans, and engravings. It was awarded the gold medal of the Paris Geographical Society in 1892. An English edition was published simultaneously, also in 19 volumes, the first four by translated E. G. Ravenstein, the rest by A. H. Keane. Reclus's writings were characterized by extreme accuracy and brilliant exposition, which gave them permanent literary and scientific value.\n\nAccording to Kirkpatrick Sale:\nIn 1882, Reclus initiated the Anti-Marriage Movement. In accordance with these beliefs and the practice of \"union libre\" (\"free unions\"), which was common among working-class French in the mid-to-late 1800s, Reclus allowed his two daughters to \"marry\" their male partners without any civil or religious ceremonies, an action causing embarrassment to many of his well-wishers. Reclus had himself entered a free union in 1872, after the death of his first wife. In 1882 he also wrote \"Unions Libres,\" a pamphlet which detailed his anarchist and feminist objections to marriage. The French government initiated prosecution from the High Court of Lyon, arrested him and Peter Kropotkin as the International Association's organizers, and sentenced the latter to five years' imprisonment. Reclus escaped punishment as he remained in Switzerland.\n\nReclus had strong views on naturism and the benefits of nudity. He argued that living naked was more hygienic than wearing clothes; he believed that it was healthier for skin to be fully exposed to light and air so that it could resume its \"natural vitality and activity\" and become more flexible and firm at the same time. He also argued that from an aesthetic point of view, nudity was better: naked people were more beautiful. His principal objection to clothing was, however, a moral one; he felt that a fixation with clothing caused excessive focus on what was covered.\nIn 1894, Reclus was appointed chair of comparative geography at the University of Brussels, and moved with his family to Belgium. His brother Élie Reclus was at the university already, teaching religion. Élisée Reclus continued to write, contributing several important articles and essays to French, German and English scientific journals. He was awarded the 1894 Patron's Gold Medal of the Royal Geographical Society.\n\nIn 1905, shortly before his death, Reclus completed \"L'Homme et la terre\", in which he rounded out his previous works by considering humanity's development relative to its geographical environment.\n\nReclus married and had a family, including two daughters.\n\nHe died at Torhout, near Bruges, Belgium.\n\nReclus was admired by many prominent 19th century thinkers, including Alfred Russel Wallace, George Perkins Marsh and Patrick Geddes, Henry Stephens Salt, and Octave Mirbeau. James Joyce was influenced by Reclus' book \"La civilisation et les grands fleuves historiques\".\n\nReclus advocated nature conservation and opposed meat-eating and cruelty to animals. He was a vegetarian. As a result, his ideas are seen by some historians and writers as anticipating the modern social ecology and animal rights movements.\n\nL'Homme et la terre (\"The Earth and its Inhabitants\"), 6 volumes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
