{"id": "21160798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21160798", "title": "1.8.7", "text": "1.8.7\n\n1.8.7 is a pseudonym for Jordana LeSesne, a musician and producer from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She became widely known in the mid-1990s as an American Drum and Bass producer. The Village Voice described her as being \"[w]idely regarded as the top U.S. drum'n'bass producer.\" Vibe magazine called her \"one of the most respected Drum ‘n' Bass producers in the US.\" In 2015 Jordana was named as one of \"20 Women Who Shaped the History of Dance Music\" by the authoritative dance music magazine Mixmag. Previously, in 2014, For Harriet Magazine named Jordana as one of \"12 Women in Black Music History You Should Know\". In 2014, Complex Magazine UK named one of her songs to a list of \"36 Great American Drum & Bass Tracks\". She is transgender and has been living as a woman since 1998.\n\nShe has released of over 50 tracks which includes four full-length albums, several EPs, and many remixes under the alias \"1.8.7\". The album \"When Worlds Collide\", released in 1997, became known for its \"dark pummeling assaults\". She has also licensed tracks for numerous compilations as well as the Sci Fi Channel. Three of her albums charted in the Top 25 of both the CMJ (College Music Journal) and Mixmag U.S. (later Mixer Magazine, now defunct) for 1997 as well as 1998 and 1999. Her third album \"The Cities Collection\" debuted in the CMJ Top 5 climbed to the #2 position on CMJ Music Monthly's dance chart for June 2000.\n\nHer works have been reviewed by the likes of \"Billboard\", \"Spin\", \"Rolling Stone\", \"Urb\", \"Mixer\", \"Mixmag\", \"Raygun\", \"Vibe\", and Trip (Español), as well as \"Knowledge\" – the U.K. Drum and Bass magazine. In 1999 she was listed in Raygun's \"Who's Who of International DJs\". She was one of the headlining DJs on Knowledge Magazine's 28 city \"Kung Fu Knowledge\" tour in 1999. She also made \"Out Magazine's\" OUT100 for the year 2000.\n\nJordana's work has influenced other artists such as well known dubstep producer Bassnectar who heavily sampled \"5 A.M. Rinse (feat. MC Sphinx)\", the last song on her first album \"When Worlds Collide\" for his song \"Here We Go\" off of his 2010 EP and single \"Timestretch\". Additionally, electronic rock act Celldweller sampled \"Wake Up\" off of her first album as well as \"San Francisco\" off of her third album \"The Cities Collection\" in their 2013 song \"Uncrowned\".\n\nIn 1999 Drum & Bass/Hip Hop producer and label owner Hive approached Jordana to remix her song \"Defcon-1\" also off of \"When Worlds Collide\". Hive's remix appears on his 2001 album \"The Raw Uncut\". Jordana collaborated with Lady Sovereign on a song early in Sov's career after the two met through an internet chat room for StrikeFM.co.uk, an online radio station which Jordana had a show, and the now defunct UKGargageWorldwide.com forums. The two would later team up when Jordana under her Lady J alias, had Lady Sovereign MC for her radio show on Flex 103.6FM London.\n\nNew Zealand based Dubstep and Drum & Bass producer Alexis K/Unsub has also cited Jordana as an influence and the two are collaborating on music and a possible tour.\n\nJordana first came to the attention of the music industry when she was asked to remix Blondie's \"Atomic.\" Her \"Beautiful Drum & Bass Remix\" appeared along with Armand Van Helden and Diddy's remixes on the single. A little over a year following that release Mac McFarlane, the promoter of the well established and legendary New York City Drum'n'Bass club night, Konkrete Jungle, contacted Jordana to create a Konkrete Jungle themed song for a CD compilation/mix-CD. Jordana created the song \"Konkrete Jungle\" for that purpose. Described by CMJ as containing \"menacing hardstep attacks\" it was released on the Ultra Records compilation, \"Konkrete Jungle - Maximum Drum & Bass,\" mixed by BBC Radio 1 Drum'n'Bass show regular host Jumping Jack Frost. Following extensive touring throughout North America and abroad as a live Drum & Bass artist, Liquid Sky Music, an indie label distributed by Caroline Distribution signed her to a three-album contract in late 1996.\n\nOn the night of February 22, 2000 in Kent, Ohio Jordana was attacked and brutally beaten in a transphobic hate crime by a group of men including Matthew Gostlin of Akron, Ohio. Gostlin and other assailants jumped her in the parking lot outside of \"The Robin Hood\" nightclub where she had just performed on the Cities Collection tour. The attack took place while she was escorted from the event with the event promoter to the promoters car. The group of men attacked suddenly and Jordana lost consciousness almost immediately after being struck in the face. She suffered nerve damage to the lower part of her face from her lower lip down as a result. \nShe was quoted as saying in the May issue of CMJ New Music Monthly that in the seconds just prior to the attack: \"I saw his face. I remember the look on his face. It was this look of utter hate, like 'I'm going to kill you.'\" George Meesig of Cleveland, Ohio shoved one of the men away and helped Jordana. In an interview with the Village Voice following the attack, Meesig stated that Gostlin had \"misgendered\" her. Other reports from people on the message board for Breakbeat Science (a NYC based Drum'n'Bass record store) mentioned transphobic slurs being shouted during the attack. Jordana subsequently cancelled the tour to recover. Gostlin, while charged, was never arrested nor spent any time in court. Jordana's family was told by the Portage County (Ohio) prosecutor's office that attempts had been made to serve the warrant but Gostlin's whereabouts were unknown. As a result of no movement on the case by the authorities, Jordana felt that justice would not be served. They left the U.S. for England because of their concerns about personal safety and well-being.\n\nIn addition to production Jordana has also been a DJ, musician and singer. In 2001–2002 Jordana worked at Flex FM in London, England as Lady J with Lady Sovereign MCing for her during Jordana's radio show. In 2002 she held a club residency spinning UK Garage, 2-Step Garage and House Music at legendary club night Trinity in London's Vauxhall neighborhood.\n\nAfter returning to the US, Jordana has returned to her rock roots and fronts a melodic goth metal band in Seattle. Just prior to that she was asked to play bass in another band briefly where she met and became close friends with singer/songwriter Sheltia Burke.\n\nCurrently, Jordana is scoring the documentary, \"Free CeCe,\" produced and directed by Jacqueline Gares and actress/director Laverne Cox of the series Orange Is The New Black. The documentary details the struggles of CeCe McDonald, an African-American transwoman who was wrongfully incarcerated for murder for defending herself against a hate driven attack on her life outside of a bar in Minneapolis.\n\nJordana is working on a new Drum and Bass E.P. for Bristol, UK based Complex Records. Her guitar and vocal work have featured on clips of songs off of her new E.P. posted to Soundcloud and on cover songs she has posted on AfroPunk.com.\n\nJordana has been featured in several books. Her success rising from the depressed 80s economy of a \"rust belt\" city to MTV featured electronica artist garnered a mention in 2002 New York Times bestseller \"The Rise of the Creative Class\" by economist Richard Florida. She appears in two books examining the history and rise of the American rave/EDM scene: Michaelangelo Matos's \"The Underground is Massive\" details an early online exchange between her and Moby dealing with the role of live performance in a rave context. She is also mentioned in \"Rave Culture: An Insider's Overview\" by Jimi Fritz and Virginia Smallfry.\n\nAn extensive interview with Jordana was also featured in \"The New Transsexuals\" a book by rock journalist and illustrator George Petros(Thrasher, Seconds, Propaganda, EXIT magazines) published in 2012.\n\nShe currently resides in Seattle.\n\n\n\n\nIn 2002 Jordana licensed \"One vocal, background use, forty-five seconds (0:45) in length\" from her song \"Break In\" to Paramount Pictures for the Zoolander DVD release.\n\n"}
{"id": "36567867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36567867", "title": "A Lamusi", "text": "A Lamusi\n\nA Lamusi (Mongolian: Almas; 2 June 1989 in Inner Mongolia) is a Southern Mongol judoka who represented China in the men's 60 kg category at the 2012 Summer Olympics, he was defeated in the second round by Javier Guédez.\n"}
{"id": "39376104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39376104", "title": "Abu Faris Abdul Aziz I of Morocco", "text": "Abu Faris Abdul Aziz I of Morocco\n\nAbu Faris Abd al-Aziz bin Ali, al-Mustansir () was the Marinid Sultan of Morocco from 1366 until his death in 1372. He assumed the throne at a time when Marinid authority was in decline, but during his rule managed to reverse this trend. After his death the kingdom returned to anarchy.\n\nAbu Faris Abd al-Aziz came to power at a time when the Moorish states of Granada, Morocco and Tlemcen were all weak, and were all prone to meddling in each other's affairs.\nAbu Faris was one of the sons of Abu al-Hasan ibn Uthman, and before coming to the throne was held captive in the palace of Fez.\n\nIn 1366 Sultan Muhammad II ibn Faris of Morocco tried to remove the vizier Umar bin Abdulla al-Yabani from office, and was killed in response.\nAbu Faris Abdul-Aziz came to the throne. Once he was firmly in control he had the vizier killed.\nAbu Faris was one of the more decisive of the Marinid rulers.\nHe defeated the neighboring Zayyanid kingdom of Tlemcen, to the east.\nAbu Faris also reestablished control over Marrakesh, \nwhere a Marinid prince supported by the Hintata chief of the Atlas Mountains had seceded from the sultanate of Fez.\n\nWhen Abu Faris captured Tlemcen he took the diplomat Ibn Khaldun (1332–1406) prisoner, and enlisted him in his own service.\nLater Ibn Khaldun was to establish lasting fame for his great world history, which he started to write around 1372.\nIbn Ridwan (1318–1381), author of a major treatise on political ethics, was another of Abu Faris's senior administrators.\nHe gave asylum to Lisan ad-Din ibn al-Khatib, former vizier of Muhammed V of Granada.\nAbu Faris arranged for the Marinid forces in Gibraltar to help al-Khatib to escape to Morocco.\nHe built the Muristan al-Azizi (Azizi Hospital) in Fez and an adjacent fountain that have both survived until modern times.\n\nAbu Faris died in 1372 and was succeeded by his infant son Muhammad abu Zayyan as-Saîd II.\nThe kingdom again descended into anarchy. In 1374 Muhammad V of Granada took control of Gibraltar.\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "52801963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52801963", "title": "AlexNet", "text": "AlexNet\n\nAlexNet is the name of a convolutional neural network, designed by Alex Krizhevsky, and published with Ilya Sutskever and Krizhevsky's PhD advisor Geoffrey Hinton, who was originally resistant to the idea of his student. \n\nAlexNet competed in the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge in 2012. The network achieved a top-5 error of 15.3%, more than 10.8 percentage points lower than that of the runner up. The original paper's primary result was that the depth of the model was essential for its high performance, which was computationally expensive, but made feasible due to the utilization of GPUs during training. As of 2018, the Alexnet paper has been cited over 30,000 times. \n\nAlexNet contained eight layers; the first five were convolutional layers, some of them followed by max-pooling layers, and the last three were fully connected layers. It used the non-saturating ReLU activation function, which showed improved training performance over tanh and sigmoid.\n\nAlexNet was originally written with CUDA to run with GPU support. \n\nImageNet Classification with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks\n"}
{"id": "41145624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41145624", "title": "Alternative mating strategy", "text": "Alternative mating strategy\n\nAn alternative mating strategy is a strategy used by male or female animals, often with distinct phenotypes, that differs from the prevailing mating strategy of their sex. Such strategies are diverse and variable both across and within species. Animal sexual behaviour and mate choice directly affect social structure and relationships in many different mating systems, whether monogamous, polygamous, polyandrous, or polygynous. Though males and females in a given population typically employ a predominant reproductive strategy based on the overarching mating system, there is still significant variation in behavior among individuals of the same sex.\n\nAlternative mating strategies have been observed among both male and female animals. Most typically, alternative strategies will be adopted in the face of competition within a sex, especially in species that mate multiply. In these scenarios, some individuals will adopt very different mating strategies to achieve reproductive success. The result over time will be a variety of evolutionarily stable strategies and phenotypes, consisting of both conventional individuals and unconventional individuals who mate through alternative means. Successful strategies are maintained through sexual selection.\n\nIn many cases, the coexistence of alternative and traditional mating strategies will both maximize the average fitness of the sex in question and be evolutionarily stable for a population. However, the utilization of alternative mating strategies may oscillate as a result of varying reproductive conditions, such as the availability of potential mates. Under changing circumstances, the existence of a variety of strategies allows individuals to choose the conditional behavior that will currently maximize their fitness.\n\nConventional and alternative mating behaviors arise through sexual selection. More specifically, varying levels of reproductive success will select for phenotypes and strategies that maximize an animal's chance of obtaining a mate. As a result, certain animals successfully use a conventional mating strategy while others employing this strategy fail to obtain mates. Over time, phenotypic variance arises both between and within the sexes , with males exhibiting greater diversity in phenotype. The resulting variance in male fitness creates a niche in which alternative strategies may develop, such as sneaking to obtain a mate. The alternative behaviors persist as part of this polymorphism, or variety of phenotypes, because the average fitness of unconventional males equals the average reproductive success of conventional males.\n\nAlternative behaviors are maintained through frequency-dependent selection because of their equal fitness benefits and functional equivalence. Under frequency-dependent selection, the fitness of a given phenotype is determined by its frequency relative to other phenotypes within a population. Similarly, negative frequency-dependent selection describes a scenario in which rarer phenotypes experience greater fitness. Given that the utilization of alternative mating strategies has been shown to fluctuate over time, it has been suggested that frequency or negative frequency-dependent selection is the mechanism through which alternative mating strategies are maintained in animal populations.\n\nA second proposed model for the maintenance of alternative mating behaviors is status-dependent selection. This describes a conditional strategy in which the fitness of alternative phenotypes depend on the status, or competitive ability, of an individual. Status includes environmental and genetic factors as well as age and size, and determines the level of fitness that may be obtained from a given phenotype. As shown in Figure 1, the fitness benefits of a given phenotype vary based on whether an individual is of high or low status. In a case where two phenotypes and strategies are possible, such as mate guarding or sneaking, there will be an intermediate point of intersection where the fitness gained from these alternative behaviors will be equivalent. At this point (s), the fitness gained from these strategies will be equal, and the particular strategy employed at a given time will depend on an individual’s status. A low status individual below the switch point will obtain higher fitness with phenotype B, while an individual of high status above the switch point will benefit from higher fitness with phenotype A. Such a model shows how individuals of lesser status or competitive ability may maximize their fitness by exhibiting an alternative phenotype. In this manner, these selective forces will maintain the phenotypic diversity observed among animals with respect to mating behavior, though strategies utilized will depend on a variety of circumstances.\n\nMost of the organisms in question do not have the cognitive capacity to “strategize” in the human sense of the word, so what is a strategy? Here, a strategy is an underlying rule for making decisions about a certain behavior. A strategy provides an organism with a set of tactics that are adaptive in various circumstances. A tactic is an action taken to achieve a specific goal. For example, a wolf encounters a fallen tree and its strategy is defined by two tactics that may allow the wolf to pass the obstacle: jump over it or crawl under it. Considering the current environmental conditions, the surroundings, and the size of the tree, the wolf will decide between the tactics dictated by its strategy. In the context of a mating system, this means that individuals in a given population have strategies that allow them to obtain mates in different ways to maximize their reproductive success given their phenotypic, environmental, or social circumstances.\n\nIt is important to recognize that organisms within a population may not always have the same strategy, and different strategies may offer individuals either a range of tactical options or just one tactic. Furthermore, given strategy may be considered Mendelian, developmental, conditional, or a combination of the above. A Mendelian strategy depends on a genetically determined phenotypic difference, such as body size. This is the case in marine isopods, described below. Developmentally driven strategies are associated with phenotypic differences caused by varying conditions during the course of development that affect body size or overall adult health. Individuals may also have a conditional behavior strategy that depends not on the genetic or developmental impact on one's life circumstance, but on external factors. These may include the number of available mates, or the number of nearby competitors and their employed tactics. Additionally, some mating strategies will be impacted by the interaction of multiple factors, so these categorizations of Mendelian, developmental, and conditional are not mutually exclusive. They simply offer ways to think about alternative mating strategies and their root causes.\n\nIn any case, the mating strategies employed by organisms in various situations will ultimately depend on the strength of selection acting to maintain or eliminate certain reproductive strategies. If sexual selection strongly favors one mating strategy over a potential alternative, individuals not conforming to the successful strategy will fail to reproduce, thus preventing future generations from inheriting the unsuccessful strategy.\n\nThe diversity of mating strategies within animal populations may be understood through evolutionary game theory concepts that assess the costs and benefits of reproductive decision-making. The Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ESS) concept provides a particularly useful framework for considering alternative behaviors as they relate to fitness. Given that a strategy describes a set of pre-programmed rules that specify particular behaviors, an evolutionarily stable strategy is one that persists in a population due to its benefits to fitness. An ESS will be maintained in a population if it accords higher average fitness than other strategies, or a level of average individual fitness equivalent to all other strategies within the population.\n\nWithin an evolutionarily stable strategy, several scenarios are possible, including pure and mixed strategies. A pure strategy is one not affected by chance, in which an individual only expresses one strategic behavior. In contrast, a mixed strategy describes a scenario involving the probabilistic expression of behaviors among individuals. For example, an individual under a mixed strategy could express one mating tactic, such as sneaking, with a certain frequency and another tactic, such as mate guarding, at all other times. Though a mixed strategy is theoretically possible, it has not been documented in the context of alternative mating behaviors. Instead, a conditional strategy involving alternative behaviors may best characterize alternative mating strategies.\n\nCondition-dependent behavior in the context of mating may result from changes in resource availability and intrasexual competition for mates. When competition decreases, the expression of alternative behaviors also decreases. Changes in mating behaviors, especially among alternative males, have been documented in insects, fish, and amphibians upon removal of dominant males. Additionally, the availability of mates and resources also affects the expression of alternative strategies within a sex. The gain or loss of territory has been shown to affect mating approaches among insect species, while the receptivity and spatial distribution of mates impacts tactics used among insects, fish, and mammals. Mating behaviors are also affected by an individual’s size and age, as smaller or younger individuals are more likely to attempt reproduction through alternative means, including mimicry or sneak tactics. As a result, the ability to choose a behavior that maximizes fitness under certain circumstances evolves.\n\nIt has long been known that males in a wide variety of animal populations practice alternative mating strategies in order to maximize their reproductive fitness. This is especially common when there is male-male competition for access to mates. In cases where such alternative strategies are as successful at obtaining mates as the predominant strategy, a coexistence of different mating strategies will evolve. Below are a few common examples of male alternative mating strategies.\n\n\"Sneaking\" is any strategy that allows a male to access a female partner, avoiding more dominant males, for example those guarding a harem, as in the red deer and elephant seal. The behaviour is rare in fish, occurring in only some tens of species, including the cichlid \"Herichthys minckleyi\".\n\nHorned beetles demonstrate alternative mating strategies due to different nutritious conditions during development that affect adult body size. In this species, males who receive high levels of nutrition during development will surpass a size threshold above which they develop large horns. Males who do not pass the threshold will develop either small or nonexistent horns. These varying phenotypes will lead individual males to adopt different mating strategies. Those who develop long horns will practice mate guarding, protecting the entrance to the tunnel in which a female is resting or feeding. These males will fight any male that attempts to enter. This is a common strategy observed in populations in which females are dispersed and have synchronized periods of fertility, as well as those in which females are found in clusters that can be guarded to maintain access to more than one female.\n\nSmaller males with little or no horns have little chance of beating larger males in altercations and will thus adopt an alternative sneaking strategy, digging a new tunnel that will allow them to intercept the female’s tunnel without being noticed by the guarding male. Both of these strategies have proven, thus far, to be reproductively effective for the males practicing them, and adoption of these alternative mating strategies has contributed to the maintenance of a dimorphic male population.\n\nPygmy swordtail \"Xiphophorus multilineatus\" males offer another example of alternative mating strategies. Some males mature later at a larger size and always use courtship behavior, while other males mature early at a smaller size, sometimes using courtship behavior when alone with a female, but more often using sneaky behavior. This behavior is not preferred by the female, and is therefore not as successful as courtship in gaining matings, however the higher probability of surviving to reach sexual maturity due to maturing early is enough to maintain the smaller, sneakier males in the population.\n\nMale red paper wasps, \"Polistes canadensis\", engage in the role of the patroller as an alternative mating tactic to the role of the territorial male (who chases away intruders). Patrollers have a smaller body size than territorial males. There is significant competition over the possession of territories. Although these territories do not necessarily hold any resources or nesting sites, owning a territory tends to lead to a greater number of mating opportunities. Males attract females to these territories by rubbing their abdomens across the territories to apply pheromones. Because of their inability to successfully compete against the larger territorial males for territories, smaller males resort to patrolling. But patrollers do not just wait around for territories to be vacated; they will sneak matings with females in territories when the territorial males are temporarily away or distracted.\n\nMales practicing female mimicry may do so in order to gain access to mates in areas of where only females congregate.\n\nIn the isopod \"Paracerceis sculpta\" there are three genetically distinct male morphs. Alpha males, which represent the largest and most common male morph, tend to defend harems in order to monopolize access to a large number of females. This is the predominant mating strategy in this species. Beta males are about the same size as female isopods, and they take advantage of that fact by mimicking female behavior in order to enter harems and gain access to fertile females. Gamma males are the smallest morph. These individuals adopt a sneaking strategy and rely on their small body size to enter harems undetected and remain in them while they seek mating opportunities. These distinct strategies, all determined by a single genetic locus, give equivalent lifetime mating success to each of the three morphs, indicating that natural selection is not acting on one morph more strongly than another. All three alleles expressed in the population will continue to contribute to male morphology as long as the reproductive success granted by each one continues to be as beneficial as the others.\n\nHistorically, while male alternative strategies have been well documented, alternative female strategies have not been studied extensively. This large discrepancy in information is mostly due to two factors. First, male mating behavior is typically driven by competition for mates, such as physical competition, territoriality, or parental care investment. Thus, male alternative behaviors arise as a direct result of these various forms of competition. However, females typically do not compete directly for these resources or mates. Instead, females indirectly compete through differences in premating, mating and post-mating behavior. The subtle nature of female competition makes alternative behaviors very difficult to study relative to males. Second, males are more likely to experience sexual selection than females. Due to this increased selection, it is statistically more likely for alternative strategies to evolve in males than females. However, though subtle and slightly less commonly, females can experience limitations in access to males and male parental care. Thus, alternative female strategies have evolved to circumvent these limitations. Below are some examples of alternative female strategies seen in nature.\n\nIn the guppy, \"Poecilia reticulata\", females will copy another female’s mate choice if given the opportunity to watch the other female choose. While older females do not copy younger females, younger females will copy older females. This copying behavior arises from a difference in ability to assess males. Since this behavior only arises when in the presence of another female, it is a behavioral alternative to the norm of just choosing a male mate based on personal assessment.\n\nIn the damselfish, \"Chromis multilineata\", females can often become infected with the parasite \"Anilocra chromis\". In the event of infection, males do not allow infected females into the nest and do not mate with them. Thus, to bypass this limitation to mating, infected females will often sneak into male nests. Although the female is often immediately chased out, this behavior serves as evidence that sneaking is not just an alternative male strategy. In fact, sneaking is just a common strategy for any sex that is denied mating to a certain class of animals. The strategy of these infected females is therefore another behavioral alternative strategy.\n\nIn damselflies, \"Ischnura\", females are frequently harassed by males that wish to mate. There is significant variation in the females’ physical abilities to tolerate male mating harassment. In this species, there is a physical dimorphism: one type is cryptic (heteromorphic) and the other type looks like a male (andromorph). In many cases the andromorph even behaves like a male when among other males. Studies have found that the andromorph only mates half as often as the heteromorph. While a decrease in mating would be devastating for males, it is often an advantage in females. For females, excessive mating is a waste of time and energy and it increases exposure to predators. Thus, the ability to ward off extra mating gives the andromorphs a frequency dependent selective advantage. This is example of a traditionally male characterized Mendelian alternative strategy that has now been observed in females.\n\n"}
{"id": "58032582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58032582", "title": "Anna Maria Chetwode", "text": "Anna Maria Chetwode\n\nAnna Maria Chetwode known as Miss Chetwode (\"fl.\" 1827) was an Irish novelist.\n\nAnna Maria Chetwode was the daughter of Reverend John Chetwode of Glanmire, County Cork, and Elizabeth Chetwode (née Hamilton). She was the granddaughter of Knightley Chetwode, a friend of Jonathan Swift. Miss Chetwode has been identified as Anna Maria by eliminating her parents' other daughters. Reverend John Chetwode wrote poetry, but was never published. He was rector at Rathconey in Glanmire, from 1790 until his death in 1814. Chetwode was still living in Glanmire in 1821. Chetwode travelled to Russia in the early 1800s, staying near Moscow with Yekaterina Vorontsova-Dashkova at her Troitskoe estate. Through the marriage of her sister, Elizabeth Hester, to Robert Wilmot she was connected to his sisters Katherine and Martha.\n\nChetwode wrote at least three novels, though she is believed to have authored more. Her books \"Blue-stocking Hall\" (1827) and \"Tales of my time\" (1829) were previously incorrectly attributed to a minister in East Anglia, William Pitt Scargill. The Irish antiquarian, John Windele, identifies Chetwode as the author of these books in 1839. \"Blue-stocking Hall\" is a epistolary novel set in County Kerry, and advocates for women's education. A book called \"Snugborough\" has also been ascribed to Chetwode. A number of Chetwode's poems, noted with her initials, are amongst the Wilmot papers in the Royal Irish Academy. In these papers there is a poem by Chetwode in memory of Thomas Addis Emmet.\n"}
{"id": "5589044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5589044", "title": "Antireductionism", "text": "Antireductionism\n\nAntireductionism is the position in science and metaphysics that stands in contrast to reductionism (anti-holism) by advocating that not all properties of a system can be explained in terms of its constituent parts and their interactions. E.g. it is a fact of classical reductionistic physics--that the electromagnetic potential exists as a continuum . The opposite of reductionism is holism, that understanding a system can be done only as a whole. One form of antireductionism (epistemological) holds that we simply are not capable of understanding systems at the level of their most basic constituents, and so the program of reductionism must fail. The other kind of antireductionism (ontological) holds that such a complete explanation in terms of basic constituents is not possible even in principle for some systems. Robert Laughlin, e.g. supports this view. Disciplines such as cybernetics and systems theory embrace a non-reductionist view of science, sometimes going as far as explaining phenomena at a given level of hierarchy in terms of phenomena at a higher level, in a sense, the opposite of a reductionist approach.\n\nAlthough breaking complex phenomena into parts is a key method in science, there are those complex phenomena (e.g. in physics, psychology, sociology, ecology) where the approach does not work. Antireductionism also arises in academic fields such as history, economics, anthropology, medicine, and biology as dissatisfaction with attempts to explain complex phenomena using simplistic, ill-fitting models, which do not provide much insight.\n\nAn example of antireductionism in psychology is Davidson's proposed ontology of what he calls 'events' and its use \"to provide an antireductionist answer to the mind/matter debate ...[and to show that]...the impossibility of intertranslating the two idioms by means of psychophysical laws blocks any analytically reductive relation between...the mental and the physical\".\n\nKarl Popper was a famous proponent of antireductionism. In his book \"Of clouds and clocks\", Popper classified phenomena into two types: \"clock\" phenomena with a mechanical basis and \"cloud\" phenomena which are indivisible and depend upon emergence for explanation.\n\nFor example, Popper thought that a materialist explanation of consciousness is not possible. The view of reductionists about consciousness is explained by Velmans:\n\nVelmans himself is not in agreement with this reductionist stance. Opposition to this \"mind = brain\" reductionism is found in many authors. An often mentioned issue is that science cannot explain the hard problem of consciousness, the subjective feelings called qualia. However, a more telling objection is that science is not a self-contained entity, because the theories it uses are creations of the human mind, not inevitable results of experiment and observation, and the criteria for adoption of a particular theory are not definitive in selecting between alternatives, but require subjective input. Even the claim that science is based upon testability of its theories has been met with qualifications.\n\nAccording to Alex Rosenberg and David Kaplan, the conflict between physicalism and antireductionism can be resolved, that \"both reductionists and antireductionists accept that given our cognitive interests and limitations, non-molecular explanations may not be improved, corrected or grounded in molecular ones\". However, others find that the conflict between reductionism and antireductionism is \"one of the central problems in the philosophy of psychology...an updated version of the old mind-body problem: how levels of theories in the behavioral and brain sciences relate to one another. Many contemporary philosophers of mind believe that cognitive-psychological theories are not reducible to neurological theories...most nonreductive physicalists prefer the idea of a one-way dependence of the mental on the physical.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10582830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10582830", "title": "Bionic architecture", "text": "Bionic architecture\n\nBionic architecture is a movement for the design and construction of expressive buildings whose layout and lines borrow from natural (i.e. biological) forms. The movement began to mature in the early 21st century, and thus in early designs research was stressed over practicality. One of the tasks set themselves by the movement's early pioneers was the development of aesthetic and economic justifications for their approach to architecture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16936498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16936498", "title": "Bite the bullet", "text": "Bite the bullet\n\nTo \"bite the bullet\" is to endure a painful or otherwise unpleasant situation that is seen as unavoidable. The phrase was first recorded by Rudyard Kipling in his 1891 novel \"The Light that Failed\".\n\nIt was suggested by the movie \"Bite the Bullet\" that biting the bullet meant using a shell casing to cover an aching tooth, especially one that had been broken, and where a nerve is exposed. In the film, the slug was removed from the bullet, the cap was hit to expend that charge, and the casing was cut down to allow it to sit level with the other teeth.\n\nIt is often stated that it is derived historically from the practice of having a patient clench a bullet in his or her teeth as a way to cope with the extreme pain of a surgical procedure without anesthetic, though evidence for biting a bullet rather than a leather strap during surgery is sparse. It has been speculated to have evolved from the British empire expression \"to bite the cartridge\", which dates to the Indian Rebellion of 1857, but the phrase \"chew a bullet\", with a similar meaning, dates to at least 1796.\n\nA more specific meaning of the phrase is to accept unpleasant consequences of one's assumed beliefs. Sound reasoning requires its practitioner to always sustain a consistent set of beliefs. This may involve accepting a disturbing belief that is a consequence of one's currently held beliefs. It may be disturbing because it is counterintuitive or has other disturbing consequences. Given a philosopher's currently held beliefs that he or she is not prepared to give up, he or she may have to \"bite the bullet\" by accepting a particular claim offered as an extreme case or putative counterexample.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40729031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40729031", "title": "Capital punishment in Kazakhstan", "text": "Capital punishment in Kazakhstan\n\nCapital punishment in Kazakhstan has been abolished for ordinary crimes, but is still permitted for crimes occurring in special circumstances (such as war crimes). Kazakhstan, Russia, and Belarus are the only European countries which have not abolished capital punishment for all crimes (Russia retains it in law, but has \"de-facto\" abolished it through a moratorium. In addition to war crimes, Belarus retains the death penalty for ordinary crimes too, and actively uses it). The legal method of execution in Kazakhstan is shooting, specifically a single shot to the back of the head.\n\nKazakhstan is not a member of the Council of Europe (which prohibits the use of the death penalty).\n\nThe last known executions in Kazakhstan took place in 2003, when 17 men were executed by shooting between May and November.\n\nOn December 17, 2003, President Nursultan Nazarbayev introduced a moratorium on executions, and later commuted the death sentences of some 40 inmates to life in prison. In 2007, Kazakhstan amended its Constitution abolishing the death penalty for all crimes except terrorist acts that cause loss of human life and exceptionally grave crimes committed during wartime. \n\nAmnesty International classifies Kazakhstan as \"Abolitionist for ordinary crimes only\". Additionally, women cannot be sentenced to death under Kazakh law.\n\nSince the moratorium was instituted, six people have been sentenced to death in Kazakhstan. All but one have since had their death sentences commuted.\n\nIn 2008 and 2016, Kazakhstan voted in favor of the UN Moratorium on the Death Penalty.\n\nIn 2006, former police officer Rustam Ibragimov was sentenced to death for masterminding the assassination of prominent politician Altynbek Sarsenbayuly. In 2014, Ibragimov's death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment. Until 2016, Ibragimov was the last person to receive a death sentence in Kazakhstan.\n\nIn November 2016, a court in Kazakhstan sentenced mass-murderer Ruslan Kulikbayev to death for terrorism after he was convicted of killing ten people (including 8 policemen) in a shooting attack against police officers in Almaty. Kulikbayev is currently the only person under a sentence of death in Kazakhstan.\n"}
{"id": "6323761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6323761", "title": "Chappaquiddick incident", "text": "Chappaquiddick incident\n\nThe Chappaquiddick incident was a single-vehicle car accident which occurred on Chappaquiddick Island in Massachusetts on Friday, July 18, 1969. The late-night accident was caused by Senator Ted Kennedy's negligence and resulted in the death of his 28-year-old passenger Mary Jo Kopechne, who was trapped inside the vehicle.\n\nAccording to Kennedy's testimony, he accidentally drove his car off the one-lane bridge and into the tide-swept Poucha Pond. He swam free, left the scene, and did not report the accident to the police for ten hours; Kopechne died inside the fully submerged car. The car with Kopechne's body inside was recovered by a diver the next day, minutes before Kennedy reported the accident to local authorities. Kennedy pleaded guilty to a charge of leaving the scene of an accident causing personal injury, and later received a two-month suspended jail sentence.\n\nThe Chappaquiddick incident became a national scandal, which likely influenced Kennedy's decision not to campaign for President in 1972 and 1976, and it was said to have undermined his chances of ever becoming President.\n\nOn the evening of July 18, 1969, U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy hosted a party at the cottage of Sidney Lawrence () secluded on Chappaquiddick Island, which is accessible by ferry from Edgartown on Martha's Vineyard. The gathering was a reunion for six single women in their twenties which included Rosemary Keough, Esther Newberg, sisters Nance and Mary Ellen Lyons, Susan Tannenbaum, and Mary Jo Kopechne. They were the only women invited to the party, known as the Boiler Room Girls, and they had served on Robert F. Kennedy's 1968 presidential campaign. Present at the party were six older men, including co-hosts Kennedy and his cousin Joseph Gargan, as well as Paul F. Markham, Charles Tretter, and Raymond LaRosa. Markham was a school friend of Gargan's who had previously served as the U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts. Attorney Charles Tretter was a Kennedy advisor; Raymond La Rosa had known Kennedy for about 8 or 10 years and had diving experience. Kennedy's 63-year-old chauffeur John B. Crimmins also attended the party. All the men were married except Crimmins.\n\nDuring the inquest into Kopechne's death, Kennedy testified that he left the party at approximately 11:15 p.m. When he announced that he was about to leave, he claimed that Mary Jo told him \"that she was desirous of leaving\" and asked him \"if I would be kind enough to drop her back at her hotel.\" Kennedy then requested the keys to his car (which he did not usually drive) from his chauffeur Crimmins. Kennedy explained that Crimmins and some other guests \"were concluding their meal, enjoying the fellowship and it didn't appear to be necessary to require him to bring me back to Edgartown.\" Mary Jo told no one that she was leaving for the night with Kennedy, and in fact she left her purse and hotel key at the party.\n\nPart-time Deputy Sheriff Christopher \"Huck\" Look was working that night as a special duty officer at the Edgartown Yacht Club Regatta dance held on Martha's Vineyard. He left the dance between 12:25 am and 12:30 am, crossed over to Chappaquiddick Island in the yacht club's private boat (the public ferry stopped running at midnight), got into his car parked near the boat landing, and drove onto Chappaquiddick Road toward his home.\n\nLook testified that he was approaching the 90-degree right hand turn of Chappaquiddick Road at around 12:40 am where it intersected with two unpaved roads. As he approached the turn he noticed the headlights of a car coming toward him in the opposite direction on Chappaquiddick Road. The other car reached the 90-degree turn in the road before Look got there; the car was a black four-door. It passed slowly in front of Look and his headlights shone directly into the passenger compartment. He could clearly see a man driving and a woman in the front seat. The time was about 12:40 am. The car then failed to follow the paved road and instead drove straight off the pavement and onto Cemetery Road, where it stopped. Look made a right turn continuing on Chappaquiddick Road and looked in his rear-view mirror, thinking that the occupants of the car might be lost. He then stopped, got out of his car, and walked towards the other vehicle in full deputy sheriff uniform. When he was away, the car reversed and started backing up towards him. Look called out to offer his help. The car then moved forward and veered quickly eastward onto Dike Road, the other unpaved road, speeding away and leaving a cloud of dust. Look recalled that the car's license plate began with an L and contained two 7s, both details true of Kennedy's license plate on his black four-door Oldsmobile Delmont 88. Look knew that the car was headed to a dead end at Dike Bridge and the sand dunes that lay beyond it, impassable in a two-wheel drive vehicle. However, he returned to his car and continued on his way south. He recounted the next morning to Edgartown Police that he believed that the car which he saw at 12:40 am was in fact the same car that the police found in the water off Dike Bridge containing Kopechne's body.\n\nLook also saw two women and a man doing a \"conga line\" dance down the middle of Chappaquiddick Road, a short distance from where he had spotted the car speeding away toward Dike bridge. They were later identified as Kennedy's party guests Nance Lyons, Mary Ellen Lyons, and Ray LaRosa. Look stopped to ask if they needed a lift, and one of the Lyons sisters said, \"Shove off, buddy,\" after which LaRosa said apologetically, \"Thank you, no. We're just going over there to our house\" (pointing to the cottage rented by Kennedy). LaRosa and the Lyons sisters corroborated Look's testimony about meeting him in the road and the verbal exchange, but they were rather vague about the time. Look, however, was not; he knew that the time was 12:40 am or a minute or so after he spotted the Oldsmobile. LaRosa did testify that he clearly remembered encountering another car passing him and the two women that night as they danced or walked in the road, and that car passed them moments before they encountered Look. The car came from the direction of the Kennedy party (the rented cottage), and it slowly passed LaRosa and the Lyons girls as it went by and appeared to be headed in the direction from which Look came. However, LaRosa would not positively identify the vehicle which passed him as Kennedy's Oldsmobile, nor could he describe the car in any detail.\nKennedy testified at the inquest that he left the party with Kopechne at about 11:15 pm and immediately drove north on Chappaquiddick Road as he drove to the ferry landing, and he claimed that he made a wrong turn onto Dike Road. He claimed that he never stopped on Cemetery Road, never backed up, never saw the deputy, and never saw another car or person after he left the cottage with Kopechne. He further claimed that, after he turned onto Dike Road, he was driving at \"approximately 20 miles an hour\" and did not realize that he was no longer headed west toward the ferry landing, but instead east toward a barrier beach.\n\nDike Bridge () connects Tom's Neck Point and Cape Poge to Chappaquiddick Island. It was a wooden structure which was not protected by a guard rail at that time, and it was angled obliquely to the road. A fraction of a second before he reached the bridge, Kennedy applied his brakes and then drove over the south edge of the bridge. The car plunged into tide-swept Poucha Pond and came to rest underwater and upside down. Kennedy later stated that he was able to swim free of the vehicle, but Kopechne was not. He claimed at the inquest that he called her name several times from the shore and tried to swim down to reach her seven or eight times. He then rested on the bank for around 15 minutes before he returned on foot to Lawrence Cottage, the site of the party. He denied seeing any house with a light on during his walk back.\nKennedy's foot route back to Lawrence Cottage would have taken him past four houses from which he could have telephoned to summon help before he reached the cottage. He did not, however, attempt to contact the local residents. The first of the houses was \"Dike House\", from the bridge and occupied by Sylvia Malm and her family at the time of the incident. Malm stated later that she was home, she had a phone, and she had left a light on at the residence when she retired that evening.\n\nKennedy testified that he returned to the rented cottage where the party was still in progress, but he did not alert all of the party guests of the accident. Instead, he collapsed in the back seat of a rented car parked in the driveway and quietly summoned Joe Gargan and Paul Markham. After a brief hushed conversation outside the cottage, the three men rushed to the waterway and Kennedy's overturned car to try to rescue Kopechne. Gargan and Markham both claimed that they tried multiple times to dive into the water to rescue her. Kennedy testified that their efforts failed, and Gargan and Markham drove him to the ferry landing. Gargan, Markham, and Kennedy were all lawyers, and they discussed what they should do while standing next to a public phone booth at the landing. Gargan and Markham insisted multiple times that the accident had to be reported to the authorities. Markham testified that Kennedy was sobbing and on the verge of becoming crazed. Kennedy testified that he had \"full intention of reporting it. And I mentioned to Gargan and Markham something like, 'You take care of the other girls; I will take care of the accident!'—that is what I said and I dove into the water.\" Kennedy had told Gargan and Markham not to tell the other women anything about the incident \"because I felt strongly that if these girls were notified that an accident had taken place and Mary Jo had, in fact, drowned, that it would only be a matter of seconds before all of those girls, who were long and dear friends of Mary Jo's, would go to the scene of the accident and enter the water with, I felt, a good chance that some serious mishap might have occurred to any one of them.\"\n\nGargan and Markham later testified that they assumed that Kennedy was going to inform the authorities about the accident once he got back to Edgartown, and so they did not do the reporting themselves. Kennedy testified that he dived into the water near the ferry landing, then swam across the channel back to Edgartown and returned to his hotel room, where he removed his clothes and collapsed on his bed. He later put on dry clothes, left his room, and asked someone what the time was; it was somewhere around 2:30 a.m., he recalled. Meanwhile, Gargan and Markham had already driven the rental car back to the cottage; they entered the cottage at approximately 2 a.m. but told no one what had happened. When questioned, they said that Kennedy had swum back to Edgartown and that Kopechne was probably at her hotel, then told everyone to get some sleep.\n\nKennedy testified that he was back at the hotel and \"almost tossed and turned and walked around that room…. I had not given up hope all night long that, by some miracle, Mary Jo would have escaped from the car.\" Kennedy complained to the hotel owner at 2:55 a.m. that he had been awakened by a noisy party. Boyle, p. 70, reported at Damore, p. 364.</ref> By 7:30 a.m., he was talking \"casually\" to the winner of the previous day's sailing race and gave no indication that anything was amiss. At 8 a.m., Gargan and Markham found him at his hotel where they had a \"heated conversation\" in Kennedy's room. According to Kennedy's testimony, the two men asked why he had not reported the accident, and he responded by telling them \"about my own thoughts and feelings as I swam across that channel… that somehow when they arrived in the morning that they were going to say that Mary Jo was still alive.\"\n\nThe three men subsequently crossed back to Chappaquiddick Island on the ferry, where Kennedy made a series of telephone calls from a pay telephone near the ferry crossing—the same pay phone that the three men had stood by approximately six hours earlier discussing Kennedy's options. Kennedy called friends and lawyers for advice, however, instead of notifying the authorities that he was the operator of the vehicle which was still upside down near Dike bridge. He called Helga Wagner, John V. Tunney, and others that morning, but he still did not report the accident to authorities. Robert McNamara, Ted Sorensen, Richard N. Goodwin, Lem Billings, Milton Gwirtzman, David W. Burke, John Culver, John Tunney, Stephen Edward Smith, Joseph F. Gargan, Paul E. Markham, and others arrived to advise Kennedy.\n\nA short time after 8 am, a fisherman and his young son saw Kennedy's submerged car with Kopechne still inside, and they notified the residents of the cottage nearest the scene, who in turn called the authorities at about 8:20 a.m. Edgartown Police Chief James Arena arrived at the scene about 10 or 15 minutes later. He attempted to examine the interior of the submerged vehicle, then summoned a commercial diver with equipment capable of towing or winching the vehicle out of the water. John Farrar, captain of the Edgartown Fire Rescue unit, arrived at 8:45 a.m. equipped with scuba gear and discovered Kopechne's body; he extricated it from the vehicle within 10 minutes. Police checked the car's license plate and saw that it was registered to Kennedy. Meanwhile, Kennedy was still at the pay phone by the ferry crossing when he heard that his car and Kopechne's body had been discovered; he then crossed back to Edgartown and went to the police station. Gargan simultaneously went to where the \"Boiler Room Girls\" were staying to inform them about the incident.\n\nKennedy entered the police station in Edgartown at 10 am, made a couple more telephone calls, and then dictated a statement to his aide Paul Markham, which Markham hand wrote and gave to the police. The statement read:\n\nOn July 18, 1969, at approximately 11:15 p.m. in Chappaquiddick, Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, I was driving my car on Main Street on my way to get the ferry back to Edgartown. I was unfamiliar with the road and turned right onto Dike Road, instead of bearing hard left on Main Street. After proceeding for approximately one-half mile on Dike Road I descended a hill and came upon a narrow bridge. The car went off the side of the bridge. There was one passenger with me, one Miss Mary, a former secretary of my brother Sen. Robert Kennedy. The car turned over and sank into the water and landed with the roof resting on the bottom. I attempted to open the door and the window of the car but have no recollection of how I got out of the car. I came to the surface and then repeatedly dove down to the car in an attempt to see if the passenger was still in the car. I was unsuccessful in the attempt. I was exhausted and in a state of shock. I recall walking back to where my friends were eating. There was a car parked in front of the cottage and I climbed into the backseat. I then asked for someone to bring me back to Edgartown. I remember walking around for a period and then going back to my hotel room. When I fully realized what had happened this morning, I immediately contacted the police.\n\nKennedy pleaded guilty on July 25, seven days after the incident, to a charge of leaving the scene of an accident causing bodily injury. His attorneys suggested that any jail sentence should be suspended, and the prosecutors agreed by citing his age (37), character, and prior reputation. Judge James Boyle sentenced him to two months' incarceration, the statutory minimum for the offense, which he suspended. He referred to Kennedy's \"unblemished record\" and said that he \"has already been, and will continue to be punished far beyond anything this court can impose.\"\n\nAt 7:30 that evening, Kennedy made a lengthy prepared statement about the incident which was broadcast live by the television networks. He said that:\n\nKennedy then asked the people of Massachusetts to decide whether he should resign:\n\nHe concluded by quoting a passage from his brother John's book \"Profiles in Courage\".\n\nJohn Farrar was the captain of the Edgartown Fire Rescue unit and the diver who recovered Kopechne's body. He alleged that Kopechne died from suffocation rather than from drowning or from the impact of the overturned vehicle. This hypothesis was based upon the posture in which he found the body and the body's position relative to an air pocket in the overturned vehicle. Farrar also asserted that Kopechne would have probably survived if a more timely rescue attempt had been conducted. Farrar located Kopechne's body in the well of the back seat of the car. Rigor mortis was apparent, her hands were clasping the back seat, and her face was turned upward. He testified at the inquest:\n\nLater at the inquest, Farrar testified that Kopechne's body was pressed up in the car in the spot where an air bubble would have formed. He interpreted that to mean that she had survived in the air bubble after the car submerged, and he concluded that:\n\nFarrar believed that Kopechne \"lived for at least two hours down there.\"\n\nThe victim wore a blouse, bra, and slacks, but no panties. Medical examiner Dr. Donald Mills was satisfied that the cause of death was accidental drowning. He signed a death certificate to that effect and released Kopechne's body to her family without ordering an autopsy; the funeral was on Tuesday, July 22 in Plymouth, Pennsylvania. District Attorney Edmund Dinis attempted on September 18 to secure an exhumation of Kopechne's body to perform a belated autopsy, citing blood found on her long-sleeved blouse and in her mouth and nose \"which may or may not be consistent with death by drowning.\" The discovery of the blood was made when her clothes were given to authorities by the funeral director.\n\nJudge Bernard Brominski of the Court of Common Pleas in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania had a hearing on the request on October 20–21. The request was opposed by Kopechne's parents. Forensic pathologist Werner Spitz testified on behalf of Joseph and Gwen Kopechne that the autopsy was unnecessary and the available evidence was sufficient to conclude that Kopechne died from drowning. Judge Brominski ruled against the exhumation on December 10, saying that there was \"no evidence\" that \"anything other than drowning had caused the death of Mary Jo Kopechne.\"\n\nThe inquest convened in Edgartown in January 1970. At the request of Kennedy's lawyers, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ordered it to be performed secretly with Judge James A. Boyle presiding, and the 763-page transcript was released four months later. The following conclusions were released in his inquest report:\n\nUnder Massachusetts law, Boyle found \"probable cause\" that Kennedy had committed a crime and could have issued a warrant for his arrest, but he did not do so. Despite Boyle's conclusions, Dinis chose not to prosecute Kennedy for manslaughter. The Kopechne family did not bring any legal action against him but did receive a payment of $90,904 from him personally and $50,000 from his insurance company. The Kopechnes later explained their decision not to take legal action by saying, \"We figured that people would think we were looking for blood money.\"\n\nOn April 6, 1970, a Dukes County grand jury assembled in special session to investigate Kopechne's death. Judge Wilfred Paquet instructed the members of the grand jury that they could consider only matters brought to their attention by the superior court, the district attorney, or their personal knowledge. He cited the orders of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court and told the grand jury that it could not see the evidence or Boyle's report from the inquest, which were still impounded. Dinis had attended the inquest and seen Boyle's report, and he told the grand jury that there was not enough evidence to indict Kennedy on potential charges of manslaughter, perjury, or driving to endanger. The grand jury called four witnesses who had not testified at the inquest; they testified for a total of 20 minutes, but no indictments were issued.\n\nOn July 23, 1969, the registrar of the Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles informed Kennedy that his license would be suspended until there was a statutory hearing concerning the accident. The suspension was required by Massachusetts law for any fatal motor accident if there were no witnesses. The \"in camera\" hearing was held May 18, 1970 and found that \"operation was too fast for existing conditions.\" On May 27, the registrar informed Kennedy in a letter that \"I am unable to find that the fatal accident in which a motor vehicle operated by you was involved, was without serious fault on your part\" and so his driver's license was suspended for a further six months.\n\nKennedy's wife Joan was pregnant at the time of the incident. She was confined to bed because of two previous miscarriages, but she attended Kopechne's funeral and stood beside Ted in court three days later. Soon after, she suffered a third miscarriage, which she blamed on the Chappaquiddick incident.\n\nA BBC \"Inside Story\" episode titled \"Chappaquiddick\" was broadcast on the 25th anniversary of Kopechne's death. It advanced a theory that Kennedy and Kopechne had left the party in Kennedy's car, but Kennedy saw an off-duty policeman in his patrol car and he got out of the car, fearing the political consequences of being discovered by the police late at night with an attractive woman. According to the theory, he then returned to the party; Kopechne was unfamiliar both with the large car and the local area and consequently drove the wrong way and careened off the bridge. The episode argued that the explanation would account for Kennedy's lack of concern the next morning, as he was unaware of the accident, and for the forensic evidence of the injuries to Kopechne being inconsistent with her sitting in the passenger seat.\n\nJack Olsen had advanced a similar theory in his book \"The Bridge at Chappaquiddick\", published early in 1970 and the first full-length examination of the case. Kopechne was , a foot shorter than Kennedy, and Olsen argued that she might possibly not have seen the bridge, as she drove Kennedy's car over unfamiliar roads at night, with no external lighting and after she had consumed several alcoholic drinks. He wrote that Kopechne normally drove a smaller Volkswagen model car, which was much lighter and easier to handle than Kennedy's larger Oldsmobile.\n\nThe case evoked much satire of Kennedy. For example, \"Time\" magazine reported immediately after the incident that \"one sick joke already visualizes a Democrat asking about Nixon during the 1972 presidential campaign: 'Would you let this man sell you a used car?' Answer: 'Yes, but I sure wouldn't let that Teddy drive it.'\" A mock advertisement in \"National Lampoon\" magazine showed a floating Volkswagen Beetle, itself a parody of a Volkswagen advertisement showing that the vehicle's underside was so well sealed that it would float on water, but with the caption \"If Ted Kennedy drove a Volkswagen, he'd be President today.\" The satire resulted in legal action by Volkswagen, claiming unauthorized use of its trademark.\n\nFollowing his televised speech on July 25 regarding the incident, supporters responded with telephone calls and telegrams to newspapers and to the Kennedy family. They were heavily in favor of his remaining in office, and he was re-elected in 1970 with 62% of the vote, a margin of nearly a half million votes. Nonetheless, the incident severely damaged his national reputation and reputation for judgment; one analyst asked, \"Can we really trust him if the Russians come over the ice cap? Can he make the kind of split-second decisions the astronauts had to make in their landing on the moon?\" Before Chappaquiddick, public polls showed that a large majority expected Kennedy to run for the presidency in 1972, but he pledged not to run in 1972 and declined to serve as George McGovern's running mate that year. In 1974, he pledged not to run in 1976, in part because of the renewed media interest in Chappaquiddick.\n\nIn late 1979, Kennedy finally announced his candidacy for the presidency when he challenged President Jimmy Carter for the Democratic nomination for the 1980 election. On November 4, 1979, CBS broadcast a one-hour television special presented by Roger Mudd titled \"Teddy\". The program consisted of an interview with Kennedy interspersed with visual materials. Much of the show was devoted to the Chappaquiddick incident. During the interview, Mudd questioned Kennedy repeatedly about the incident and at one point directly accused him of lying. Kennedy also gave what one author described as an \"incoherent and repetitive\" answer to the question, \"Why do you want to be President?\" The program inflicted serious political damage on Kennedy. Carter alluded to the Chappaquiddick incident twice in five days, once declaring that he had not \"panicked in the crisis.\" Kennedy lost the Democratic nomination to Carter, who lost the general election to Ronald Reagan by a landslide, but Kennedy remained a senator until his death in 2009. He won all seven elections for the US Senate after the incident.\n\nAfter Kennedy's death, \"New York Times Magazine\" editor Ed Klein stated that Kennedy asked people, \"Have you heard any new jokes about Chappaquiddick?\" \"It's not that he didn't feel remorse about the death of Mary Jo Kopechne,\" Klein argued, \"but that he still always saw the other side of everything and the ridiculous side of things, too.\" The Dike Bridge became an unwanted tourist attraction and the object of souvenir hunters. Nance Lyons stated in a 2008 interview that the women present at Chappaquiddick had suffered both professionally and personally.\n\nThe incident is the central subject of John Curran's film \"Chappaquiddick\". The incident is fictionalized in the novella \"Black Water\" by Joyce Carol Oates.\n\n"}
{"id": "10828129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10828129", "title": "Childbirth positions", "text": "Childbirth positions\n\nThe term childbirth positions (or \"maternal birthing position\") refers to the physical postures the pregnant mother may assume during the process of childbirth. They may also be referred to as delivery positions or labor positions.\n\nIn addition to the lithotomy position, still commonly used by many obstetricians, other positions are successfully used by midwives and traditional birth-attendants around the world. Engelmann's seminal work \"Labor among primitive peoples\" publicised the childbirth positions amongst primitive cultures to the Western world. They frequently use squatting, standing, kneeling and all fours positions, often in a sequence. They are referred to as upright birth positions\n\nVarious people have promoted the adoption of upright birthing positions, particularly squatting, for Western countries, such as Grantly Dick-Read, Janet Balaskas, Moysés Paciornik and Hugo Sabatino. The adoption of the non-lithotomy positions is also promoted by the natural childbirth movement.\n\nBeing upright during labour and birth can increase the available space within the pelvis by 28-30% giving more room to the baby for rotation and descent. There is also a 54% decreased incidence of foetal heart rate abnormalities when the mother is upright. These birthing positions can also reduce the duration of the second stage of labour as well as reduce the risk for emergency caesarian sections by 29%. They are also associated with the lower need for epidural.\n\nDifferent positions may be associated with different rates of perineal injury.\n\nThe squatting position gives a greater increase of pressure in the pelvic cavity with minimal muscular effort. The birth canal will open 20 to 30% more in a squat than in any other position. It is recommended for the second stage of childbirth.\n\nAs most Western adults find it difficult to squat with heels down, compromises are often made such as putting a support under the elevated heels or another person supporting the squatter.\n\nIn ancient Egypt, women delivered babies while squatting on a pair of bricks, known as \"birth bricks\".\n\nSome mothers may choose the all-fours position instinctively. It can help the baby turn around in the case of a malpresentation of the head. Since this position uses gravity, it decreases back pain, as the mother is able to tilt her hips.\n\nSide lying may help slow the baby's descent down the birth canal, thereby giving the perineum more time to naturally stretch. To assume this position, the mother lies on her side with her knees bent. To push, a slight rolling movement is used such that the mother is propped up on one elbow is needed, while one leg is held up. This position does not use gravity but still holds an advantage over the lithotomy position, as it does not position the vena cava under the uterus, which decreases blood flow to mother and child.\n\nIn the lithotomy position, the mother is lying on her back with her legs up in stirrups and her buttocks close to the edge of the table. This position is convenient for the caregiver because it permits him or her more access to the perineum. However, this is not a comfortable position for most patients, considering the pressure on the vaginal walls because the baby's head is uneven and the labor process is working against gravity.\n"}
{"id": "554546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554546", "title": "Crossover (genetic algorithm)", "text": "Crossover (genetic algorithm)\n\nIn genetic algorithms and evolutionary computation, crossover, also called recombination, is a genetic operator used to combine the genetic information of two parents to generate new offspring. It is one way to stochastically generate new solutions from an existing population, and analogous to the crossover that happens during sexual reproduction in biology. Solutions can also be generated by cloning an existing solution, which is analogous to asexual reproduction. Newly generated solutions are typically mutated before being added to the population.\n\nDifferent algorithms in evolutionary computation may use different data structures to store genetic information, and each genetic representation can be recombined with different crossover operators. Typical data structures that can be recombined with crossover are bit arrays, vectors of real numbers, or trees.\n\nTraditional genetic algorithms store genetic information in a chromosome represented by a bit array. Crossover methods for bit arrays are popular and an illustrative example of genetic recombination.\n\nA point on both parents' chromosomes is picked randomly, and designated a 'crossover point'. Bits to the right of that point are swapped between the two parent chromosomes. This results in two offspring, each carrying some genetic information from both parents.\n\nIn two-point crossover, two crossover points are picked randomly from the parent chromosomes. The bits in between the two points are swapped between the parent organisms. \n\nTwo-point crossover is equivalent to performing two single-point crossovers with different crossover points. This strategy can be generalized to k-point crossover for any positive integer k, picking k crossover points.\n\nIn uniform crossover, each bit from the offspring's genome is independently chosen from the two parents according to a given distribution. In contrast to k-point crossover, uniform crossover exchanges individual bits and not segments of the bit array. This means there is no bias for two bits that are close together in the array to be inherited together.\n\nTypically, each bit is chosen from either parent with equal probability. Other mixing ratios are sometimes used, resulting in offspring which inherit more genetic information from one parent than the other.\n\nIn some genetic algorithms, not all possible chromosomes represent valid solutions. In some cases, it is possible to use specialized crossover and mutation operators that are designed to avoid violating the constraints of the problem.\n\nFor example, a genetic algorithm solving the travelling salesman problem may use an ordered list of cities to represent a solution path. Such a chromosome only represents a valid solution if the list contains all the cities that the salesman must visit. Using the above crossovers will often result in chromosomes that violate that constraint. Genetic algorithms optimizing the ordering of a given list thus require different crossover operators that will avoid generating invalid solutions. Many such crossovers have been published:\nOther possible methods include the edge recombination operator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7558596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7558596", "title": "Danube (ship)", "text": "Danube (ship)\n\nDanube, a 1,459-ton sailing ship named after the second longest river in Europe, was built in 1890 for the Nourse Line.\n\nOn 15 June 1891, \"Danubve\" made a voyage to Fiji carrying 591 Indian indentured labourers. She also made a trip to Trinidad carrying 609 passengers, arriving on 1 January 1892; there were 29 deaths during this voyage.\n\nLater in 1892, \"Danube\" disappeared during a voyage from Guadeloupe to New York City. Her fate remains a mystery.\n\n"}
{"id": "343169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343169", "title": "Dendritic spine", "text": "Dendritic spine\n\nA dendritic spine (or spine) is a small membranous protrusion from a neuron's dendrite that typically receives input from a single axon at the synapse. Dendritic spines serve as a storage site for synaptic strength and help transmit electrical signals to the neuron's cell body. Most spines have a bulbous head (the spine head), and a thin neck that connects the head of the spine to the shaft of the dendrite. The dendrites of a single neuron can contain hundreds to thousands of spines. In addition to spines providing an anatomical substrate for memory storage and synaptic transmission, they may also serve to increase the number of possible contacts between neurons.\n\nDendritic spines are small with spine head volumes ranging 0.01 µm to 0.8 µm. Spines with strong synaptic contacts typically have a large spine head, which connects to the dendrite via a membranous neck. The most notable classes of spine shape are \"thin\", \"stubby\", \"mushroom\", and \"branched\". Electron microscopy studies have shown that there is a continuum of shapes between these categories. The variable spine shape and volume is thought to be correlated with the strength and maturity of each spine-synapse.\n\nDendritic spines usually receive excitatory input from axons although sometimes both inhibitory and excitatory connections are made onto the same spine head.\nSpines are found on the dendrites of most principal neurons in the brain, including the pyramidal neurons of the neocortex, the medium spiny neurons of the striatum, and the Purkinje cells of the cerebellum.\n\nDendritic spines occur at a density of up to 5 spines/1 µm stretch of dendrite. Hippocampal and cortical pyramidal neurons may receive tens of thousands of mostly excitatory inputs from other neurons onto their equally numerous spines, whereas the number of spines on Purkinje neuron dendrites is an order of magnitude larger.\n\nThe cytoskeleton of dendritic spines is particularly important in their synaptic plasticity; without a dynamic cytoskeleton, spines would be unable to rapidly change their volumes or shapes in responses to stimuli. These changes in shape might affect the electrical properties of the spine. The cytoskeleton of dendritic spines is primarily made of filamentous actin (F-actin). tubulin Monomers and microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) are present, and organized microtubules are present. Because spines have a cytoskeleton of primarily actin, this allows them to be highly dynamic in shape and size. The actin cytoskeleton directly determines the morphology of the spine, and actin regulators, small GTPases such as Rac, RhoA, and CDC42, rapidly modify this cytoskeleton. Overactive Rac1 results in consistently smaller dendritic spines.\n\nIn addition to their electrophysiological activity and their receptor-mediated activity, spines appear to be vesicularly active and may even translate proteins. Stacked discs of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SERs) have been identified in dendritic spines. Formation of this \"spine apparatus\" depends on the protein synaptopodin and is believed to play an important role in calcium handling. \"Smooth\" vesicles have also been identified in spines, supporting the vesicular activity in dendritic spines. The presence of polyribosomes in spines also suggests protein translational activity in the spine itself, not just in the dendrite.\n\nDendritic spines express glutamate receptors (e.g. AMPA receptor and NMDA receptor) on their surface. The TrkB receptor for BDNF is also expressed on the spine surface, and is believed to play a role in spine survival. The tip of the spine contains an electron-dense region referred to as the \"postsynaptic density\" (PSD). The PSD directly apposes the active zone of its synapsing axon and comprises ~10% of the spine's membrane surface area; neurotransmitters released from the active zone bind receptors in the postsynaptic density of the spine. Half of the synapsing axons and dendritic spines are physically tethered by calcium-dependent cadherin, which forms cell-to-cell adherent junctions between two neurons.\n\nGlutamate receptors (GluRs) are localized to the postsynaptic density, and are anchored by cytoskeletal elements to the membrane. They are positioned directly above their signalling machinery, which is typically tethered to the underside of the plasma membrane, allowing signals transmitted by the GluRs into the cytosol to be further propagated by their nearby signalling elements to activate signal transduction cascades. The localization of signalling elements to their GluRs is particularly important in ensuring signal cascade activation, as GluRs would be unable to affect particular downstream effects without nearby signallers.\n\nSignalling from GluRs is mediated by the presence of an abundance of proteins, especially kinases, that are localized to the postsynaptic density. These include calcium-dependent calmodulin, CaMKII (calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II), PKC (Protein Kinase C), PKA (Protein Kinase A), Protein Phosphatase-1 (PP-1), and Fyn tyrosine kinase. Certain signallers, such as CaMKII, are upregulated in response to activity.\n\nSpines are particularly advantageous to neurons by compartmentalizing biochemical signals. This can help to encode changes in the state of an individual synapse without necessarily affecting the state of other synapses of the same neuron. The length and width of the spine neck has a large effect on the degree of compartmentalization, with thin spines being the most biochemically isolated spines.\n\nDendritic spines are very \"plastic\", that is, spines change significantly in shape, volume, and number in small time courses. Because spines have a primarily actin cytoskeleton, they are dynamic, and the majority of spines change their shape within seconds to minutes because of the dynamicity of actin remodeling. Furthermore, spine number is very variable and spines come and go; in a matter of hours, 10-20% of spines can spontaneously appear or disappear on the pyramidal cells of the cerebral cortex, although the larger \"mushroom\"-shaped spines are the most stable.\n\nSpine maintenance and plasticity is activity-dependent and activity-independent. BDNF partially determines spine levels, and low levels of AMPA receptor activity is necessary to maintain spine survival, and synaptic activity involving NMDA receptors encourages spine growth. Furthermore, two-photon laser scanning microscopy and confocal microscopy have shown that spine volume changes depending on the types of stimuli that are presented to a synapse.\n\nSpine plasticity is implicated in motivation, learning, and memory. In particular, long-term memory is mediated in part by the growth of new dendritic spines (or the enlargement of pre-existing spines) to reinforce a particular neural pathway. Because dendritic spines are plastic structures whose lifespan is influenced by input activity, spine dynamics may play an important role in the maintenance of memory over a lifetime.\n\nAge-dependent changes in the rate of spine turnover suggest that spine stability impacts developmental learning. In youth, dendritic spine turnover is relatively high and produces a net loss of spines. This high rate of spine turnover may characterize critical periods of development and reflect learning capacity in adolescence—different cortical areas exhibit differing levels of synaptic turnover during development, possibly reflecting varying critical periods for specific brain regions. In adulthood, however, most spines remain persistent, and the half-life of spines increases. This stabilization occurs due to a developmentally regulated slow-down of spine elimination, a process which may underlie the stabilization of memories in maturity.\n\nExperience-induced changes in dendritic spine stability also point to spine turnover as a mechanism involved in the maintenance of long-term memories, though it is unclear how sensory experience affects neural circuitry. Two general models might describe the impact of experience on structural plasticity. On the one hand, experience and activity may drive the discrete formation of relevant synaptic connections that store meaningful information in order to allow for learning. On the other hand, synaptic connections may be formed in excess, and experience and activity may lead to the pruning of extraneous synaptic connections.\n\nIn lab animals of all ages, environmental enrichment has been related to dendritic branching, spine density, and overall number of synapses. In addition, skill training has been shown to lead to the formation and stabilization of new spines while destabilizing old spines, suggesting that the learning of a new skill involves a rewiring process of neural circuits. Since the extent of spine remodeling correlates with success of learning, this suggests a crucial role of synaptic structural plasticity in memory formation. In addition, changes in spine stability and strengthening occur rapidly and have been observed within hours after training.\n\nConversely, while enrichment and training are related to increases in spine formation and stability, long-term sensory deprivation leads to an increase in the rate of spine elimination and therefore impacts long-term neural circuitry. Upon restoring sensory experience after deprivation in adolescence, spine elimination is accelerated, suggesting that experience plays an important role in the net loss of spines during development. In addition, other sensory deprivation paradigms—such as whisker trimming—have been shown to increase the stability of new spines.\n\nResearch in neurological diseases and injuries shed further light on the nature and importance of spine turnover. After stroke, a marked increase in structural plasticity occurs near the trauma site, and a five- to eightfold increase from control rates in spine turnover has been observed. Dendrites disintegrate and reassemble rapidly during ischemia—as with stroke, survivors showed an increase in dendritic spine turnover. While a net loss of spines is observed in Alzheimer's disease and cases of intellectual disability, cocaine and amphetamine use have been linked to increases in dendritic branching and spine density in the prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens. Because significant changes in spine density occur in various brain diseases, this suggests a balanced state of spine dynamics in normal circumstances, which may be susceptible to disequilibrium under varying pathological conditions.\n\nThere is also some evidence for loss of dendritic spines as a consequence of aging. One study using mice has noted a correlation between age-related reductions in spine densities in the hippocampus that and age-dependent declines in hippocampal learning and memory.\n\nDespite experimental findings that suggest a role for dendritic spine dynamics in mediating learning and memory, the degree of structural plasticity’s importance remains debatable. For instance, studies estimate that only a small portion of spines formed during training actually contribute to lifelong learning. In addition, the formation of new spines may not significantly contribute to the connectivity of the brain, and spine formation may not bear as much of an influence on memory retention as other properties of structural plasticity, such as the increase in size of spine heads.\n\nTheoreticians have for decades hypothesized about the potential electrical function of spines, yet our inability to examine their electrical properties has until recently stopped theoretical work from progressing too far. Recent advances in imaging techniques along with increased use of two-photon glutamate uncaging have led to a wealth of new discoveries; we now suspect that there are voltage-dependent sodium, potassium, and calcium channels in the spine heads.\n\nCable theory provides the theoretical framework behind the most \"simple\" method for modelling the flow of electrical currents along passive neural fibres. Each spine can be treated as two compartments, one representing the neck, the other representing the spine head. The compartment representing the spine head alone should carry the active properties.\n\nTo facilitate the analysis of interactions between many spines, Baer & Rinzel formulated a new cable theory for which the distribution of spines is treated as a continuum. In this representation, spine head voltage is the local spatial average of membrane potential in adjacent spines. The formulation maintains the feature that there is no direct electrical coupling between neighboring spines; voltage spread along dendrites is the only way for spines to interact.\n\nThe SDS model was intended as a computationally simple version of the full Baer and Rinzel model. It was designed to be analytically tractable and have as few free parameters as possible while retaining those of greatest significance, such as spine neck resistance. The model drops the continuum approximation and instead uses a passive dendrite coupled to excitable spines at discrete points. Membrane dynamics in the spines are modelled using integrate and fire processes. The spike events are modelled in a discrete fashion with the wave form conventionally represented as a rectangular function.\n\nCalcium transients in spines are a key trigger for synaptic plasticity. NMDA receptors, which have a high permeability for calcium, only conduct ions if the membrane potential is suffiently depolarized. The amount of calcium entering a spine during synaptic activity therefore depends on the depolarization of the spine head. Evidence from calcium imaging experiments (two-photon microscopy) and from compartmental modelling indicates that spines with high resistance necks experience larger calcium transients during synaptic activity.\n\nDendritic spines can develop directly from dendritic shafts or from dendritic filopodia. During synaptogenesis, dendrites rapidly sprout and retract filopodia, small membrane organelle-lacking membranous protrusions. Recently, I-BAR protein MIM was found to contribute to the initiation process. During the first week of birth, the brain is predominated by filopodia, which eventually develop synapses. However, after this first week, filopodia are replaced by spiny dendrites but also small, stubby spines that protrude from spiny dendrites. In the development of certain filopodia into spines, filopodia recruit presynaptic contact to the dendrite, which encourages the production of spines to handle specialized postsynaptic contact with the presynaptic protrusions.\n\nSpines, however, require maturation after formation. Immature spines have impaired signaling capabilities, and typically lack \"heads\" (or have very small heads), only necks, while matured spines maintain both heads and necks.\n\nCognitive disorders such as ADHD, autism, intellectual disability, and fragile X syndrome, may be resultant from abnormalities in dendritic spines, especially the number of spines and their maturity. The ratio of matured to immature spines is important in their signaling, as immature spines have impaired synaptic signaling. Fragile X syndrome is characterized by an overabundance of immature spines that have multiple filopodia in cortical dendrites.\n\nDendritic spines were first described at the end of the 19th century by Santiago Ramón y Cajal on cerebellar neurons. Ramón y Cajal then proposed that dendritic spines could serve as contacting sites between neurons. This was demonstrated more than 50 years later thanks to the emergence of electron microscopy. Until the development of confocal microscopy on living tissues, it was commonly admitted that spines were formed during embryonic development and then would remain stable after birth. In this paradigm, variations of synaptic weight were considered as sufficient to explain memory processes at the cellular level. But since about a decade ago, new techniques of confocal microscopy demonstrated that dendritic spines are indeed motile and dynamic structures that undergo a constant turnover, even after birth.\n\nIn 2015 study published in Cell by Jeff Lichtman lab at Harvard researchers describe automated technologies to probe the structure of neural tissue at nanometer resolution and use them to generate a saturated reconstruction of a sub-volume of mouse neocortex in which all cellular objects (axons, dendrites, and glia) and many sub-cellular components (synapses, synaptic vesicles, spines, spine apparati, postsynaptic densities, and mitochondria) are rendered and itemized in a database. By tracing the trajectories of all excitatory axons and noting their juxtapositions, both synaptic and non-synaptic, with every dendritic spine the study refutes the idea that physical proximity is sufficient to predict synaptic connectivity (the so-called Peters’ rule).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3158523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3158523", "title": "Dora Pejačević", "text": "Dora Pejačević\n\nDora Pejačević (10 September 1885 – 5 March 1923) was a Croatian composer, a member of the Pejačević noble family. She was one of the composers to introduce the orchestral song to Croatian music and her Symphony in F-sharp minor is considered by scholars to be the first modern symphony in Croatian music.\n\nDora Pejačević (in old documents also Pejacsevich) was born in Budapest, the daughter of a Croatian ban, Hungarian-Croatian Count Teodor Pejačević and Hungarian Baroness Lilla Vay de Vaya, herself a fine pianist. Her mother gave her first piano lessons. Paternally, she descended from the old Croatian noble Pejačević family, one of the most distinguished noble families in Slavonia, eastern region of Croatia.\n\nDora began to compose when she was 12. She studied music privately in Zagreb, Dresden and Munich and received lessons in instrumentation (from Dragutin Kaiser and Walter Courvoisier), composition (from Percy Sherwood) and violin (from Henri Petri in Munich). She was largely self-taught, however. She married Ottomar von Lumbe in 1921. Although Pejačević led a lonely life, she met many prominent musicians and writers, and befriended Austrian journalist and writer Karl Kraus and Czech aristocrat and patroness of arts Sidonie Nádherná von Borutín. Dora died in Munich in 1923, a result of complications following a difficult childbirth (of her son Theo), and is buried at the cemetery in Našice, Croatia.\n\nDora Pejačević is considered a major Croatian composer. She left behind a considerable catalogue of 58 opuses (106 compositions), mostly in late-Romantic style, including songs, piano works, chamber music, and several compositions for large orchestra, arguably her best. Her Symphony in F-sharp minor is considered by scholars the first modern symphony in Croatian music. Most of her music has yet to be published and released on compact disc, although concerted efforts have been made recently to rectify this situation. For example, the Croatian Music Information Centre has published some of her scores, including three of her orchestral works (Piano Concerto, Symphony, and Phantasie Concertante). In 2008, the Center also published a bilingual monograph (in English and Croatian), written by the Pejačević scholar Koraljka Kos, accompanied by a first all-Pejačević CD of piano and chamber music.\n\nHer life is the subject of a fictionalized Croatian biographical film \"Countess Dora\" (1993), directed by Zvonimir Berković and starring Alma Prica and Rade Šerbedžija.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nComplete Works for Piano\nFirst integral recording of Pejačević's works for piano, by pianist Yoko Nishii with help of PTNA (Piano Teachers' National Association of Japan). The videos are public, and as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11916844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11916844", "title": "Driftwood (horse)", "text": "Driftwood (horse)\n\nDriftwood (1932–1960) was originally known as Speedy while he was a rodeo horse. Driftwood was known for siring rodeo and ranch horses.\n\nDriftwood was registered as number 2833 with the American Quarter Horse Association (or AQHA). His stud book entry lists him as a bay horse (meaning stallion in this situation) foaled in 1932, and bred by Mr. Childress of Silverton, Texas. His owners at the time of registration were Catherine A and Chaning Peake of Lompoc, California. His breeding was mostly unknown, with only two lines traceable past the grandparents. Both of those lines traced to Lock's Rondo, however. His second dam was a Thoroughbred mare from Kentucky, although her exact breeding was unknown. His paternal grandsire, the Hobart Horse, is of unknown breeding.\n\nDriftwood made a name for himself in the late 1930s as a rodeo horse, when he was known as '\"Speedy\". He was owned by a man named Asbury Schell, who calf roped, team tied, steer roped and bulldogged off the stallion he called Speedy, as well as occasionally stock saddle races. In 1941, the Peake's tried to buy Speedy, but since Schell earned his living as a rodeo cowboy, they were only able to talk Schell into letting them breed seven mares to the stallion that spring. The next year, with World War II rationing curtailing rodeos, Schell finally sold Speedy to the Peakes for $1500. There was some confusion about the stallion's pedigree, and it took three years before the Peakes were able to track down the previous owners before Schell and find out enough of the horse's breeding to register the stallion with the AQHA, and by that time the name \"Speedy\" had already been registered, so the horse was registered as Driftwood instead.\n\nDriftwood sired two horses that earned their AQHA Race Register of Merit, as well as nine daughters that produced Race Register of Merits. He sired nineteen foals that earned a Performance Register of Merit from the AQHA, and one foal earned a year end High Point Award. Many of his offspring competed on the professional rodeo circuit, where Driftwood made a name for himself by siring more top rodeo horses than any other sire of his time. Among the outstanding rodeo horses he sired were Driftwood Ike and Firewood. Others included Poker Chip Peake and Henny Penny Peake, who won the 1953 and 1954 Pacific Coast Hackamore Championship. He died in 1960.\n\nDriftwood died in 1960 and in 2006 he was inducted into the AQHA Hall of Fame. In 2007 \"Western Horseman\" magazine chose Driftwood as number five on their list of top ten ranch horse bloodlines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2056989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2056989", "title": "Felo de se", "text": "Felo de se\n\nFelo de se, Latin for \"felon of himself\", is an archaic legal term that denotes an illegal act of suicide.\nEarly English common law considered suicide a crime and a person found guilty of it, even though dead, was subject to punishments including forfeiture of property to the monarch and being given a shameful burial. Beginning in the seventeenth century law and custom gradually changed to consider a person who committed suicide to be temporarily insane at the time and conviction and punishment were gradually phased out.\nThe term and punishments could also apply to a person killed while committing a felony.\n\nIn early English common law, an adult who killed themselves was literally a felon, and the crime was punishable by forfeiture of property to the king and what was considered a shameful burial – typically with a stake through his heart and with a burial at a crossroad. Burials for \"felo de se\" typically took place at night, with no mourners or clergy present, and the location was often kept a secret by the authorities. A child or mentally incompetent person, however, who killed himself was not considered a \"felo de se\" and was not punished post-mortem for his actions.\n\nIn the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries in England, as suicides came to be seen more and more as an act of temporary insanity, many coroner's juries began declaring more suicide victims as \"non compos mentis\" rather than \"felo de se\". This meant that the perpetrator's property was not forfeited to the crown and the family could inherit the property. MacDonald and Murphy write that \"By the 1710s and 1720s, over 90 per cent of all suicides were judged insane, and after a period of more rigorous enforcement of the law, \"non compos mentis\" became in the last three decades of the century the only suicide verdict that Norwich Coroners returned. ... \"Non compos mentis\" had become the usual verdict in cases of suicide by the last third of the century.\"\n\nThe method of interment in a public highway with a stake driven through the body persisted until 1823, when the Burial of Suicide Act 1823 (4 Geo. IV, c. 52) abolished the practice, and provided that the remains should be buried in a churchyard (with the Minister in attendance), or other authorised place. For example, a news report in 1866 concerning the suicide of Eli Sykes, a prisoner awaiting the death sentence at Armley gaol in Leeds, stated that the inquest jury returned a verdict of \"felo de se\" and \"in consequence of that verdict the body would be buried at midnight, without any religious ceremony, within the precincts of the gaol\". In the Burial Laws Amendment Act 1880, provision was made for the provision of funeral rites to be performed described as \"Christian and orderly religious service\", replacing that taken from the Book of Common Prayer, if required.\n\n\"Felo de se\" is also employed as the title of poems by \"fin de siècle\" poet Amy Levy and Georgian poet Richard Hughes. It is also the title of a book by R. Austin Freeman.\n\nThe laws relating to \"felo de se\" also applied to someone who was killed or died by other causes whilst they were committing another felony (e.g., a burglar who was killed by a householder defending his own property). \n\nIn England and Wales, the offence of \"felo de se\" was abolished by section 1 of the Suicide Act 1961.\n\nRestrictions on the burial of persons found \"felo de\" se had previously been relaxed by the Burial of Suicide Act 1823 (4 Geo 4 c 52) and by the Interments (felo de se) Act 1882.\n\nIn 2017, the Indian Parliament passed a mental healthcare bill that (among other things) decriminalized attempts to suicide.\n\nIn the 1700s, the English colonies in what is now the United States decriminalized suicide. Following the example set by the United Kingdom, state laws against suicide were gradually repealed. By the 1990s only two states prohibited suicide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25055305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25055305", "title": "FishVille", "text": "FishVille\n\nFishVille was a real-time aquarium simulation game developed by Zynga, it was available as an application on the social-networking website Facebook. The game allowed members of Facebook to manage virtual aquariums by rearing fish. As of October 2011, FishVille had 1.6 million monthly active users. The game was discontinued in December 5, 2012.\n\nWhen users begin the game, they can start by choosing a background and gravel for their aquariums. The users start with four fish already present in their tank. A tutorial then commences which takes the user through some of the basic functions of the game which include adding fish to the aquarium, feeding and selling fish. Upon selling fish, the user earns \"sand coins\" and experience points (XP). The player also earns XP and coins for completing certain tasks and helping in neighbor missions. At certain XP benchmarks, the player's level rises. As the player obtains more items and progresses through levels, fish, decorations, environments, creatures and plants become available to them via the \"store\" where items can be purchased using either sand coins or \"sand dollars\". Sand dollars are earned by leveling up, completing offers or microtransactions.\n\nFish rearing is the main activity in \"FishVille\". Players can buy fish from the store using sand dollars or sand coins. Fish can also be added into the aquarium by receiving gifts sent by neighbors and Facebook friends. Fish require to be fed as they age. Each fish has three stages of growth – Baby, Junior and Adult. Once the fish become junior or adult fish they can be sold for coins and XP. The XP and coins earned by selling the fish depends on the type of fish. If the fish are not fed, they become sick and then eventually die.\n\nPlayers can purchase up to eight additional tanks if their tanks run out of space. Recently, Zynga launched a new feature in \"FishVille\" called \"Arena Tanks\". In an Arena tank a user can place fish which are classified as arena or super arena. These fish can then be trained using \"super foods\" which help improve certain traits of the fish which include IQ, Strength, Agility and Health. The fish then can \"combat\" with other arena fish which helps the player gain XP, coins and other rewards.\n\nIn addition to fish, players can also place decorations, plants and creatures to deck out their tanks. These additional items can be purchased from the store with the in-game currency or can be acquired through the game's gifting mechanism. The \"FishVille\" store has a vast array of decorations and creatures which get unlocked and are available for purchase as the user levels up in the game.\n\nThe store also allows the user to change the environment (wallpaper) and gravel of the tank.\n\nThe \"FishVille\" store is constantly updated with new items and content. Items are also added for seasons and for special themes. Special themes when added, provide players with the opportunity to decorate the tank with items related to a particular season or theme.\n\nLike most Zynga games, \"FishVille\" incorporates the social networking aspect of Facebook into many areas of gameplay. Players may invite their friends to be their neighbors, allowing them to perform certain actions on each other's tanks per day by \"visiting\" it. Neighbors may also send gifts and other supplies like medicine to each other and complete specialized tasks together for rewards.\n\nThrough the \"FishVille\" Forums and \"FishVille\" fan page, weekly contests like \"Tank of the Week\" are held where users can provide screenshots of their tanks and can compete for prizes. Prizes often range from \"Sand Dollars\" to \"exclusive fish\".\n\nJim Squires, from GameZebo, said that the game was \"easily one of Facebook's greatest underwater adventures\" and that \"FishVille offers up a perfect blend of familiarity and freshness that any fish lover can enjoy\". Ryan Geddes, from IGN, stated that the game is an incredibly efficient advertising and microtransaction delivery tool\".\n\nSometime in November 2012, it was announced that FishVille would be discontinued on December 5, 2012 along with several other Zynga games.\n"}
{"id": "26885650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26885650", "title": "Free will in antiquity", "text": "Free will in antiquity\n\nFree will in antiquity was not discussed in the same terms as used in the modern free will debates, but historians of the problem have speculated who exactly was first to take positions as determinist, libertarian, and compatibilist in antiquity. There is wide agreement that these views were essentially fully formed over 2000 years ago. Candidates for the first thinkers to form these views, as well as the idea of a non-physical \"agent-causal\" libertarianism, include Democritus (460–370), Aristotle (384–322), Epicurus (341–270), Chrysippus (280–207), and Carneades (214–129).\n\nEarly religious accounts of man's fate explored the degree of human freedom permitted by superhuman gods. A strong fatalism is present in tales that foretell the future, based on the idea that the gods have foreknowledge of future events. Anxious not to annoy the gods, the myth-makers rarely challenged the idea that the gods' foreknowledge is compatible with human freedom.\n\nThe first thinkers to look for explanatory causes (ἀιτία) in natural phenomena (rather than gods controlling events) were the Greek Pre-Socratic philosophers (\"physiologoi\"). The reasons or rules (λόγοι) behind the physical (φύσις) world became the ideal \"laws\" governing material phenomena. Anaximander (610-546) coined the term physis (φύσις) and perhaps even the cosmological combination of cosmos (κόσμος), as organized nature, and logos (λόγος), as the law behind nature. The Greeks had a separate word for the laws (or conventions) of society, nomos (νόμος). Heraclitus (535–475) claimed that everything changes (\"you can't step twice into the same river\") but that there were laws or rules (the logos) behind all the change. The early cosmologists imagined that the universal laws were all-powerful and must therefore explain the natural causes behind all things, from the regular motions of the heavens to the mind (νοῦς) of man. These \"physiologoi\" transformed pre-philosophical arguments about gods controlling the human will into arguments about pre-existing causes controlling it.\n\nThe materialist philosophers Democritus and his mentor Leucippus were the first determinists. They claimed that all things, including humans, were made of atoms in a void, with individual atomic motions strictly controlled by causal laws. Democritus said:\n\nDemocritus wanted to wrest control of man's fate from arbitrary gods and make us more responsible for our actions. But ironically, he and Leucippus originated two of the great dogmas of determinism, physical determinism and logical necessity, which lead directly to the traditional and modern problem of free will and determinism.\n\nLeucippus dogmatically declared an absolute necessity which left no room in the cosmos for chance.\n\nThe consequence is a world with but one possible future, completely determined by its past.\n\nIn Plato's Gorgias (and in the Protagoras 345c4-e6), Socrates argues that no one does wrong willingly, one of the most famous doctrines to be associated with him. When framed in modern (Western) terms, the implication is that it is ignorance, rather that free individual agency, that is responsible for morally wrong actions.\n\nMichael Frede typifies the prevailing view of recent scholarship, namely that Aristotle did not have a notion of free-will.\n\nAristotle elaborated the four possible causes (material, efficient, formal, and final). Aristotle's word for these causes was ἀιτία, which translates as causes in the sense of the multiple factors responsible for an event. Aristotle did not subscribe to the simplistic \"every event has a (single) cause\" idea that was to come later.\nThen, in his \"Physics\" and \"Metaphysics\", Aristotle also said there were \"accidents\" caused by \"chance (τυχή)\". In his \"Physics\", he noted that the early physicists had found no place for chance among their causes.\n\nAristotle opposed his accidental chance to necessity:\n\nTracing any particular sequence of events back in time will usually come to an accidental event – a \"starting point\" or \"fresh start\" (Aristotle calls it an origin or arche (ἀρχή) – whose major contributing cause (or causes) was itself uncaused.\n\nWhether a particular thing happens, says Aristotle, may depend on a series of causes that\n\nIn general, many such causal sequences contribute to any event, including human decisions. Each sequence has a different time of origin, some going back before we were born, some originating during our deliberations. Beyond causal sequences that are the result of chance or necessity, Aristotle felt that some breaks in the causal chain allow us to feel our actions \"depend on us\" (ἐφ' ἡμῖν). These are the causal chains that originate within us (ἐv ἡμῖν).\n\nRichard Sorabji's 1980 \"Necessity, Cause, and Blame\" surveyed Aristotle's positions on causation and necessity, comparing them to his predecessors and successors, especially the Stoics and Epicurus. Sorabji argues that Aristotle was an indeterminist, that real chance and uncaused events exist, but never that human actions are uncaused in the extreme libertarian sense that some commentators mistakenly attribute to Epicurus.\n\nAristotle accepted the past as fixed, in the sense that past events were irrevocable. But future events cannot be necessitated by claims about the present truth value of statements about the future. Aristotle does not deny the excluded middle (either p or not p), only that the truth value of p does not exist yet. Indeed, although the past is fixed, the truth value of past statements about the future can be changed by the outcome of future events. This is the problem of future contingents.\n\nAlthough he thinks Aristotle was not aware of the \"problem\" of free will vis-a-vis determinism (as first described by Epicurus), Sorabji thinks Aristotle's position on the question is clear enough. Voluntariness is too important to fall before theoretical arguments about necessity and determinism.\n\nIt is with Epicurus and the Stoics that clearly indeterministic and deterministic positions are first formulated. Writing one generation after Aristotle, Epicurus argued that as atoms moved through the void, there were occasions when they would \"swerve\" (\"clinamen\") from their otherwise determined paths, thus initiating new causal chains. Epicurus argued that these swerves would allow us to be more responsible for our actions (\"libertarianism\"), something impossible if every action was deterministically caused.\n\nEpicurus did not say the swerve was directly involved in decisions. But following Aristotle, Epicurus thought human agents have the autonomous ability to transcend necessity and chance (both of which destroy responsibility), so that praise and blame are appropriate. Epicurus finds a \"tertium quid\", beyond necessity (Democritus' physics) and beyond chance. His \"tertium quid\" is agent autonomy, what is \"up to us\".\n\nLucretius (1st century BCE), a strong supporter of Epicurus, saw the randomness as enabling free will, even if he could not explain exactly how, beyond the fact that random swerves would break the causal chain of determinism.\n\nIn 1967, Pamela Huby suggested that Epicurus was the original discoverer of the \"freewill problem\". Huby noted that there had been two main free will problems, corresponding to different determinisms, namely theological determinism (predestination and foreknowledge) and the physical causal determinism of Democritus.\nIt is unfortunate that our knowledge of the early history of the Stoics is so fragmentary, and that we have no agreed account of the relations between them and Epicurus. On the evidence we have, however, it seems to me more probable that Epicurus was the originator of the freewill controversy, and that it was only taken up with enthusiasm among the Stoics by Chrysippus, the third head of the school.\n\nIn 2000 Susanne Bobzien challenged Pamela Huby's 1967 assertion that Epicurus discovered the \"free will problem\".\n\nBobzien thinks Epicurus did not have a model of what she calls \"two-sided freedom,\" because she believes that Epicurus\n\n\"assumed...a gap in the causal chain immediately before, or simultaneously with, the decision or choice, a gap which allows the coming into being of a spontaneous motion. In this way every human decision or choice is directly linked with causal indeterminism...To avoid misunderstandings, I should stress that I do believe that Epicurus was an indeterminist of sorts – only that he did not advocate indeterminist free decision or indeterminist free choice.\nA. A. Long and D. N. Sedley, however, agree with Pamela Huby that Epicurus was the first to notice the modern problem of free will and determinism.\n\nEpicurus' problem is this: if it has been necessary all along that we should act as we do, it cannot be up to us, with the result that we would not be morally responsible for our actions at all. Thus posing the problem of determinism he becomes arguably the first philosopher to recognize the philosophical centrality of what we know as the Free Will Question. His strongly libertarian approach to it can be usefully contrasted with the Stoics' acceptance of determinism.\n\nThe question remains how random swerves can help to explain free action. In her 1992 book, \"The Hellenistic Philosophy of Mind\", Julia Annas wrote:\n\nOne view, going back to the 19th century historian Carlo Giussani, is that Epicurus' atomic swerves are involved directly in every case of human free action, not just somewhere in the past that breaks the causal chain of determinism. In 1928 Cyril Bailey agreed with Giussani that the atoms of the mind-soul provide a break in the continuity of atomic motions, otherwise actions would be necessitated. Bailey imagined complexes of mind-atoms that work together to form a consciousness that is not determined, but also not susceptible to the pure randomness of individual atomic swerves, something that could constitute Epicurus' idea of actions being \"up to us\" (πὰρ' ἡμάς). Bailey states that Epicurus did not \"identify\" freedom of the will with chance.\n\nIt may be that [Giussani's] account presses the Epicurean doctrine slightly beyond the point to which the master had thought it out for himself, but it is a direct deduction from undoubted Epicurean conceptions and is a satisfactory explanation of what Epicurus meant: that he should have thought that the freedom of the will was chance, and fought hard to maintain it as chance and no more, is inconceivable.\nIn 1967 David Furley de-emphasized the importance of the swerve in both Epicurus and Lucretius so as to defend Epicurus from the \"extreme\" libertarian view that our actions are caused directly by random swerves. (Bailey had also denied this \"traditional interpretation\".) Furley argues for a strong connection between the ideas of Aristotle and Epicurus on autonomous actions that are \"up to us\".\n\nThe swerve, then, plays a purely negative part in Epicurean psychology. It saves \"voluntas\" from necessity, as Lucretius says it does, but it does not feature in every act of \"voluntas\".\nOn the other hand, in his 1983 thesis, \"Lucretius on the Clinamen and 'Free Will'\", Don Paul Fowler defended the ancient claim that Epicurus proposed random swerves as directly causing our actions.\n\nI turn to the overall interpretation. Lucretius is arguing from the existence of \"voluntas\" to the existence of the \"clinamen\"; nothing comes to be out of nothing, therefore \"voluntas\" must have a cause at the atomic level, viz. the \"clinamen\". The most natural interpretation of this is that every act of \"voluntas\" is caused by a swerve in the atoms of the animal's mind...There is a close causal, physical relationship between the macroscopic and the atomic. Furley, however, argued that the relationship between \"voluntas\" and the \"clinamen\" was very different; not every act of volition was accompanied by a swerve in the soul-atoms, but the \"clinamen\" was only an occasional event which broke the chain of causation between the σύστασις of our mind at birth and the 'engendered' state (τὸ ἀπογεγεννημένον) which determines our actions.Its role in Epicureanism is\nmerely to make a formal break with physical determinism, and it has no real effect on the outcome of particular actions. (p. 338).\n\nIn a 1999 \"Phronesis\" article, Purinton agreed with Fowler that random swerves directly cause volitions and actions:\"since they do not make volition itself a fresh start of motion, and Sedley's view does not do justice to his atomism...It seems to me, therefore, that there is no good reason to reject the thesis that Epicurus held that swerves cause volitions from the bottom up. And there are a number of good reasons to accept it.\"\n\nIt was the Stoic school of philosophy that solidified the idea of natural laws controlling all things, including the mind. Zeno of Citium, the original founder of Stoicism, had a simple but powerful idea of the causal chain compared to Aristotle. Zeno said that every event has a cause, and that cause necessitates the event. Given exactly the same circumstances, exactly the same result will occur.\n\nThe major developer of Stoicism, Chrysippus, took the edge off strict necessity. Like Democritus, Aristotle, and Epicurus before him, he wanted to strengthen the argument for moral responsibility, in particular defending it from Aristotle's and Epicurus' indeterminate chance causes.\n\nWhereas the past is unchangeable, Chrysippus argued that some future events that are possible do not occur by necessity from past external factors alone, but might (as Aristotle and Epicurus maintained) depend on us. We have a choice to assent or not to assent to an action. Chrysippus said our actions are determined (in part by ourselves as causes) and fated (because of God's foreknowledge), but he also said that they are not necessitated, i.e., pre-determined from the distant past. Chrysippus would be seen today as a compatibilist.\n\nR. W. Sharples describes the first compatibilist arguments to reconcile responsibility and determinism by Chrysippus\n\nThe Stoic position, given definitive expression by Chrysippus (c. 280–207 BC), the third head of the school, represents not the opposite extreme from that of Epicurus but an attempt to compromise, to combine determinism and responsibility. Their theory of the universe is indeed a completely deterministic one; everything is governed by fate, identified with the sequence of causes; nothing could happen otherwise than it does, and in any given set of circumstances one and only one result can follow – otherwise an uncaused motion would occur.\n\nChrysippus was concerned to preserve human responsibility in the context of his determinist system. His position was thus one of 'soft determinism', as opposed on the one hand to that of the 'hard determinist' who claims that determinism excludes responsibility, and on the other to that of the libertarian who agrees on the incompatibility but responsibility by determinism. The Greek to eph' hemin (ἐφ΄ ἡμῖν), 'what depends on us', like the English 'responsibility', was used both by libertarians and by soft determinists, though they differed as to what it involved; thus he occurrence of the expression is not a safe guide to the type of position involved. The situation is complicated by the fact that the debate is in Greek philosophy conducted entirely in terms of responsibility (to eph' hemin) rather than of freedom or free will; nevertheless it can be shown that some thinkers, Alexander among them, have a libertarian rather than a soft-determinist conception of responsibility, and in such cases I have not hesitated to use expressions like 'freedom'.\nAlexander of Aphrodisias (c. 150–210), the most famous ancient commentator on Aristotle, wrote in the age of Stoics, Epicureans, and Skeptics. He defended a view of moral responsibility we would call libertarianism today. Greek philosophy had no precise term for \"free will\" as did Latin (\"liberum arbitrium\" or \"libera voluntas\"). The discussion was in terms of responsibility, what \"depends on us\" (in Greek ἐφ ἡμῖν).\n\nAlexander believed that Aristotle was not a strict determinist like the Stoics, and Alexander himself argued that some events do not have pre-determined causes. In particular, man is responsible for self-caused decisions, and can choose to do or not to do something, as Chrysippus argued. However, Alexander denied the foreknowledge of events that was part of the Stoic identification of God and Nature.\n\nR. W. Sharples described Alexander's \"De Fato\" as perhaps the most comprehensive treatment surviving from classical antiquity of the problem of responsibility (τὸ ἐφ’ ἡμίν) and determinism. It especially shed a great deal of light on Aristotle's position on free will and on the Stoic attempt to make responsibility compatible with determinism.\n\n"}
{"id": "3626951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3626951", "title": "Grounding (discipline technique)", "text": "Grounding (discipline technique)\n\nGrounding is a common discipline technique used with children and teenagers, in which the child or teen is not allowed to leave their place of residence \"or\" bedroom except for required activities such as school or work. Children and teenagers are generally not allowed to leave the house for leisure during this time.\n\nOther possible consequences can also include removing positive reinforcements, privileges and freedom such as video games, toys, television, computers, mobile devices, Internet, fidget spinners, shopping malls and hanging out with or having friends over. \n\nGrounding has been suggested as an alternative to physical discipline or spanking for behavior management in the home. According to a 2000 review on child outcomes, \"Grounding has been replicated as a more effective disciplinary alternative than spanking with teenagers.\" Grounding can backfire if the type and duration of restrictions are too severe relative to the behavior meant to be corrected, or if the restrictions are too difficult for the parent to enforce.\n\nThis term was used originally in aviation: when a pilot is prevented from flying an aircraft due to misconduct, illness, technical problems with the aircraft, or other reasons, the pilot is \"grounded\".\n"}
{"id": "1969514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1969514", "title": "Guy Banister", "text": "Guy Banister\n\nWilliam Guy Banister (March 7, 1901 – June 6, 1964) was an employee of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, an Assistant Superintendent of the New Orleans Police Department, and a private investigator. After his death, he gained notoriety from allegations made by New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison that he had been involved in the assassination of John F. Kennedy.\n\nHe was an avid anti-communist, alleged member of the Minutemen, the John Birch Society, Louisiana Committee on Un-American Activities, and alleged publisher of the \"Louisiana Intelligence Digest\". He also supported various anti-Castro groups in the New Orleans area: \"Cuban Democratic Revolutionary Front\"; \"Anti-Communist League of the Caribbean\"; \"Friends of Democratic Cuba\". According to the \"New Orleans States-Item\" newspaper, \"Guy [Banister] participated in every anti-Communist South and Central American revolution that came along, acting as a key liaison man for the U.S. government-sponsored anti-Communist activities in Latin America.\"\n\nBanister was born in Monroe, Louisiana, the oldest of seven children. After studying at the Louisiana State University, he joined the Monroe Police Department.\n\nIn 1934, Banister joined the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He was present at the killing of John Dillinger. Originally based in Indianapolis, he later moved to New York City where he was involved in the investigation of the American Communist Party. FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover was impressed by Banister's work and, in 1938, he was promoted to run the FBI unit in Butte, Montana. He also served in Oklahoma City, Minneapolis and Chicago. In Chicago, he was the Special Agent in Charge for the FBI. He retired from the FBI in 1954.\n\nBanister moved to Louisiana and, in January 1955, became Assistant Superintendent of the New Orleans Police Department, where he was given the task of investigating organized crime and corruption within the police force. It later emerged that he was also involved in looking at the role that left-wing political activists were playing in the struggle for civil rights in New Orleans. On the campuses of Tulane University and Louisiana State University, he ran a network of informants collecting information on \"communist\" activities. He submitted reports on his findings to the FBI through contacts.\n\nIn March 1957, Banister was suspended after pulling a gun in public in a bar and threatening a waiter. His suspension ended in June of that year. However, when he refused to be transferred to the N.O.P.D.'s Planning Department, he was dismissed from the force.\n\nAfter leaving the New Orleans Police Department, Banister established his own private detective agency, Guy Banister Associates, Inc. at 434 Balter Building. In June 1960, Banister moved his office to 531 Lafayette Street on the ground floor of the Newman Building. Around the corner but located in the same building, with a different entrance, was the address 544 Camp Street, which would later be found stamped on Fair Play for Cuba Committee leaflets distributed by Lee Harvey Oswald, the suspected assassin of President John F. Kennedy. The Newman Building housed militant anti-Castro groups, including the Cuban Revolutionary Council (October 1961 to February 1962), as well as Sergio Arcacha Smith's Crusade to Free Cuba Committee. Banister's office was within walking distance of the New Orleans offices of the FBI, CIA, Office of Naval Intelligence and the Reily Coffee Company (Lee Harvey Oswald's employer and a supporter of anti-Castro Cubans).\n\nBanister was implicated in a 1961 raid on a munitions depot in Houma, Louisiana, in which \"various weapons, grenades and ammunition were stolen ... which were reportedly seen stacked in Banister's back room by several witnesses.\" The \"New Orleans States-Item\" newspaper reported an allegation that Banister served as a munitions supplier for the 1961 Bay of Pigs Invasion and continued to deal weapons from his office until 1963.\n\nIn 1962, Banister allegedly dispatched an associate, Maurice Brooks Gatlin — legal counsel of Banister's \"Anti-Communist League of the Caribbean\" — to Paris to deliver a suitcase containing $200,000 for the French OAS. In 1963, Banister and anti-Castro activist David Ferrie began working for a lawyer named G. Wray Gill and his client, New Orleans Mafia boss Carlos Marcello. This involved attempts to block Marcello's deportation to Guatemala.\n\nIn early 1962, Banister assisted David Ferrie in a dispute with Eastern Airlines regarding charges brought [against Ferrie] by the airline and New Orleans police of \"crimes against nature and extortion.\" During this period, Ferrie was frequently seen at Banister's office. Banister served as a character witness for Ferrie at his airline pilot's grievance board hearing in the summer of 1963.\n\nOn the afternoon of November 22, 1963, the day that President John F. Kennedy was assassinated, Banister and one of his investigators, Jack Martin, were drinking together at the Katzenjammer Bar, located next door to 544 Camp Street in New Orleans. On their return to Banister's office, the two men got into a dispute. Banister believed that Martin had stolen some files and drew his .357 Magnum revolver, striking Martin with it several times. During the altercation Martin yelled: \"What are you going to do — kill me like you all did Kennedy?\" Martin was badly injured and treated at Charity Hospital.\n\nOver the next few days, Martin told authorities and reporters that anti-Castro activist David Ferrie had been involved in the assassination. He claimed that Ferrie knew Oswald from their days in the New Orleans Civil Air Patrol, and that Ferrie might have taught Oswald how to use a rifle with a telescopic sight. Martin also claimed that Ferrie drove to Texas on the day of Kennedy's assassination, to serve as a getaway pilot for the assassins.\n\nWitnesses interviewed by the House Select Committee on Assassinations indicate Banister was \"aware of Oswald and his Fair Play for Cuba Committee before the assassination.\"\n\nBanister's secretary, Delphine Roberts, told author Anthony Summers that Oswald \"seemed to be on familiar terms with Banister and with [Banister's] office.\" Roberts said, \"As I understood it, he had the use of an office on the second floor, above the main office where we worked. Then, several times, Mr. Banister brought me upstairs, and in the office above I saw various writings stuck up on the wall pertaining to Cuba. There were various leaflets up there pertaining to Fair Play for Cuba.'\" The House Select Committee on Assassinations investigated Roberts' claims and said that \"the reliability of her statements could not be determined.\"\n\nThe alleged activities of Banister, Ferrie and Oswald reached New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison who, by late 1966, had become very interested in the New Orleans aspects of the assassination. In December 1966, Garrison interviewed Martin about these activities. Martin claimed that Banister, Ferrie and a group of anti-Castro Cuban exiles were involved in operations against Castro's Cuba that included gun running and burglarized armories.\n\nAs Garrison continued his investigation, he became convinced that a group of right-wing activists, including Banister, Ferrie and Clay Shaw, were involved in a conspiracy with elements of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to kill Kennedy. Garrison would later claim that the motive for the assassination was anger over Kennedy's attempts to obtain a peace settlement in both Cuba and Vietnam. Garrison also believed that Banister, Shaw, and Ferrie had conspired to set up Oswald as a patsy in the JFK assassination.\n\nAn April 2018 release of federal documents related to the assassination included a file concerning one Private First Class Eugene Dinkin, a cryptographic code operator stationed in Metz, France in November 1963. Three weeks before the assassination, he intercepted and decoded two messages concerning an upcoming assassination of the US President. The messages contained three names connected to the assassination conspiracy: William Harvey, Jean Souetre, and Guy Banister. Harvey was a CIA officer associated with efforts to overthrow Fidel Castro, then stationed in Rome, Italy. Jean Souetre was a French paramilitary operative with the French security service SDECE, who traveled to Washington DC to meet with James Jesus Angleton, officially for co-ordinating counterintelligence operations, and ended up in Dallas on November 22nd. In the case of Banister, the information is significant because it substantiates his direct role in planning the assassination. Dinkin's efforts to relay his information outside of his chain of command led to his arrest and confinement at the Walter Reed Army Hospital through the first half of 1964. He was not consulted by the Warren Commission.\n\nBanister's publication, the \"Louisiana Intelligence Digest\", maintained that the civil rights movement was part of an international communist conspiracy and was treasonous.\n\nBanister died of coronary thrombosis on June 6, 1964. Banister's files went to various people after his death. Later, New Orleans Assistant District Attorney Andrew Sciambra interviewed Banister's widow. She told him that she saw some Fair Play for Cuba leaflets in Banister's office when she went there after his death.\n\nBanister also is a character in Oliver Stone's 1991 movie \"JFK\", in which he is portrayed by Edward Asner. He is also central to the plot of Don DeLillo's novel \"Libra\". Guy Banister appears as a character in James Ellroy's 1995 novel \"American Tabloid\" and its sequel \"The Cold Six Thousand\". In \"American Tabloid\", Banister organizes John Kennedy's assassination, which is based on Ward Littell's original plan. Littell is one of the story's main characters. In \"The Cold Six Thousand\", Guy Banister is murdered by Chuck Rogers under orders from Carlos Marcello.\n\n"}
{"id": "48060075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48060075", "title": "Gyroporella", "text": "Gyroporella\n\nGyroporella is an extinct genus of green algae in the family Triploporellaceae.\n\nThis genus is known in the fossil record from the Permian to the Triassic (from about 272.5 to 205.6 million years ago). Fossils of species within this genus have been found in Europe, Iran, Afghanistan, China, Malaysia and Tunisia.\n"}
{"id": "5831027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5831027", "title": "Henner Henkel", "text": "Henner Henkel\n\nHeinrich Ernst Otto \"Henner\" Henkel (; 9 October 1915 – 13 January 1943) was a German tennis player during the 1930s. His biggest success was his singles title at the 1937 French Championships.\n\nHenner was born in 1915 the son of Ferdinand and Margarete Henkel. After World War I, his family moved to Erfurt in 1919. He joined the \"Sportclub Erfurt\" (today \"TC Erfurt 93\") together with his elder brother Ferdinand and learned to play tennis. His father moved to Berlin for job-related reasons, and his entire family followed in 1927.\n\nIn 1929, Henkel won the club championships of the \"THC 99 Berlin\". In 1932 and 1933, he won the German junior championships.\n\nHenkel was the second German, after Gottfried von Cramm in 1936, to win the singles title at the French Championships in 1937. The same year, he and Gottfried von Cramm won the Roland Garros doubles title. Later that year they also won the US Championships doubles title defeating Americans Don Budge and Gene Mako in three straight sets.\n\nIn March 1937 he became the singles champion at the Cairo International Championships defeating Giorgio de Stefani in the final in straight sets and also won the doubles title partnering Von Cramm. Later that year he won the singles title at the German Championships after a five-sets victory in the final over Vivian McGrath. Two years later, in 1939, he again won the title after defeating Roderich Menzel in the final in four sets.\n\nBetween 1934 and 1939 Henkel played 66 matches for the German Davis Cup team in 27 ties. He won 49 matches, lost 17 and was particularly successful in doubles, winning 16 of 20 matches partnering Gottfried von Cramm, Georg von Metaxa and Roderich Menzel.\n\nHenkel played his last tournament at Bad Pyrmont in the summer of 1942. He reached the final which he lost to Roderich Menzel. During the tournament, he had already received his draft notice. In the Battle of Stalingrad, Henkel was shot into the upper leg. He died of this injury on 13 January 1943 near Voronezh.\n\nSince 1950 the German junior team championship has been called the \"Große Henner Henkel-Spiele\" and since 1963 a commemorative tournament, \"Henner-Henkel-Gedächtnisturnier\", has been held in Erfurt.\n\n"}
{"id": "4567880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4567880", "title": "Holbrook Blinn", "text": "Holbrook Blinn\n\nHolbrook Blinn (January 23, 1872 – June 24, 1928) was an American stage and film actor.\n\nBlinn was born in San Francisco. His father was Charles H. Blinn, a Civil War veteran and his mother Nellie Hollbrook was an actress. He appeared on the legitimate stage as a child, and played throughout the United States and in London. He appeared in silent films, and was the director of popular one-act plays at New York's Princess Theatre.\n\nIn 1900, he appeared in London in \"Ib and Little Christina\". His Broadway stage successes include \"The Duchess of Dantzic\" (1903, as Napoleon), \"Salvation Nell\" (1908) in a breakout performance as the brutish husband of Mrs. Fiske, \"Within the Law\" (1912), \"Molière\" (1919), \"A Woman of No Importance\" (1916), \"The Lady of the Camellias\" (1917), and \"Getting Together\" (1918). \n\nSome of his finest silent screen accomplishments are in \"McTeague\" (1916), \"The Bad Man\" (1923), \"Rosita\" (1923), \"Yolanda\" (1924), and \"Janice Meredith\" (1924), the latter two films both starring Marion Davies.\n\nBlinn died from complications of a fall off his horse near Journey's End, his Croton-on-Hudson, New York home, and is buried in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in Sleepy Hollow, New York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29737261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29737261", "title": "Howard Abbott", "text": "Howard Abbott\n\nHoward T. Abbott (February 11, 1867 – October 5, 1939) was an American football player, lawyer and judge. He played college football and was the starting quarterback for both the University of Minnesota in 1886 and the University of Michigan in 1889. He was also the captain of the first Minnesota Golden Gophers football team in 1886. He was a lawyer in Duluth, Minnesota, starting in 1891 and later became a judge.\n\nAbbott was born in Washington, D.C. in 1867, the son of Asa T. and Fannie B. (Cross) Abbott. Starting at age eight, Abbott attended Army schools, as his father was serving in the military. In 1879, he moved with his family to Minneapolis, Minnesota, where he attended public schools.\n\nIn 1886, Abbott enrolled at the University of Minnesota where he studied for three years. While he was a student at Minnesota, he was the captain and quarterback of the first Minnesota Golden Gophers football team in 1886.\n\nIn 1889, Abbott enrolled at the University of Michigan as a law student. While studying law, he was the starting quarterback for the 1889 Michigan Wolverines football team. The 1889 team led by Abbott finished with a 1–2 record and was outscored 76–0 by Cornell and the Chicago University Club. He was also a reserve quarterback on the 1890 team.\n\nAfter receiving a Bachelor of Laws degree in 1890, Abbott moved to Duluth, Minnesota, where he began practicing law in 1891. In November 1895, he married Gertrude P. Markell, and they had two children. He was a member of the firm of Abbott, McPherran, Lewis and Gilbert. He later served as a judge. In 1935, Judge Abbott was honored as a pioneer of Gopher sports in a reunion held at the Minnesota Union on the 50th anniversary of the first football team.\n\nIn October 1939, Abbott died at Rochester, Minnesota from coronary thrombosis. He had come to the Mayo Clinic three weeks earlier and died at Worrell Hospital.\n"}
{"id": "10403938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10403938", "title": "Johannes Lohs", "text": "Johannes Lohs\n\nJohannes Lohs (24 June 1889 – 14 August 1918) was a successful and highly decorated German U-boat commander in the Kaiserliche Marine during World War I.\n\nIn his time as commander of and he succeeded in sinking several ships for a total tonnage of approximately .\n\nLohs was born on 24 June 1889 at Bad Einsiedel, Saxony. He was the son of plant owner Oswald Lohs. He first went to school in his home village and later to a grammar school in Chemnitz.\n\nLohs entered on 1 April 1909 as midshipman the Imperial Navy, completed his basic training at the Großer Kreuzer and then came for further training to the naval Academy, where he was appointed on April 12, 1910 to Fähnrich zur See. On November 3, 1911 he was transferred to the light cruiser and promoted on 19 September 1912 to Leutnant zur See. From 23 December 1912 Lohs acted as a signal officer on the light cruiser .\n\nOn 2 May 1915 Lohs was promoted to Oberleutnant zur See. For one month Lohs was second radio officer on the battlecruiser , then he moved to U-Bootschule for two months. Afterwards he became a monitoring officher at the torpedo boat division. On 6 December he became commander of , on which he did 9 patrols along the British coast. On 2 January 1918 he became Commanding officer of , taking over the command of this boat from another legendary U-boat commander, Otto Steinbrinck. \"Lohs\" had also some very good ideas on U-boat warfare and new tactics and on 24 April 1918 he received postum the Pour le Mérite.\n\nOn 3 August 1918 he sailed from Zeebrugge for the last time. The last contact he made with the base was on the evening of 14 August as \"UB-57\" was homeward bound roughly in the area of the Sandiette Bank, east of the Strait of Dover. Nothing more was heard. Lohs and 33 men lost their lives.\"UB-57\" is believed to have run onto a mine. Lohs' body washed up on shore a week later and he is buried in the military cemetery at Vlissingen.\nLohs succeeded on 13 patrols to sink an enemy tonnage of over . In the later Kriegsmarine the 3rd U-boat Flotilla in Kiel was named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "28902243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28902243", "title": "Kara Ahmed Pasha", "text": "Kara Ahmed Pasha\n\nKara Ahmed Pasha (executed 29 September 1555) was an Ottoman statesman of Albanian origin. He was Grand Vizier of the Ottoman Empire between 1553 and 1555.\n\nHe led the Ottoman troops that captured the Hungarian fortress of Temesvár, defended by the troop of István Losonczy, on 26 July 1552. That year, his army took three other castles (Veszprém, Szolnok and Lipova) before failing at the Siege of Eger.\n\nAfter Sultan Suleiman executed his eldest son Şehzade Mustafa in October 1553, there appeared some sort of dissatisfaction and unrest among soldiers who blamed Rüstem Pasha for Mustafa's death. Then Suleiman dismissed Rüstem Pasha and appointed Kara Ahmed Pasha as his Grand Vizier in October 1553. But almost two years later, Kara Ahmed was strangled by Suleiman's order in September 1555. It is said that the reason for the execution was due to political manoeuvrings of Suleiman's legal wife Hürrem Sultan, who wanted her son-in-law Rüstem to become the Grand Vizier again. After the death of Kara Ahmed, Rüstem Pasha became the Grand Vizier (1555–1561) once more.\n\nIn the TV series \"Muhteşem Yüzyıl\", Kara Ahmed Pasha is played by Turkish actor Yetkin Dikinciler.\n\n"}
{"id": "8578067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8578067", "title": "Ladislao Mazurkiewicz", "text": "Ladislao Mazurkiewicz\n\nLadislao Mazurkiewicz Iglesias (; 14 February 1945 – 2 January 2013) was a Uruguayan football goalkeeper of the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nMazurkiewicz helped the Uruguay national team qualify for the semifinals of the 1970 World Cup, where the \"charrúas\" were stopped by the eventual champion, Brazil. He was elected the best goalkeeper of that tournament. He also played for the Brazilian side Atlético Mineiro.\n\nDuring his international career (1965–74), he earned a total of 36 appearances with the national team of his native Uruguay. He coached Peñarol from 1988–89.\n\nMazurkiewicz's father was Polish and his mother Spanish. Though of Polish ancestry, he did not know Polish and never visited Poland.\n\nMazurkiewicz died on 2 January 2013 in Montevideo, Uruguay, aged 67, from undisclosed causes. He is buried at Parque del Recuerdo cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "28852435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28852435", "title": "List of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles alien races", "text": "List of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles alien races\n\nThis is a list of alien races from \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\".\n\nThe Antarians hate violence and appear in the \"Invasion of the Turtle Snatchers\" episode of the 1987 cartoon, when a family from a planet orbiting Antares travels to the Earth.\nThe family members are named Klaatu, Barada, & Nikto (a nod to the famous phrase from The Day the Earth Stood Still).\n\nThe Federation or The Human Federation is a militant civilization led by humans (aliens that resembled humans in the 2003 animated series) whose galactic empire spans many planets. Despite sharing the same species name and appearance, the Federation's connection with Earth is unknown, as many Federation humans have no knowledge of Earth. in the original Mirage comics and the 2003 animated series they are the arch-foes of the Triceraton Republic under Prime Leader Zanramon, with General Blanque leading them in the conflict. Their attempts to destroy their enemies led them to pursue Professor Honeycutt, a former Federation scientist whose mind was transferred into a robotic body due to an accident. The Federation attempted to exploit Honeycutt's Teleportal invention, but were thwarted by the attempts of the Triceratons to do likewise and the unexpected arrival of the Turtles. They later pursued Honeycutt and the Triceratons to Earth in an effort to capture Honeycutt, only for a virus created by the Professor to render their fleet helpless. Aid from the reorganized Triceraton Republic led to peace between the two factions.\n\nThe Kraang are a species of aliens that appear in the 2012 TV series, which are an homage to both Krang and the Utroms. Like the Utroms, they can have human disguises, however, they are all identical. They are one of the main antagonists of the series.\n\nThe Kraang's voices are provided by Nolan North, with at least one female Kraangdroid design voiced by Cassandra Peterson. Not unlike the Utroms in the Mirage comics and 2003 TV Series, they are portrayed as a race of brain-shaped aliens from Dimension X that pilot robotic bodies who were responsible for bringing the mutagen that was responsible for the Turtle's mutations to Earth. Their history became intertwined with the Turtles when they caught Splinter spying on them and attacked him while he was holding the not-yet-mutated Turtles, causing them to mutate when one of the Kraang accidentally dropped a mutagen canister on them.\n\nWhen the mutated turtles went to the surface world 15 years later in \"Rise of the Turtles,\" they came face-to-face again with the Kraang when they were about to kidnap April O'Neil and her psychologist father, Kirby, with the help of their getaway driver, Snake. After a failed attempt due to a lack of chemistry, the Turtles invaded the Kraang base, mutated Snake into a 12 ft. regenerating mutant ivy weed dubbed \"Snakeweed\" by Michelangelo, and rescued April, but failed to save her father.\n\nIn \"Monkey Brains,\" the Kraang were mentioned to have assigned Dr. Victor Falco to create a neuro-chemical involving mutagen and chimpanzee DNA. As a despicable measure, Falco tested the chemical on his colleague Dr. Tyler Rockwell, mutating him into a humanoid mutant chimpanzee that can read emotions, but the Turtles stopped him from extracting it.\n\nIn \"The Gauntlet,\" the Kraang have planted a mutagen bomb on the roof Wolf Hotel, but the Turtles were secretly warned about this plot through a message from the still-imprisoned Kirby O'Neil meant for April that was delivered by Pete the Pigeon. While trying to free Kirby, they learned from him that the Kraang have been abducting scientists so that they can help modify the mutagen's properties. Since the physical laws of Dimension X are different, the mutagen has different effects in this dimension. The bomb was defused by the Turtles during their fight at the hotel with both the Kraang and the Foot Clan.\n\nIn \"It Came from the Depths,\" it was revealed that the Kraang travel between Dimension X and Earth using a portal in their headquarters that's power cell was stolen by Leatherhead six months prior. When the came to him demanding the cell's current hiding place, he entrusted it to the Turtles and dealt with the Kraang to buy them time to escape.\n\nIn \"The Alien Agenda,\" the Kraang established the World Wide Genome Project as a front to collect the DNA of every animal and plant species on Earth. This was project was destroyed when Karai helped the Turtles with disgracing the DNA collection by creating a composite monster that Michelangelo named Justin.\n\nIn \"The Pulverizer,\" the Kraang reclaimed the power cell that Leatherhead stole from them.\n\nIn \"TCRI,\" it was revealed that the Kraang have their headquarters in the higher parts of the TCRI building and that they can only survive in poisonous gas. While inside the TCRI building, the Turtles discover the Kraang's invasion plan: To mutate the whole planet so that their kind can live here, which will wipe out everyone else in the process. The Kraang even brought Traag from Dimension X to attack the Turtles until it was dragged back into Dimension X by Leatherhead. When the Turtles got away when their explosives were unable to destroy the Kraang's portal, Michelangelo managed to obtain a Kraang data storage device which revealed that since Kirby is a psychologist, his area of expertise had nothing to do with the mutagen's modification: the Kraang intended target was actually April.\n\nIn \"Cockroach Terminator,\" the Kraang stole a special lens as part of a plot to use their laser drill to burrow to the Earth's core as part of the Kraang's invasion plan. This plot was thwarted by Raphael while he was overcoming his fear of cockroaches.\n\nIn \"Enemy of My Enemy,\" two Kraang operatives piloted a spacecraft as a means of hunting the Turtles up to the point where they ended up crashing a weapons trade involving the Shredder. This spacecraft was eventually repelled by Leonardo and one of the pilots was captured by Shredder.\n\nIn \"Karai's Vendetta,\" the captured Kraang was interrogated by Shredder on why they hunt the Turtles and told him on how they've been targeting April, who Shredder then sent Karai after to lure the Turtles out of hiding. Meanwhile, the rest of the Kraang had set up a base in the East River where they started a plot to turn Earth's water into Kraang water (which can dissolve a pizza yet not harm humans, or perhaps it just has no effect on April, hence the Kraang's interest in her) and brought a large unnamed sea monster from Dimension X to help guard it. The Turtles managed to destroy the base and escape from the sea monster. We do not know if it can harm humans or not as April is the one who the Kraang water splashed on and the Kraang want April for a special reason.\n\nIn \"The Pulverizer Returns,\" the Foot Clan began to steal mutagen from TCRI as part of Shredder's plan to create a mutant army. The captured Kraang tried to warn Shredder about how dangerous the mutagen is, but Shredder wouldn't listen and tried to go through with his plan. When the Turtles foiled it, Shredder and the captured Kraang agreed to say that they have a common enemy, foreshadowing a team-up between the villains.\n\nIn \"Operation: Break Out,\" it was shown that Shredder and the Kraang were working together, and that they engineered Kirby O'Neil's \"escape\" with the aid of the Turtles. The Kraang were also shown to have created a mutant hunter known as the Newtralizer, who proved to be beyond their control when it savagely attacked them after escaping his cell in the same holding facility where Kirby was held prisoner in. April, meanwhile, was led by her strange mind to discover one of the Kraang's devices, a Communication Orb, and bringing it back to the lair.\n\nIn \"Booyaka-Showdown,\" it was revealed that they have planted a mind control device on Kirby, which they use to force him to capture April and deliver her to Shredder, who uses her as bait to lure out Splinter. Having accomplished this, Shredder turned April over to the Kraang, who proceeded to use their portal to Dimension X to bring the Technodrone to Earth, though the Turtles subsequently succeeded in destroying the TCRI building. The Kraang's leader, Kraang Prime (voiced by Roseanne Barr), was eventually able to get the Technodrome out of the portal before then, starting the invasion on New York, and needed April's help with the terraforming process through her unique mental energies. However, the Turtles interfered in this plan, and the Technodrone was subsequently brought down off the coast of New York City, though it was revealed to be intact and partially active.\n\nThe Kraang continue to pose a threat throughout the second season, briefly maintaining an alliance with the Foot in which they provided them with robotic Foot ninja and attempt to provide them with mutagen so that they can create mutants to destroy the Turtles. However, their partnership was dissolved after a number of incidents, such as the Kraang setting up the Turtles to accidentally intercept a load of mutagen, which was subsequently scattered over the city, and programming their ultimate robot Foot ninja creation, Chrome Dome, to defy Karai's orders to kill April, as the Kraang still wished to capture her.\n\nIn \"The Kraang Conspiacy,\" it was subsequently revealed by a private investigator, Jack Kurtzman, who had been investigating the disappearances of Kirby O'Neil and the other scientists who the Kraang had kidnapped, that this is because the Kraang have been preparing to terraform Earth for centuries, altering human DNA until they could create a perfect human-Kraang hybrid: April. In their efforts to utilize her, the Kraang created a number of clones of April, including a misshapen failure dubbed \"April Derp\" by Michelangelo; all these clones are subsequently destroyed when April released a physic blast.\n\nIn \"Metalhead Rewired,\" the Kraang initiated a plot to capture the various mutants inhabiting New York and enslave them with special control devices. They succeeded in rounding up a number of mutants and imprisoning them in a facility in a pocket dimension, but the location was discovered by Metalhead and the Turtles. They briefly used Snakeweed and Spider Bytez against the Turtles, but Metalhead freed them and the other mutants, who escaped back to New York along with the Turtles.\n\nIn \"The Manhattan Project,\" the Turtles were focused on a Kraang plot in which the Kraang brought giant worm creatures known as Kraathatrogons to New York from Dimension X. These creatures were revealed to be the source of the mutagen, which they secrete and can be milked of, and also served as mounts for the Kraang. When the Turtles attempted to thwart their plans, they and the Kraang end up battling beneath New York and in the Kraang's interdimensional portal network. One of the Kraathatrogons was briefly seen swallowing Tiger Claw, a 6 and 1/2 ft. humanoid mutant Bengal tiger who, as a human child, was the subject of one of the Kraang's experiments in Japan uncounted years back and was recently trained into the Foot Clan as Shredder's new second-in-command. In the end, the Turtles are able to send the Kraathatrogons back into the portal network, with one of them ending up in the universe of the 1987 Ninja Turtles cartoon.\n\nIn \"Newtrailzed,\" the Kraang began mass production of a new vehicle at the docks: The Kraang Walker. Unfortunately for them, this vehicle was hijacked by the Newtralizer with the help of Slash, but Slash was shown the error of his ways and helped the Turtles and Casey Jones stop the mad amphibian from using the walker from eradicating both the Kraang and the city's human population.\n\nIn \"Into Dimension X,\" the Kraang have finally perfected the mutagen, but the Turtles were secretly warned about this success by Leatherhead through the Kraang Communication Orb. After finding their way into Dimension X and traveling to the Kraang's home fortress, which was being guarded by Traag and Granitor, the Turtles rescued Leatherhead and helped him stop the Kraang from dumping the perfected mutagen into Earth's dimension through multiple portals.\n\nIn \"The Invasion,\" the Foot Clan finally made a full alliance with the Kraang to draw out and destroy the Turtles in exchange in helping them invade the city, which the Kraang did through various spies; the character Irma Langenstein was discovered to be the robotic housing of one such spy named Kraang Sub-Prime (voiced by Gilbert Gottfried), who was eventually defeated by Splinter. Having perfected the mutagen in a previous episode, they began using it to \"Kraang-form\" New York, turning humans and their environs into creatures and structures reminiscent of Dimension X. The Turtles, Leatherhead, Splinter, April, and Casey briefly attempted to fight them off, but despite the aid of the new Turtle-Mech created by Donatello they were forced to retreat after a battle with Kraang Prime. Kraang Prime also claimed that the Kraang were responsible for the existence of humanity, who supposedly developed after the Kraang exposed monkeys to mutagen.\n\nIn \"Buried Secrets,\" the Turtles, April and Casey discovered a Kraang ship beneath April's family farmhouse, where her great-grandfather supposedly discovered it and the Kraang inside, leading to generations of experimentation on the deceased relatives on April's mothers side of the O'Neil family until culminating in experiments they performed on her mother. They also discovered a clone of April's mother who was sealed within the ship due to being unstable, and managed to defeat her.\n\nIn \"Return to New York,\" the Turtles returned to find the city under the control of the Kraang, with all humans-including the Earth Protection Force-being either mutated or fitted with mind control devices.\n\nIn \"Battle for New York,\" the Turtles's confrontation with the Kraang for the city occurred when they are unexpectedly joined by the Mighty Mutanimals, a rebel team of mutants . The two teams manage to thwart a Kraang plot to launch a mutagen missile, and then launch an attack on the Kraang portal so that the Turtles can infiltrate Dimension X and cure and free the mutated humans. This leads them to another confrontation with Kraang Sub-Prime, who follows the Turtles to Dimension X while the Mutanimals fight to capture and hold the portal. After battling Kraang forces on both sides of the gateway, the two groups of mutants succeed in teleporting the cured humans back to Earth while sending the Kraang back to Dimension X, putting a halt to the invasion for the time being.\n\nThe Kraang later returned in \"Dinosaurs Seen in Sewers!\", using the Statue of Liberty as a base in an effort to bring several Technodromes through a portal from Dimension X in order to use them to conquer Earth. However, these plans were thwarted by the Turtles and a terrifying new arrival to Earth: the Triceraton soldier Zog. After taking out several Kraang bases established in New York's underbelly, Zog and the Turtles discovered the Statue of Liberty base, and succeeded in shutting down the portal. However, a more devastating blow was struck when Zog succeeded in recovering a beacon device that the Kraang had stolen from him and used it to signal the Triceraton armada.\n\nIn \"Annihilation: Earth\" the Kraang finish repairs on the first Technodrome they brought to Earth, and launch it in an effort to renew their invasion. However, the Turtles and their allies are alerted to this scheme by Bishop, a member of the Utrom Tribe, who are revealed to be a breakaway group from the Kraang. These forces invade the Technodrome in an effort to bring it down before the Triceraton armada arrives, and during the battle it is revealed that Kraang Sub-Prime is apparently a former Utrom. Unfortunately, the Triceraton forces soon appear, and after a brief battle between their ships the Triceraton craft destroys the Technodrome and apparently Kraang Prime and Sub-Prime along with it.\n\n\"The War for Dimension X\" reveals more of the history of the Kraang: originally they were all peaceful Utrom, until the scientist Kraang discovered the mutagen within the Kraathatrogon worms. He used it to mutate himself into Kraang Prime, and gained psychic powers that he used to enslave most of his species. Some managed to resist, but by the time the Turtles approach the Utrom council-having traveled back in time six months in an effort to prevent Earth's destruction less than 100 Utrom remain free. The Utrom are revealed to have a ruling council consisting of Bishop, Pawn, Queen, and Rook; Kraang Sub-Prime was once the group's Knight and the greatest Utrom hero until he betrayed them to join the Kraang. In this altered past, Kraang Sub-Prime captures the Salamandrians after they approach the Kraang about forming an alliance against the Triceratons, having learned that they are friends of the Turtles. He then tracks the Turtles to the Utrom base, where he captures Queen and takes her back to his Sub-Command Center. The Utrom then declare war on Kraang Sub-Prime's facility and are joined by the Turtles, Professor Honeycutt, and the Salamandrians. Despite possessing a Dracotroid, Kraang Sub-Prime's forces are defeated and he loses a duel to Bishop, before having the damaged cyborg dragon crash into him and explode.\n\nIn \"Transdimensional Turtles\" it is indicated that Krang (1987)-or at least a version of him-is actually related to the Kraang of the 2012 series, who exiled him to the two-dimensional universe of the 1984 Ninja Turtles due to his incompetence. However, Kraang Sub-Prime gives him another chance to help conquer both universes, which they do using Krang's Technodrome as a base. Unbeknownst to Sub-Prime, however, Krang's \"Dimensionizer\" bombs are designed to destroy the realities in which they are planted, which he only learns after the Turtles of both the two and three-dimensional universes thwart Krang's plans. Enraged, he then banishes Krang back to the 2D world, only to be exiled himself to Turtle Prime.\n\nThe Malignoids are a race of vicious insect-like aliens that appear in the Archie Comics. They have tried to take over Earth many times only to be stopped by the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and the Mighty Mutanimals. Their queen is named Maligna. She is mother of all the malignoids in their hive world.\n\nThe Neutrinos appear in the 1987 cartoon, Archie Comics, IDW comics and the video game , and are peace-loving humanoid aliens from Dimension X, who travel by flying craft looking much like 1950s and '60s American automobiles.\n\nA race called the Neutrinos are also featured in the 2012 television series, but are here depicted as a microscopic alien race with hostile intentions. They are called upon by Vrax Belebome to invade Michelangelo's mind and capture his inner self so that Belebome can extract information about the Black Hole Generator from him for Lord Dregg.\n\nPolarisoids appear in the \"Camera Bugged\" and \"Welcome Back, Polarisoids\" episodes of the 1987 cartoon, when a family from a planet orbiting Polaris travels to the Earth. Their camera is able to shrink people and objects and teleport them inside the camera. The family members's names are Frip, Millimeter, F-Stop & Say Cheese\n\nThe Rock Soldiers (often called Stone Warriors, Stone Soldiers, or Rock Warriors) are an alien army of sentient humanoids from Dimension X whose bodies are composed of stone and are under the command of Krang.\n\nIn the 1987 cartoon, the Rock Soldiers come from Dimension X and are not natural beings. As noted in the episode \"Michelangelo's Birthday\", the Rock Soldiers were created by Krang through use of his mutagen on rocks, a rare example of a non-living creature being animated by the chemical and bred as soldiers for his army. They are incredibly strong and resistant to physical injury, but not terribly bright. Accordingly, the Rock Soldiers entire \"culture\" is geared towards war and conflict with a definite tendency towards aggression and hostility in regards to other species. Their numbers are organized into a strict hierarchy, with power/prestige directly linked to military rank. The current commander of the Stone Warrior legions is General Traag and his second-in-command is Lieutenant Granitor. At present, the Stone Warriors serve the exiled alien warlord, Krang. There are two basic types of Rock Soldiers, brown and grey variations.\n\nIn the Archie Comics version, the Rock Soldiers appear in the issues that adapted the episodes Hot Rodding Teenagers from Dimension X, Shredder & Splintered, and Return of the Shredder.\n\nIn the IDW Comics, the Stone Soldiers are a genetic development of Baxter Stockman who had the mutagen required for them made by Krangs orders. The Soldiers who undermine the transformation process come from the ranks of Krangs humanoid army from Dimension X where they were given rock-like skin.\n\nIn the 2012 series, Traag and Grantior are so far the only Rock Soldiers seen so far and are shown to be 20 ft. tall.\n\nGeneral Traag is the leader of Krang's loyal Rock Soldiers from Dimension X.\n\nIn the 1987 cartoon, Traag (voiced by Peter Renaday) came following the Neutrinos through the dimensional portal. After a small skirmish with the turtles, the Neutrinos teamed up with them and Michelangelo and Donatello sent both Traag and Lieutenant Granitor back through the portal and to their own dimension.\n\nHe appeared in Archie Comics arcade game, and .\n\nIn the IDW comics, he is called \"Captain Tragg\" and helped Krang in trying to conquer the home planet of the Neutrinos and completely escaped after the battle in which the END rocket from Professor Honeycutt put all of the weapons of Krang's forces out of action.\n\nIn the 2012 cartoon, Traag is a 20 ft lava-spewing rock monster with regenerating abilities, who is in service to the Kraang. He first appeared in \"TCRI,\" where he was brought by the Kraang through a portal that connected TCRI to Dimension X. He proved to be a challenge to the Turtles, so Leatherhead ended up dragging him through the portal back to Dimension X. In \"Showdown,\" Traag was seen guarding the portal when the Kraang upgraded it with a force field. When the Turtles tried to destroy it, they drew the attention of him and the Kraang, so Leonardo used the laser to disintegrate Traag. In \"Into Dimension X,\" Traag teamed up with Granitor to attack the Turtles near the Kraang's facility in Dimension X. However, they were both defeated by Michelangelo in his \"savage\" suit when he used his voice to break apart the part of the cliff both rock monsters were on.\n\nLieutenant Granitor is General Traag's right-hand man, and one of Krang's loyal Rock Soldiers from Dimension X.\n\nIn the 1987 cartoon, Granitor (voiced by Pat Fraley) came following the Neutrinos through the dimensional portal. After a small skirmish with the turtles, the Neutrinos teamed up with them and Michelangelo and Donatello sent both Granitor and General Tragg back through the portal and to their own dimension.\n\nHe appeared in the arcade game, and .\n\nIn the IDW comics, he is called \"Sergeant Granitor\" and commanded an assault on a Neutrino resistance bunker, to capture the Fugitoid and bring him back to Krang. Due to Granitor's command, the Neutrino bunker was destroyed and many innocent Neutrinos killed along with Fugitoid's family. Later on he and several other Rock Soldiers was searching the demolished base for Fugitoid. Granitor realized that the Fugitoid was in fact Honeycutt and chased him through a portal to Earth. However, the Fugitoid used his morphing abilities to shapeshift himself into human form and get lost in the crowd.\n\nIn the 2012 cartoon, Granitor is a 20 ft blue fire-spewing rock monster with regenerating abilities, who resembles Traag (but is pale-pink in color) and is in service to the Kraang. He first appeared in \"Into Dimension X,\" where he teamed up with Traag to attack the Turtles near the Kraang's facility in Dimension X. However, they were both defeated by Michelangelo in his \"savage\" suit when he used his voice to break apart the part of the cliff both rock monsters were on.\n\nSons of Silence is a group of aliens in the Archie Comics.\n\nTriceratons refers to the alien race that resemble anthropomorphic \"Triceratops\". The Triceratons are depicted as rivals of the Federation.\n\nThey are recurring characters in the Mirage comics\n\nThe Triceratons appear in only one episode of the 1987 animated series, \"Night of the Dark Turtle\", and are not seen again.\n\nThey also appear in various video games.\n\nThe Triceratons were featured in the 2003 animated series as a race that desires galactic conquest. They have advanced technology, a strong government, and gladiatorial battles, but are noted to have once been a peaceful republic before falling under the leadership of a corrupt politician. Due to the Triceratons hostility towards humans, Earth attempts a nuclear attack on their planet. There are many notable Triceraton figures in the series, and the Turtles engage them or fight alongside the more noble members of the species on several occasions. In the end Prime Leader Zanramon is overthrown by the noble Traximus, leading to peace; however, the Triceratons later pose a threat again in the year 2105.\n\nIn the 2012 animated series, an individual Triceraton is briefly seen in Tiger Claw's flashback in the episode \"The Wrath of Tiger Claw.\" In the Season 3 finale, \"Annihilation: Earth,\" the Triceraton Empire launches an invasion on Earth to not only wipe out the Kraang, but the entire planet as well. It is revealed that the Kraang and Triceratons have been at war for centuries, with the Kraang using a black hole generator to destroy the Triceraton homeworld only for the Triceratons to recover its scattered pieces for use against their enemies. Though the Turtles put up a valiant effort, it's Shredder's personal revenge that ensures the Triceratons are victorious and the Earth is destroyed. In Season 4, the Turtles are given a second chance by the Fugitoid to prevent Earth's destruction by the Triceratons, and after a number of clashes succeed in doing so. The conclusion of the season ends with the destruction of the Triceraton fleet, and thus the race's apparent extinction.\n\nCommander Mozar is a military commander of the Triceraton Republic in the Mirage comics and 2003 and 2012 animated series, where he is the scarred chief military officer of the Triceraton forces. In the 2003 series Mozar is the counterpart of General Blanque when it comes to military matters. Mozar is the dedicated right hand of Zanramon, the Triceraton Prime Leader. He led the mission into territory controlled by the Federation of D'Hoonib, seeking to capture Professor Honeycutt. He succeeded, thanks to help from Blanque's private aid. However, he also captured the Turtles in the bargain.\n\nIn the third season of the 2003 series, during the massive Triceraton invasion of Earth, Mozar begins to resent Zanramon's tyranny and bloodlust, as he refuses to fire on a disabled Federation fleet and is visibily disturbed when he is ordered to leave a squadron of their troops to fend for themselves in order to save the homeworld from Honeycutt's virus. When the rebel leader Traximus arrives to depose Zanramon, Mozar holds no objection and gladly orders his troops to stand down as his leader is overthrown. He remains a right hand to Traximus after Zanramon's fall from power.\n\nMozar appears in the 2012 \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" series with the rank of captain, and is voiced by Michael Dorn. He leads the attack on Earth to destroy it and thus prevent the Kraang from using it as a new homeworld, and employs a Black Hole Generator previously used by the Kraang to destroy the Triceraton homeworld. However, the Turtles escape Earth's destruction and then travel back in time six months in an effort to prevent this event from happening. The Turtles subsequently encounter him in this alternate timeline during their efforts to prevent the Triceratons from acquiring the Heart of Darkness-their name for the Black Hole Generator. Mozar acquires one fragment and is promoted to admiral, but it is later stolen back by the Turtles, resulting in Mozar's demotion back to captain. He becomes obsessed with regaining his title and achieving revenge on the Turtles, to the point of employing illegal weapons and allying-albeit briefly-with the criminal Lord Dregg. His methods prove successful, and the Triceratons then set their course for Earth. Upon engaging the past Turtles on Earth, he eventually realizes that the ones he's faced previously traveled back in time; the two teams then unite to defeat him, and he perishes along with the rest of his kind.\n\nTraximus was a noble warrior of the Triceraton Republic who believed that its old virtues should be restored in the 2003 series and the video game . He spoke to the council and, at the orders of the tyrannical Zanramon, found himself in the dungeons with warriors taking part in \"The Games\". He was left to rot in his despair until he was bested by Leonardo, who spared his life with honor. Inspired by this act of kindness, Traximus regains hope that the current dictatorship can be overthrown, and leads the other gladiators to freedom in the midst of the chaos surrounding the Turtles' escape. He participates in the Battle Nexus tournament, though only to court more warriors to aid him in his cause. He is eliminated from the tournament by Raphael, but the two work together to free the imprisoned Splinter from the Daimyo's son, and Traximus is ultimately the one who saved the protagonists from falling into a rift in time and space when he anchors his axe into the ground and holds onto them all. In the third season, as the Triceratons invade Earth, Traximus has recruited a larger following after the Battle Nexus, and he aids the Turtles in rescuing the captured Donatello. At the end of the six-part story arc, Traximus has finally overthrown Zanramon and declares the war with the Federation to be over, expressing his wish for a new age of peace and honor to begin, with no further absolute rulers as Zanramon was.\n\nA very similar character named Zeno is featured in the 2012 series, where he is a Triceraton imprisoned for opposing Emperor Zanramon's plans to use the Black Hole Generator against the Kraang. After giving the Turtles some advice about battling in the Triceraton arena, he faces them in the arena, and achieves victory due to his great size, strength, and skill. However, after the Turtles plead with him, Zeno rebels against Zanramon, creating a commotion that enables the heroes to escape. His only appearance was in his debut episode, \"The Arena of Carnage\"; what became of him after he helped the Turtles is unknown.\n\nZanramon is the Prime Leader Zanramon of the Triceraton Republic led the war against the Federation of D'Hoonib in the Mirage comic book and in the second Ninja Turtles animated series. Zanramon first appears in TMNT (vol. 1) #6, where he captures the turtles and Professor Honeycutt, wishing to acquire Fugitoid's teleporting technology for the Republic's use. The turtles' captivity is short-lived, however, as they manage not only to free themselves and the Fugitoid but to take Zanramon hostage as well. While making their escape, Zanramon is accidentally shot by his own guards and presumed dead by the turtles. Zanramon is not heard of again until TMNT (vol. 4) #28, where Michelangelo is informed that Zanramon had survived, and was no longer Prime Leader of the Triceratons: after the Fugitoid's escape, the then-leader lost political capital, and he was quickly deposed by opposing factions.\n\nIn the 2003 series, when Professor Honeycutt was brought to him, he offers the robot full civil rights and privileges of a Triceraton citizen, but eventually resorts to forcing Honeycutt to build his teleporter lest he execute the Turtles. However, the Turtles survive both the Triceraton prison and the gladiatorial arena, and take the prime leader hostage, culminating in the theft of his personal space cruiser. When Honeycutt is traced to Earth months later, Zanramon orders a full-scale invasion on the planet. Zanramon demands they turn over the Professor or the Earth is destroyed - also revealing Donatello to the entire world (though this thankfully has no lasting effects on the Turtles' secrecy). Humanity ultimately loses the battle with the Triceratons, when even the Justice Force and nuclear weapons can't turn the tide. The Turtles return, rescue Donatello, and once again steal Zanramon's cruiser, to his rage. When Donatello is able to convince him that the Professor is not on Earth, Zanramon orders a retreat, only to deploy his forces yet again when the Professor finally appears on Earth. To Commander Mozar's disgust, Zanramon exhibits increasing amounts of ruthlessness, even to the point of abandoning a squadron of their own scouts. When Traximus and his rebels arrive Zanramon is immediately dethroned by Traximus, and is forced to occupy a cell facing his nemesis, former Federation leader Blanque.\n\nIn the 2012 series, Zanmoran (voice by Michael Ironside) is the Emperor of the Triceraton Empire, and orders that Earth be destroyed using the Black Hole Generator/Heart of Darkness. After the Turtles travel back in time to prevent this, they are captured during their infiltration of the Triceraton Mother Ship, and their efforts impress Zanmoran enough that he orders them to be thrown into the arena. When the Fugitoid is captured during an effort to rescue them, Zanmoran attempts to force him to repair the Black Hole Generator, but he refuses; the Turtles subsequently escape by briefly taking Zanmoran hostage. Zanmoran only appeared in \"The Arena of Carnage,\" and was presumably killed when the Fugitoid destroyed the Triceraton fleet.\n\nIn the Mirage comics, Zog was one of two Triceraton soldiers left on Earth when the Utroms left. Some time later, Raphael found him in the sewers, and the Turtles used him to aid in their attack on the Foot. His mind was almost nothing, often laughing and priding himself on \"knowing all.\" He mistook the Turtles for leaders of a Triceraton invasion and referred to Raphael as commander Zoraph. Having sustained substantial damage by a number of Foot ninja, he was eventually killed by the three mutated Shredder clones when he charged too far ahead of the team.\n\nIn the 2003 series, Zog was one of the Triceratons teleported to Earth mid-battle with the Federation over Honeycutt's teleporter. However, while the other Federation and Triceraton forces are returned home by the Utroms, Zog became lost in the sewers, and was found by the Turtles choking to death from lack of his native air. Believing the Turtles to be Triceraton-allied military leaders, Zog pledges his undying loyalty to them and later \"General\" Splinter, in particular befriending Michelangelo. Zog participates in the Turtles' assault on the Shredder's feighter ship, and was a valuable asset thanks to his size and ferocity. Zog personally battles the Shredder and proves to be quite a match for the Utrom. In a heroic sacrifice, Zog grabbed hold of the Shredder and tossed them both into the flames of the sinking ship, in an attempted murder-suicide, wishing for his story of loyalty and honor to be told by his commanding officers. Tragically, the Shredder survives this attack, but the Turtles recognize that Zog gave them their lives with his sacrifice.\n\nWhen the Turtles travel back in time to the Cretaceous era, they encounter a Triceratops who befriends Michelangelo, who wonders if he is an ancestor of Zog, though Donatello quickly reminds him of Zog's nature as an alien. Nevertheless, Michelangelo dubs the Triceratops Zog in his friend's memory, and the dinosaur proves to be an invaluable ally during the Turtles' stay in the Cretaceous. In the final 'Back to the Sewers' season, Michelangelo encounters a ceratopsian with the horns of a Triceratops and the frill of a Styracosaurus, who he dubs Zog II, proving that the Turtles, despite the four season amount of time that had passed, had not forgotten the sacrifice of their friend.\n\nIn the 2012 TV series, Zog is a soldier of the Triceraton Empire who traveled to the Earth in quest of Kraangs and alert to the Triceraton Empire to invade and destroy the planet. Due to having his equipment taken from him by the Kraang, he is left somewhat addled by the lack of nitrogen in Earth's atmosphere, allowing Raphael to pass for a commanding officer named Zoraph. Raph employs his hatred of the Kraang in an effort to take out the Kraang, only to learn that Zog is trying to summon the Triceraton armada in order to defeat the Kraang by annihilating the planet. Despite the Turtles' best efforts, Zog succeeds in sending out a signal, before apparently perishing in a fall from the Statue of Liberty's torch due to refusing to let Raphael help him back up. He is later mentioned again in the following season when-due to the Turtles traveling back in time-the events of his sending the signal are witnessed from the Triceraton side.\n\nCaptain Zorax appears in the 1980s animated series.\n\nVoiced by Jess Harnell.\n\nThe leader of the Triceraton All-Star Gladiator team in the 2003 animated series. Monza Ram and his fellow All-Stars were called upon by Zanramon to battle the Turtles in the Triceraton arena, but suffered defeat. They were subsequently imprisoned by Prime Leader Zanramon for their failure, but freed by Traximus' resistance forces, whom they subsequently joined. Monza Ram would later join forces with his old foes, the Turtles, in order to help them rescue a captured Donatello.\n\nVoiced by David Zen Mansley. Curiously, Monza Ram's name is made up of the same letters as Zanramon.\n\nA Triceraton crime boss who appears in \"\", often during the Turtles' misadventures with intergalactic outlaw Torbin Zixx. Zixx describes the Triceraton Republic as not being \"what it used to be,\" citing Zukko and other mobsters like him as evidence. Zuko and Zixx have had dealings in the past, often resulting in Zixx's betrayal of Zuko or incurring heavy debts that Zukko seeks to collect on.\n\nSeveral unproduced episodes of \"Fast Forward\" would have reintroduced the Utrom Shredder and had him take over the body of a Triceraton, becoming the \"TriShreddatron.\" It is possible that this Triceraton could have been Zukko or a member of his gang.\n\nVoiced by Shawn Curran.\n\nThe first-named female Triceraton who appears in the 2012 series special episode \"Half Shell Heroes: Blast to the Past\". Zera is taller than most Triceratons and has a frill resembling that of a Chasmosaurus rather than a Triceratops. She and her garrison-including her overweight underling Lieutenant Zorg-made their way to Earth's Cretaceous Period by unknown means and enslaved dinosaurs to assist in the excavation of an element known as Chronite that enables time travel. Their plans involved using the Chronite to enable the Triceratons to travel through time and invade different periods. However, their operation suffered interference when the Turtles, Bebop and Rocksteady inadvertently ended up in the Cretaceous Period due to using a Chronite crystal of their own to power Donatello's latest vehicle. Despite capturing Bebop and Rocksteady and employing a force of robotic Velociraptors and a mechanical Spinosaurus, Zera and her forces were defeated by the Turtles and their dinosaur allies.\n\nVoiced by Kate Mulgrew.\n\nThe Utroms are aliens in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles universe that resemble the brain.\n\nIn the 2003 cartoon series the Utroms are a benevolent, highly advanced race whose only known criminal is the red Utrom Ch'rell, who eventually assumed the identity of the Shredder after causing an Utrom vessel carrying him to crash land on Earth. The Utroms subsequently spent nearly a thousand years waiting for human technology to reach the point that they could construct a means of getting home, while also fighting a covert war with Ch'rell and his human underlings, the Foot Clan. Among the Utroms' activities were creating the front company TCRI to conceal their true agenda, and recruiting human Guardians such as Hamato Yoshi. This would eventually culminate in the Foot invasion of the TCRI headquarters in New York shortly after the Turtles infiltrated the building in search of Master Splinter. The Utroms succeeded in returning home, and eventually returned to apprehend the Shredder and exile him to an icy asteroid. During the future seen in \"Fast Forward\", the Utroms were apparently among the aliens involved in the Pan-Galactic Alliance.\n\nIn the 2012 animated series, the Utroms were originally a once great race until a scientist named Kraang discovered mutagen and used it to gain psychic abilities. Kraang used his powers to enslave most of his kind, establishing a hive mind while going by the name of Kraang Prime. The Ultroms that maintain their free will broke away from the Kraang and maintain an oath of noninvolvement in the affairs of Earth, but have been shown to take other action such as hiding the three components of the Kraang Black Hole Generator in an effort to prevent it from falling into the wrong hands. Like their 2003 counterparts, they also befriend Professor Honeycutt, a.k.a. the Fugitoid, who later goes on a mission with the Turtles to prevent the destruction of Earth.\n\nKrang is suggested to be an Utrom in the daily comic strip.\n\nAn Utrom named Krang (who has no resemblance to the original) makes a small appearance in the 2003 series.\n\nGeneral Krang is considered an Utrom in the IDW Comics. He is one of the major antagonists in the series and is more cunning and threatening than the 1987 version.\n\nIn the 2012 series, the villainous Kraang Prime was once a scientist named Kraang, who discovered the mutagen within the native Kraathatrogon worms of Dimension X. Using it on himself, he mutated into the monstrous Kraang Prime and used his new mental powers to enslave most of his race.\n\nKorobon is an Utrom who declared himself ambassador to Earth from the Utrom Confederation. He addressed the U.N. on live television and explained what the Utroms had planned to do on Earth. He appeared in Volume 4 of the Mirage comic.\n\nThe name is actually \"Utrom\" spelled backwards, Mr. Mortu is an Utrom commander (voiced by Dan Green) and one of the Utroms stranded on Earth when the Utrom criminal Ch'rell forced the prison ship transporting him to crash in feudal Japan in the 2003 series. He remains on Earth though the centuries, later stationed at the Utrom's Tokyo headquarters following World War II. He is saved from muggers by a young Hamato Yoshi and Yukio Mashimi, who discover his secret during the scuffle. He inducts both into the ranks of the Guardians, and is forced to evacuate the Tokyo facility after Mashimi betrays them to the Shredder.\n\nIn the present day, he is stationed in New York City in the TCRI building, the Utroms' New York base of operations. When Splinter is injured in the Turtles' assault on the Shredder's headquarters, Mortu has him brought to the TCRI building and cared for, unbeknownst to the Turtles. When the Turtles return to Earth from their voyage across space, it is Mortu who transmatted them home and who brings the healed Splinter to them. He shows the Turtles and Splinter the origins of the Utroms on Earth using a communal mind pod, but the experience goes terribly wrong when Baxter Stockman hacks the system and traps the Turtles and Splinter in the simulation. As the Shredder (by then revealed to be the alias of the criminal Ch'rell) and his forces destroy the building, Mortu and the Utroms transmat back to their homeworld. Before they leave, Mortu presents Splinter with gift: an orb containing memories of his master Yoshi from the Guardian archives.\n\nWhen the Turtles later destroy the Shredder's starship with themselves aboard in an effort to keep him from plundering the galaxy, Mortu's forces arrive seconds before the detonation, encasing the Shredder's ship in a stasis bubble long enough to transmat the Turtles and Splinter to safety, and the Shredder and his accomplices to holding cells. Mortu later presides over the tribunal meeting that sentences the Utrom Ch'rell to exile aboard an icy asteroid.\n\nMortu attended the O'Neil-Jones wedding as an honored guest. He mentions a bad experience at a previous wedding that seems to have involved being mistaken for an entree at a sushi buffet, which he remains bitter about.\n\nProfessor Obligado was a brilliant Utrom scientist. His life and death are shown in the back pages of several issues of the current Tales of the TMNT. \"Obligado\" means \"obligated/forced to\" in Spanish, although his name more likely comes from the brain component \"medulla oblongata\".\n\nSlashuur is a character that appears in the video game \"\". According to it, Slashuur is an Utrom who was slashed when Shredder attacked his own home planet. He survived, but not without two scars. He is a former competitor of the Battle Nexus. For unknown purposes, he became known as the greatest mercenary in the multiverse, which was after he somehow achieved his Slashuur exosuit, with the cost of his own memory. He worked under Shredder, not knowing he was attacked by him. His weapon is a sickle called Gengetsu, which drains people's energy upon impact, feeding it to Slashuur. He has three known costumes. They have the same design, just different colors. The first one is orange, which appears when Slashuur appears in Episode 4-5. The second one is black, which appears when Slashuur appears in Episode 10-3. The third one is when he is a playable character. It is white. After fighting the Turtles twice, he learns what really happens. Slashuur then assists them in their battle in Episode 11, but only in the cutscenes. He doesn't appear in the 2003 series, similar to Planet Zero's appearance in that same game. He is voiced by Jason Griffith.\n\nBased on a storyline by Leatherhead creator Ryan Brown, Dr. Xeinos is an Utrom scientist who was caught in the blast of the TCRI building in the Image and Mirage comics. Left behind and abandoned on Earth after the Utroms fled for their homeplanet, he was found by and befriended Leatherhead who nursed him back to health. He also played chess with Splinter. He was revealed to be the one who found Leatherhead in the sewers when he was still a normal alligator.\n\nBoth the 2003 and 2012 animated series feature councils as the leading political bodies of the Utrom, both the race as a whole and in smaller groups. In the 2003 series, the Utrom council is a trio of mind-linked Utroms who served as the navigators for the ship that brought the Utrom to Earth. Both Captain Mortu and the Utrom's human Guardians are subordinate to them, and the first priority of the council is the safety of their people. Another Utrom council was also formed at the trial of Ch'rell, the Utrom Shredder, and pronounced sentence on him, exiling him to a frozen asteroid.\n\nIn the 2012 series the members of the Utrom Council are individuals, like all Utrom, and each is named for a chess piece.\n\nIn the 2012 series an Utrom is introduced who goes by the Earth name of Bishop, and is responsible for the design of the Utrom/Kraang android body or \"Norman.\" He is distinguished from other users of this body by his use of sunglasses, ability to speak normal English, and his incredible combat skill. Despite the Utrom code of noninvolvement, he comes to Earth to warn the Turtles of the imminent arrival of the Triceraton armada and the rise of the sunken Technodrome, although he had to fight them in order to gain their trust when they mistaken him for a Kraang. He joins forces with the Turtles and their allies in an effort to stop the Technodrome, and then to prevent the Triceratons from activating the Black Hole Generator and destroying the Earth. During the former battle, he reveals that recurring villain Kraang Sub-Prime was once an Utrom as well.\n\nThe Turtles later met Bishop again-though from his perspective it was for the first time-when they traveled into the past to try and prevent Earth's destruction. He is revealed to be an old friend of Professor Honeycutt's, but was unaware of the Professor's brain being installed into a robotic body. He and the rest of the Council meet to discuss the Turtles' request for their help, only to be attacked by Kraang Sub-Prime and his forces. Later Bishop and his peers lead an Utrom attack on Kraang Sub-Prime's base, during which Bishop engages his former brother-previously known by the name Knight-and defeats him. After Kraang Sub-Prime's apparent destruction, Bishop then reveals to the Turtles the locations of the last remaining components of the Black Hole Generator.\n\nHe later became the new owner of TCRI and allies himself with the Earth Protection Force, but due to the Turtles and Tokka's presence, their alliance nearly came to an end due to the EPF paranormally thinking that all aliens and mutants-alike are threats.\nWhen Newtralizer and Lord Dregg suddenly attack Earth, he helps the turtles and Salamanderians Commander Sal and Mona Lisa fight them.\n\nVoiced by Nolan North.\n\nOne of the other members of the Utrom Council, and possibly its highest-ranking member as indicated by her title. Queen pilots an Utromdroid body similar in design to the \"Mrs. Campbell\" androids employed by the Kraang on Earth, though with a different color scheme. Shortly after the Turtles approached the Utrom looking for help in locating the other pieces of the Heart of Darkness, a.k.a. the Black Hole Generator, the Utrom base was invaded and Queen was abducted by Kraang Sub-Prime. Fortunately, she was rescued by the alliance of the Turtles, Utrom, and a pair of Salamandrians, and later agreed to help the Turtles continue their quest to save Earth.\n\nLater, when Newtralizer suddenly attacks the Utrom Council, her \"Mrs Campbell\" android was damaged again.\n\nVoiced by Cassandra Peterson.\n\nAnother member of the Utrom council, Rook is responsible for the design that was copied by Kraang Sub-Prime to disguise his own personal exo-suit as Irma Langinstein and to mass-produce the apparently unpiloted Irma-bots. She is furious with Sub-Prime for this, as well as his betrayal of the Utrom. Sadly, Rook does not appear to possess Sub-Prime's armaments or his combat ability, being more of a politician with a detailed knowledge of Utrom law than a fighter.\n\nLater, when Newtralizer suddenly attacks the Utrom Council, her exo-suit was decapitated.\n\nVoiced by Kate Micucci.\n\nThe final member of the Utrom Council, and the only one without an Utromdroid body disguised as a human. Pawn resembles an uncovered Utromdroid/Kraangdroid, with the curious addition of a curly mustache. Along with his fellow Utrom, Pawn was stunned to learn that the Black Hole Generator fragment hidden on Aeon had corrupted its inhabitants, and thus eventually agreed to reveal the location of the other pieces to the Turtles and their allies.\nLater, when Newtralizer suddenly attacks the Utrom Council, he almost gets eaten.\n\nLike Bishop and most of the Kraang, Pawn is voiced by Nolan North.\n\nA traitorous former member of the Utrom Council, previously known as one of their greatest heroes. Unlike the many Utroms who were enslaved by Kraang Prime, the Utrom formerly known as Knight apparently willingly joined the ruthless dictator and turned against his fellow Utroms. He became the self-proclaimed \"greatest spymaster in Dimension X,\" keeping tabs on April O'Neil by posing as her friend Irma Langstein using a Kraangdroid body whose design he had stolen from Rook. He was also responsible for banishing the 1987 Krang-or a version thereof-to two-dimensional Earth on account of his stupidity, though he later briefly allied with him in an effort to destroy all Turtles. Sub-Prime has demonstrated incredible resilience, having survived several apparent demises only to return and menace the Turtles and their friends again. He also has a long-running rivalry with Bishop, who once considered him a brother but now despises him, calling him \"Sub-Subprime.\" Sub-Prime is also responsible for the Kraang obtaining the Black Hole Generator, having purchased it from a younger and less ethically minded Professor Honeycutt.\n\nKraang Sub-Prime is voiced by Gilbert Godfried.\n\nA Zipp is an alien featured in the 80's animated series as a little creature from Dimension X, appearing during season 4 (\"The Big Zipp Attack\"), and increases itself when eating. It also eats metal, and reduction requires them eating Rigidium, a very rare metal on the Earth.\n\nA race of aliens from the 2012 animated series who, as their name suggests, resemble Salamanders or Newts. Appearing larger than the Turtles and regular humans, the Salamandrians are a lithe but muscular warrior race who employ ships resembling aquatic creatures. They delight in battle, are generally hostile towards those not of their species, and often repeat the phrase \"Rokka, rokka!\", which has no apparent English translation. One Salamandrian is known to have a violent feud with the Kraang, with whom Salamandrians have roughly equivalent technology, while others have been seen fighting the Triceratons; the latter rivalry apparently applies to the whole species. More recently, the entire planet was attacked by Lord Dregg's armada, which he used to blackmail two Salamandrians into betraying the Turtles until they learned that he had no intention of sparing their world\n\nSalamandrians regard the extension of the hand-as in attempting to give a handshake-as a hostile gesture, whereas touching each other's noses together is the equivalent of a Salamandrian kiss; their native language sounds like roaring to human or Turtle ears.\n\nA Salamandrian with black skin and an orange belly with spots resembling a human skull, resembling the emblem of Marvel Comics' Punisher. Also similar to the Punisher, he has a single-minded obsession with destroying the Kraang, to the point where he has no qualms about harming innocents if it means annihilating them. He also possesses a range of highly advanced weapons, including blades, explosives, and blasters.\n\nThe Newtralizer was so named by Donatello; his true name isn't known until the episode \"When Worlds Collide\". He is a vicious foe of the Kraang, going so far as eating one after defeating them in battle. By unknown means he came to Earth and was imprisoned in a Kraang detention facility, where he was later joined as an inmate by April's father Kirby O'Neal. As a result, he was unexpectedly freed when Donatello opened all the cells to free Kirby, and soon began attacking the Kraang and then the Turtles. After a tough battle the Turtles managed to escape with Kirby, but the Newtralizer remained at large. He later returned in a partnership with Slash, whom he befriended after freeing him from a Kraang facility. The pair fought a two-man war against the Kraang, even stealing teleporter devices and plutonium with which to power them and setting their sights on a Kraang walker due to arrive on Earth. However, the Newtralizer's extreme methods soon wore thin on Slash, who joined forces with the Turtles to stop him. While attempting to escape the explosion of the walker, Newtralizer employed a malfunctioning teleporter, and was then seen surrounded by its energies with uncertain results.\n\nVoiced by Danny Trejo.\n\nCommander G'Throkka, also dubbed Sal Commander by Michelangelo (with Laser Lizard and G.I. Newt being rejected alternatives) is a Salamandrian commander who led a trio of Salamandrian fighters against the Triceraton armada in \"The Moons of Thalos 3.\" G'Throkka is a veteran warrior who bears the scars of a number of battles, with a cybernetic tail, left eye, and severe scarring on his left side. He employs a spiked club on the end of his tail and a collapsible sword as weapons, but is also quite competent with his bare hands. Despite this, he is somewhat more fair-minded than other Salamandrian warriors, being more receptive towards interacting with \"Outworlders\" when they display honorable tendencies.\n\nAfter crash-landing on a methane ice moon due to an accidental collision between their ship and the Turtles' Ulixes, G'Throkka and his copilot Lieutenant Y'Gythgba set their sights on the Turtles and their allies. G'Throkka was the more receptive of the two towards the idea of working together with the Turtles, but soon joined the lieutenant in fighting them due to a misunderstanding. However, the pair ended up forming an alliance with Raphael to battle the moon's native ice dragons, and soon joined forces with the other Turtles. After recovering material needed to repair both their vessels, they parted ways as friends. During this adventure, G'Throkka noticed signs of Y'Gythba's growing interest in Raphael, shortly before being temporarily frozen by one of the dragons.\n\nG'Throkka and Y'Gythgba later traveled to Dimension X to approach the Kraang about an alliance against the Triceratons, only to be refused and then imprisoned after it was learned that they had previously fought alongside the Turtles. Mikey and Raph later discovered the pair in Kraang Sub-Prime's Sub Command Center while looking for the Utrom Queen, and G'Throkka was reluctant to help them due to believing the Kraang and the Utrom to be identical. However, after being reminded of his own willingness to trust the Turtles on their previous encounter, he joined them in rescuing Queen and then helping the Utroms and Turtles fight against the Kraang. Subsequently, he was captured by Armaggon on the orders of Lord Dregg, and he and Y'Gthgba reluctantly agreed to betray the Turtles in exchange for Dregg sparing their world. However, they soon learned that Dregg had lied, and joined the Turtles in fighting him for their mutual freedom.\n\nVoiced by Keith David.\n\nA female Salamandrian who was given her nickname by Raphael after he developed a crush on her. Mona Lisa is a nod to a character from the 1984 cartoon series, who unlike the 2012 version was a human mutated into a lizard rather than an alien being. Like her counterpart she serves as a love interest for Raphael, who she becomes interested in after he comes to her aid during a battle. Smaller and more agile than her commanding officer G'Throkka, she fights employing weapons gauntlets that include lasers and blades and a collapsible sword weapon. Unlike her commander, she was initially more hostile towards non-Salamandrians and was without reserve towards the idea of wiping out the Turtles for interrupting their attack on the Triceratons.\n\nY'Gythgba urged her commander to attack the Turtles and their allies, which they did after a brief verbal confrontation that ended with a miscommunication. During the fight her fighting prowess and ability impressed Raphael, who soon became enamored of her. He soon caught up with the pair of Salamandrians on their way to obtain material both sides needed to fix their damaged ships, and impressed Y'Gythgba to the point that she tried to get rid of him by blasting the ice beneath his feet rather than trying to hit him. The trio ended up joining forces when they were attacked by ice dragons, and Raphael saved Y'Gythgba from two of the attackers. After repaying his gesture, the pair introduced themselves, at which point Raph gave her the nickname Mona Lisa. Fully reciprocating Raph's attraction by this point, she joined him and G'Throkka in aiding the other Turtles and their friends. They then obtained the material they had been searching for-a crashed Triceraton space mine-and raced it back to the Turtles' ship. Professor Honeycutt managed to get the vessel repaired shortly after the others' suits were running out of power, and Mona and Raphael were reunited after slipping into unconsciousness following what they assumed would be their farewell. The pair soon parted ways, but expressed hopes that they would see each other again.\n\nMona and Raphael would later meet again when he and Michelangelo found her and G'Throkka imprisoned by Kraang Sub-Prime, whom they had attempted to convince to join forces with the Salamandrians against the Triceratons. After Kraang Sub-Prime refused in favor of continuing the Kraang \"strategy\" of fleeing the Triceratons' wrath, Mona made the unwitting error of suggesting that they team up with the Turtles again, leading the Kraang to take them captive. Upon escaping, Mona willingly joined the Turtles in their crusade to rescue the Utrom Queen, and even helped persuade G'Throkka to help despite his reservations about working with the \"good Kraang.\" She and Raphael proved quite affectionate during the ensuing conflict, to the chagrin of both Mikey and G'Throkka. At the end of the battle they parted ways once again, but Mona expressed a desire to spend more time with him if they ever met again.\n\nMona later approached the Turtles with word that Armaggon had captured Sal Commander, and together they went to Sectoid 1 to rescue him from Lord Dregg. However, the Turtles soon learned that Mona and G'Throkka had cut a deal with Dregg: delivering the Turtles into his trap in exchange for his halting his attack on their homeworld. Mona was deeply troubled by the arrangement, and more so when she learned that Dregg had no intention of honoring his promises. She and G'Throkka soon joined the Turtles in fighting Dregg, and later volunteered to hold off his forces while the Turtles escaped. Knowing how badly she had hurt Raphael, Mona declared her love for him, and the Turtles quickly joined their friends in battle. Mona was wounded by one of Dregg's monstrous minions, but was rescued by Raphael, who attacked Dregg in a fury upon seeing her harmed; she soon recovered, and she and Raphael were reconciled.\n\nAfter returning to earth, Mona Lisa has been barely mentioned by Raphael but was mentioned by Donatello and Raphael was not happy to hear her name. Showing how much he misses her.\n\nVoiced by Zelda Williams.\n\nA race of aliens somewhat similar to the Triceratons, but resembling humanoid Styracosauruses rather than Triceratopses, that appeared in the Mirage Comics.\n\nAn insectoid race ruled over by Lord Dregg in the 2012 animated series, the Vreen are a hive-mind alien race originating from Sectoid 1. They answer to Dregg alone, and without his presence are incapable of acting on their own initiative.\n\nAn ancient race featured in the 2012 animated series, the Aeons were one of the oldest civilizations in the universe, majestic winged beings who eschewed all forms of technology. Because of this, the Utroms believed it safe to entrust them with one of the pieces of the Black Hole Generator created by their enemy, Kraang, in order to keep it out of dangerous hands. Unfortunately, the power of the piece corrupted the Aeons, who hid away their most precious treasure before transforming into monstrous shadows of their former selves. Their planet soon fell to ruin, and in such state it was when the Turtles, their allies, and the Triceratons arrived seeking the Black Hole Generator fragment. After solving the clues left behind by the Aeons, the Turtles were able to return them to their previous state, and the grateful Aeons gave April O'Neil a fragment of their treasure to enhance her mental powers before the heroes departed.\n\nAn amphibious race that are known to be honorable and noble, they are introduced in the 2012 animated series, the Daagon live in the cosmic ocean of Veruna, a liquid nebula over which they rule. Ancient allies of the Utrom, they were entrusted with a piece of the Black Hole Generator by them, and watched over it protectively for centuries. Hiidralla, Supreme Ruler of the Daagon, orchestrated a test in which those who sought the Black Hole Generator would have to face Cthuuga, a massive aquatic beast that obeyed only her will. The Turtles and their allies traveled to Veruna to obtain the second piece of the Black Hole Generator. At first, the Daagon were hostile towards them until Fugitoid holds up an Utrom signma to show that they are in league with the Utrom. They sought to pass a test to get the second piece, but failed due to interference from Armaggon. However, when Lord Dregg arrived to back up his captured mercenary, the Turtles proved themselves by defending the Supreme Ruler and her people. As a reward, the Daagon's gave them their fragment of the Black Hole Generator, with hopes that-contrary to previous belief-it could be destroyed.\n"}
{"id": "41850263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41850263", "title": "List of cemeteries in Florida", "text": "List of cemeteries in Florida\n\nThis is a list of cemeteries in Florida.\n\nEditWatch this page\n\n"}
{"id": "38279128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38279128", "title": "List of victims of the Bazar de la Charité fire", "text": "List of victims of the Bazar de la Charité fire\n\nThe following people died in the Bazar de la Charité fire of 4 May 1897.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35420678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35420678", "title": "Martyrdom in Iran", "text": "Martyrdom in Iran\n\nThe concept of martyrdom is understood in the Western world as facing persecution and giving of one's life for a set of beliefs, most often religious beliefs. The definition of martyrdom is expanded in Iran, where martyrs are greatly revered, including martyrs from the distant past as well as martyrs from the modern age. In Iran, Shia Islam is the majority religion, at 89% of the estimated 79 million inhabitants, and is a very important part of public and political life. The Shia concept of Martyrdom has been shaped by the deaths of the early martyrs of the Shia faith, Ali and Husayn ibn Ali, and Iranian society and government have further shaped the understanding of martyrdom in the modern age. The importance of Martyrdom in Shi'a Islam has brought about the existence of a type of \"cult of martyrdom\" in Iranian society.\n\nAfter the death of the prophet Mohammad in the year 632, a disagreement arose between the followers of Mohammad as to who should be appointed as the prophets successor. The Muslims were split between two groups, those who supported Abu Bakr, a companion of the prophet, and those who supported Ali, the prophet's cousin and son-in law. Ultimately, Abu Bakr became the first caliph, and his followers are today known as Sunni Muslims. The followers of Ali are known as Shia Muslims. Abu Bakr served for two years, and appointed Umar as his successor in 634. Umar served as caliph for ten years, during which he was responsible for the rapid spread of Islam through military and territorial gains. Upon his death in 644, a council of Islamic leaders elected a new Caliph, Uthman ibn Affan, of the Umayyad family. However, in 656 supporters of Ali, who believed that a descendant of the prophet should lead the Muslim community, assassinated Uthman and installed Ali as the fourth caliph. Ali's reign was marred by numerous violent struggles between his supporters and the supporters of Muawiyah I, a relative of Uthman and the governor of Syria. When Ali was murdered in the year 661 by a supporter of Muawiyah, he became the first martyr of the Shia faith. Ali had two sons, Hasan ibn Ali and Husayn, who the Shia believe continued their father's struggle in different ways. Hasan renounced his right to the caliphate in a compromise with Mu'awiya, which the Shi'a view as Hasan's rational recognition of his own constraints at the time, but Husayn sought to restore the caliphate to the family of Ali by military means. When Muawiyah died in the 680 and his son Yazid I assumed the caliphate, Husayn renewed his efforts to regain the caliphate. On the advice of supporters in Kufa, a supposed stronghold of Shia support, Husayn and a small numbers of his family and supporters traveled to Kufa, camping out in nearby Karbala. However, the governor of Kufa was aware of Husayn's presence and sent close to 4000 troops to Karbala. After several days of failed negotiations, as Husayn refused to recognize Yazid as caliph, the governor's soldiers massacred Husayn and 72 of his men. This massacre, which occurred on the 10th day of the month of Muharram, elevated the martyrdom of Husayn to almost mythical levels in Shia belief.\n\nThe Iranian concentration on the Martyrs of the past, especially the Imam Husayn, is evident during the Month of Muharram. The first ten days of this month are filled with public processions and demonstrations that recall the suffering of Husayn. These demonstrations have been occurring for hundreds of years. The explorer Thomas Herbert reported on his travels to the area now known as Iran in 1650, and gave this description of the events of Muharram: \"I haue seene them nine seuer-all days in great multitudes, in the streets all together crying out Hussan Hussan.\"\nDuring these ten days, mourners reenact the events at Karbala and pay respect to Husayn and several of his companions and family members who were also martyred.\n\nIn Iran today, those who died in the revolution and the soldiers who died in the Iran/Iraq War are also considered martyrs. These modern-day martyrs are also treated with great respect after their deaths. The special treatment of martyrs begins during the burial, as martyrs have special burial rites and the graves are well maintained, surrounded by Islamic flags, shady plants, framed pictures of the deceased, and beautiful carvings of Quranic verses. Graveyards that hold the bodies of martyrs have taken on the characteristics of a public park, with families gathering to have picnics by the graves of their loved ones while listening to hired performers play music, recite poetry, or read verses from the Quran. The largest of these graveyards is the Behesht-e Zahra, where there is even a theater that plays dramatic reenactments of battles from the war. The state does a lot to remind the public of the sacrifices of the dead even beyond the graveyard. After the Iran/Iraq war, many street names and school names were changed to the names of martyrs, and these names remain even today. Portraits of deceased soldiers are included in murals that line the streets, and pictures of martyrs hang from the walls in local mosques. Martyrs museums can be found in most major Iranian cities, and there are even some camps where children of martyrs from the Iran/Iraq war can go to learn about the sacrifices of their fathers and sing songs from the revolution. Additionally, the themes of martyrdom are evident in children's textbooks from a very young age, with as much as 10 percent of the texts depicting themes of death and martyrdom.\n\nWhile the loss of a loved one is clearly a tragic and distressing event for a family, the families of martyrs in Iran were well taken care of. Having a martyr in the family meant immediate and permanent social mobility for many families. It was a mark of respect to have lost a son in the war, and the public displays honoring martyrs kept the memory of a family's loss alive in the community. Even beyond the social support of the community, the families of martyrs received certain tangible benefits. A large percentage of spots in many schools were reserved for the children of martyrs and having a martyr in the family gave a job applicant an edge against other applicants. Families of war martyrs were given certificates of martyrdom at the event of their child's death which gave them discounts for groceries and clothes. Societies were set up for the sole purpose of helping the families martyrs or the \"living martyrs\" who were injured during the Iran/Iraq War. However, some families complained, especially later in the Iran/Iraq War, that their sacrifices were being increasingly ignored, and donations meant for martyrs' families were decreasing.\n\nThe concept of martyrdom in Iranian society has played an important role in the major political conflicts of the past century. During the Iranian Revolution of 1979, revolutionary leaders such as Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini (link) reinterpreted the events of Karbala as a stand against oppression, using this narrative to strengthen the resolve of the people against Iran's leader at the time, Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. Ayatollah Khomeini referred to Karbala and martyrdom many times in his speeches, most notably in the speech given on the eve of the Shah's departure from Iran \"[Husayn] taught us that if a tyrant rules despotically over the Muslims in any age, we must rise up against him.\" Khomeini labeled the Shah as \"the Yazid of our time,\" referring to the caliph of Husayn's time whose soldiers were responsible for the Karbala massacre. Popular slogans also reflected the importance of symbols of martyrdom, such as the slogan often seen on banners: \"every land is Karbala, every month is Muharram, every day is Ashura.\" The revolutionaries therefore considered those who died at the hands of the Shah's secret police to be martyrs, especially those killed during the Black Friday Massacre (link), a clash between government troops and peaceful protestors that led to the deaths of around 100 people. The willingness of the revolutionaries to die for their cause in the name of martyrdom was a powerful tool in overthrowing the Shah. Major clashes with police would often occur in a 40-day cycle, as Iranian tradition demanded 40 days of mourning ending with public memorial processions for the deceased. The memorial processions of the martyrs of the revolution would thus turn into protest marches that led to more clashes with police and more deaths, starting the cycle over again and increasing the number of participants and therefore the strength of the revolution. Additionally, individuals participating in these protest marches would sometimes wear white burial cloths during the march to signify their willingness to die as martyrs for the cause. The symbolism of martyrdom provided a rallying point for the revolution and connected the events of the time with one of the most important historical narratives in Iranian culture, the massacre of Karbala and the martyrdom of Husayn.\n\nThe definition of a martyr broadened further during the Iran–Iraq War from 1980 to 1988. The extremely costly and destructive war between a Sunni-controlled country (Iraq) and a Shi'a-controlled country (Iran) had several parallels with the events at Karbala, which led to further exploitation of the Iranian reverence for martyrdom. Saddam Hussein's Iraq was seen as the Sunni aggressor against the Shia people and therefore took on the role of the new Yazid in Iranian political discourse. Iranian leaders strongly emphasized the similarities between Karbala and the war with Iraq in order to retain public support for the war and keep the flow of volunteer soldiers steady. The death toll was extraordinarily high, with over a half a million dead on the Iranian side alone. To encourage volunteers, religious leaders broadened the definition of a martyr, announcing that all fatalities of the war were to be considered martyrs for the country, and therefore for Islam. Even Non-Muslim Iranian soldiers who sacrificed themselves in the line of duty were celebrated by the clerical regime. For example, Mehrdad Nahravand, a Zoroastrian Air Force pilot from the city of Gorgan, who deliberately crashed his F-4 jet into a column of Iraqi Tanks after being shot down, was lauded as a 'martyr' despite his religion and statues of him were erected in his hometown. Similar was the case of Ardeshir Esfandpour, a Zoroastrian Helicopter pilot from the city of Mianeh who after being shot down behind enemy lines in a battle near Ilam, deliberately called in an airstrike on his position on being captured by the Iraqis. Or Hoshang Nowshirwanian, a poor Zoroastrian carpenter from the city of Yazd, who was conscripted into a Sapper battalion and single-handedly attacked an Iraqi Tank in order to save his commanding officer, for which the city council of Yazd commissioned a street name for him Even those who did not die in battle but were wounded were called living martyrs- however this position did not bring as much social mobility as the families of those who died. Additionally, Iranian leaders would manufacture parallels between the war and the events at Karbala. In one memorable example, Iranian state television reported seventy-two deaths in a particularly bloody bombing in Iran. While in reality the death toll was higher, this fabricated number matched the number of Husayn's followers who were martyred in Karbala. Battles were named Karbala Two, Three, and so on. Actors were hired to play the role of the Hidden Imam before dangerous battles, calling out to the soldiers to participate in suicide missions. The promise of immediate entrance to heaven for martyrs was a key point of emphasis for Iranian leaders. In speeches, religious officials often repeated the promise of seventy-two virgins, and young men were given keys to wear around their necks that supposedly granted them instant access to heaven upon death. Slogans on the soldiers' shirts read \"Imam Khomeini has given me special permission to enter Heaven.\" 47 For those martyred in the war who were unmarried, wedding tables were set up above their graves, a tradition that came from the death of Qassim, a companion of Husayn at Karbala who was killed just before his wedding and whose body was placed in the tent where he was intended to be married. This emphasis on life after death and the comparisons to Hussein's martyrdom, one of the most important figures in Shi'a Islam, provided the Iranian state with volunteers for their human wave attacks, where young men would attack the fronts with little or no protection. Often martyrdom meant suicide missions on the battlefield, such as the famous example of the 13-year-old boy Mohammed Hossein Fahmideh who strapped explosives to his body and ran under an Iraqi tank. Such actions were widely publicized and praised as martyrdom.\n\nFollowing the re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2009, (It was a USA and Isreal Plot),protests concerning the validity of the vote and the possibility of voter-fraud broke out that led to thousands of arrests and close to a hundred deaths. During these protests, which became known as the Iranian Green Movement, the theme of martyrdom was reclaimed by anti-government protestors as a form of \"secular martyrdom.\" Activists in the 2009 green revolution began calling those killed during protests \"martyrs.\" One important example is Neda Agha-Soltan a young student who was shot to death during a protest. A video of her death spread throughout the world, and her image became a symbol of resistance used to gain international political support. The fact that her name, Neda, means voice or calling in Persian, was also important, because it represented a call to martyrdom for the cause.\n"}
{"id": "49780148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49780148", "title": "MatC family", "text": "MatC family\n\nThe Malonate Uptake (MatC) family (TC# 2.A.101) is a constituent of the ion transporter (IT) superfamily. It consists of proteins from Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria (e.g., Xanthomonas, Rhizobium and Streptomyces species), simple eukaryotes (e.g., \"Chlamydomonas reinhardtii\") and archaea (e.g., \"Methanococcus jannaschii\"). The proteins are of about 450 amino acyl residues in length with 12-14 putative transmembrane segments (TMSs). Closest functionally-characterized homologues are in the DASS (TC #2.A.47) family. One member of this family is a putative malonate transporter (MatC of \"Rhizobium leguminosarum\" bv \"trifolii\", TC# 2.A.101.1.2).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20677316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20677316", "title": "Neural top–down control of physiology", "text": "Neural top–down control of physiology\n\nNeural top–down control of physiology concerns the direct regulation by the brain of physiological functions (in addition to smooth muscle and glandular ones). Cellular functions include the immune system’s production of T-lymphocytes and antibodies, and nonimmune related homeostatic functions such as liver gluconeogenesis, sodium reabsorption, osmoregulation, and brown adipose tissue nonshivering thermogenesis. This regulation occurs through the sympathetic and parasympathetic system (the autonomic nervous system), and their direct innervation of body organs and tissues that starts in the brainstem. There is also a noninnervation hormonal control through the hypothalamus and pituitary (HPA). These lower brain areas are under control of cerebral cortex ones. Such cortical regulation differs between its left and right sides. Pavlovian conditioning shows that brain control over basic cell level physiological function can be learnt.\n\nSympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems and the hypothalamus are regulated by the higher brain. Through them, the higher cerebral cortex areas can control the immune system, and the body’s homeostatic and stress physiology. Areas doing this include the insular cortex, the orbital, and the medial prefrontal cortices. These cerebral areas also control smooth muscle and glandular physiological processes through the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system including blood circulation, urogenital, gastrointestinal functions, pancreatic gut secretions, respiration, coughing, vomiting, piloerection, pupil dilation, lacrimation and salivation.\n\nThe sympathetic nervous system is predominantly controlled by the right side of the brain (focused upon the insular cortex), while the left side predominantly controls the parasympathetic nervous system. The cerebral cortex in rodents shows lateral specialization in its regulation of immunity with immunosuppression being controlled by the right hemisphere, and immunopotention by the left one. Humans show similar lateral specialized control of the immune system from the evidence of strokes, surgery to control epilepsy, and the application of TMS.\n\nThe higher brain top down control of physiology is mediated by the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems in the brainstem, and the hypothalamus. The sympathetic nervous system arises in brainstem nuclei that project down into intermediolateral columns of thoracolumbar spinal cord neurons in spinal segments T1–L2. The parasympathetic nervous system in the motor nuclei of cranial nerves III, VII, IX, (control over the pupil and salivary glands) and X (vagus –many functions including immunity) and sacral spinal segments (gastrointestinal and urogenital systems). Another control occurs through top down control by the medial areas of the prefrontal cortex. upon the hypothalamus which has a nonnerve control of the body through hormonal secretions of the pituitary.\n\nThe brain controls immunity both indirectly through HPA glucocorticoid secretions from the pituitary, and by various direct innervations.\n\n\nThe liver receives both sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system innervation. \n\n\nThe brains of animals can anticipatorily learn to control cell level physiology such as immunity through Pavlovian conditioning. In this conditioning, a neutral stimulus saccharin is paired in a drink with an agent, cyclophosphamide, that produces an unconditioned response (immunosuppression). After learning this pairing, the taste of saccharin by itself through neural top down control created immunosuppression, as a new conditioned response. This work was originally done on rats, however, the same conditioning can also occur in humans. The conditioned response happens in the brain with the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus providing the output pathway to the immune system, the amygdala, the input of visceral information, and the insular cortex acquires and creates the conditioned response. \nThe production of different components of the immune system can be controlled as conditioned responses: \nNonimmune functions can also be conditioned:\n\n"}
{"id": "12830568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12830568", "title": "Peter Campbell (Rangers footballer)", "text": "Peter Campbell (Rangers footballer)\n\nPeter Campbell (born late 1850s in Rhu in Argyll; died January 1883) was a Scottish footballer, who was one of the four founding members of Rangers Football Club. He made 24 Scottish Cup appearances for Rangers and scored 15 goals.\n\nAlong with fellow founding members Peter McNeil, Moses McNeil and William McBeath, Campbell played in Rangers' first ever match against Callander F.C. at \"Flesher's Haugh\", Glasgow Green in 1872. He continued to play for Rangers until 1879, helping the club to the Scottish Cup finals of 1877 and 1879. After his career at Ibrox, he played briefly for English club Blackburn Rovers for the 1879-80 season before retiring from football.\n\nOn 22 February 2010 Peter Campbell was inducted into the Rangers Hall of Fame.\n\nHe also represented the Scotland national team, playing twice against Wales in 1878 and in 1879, scoring in both.\n\nHe died from drowning after his ship \"Saint Columba\" sank in the Bay of Biscay during a storm as it ferried coal from south Wales to Bombay in 1883.\n\n"}
{"id": "8038191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8038191", "title": "Preservation breeding", "text": "Preservation breeding\n\nPreservation breeding is an attempt by many animal breeders to preserve bloodlines of animals, either of a rare breed, or of rare pedigrees within a breed. One purpose of preservation breeding is to protect genetic diversity within a species, another is to preserve valuable genetic traits that may not be popular or in fashion in the present, but may be of great value in the future. Preservation breeding can also mean the breeding of animals to populate or repopulate an area where a species previously existed. It can also mean the breeding of species that are healthy and releasing the healthy individuals into a population that is defective or infected for the purpose of strengthening the overall health of the population.\n\n"}
{"id": "3577458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3577458", "title": "Pyramid Head", "text": "Pyramid Head\n\nPyramid Head, also known as , \"Red Pyramid\", and , is a fictional character from the \"Silent Hill\" series of survival horror video games published by Konami.\n\nIntroduced in the 2001 installment \"Silent Hill 2\", he is the main antagonist and he stalks James Sunderland, the primary player character, who comes to the town of Silent Hill after receiving a letter from his deceased wife, Mary. The \"Silent Hill\" series, particularly the second installment, frequently utilizes psychology and symbolism: Pyramid Head represents James' wish to be punished for Mary's death. Masahiro Ito, the designer of \"Silent Hill 2\"s monsters, created him because he wanted \"a monster with a hidden face\". Known for his large triangular head, Pyramid Head lacks a voice, and his appearance stems from the town's past as a place of execution.\n\nPyramid Head has since appeared in other media in and outside the \"Silent Hill\" media franchise. Positively received in \"Silent Hill 2\" for his role as an element of James' psyche, he has been cited by reviewers as an iconic villain of the series and part of \"Silent Hill 2\"s appeal.\n\nIto wanted to create \"a monster with a hidden face\", but became unhappy with his designs, which resembled humans wearing masks. He then drew a monster with a pyramid-shaped head. According to Ito, the triangle's sharp right and acute angles suggest the possibility of pain. Of the creatures that appear in \"Silent Hill 2\", only Pyramid Head features an \"overtly masculine\" appearance. He resembles a pale, muscular man covered with a white, blood-soaked robe reminiscent of a butcher's smock. He does not speak, but grunts and moans painfully. His most outstanding feature is his large red, triangular head. His weapons consist of the deadly and heavy Great Knife, which the player can find and use for the rest of the game, and later a spear.\n\nAccording to Konami's \"Lost Memories\", his appearance was a variation of the outfits of the executioners from the fictional history of the town. They wore red hoods and ceremonial robes to make themselves similar to Valtiel, a monster who appears in \"Silent Hill 3\". Like Valtiel, Pyramid Head dresses in gloves and stitched cloth and pursues the game's main protagonist. According to \"Silent Hill 2\"s character designer Takayoshi Sato, he appears as a \"distorted memory of the executioners\" and of the town's past as a place of execution.\n\nChristophe Gans, the director of the film adaptation of \"Silent Hill\", suggested that Pyramid Head \"was one of the executioners in the original history of the town\" and \"there is not one particular or exclusive manifestation of him as an entity.\"\n\nIn \"Silent Hill 2\", after receiving a letter from his deceased wife, Mary, and arriving in the foggy town of Silent Hill to search for her, the game's protagonist and primary player character, James Sunderland, encounters Pyramid Head several times over the course of the game. He first appears from behind a gate, making no attempt to attack James. Later, in an apartment, James walks in on Pyramid Head sexually abusing and then killing two Mannequins—creatures made of two sets of feminine hips and legs. Terrified, James hides in a closet and watches while Pyramid Head stands directly outside of it before leaving. When James asks another character, Eddie, about the monster, Eddie denies knowing about Pyramid Head. Later, near a flooded stairway, James witnesses Pyramid Head engaged in another act of sexual torment with a monster, and Pyramid Head attempts to kill him, causing a boss fight. After a few minutes, sirens sound in the distance and Pyramid Head descends the stairway and disappears. James does not meet him again until in Brookhaven Hospital, where Pyramid Head knocks him through a safety railing and he falls, sustaining injuries. Pyramid Head does not pursue him or continue the attack. Later, he stalks James' companion Maria, who closely resembles his wife Mary, through a lengthy corridor. As James flees into an elevator, the doors shut before she can join him. He struggles to open the doors to save her, but Pyramid Head kills her. However, in the labyrinth beneath Toluca Prison, James finds her alive and unharmed in a locked cell. Before trying to seduce him, she reminisces about a trip that only he and Mary took to a hotel in Silent Hill. He leaves, promising to find a way to free her, and discovers that Pyramid Head walks a corridor nearby, now carrying a spear. Afterwards, James reaches Maria's side of the cell, but finds her dead. Pyramid Head makes his final appearance just before the final boss, where two Pyramid Heads take part in the encounter. They kill Maria yet again and, after pursuing James around the room for a while, both commit suicide.\n\nPyramid Head, under the new moniker \"Bogeyman\", makes a significant appearance in 2008 installment \"Silent Hill Homecoming\", but his role is limited to non-interactive scenes, appearing only twice to the game's main protagonist Alex Shepherd (once in the Grand Hotel in Silent Hill and, much later, in a church, where he executes Alex's father by splitting him in half). His last appearance is in a possible ending to the game: Alex wakes up in a wheelchair as two Pyramid Heads appear, each with part of a helmet, which they use to turn Alex into one of them. After this ending is played, the player obtains the Bogeyman's costume for Alex to wear. Mindful of Pyramid Head's role in \"Silent Hill 2\", the developers chose to include him as \"the embodiment of a myth [that] parents started to keep the children out of trouble\" and \"the accretion of the activities going on in the town of Shepherd’s Glen.\"\n\nPyramid Head appears as a boss in the 2007 first-person shooter \"\", as well as \"\", but with a composite design with the Butcher, and as a super-deformed selectable character in the 2008 Nintendo DS title \"New International Track & Field\", an installment of the \"Track & Field\" series and another spin-off \"Krazy Kart Racing\" alongside Robbie the Rabbit. The 2007 game \"Silent Hill Origins\" also included a similar monster named \"The Butcher\", whom the protagonist occasionally encounters killing other monsters (unlike other versions of Pyramid Head, the Butcher can and must be fought and killed in combat) and a painting of Pyramid Head is seen in the burning house of Alessa. Pyramid Head appears in 2012 installment \"\", playing more prominent role in main story and in \"Surprise!\" ending, along with various characters from the franchise. Pyramid Head's most recent appearance was in 2012's \"\", where he is a monster that can spawn randomly to fight the player. Pyramid Head also appeared as a costume for the Playstation Home.\n\nOn a Super Bomberman R update released on June 29, 2017, Pyramid Head appears as a cameo as Pyramid Bomber, alongside Simon Belmont from the Castlevania series, and Gradius's Vic Viper.\n\nPyramid Head makes an appearance in the 2006 film adaptation of \"Silent Hill\" as \"Red Pyramid\", and is portrayed by Roberto Campanella. In the film, the psyches of the female characters shaped the character's physical appearance. Gans claimed that replicating the character's head exactly and having the actor move while wearing it proved to be impractical; he noted that, despite the name, Pyramid Head actually wore \"a basin\" instead of a triangle-shaped head. Red Pyramid's sword and head were constructed out of lightweight material painted to appear heavy. For the role, Campanella wore a \"five-part prosthetic\"; it took two-and-a-half to three hours to get him into costume and make-up. His boots had a hidden sole which made him just under tall. Patrick Tatopoulos, who worked on the make-up effects and monsters, enjoyed the project of designing the character. According to him, Red Pyramid serves as a symbol of the town's darkness and harbinger of its changed character. Gans considered the monsters of the film \"a mockery of human beings\", and commented: \"The real monsters are the people, the cultists who tortured Alessa. When I approached the film, I knew that it was impossible to represent the monsters as simply beasts that jump on you.\"\n\nIn the 2012 film \"\", the Pyramid Head, once more portrayed by Roberto Campanella, is both a monster and a guardian. More than once, it saves Sharon from the forces of Silent Hill. This is explained by its loyalty to Alessa: since Heather is the good half of Alessa's soul, it sees them as the same being and is thus bound to protect both from harm. Pyramid Head is also seen controlling the carousel where Heather and Alessa face off against each other, then it kills the cult leader Claudia Wolf after the amulet shows her inner, monstrous nature.\n\nHe also makes a cameo appearance in the 2008 \"Silent Hill\" comic book \"Sinner's Reward\", published by IDW Publishing. The writer, Tom Waltz, later said he regretted the cameo, which only functioned as fan service. To him, Pyramid Head is a psychological construct created for James; however, he stated that: \"At the same time, I don't think that ruined the comic. Some people really liked it. To some people, Pyramid Head should be in all the stories because they do like him.\" Additionally, the character was portrayed from October 2 to 31, 2009, in the haunted attraction Sinister Pointe, based on \"Silent Hill\", in Orange County, California, United States.\n\nThe \"Silent Hill\" series uses symbolism and psychology; the town of Silent Hill draws upon the psyche of its visitors, ultimately creating an \"otherworld,\" a twisting of reality that manifests delusions and elements of their subconscious minds, varying from character to character. Specifically, in the case of \"Silent Hill 2\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s primary player character James Sunderland, the version of the town he explores is influenced by him. Many of the monsters that roam the town symbolize his guilt, wish for punishment, for his wife's three-year-long illness, and cease to exist after James comes to terms with the fact that he killed his wife Mary, partially to end her suffering and partially out of resentment and frustration. James knew she had a terminal illness, which has been speculated to be cancer, and he often read medical textbooks, searching for something to help her. During her last days alive, she became physically repulsive as a result of the illness and treated James abusively, ordering him to leave one moment and begging him to comfort her the next. The knowledge of her terminal illness caused her to become angry and to hurt her loved ones, particularly James, and it pained him to visit her in the hospital. Pyramid Head functions as an executioner of Maria, a delusion of James' who strongly resembles Mary. Through Maria's repeated deaths, Pyramid Head reminds James of Mary's death and causes him to experience guilt and suffering. His appearance as an executioner stems from a picture that James saw while visiting the town three years ago with Mary.\n\nReviewers have suggested various interpretations. According to Christina González of \"The Escapist\", Pyramid Head acts as \"judgement personified, a dark butcher,\" and \"James' masochistic delusion\" which punishes him for Mary's death. Ken Gagne of \"Computerworld\" suggested that the monster \"represents James' anger and guilt.\" A critic for IGN, Jesse Schedeen, considered Pyramid Head's role throughout the \"Silent Hill\" series to be \"a manifestation of a person's guilt\", commenting: \"Pyramid Head is just there to help you serve your penance in the most painful and grotesque way possible.\"\n\nCritical reaction to Pyramid Head has been favorable because of his distinctive appearance and role as an element of James' psyche. Critics cite him as an iconic villain of the \"Silent Hill\" series, a favorite among fans, and part of the appeal of \"Silent Hill 2\". GameSpot compared Pyramid Head's appearance to Leatherface, the main antagonist of \"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre\" series of slasher films, and found him the most terrifying monster in \"Silent Hill 2\". \"Computerworld\" named Pyramid Head as one of the most terrifying villains in computer and video games. GamesRadar felt that the scene in which he rapes the two other monsters was unsettling, since the subject of rape is not often tackled in video games, and disliked the final battle with him because of how anti-climactic it was, in comparison with his role throughout the rest of the game.\n\nGameDaily ranked Pyramid Head first on their 2008 list of the scariest video game monsters. GamesRadar listed him as one of the 25 best new characters of the decade and ranked him second on its 2009 list of the scariest video game villains, calling him the \"most horrifying character ever to have a cult following\". In a 2009 retrospective on the survival horror genre, IGN noted that \"Silent Hill 2\" incorporated \"a 'stalker' element similar to \"Clock Tower\" and \"\",\" and wrote: \"To this day, Pyramid Head is remembered as one of gaming's most frightening villains.\" PlayStation Universe ranked him as the first on their 2009 list of the scariest monster \"to infest a Sony platform\", also noting his \"prolific reputation as one of video game’s most fearsome monsters.\" In 2010, Pyramid Head as named as the scariest character in video game history by Joystick Division, who added that \"being chased by him in \"Silent Hill 2\" ranks with all of the scariest moments in video gaming history.\" UGO.com ranked him as number one on their 2011 list of the scariest characters in video games, commenting he is \"too mainstream to be all that scary, except he's still really super scary.\" In 2012, \"PlayStation Official Magazine\" included him on their lists of the biggest freaks and scariest characters in the PlayStation games, commenting: \"Ol’ Metal Top is easily the best thing about \"Silent Hill\" – and maybe even survival horror in general – completely encapsulating that intoxicating dread of knowing that it’s not \"if\" you’ll fight him, but \"when\".\" That same year, \"FHM\" included him on their list of ten scariest game characters ever; on the list of the \"coolest\" video game villains by \"Complex\", Pyramid Head placed as 15th. GamesRadar too praised Pyramid Head's role as an antagonist, putting him in their 2013 list of the best villains in video game history at number 18.\n\nHis appearances outside \"Silent Hill 2\" have received mixed critical reaction. Critics generally agreed that Pyramid Head's appearance in \"Homecoming\" struck them as fan service, though Chris Hudak of Game Revolution called it \"damned effectively-employed.\" Film critics commented on his role in the film adaption, with several finding him disturbing. DVD Reviews praised Campanella's portrayal of Pyramid Head and another monster, writing: \"These are without a doubt some of the most striking bogeymen that I have seen on screen in a long time.\" His appearance in \"New International Track & Field\" received mixed critical reaction. GameDaily disliked it, finding it awkward that a character like Pyramid Head was competing in sporting events with characters like Frogger and Sparkster, while \"The Escapist\" called it enjoyable and \"hilarious\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1166241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1166241", "title": "Rupture of membranes", "text": "Rupture of membranes\n\nRupture of membranes (ROM) or amniorrhexis is a term used during pregnancy to describe a rupture of the amniotic sac. Normally, it occurs spontaneously at full term either during or at the beginning of labor. Rupture of the membranes is known colloquially as \"breaking the water\" or as one's \"water breaking\". A premature rupture of membranes (PROM) is a rupture of the amnion that occurs prior to the onset of labor.\n\nSometimes, a child is born with no rupture of the amniotic sac (no rupture of membranes).\n\nWhen the amniotic sac ruptures, production of prostaglandins increases and the cushioning between the fetus and uterus is decreased, both of which are processes that increase the frequency and intensity of contractions.\n\nOn occasion, with the rupture of membranes, particularly if the head is not engaged, the umbilical cord may prolapse. A cord prolapse is an obstetrical emergency, as the descending head may block fetal-placental circulation.\n\nOnce the membranes are ruptured, bacteria may ascend and could lead to amnionitis and fetal infection.\n\n\nDetection of rupture of membranes mainly include:\n\n"}
{"id": "52374403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52374403", "title": "Semicompatibilism", "text": "Semicompatibilism\n\nSemicompatibilism is the view that causal determinism is compatible with moral responsibility, while making no assertions about the truth of determinism or free will. The term was coined by John Martin Fischer.\nProminent semicompatibilists include Sam Harris, Daniel Dennett, and Harry Frankfurt.\n\nCriticisms of this view include the principle of alternative possibilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "2924868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2924868", "title": "Sheila White (actress)", "text": "Sheila White (actress)\n\nSheila Susan White (18 October 1948 – 7 September 2018) was an English film, television and stage actress.\n\nSheila White was born in London. She began her career at the age of twelve as a member of Terry's Juveniles in the pantomime \"Cinderella\" at the \"Golders Green Hippodrome\", starring Arthur Askey. This led to three years in the London production of \"The Sound of Music\" at the Palace Theatre, playing firstly Brigitta and then Louisa von Trapp. She then became a student at the Corona Stage School in Hammersmith, West London. \n\nSheila made her television debut at the age of sixteen in \"Z-Cars\" with Malcolm McDowell. A theatre tour of \"Counter Crime\" followed, then the musical tour of \"The Roar of the Greasepaint—the Smell of the Crowd\" starring Norman Wisdom and Willoughby Goddard, written by Leslie Bricusse and Anthony Newley in which she played one of the urchins alongside Elaine Paige, with choreography by Gillian Lynne. Sheila's major break came playing the part of Eileen in the musical \"On The Level\" at the Saville Theatre. She was taken out of the chorus and the song \"Bleep – Bleep\" was written especially for her as a solo feature. This led to her being cast as Bet, Nancy's best friend in Lionel Bart's film musical \"Oliver!\" (1968). She accompanied Shani Wallis as Nancy and Mark Lester as Oliver in the songs \"It's a Fine Life\" and \"I'd Do Anything\".\n\nFollowing her success in \"Oliver!\", she achieved considerable fame in France as a singer, releasing several records and making many highly successful television appearances. She also starred in the French language film \"Papa Les Petits Bateaux\" (\"Papa the Little Boats\", 1971) directed by Nelly Kaplan.\n\nIn 1969 and 1970, Sheila starred opposite Rodney Bewes in the first two series of the sitcom \"Dear Mother...Love Albert\". She received glowing reviews for her memorable performance as Messalina, the third wife of the Emperor Claudius (Derek Jacobi) in the BBC classic serial \"I, Claudius\" (1976), and in \"EastEnders\" she played Carol Hanley, the biological mother of Sharon Watts (Letitia Dean).\n\nHer many other television credits include the TV musical \"Pickwick\" for the BBC in 1969, Keren Daniel in \"Poldark\" for BBC TV, Annie Miller in \"The Brotherhood – Pre-Raphaelites – Aka Love School\" for the BBC directed by Piers Haggard. Dixie, the female lead in the comedy series \"Don't Rock the Boat\" for Thames Television directed by Mark Stuart, Moyra Sheffield in \"Framed\" for ITV, written by \"Lynda La Plante\", Sharon Nightingale in the series 1 episode \"Monday Night Fever\" of \"Minder\", Mildred in \"ITV Saturday Night Theatre – The Funeral of Queen Victoria\", directed by Tania Leven, \"Whizzkid's Guide\" a children's comedy series for Anglia Television, and Faith in the series \"Gone To Seed\". Musical appearances on television included the variety series \"The Songwriters\", several Royal Variety shows, and 'The Good Old Days\" with Leonard Sachs. She made her final TV appearance in 2000 in an episode of the comedy series \"A Many Splintered Thing\" with Alan Davies.\n\nHer 1970's film appearances included the role of Rosie Noggett, sister of Timothy Lea (Robin Askwith), in all four \"Confessions\" films, \"Villain\" with Richard Burton, \"Alfie Darling\" with Joan Collins, \"Silver Dream Racer\" with David Essex, and the Walt Disney comedy \"Unidentified Flying Oddball\".\n\nSheila's extensive theatre credits as a West End leading lady included Mary Pickford in \"The Biograph Girl\" for Harold Fielding, directed by Victor Spinetti; Eileen Wells in \"On The Level\"; Young Belle in \"Little Me\"; Ruby in the London production of \"Dames at Sea\"; Samantha in \"Queen Daniella\" with Danny La Rue and Sonia Walsk; and the British production of \"They're Playing Our Song\".\n\nWhite went into semi-retirement after her marriage to (then) theatre producer Richard M. Mills in 1983. The couple had two sons, Christopher and Matthew.\n\nFollowing a long illness, Sheila White died of heart failure on 7 September 2018 at age 69.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9768093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9768093", "title": "Switch pitcher", "text": "Switch pitcher\n\nIn baseball, a switch-pitcher is an ambidextrous pitcher who is able to pitch with both the right and left hand from the pitcher's mound.\n\nFour 19th-century pitchers are known to have thrown with both hands: Tony Mullane in 1882 and in 1893, Elton Chamberlain in 1888, Larry Corcoran in 1884, and George Wheeler.\n\nGreg A. Harris was one of few major league pitchers in the modern era to pitch with both his left and his right arm, though he only did so in a single Major League game. A natural right-hander, by 1986 he could throw well enough left-handed that he felt capable of pitching with either arm in a game. Harris did not throw left-handed in a regular-season game until September 28, 1995, the penultimate game of his career. Pitching for the Montreal Expos against the Cincinnati Reds in the ninth inning, Harris retired Reggie Sanders pitching right-handed, then switched to his left hand for the next two hitters, Hal Morris and Eddie Taubensee, who were both left-handed batters. Harris walked Morris but got Taubensee to ground out. He then went back to his right hand to retire Bret Boone to end the inning.\n\nPat Venditte regularly pitches with both arms. Venditte was drafted by the New York Yankees, played for the Seattle Mariners, Toronto Blue Jays, Philadelphia Phillies, Oakland Athletics and now plays for the Los Angeles Dodgers. While with the Staten Island Yankees, the Yankees' Single-A affiliate, when he opposed switch hitter Ralph Henriquez, Venditte switched his modified glove to his left arm. (Hitters traditionally derive advantages from batting from the opposite side of the plate to the pitcher's throwing arm.) Henriquez then switched to batting left-handed, and a series of changes continued for several minutes. This prompted the PBUC (Professional Baseball Umpires Corporation) to issue a new rule about switch-pitching. In short, switch-pitchers must indicate to the umpire, batter, and any runners the hand with which they will use to pitch. The pitcher must continue using this hand for the duration of the at bat, with some exceptions for injury and the use of pinch hitters. Following this choice, batters can then select with which hand they will bat. \n\nRight-handed pitcher Yu Darvish throws with his left hand when training. He does this to keep both arms strong and balanced. He does not pitch left-handed during a game, however.\n\nIn 2003, the Atlanta Braves drafted switch pitcher Brandon Berdoll of Temple (Texas) Junior College in the 27th round. He never made it to the major leagues.\n\nIn the collegiate ranks, Matt Brunnig (Harvard class of 2006–07) was able to pitch over 85 mph left-handed and over 90 mph right-handed, but only pitched with both arms in the same game a few times. In college, he pitched more from the right side as a starter and pitched some relief as a lefty although he did start one game left-handed. When playing the outfield after a start he would typically play the position with the other arm to rest the arm he just pitched with.\n\nSwitch-throwers are commonly taught to switch-throw at a young age. For instance, Venditte's father trained him in ambidextrous throwing from the age of three and Brunnig's father taught him from age five.\n\n"}
{"id": "22287305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22287305", "title": "Tannerella forsythia", "text": "Tannerella forsythia\n\nTannerella forsythia is an anaerobic, Gram-negative bacterial species of the Cytophaga-Bacteroidetes family. It has been implicated in periodontal diseases and is a member of the red complex of periodontal pathogens. \"T. forsythia\" was previously named \"Bacteroides forsythus\" and \"Tannerella forsythensis\".\n\n\"Tannerella forsythia\" was discovered by and named after Dr. Anne Tanner who works at The Forsyth Institute located in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\n\"T. forsythia\" has been identified in atherosclerotic lesions. Lee et al. found that infecting mice with \"T. forsythia\" induced foam cell formation and accelerated the formation of atherosclerotic lesions. It has also been isolated from women with bacterial vaginosis. The presence of oral \"T. forsythia\" has been found to be associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer.\n\nList of bacterial vaginosis microbiota\n\n"}
{"id": "38707523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38707523", "title": "Taxidermy art and science", "text": "Taxidermy art and science\n\nThere have been attempts to categorise taxidermy in both artistic and scientific terms for over a century. An 1896 review of Montagu Browne’s \"Artistic and Scientific Taxidermy and Modelling\" notes that “Any work which will aid in more clearly defining the difference between the art of taxidermy and the trade of taxidermy is to be welcomed.” Stephen T. Asma suggests that natural history museums are places where the art and science of taxidermy work in tandem. He writes, “natural history museums are inherently aesthetic representations of science in particular and conceptual ideas in general.” Asma also notes the taxidermy of Carl Ethan Akeley (1864-1926). Akeley’s work is known for merging the science and artistry of taxidermy through his “revolutionary action-pose techniques.” It is suggested that, “Akeley’s artistic powers were heightened by his firsthand studies of animal anatomy and animal behaviour.”\n\nTaxidermy has contributed to the study of taxonomy. Sally Gregory Kohlstedt writes that as early as the nineteenth century, “natural history museums were the principal location for dialogues and exchange of specimens among those debating identification and connection among natural objects.” Traditional taxonomy primarily concerns \"morphology.\" More recently, advances in, “genetic and other molecular studies,” has enabled scientists to explore techniques to extract genetic information from, “ancient and historical samples.\" These methods of extracting material from preserved animals provide genetic taxonomical information; genetic taxonomy seeks to, “[measure] the genetic distance between different species.”\n\nPreserved specimens have also been used in the study of endangered and extinct species. A study conducted by Mireia Casas-Marce \"et al\"., is documented in the article “The Value of Hidden Scientific Resources: Preserved Animal Specimens from Private Collections and Small Museums.” In this study, the acquisition of extinct or rare specimens from private taxidermy collections, as well as from collections present in natural history museums are seen as important sources to the preservation of these uncommon animal materials. One technique used for the extraction of molecular and genetic material from taxidermy specimens is, “invasive sampling.” Casas-Marce, \"et al\"., regard the study of taxidermy specimens as one method, “to better understand how species change over time and, in the face of global change, how they cope with the decline and fragmentation of their populations and habitats.”\n\nFor private practice or on public display, taxidermy is considered an art. Like other arts, taxidermists try to achieve, “artistic authenticity.” In taxidermy, this is done through representing the animal to look as natural, real, or “alive” as possible. In another contemporary review of Montagu Browne’s \"Artistic and Scientific Taxidermy and Modelling\", F.A. Lucas suggests that the artistic integrity of the taxidermist relies, “not so much on the mechanical devices employed as on the artistic eye and skilled hand of the workman.” Lucas recommends using artificial materials in order to present the specimen as a representation that is true to nature:\n\n\"Now it is recognized that at least one of the objects of a public museum is to give the public glimpses of living creatures as they really appear, and it is admitted that it is better to replace such appendages as combs and wattles, or even to obscure the scales of a bird’s foot with paint, than to show the public dried, distorted and dingy effigies.\"\n\nTaxidermy or elements of taxidermy are also used in branches of bio art. Whole preserved animals or parts of animals, such as their skins, are sometimes used in this art. Bio art and traditional taxidermy can be seen as being in conflict based on artistic philosophies of authenticity and the purpose behind representation. Rikke Hansen writes, “Bio art does not simply break with notions of representation, but instead actively critiques practices of representation as they take place within science and cultural life.” Her article “Animal Skins in Contemporary Art” suggests that, “Traditional taxidermy pushes forward the belief that animals \"are\" their skin.” Hansen discusses the nature of human and animal subjectivity through taxidermy practices, using Bryndis Snaebjörnsdottir and Mark Wilson’s \"nanoq: flat out and bluesome\" (2004) as an example. Hansen describes the preserved polar bears of Snaebjörnsdottir and Wilson as, “mak[ing] explicit the way in which animal life is ‘serialized’ through the use and display of the ‘specimen’.”\n"}
{"id": "6269754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6269754", "title": "Tembandumba", "text": "Tembandumba\n\nTembandumba was a ruler of the Jagas of what is now Angola. \n\nTembandumba's mother was Mussasa, whom she rebelled against and declared herself queen. After taking power, she organized the Jaga for war by demanding that infants be killed by their mothers and their bodies pounded into ointment, which was mixed with herbs. In order to enforce this decree, she assembled the tribe and pounded her own infant son to death on a mortar and prepared the ointment. She then rubbed it on her body, declaring that it would make her invulnerable. The women of the tribe immediately imitated her actions with their own children. She eventually encountered resistance to this practice in the tribe, and had to resort to using only male infants captured in war for the ointment. \n\nTembandumba was described as being repulsive and having only one eye, having lost the other in battle. According to a 1910 European source, she would take lovers, but would kill them after a brief dalliance. She was eventually poisoned by one of her lovers. \n\n"}
{"id": "23126999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23126999", "title": "Towerkill", "text": "Towerkill\n\nTowerkill is a phenomenon in which birds are killed by antenna towers. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service estimates that between 5 and 50 million birds are killed in the U.S. each year by tower kill.\n\nThe effect on overall bird populations by towerkill may be small, but the phenomenon is of considerable concern to ornithologists, because many endangered bird species are being killed, and because so many birds are killed in such a small area of land. In at least one instance, several thousand birds were killed at a single tower in one night. Additionally, the unnatural lights on communication towers disrupt bird migration patterns in ways that are still not fully understood. At least 231 species have been affected, with neotropical migrants making up a large proportion of all species killed.\n\nThere are two mechanisms of bird death due to communications towers. The first is the \"blind kill\" where birds flying in poor visibility do not see the guy wires in time to avoid them. This is more of a threat for faster flying birds such as waterfowl or shorebirds. Slower and more agile birds, such as songbirds, are not as likely to succumb to blind collision.\n\nCommunications towers that are lighted at night for aviation safety may help reduce bird collisions caused by poor visibility, but they bring about a second, even more deadly mechanism for mortality. When there is a low cloud ceiling, hazy or foggy conditions, lights on a tower reflect off water or other particles in the air creating an illuminated area around the tower. Migrating birds lose their stellar cues for nocturnal migration in such conditions. In addition, they often lose any broad orienting perspective they might have had on the landscape. When passing the lighted area, it may be that the increased visibility around the tower becomes the strongest cue the birds have for navigation, and thus they tend to remain in the lighted space near the tower, afraid to leave. Mortality occurs when they run into the structure and its guy wires, or even other migrating birds as more and more passing birds aggregate in the relatively small, lighted space. It is important to clarify that the lights are not documented to attract birds from afar, but appear to hold birds that fly into the illuminated vicinity. Lights are required by the FCC on any tower taller than , or on shorter towers if they are near airports. In 2008, it was estimated there were roughly 125,000 lit towers in the U.S. and more than 7,000 new towers are constructed each year.\n\nResearchers at the University of Southern California reported in 2012 that red lights are worse than white lights, and switching to blinking lights can cut fatalities by half without reducing visibility by aircraft. In a 25-year study of bird mortality at the tower at Tall Timbers Research Station near Tallahassee, Florida, kills occurred nearly every night from mid-August through mid-November. Moderate numbers of migrants were killed under perfectly clear skies, but the toll increased markedly with overcast conditions. Researchers believe the attraction to lighted regions results in most towerkill, and numerous studies have been conducted to further understand the phenomena.\n\nIn May 2012, the FAA published a report which concluded that as long as the brighter flashing lights remained active, extinguishing the steady burning red lights on communication towers at night would still provide enough conspicuity for pilots, and result in significantly less avian fatalities.\n\nWind turbines represent a much smaller threat to birds, due to being much lower in number and lacking guy-wires. It is estimated wind turbines kill 10,000 to 40,000 birds a year, which is a very small number compared to communication towers, which kill 40 to 60 million a year. Overall, wind turbines cause about one-tenth of a percent of all unnatural bird deaths in the United States each year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44926663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44926663", "title": "Walter Bromley", "text": "Walter Bromley\n\nWalter Henry Bromley (c. 1774 – c. 5 May 1838) was a British military officer and reformer who a school in Halifax, Nova Scotia and did much good work among children of poorer families including, especially, indigenous Canadians. He later emigrated to South Australia where he briefly ran that new colony's first school then served for a short time as Protector of Aborigines.\n\nBromley, the eldest son of Robert and Julie Bromley, was baptised on 27 February 1775 in Keelby and grew up in rural Lancashire. He enlisted in the 23rd Regiment of Foot (better known as the Royal Welch Fusiliers) when quite young. He saw action in a number of overseas conflicts (including Nova Scotia 1808–1810), rising to the rank of captain.\nIn 1811 he returned to England and retired on half pay.\n\nIn 1813 he returned to Halifax, Nova Scotia where he founded the Royal Acadian School over the thirteen years he lived there. His school offered education for middle- and low-income families, including girls, black and immigrant children. The school included Protestants and Catholics. The school was controversial, however, as some of its biggest supporters came from the Nova Scotia elite.\n\nBromley also devoted himself to the service of the Mi'kmaq people. The Mi'kmaq were among the poor of Halifax and in the rural communities. According to historian Judith Finguard, his contribution to give public exposure to the plight of the Mi'kmaq \"particularly contributes to his historical significance.\" Finguard writes: \n\nBromley's school made a \"seminal contribution\" to the development of the education movement in Nova Scotia. Well after Bromley's departure from Nova Scotia (1825), the school continued to play a central role in the campaign for free education. It became a girls' school by the 1870s.\n\nBromley returned to England around 1825 or 1826, married twice, and had several children.\n\nBromley embarked, alone, for South Australia aboard \"Tam O'Shanter\" as part of the \"First Fleet of South Australia\", arriving in November 1836 at Kangaroo Island.\nThere \"Captain Bromley\", as he was generally called, opened a school for 24 children at Kingscote on 5 December 1836. This was not to last long however, as on 5 April 1837 he was appointed Protector of Aborigines, succeeding George Stevenson, and closed his school on 19 May 1837 and commenced his work, living among the Aborigines and learning their language. He was a poor choice for the job, \"The Register\" opined, a bad example to set younger Aborigines (but did not elaborate).\nHe was removed from the position of Protector and replaced by Dr. William Wyatt (c. 1805 – 10 June 1886).\n\nHe drowned in the River Torrens, accidentally so the inquest concluded,\n\"The Southern Australian\" felt Bromley had been treated unfairly, and had done more for the natives than Wyatt.\n\n"}
{"id": "7206276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7206276", "title": "William de Aldeburgh, 2nd Baron Aldeburgh", "text": "William de Aldeburgh, 2nd Baron Aldeburgh\n\nWilliam de Aldeburgh, 2nd Baron Aldeburgh (bef. 1358 – 20 August 1391) was a British peer, the son of William de Aldeburgh, 1st Baron Aldeburgh.\n\nBaron Aldeburgh succeeded to his father's peerage as the 2nd Baron Aldeburgh on 1 April 1388. He married Margery Sutton, but died without children, thus his barony fell into abeyance.\n"}
