{"id": "26221369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26221369", "title": "Amrutanubhav", "text": "Amrutanubhav\n\nAmrutanubhav or Amritanubhav is a composition by the Marathi saint and poet Jñāneśvar during the 13th century. It is considered to be a milestone in Marathi literature.\n\nAmrutanubhav is composed of two Marathi words \"Amrut\" (derived from Amrita which translates as immortal Elixir in Sanskrit) and \"Anubhav\" meaning experience. As a result, it literally translates to \"The elixir of experience\" or even \"the experience of elixir\" in Sanskrit/ Marathi.\n\nOn advise from his guru, Nivruttinath, Jñāneśvar created an original work to state his experiences in yoga and philosophy. Although the work did not achieve as much fame as the \"Jñāneśvari\", it is still considered as one of the most important ones in Marathi literature. This work was to be Dnyaneshwar's last as he soon announced his intention to take on the state of a \"Sanjeevan Samadhi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13459149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13459149", "title": "Arya Samaj in Uganda", "text": "Arya Samaj in Uganda\n\nArya Samaj was established in Uganda in 1908 by Pandit Purnanand. In 1929 a large building was constructed by the Samaj. The Uganda Arya Samaj was one of the most active in East Africa until the political revolution led by Idi Amin forced all the people of Indian origin to leave Uganda and the work of Arya Samaj came to an end.\n"}
{"id": "46770298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46770298", "title": "Assemblies Jehovah Shammah", "text": "Assemblies Jehovah Shammah\n\nThe Assemblies Jehovah Shammah are an Evangelical Christian network of churches that originated in India, which is still home to the great majority of them. The Evangelical publication Operation World estimates their numbers, as of 2010, at 310,000 adults and children in 910 assemblies, as their churches are generally known. Other sources estimate upwards of two thousand congregations, with a large presence in the State of Andhra Pradesh. The movement was founded in 1942 by evangelist Bakht Singh, whose theology and ecclesiology were much influenced by the Open Brethren. Although historically distinct from the Indian Brethren movement, which originated from missionary endeavours, the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah have a lot in common with it and are sometimes (but not always) considered a part of the Brethren movement worldwide.\n\nTheologically, the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah are a conservative Evangelical movement placing a great emphasis on the preaching and expounding of scripture. They are a lay movement with no ordained clergy, and each congregation is led by elders who take responsibility for the spiritual needs of those in fellowship. Assemblies Jehovah Shammah do not have a formal membership, but regard any Christian who has been baptised as a believer and attends regularly as being part of their fellowship. Holy Communion is celebrated weekly as part of a largely informal worship service, with any believer in the congregation who feels \"moved by the Holy Spirit\" offering prayers, sharing scriptures, or suggesting hymns. This period of free worship is followed by an hour-long sermon. In these matters, the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah greatly resemble the Open Brethren, but with certain adaptations to Indian culture, such as seating the congregation on mats on the floor. Unlike much of the wider Brethren movement, however, the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah have never restricted women from participating audibly in worship; until the last two decades, the great majority of Brethren assemblies around the world had a policy of reserving the \"vocal\" roles in worship to men only. Much (though not all) of the Indian Brethren movement remains very conservative and resistant to the changes that have occurred in some parts of the Brethren world in the last generation. This is one of the lines of demarcation between the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah and the older Indian Brethren movement.\n\nAlthough the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah developed independently of the Indian Brethren movement, the many similarities between the two movements mean that the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah is often considered part of the Brethren movement worldwide. It is categorized as such by the World Christian Encyclopedia. Indian Brethren theologian and historian Thottukadavil Eapen Koshy also regards them as such, as did the late Scottish Brethren missionary, Daniel Smith. In Pakistan, unlike India, the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah operate under the \"Brethren\" label and there is no line of demarcation between them and the older, missionary-founded, Brethren movement.\n\nThose who regard the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah as \"Brethren\" generally categorize them as Open Brethren, in view of their willingness to work and worship together with Christians of other denominations. Their highly centralized leadership, however, is not typical of Open Brethren, for whom complete congregational autonomy is paramount, and may be more similar to the \"connectional\" model known among the Exclusive Brethren. Although Bakht Singh taught congregational autonomy, in practice he maintained tight centralized control over the movement until his death in 2000.\n\nIf counted as part of the wider Open Brethren movement, the Assemblies Jehovah Shammah comprise some forty percent of all Brethren in India, and fifteen to twenty percent of all Brethren worldwide.\n\nAlthough Bakht Singh believed in praying for divine healing and some people attributed supernatural healings to his prayers, he was a cessationist and opposed to the Pentecostal and Charismatic movements. He believed that the so-called sign gifts, such as miracles, divine healing, and speaking in tongues were given to the early church for the specific purpose of authenticating the apostles, and \"ceased\" with the death of the last apostle. If people were healed in response to his own prayers, he believed that was a sovereign act of God, not attributable to any \"gift\" of his. Some Assemblies Jehovah Shammah have, however, embraced the Charismatic movement since his time.\n\nThe Assemblies Jehovah Shammah form a significant part of the Brethren movement in Pakistan, where Bakht Singh began preaching while it was still a part of British India. The movement has spread outside of the Indian subcontinent through Indian emigration. Some congregations may now be found in Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "14891502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14891502", "title": "Back to Godhead", "text": "Back to Godhead\n\nBack to Godhead, also known as \"BTG,\" is the main magazine of the Hare Krishna Movement. The magazine was founded by A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada in 1944. It was originally published by A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada and later by Satsvarupa dasa Goswami and Jayadvaita Swami.\n\nBack to Godhead is a monthly color magazine which covers all aspects of the philosophy and practice of Krishna consciousness as taught by Srila Prabhupada. Some recurring features include lectures by Srila Prabhupada, tours of Indian holy places, interviews with Hare Krishna devotees, Krishna conscious perspectives on issues of the day, excerpts from Vedic scriptures, and tips on practicing spiritual life in the modern age\n\n“We should always keep Krishna within our minds, for Krishna is like the sun. Where there is Krishna, Maya or ignorance cannot exist. This is the motto of our Back to Godhead magazine.”\n\nPublished in English language, the Malayam language version of \"BTG\", named \"Bhagavad Darshanam\", was launched in 2010.\n\nBTG is also available in Marathi language, named \"Jau Davachya Gavi\"... (Rishabh Tekale)\n\n"}
{"id": "2315049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315049", "title": "Badimo", "text": "Badimo\n\nBadimo (Tswana \"badimo\", literally \"ancestors\") is a name for the indigenous African Traditional Religion of Botswana. Although the CIA Factbook states that six percent of Botswanas are practitioners, in reality a great majority of Botswana follow at least some of the traditions deemed \"Badimo\" even if they are strong followers of another religion as well.\n\nThe term \"Badimo\", although usually translated as \"ancestors\" does not simply refer to people who are now dead, but rather to the \"living dead\". In the traditional African worldview, deceased ancestors continue to be present and are actively included in the daily life of individuals and tribes.\n\nBadimo originated from Batswapong ancestors and put in the hills of Tswapong. They are invisible and only heard by children and older people. They speak their own language and make violent wind sounds whenever they move. They aid people in health and can determine whether are not a person remains healthy or not with their presence. There were many cases of young boys were kidnapped and returned, knowing the full Badimo language. These children are chosen to deal with the Badimo when the join future delegations. There were traditional ceremonies and rituals held every year before the first rains to thank the ancestors for the good yields of the past year. During these rituals, Bajalwa (traditional beer) is brewed and a beast is killed, cooked, and taken to the hills where the Badimo are hidden. The delegation would leave this food and come back later to discuss with the Badimo and collect the utensils. The delegation would tell the Badimo what the community felt about their lives. If the Badimo were satisfied, they would tell the delegation what their expectations were for the community. \nThe Badimo also serve the purpose of notifying the next of kin about a death or if someone is dying.\n\nBadimo, among other traditional religions, is mixed in with the most dominant religion in Botswana, Christianity. Only a small percentage of Botswanans practices pure Christianity. Majority of Botswanans practice a form of Christianity that is influenced and mixes with traditional religious customs. It makes the religion equal to be a social and cultural aspect of their society.\nWith past population estimates made in 2014, there are approximately 2.2 million people in Botswana. Of that, there is estimated 63 percent identifying as Christian, 27 percent as \"God\", 8 percent as no religion, and 2 percent as the traditional indigenous Badimo. The majority having a dual religious practice, Christianity and traditional religious worship. While the Botswanan people met missionaries with open arms and were convinced to join this new religion at the time in a welcoming and comforting way it did not stop them from creating their own version of the new religion. For them, as a society, their religion was not only a way of life but a reflection of who they are as a people. To drop the traditional practices would mean they would give up their identity. Since they were on good terms with the new religion, it allowed them to integrate their social identity and customs to not only customize the religion but make it their own.\n\nIn most traditional religions and even modern religions, health, and faith are complimentary. This religious identity allows for a reduction in risk of HIV as well as calling for a need for further research in the field. Those who follow a religion are encouraging to practice premarital abstinence and marital fidelity as a way of HIV and AIDS prevention. There is a mentality, behind the larger groups of believers, following such safe practices that there is a societal decrease of the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. Botswana midwives practice a traditional form of delivering babies. They continuously use traditional herbs and rely heavily on worship. Religious practitioners and church healers also have the status to diagnose misfortune and physical ailments. Regardless of traditional or modern belief, citizens, including traditional midwives, doctors, and healers, all use modern medicine and technology if illnesses or other health issues seem too complicated to handle. “Traditional religious specialists may bring rain, diagnose misfortunes, or strengthen households against evil influences and witchcraft, using herbs, roots, and special medicines” Dingaka is a traditional doctor that have extensive knowledge of medicinal herbs and plants. No modern medicines can match the medicinal herbs used by Dingakas for centuries to heal and cure diseases. Dingakas also claim to have powers, such as: ordering lightning to strike people and fixing unsteady marriages. Those who wish to practice must register with the Botswana Dingaka Association.\n\nChiefs in the pre-colonial time willingly passed along their powers. This created a societal effect in terms of structure and culture. Following this was the Botswanan mentality of accepting help and finding resources beyond their traditional parameters. It explains why in health and religion why the people in Botswana are mostly open and receptive to outside help, which was not the case for many other societies at the time.\n\nBefore colonial missionaries, Botswanans worshipped Modimo, a Supreme Being. The believed that a being was responsible for creating humankind, animals, and nature. Their cosmology reflected a strong connection between people and the natural environment. One of the most important values held by Botswanans is Botho. Botho means highest respect, honor, and esteem that one holds for another human life. Members of the society are required to practice Botho. Other values in Botswanan society include democracy, development, self-reliance, and unity. There is also a strong value in Morero (consultations), to ensure peace in society. This process is at inter-personal, family, and community levels, where communities and government consult at the Kgotla.\n\nMost Botswanans believe in a heaven, hell, and resurrection in a Christian context. People expect the dead to keep interest in their descendants, as ancestral spirits. People prefer to be buried in their home villages, even if they have not lived there for a long time. Funerals are very important and expensive events.\n\n"}
{"id": "52015406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52015406", "title": "Bandhaji", "text": "Bandhaji\n\nBandhaji is a historic Jain tirtha about 35 km from Tikamgarh.\n\nThe 900 years old black colored idol of principal deity Bhagwan Ajitnatha is installed in a basement of Shri Bandhaji Atishaya Kshetra. According to historical and archeological evidences available this Kshetra seems to be more than 1500 years old.\n\nThe 7 Bhonyare (Basements) are quite famous in ‘Bundelkhand’ which are situated in ‘Pava’, ‘Deogarh’, ‘Seron’, ‘Karguvan’, ‘Bandha’, ‘Papora’ & ‘Thuvon’. It is said that these seven Basements were constructed by two brothers namely ‘Devpat’ and ‘Khevpat’. The two ancient spired temples are also constructed here which are worth seeing from the point of view of art and magnificence.\n\nThis Kshetra is quite wealthy from the point of view of archeology. The important matter related to Jainism is scattered anywhere in fields, pounds, ancient forts and in old temples. \nIt seems that this place was developed during the time of Chandel Kings and Bhonyare (Basement) constructed during the time of Muslim rulers (to keep idols safely).\n\nAt Atishaya Kshetra Bandhaji, the idol of principal deity Bhagwan Ajitnath is installed in ancient Bhonyara. It was created & reverenced in 1142 (Samvat 1199). It is black colored 2 and half feet high Padmasana idol. On both sides of this idol 2 feet high Kayotsarga idols of Bhagwan Adinath and Bhagwan Sambhavnath are installed respectively. These both idols were reverenced in 1152 (Samvat 1209). The other idols of Bhagwan Adinath, Sambhavnath & Neminath are also installed here. \nThe huge spired temple is built near Bhonyara and it is 65 feet high. This temple was constructed in dense forest. Built in 18th century, this temple is quite artistic. There is one small temple near the spired temple. The small temple was possibly a ‘Math’ in ancient times and later it was converted into small temple. Like ‘Gandhkuti’ it is quite artistic. There are 12 doors in this altar and ‘Dharmachakra’ is created in center of this temple.\n\n"}
{"id": "16924107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16924107", "title": "Bishop of Kerry", "text": "Bishop of Kerry\n\nThe Bishop of Kerry is the Ordinary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Kerry, one of the suffragan dioceses of the Archdiocese of Cashel and Emly in Ireland.\n\nThe Episcopal see changed its name from Ardfert and Aghadoe to Kerry on 20 December 1952. The bishop's seat (Cathedra) is located at the Cathedral Church Saint Mary, Killarney.\n\nThe current bishop is the Most Reverend Raymond Browne who was appointed Bishop of Kerry by Pope Francis on 2 May 2013 and received episcopal consecration at St Mary's Cathedral, Killarney on 21 July 2013.\n"}
{"id": "85122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85122", "title": "Caca (mythology)", "text": "Caca (mythology)\n\nIn ancient Roman religion and myth, Caca is the sister of Cacus, the son of Vulcan who stole cattle from Hercules during the course of his western labors. Caca betrays her brother by revealing the location of the cattle to Hercules, who had in turn stolen the cattle from Geryon. \n\nAccording to Lactantius and Servius, she was cultivated as a deity in recognition of her service to the god. \n\nIn his conceptual approach to Roman deity, Michael Lipka gives Cacus/Caca as one of the examples of divine pairs differentiated by gender but bound by kinship, as Libera was the sister of Liber and Fauna the daughter, sister, or wife of Faunus. Lipka suggests that these deities did not come into existence as pairs, but developed to provide complementary gender balance within their sphere of influence, in this case cattle-raising. \n\nDespite the lateness of the only ancient sources that mention her, Caca is probably an older Roman goddess. Servius says she had a \"sacellum\" (shrine), probably located in Rome, where sacrifices were made to her through the agency of the Vestals. She has thus been seen as a sort of \"proto-Vesta\", a fire goddess sharing in her brother's Vulcan-inherited capacity for fire-breathing.\n"}
{"id": "1306229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1306229", "title": "Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker", "text": "Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker\n\nCarl Friedrich Freiherr von Weizsäcker (28 June 1912 – 28 April 2007) was a German physicist and philosopher. He was the longest-living member of the team which performed nuclear research in Germany during the Second World War, under Werner Heisenberg's leadership. There is ongoing debate as to whether or not he and the other members of the team actively and willingly pursued the development of a nuclear bomb for Germany during this time.\n\nA member of the prominent Weizsäcker family, he was son of the diplomat Ernst von Weizsäcker, elder brother of the former German President Richard von Weizsäcker, father of the physicist and environmental researcher Ernst Ulrich von Weizsäcker and father-in-law of the former General Secretary of the World Council of Churches, Konrad Raiser.\n\nWeizsäcker made important theoretical discoveries regarding energy production in stars from nuclear fusion processes. He also did influential theoretical work on planetary formation in the early Solar System.\n\nIn his late career, he focused more on philosophical and ethical issues, and was awarded several international honors for his work in those areas.\n\nBorn in Kiel, Schleswig-Holstein, he was the grandson of Karl Hugo von Weizsäcker, the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Württemberg. His grandfather was ennobled in 1897 and raised to the hereditary nobility with the title of Baron (Freiherr) in 1916. As such, the four-year-old Carl Friedrich Weizsäcker became Baron Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker. Since 1919, noble titles have legally been considered parts of the family name.\n\nWeizsäcker was raised in Stuttgart, Basel and Copenhagen. Between 1929 and 1933 Weizsäcker studied physics, mathematics and astronomy in Berlin, Göttingen and Leipzig, supervised by and working with Heisenberg and Niels Bohr, among others. The supervisor of his doctoral thesis was Friedrich Hund.\n\nWeizsäcker's special interests as a young researcher were the nuclear processes in stars and the binding energy of atomic nuclei. Together with Hans Bethe he found a mechanism or pathway for the cyclic process of fusion in stars (Bethe–Weizsäcker process, published 1937-1939). This discovery should not be confused with his later development of the Bethe–Weizsäcker formula, or Semi-Empirical Mass Formula (SEMF), which was a theoretical formula relating the curve of nuclear binding energy, nuclear masses, and certain other nuclear properties.\n\nIn 1938, Weizsäcker developed a theory on the formation of the Solar System, based on considerations regarding the unequal share of lighter and heavier elements in the Sun and the Solar System's terrestrial planets. His views were later generally acknowledged and refined by a large number of other physicists and astronomers. According to the theory, the Sun and its planets evolved from a gas cloud made up of 99% hydrogen and helium, and 1% of heavier elements. Some 10% of the cloud remained around the Sun as an extensive atmosphere during an initial phase, and the 1% of heavier elements within this 10% of the total mass of the cloud would tally with the fraction of roughly 1% that the planets contribute to the mass of the Solar System today.\n\nThe theory also helped to explain the empirically observed regular pattern of increase in the diameters of the orbits of the planets of the Solar System, from inward to outward. This result was a natural outcome of the increasing size of \"planetary eddies\" of gas and dust farther from the centre of the early solar system.\n\nA further implication of his theory was that many stars out in the universe, with characteristics similar to the Sun, would have to be expected to possess planetary systems similar to our own.\n\nShortly after the end of the Second World War in Europe, the Russian emigre American physicist George Gamow co-authored an influential paper supporting Weizsäcker's work on planetary formation in the early solar system.\n\nAfter nuclear fission became known in early 1939 through the work of Otto Hahn and Lise Meitner, Weizsäcker (and by his own estimate, 200 other physicists) quickly recognised that nuclear weapons could potentially be built. He discussed the upsetting implications in February 1939 with philosopher friend Georg Picht.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Weizsäcker joined the German nuclear energy project, participating in efforts to construct an atomic bomb. As early as August 1939, Albert Einstein warned U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt about this research and highlighted that \"the son of the German Under-Secretary of State, von Weizsäcker, is attached to the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut in Berlin where some of the American work on uranium is now being repeated.\"\n\nAs a protégé of Werner Heisenberg, Weizsäcker was present at a crucial meeting at the Army Ordnance headquarters in Berlin on 17 September 1939, at which the German atomic weapons program was launched. Early in the war — possibly until 1942 — he hoped a successful nuclear weapons project would earn him political influence. In July 1940 he was co-author of a report to the army on the possibility of \"energy production\" from refined uranium. The report also predicted the possibility of using plutonium for the same purpose including the production of a new type of explosives. During summer 1942 Weizsäcker filed a patent on a transportable \"process to generate energy and neutrons by an explosion... e.g. a bomb\". The patent application was found in the 1990s in Moscow.\n\nHistorians have been divided as to whether Heisenberg and his team were sincerely trying to construct a nuclear weapon, or whether their failure reflected a desire not to succeed because they did not want the Nazi regime to have such a weapon. This latter view, largely based on postwar interviews with Heisenberg and Weizsäcker, was put forward by Robert Jungk in his 1957 book \"Brighter Than a Thousand Suns\". In a 1957 interview with the German weekly \"Der Spiegel\", Weizsäcker frankly admitted to the scientific ambitions of those years \"We wanted to know if chain reactions were possible. No matter what we would end up doing with our knowledge – we wanted to know.\" Only by \"divine grace\", Weizsäcker said, were they spared the temptation to build the bomb — grace, as the German war economy was unable to mobilize the necessary resources.\n\nOriginal sources about this question were not revealed until 1993, when transcripts of secretly recorded conversations among ten top German physicists, including Heisenberg and Weizsäcker, detained under Operation Epsilon at Farm Hall, near Cambridge in late 1945, were published. In the conversation after the group of detainees had listened to the BBC Radio news on dropping of the atomic bomb on 6 August 1945, Weizsäcker said: \"I believe the reason we didn't do it was because all the physicists didn't want to do it, on principle. If we had wanted Germany to win the war we would have succeeded!\"\n\nBut the \"Farm Hall Transcripts\" also revealed that Weizsäcker had taken the lead in arguing for an agreement among the scientists that they would claim that they had never wanted to develop a German nuclear weapon. This story was at least untrue to the extent that the detainees also included scientists actively engaged in eager attempts to build a nuclear bomb, namely Kurt Diebner and Walter Gerlach. Max von Laue later called this agreement \"\"die Lesart\" (the Version). Although the memorandum which the scientists drew up was drafted by Heisenberg, von Laue wrote: \"The leader in all these discussions was Weizsäcker. I did not hear any mention of any ethical point of view.\"\" It was this version of events which was given to Jungk as the basis of his book.\n\nWeizsäcker himself stated that Heisenberg, Karl Wirtz and he had a private agreement to study nuclear fission to the fullest possible in order to \"decide\" themselves how to proceed with its technical application. \"\"There was no conspiracy, not even in our small three-men-circle, with certainty not to make the bomb. Just as little, there was no passion to make the bomb...\" In a recent report based on additional documents from Russian archives, historian Mark Walker concludes that \"in comparison with Diebner [and] Gerlach ... Heisenberg and finally Weizsäcker did obviously not use all power they commanded to provide the National Socialists with nuclear weapons\"\".\n\nIvan Supek (one of Heisenberg's students and friends) claimed that Weizsäcker was the main figure behind the famous and controversial Heisenberg–Bohr meeting in Copenhagen in September 1941. Allegedly, he tried to persuade Bohr to mediate for peace between Germany and Great Britain. According to Weizsäcker's own account, he had persuaded Heisenberg to meet Bohr in order to broker an accord of the international nuclear physicist \"community\" not to build the bomb.\n\nWeizsäcker worked later during the war as a professor in Strasbourg. The American capture of his laboratory and papers there in December 1944 revealed to the Western Allies that the Germans had not come close to developing a nuclear weapon.\n\nWeizsäcker was allowed to return to the part of Germany administrated by the Western Allies in 1946, and became director of a department for theoretical physics in the Max Planck Institute for Physics in Göttingen. From 1957 to 1969, Weizsäcker was professor of philosophy at the University of Hamburg. In 1957 he won the Max Planck medal. In 1970 he formulated a \"Weltinnenpolitik\" (world internal policy). From 1970 to 1980, he was head of the Max Planck Institute for the Research of Living Conditions in the Modern World in Starnberg. He researched and published on the danger of nuclear war, what he saw as the conflict between the First World and the Third World, and the consequences of environmental degradation.\n\nHe was one of the eight signatories of the Memorandum of Tübingen which called for the recognition of the Oder-Neiße line as the official border between Germany and Poland and spoke against a possible nuclear armament of West Germany. \n\nIn the 1970s he founded, together with the Indian philosopher Pandit Gopi Krishna, a research foundation \"for western sciences and eastern wisdom\". After his retirement in 1980 he became a Christian pacifist, and intensified his work on the conceptual definition of quantum physics, particularly on the Copenhagen interpretation.\n\nHis experiences in the Nazi era, and with his own behavior in that time, gave Weizsäcker an interest in questions of ethics and responsibility. In 1957, he was one of the Göttinger 18, a group of prominent German physicists who protested against the idea that the Bundeswehr (West German armed forces) should be equipped with tactical nuclear weapons. He further suggested that West Germany should declare its definitive abdication of all kinds of nuclear weapons.\n\nIn 2007, Weizsäcker died at the age of 94 in Söcking near Starnberg. Opinions are split on the question of whether he accepted his share of responsibility for the German scientific community's efforts to build a nuclear weapon for Nazi Germany.\n\nWeizsäcker developed the theory of ur-alternatives (archetypal objects), publicized in his book \"Einheit der Natur\" (literal translation \"Oneness of Nature\", 1971) and further developed through the 1990s. The theory axiomatically constructs quantum physics from the distinction between empirically observable, binary alternatives. Weizsäcker used his theory, a form of digital physics, to derive the 3-dimensionality of space and to estimate the entropy of a proton falling into a black hole.\n\n\n\n\nThe Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker Gymnasium school was named after him, in the town of Barmstedt, Schleswig-Holstein.\n\nWeizsäcker was nominated several times for the Nobel Prize in Physics.\nSince 2009, the Donors' Association for German Science and the Leopoldina makes a biennial award of €50,000 \"Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker Award\" for \"outstanding scientific contribution to resolving socially important problems\". There is a Carl-Friedrich von Weizsäcker Foundation, knowledge and responsibility – Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker-Gesellschaft eV.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17522346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17522346", "title": "Chattisinghpora, Pathribal, and Barakpora massacres", "text": "Chattisinghpora, Pathribal, and Barakpora massacres\n\nThe Chattisinghpora, Pathribal, and Barakpora massacres refer to a series of three closely related incidents that took place in the Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir between 20 March 2000 and 3 April 2000 that left up to 49 Kashmiri civilians dead.\n\nOn the evening of 20 March 2000, 15–17 gunmen, entered the village of Chattisinghpora, located in Anantnag district. They ordered all of the Sikh men and boys to assemble at the village gurdwara, and systematically shot and killed 35 of them. Many others were injured in the attack, and least one man later died of his injuries. The sole survivor of the massacre was Nanak Singh Aulakh, who recounted the events to reporters. This was the first time in the Kashmir conflict that Sikhs had ever been targeted. In the aftermath of the attacks, Indian Home Minister LK Advani offered the state's Sikh population additional protective measures, however the local Sikh leadership reportedly rejected the plan, saying that the Muslim majority had not been hostile to them before and that no protection was needed. Mohammad Suhail Malik of Sialkot, Pakistan confessed while in custody about participating in the massacre at the direction of Lashkar-e-Toiba in an interview with Barry Bearak of The New York Times although Bearak questioned the authenticity of the confession. Suhail Malik is a nephew of Hafiz Muhammad Saeed of Lashkar-e-Toiba.\n\nThe massacre, which took place on the eve of U.S. President Bill Clinton's visit to the Subcontinent, was widely condemned by both the Indian and Pakistani governments, as well as the leaders of the Kashmiri separatist movement. Although the Government of India and the state government of Jammu and Kashmir had not yet launched any official investigation into the massacre, they immediately accused two Islamist terrorist organisations, Lashkar e Tayyiba and Hizbul Mujahideen. The All Parties Hurriyat Conference however, accused the Indian government of carrying out the massacre to discredit the Kashmiri independence movement, while Syed Salahuddin, head of Hizbul Mujahideen said: \"Mujahideen have nothing against the Sikh community which sympathizes with our struggle. We assure them that there never was and there will never be any danger to Sikhs from Kashmiri freedom fighters.\"\n\nLocal villagers ensured that the local school was up and running just two weeks after the killings. The massacre created tension and distrust between the Sikh and Muslim residents of the area, but no problems developed at the joint Muslim-Sikh village school.\n\nIn 2010, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) associate David Headley, who was arrested in connection with the 2008 Mumbai attacks, confessed to the National Investigation Agency that the LeT carried out the Chittisinghpura massacre. He is said to have identified an LeT militant named Muzzamil as part of the group which carried out the killings apparently to create communal tension just before Clinton’s visit.\n\nFive days after the events at Chattisinghpora, on 25 March 2000, Col. Ajay Saxena, Commanding Officer 7 RR (Retired Brigadier Now), Lt. Col. Brajendra Pratap Singh 2IC 7 RR (Retired Col Now), Lt. Saurabh Sharma Of Military Intelligence 7RR (Retired Major Now), Lt. Amit Saxena Adjutant 7 RR (later Major) and Nb. Sub. Idrees Khan (later Subedar) of the Indian Army killed five men in Pathribal village of Anantnag district, claiming that the victims were the \"foreign militants\" responsible for the attacks. Official reports claimed that security forces had, after a gun fight, blown up the hut where the men were hiding, and had retrieved five bodies that had been charred beyond recognition. The bodies were buried separately without any postmortem examination.\n\nLocal observers and political activists doubted the Indian government's official reports however, pointing out that if there had been a gunfight, some of the security force personnel must have sustained significant injuries – but none were injured, except Major Saurabh Sharma, who suffered minor injury while abducting one of the civilian from village. Over the following days, local villagers began to protest, claiming that the men were ordinary civilians who had been killed in a fake encounter, not \"foreign militants.\" According to them, up to 17 men had been detained by the police and \"disappeared\" between 21–24 March. On 30 March, local authorities in Anantnag relented to growing public pressure, and agreed to exhume the bodies and conduct an investigation into the deaths.\n\nOn 19 March 2012, The CBI (central Bureau of Investigation) told the Supreme Court of India that the fake encounter at Pathribal in Jammu and Kashmir 12 years ago in which seven people were killed by Army personnel \"were cold-blooded murders and the accused officials deserve to be meted out exemplary punishment.\"\nSenior counsel Ashok Bhan told a special bench of justices B S Chauhan and Swatanter Kumar that no prior sanction was required for prosecuting the Army officials and the need to ensure \"public confidence in the rule of law and dispensation of justice\" warranted their prosecution.\n\"Our investigations have revealed it was a fake encounter and cold-blooded\nIn June 2012, the Army conveyed its readiness to a Srinagar court to try the accused personnel in the military court. On 23 January 2014, the Indian Army closed this Case as evidence collected by it did not establish a prima facie case against any of the accused.\n\nDays later, Inspector General of Police (Kashmir range) Dr A K Bhan claimed that his personnel led by Senior Superintendent of Police Farooq Khan, in a joint operation with the army, had shot dead the five militants responsible for the Sikh massacre.\nAccording to Dr Bhan, the government forces had surrounded a hut in Panchthalan, near Pathribal, where the terrorists were hiding. The fierce encounter that ensued ended when the shelter, with all five inside, caught fire and was destroyed.\n\nThe special investigation team inquiring into the Pathribal incident approached the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics, Hyderabad, and the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Kolkata, with medical samples of the relatives to match with those of the slain men.\nThat was in 2000. Two years later, the controversy had faded from public memory when The Times of India reported that the samples from the relatives had been substituted with some others, a fact that both forensic centres had conveyed to the state police more than a year ago.\n'...While the DNA samples purported to have been collected from the relatives did not match those of the DNA isolated from the exhumed bodies, in three cases, the samples of women relatives were found to have come from men,' read the Times report.\n\nIn their little village in the militancy-hit Anantnag district, the traumatised family of Zahoor Dalal waits for justice – if not from Dr Abdullah, then from the Almighty.\"I do not need DNA tests to recognise my son,\" Dalaal's mother Raja Bano told rediff.com \"We had identified his body two years ago. Since the government wanted proof, we had given them blood samples. Now we are told those have been tampered with.\"\nSince her son's death, she has been unwell, subject to alternating fits of weeping and hysteria. The trauma has taken its toll on her daughter, Zahoor's younger sister, as well—she talks little, eats less, and faints frequently.\n\"Those who killed my son will not get away,\" Raja Bano said. \"The government may help them, but Allah will not deny me justice.\"\nHer lack of faith in Dr Abdullah's government is founded on two facts. One, the state administration, despite knowing for a year that the samples had been fudged, did not make any effort to conduct a fresh test. It collected fresh samples from the relatives only after the controversy hit the front pages and forced an admission from Dr Abdullah in the state assembly that the earlier samples had been fudged. And two, even after the Times report, senior state government officials continued to maintain that they had not received any communication from the forensic centres.\nDr Syed E Hasnain, director of the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics, contradicted the latter claim.\n\"Certainly the report has been sent to the investigating officer [appointed by the Jammu and Kashmir judiciary],\" Dr Hasnain confirmed to rediff.com \"I cannot comment on the fudging... but we stand by what we have said in the report.\"\nCentral Forensic Science Laboratory Director V K Kashyap told the Times: 'We had dashed off a letter to the J&K government immediately after we found the samples had certain serious discrepancies. Till date we have not received a single reply from either the state authorities or the investigative agency... We finished our investigations way back in December 2000, but how can we submit a report that is meaningless?'\n'The samples,' he added, 'were obviously tampered with.'\nAfter the Times report was published, the state government admitted that the centres had written to it, and promised that it would undertake fresh tests.Meanwhile, the cover-up attempt has strengthened the Kashmiris' belief that the five men were not terrorists—a belief that some leaders of the local Sikh community also share.\n\n\"The five the government killed were innocent,\" Niranjan Singh, president of the Anantnag District Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, told rediff.com on telephone. \"They had nothing to do with the murders.\"\nRanjit Singh, former president of the Anantnag Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, seconded this opinion. \"Nobody believes the claims of the government,\" he said in a telephone interview. \"It is utter nonsense.\"\n\nDR ABDULLAH, after an initial attempt to sidestep the controversy, responded with another inquiry. The chief minister told the state assembly that he was deeply 'ashamed there are agencies that can behave in such a manner.' He apologised to the assembly and promised that all those involved in collecting and sending 'fake' samples would be immediately suspended. And if found guilty by the one-member commission of inquiry he had just appointed, they would be 'dismissed and prosecuted', a Times report quoted him as saying.\nBlood samples were once again collected from relatives of the five youth and sent to Kolkata and Hyderabad.\nJammu & Kashmir Chief Secretary Ashok Jaitley clarified the matter further. \"We were naturally taken aback when we read that the samples had been fudged,\" he told rediff.com in a telephone interview. \"The state government will get to the bottom of this issue, that is why we have appointed Justice G A Kuchay, former judge of the Jammu & Kashmir high court, to inquire.\"\nJaitley said any action against those involved would follow only after the commission submits its report, which would be within two months.\nKashmiris react with cynicism. This, they point out, is how the script read even earlier—suspension, court of inquiry, tests...\nWhat compounds their cynicism is the fact that even as the state government sat on the communications from Hyderabad and Kolkata, it reinstated SSP Farooq Khan.\n\nDr Abdullah's political opponents condemned the incident. Such actions, they said, erode the people's trust in justice and fair play.\n\"It clearly shows the designs of the Farooq government,\" said former Union home minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, People's Democratic Party leader and main rival of Dr Abdullah's National Conference. \"It wants to cover up the killing of those five innocents.\"\nTrue, agreed Mehbooba Mufti, Sayeed's daughter and PDP leader. \"The Pathribal killing,\" she said, \"is just one in a huge spate of grave human rights violations since the National Conference government was elected.\"\nAnother example she cites was the killing of 19 civilians, including a pregnant woman, in Poonch in 1997. \"The state Human Rights Commission presented its report,\" she said. \"But the government has taken no action till now against the surrendered militants and security force personnel involved.\"\n\"What happens after an inquiry? Do they act on the recommendations?\" she asked. \"No, they don't,\" she said, answering her own question. \"They just let it be.\"\nDr Abdullah's position on human rights, his critics allege, is visible in the incident that started it all—namely, the Chattisinghpora massacre.\n\"In any case,\" said Communist Party of India-Marxist legislator Yusuf Tarigami, \"the basis of the protest at Barakpora was the killing of the five men at Pathribal. But the government kept that out of the Pandian Commission's purview, showing how bent it was on hiding the truth.\n\"Now Farooq Abdullah is talking of another inquiry, fresh samples,\" he continued. \"But that will not achieve anything... People have lost trust in these inquiry commissions.\"\n\nThere were allegations and counter-allegations—India said the massacre was the handiwork of Pakistan-sponsored terrorists; Pakistan-based terrorists alleged that Indian security forces were responsible. But there was no independent inquiry into the matter.\nThe chief minister asked Justice S R Pandian of the Supreme Court, who had inquired into the Barakpora firing and found the security force personnel guilty, to study the Sikh killings, but the judge refused to do so.\n\"Since he [Farooq Abdullah] was not interested in arriving at the truth, he let it be after that cosmetic exercise,\" his critics point out.\n\nNothing expresses it better than Raja Bano's words: \"I will give more blood, a thousand times if needed. But I don't think I will get justice from the government. Because they are the judges, they are the investigators, and they are the guilty.\" With no action being taken with regards to the promised investigation into the Pathribal deaths, the local population grew increasingly restless. On 3 April 2000, an estimated 3,000 to 4,000 protesters marched to the city of Anantnag, where they intended to present a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner demanding the exhumation of the bodies. When they reached the town of Barakpora, three kilometres from Anantnag, the protesters began an unprovoked throwing of stones at an Indian paramilitary camp. Members of the Central Reserve Police Force responded by opening fire on the protesters, killing 7 and injuring at least 15 more, of whom 1 or 2 later died of their injuries.\n\nOn 5 April 2000, Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah ordered the exhumation of the bodies from the Pathribal killings, which began the next day. DNA samples were collected from the five bodies, as well as 15 relatives of the missing young men, and were submitted to forensic laboratories in Kolkata and Hyderabad. However, in March 2002 it was discovered that the DNA samples allegedly taken from the bodies of the Pathribal victims (all of whom were men) had been tampered with, when, according to a report from the Times of India, lab workers found that samples had in fact been collected from females. Fresh samples were collected in April 2002, which, upon testing, conclusively proved that the victims were innocent local civilians, and not foreign militants as the Indian government had been claiming for the past two years.\n\nThe parties responsible for the initial massacre at Chattisinghpora remain unidentified – various theories have been put forward accusing both Pakistani Islamist militants, and Indian renegades – surrendered militants who cooperate with Indian armed forces. In August 2000, the Indian government announced that it had captured two Pakistan-based Lashkar e Tayyiba operatives, who, in December 2000, allegedly admitted to carrying out the attacks. An alleged Lashkar militant, Mohammad Suhail Malik of Sialkot, Pakistan, admitted to participating in the massacre. In an interview with \"The New York Times\", he stated that he had been trained in mountain climbing and marksmanship by the Lashkar, and had infiltrated into India in October 1999 carrying the equivalent of $200 for expenses. Malik went on to say that he knew nothing about the plot to kill the Sikhs until he stood in an orchard where the 35 people were killed, and had opened fire because he had been ordered to do so by his commanders. He stated that while \"the Koran teaches us not to kill innocents...if Lashkar told us to kill those people, then it was right to do it. I have no regrets.\" However, in the same article, the author decried the conditions under which the interview was conducted, and expressed doubt about the veracity of the confession. He stated that Malik gave few details in his answers, primarily repeating information from official police dossiers, and expressed concern that Malik may have been tortured while in custody. At one point in the article he states:\n\n\"I wanted to interview the teenager once more, this time without the authorities present. Somehow, I thought I could win his trust, offer him an out, persuade him that he did not have to confess to the massacre unless it was true.\nOn 10 August 2011, a Delhi court acquitted both Malik and another Pakistani national, Waseem Ahmed, of the charge of involvement in the Chattisinghpora massacre.\n\nSome human rights organisations have also expressed doubt about the veracity of these admissions. Independent inquiries by human rights activists from Punjab and the Ludhiana-based International Human Rights Organization have found that it is unlikely that the attacks were carried out by Indian security forces themselves, and that the perpetrators were most likely renegades.\n\nIn 2005, Sikh organisations such as the Bhai Kanahiya Jee Nishkam Seva Society demanded a deeper state inquiry into the details of the massacre and for the inquiry to be made public. In the wake of arrest of an Army officer for Malegaon blasts, Sikhs of J&K have demanded into the Chattisinghpora massacre.\n\nThe massacre coincided with the visit of United States president Bill Clinton to India. In an introduction to a book written by Madeleine Albright titled \"\", she accused \"Hindu militants\" of perpetrating the act. Hindu organisations protested the statement, and ultimately the publishers, Harper Collins, edited the statement out of future editions of the book. They acknowledged the error in an email to the Times of India:\n\nPage xi of the Mighty and the Almighty contains a reference to Hindu militants that will be deleted in subsequent printings, both in America and in international editions. This error was due to a failure in the fact-checking process.\nClinton's office never clarified the statement. In the hours immediately after the massacre in March 2000, the US condemned the killings but refused to accept the Indian government's contention that it was the work of Pakistani Islamist groups. Clinton explicitly condemned the massacre by \"unknown groups,\" and re-emphasised that point in his 2004 autobiography, \"My Life\". Similarly, in his 2004 book , Clinton aide Strobe Talbott confirms Clinton's misgivings about the massacre, pointing out that \"he [Clinton] did not endorse the accusation that Pakistan was behind the violence since the US had no independent confirmation.\"\n\nThe massacre was depicted in the commercial Bollywood film Adharm (unholy) directed by Adeep Singh.\n\n"}
{"id": "573289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573289", "title": "Chaupai (Sikhism)", "text": "Chaupai (Sikhism)\n\nBenti Chaupai (also referred to as Chaupai Sahib) is a hymn by Guru Gobind Singh. Chaupai is the 405th Charitar of the Charitropakhyan of the Dasam Granth and is a part of a Sikh's Nitnem (daily scripture reading). Chaupai Sahib begins after the 404 Chittar where two massive battles, including the later between Maha Kal and the devils, is narrated and the struggle of a goddess that was born as a result of the first battle and her quest for the acceptance of the Supreme Being, by her abandoning all other worldly desires, is illustrated.\n\nBenti Chaupai consists of three parts: Kabiyo Bach Benti Chaupai, Arril and Chaupai, and Savaiye and Dohra. Kabiyo Bach Benti Chaupai is normally referred to as Chaupai in short.\n\nThis hymn offers one protection and security and many Sikhs recite this Bani to gain spiritual safety and defense from external and internal enemies, worries and afflictions. The Gurmukhi gives one self-confidence and an upbeat feeling. This Bani gives one the feeling of reliability and dependability on the Lord.\n\nAccording to the researchers: Gurinder Singh Mann, Leicester UK and Dr Kamalroop Singh, London, the Chaupai Sahib was completed at Gurdwara Bhabour Sahib, Nangal as the closure of Sri Charitropakhyan written by the Tenth Guru. They show the proof of this in their book: Sri Dasam Granth Questions and Answers: London: Archimedes Press, 2011. These authors have received their University degrees on the Sri Dasam Granth Sahib.\n\n"}
{"id": "10440080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10440080", "title": "Deori people", "text": "Deori people\n\nThe 'Deori' is one of the major indigenous communities of Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, India. They historically live in the upper plains or also called as the hinterland of the Brahmaputra Valley. The Deori community belongs to the Sino-Tibetan family of Mongoloid stock (as is generally the case of the people of northeast India).\n\nThe people of Deori tribe are mainly divided into four groups or clans, namely Dibongia, Bor-geeya, Tengaponiya and Pator-goya. The entire people of each main clan or main group are again subdivided into several sub-clans or sub-groups. The word \"sub-clan\" or \"sub-group\" is called \"Boja\" or \"Bahor\" in Deori language. Each Deori people wants to know or wants to inform about their main clan and sub-clan (sub-group) in their first introduction. Otherwise, their introduction remains incomplete.\n\nHistory says that the homeland of the Deoris is in the North Eastern states of India or in the east of undivided Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. As per the folklore of the tribe, they initially settled in the Sotai hills which are located in today's Sonitpur district (previously known as Hadapeshvar). For unknown reasons, they migrated to the northeast and settled in Sadiya region. Deoris believed that they were once the priests of the Kamakhya temple which they recall in their folktales and songs. According to the book \"Mataks and their kingdom\",\n\nSome experts claim that the Patorgoyan clan assimilated with the Tiwa tribe in central Assam but there has been no scientific evidence to support the claim, which prompted a section of Deoris to begin a search. A preliminary investigation from September 30 to October 5 under the aegis of \"Jimachaya Giyan Aru Juktibadi Samaj\" has given positive indication of the presence of Deori people in Kachin province and near Yangon in Myanmar. A team of researchers has decided to visit Myanmar in search of the lost clan. Only the people of Dibongiya class can speak their own mother tongue, and almost all the other classes mysteriously lost their language. The three classes of Deoris live in the districts mentioned above.\n\n"}
{"id": "55019815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55019815", "title": "Frank Almonte", "text": "Frank Almonte\n\nFrank Almonte (born May 6, 1958) is the Senior Pastor of Centro Cristiano Adonai, in Corona, Queens in New York City. He is also the founder and president of Frank Almonte Ministries, Caring Foundation, the president of Facultad de Formación Teológica, and the Director of the Texas University of Theology campus in Corona, New York. Almonte has published two books: \"Gobierno Apostólico\" (2010) and \"Riquezas de las Naciones\" (2012). Almonte also served as a radio host at Radio Visión Cristiana from 1989 to 1998.\n\nManuel Frank Almonte was born in the Santiago Province of the Dominican Republic to Manuel F. Almonte and Luz Mercedes Sánchez. He earned his Doctorate (Ph.D) in Theological Studies from Texas University of Theology in 2017. In 2006, Almonte obtained an Honorary degree in Divinity from Logos Christian University in Jacksonville, Florida.\n\nIn 1978, Almonte earned a certificate as a radio host from International Academy of Locution, a division of the Cambridge University. He served as a host on Radio Visión Cristiana from 1989 to 1998. Almonte produced a weekly television show called \"Palabra Viva\" (English: \"Living Word\"), which was recorded during Sunday worship services at Centro Cristiano Adonai, and was transmitted in Queens and Brooklyn through Channel 66.\n\nAlmonte joined the staff of Centro Cristiano Adonai in 1986. He became Senior Pastor in 1988, at the age of 30, along with his wife Rosemary Almonte. As such, he oversees the church in Corona, New York, as well as churches in Massachusetts, New Jersey, Dominican Republic, and Argentina. Almonte is part of the Presbytery of Alberto Mottesi Evangelistic Association.\n\nAlmonte has been the Director of Super Cadena Cristiana since 1997, a radio station that focuses on multi-media Bible instruction and worship music. Some of their shows like \"El Maná del Día\" and \"Palabra del Reino\" are transmitted to Argentina, Venezuela, and Spain. Almonte is also the founder and president of Katedras, a Christian ministry dedicated to training entrepreneurs and professionals through lectures, seminars, and workshops. He also successfully completed the John C. Maxwell Certification Program and is recognized as a John C. Maxwell Coach, Teacher, and Speaker.\n\nAlmonte currently serves as Director of the Texas University of Theology campus in Corona, New York.\n\nAlmonte's first book, \"Gobierno Apostólico\", was released in 2010. The book is about applying the principles of God in terms of government and leadership. His second book, \"Riquezas de las Naciones: El Deseo de Dios para tu Empresa\", was released in 2012. It is about financial education within the Christian environment. Both books were released through God Reader Editorial.\n\nThrough his career, Almonte has received several awards and recognitions:\n\n\nIn January 1999, Almonte was detained at John F. Kennedy International Airport when returning from a mission trip in Bayaguana, Dominican Republic. Authorities claimed that Almonte was trying to bring 300 steroid pills into the country, while he said he believed the pills were \"appetite enhances\". According to Almonte, the pills were prescribed by a doctor in Dominican Republic for his underweight 12-year-old son, Joel. As a result, Almonte spent 10 days in a federal prison in Pennsylvania. If convicted, he faced seven years in prison and possibly deportation. In March 1999, prosecutors moved to drop the charges against Almonte. When the dismissal was announced, a crowd of 3,000 supporters gathered outside Queens County Courthouse to show their support.\n\n"}
{"id": "54635483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54635483", "title": "Frataraka", "text": "Frataraka\n\nFrataraka ( Prtkr') is an ancient Persian title, interpreted variously as “leader, governor, forerunner”. It is an epithet or title of a series of rulers in Persis from 3rd BC till mid 2nd BC prior to the Parthian conquest of West Asia and Iran. Studies of \"frataraka coins\" are important to historians of this period.\n\nDuring the Achaemenid Empire, frataraka was a title given to the head of a district or province in Egypt, who was junior in superiority to the satrap in Memphis, Egypt. During the time of Seleucid and Parthian Empires, the Aramaic on their coins suggest, depending on interpretation, that they served either deities such as Ahura Mazda or god-like kings such as the Achaemenids or \nSeleucids.\n\nThere are many controversies and debates about the origin, datings and Sequences of Rulers.\nFirst Bunch GF Hill (first one to catalog and study them and he opted same as herzfeld to early 3rd BC dating) but Alram and historian Wiesehofer all pointed to late dating of them iconographically epigraphically and also seamless continuation of their coinage from first series to second and so on. They argued that they ruled by late 2nd BC and ended by mid 2nd BC after Parthian conquered Persia.\n\nSome scholars such as Museler, Sarkhosh Curtis, Hoover, Engles and Mahdi Ahrabi all believe they have started ruling by 3rd BC and there are plenty of evidence produced by researchers pointing to it.\nFirst, there are couple of hoards discovered by Herzfeld since 1930's,which till now showing existence of Frataraka coins with Seleucus I victories and trophy coins which were issued by him during 305-301 BC and if we take the circulation average of 20 years, we reach to 285-280 BC and that year coincides with his death and being replaced by his co regent and his son Antiochus I. \nThere were no other coins from other Seleucid rulers discovered with Frataraka hoards suggesting the Frataraka got semi independent and started to strike their coins instead(actually there were some scarce Alexander the Great and Seleucus I and his co ruler in Persia Antiochus I in Some parts of Persia and some hoards discovered in 1930's and 1960-70's contain coins of them with some Frataraka rulers indicating many interpretations which still is open to conclude).There are other evidences as well.\nThe quite numbers of undertype of Seleucus I on coins of Frataraka rulers also point out to their closeness to first Seleucid king and some early Seleucid influences both in iconography and typology of their coins shows they were ruling Persis in earlier than 2nd BC.\nThe names of some Greek and Macedonian satrap mentioned as late as 222 BC with name Alexandros brother of melon upper satrap before accession of Antiochus III.\n\nMahdi TF Ahrabi\n\n\nAlram, M \" Nomina propria Iranica in nummis \". 1986\n\nBoyce M & Grenet F. “A History of Zoroastrianism VO: 3 E.J Brill Leiden Publications, \n1991, PP110-113\n\nBrandenstein W & Mayrhofer M. \"Handbuch des Altpersischen,\" Wiesbaden, 1964.\n\nCowley, A.E \"Aramaic Papyri of the Fifth Century B.C\"., Oxford, 1923.\n\nCurtis, V S \"The Frataraka Coins of Persis: Bridging the Gap between Achaemenid and Sasanian Persia\"\nin World of Achaemenid Persia; history, art and society in Iran and the ancient Near East; Edited; 379-396,\nI. B. Tauris, London; 2010\n\nKlose, D.O. & Müseler W. \"Die Münzen aus Persepolis von Alexander dem Großen zu den Sasaniden\".(Munich, 2008).\n\nNaster P. “Note G’epigraphie Monetaire De Perside Fratakara,Fratakara,Fratadara” Leiden 1968, PP 74–77\n\nPanaino A. \"The Bagan of the Frataraka: Gods or divine kings? \"in: C.G. Cereti at al. (ed. s), \nReligious themes and texts of pre-islamic Iran and Central, Asia, Wiesbaden 2003, pp. 265-288\n\nSkjaervo P.O, ” The Joy of the Cup\". Bulletin of Asia institute, 1997 P 102\n\nWiesehöfer, J. “PRTRK, RB HYLʾ und MRʾ,” in H. Sancisi-Weerdenburg and A. Kuhrt, eds., Achaemenid History VI. Asia Minor and Egypt: Old Cultures in a New Empire, Leiden, 1991, pp. 305–9.\n\nWiesehöfer, J. \"Die 'dunklen Jahrhunderte' der Persis. Untersuchungen zu Geschichte und Kultur von Fārs\".\nin frühhellenistischer Zeit (330-140 v.Chr.) (Zetemata, 90), München 1994\n\nWiesehöfer J. \"Frataraka Iranica online\". 2000,\n"}
{"id": "298222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298222", "title": "Gefilte fish", "text": "Gefilte fish\n\nGefilte fish (; from , \"stuffed fish\") is a dish made from a poached mixture of ground deboned fish, such as carp, whitefish, or pike. It is traditionally served as an appetizer by Ashkenazi Jewish households. Although it historically consisted of a minced-fish forcemeat stuffed inside the fish skin, this step has been commonly omitted since the 19th century and the seasoned fish is most commonly formed into patties similar to \"quenelles\" or fish balls. These are popular on Shabbat and Jewish Holidays such as Passover, although they may be consumed throughout the year.\n\nIn Poland, gefilte fish, referred to as \"karp po żydowsku\" (\"carp Jewish-style\"), is a traditional dish in some Polish homes (more commonly in the northern regions near the Baltic Sea), served on Christmas Eve (for Twelve-dish supper) and on Holy Saturday.\n\nTraditionally, carp, pike, mullet, or whitefish were used to make gefilte fish, but more recently other fish with white flesh such as Nile perch have been used, and there is a pink variation using salmon. There are even vegetarian variations.\n\nFish fillets are ground with eggs, onion, bread or matzo crumbs, and spices to produce a paste or dough which is then boiled in fish stock.\n\nTraditionally gefilte fish is cooked and served as egg-shaped patties, like quenelles, but sometimes it is cooked in large logs or terrines and then sliced for serving. In the United Kingdom, gefilte fish is commonly fried. It is usually served cold or at room temperature. Each piece may be topped with a slice of carrot, with a horseradish mixture called \"khreyn\" on the side.\n\nDue to the previous general poverty of the Jewish population in Europe and especially Eastern Europe, where the dish originated, an economical recipe for the above also may have included finely ground and soaked matzo meal or bread crumbs. This form of preparation eliminated the need for picking out fish bones at the table, and \"stretched\" the (expensive) fish further, so that even poor, large families could enjoy fish on Shabbat. Not only is picking bones religiously prohibited on the Sabbath, but many of the common fish used in the dish, such as carp, are exceptionally bony and difficult to eat in whole form. The fish bones can then be used in making fish stock.\n\nIn Polish Catholic homes, gefilte fish () is a traditional dish to be eaten on Christmas Eve and Holy Saturday, as these are traditionally meatless feasts. This follows a pattern in which a number of Jewish dishes were also eaten on Catholic religious days in Poland.\n\nGefilte fish may be slightly sweet or savory. Preparation of gefilte fish with sugar or black pepper is considered an indicator of whether a Jewish community was Galitzianer (with sugar) or Litvak (with pepper); the boundary separating northern from southern East Yiddish has thus been dubbed \"the Gefilte Fish Line\".\n\nThe post-WWII method of making gefilte fish commercially takes the form of patties or balls, or utilizes a wax paper casing around a \"log\" of ground fish, which is then poached or baked. This product is sold in cans and glass jars, and packed in jelly made from fish broth. The sodium content is relatively high at 220–290 mg/serving. Low-salt, low-carbohydrate, low-cholesterol, sugar-free, and kosher varieties are available. The patent () for this jelly, which allowed mass-market distribution of gefilte fish, was granted on October 29, 1963 to Monroe Nash and Erich G. Freudenstein. Gefilte fish are also sold frozen in \"logs\".\n\nAmong religiously observant Jews, gefilte fish has become a traditional Shabbat food to avoid \"borer\", which is one of the 39 activities prohibited on Shabbat outlined in the Shulchan Aruch. \"Borer\", literally \"selection/choosing\", would occur when one picks the bones out of the fish, taking \"the chaff from within the food\".\n\nA less common belief is that fish are not subject to \"ayin hara\" (\"evil eye\") because they are submerged while alive, so that a dish prepared from several fish varieties brings good luck.\n\nFish is pareve, neither meat nor dairy, and, according to kosher law, it may be eaten at both meat and dairy meals, although according to halakha law, fish and meat should not be eaten together.\n\n"}
{"id": "50223845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50223845", "title": "Ghasera Fort", "text": "Ghasera Fort\n\nGhasera Fort (Hindi: घसेरा किला) is a ruined fort in Ghasera village in Mewat district, Haryana state, northern India. Currently the villages is dominated by Muslims Meos, though Hindus also live there.\n\nThe ruined Ghasera Fort lies at Ghasera village from Nuh city on Nun-Sohna road that was ruled by Bahadur Singh Bargujar , a Rajput chief of 11 villages, he was killed in 1753 by the famous Jat king Surajmal of Bharatpur State after Jats besieged and ran over the Ghasera fort, after which Jats turned to Delhi by defeating Mughal king Ahmad Shah Bahadur and occupied the Red Fort there in 1754 CE.\n\nRuined walls and a grand entrance show that Ghasera was a historical village.\n\nDuring the reign of Aurangzeb there was a Rajput freebooter named Hathi Singh Badgujar at Dahana (now called Badshahpur village in Mewat district). He sought the help of Jat King Churaman of Bharatpur State to seek his help to obtain pardon from Aurangzeb, which was granted to him on the condition that he will kill the famed bandit \"Sanwali\". For achieving this task, he was granted pardon and given a jagir of 11 villages by Aurangzeb that included Ghasera, Indor, Kotla and Sohna, he built his fort at Ghasera.\n\nHathi Singh Badgujar was succeeded by his son \"Bhadur Singh Badgujar\" who entered in allaiance with Malhar Rao Holkar of Indore who was the Maratha Subhedar of Malwa to attack the Rajput King Maharaja Sawai Madho Singh I of Jaipur. Maharaja Sawai Madho Singh I sought the help of Jat king Maharaja Surajmal of Bharatpur State.\n\nIn 1753, Maharaja Surajmal besieged Ghasera fort of \"Bhadur Singh Badgujar\". In the battle, Bahadur Singh lost and his wives committed suicide.\n\nIn 1754, after Ghasera Jats turned to Delhi, defeated the Mughal king Ahmad Shah Bahadur, occupied the Red Fort there, took away the bounty and gates of Red fort with them to humiliate the Mughals.\n\n"}
{"id": "5734850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5734850", "title": "Gurdwaras in Canada", "text": "Gurdwaras in Canada\n\nThe following is a list of gurdwaras in Canada\n\n\n\n\nThe Maritime Sikh Society (MSS) is a religious body providing services to Sikhs of the Maritime provinces of Canada. There are about 350 members of the Sikh Community in Nova Scotia. Every Sunday morning about 130 of them attend the congregation in the Sikh temple located at 10 Parkhill Road, Halifax, NS, Canada.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPhone:(306) 359-7700\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58896739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58896739", "title": "Hindu Temple of Central Indiana", "text": "Hindu Temple of Central Indiana\n\nHindu Temple of Central Indiana (HTCI) is a hindu temple located in Indianapolis. The temple is currently located at 3350 N. German Church Rd in the middle of several cornfields.\n\nBefore the creation of HTCI, most hindus would go to Hindu Temple of Dayton or temples in Chicago for hindu worship services. Members of the Hindu Community in the Indianapolis Metropolitan Area decided to create a Hindu Temple which was inaugurated in 2006. In 2011, HTCI held a ceremony for its new idols, Sri Subramanya and Sri Ayyappa.\n\nIn June 2015, the temple's $10 Million worship hall was opened. The worship hall contains 17 shrines to various Hindu Deities spread over 4 different Gopurams, with the main tower being over 99 feet tall. \n"}
{"id": "562432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=562432", "title": "Jamaat al Muslimeen", "text": "Jamaat al Muslimeen\n\nThe Jamaat al Muslimeen (from Arabic جماعة المسلمين, also transliterated as Jamaat-ul Muslimeen or Jama'at al-Muslimeen, \"School of Muslims\", \"Group of Muslims\", \"The Muslim Group\", \"The Muslim Assembly\", \"The Muslim Society\", \"The Muslim Community\") is a religious Muslim organisation within the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. \n\nThe organisation is best known for the Jamaat al Muslimeen coup attempt of July 1990, in which its leader, Imam Yasin Abu Bakr, led members of the Jamaat in an attempted \"coup d'état\" against the elected Government of Trinidad and Tobago. Over a six-day period members of the government, including then-Prime Minister A.N.R. Robinson, were held hostage at gunpoint, while the group occupied a television station and parliament, and chaos and looting broke out in the streets of the capital, Port of Spain.\n\nThe background for the foundation of movement is a widespread presence of black racism, the division of community on the basis of race, the illicit drug trade and ideology of extremist jihad. The next step was a development of a militant Islamic discourse which insisted that liberation for especially Afro-Trinidadians and Tobagonians was only found within the ambit of Islam. As the result, a group called Jamaat al Muslimeen (JAM), an Afro-Trinidadian Muslim movement, was founded.\n\nIn July 1990, forty-two insurgents stormed the parliament, taking Prime Minister Arthur Napoleon Raymond (ANR) Robinson and most of his staff hostage. Seventy-two insurgents stormed a local police station, and at 6:00 PM JAM leader Yasin Abu Bakr told the public the government had been overthrown. During the four-day siege in which 24 people were killed, JAM agreed to surrender in exchange for amnesty. Abu Bakr and 114 of his followers were granted presidential pardons, which were later retracted, but no JAM members from the coup have ever served jail time in connection with the attack. \n\nA court ruling upheld an amnesty agreement obtained during the incarceration of parliament by the group. This led to the non-prosecution of its members for this crime despite the contention that the fact that guns and force were used to obtain said amnesty constituted duress. Subsequent to the attempted coup, it aligned itself publicly first with the United National Congress (in the run-up to the 1995 General Elections) and later with the People's National Movement (PNM), the party which formed the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago until May 2010.\n\nBefore and since those elections, however, present and past members have been connected or prosecuted for serious violent crimes. These crimes include drug and gang related killings, rape and a current spree of kidnappings for ransom of members of the local upper and middle class. The organisation's leader is currently being prosecuted with conspiracy to murder several of the group's former members who had spoken out publicly against the Jamaat al Muslimeen and its practices, and who were suspected of becoming witnesses in legal proceedings against its members.\n\nIn 2005, The group was suspected of being linked to a series of bombings in Port-of-Spain and also for a group member arrested in the United States for attempting to ship 70 assault rifles from Fort Lauderdale to Trinidad.\nAs of March 2007, three members of the Jamaat al Muslimeen have confessed to their role in the kidnapping, rape, and murder of a businesswoman, Vindra Naipaul-Coolman. Currently, these men are under surveillance by the local National Security Agency as well as the United States Central Intelligence Agency for suspected terrorist relations with the Middle East, as are two other Muslim factions. On 24 July 2015, they escaped and commenced in a shootout in the Country's capital Port of Spain and the Port of Spain General Hospital which put the capital on a lock down and caused the twin islands to be on high alert. One escapee was killed by the police during a later shoot-out at the Port of Spain general hospital.\n\nAbu Bakr was investigated in 2007 when the reports of an attempted bombing attempt at John F. Kennedy (JFK) Airport linked JAM to one of the perpetrators, a Trinidadian national. The suspects reportedly asked Abu Bakr for assistance in carrying out this plot. Abu Bakr and JAM deny any connection to participating in the plot.\n\nIn 2014, eleven JAM members allegedly participated in the assassination of Dana Seetahal, an independent senator. During the trial a Special Branch intelligence memo featuring an unconfirmed report was leaked to social media. The report indicated that law enforcement feared violence from JAM amid reports the group may have been moving arms in preparation for an attack on police stations. No attack materialised however.\n\nOn 14 July 2015, JAM members launched an armed jailbreak of the suspected assassins in the Seetahal case. During a shoot out one police officer and one JAM member were killed.\n\nJAM and Abu Bakr’s influence has waned somewhat with the rise of IS has made its presence known in the region. 89 Trinidadian and Tobagonians’ have already pledged allegiance to the group and a group of Salafists attempted to assassinate the prime minister.\n\n"}
{"id": "18951694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18951694", "title": "Khuda", "text": "Khuda\n\nKhuda or Khoda () is the Iranian word for \"Lord\" or \"God\". Originally, it was used in reference to Ahura Mazda (the name of God in Zoroastrianism).\n\nThe term derives from Middle Iranian terms \"xvatay, xwadag\" meaning \"lord\", \"ruler\", \"master\", appearing in written form in Parthian \"kwdy\", in Middle Persian \"kwdy\", and in Sogdian \"kwdy\". It is the Middle Persian reflex of older Iranian forms such as Avestan \"xa-dhata-\" \"self-defined; autocrat\", an epithet of Ahura Mazda. The Pashto term \"Xdāi\" (خدۍ) is either a Persian loanword or an Eastern Iranian cognate.\n\nProsaic usage is found for example in the Sassanid title \"katak-xvatay\" to denote the head of a clan or extended household or in the title of the 6th century \"Khwaday-Namag\" \"Book of Lords\", from which the tales of Kayanian dynasty as found in the \"Shahnameh\" derive.\n\nSemi-religious usage appears, for example, in the epithet \"zaman-i derang xvatay\" \"time of the long dominion\", as found in the \"Menog-i Khrad\". The fourth and eighty-sixth entry of the Pazend prayer titled \"101 Names of God\", \"Harvesp-Khoda\" \"Lord of All\" and \"Khudawand\" \"Lord of the Universe\", respectively, are compounds involving \"Khuda\".\nApplication of \"khuda\" as \"\"the\" Lord\" (Ahura Mazda) is represented in the first entry in the medieval \"Frahang-i Pahlavig\".\n\nIn Islamic times, the term came to be used for God in Islam, paralleling the Arabic name of God \"Al-Malik\" \"Owner, King, Lord, Master\".\n\nThe phrase Khuda Hafiz (meaning \"May God be your Guardian\") is a parting phrase commonly used in Persian, Kurdish, Bengali and Pashto, as well as in Urdu among South Asian Muslims.\n\nIt also exists as a loanword, used for God in Turkish (\"Hüdâ\"), and by Muslims in Bengali, Urdu.\n\n"}
{"id": "51482467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51482467", "title": "Kshamasagar", "text": "Kshamasagar\n\nMuni Kshamasagar was a \"Digambara monk\" initiated by \"Acharya\" Vidyasagar. He was one of the most followed Jain monks. He is also known for his poetry and writings which are widely quoted.\n\nKshamasagar was born in the city of Sagar, Madhya Pradesh on 20 September 1957. His father Virendra Singhai was a nephew of famous Sagar philanthropist Singhai Kundanlal, who was a longtime supporter of Ganesh Varni. He was initiated as a \"Digambara monk\" on 20 August 1982 by \"Acharya\" Vidyasagar. He did his M. Tech from Sagar University and renounced the worldly life soon afterwards.\n\nHe died on 13 March 2015 at 6.00 AM in Moraji Jain temple during his \"Chaturmas\" period. More than 50,000 people attended his funeral proceedings.\n\nKshamasagar wrote \"In Quest of the Self: The Life Story of Acharya Shri Vidyasagar\", a biography of his teacher \"Āchārya\" Vidyadagar.\n\nHis poems have been collected and published in Hindi and English.His poetry works include the following published books. \n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "6874642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6874642", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in the Philippines", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in the Philippines\n\nThe following is a List of the Catholic dioceses of the Philippines. The dioceses' bishops comprise the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines (CBCP), an episcopal conference.\n\nThese are directly subject to the Holy See, not part of any ecclesiastical province.\n\n\n\nMost dioceses are grouped into ecclesiastical provinces, each of which comprises a Metropolitan archdiocese and several suffragan dioceses and is headed by the archbishop, as the metropolitan bishop of the province. The following are the dioceses with their foundation date or year.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17635448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17635448", "title": "List of atheists in film, radio, television and theater", "text": "List of atheists in film, radio, television and theater\n\nThis is a list of atheists in film, radio, television and theater. Included are living persons whose atheism is relevant to their notable activities or public life, and who have publicly identified themselves as atheists. All additions should be sourced.\n\n"}
{"id": "15570226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15570226", "title": "Ludlul bēl nēmeqi", "text": "Ludlul bēl nēmeqi\n\nLudlul bēl nēmeqi (\"I Will Praise the Lord of Wisdom\"), also sometimes known in English as The Poem of the Righteous Sufferer, is a Mesopotamian poem (ANET, pp. 434–437) written in Akkadian that concerns itself with the problem of the unjust suffering of an afflicted man, named Shubshi-meshre-Shakkan. The author is tormented, but he doesn't know why. He has been faithful in all of his duties to the gods. He speculates that perhaps what is good to man is evil to the gods and vice versa. He is ultimately delivered from his sufferings.\n\nThe poem was written on four tablets in its canonical form and consisted of 480 lines. Alternate names for the poem include the \"Poem of the Righteous Sufferer\" or the \"Babylonian Job\". According to William Moran, the work is a hymn of thanksgiving to Marduk for recovery from illness.\n\nThe first (but now outdated) edition of the poem was published by W. G. Lambert in 1960 (reprinted in 1996). Amar Annus and Alan Lenzi have now prepared a new edition of the poem for the Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project. This volume was published as State Archive of Assyria Cuneiform Text 7 (SAACT 7). The new edition includes tablets published by Wiseman, George and Al-Rawi, Horowitz and Lambert, and several other unpublished tablets from the British Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "340618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340618", "title": "Megachurch", "text": "Megachurch\n\nA megachurch is defined by the Hartford Institute as any Protestant Christian church having 2,000 or more people in average weekend attendance. The Oxford English Dictionary defines the term, first documented in 1984, as a church with an unusually large membership, especially one preaching a conservative or evangelical form of Christianity and also offering a variety of educational and social activities.\n\nThe concept originated in the mid 19th century, continued into the mid 20th century as a low-key phenomenon, and expanded rapidly through the 1980s and 1990s; it is widely seen across the US in the early 21st century. \n\nThe origins of the megachurch movement, with a large number of local congregants who return on a weekly basis can be traced to the 1800s. There were large churches earlier in history, but they were considerably rarer. Examples include Charles Spurgeon's Baptist Metropolitan Tabernacle in London which attracted 5,000 weekly for years in the late 19th century, and religious broadcaster Aimee Semple McPherson's Angelus Temple in Los Angeles, of similar size.\n\nIn 2010, the Hartford Institute's database listed more than 1,300 such Protestant churches in the United States; according to that data, approximately 50 churches on the list had average attendance exceeding 10,000, with the highest recorded at 47,000 in average attendance. On one weekend in November 2015, around one in ten Protestant churchgoers in the US, or about 5 million people, attended service in a megachurch. 3,000 individual Catholic parishes have 2,000 or more attendants for an average Sunday Mass, but they are not called megachurches as that is a specifically Protestant term.Globally, these large congregations are a significant development in Protestant Christianity. In the United States, the phenomenon has more than quadrupled in the past two decades. It has since spread worldwide. In 2007, five of the ten largest Protestant churches were in South Korea. The largest megachurch in the United States is Lakewood Church in Houston, Texas with more than 40,000 members every weekend and the current largest megachurch in the world is South Korea's Yoido Full Gospel Church, an Assemblies of God church, with more than 830,000 members as of 2007.\nCivil rights activist and Baptist minister Al Sharpton has claimed that megachurches focus on personal morality issues while ignoring social justice issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "8344242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8344242", "title": "Mehandipur Balaji Temple", "text": "Mehandipur Balaji Temple\n\nMehandipur Balaji Mandir (Hindi/Rajastani: मेहंदीपुर बालाजी मंदिर) is a noted Hindu temple, mandir in Dausa district of Rajasthan, dedicated to the Hindu God Hanuman. The name \"Balaji\" is applied to Shri Hanuman in several parts of India because the childhood (\"Bala\" in Hindi or Sanskrit) form of the Lord is especially celebrated there. The temple is dedicated to Balaji (another name for Shree Hanuman Ji). Unlike similar religious sites it is located in a town rather than the countryside. Its reputation for ritualistic healing and exorcism of evil spirits attracts many pilgrims from Rajasthan and elsewhere. The old village Mehandipur is located nearby the small hill. Old village is not well developed.\n\nThe temple of Balaji Maharaj built in Mehandipur is very famous especially in northern part of India. The first Mahant of the temple was Shri Ganeshpuriji Maharaj and the present Mahant of the temple Shri Kishorpuriji is very strict to follow vegetarian and reading holy books. The temple of Shri Siyaram Bhagvan in front of Balaji Mandir is very beautiful and the idol of Shri Siyaram Bhagvan is very beautiful.\n\nThe person who is suffering from evil spirits (Sankatwalas) get relief from distress by the methods like Arji, Sawamani and Darkhast. Bhog of Boondi ke Laddu offering to Shri Balaji Maharaj, Rice and Urad pulse to Bhairav Baba (Kotval Kaptan, head of army and Shri Pretraj Sarkar, king of evil spirits). Saturday and Tuesday are the busiest days in the temple because both these days are the days of Hanumanji. Some other temples near Balaji temple are Anjani Mata temple, Kali Mata at Teen Pahaad, Panchmukhi Hanumanji, Ganeshji temple at Saat Pahaad, Samadhi Wale Baba (the first mahant), are some important temples in Mehandipur Balaji. The Prasad from Mandir is distributed in nearby schools, colleges, and hostels and many other public places free of cost.\n\nThe temple has been known for many years, for exorcism from evil spirits attachments and black magic or spells. In 2013, an international team of scientist, scholars and psychiatrists from Germany, Netherlands, AIIMS, New Delhi, and University of Delhi started a study to evaluate all aspects of treatment and rituals at the temple.\n\nThe temple is situated in Todabhim, Karauli district near Hindaun City of the Indian state of Rajasthan. The village is situated at the border of two districts- Karauli and Dausa. And the temple is also divided as half and another half in districts by border. The Ram Temple in front of main temple is also divided the same.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "555748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555748", "title": "Mikveh", "text": "Mikveh\n\nMikveh or mikvah (,  \"mikva'ot\", \"mikvoth\", \"mikvot\", or (Yiddish) \"mikves\",  \"a collection\") is a bath used for the purpose of ritual immersion in Judaism to achieve ritual purity.\n\nAfter the destruction of the Temple, the mikveh's main uses remained as follows:\n\nMost forms of impurity can be nullified through immersion in any natural collection of water. However, some impurities, such as a zav, require \"living water\", such as springs or groundwater wells. Living water has the further advantage of being able to purify even while flowing, as opposed to rainwater which must be stationary in order to purify. The \"mikveh\" is designed to simplify this requirement, by providing a bathing facility that remains in ritual contact with a natural source of water.\n\nIn Orthodox Judaism, these regulations are steadfastly adhered to and, consequently, the mikveh is central to an Orthodox Jewish community; they formally hold in Conservative Judaism as well. The existence of a mikveh is considered so important that a Jewish community is required to construct a mikveh even before building a synagogue, and must go to the extreme of selling Torah scrolls or even a synagogue if necessary, to provide funding for its construction.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, the word is employed in its broader sense but generally means a collection of water. \n\nBefore the beginning of the first century BCE, neither written sources, nor archaeology gives any indication about the existence of specific installations used for ritual cleansing. Mikvoth appear at the beginning of the first century BCE, and from then on ancient mikvoth can be found throughout the land of Israel as well as in historic communities of the Jewish diaspora.\n\nThe traditional rules regarding the construction of a mikveh are based on those specified in classical rabbinical literature. According to these rules, a mikveh must be connected to a natural spring or well of naturally occurring water, and thus can be supplied by rivers and lakes which have natural springs as their source. A cistern filled by the rain is also permitted to act as a mikveh's water supply. Similarly snow, ice and hail are allowed to act as the supply of water to a mikveh, as long as it melts in a certain manner. A river that dries up on a regular basis cannot be used because it is presumed to be mainly rainwater, which cannot purify while flowing. Oceans for the most part have the status of natural springs.\n\nA mikveh must, according to the classical regulations, contain enough water to cover the entire body of an average-sized person; based on a mikveh with the dimensions of 3 cubits deep, 1 cubit wide, and 1 cubit long, the necessary volume of water was \"estimated\" as being 40 \"seah\" of water. The exact volume referred to by a \"seah\" is debated, and classical rabbinical literature specifies only that it is enough to fit 144 eggs; most Orthodox Jews use the stringent ruling of the Avrohom Yeshaya Karelitz, according to which one \"seah\" is 14.3 litres, and therefore a mikveh must contain approximately 575 litres. This volume of water could be topped up with water from any source, but if there were less than 40 seahs of water in the mikveh, then the addition of 3 or more pints of water from an unnatural source would render the mikveh unfit for use, regardless of whether water from a natural source was then added to make up 40 seahs from a natural source; a mikveh rendered unfit for use in this way would need to be completely drained away and refilled from scratch in the prescribed way.\n\nAlthough not commonly accepted, at least one American Orthodox rabbi advocated a home mikvah using tap water. As water only flows through pipes open at both ends, the municipal and in-home plumbing would be construed as a non-vessel. So long as the pipes, hoses, and fittings were all freestanding and not held in the hand, it could be used to fill a mikvah receptacle that met all other requirements.\n\nThere are also classical requirements for the manner in which the water can be stored and transported to the pool; the water must flow naturally to the mikveh from the source, which essentially means that it must be supplied by gravity or a natural pressure gradient, and the water cannot be pumped there by hand or carried. It was also forbidden for the water to pass through any vessel which could hold water within it (however pipes open to the air at both ends are fine) As a result, tap water could not be used as the primary water source for a mikveh, although it can be used to top the water up to a suitable level. To avoid issues with these rules in large cities, various methods are employed to establish a valid mikveh. One is that tap water is made to flow over the top of a kosher mikveh, and through a conduit into a larger pool. A second method is to create a mikveh in a deep pool, place a floor with holes over that and then fill the upper pool with tap water. In this way, it is considered as if the person dipping is actually \"in\" the pool of rain water.\n\nMost contemporary mikvoth are indoor constructions, involving rainwater collected from a cistern, and passed through a duct by gravity into an ordinary bathing pool; the mikveh can be heated, taking into account certain rules, often resulting in an environment not unlike a spa.\n\nA mikveh must be built into the ground or built as an essential part of a building. Portable receptacles, such as bathtubs, whirlpools or Jacuzzis, can therefore never function as mikvehs.\"\n\nTraditionally, the mikveh was used by both men and women to regain ritual purity after various events, according to regulations laid down in the Torah and in classical rabbinical literature.\n\nThe Torah requires full immersion\n\nClassical rabbinical writers conflated the rules for zavah and niddah. It also became customary for Kohanim to fully immerse themselves before Jewish holidays, and the laity of many communities subsequently adopted this practice. Converts to Judaism are required to undergo full immersion in water.\n\nSome Jewish funeral homes have a mikveh for immersing a body during the purification procedure (\"taharah\") before burial.\n\nOrthodox Judaism generally adheres to the classical regulations and traditions, and consequently Orthodox Jewish women are obligated to immerse in a mikveh between Niddah and sexual relations with their husbands. This includes brides before their marriage, and married women after their menstruation period or childbirth. In accordance with Orthodox rules concerning modesty, men and women are required to immerse in separate mikveh facilities in separate locations, or to use the mikveh at different designated times. \n\nConverts to Orthodox Judaism, regardless of gender, are also required to immerse in a mikveh. \n\nIt is customary for Orthodox Jews to immerse before Yom Kippur, and married women sometimes do so as well. In the customs of certain Jewish communities, men also use a mikveh before Jewish holidays; the men in certain communities, especially hasidic and haredi groups, also practice immersion before each Shabbat, and some immerse in a mikveh every single day. Although the Temple Mount is treated by many Orthodox Jewish authorities as being forbidden territory, a small number of groups permit access, but require immersion before ascending the Mount as a precaution.\n\nOrthodox Judaism requires that vessels and utensils must be immersed in a mikveh before being used for food, if purchased or received from a non-Jew.\n\nImmersion in a mikveh is obligatory in contemporary Orthodox Jewish practice in the following circumstances:\n\nImmersion in a mikveh is customary in contemporary Orthodox Jewish practice in the following circumstances:\nImmersion for men is more common in Hasidic communities, and non-existent in others, like German Jewish communities.\n\nRabbi Aryeh Kaplan in \"Waters of Eden\" connects the laws of impurity to the narrative in the beginning of Genesis. According to Genesis, by eating of the fruit, Adam and Eve had brought death into the world. Kaplan points out that most of the laws of impurity relate to some form of death (or in the case of Niddah the loss of a potential life). One who comes into contact with one of the forms of death must then immerse in water which is described in Genesis as flowing out of the Garden of Eden (the source of life) in order to cleanse oneself of this contact with death (and by extension of sin).\n\nRabbi Abraham Isaac Kook offered an additional message for mikveh.\n\nBy immersing ourselves in water, \"we are forced to recognize our existential estrangement from the physical universe. How long can we survive under water? The experience of submerging drives home the realization that our existence in this world is transient, and we should strive towards more lasting goals.\" \n\nIn a series of responsa on the subject of Niddah in December 2006, the Committee on Jewish Law and Standards of Conservative Judaism reaffirmed a requirement that Conservative women use a mikveh monthly following the end of the niddah period following menstruation, while adapting certain leniencies including reducing the length of the nidda period. The three responsa adapted permit a range of approaches from an opinion reaffirming the traditional ritual to an opinion declaring the concept of ritual purity does not apply outside the Temple in Jerusalem, proposing a new theological basis for the ritual, adapting new terminology including renaming the observances related to menstruation from \"taharat hamishpacha\" family purity to \"kedushat hamishpaha\" [family holiness] to reflect the view that the concept of ritual purity is no longer considered applicable, and adopting certain leniencies including reducing the length of the niddah period.\n\nIsaac Klein's \"A Guide to Jewish Religious Practice\", a comprehensive guide frequently used within Conservative Judaism also addresses Conservative views on other uses of a mikveh, but because it predates the 2006 opinions it describes an approach more closely resembling the Orthodox one and does not address the leniencies and views those opinions reflected. Rabbi Miriam Berkowitz's recent book \"Taking the Plunge: A Practical and Spiritual Guide to the Mikveh\" (Jerusalem: Schechter Institute, 2007) offers a comprehensive discussion of contemporary issues and new mikveh uses along with traditional reasons for observance, details of how to prepare and what to expect, and how the laws developed. Conservative Judaism encourages but does not require immersion before Jewish Holidays (including Yom Kippur), nor the immersion of utensils purchased from non-Jews. New uses are being developed throughout the liberal world for healing (after rape, incest, divorce etc.) or celebration (milestone birthdays, anniversaries, ordination, or reading Torah for the first time).\n\nAs in Orthodox Judaism, converts to Judaism through the Conservative movement are required to immerse themselves in a mikveh. Two Jews must witness the event, at least one of which must actually see the immersion. Immersion into a mikveh has been described as a very emotional, life-changing experience similar to a graduation.\n\nReform and Reconstructionist Judaism do not hold the halachic requirements of mikveh the way Orthodox Judaism does. However, there are growing trends toward using mikveh for conversions, wedding preparation, and even before holidays. In the 21st century the mikveh is experiencing a revival among progressive Jews who view immersion as a way to mark transitions in their lives. \"Open\" mikvoth welcome Jews to consider immersion for reasons not necessarily required by Jewish law; they might immerse following a divorce or medical treatment, to find closure after an abortion, or to celebrate a life transition, among other reasons. Progressive Jews may also use the mikveh for conversion.\n\nThere is supposed to be no barrier between the person immersing and the water. The person should be wearing no clothes, jewelry, makeup, nail polish, fake nails, or grooming products on the hair or skin. For more observant Jewish women, an attendant will assure these requirements are met. Showering or bathing and carefully checking the whole body is therefore part of the religious requirements before entering the water of a Mikveh for a woman.\n\nAccording to rabbinical tradition, the hair counts as part of the body, and therefore water is required to touch all parts of it, meaning that braids cannot be worn during immersion; this has resulted in debate between the various ethnic groups within Judaism, about whether hair combing is necessary before immersion. The Ashkenazi community generally supports the view that hair must be combed straight so that there are no knots, but some take issue with this stance, particularly when it comes to dreadlocks. A number of rabbinical rulings argue in support of dreadlocks, on the basis that\n\nThe word \"mikveh\" makes use of the same root letters in Hebrew as the word for \"hope\" and this has served as the basis for homiletical comparison of the two concepts in both biblical and rabbinic literature. For instance, in the Book of Jeremiah, the word \"mikveh\" is used in the sense of \"hope,\" but at the same time also associated with \"living water\":\n\nIn the Mishnah, following on from a discussion about Yom Kippur, immersion in a Mikveh is compared by Rabbi Akiva with the relationship between God and Israel. Akiva refers to the description of God in the Book of Jeremiah as the \"Mikveh of Israel\", and suggests that \"just as a mikveh purifies the contaminated, so does the Holy One, blessed is he, purify Israel\".\n\nA different allegory is used by many Jews adhering to a belief in resurrection as one of the Thirteen Principles of Faith. Since \"living water\" in a lifeless frozen state (as ice) is still likely to again become living water (after melting), it became customary in traditional Jewish bereavement rituals to read the seventh chapter of the Mikvaot tractate in the Mishnah, following a funeral; the Mikvaot tractate covers the laws of the mikveh, and the seventh chapter starts with a discussion of substances which can be used as valid water sources for a mikveh – snow, hail, frost, ice, salt, and pourable mud.\n\nThe Reform Movement’s Israel Religious Action Center sued the state on behalf of the Reform and Conservative/Masorti movements to allow members to use publicly funded mikvoth. The case, which took ten years to resolve, resulted in the Israeli Supreme Court ruling that public ritual baths must accept all prospective converts to Judaism, including converts to Reform and Conservative Judaism. In his 2016 ruling, Supreme Court Justice Elyakim Rubinstein said barring certain converts amounts to discrimination. Until this ruling Orthodox officials barred non-Orthodox converts from using any mikveh, claiming their traditions do not conform to Jewish law and the people they convert are therefore not Jews. Rubinstein noted: \"Once it established public mikvahs and put them at the service of the public — including for the process of conversion — the State cannot but be evenhanded in allowing their use,\" Rubenstein said. \"The State of Israel is free to supervise the use of its mikvahs, so long as it does so in an egalitarian manner.\"\n\nIn 2013 the Israeli Center for Women's Justice and Kolech, an organization committed to Orthodox Jewish feminism, petitioned the Supreme Court to forbid attendants from asking intrusive questions of women at state-funded and operated mikvot. In response, the Chief Rabbinate said it would forbid questioning of women about their marital status before immersion. The complaint had charged that the practice represented unacceptable discrimination.\nIn 2015, however, the ITIM Advocacy Center filed a complaint with the Israeli Supreme Court on behalf of 13 Orthodox women against the Chief Rabbinate and the Jerusalem Religious Council, insisting that women be allowed to use the mikvah \"according to their personal customs and without supervision or with their own attendant if they wish\". The complaint charged that Chief Rabbinate is ignoring directives passed in 2013 that allow women to use the mikvah facilities without being asked intrusive questions by attendants. In June 2016, the Chief Rabbinate agreed to allow women to use a mikveh without an attendant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23440661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23440661", "title": "Müezzin mahfili", "text": "Müezzin mahfili\n\nThe müezzin mahfili (Turkish), or in Arabic known as مكبرية (\"Mukabariyah\") is a special raised platform in a mosque, opposite to the minbar, where the muezzin carries out his duties to call for prayer and chants in response to the imam's prayers.\n\nNot all mosques have this as it is not a mandatory requirement for a mosque. In mosques without a \"müezzin mahfili\", the muezzin calls for prayer and does his duties behind to place of the imam beside with other worshippers. \n\nMosques which have a \"muezzin mehfili\" include the grand mosque in Mecca (Masjid al Haram) and Masjid Nabawi. The Hagia Sophia in Istanbul (pictured) was built as a Christian church but was converted to a mosque when the city was conquered by the Turks. A \"müezzin mahfili\" was added.\n"}
{"id": "38982910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38982910", "title": "Niraj Jain", "text": "Niraj Jain\n\nPandit Niraj Jain (31 October 1926 – 27 March 2013) was a scholar of Jainism, archaeologist, poet and speaker.\nHis contributions to Jain studies span nearly 60 years. He was also an expert on Urdu poetry, which is unusual for a Jain scholar.\nHe was associated with several organisations. He also lectured on the Ramayana\nHe was a proponent of preserving historical nature of ancient temples. He had travelled and lectured widely in India and overseas\n\nHe was born at Rithi, where his father Singhai Lakshmandas was an associate and follower of Ganeshprasad Varni.\nHe was largely self-taught, he continued to study throughout his life while he struggled with day-to-day running of a printing press. He earned his bachelor's degree at the age of 45 along with youngest son.\nHe was inspired by 105 Shri Ganeshprasad Varni. He sometimes accompanied him, recorded his lectures and eventually wrote the final chapter of Meri Jivan Gatha, Part II, autobiography of Ganeshprasad Varni.\n\nHe specialised in Jain archaeology and history, theory of Karma, Ahimsa and Anekanta. He was a proponent of harmony among Jains of different traditions, although he frequently engaged in theological debates. He had a keen interest in study of religion from new perspectives, Hindi and Urdu Poetry as well as journalism. He travelled extensively in India, both in North as well as South, and abroad to deliver religious discources. He visited European countries to spread the message of Non-Violence on the occasion of 2500th anniversay of the Nirvana of Bhagwan Mahaveer in 1975.\n\nHe attended 1997 Toranto and 1999 Philadelphia JAINA Conventions. He visited Many Jain Centers in North America for lectures and workshops. He participated in World Parliament of Religions at Cape Town (SA) in 1999. He wrote extensively in field of ancient Indian history, art and archaeology. His documentation and study of ancient monuments and idols have been widely used by scholars. he was an expert on Indian iconography in general and Jain Art in particular.\n\nHis sister Sumitra Bai (1928–2002), earned Sahityaratna and Vidyalankar degrees and served as the head of Jain Mahilashram in Sagar and later took diksha in 1964 and was named Aryika Vishuddhmati ji. She wrote Samadhi Deepak, Shraman Charya, Nirwan Kalyanak & Diwali Pujan Vidhi, Shravak Suman Sanchay, Trilokasara, Ashtottara-shatanama-stotram. She took sallekhana in 2002 at Nandanwan Dhariyavad (Rajsthan).\n\nHis younger brother Pandit Nirmal Jain is also a poet, author and a scholar of Jainism. He has been active in promoting vegetarianism and ahimsa.\n\nShri Niraj Jain has written more than two dozen books on various religions and spiritual topics. Some of the most popular include \n\nMore than a hundred of his articles have been published in various magazines, papers etc.He was well known orator of Jain and Hindu Philosophy and regularly invited for delivering talks. He was associated with many national committees related to Jainism such as Shree Digambar Jain Mahasabha, Akhil Bhartiya Vidwat Parishad, Shravanbelgola Managing Committee etc.\n\nHe was the first scholar to identify the Bade Baba image at Kundalpur as an image of Lord Rishabh based on the hair and images of Chakreshvari devi and Gomukha Yaksha.\n\nHere is a list of some of the Titles authored / co-authored / edited / co-edited by him:\n"}
{"id": "10232359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10232359", "title": "Panaeolus olivaceus", "text": "Panaeolus olivaceus\n\nPanaeolus olivaceus is a widely distributed, seldom identified, little brown mushroom that contains the hallucinogen psilocybin; it is often mistaken for \"Panaeolina foenisecii\" and is distinguished by its black spore print and darker gill coloration when mature alongside a slightly thicker stem. It is even more easily mistaken for \"Panaeolus cinctulus\" or \"Panaeolus fimicola\" and can be distinguished from them both by its slightly roughened spores. It is also easily confused with \"Panaeolina castaneifolia\", a species which has spores that are dark brown and significantly more roughened.\n\n\n\"Panaeolus olivaceus\" grows scattered to gregariously in rich grassy areas, from late summer through December, across North and South America, likely more widely distributed; it has been collected in the U.S. states of Washington, Oregon, Florida, Georgia, Canada's Quebec and in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "71091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71091", "title": "Peter Gandy (author)", "text": "Peter Gandy (author)\n\nPeter Gandy is a British author who focuses on mysticism, particular the mystery religions. He holds an M.A. in classical civilization and is known mainly for his books, co-authored with Timothy Freke, which argue that Jesus is a purely mythical construct.\n\n"}
{"id": "42868984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42868984", "title": "Phil Zuckerman", "text": "Phil Zuckerman\n\nPhilip Joseph Zuckerman (born June 26, 1969), known as Phil Zuckerman, is a professor of sociology and secular studies at Pitzer College in Claremont, California. He specializes in the sociology of secularity. He is the author of several books, including \"Society Without God\" (2008) for which he won \"ForeWord Magazine's\" silver book of the year award, and \"Faith No More\" (2011).\n\nBorn on June 26, 1969, in Los Angeles, California, Zuckerman grew up in Pacific Palisades and studied at Santa Monica College. He transferred to the University of Oregon in Eugene, and there earned a Bachelor of Arts (1992), Master of Arts (1995), and Doctor of Philosophy (1998), all in sociology.\n\nZuckerman is a professor of sociology and secular studies at Pitzer College in Claremont, California. He is also an affiliated adjunct professor at Claremont Graduate University. He was a guest professor at Aarhus University in Denmark in 2006 and 2010. He serves as the special series editor of the Secular Studies book series published by NYU Press. He is on the board of directors of Brighter Brains, which builds and supports orphanages, schools, and clinics in Uganda.\n\nHis research interests are secularity, atheism, apostasy, morality, and Scandinavian culture.\n\nPhil Zuckerman is the author of six books, including \"The Nonreligious\"\",\" co-authored with Luke Galen and Frank Pasquale; \"Living the Secular Life\"; \"Faith No More\"; \"Society without God\"; \"Invitation to the Sociology of Religion\"; and \"Strife in the Sanctuary\". His works have been translated into six languages, including Persian, Korean and Turkish.\n\nPhil Zuckerman's 2008 book \"Society without God\" notes that Denmark and Sweden, \"probably the least religious countries in the world, and possibly in the history of the world\", enjoy \"among the lowest violent crime rates in the world [and] the lowest levels of corruption in the world\". Zuckerman identifies that Scandinavians have \"relatively high rates of petty crime and burglary\", but \"their overall rates of violent crime—such as murder, aggravated assault, and rape—are among the lowest on earth\". In 2009, \"New York Times\" columnist Peter Steinfels commented that \"Society Without God\" provides evidence that an irreligious society can flourish. \"Society Without God\" won a “Book of the Year Silver Award” by \"Foreword Magazine\" in 2008 and was featured in \"The\" \"New York Times\" in an article by Peter Steinfel.\n\nZuckerman's \"Living the Secular Life: New Answers to Old Questions\" was released in 2014 and reviewed in \"The New York Times\" by Susan Jacoby. \"Living the Secular Life\" was designated a \"Best Book of 2014\" by \"Publishers Weekly\" and was featured in a commentary by \"New York Times\" columnist David Brooks.\n\nThe American Humanist Association has featured Zuckerman as a speaker on rising irreligion in the United States. Zuckerman is on the editorial board of \"Secularism and Nonreligion\" and is a convener of the \"Non-religion and Secularity Research Network\" conference.\n\nZuckerman has said that 20 percent of the United States are irreligious and 30 percent of citizens under 30 are. Zuckerman has commented that religion is often conflated with patriotism in the United States. He has stated that while \"he applauds the passion and purpose\" of American Atheists, they are a minority, as the majority of atheists in America \"are not angry, do not hate religion and do not need a forum to vent\".\n\nZuckerman has found that murder rates in Scandinavian countries lowered after abolishing the death penalty, and has opposed the use in the United States.\n\nZuckerman has found that the religiously unaffiliated tend to be more inclined to progressive politics, and the decline in Protestant Christianity in America is a blow to conservative causes. Zuckerman has commented on the rise of secular Judaism. Zuckerman commented that growing atheist movements in the United States were a response to the impact of the Christian right.\n\nIn 2011 he founded and currently chairs the first secular studies program. When the secular studies program was announced, the Institute for the Study of Secularism in Society and Culture at Trinity College noted it was the first program to offer a degree in secular studies. The program lets students major in secular studies, including in a core course \"Sociology of Secularity\". The first student to graduate from Pitzer College with a degree in secular studies was the first student in the United States with such a major.\n\nZuckerman lives in Claremont, California, with his wife and three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4105842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4105842", "title": "Philip Carr-Gomm", "text": "Philip Carr-Gomm\n\nPhilip Carr-Gomm (born 1952) is an author in the fields of psychology and Druidry, a psychologist, and one of the leaders and Chosen Chief of The Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids.\n\nPhilip Carr-Gomm was born in London, raised in Notting Hill Gate, and educated at Westminster School and University College London. His father was Francis Eardley Carr-Gomm, brother of humanitarian Richard Carr-Gomm.\n\nHe met his first spiritual teacher, Ross Nichols, the founder of The Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids, when he was 11. He began studying with him when a teenager, and joined the Order when he was 18. He studied meditation with Olivia Robertson in Ireland, who later founded the Fellowship of Isis, and in his twenties he founded The Esoteric Society in London, which organised journeys for members to Bulgaria and Egypt, and hosted talks by well-known authors such as Gareth Knight, W. E. Butler, and Arthur Guirdham.\n\nIn 1975 Nichols died, and Carr-Gomm followed a Bulgarian teacher, Omraam Mikhael Aivanhov for seven years, giving talks on his teachings and helping with the translation and publishing of his books into English. He also travelled to Bulgaria and studied the work of Aivanhov's teacher, Peter Deunov, visiting Sofia annually for fourteen years, teaching Deunov's Paneurhythmy dance in England and at Findhorn in Scotland. In his thirties he turned to a study of psychology, taking a BSc degree at University College London and Jungian analysis, with plans to become an analyst. On discovering Psychosynthesis, he trained instead as a therapist at the Institute of Psychosynthesis in London and began a private practice.\n\nIn 1988 he was asked to lead the Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids. He organised the Order's teachings into a distance-learning course, and edited Nichols' \"Book of Druidry\" with John Matthews. Since that time, the Order has grown to become the largest Druid teaching order in the world, with Professor of History Ronald Hutton writing that 'the OBOD correspondence course arguably represents one of the major documents of British spirituality from the late twentieth century'.\n\n\"Druidcraft\" is a spiritual practice embracing elements of both Druidry and Wicca, developed by Philip Carr-Gomm, and is also the title of a book he wrote about the same topic. That book deals with the combination of druidry and wicca in a new, combined practice. Within this book, Carr-Gomm claims that the differences between Wicca and Druidry do not stem from hundreds or thousands of years worth of tradition as these two distinct paths evolved separately. He claims that in fact the differences between modern Wicca and Druidism are due to the differences between two friends, Gerald Gardner and Ross Nichols who were deeply involved with these paths less than 75 years ago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4076494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4076494", "title": "Pierre de Jarric", "text": "Pierre de Jarric\n\nPierre de Jarric (1566 – 2 March 1617) was a French Catholic missionary writer from Toulouse.\n\nJarric entered the Society of Jesus on 8 December 1582 and taught philosophy and moral theology at Bordeaux for many years. Although he desired to join the missionaries of his order, his wish was not fulfilled. Instead, he dedicated himself to writing on their behalf. The result was \"Histoire des choses plus memorables advenues tant ez Indes orientales, que autres païs de la descouverte des Portugois\", which appeared in three parts: the second of which appeared in 1610 and the third in 1614.\n\nJarric's work gives a comprehensive picture of the missionary enterprises of the Jesuits up to 1610, chiefly within the sphere of Portuguese interests. It contains much valuable data on colonial history, geography, and ethnography, taken from Spanish and Portuguese reports, and from the works of Father Luis de Guzman (\"Hist. de las Missiones que han hecho los religiosos de la Compañia de Jesús\"), and of Father Ferdinand Guerreiro (\"Relação Annal das cousas que fizeram os Padres da companhia de Jesus na India e Japão, Brazil, Angola, Cabo Verde, Guiné\"). By dedicating the second part to King Louis XIII, Jarric hoped to encourage the French king to imitate Spain and Portugal in their colonization efforts. His work was frequently reprinted and widely circulated, particularly after it was translated into Latin by Martino Martinez III around 1615. Jarric died in Saintes two years later.\n"}
{"id": "39660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39660", "title": "Pope Benedict XVI", "text": "Pope Benedict XVI\n\nPope Benedict XVI (; ; ; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger; ; 16 April 1927) served as Pope and sovereign of the Vatican City State from 2005 until his resignation in 2013. Benedict's election occurred in the 2005 papal conclave that followed the death of Pope John Paul II. The Vatican announced his withdrawal by bestowing him the title Pope Emeritus shortly after his resignation.\n\nOrdained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria, Ratzinger had established himself as a highly regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958. After a long career as an academic and professor of theology at several German universities, he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and Cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977, an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience. In 1981, he was appointed Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia. From 2002 until his election as Pope, he was also Dean of the College of Cardinals. Prior to becoming Pope, he was \"a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century\"; he had an influence \"second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions\" as one of John Paul II's closest confidants. He has lived in Rome since 1981.\n\nHe was originally a liberal theologian, but adopted conservative views after 1968. His prolific writings defend traditional Catholic doctrine and values. During his papacy, Benedict XVI advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased secularisation of many Western countries. He views relativism's denial of objective truth, and the denial of moral truths in particular, as the central problem of the 21st century. He taught the importance of both the Catholic Church and an understanding of God's redemptive love. Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions, including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position. He strengthened the relationship between the Catholic Church and art, promoted the use of Latin, and reintroduced traditional papal garments, for which reason he was called \"the pope of aesthetics\". He has been described as \"the main intellectual force in the Church\" since the mid-1980s.\n\nOn 11 February 2013, Benedict unexpectedly announced his resignation in a speech in Latin before the cardinals, citing a \"lack of strength of mind and body\" due to his advanced age. His resignation became effective on 28 February 2013. He is the first Pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415, and the first to do so on his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294. As Pope Emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His Holiness, and the title of Pope, and continues to dress in the papal colour of white. He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013, and he moved into the newly renovated monastery \"Mater Ecclesiae\" for his retirement on 2 May 2013. In his retirement, Benedict XVI has made occasional public appearances alongside Pope Francis.\n\nJoseph Aloisius Ratzinger was born on 16 April, Holy Saturday, 1927, at Schulstraße 11, at 8:30 in the morning in his parents' home in Marktl, Bavaria, Germany. He was baptised the same day. He is the third and youngest child of Joseph Ratzinger, Sr., a police officer, and Maria Ratzinger (née Peintner); his grand-uncle was the German priest-politician Georg Ratzinger. His mother's family was originally from South Tyrol (now in Italy). Pope Benedict's elder brother, Georg Ratzinger, is a Catholic priest and is the former director of the Regensburger Domspatzen choir. His sister, Maria Ratzinger, who never married, managed Cardinal Ratzinger's household until her death in 1991.\n\nAt the age of five, Ratzinger was in a group of children who welcomed the visiting Cardinal Archbishop of Munich, Michael von Faulhaber, with flowers. Struck by the cardinal's distinctive garb, he announced later that day that he wanted to be a cardinal. He attended the elementary school in Aschau am Inn, which was renamed in his honour in 2009.\n\nRatzinger's family, especially his father, bitterly resented the Nazis, and his father's opposition to Nazism resulted in demotions and harassment of the family. Following his 14th birthday in 1941, Ratzinger was conscripted into the Hitler Youth—as membership was required by law for all 14-year-old German boys after March 1939—but was an unenthusiastic member who refused to attend meetings, according to his brother. In 1941, one of Ratzinger's cousins, a 14-year-old boy with Down syndrome, was taken away by the Nazi regime and murdered during the Action T4 campaign of Nazi eugenics. In 1943, while still in seminary, he was drafted into the German anti-aircraft corps as Luftwaffenhelfer. Ratzinger then trained in the German infantry. As the Allied front drew closer to his post in 1945, he deserted back to his family's home in Traunstein after his unit had ceased to exist, just as American troops established a headquarters in the Ratzinger household. As a German soldier, he was interned in a prisoner of war camp, but released a few months later at the end of the war in May 1945.\n\nRatzinger and his brother Georg entered Saint Michael Seminary in Traunstein in November 1945, later studying at the Ducal Georgianum (\"Herzogliches Georgianum\") of the Ludwig-Maximilian University in Munich. They were both ordained in Freising on 29 June 1951 by Cardinal Michael von Faulhaber of Munich. Ratzinger recalled: \"at the moment the elderly Archbishop laid his hands on me, a little bird – perhaps a lark – flew up from the altar in the high cathedral and trilled a little joyful song.\"\n\nRatzinger's 1953 dissertation was on St. Augustine and was titled \"The People and the House of God in Augustine's Doctrine of the Church\". His habilitation (which qualified him for a professorship) was on Bonaventure. It was completed in 1957 and he became a professor of Freising College in 1958.\n\nIn his early twenties, he was deeply influenced by the thought of Italian German Romano Guardini who taught in Munich 1946 to 1951 when Ratzinger was studying in Freising and later at the University of Munich. The intellectual affinity between these two thinkers, who would later become decisive figures for the twentieth-century Church, was preoccupied with rediscovering the essential in Christianity. Guardini with his 1938 tome \"The Essence of Christianity,\" while Ratzinger penned \"Introduction to Christianity,\" three decades later in 1968. Guardini inspired many in the Catholic social-democratic tradition, particularly the Communion and Liberation movement in the \"New Evangelization\" encouraged under the papacy of Polish Pope John Paul II. At the close of the twentieth the future Cardinal Ratzinger would write an introduction to a 1996 reissue of Guardini's 1954 classic \"The Lord\".\n\nRatzinger became a professor at the University of Bonn in 1959, his inaugural lecture was on \"The God of Faith and the God of Philosophy\". In 1963, he moved to the University of Münster. During this period, he participated in the Second Vatican Council (1962–65) and served as a \"peritus\" (theological consultant) to Cardinal Frings of Cologne. He was viewed during the time of the Council as a reformer, cooperating with theologians like Hans Küng and Edward Schillebeeckx. Ratzinger became an admirer of Karl Rahner, a well-known academic theologian of the Nouvelle Théologie and a proponent of church reform.\n\nIn 1966, Ratzinger was appointed to a chair in dogmatic theology at the University of Tübingen, where he was a colleague of Hans Küng. In his 1968 book \"Introduction to Christianity\", he wrote that the pope has a duty to hear differing voices within the Church before making a decision, and he downplayed the centrality of the papacy. During this time, he distanced himself from the atmosphere of Tübingen and the Marxist leanings of the student movement of the 1960s that quickly radicalised, in the years 1967 and 1968, culminating in a series of disturbances and riots in April and May 1968. Ratzinger came increasingly to see these and associated developments (such as decreasing respect for authority among his students) as connected to a departure from traditional Catholic teachings. Despite his reformist bent, his views increasingly came to contrast with the liberal ideas gaining currency in theological circles.\n\nSome voices, among them Küng, deem this a turn towards conservatism, while Ratzinger himself said in a 1993 interview, \"I see no break in my views as a theologian [over the years]\". Ratzinger continued to defend the work of the Second Vatican Council, including \"Nostra aetate,\" the document on respect of other religions, ecumenism and the declaration of the right to freedom of religion. Later, as the Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Ratzinger most clearly spelled out the Catholic Church's position on other religions in the 2000 document \"Dominus Iesus\" which also talks about the Catholic way to engage in \"ecumenical dialogue\". During his time at Tübingen University, Ratzinger published articles in the reformist theological journal \"Concilium\", though he increasingly chose less reformist themes than other contributors to the magazine such as Küng and Schillebeeckx.\n\nIn 1969, he returned to Bavaria, to the University of Regensburg and co-founded the theological journal \"Communio\", with Hans Urs von Balthasar, Henri de Lubac, Walter Kasper and others, in 1972. \"Communio\", now published in seventeen languages, including German, English and Spanish, has become a prominent journal of contemporary Catholic theological thought. Until his election as pope, he remained one of the journal's most prolific contributors. In 1976, he suggested that the Augsburg Confession might possibly be recognised as a Catholic statement of faith. Several of Benedict's former students became his confidantes, notably Christoph Schönborn, and a number of his former students sometimes meet for discussions. He served as Vice President of the University of Regensburg from 1976 to 1977.\n\nOn 24 March 1977, Ratzinger was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising. He took as his episcopal motto \"Cooperatores Veritatis\" (Co-workers of the Truth) from 3 John 8, a choice he comments upon in his autobiographical work, \"Milestones\".\nIn the consistory of the following 27 June, he was named Cardinal-Priest of Santa Maria Consolatrice al Tiburtino by Pope Paul VI. By the time of the 2005 Conclave, he was one of only 14 remaining cardinals appointed by Paul VI, and one of only three of those under the age of 80. Of these, only he and William Wakefield Baum took part in the conclave.\n\nOn 25 November 1981, Pope John Paul II, upon the retirement of Franjo Šeper, named Ratzinger as the Prefect of the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, formerly known as the \"Sacred Congregation of the Holy Office\", the historical Roman Inquisition. Consequently, he resigned his post at Munich in early 1982. He was promoted within the College of Cardinals to become Cardinal Bishop of Velletri-Segni in 1993 and was made the college's vice-dean in 1998 and dean in 2002. Just a year after its foundation in 1990 Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger joined\nthe European Academy of Sciences and Arts in Salzburg/Austria in 1991.\n\nRatzinger defended and reaffirmed Catholic doctrine, including teaching on topics such as birth control, homosexuality and inter-religious dialogue. The theologian Leonardo Boff, for example, was suspended, while others such as Matthew Fox were censured. Other issues also prompted condemnations or revocations of rights to teach: for instance, some posthumous writings of Jesuit priest Anthony de Mello were the subject of a notification. Ratzinger and the congregation viewed many of them, particularly the later works, as having an element of religious indifferentism (\"i.e.\", Christ was \"one master alongside others\"). In particular, \"Dominus Iesus\", published by the congregation in the jubilee year 2000, reaffirmed many recently \"unpopular\" ideas, including the Catholic Church's position that \"Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to men by which we must be saved.\" The document angered many Protestant churches by claiming that they are not actually churches, but \"ecclesial communities\".\n\nRatzinger's 2001 letter \"De delictis gravioribus\" clarified the confidentiality of internal church investigations, as defined in the 1962 document \"Crimen Sollicitationis\", into accusations made against priests of certain crimes, including sexual abuse. This became a subject of controversy during the sex abuse cases. For 20 years, Ratzinger had been the man in charge of enforcing the document.\n\nOne of the cases Ratzinger pursued involved Father Marcial Maciel Degollado, a Mexican priest and founder of the Legion of Christ, who had been accused repeatedly of sexual abuse. Biographer Andrea Tornielli suggested that Cardinal Ratzinger had wanted to take action against Marcial Maciel Degollado, but that John Paul II and other high-ranking officials, including several cardinals and notably the Pope's influential secretary Stanisław Dziwisz, prevented him from doing so. According to Jason Berry, Angelo Sodano \"pressured\" Cardinal Ratzinger, who was \"operating on the assumption that the charges were not justified\", to halt the proceedings against Maciel in 1999 When Maciel was honored by the Pope in 2004, new accusers came forward and Cardinal Ratzinger \"took it on himself to authorize an investigation of Maciel\" After Ratzinger became pope he began proceedings against Maciel and the Legion of Christ that forced Maciel out of active service in the Church. On 1 May 2010 the Vatican issued a statement denouncing Maciel's \"very serious and objectively immoral acts\", which were \"confirmed by incontrovertible testimonies\" and represent \"true crimes and manifest a life without scruples or authentic religious sentiment.\" Pope Benedict also said he would appoint a special commission to examine the Legionaries' constitution and open an investigation into its lay affiliate Regnum Christi. Cardinal Christoph Schönborn explained that Ratzinger \"made entirely clear efforts not to cover things up but to tackle and investigate them. This was not always met with approval in the Vatican\". According to Schönborn, Cardinal Ratzinger had pressed John Paul II to investigate Hans Hermann Groër, an Austrian cardinal and friend of John Paul accused of sexual abuse, resulting in Groër's resignation.\n\nIn March 2010, the Pope sent a Pastoral Letter to the Catholic Church in Ireland addressing cases of sexual abuse by Catholic priests to minors, expressing sorrow, and promising changes in the way accusations of abuse are dealt with. Victim groups claim the letter failed to clarify if secular law enforcement has priority over canon law confidentiality pertaining to internal investigation of abuse allegations. The Pope then promised to introduce measures that would 'safeguard young people in the future' and 'bring to justice' priests who were responsible for abuse. In April, the Vatican issued guidelines on how existing Church law should be implemented. The guideline dictates that \"Civil law concerning reporting of crimes... should always be followed.\" The guideline was intended to follow the norms established by U.S. bishops, but it does not require the reporting of \"allegations\" or crimes where reporting is not required by law.\n\nPope Benedict XVI re-introduced several papal garments which had fallen into disuse. Pope Benedict XVI resumed the use of the traditional red papal shoes, which had been used since Roman times by popes but which had fallen into disuse during the pontificate of Pope John Paul II. Contrary to the initial speculation of the press that the shoes had been made by the Italian fashion house Prada, the Vatican announced that the shoes were provided by the Pope's personal shoemaker.\n\nOn only one occasion, 21 December 2005, the Pope wore the camauro, the traditional red papal hat usually worn in the winter. It had not been seen since the pontificate of Pope John XXIII (1958–1963). On 6 September 2006, the Pope began wearing the red cappello romano (also called a saturno), a wide-brimmed hat for outdoor use. Rarely used by John Paul II, it was more widely worn by his predecessors.\n\nThe journalist Charlotte Allen describes Benedict as \"the pope of aesthetics\": \"He has reminded a world that looks increasingly ugly and debased that there is such a thing as the beautiful—whether it's embodied in a sonata or an altarpiece or an embroidered cope or the cut of a cassock—and that earthly beauty ultimately communicates a beauty that is beyond earthly things.\"\n\nPrior to his election as pope in 2005, Ratzinger had hoped to retire—on account of age-related health problems, a long-held desire to have free time to write, and the retirement age for bishops (75)—and submitted his resignation as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith three times, but continued at his post in obedience to the wishes of Pope John Paul II. In September 1991, Ratzinger suffered a hemorrhagic stroke, which slightly impaired his eyesight temporarily but he recovered completely. This was never officially made public—the official news was that Ratzinger had fallen and struck his head against a radiator—but was an open secret known to the conclave that elected him pope.\n\nFollowing his election in April 2005 there were several rumors about the Pope's health, but none of them were confirmed. Early in his pontificate Benedict XVI predicted a short reign, which led to concerns about his health. In May 2005 the Vatican announced that he had suffered another mild stroke. French Cardinal Philippe Barbarin said that since the first stroke Ratzinger had been suffering from an age-related heart condition, for which he was on medication. In late November 2006 Vatican insiders told the international press that the Pope had had a routine examination of the heart. A few days later an unconfirmed rumor emerged that Pope Benedict had undergone an operation in preparation for an eventual bypass operation, but this rumor was only published by a small left-wing Italian newspaper and was never confirmed by any Vatican insider.\n\nOn 17 July 2009, Benedict was hospitalized after falling and breaking his right wrist while on vacation in the Alps; his injuries were reported to be minor.\n\nFollowing the announcement of his resignation, the Vatican revealed that Pope Benedict had been fitted with a pacemaker while he was still a cardinal, before his election as pope in 2005. The battery in the pacemaker had been replaced three months earlier, a routine procedure, but that did not influence his decision.\n\nCurrently, Benedict has multiple health problems including high blood pressure and reportedly has fallen out of bed more than once, but the Vatican denies any specific illnesses.\n\nOn 11 February 2013, the Vatican confirmed that Benedict XVI would resign the papacy on 28 February 2013, as a result of his advanced age, becoming the first pope to resign since Gregory XII in 1415. At the age of 85 years and 318 days on the effective date of his retirement, he was the fourth-oldest person to hold the office of pope. The move was unexpected. In modern times, all popes have held office until death. Benedict was the first pope to resign without external pressure since Celestine V in 1294.\n\nIn his declaration of 10 Feb 2013, Benedict resigned as \"Bishop of Rome, Successor of Saint Peter\".\n\nIn a statement, Benedict cited his deteriorating strength and the physical and mental demands of the papacy; addressing his cardinals in Latin, Benedict gave a brief statement announcing his resignation. He also declared that he would continue to serve the church \"through a life dedicated to prayer\".\n\nAccording to a statement from the Vatican, the timing of the resignation was not caused by any specific illness but was to \"avoid that exhausting rush of Easter engagements\". After two weeks of ceremonial farewells, the Pope left office at the appointed time and \"sede vacante\" was declared.\n\nOn the eve of the first anniversary of Benedict's resignation he wrote to \"La Stampa\" to deny speculation he had been forced to step down. \"There isn't the slightest doubt about the validity of my resignation from the Petrine ministry,\" he wrote in a letter to the newspaper. \"The only condition for the validity is the full freedom of the decision. Speculation about its invalidity is simply absurd,\" he wrote.\n\nOn the morning of 28 February 2013, Pope Benedict met with the full College of Cardinals and in the early afternoon flew by helicopter to the papal summer residence of Castel Gandolfo. He stayed there until refurbishment was completed on his retirement home, the Mater Ecclesiae monastery in the Vatican Gardens near St Peter's, formerly home to 12 nuns, where he moved on 2 May 2013. To protect it, there is a thick hedge and a fence. It has a garden of more than 2,000 square meters that overlooks the monastery and is adjacent to the current \"Pope's garden\". A few tens of meters away is the building of Vatican Radio.\n\nAfter his resignation, Benedict XVI retained his papal name rather than reverting to his birth name. He continued to wear the white cassock but without the pellegrina or the fascia. He ceased wearing red papal shoes. Benedict returned his official Fisherman's Ring, which is usually destroyed by Vatican officials on the death of a pope to prevent documents being counterfeited.\n\nAccording to a Vatican spokesman, Benedict spent his first day as pope emeritus with Archbishop Georg Gänswein, the Prefect of the Papal Household. In the monastery, the pope emeritus does not live a cloistered life, but studies and writes. The pope emeritus joined his successor several months after his election at the unveiling of a new statue of Saint Michael the Archangel. The inscription on the statue, according to Cardinal Giovanni Lajolo, has the coat of arms of the two popes to symbolize the fact that statue was commissioned by Benedict XVI, and consecrated by Francis.\n\nBenedict XVI made his first public appearance after his resignation at St. Peter's Basilica on 22 February 2014 to attend the first papal consistory of his successor Pope Francis. Benedict XVI, who entered the basilica through a discreet entrance, was seated in a row with several other cardinals. He doffed his zucchetto when Pope Francis came down the nave of St. Peter's Basilica to greet him. He then made an appearance at the canonization mass of Pope John XXIII and Pope John Paul II, greeting the cardinals and Pope Francis.\n\nIn August 2014, Benedict XVI celebrated Mass at the Vatican and met with his former doctoral students, an annual tradition he has kept since the 1970s. He attended the beatification of Pope Paul VI in October 2014. Weeks before this, he joined Pope Francis in Saint Peter's Square for an audience with grandparents to honor their importance in society.\n\nBenedict wrote the text of a speech, delivered by Archbishop Georg Gänswein, on the occasion of the dedication of the Aula Magna at the Pontifical Urbaniana University to the Pope Emeritus, \"a gesture of gratitude for what he has done for the Church as a conciliar expert, with his teaching as professor, as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and, finally, the Magisterium.\" The ceremony took place on Tuesday, 21 October 2014 during the opening of the academic year.\n\nBenedict XVI attended the consistory for new cardinals in February 2015, greeting Pope Francis at the beginning of the celebration. In 2015, Benedict XVI, who now prefers to be known as \"Father Benedict\", spent the summer at Castel Gandolfo and participated in two public events. \"Pope Francis invited Benedict XVI to spend some time in Castel Gandolfo in the month of July and Benedict accepted\", Fr. Lombardi told journalists on 15 June. Benedict XVI remained there for two weeks. While in Castel Gandolfo, Benedict XVI received two honorary doctorates, given to him by Kraków's Cardinal Stanislaw Dziwisz, John Paul II's longtime aide, from the Pontifical University of John Paul II and the Kraków Academy of Music. In his reception address, Benedict XVI paid homage to his predecessor, John Paul II.\n\nThe \"Joseph Ratzinger–Benedict XVI Roman Library\" at the Pontifical Teutonic College was announced in April 2015 and is scheduled to open to scholars in November 2015. The library section dedicated to his life and thought is being catalogued. It includes books by or about him and his studies, many donated by Benedict XVI himself.\n\nBenedict XVI, in August 2015, submitted a handwritten card to act as a testimony to the cause of canonization of Pope John Paul I.\n\nIn March 2016, he gave an interview expressing his views on mercy and endorsing Pope Francis's stress on mercy in his pastoral practice. Also that month, a Vatican spokesman stated that Benedict XVI was \"slowly, serenely fading\" in his physical health, although his mental capacity remained \"perfectly lucid\".\n\nThe pope emeritus was honoured by the Roman Curia and Pope Francis in 2016 at a special audience, honouring the 65th anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood. Benedict XVI, later that year in November, did not attend the consistory for new cardinals, though he did meet with them and Pope Francis at his residence after the consistory had taken place.\n\nOn 28 June 2017, the Pope Emeritus received the newly created cardinals in his chapel and \"spoke with all of them in their native tongue\" while also remarking that they were \"from the four continents, the whole church\". He further said that \"The Lord wins in the end\" and \"thank you all\", he said, before giving them his blessing.\n\nIn July 2017, Benedict XVI sent a message through his private secretary Monsignor Gänswein for the occasion of the funeral of Cardinal Joachim Meisner, who had suddenly passed away while on vacation in Germany. In his message, the Pope Emeritus referred to Meisner as a \"passionate shepherd and pastor\" who found it \"difficult to leave his post\". The former pope also said that he had spoken on the telephone with Meisner the day before the latter died and related that Meisner was grateful to be on vacation after having been present for the beatification of Teofilius Matulionis in Vilnius.\n\nIn November 2017, images emerged on the Facebook page of the Bishop of Passau Stefan Oster of Benedict XVI with a black eye; the bishop and author Peter Seewald visited the former pope on 26 October since the pair were presenting Benedict XVI with the new book \"Benedict XVI – The German Pope\" which the Passau diocese created. The former pope suffered the hematoma earlier after having slipped.\n\nThe official style of the former Pope in English is \"His Holiness Benedict XVI, Supreme Pontiff Emeritus\" or \"Pope Emeritus\". Less formally he is referred to as Emeritus Pope or Roman Pontifex Emeritus.\n\nAs Pope, his rarely used full title was:His Holiness Benedict XVI, Bishop of Rome, Vicar of Jesus Christ, Successor of the Prince of the Apostles, Supreme Pontiff of the Universal Church, Primate of Italy, Archbishop and Metropolitan of the Roman Province, Sovereign of the Vatican City State, Servant of the servants of God.The best-known title, that of \"Pope\", does not appear in the official list of titles, but is commonly used in the titles of documents, and appears, in abbreviated form, in their signatures as \"PP.\" standing for \"Papa\" (\"Pope\").\n\nBefore 1 March 2006, the list of titles also used to contain that of a \"Patriarch of the West\", which traditionally appeared in that list of titles before \"Primate of Italy\". The title of \"Patriarch of the West\" was first introduced into the papal court in 1870 at the time of the First Vatican Council in the publication \"Annuario Pontificio\" and was removed in the 2006 edition. Pope Benedict chose to remove the title at a time when discussions with the Orthodox churches have centered on the issue of papal primacy.\n\nIn 2005, the Pope listed several ways to combat the spread of HIV, including chastity, fidelity in marriage and anti-poverty efforts; he also rejected the use of condoms. The alleged Vatican investigation of whether there are any cases when married persons may use condoms to protect against the spread of infections surprised many Catholics in the wake of John Paul II's consistent refusal to consider condom use in response to AIDS. However, the Vatican has since stated that no such change in the Church's teaching can occur. \"TIME\" also reported in its edition of 30 April 2006 that the Vatican's position remains what it always has been with Vatican officials \"flatly dismiss[ing] reports that the Vatican is about to release a document that will condone any condom use.\"\n\nIn March 2009, the Pope stated:\nI would say that this problem of AIDS cannot be overcome merely with money, necessary though it is. If there is no human dimension, if Africans do not help, the problem cannot be overcome by the distribution of prophylactics: on the contrary, they increase it. The solution must have two elements: firstly, bringing out the human dimension of sexuality, that is to say a spiritual and human renewal that would bring with it a new way of behaving towards others, and secondly, true friendship offered above all to those who are suffering, a willingness to make sacrifices and to practise self-denial, to be alongside the suffering.\n\nIn November 2010, in a book-length interview, the Pope, using the example of male prostitutes, stated that the use of condoms, with the intention of reducing the risk of HIV infection, may be an indication that the prostitute is intending to reduce the evil connected with his immoral activity. In the same interview, the Pope also reiterated the traditional teaching of the Church that condoms are not seen as a \"real or moral solution\" to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Further, in December 2010, the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith explained that the Pope's statement did not constitute a legitimization of either contraception or prostitution, which remains gravely immoral.\n\nDuring his time as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF), Benedict XVI made several efforts to tackle the issue of homosexuality within the Church and the wider world. In 1986 the CDF sent a letter to all bishops entitled: \"On the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons\". The letter condemned a liberal interpretation of the earlier CDF document \"Declaration on Certain Questions Concerning Sexual Ethics\", which had led to a \"benign\" attitude \"to the homosexual condition itself\". \"On the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons\" clarified that the Church's position on homosexuality was that \"although the particular inclination of the homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil; and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder.\" However the document also condemned homophobic attacks and violence, stating that \"It is deplorable that homosexual persons have been and are the object of violent malice in speech or in action. Such treatment deserves condemnation from the Church's pastors wherever it occurs.\"\n\nIn 1992, he again approved CDF documents declaring that homosexual \"inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder\" and extended this principle to civil law. \"Sexual orientation\", the document said, was not equivalent to race or ethnicity, and it declared that it was \"not unjust discrimination to take sexual orientation into account.\"\n\nOn 22 December 2008, the Pope gave an end of year message to the Roman Curia in which he talked about gender and the important distinction between men and women. The Pope said that the church viewed the distinction as central to human nature, and \"asks that this order of creation be respected\". The church, he said, must \"protect man from self-destruction.\" He said \"something like a human ecology\" was needed, adding: \"Rain forests deserve indeed to be protected, but no less so does man\". He attacked gender theories which he described as \"man's attempt at self-emancipation from creation and the Creator.\"\n\nLGBT groups such as the Italian Arcigay and German LSVD have announced that they found the Pope's comments homophobic. Aurelio Mancuso, head of Arcigay, saying \"A divine programme for men and women is out of line with nature, where the roles are not so clear.\" Canadian author Daniel Gawthrop, in a critical biography, \"The Trial of Pope Benedict\", said that the Pope blamed homosexuality \"for a problem the church had willingly enabled for hundreds of years.\"\n\nFather Federico Lombardi, a Vatican spokesman, claimed the Pope had not wished specifically to attack people with homosexual inclinations, and had not mentioned gays or lesbians in his text. Father Lombardi insisted, however, that there had been an overreaction to the Pope's remarks: \"He was speaking more generally about gender theories which overlook the fundamental difference in creation between men and women and focus instead on cultural conditioning.\" Nevertheless, the remarks were interpreted as a call to save mankind from homosexuals and transsexuals.\n\nDuring a 2012 Christmas speech, the Pope made remarks about the present-day interpretation of the notion of \"gender\". He stated that \"sex is no longer a given element of nature, that man has to accept and personally make sense of: it is a social role that we choose for ourselves\", and \"The words of the creation account: \"male and female he created them\" (Gen 1:27) no longer apply\". Although he didn't mention the topic, his words were interpreted by news media as denunciations of same-sex marriage, with some sources adding that Benedict would have called it a threat to world peace similar to abortion and euthanasia. In March 2012, he stated that heterosexual marriages should be defended from \"every possible misrepresentation of their true nature\".\n\nIn a message released 14 November 2006, during a Vatican press conference for the 2007 annual observance of World Day for Migrants and Refugees, the Pope urged the ratification of international conventions and policies that defend all migrants, including refugees, exiles, evacuees and internally displaced persons. \"The church encourages the ratification of the international legal instruments that aim to defend the rights of migrants, refugees and their families,\" the Pope said. \"Much is already being done for the integration of the families of immigrants, although much still remains to be done.\"\nPope Benedict also promoted various UN events, such as World Refugee Day, on which he offered up special prayers for refugees and called for the international community to do more to secure refugees' human rights. He also called on Catholic communities and organizations to offer them concrete help.\n\nIn 2015, it was reported that the Pope was \"praying for migrants and refugees\" from Syria.\n\nIn 2007, Benedict sent a letter at Easter to Catholics in China that could have wide-ranging implications for the church's relationship with China's leadership. The letter provides long-requested guidance to Chinese bishops on how to respond to illicitly ordained bishops, as well as how to strengthen ties with the Patriotic Association and the Communist government.\n\nOn 13 November 2006, Benedict said that the dispute over the North Korea nuclear weapons program should be resolved through negotiations, in his first public comment on the security issue, a news report said. \"The Holy See encourages bilateral or multilateral negotiations, convinced that the solution must be sought through peaceful means and in respect for agreements taken by all sides to obtain the denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula.\" Benedict was talking to the new Japanese ambassador to the Vatican.\n\nIn a 2004 \"Le Figaro\" interview, Ratzinger said that Turkey, which is demographically Muslim but governmentally secular by virtue of its state constitution, should seek its future in an association of Muslim nations rather than the European Union, which Ratzinger stated has Christian roots. He said Turkey had always been \"in permanent contrast to Europe and that linking it to Europe would be a mistake\".\n\nLater visiting the country to \"reiterate the solidarity between the cultures,\" it was reported that he made a counter-statement backing Turkey's bid to join the EU. Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, said that the Pope told him in their meeting that while the Vatican seeks to stay out of politics it desires Turkey's membership in the EU. However, the Common Declaration of Pope Benedict XVI and Patriarch Bartholomew I of Constantinople implied that support for Turkey's membership in the European Union would be contingent on the establishment of religious freedom in Turkey: \"In every step towards unification, minorities must be protected, with their cultural traditions and the distinguishing features of their religion.\" The Declaration also reiterates Pope Benedict XVI's call for Europe to preserve its Christian roots.\n\nIn May 2009, he visited Israel. This was the third Papal visit to the Holy Land, the previous ones being made by Pope Paul VI in 1964 and Pope John Paul II in 2000.\n\nPope Benedict XVI and Prime Minister Nguyễn Tấn Dũng met at the Vatican on 25 January 2007 in a \"new and important step towards establishing diplomatic ties\". The Pope met with President Nguyễn Minh Triết on 11 December 2009. Vatican officials called the meeting \"a significant stage in the progress of bilateral relations with Vietnam.\"\n\nIn 2009, the Pope intervened in global economic and political affairs with his third encyclical, \"Charity in Truth\" (Latin \"Caritas in veritate\"), which can be viewed on the Vatican's web site.\nThis document set out the then reigning Pope's position on the case for worldwide redistribution of wealth in considerable detail and goes on to discuss the environment, migration, terrorism, sexual tourism, bioethics, energy and population issues. \"The Financial Times\" reported that Benedict XVI's advocacy for a fairer redistribution of wealth helped set the agenda for the 2009 July G8 summit.\n\nAlso included in \"Charity in Truth\" is advocacy for tax choice:\nOne possible approach to development aid would be to apply effectively what is known as fiscal subsidiarity, allowing citizens to decide how to allocate a portion of the taxes they pay to the State. Provided it does not degenerate into the promotion of special interests, this can help to stimulate forms of welfare solidarity from below, with obvious benefits in the area of solidarity for development as well.\n\nPope Benedict XVI called for nuclear disarmament. At the same time, he supported the peaceful use of nuclear energy as a tool for development and the fight against poverty. In his message for the 50th anniversary of the founding of the International Atomic Energy Agency, he confirmed: \"The Holy See, fully approving of the IAEA's goal, has been a member from the organisation's foundation and continues to support its activity.\"\n\nBenedict is known to be deeply interested in classical music, and is an accomplished pianist. The Pontiff Emeritus' favorite composer is Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, of whose music the Pope said, \"His music is by no means just entertainment; it contains the whole tragedy of human existence.\" Benedict also stated that Mozart's music affected him greatly as a young man and \"deeply penetrated his soul\". Benedict's favorite works of music are Mozart's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet. He recorded an album of contemporary classical music in which he sings and recites prayers to the Blessed Virgin Mary. The album was set for release on 30 November 2009.\n\nHe is also known to be fond of cats. As Cardinal Ratzinger he was known (according to former neighbours) to look after stray cats in his neighbourhood. A book called \"Joseph and Chico: A Cat Recounts the Life of Pope Benedict XVI\" was published in 2007 which told the story of the Pope's life from the feline Chico's perspective. This story was inspired by an orange tabby Pentling cat, which belonged to the family next door. During his trip to Australia for World Youth Day in 2008 the media reported that festival organizers lent the Pope a grey cat called Bella in order to keep him company during his stay.\n\nIn December 2012, the Vatican announced that Pope Benedict XVI had joined social networking website Twitter, under the handle @Pontifex. His first tweet was made on 12 December and was \"Dear friends, I am pleased to get in touch with you through Twitter. Thank you for your generous response. I bless all of you from my heart.\" On 28 February 2013, the day he retired, the tweets were deleted, and @Pontifex read \"Sede Vacante\". Pope Francis eventually took control of the @Pontifex account upon his election.\n\nAs pope, Benedict was Grand Master of the following orders:\nSupreme Order of Christ, Order of the Golden Spur, Order of Pius IX, Equestrian Order of St. Gregory the Great and the Order of St. Sylvester.\n\n\n\nThe asteroid 8661 Ratzinger was named in his honor for the role he played in supervising the opening of Vatican archives in 1998 to researchers investigating judicial errors against Galileo and other medieval scientists. The name was proposed by the asteroid's first discoverers, L. D. Schmadel and F. Borngen at Tautenburg.\n\nPope Benedict XVI has written 66 books, three encyclicals, and three apostolic exhortations.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23018226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23018226", "title": "Ras Kamboni Brigades", "text": "Ras Kamboni Brigades\n\nThe Ras Kamboni Brigades also known as the Ras Kamboni Brigade, Muaskar Ras Kamboni or Mu'askar Ras Kamboni was an Islamist insurgent group active in Somalia (mostly in the Jubbalands), which took part in the anti-Ethiopian insurgency and later in the insurgency against the new Transitional Federal Government of Sheikh Sharif Ahmed. It was founded by Hassan Abdullah Hersi al-Turki, who was a commander of the Islamic Courts Union and the commander of its predecessor Itihaad al Islamiyah. In January 2009, after the Ethiopian withdrawal they merged with the Asmara-based wing of the Alliance for the Re-liberation of Somalia, led by Sheikh Hassan Dahir Aweys, Jabhatul Islamiya (\"Islamic Front\"), led by Sheikh Mohamed Ibrahim Hayle and Muaskar Anole (\"Anole School\") to form Hizbul Islam and continue the war against the TFG. During the 2009 Battle of Mogadishu, where in Hizbul Islam took part, Hassan Turki led a group of fighters from the Ras Kamboni Brigade from Kisimayo to Mogadishu as reinforcements, to join the battle.\n\nIn February 2010, the group left Hizbul Islam and joined Harakat al-Shabaab Mujahedeen. After Sheikh Hassan al-Turkey joined al-Shabaab, defecting commander Sheikh Ahmed Mohamed Islam \"Madobe\" left the organisation to form his own anti-al-Shabaab militia, the Raskamboni movement.\n"}
{"id": "4163014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4163014", "title": "Religion in Europe", "text": "Religion in Europe\n\nReligion in Europe has been a major influence on today's society, art, culture, philosophy and law. The largest religion in Europe is Christianity, but irreligion and practical secularization are strong. Two countries in Southeastern Europe have Muslim majorities. Ancient European religions included veneration for deities such as Zeus. Modern revival movements of these religions include Heathenism, Rodnovery, Romuva, Druidry, Wicca, and others. Smaller religions include Indian religions, Judaism, and some East Asian religions, which are found in their largest groups in Britain, France, and Kalmykia.\n\nLittle is known about the prehistoric religion of Neolithic Europe. Bronze and Iron Age religion in Europe as elsewhere was predominantly polytheistic (Ancient Greek religion, Ancient Roman religion, Basque mythology, Finnish paganism, Celtic polytheism, Germanic paganism, etc.).\n\nThe Roman Empire officially adopted Christianity in AD 380. During the Early Middle Ages, most of Europe underwent Christianization, a process essentially complete with the Christianization of Scandinavia in the High Middle Ages. The notion of \"Europe\" and the \"Western World\" has been intimately connected with the concept of \"Christianity and Christendom\"; many even attribute Christianity for being the link that created a unified European identity, especially since Christianity in the Middle East was marginalized by the rise of Islam from the 8th century, a constellation that led to the Crusades, which although unsuccessful militarily were an important step in the emergence of a religious identity of Europe. At all times, traditions of folk religion existed largely independent from official denomination or dogmatic theology.\n\nThe Great Schism of the 11th century and Reformation of the 16th century were to tear apart Christendom into hostile factions, and following the Age of Enlightenment of the 18th century, atheism and agnosticism have spread across Europe. 19th-century Orientalism contributed to a certain popularity of Buddhism, and the 20th century brought increasing syncretism, New Age, and various new religious movements divorcing spirituality from inherited traditions for many Europeans. The latest history brought increased secularisation, and religious pluralism.\n\nEuropean countries have experienced a decline in church membership and church attendance. A relevant example of the ongoing trend is Sweden where the church of Sweden, previously the state-church until 2000, claimed to have 82.9% of the Swedish population as its flock in 2000. Surveys showed this had dropped to 72.9% by 2008 and to 59.3% by 2017. Moreover, in the 2005 Eurobarometer survey 23% of the Swedish population said that they don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force and in the 2010 Eurobarometer survey 34% said the same.\n\nDuring 2008–2009, a Gallup survey asked in several countries the question \"Is religion important in your daily life?\" The table and map below shows percentage of people who answered \"Yes\" to the question.\nDuring 2007–2008, a Gallup poll asked in several countries the question \"Does religion occupy an important place in your life?\" The table on right shows percentage of people who answered \"No\".\nThe 2010 Eurobarometer survey found that, on average, 51% of the citizens of EU member states state that they \"believe there is a God\", 26% \"believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\" while 20% \"don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\". 3% declined to answer.\nAccording to a recent study (Dogan, Mattei, Religious Beliefs in Europe: Factors of Accelerated Decline), 47% of French people declared themselves as agnostics in 2003. This situation is often called \"Post-Christian Europe\". A decrease in religiousness and church attendance in Denmark, Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, and Sweden has been noted, despite a concurrent increase in some countries Greece (2% in 1 year) . The Eurobarometer survey must be taken with caution, however, as there are discrepancies between it and national census results. For example, in the United Kingdom, the 2001 census revealed over 70% of the population regarded themselves as \"Christian\" with only 15% professing to have \"no religion\", though the wording of the question has been criticized as \"leading\" by the British Humanist Association. Romania, one of the most religious countries in Europe, witnessed a threefold increase in the number of atheists between 2002 and 2011, as revealed by the most recent national census.\nThe following is a list of European countries ranked by religiosity, based on the rate of belief, according to the Eurobarometer survey 2010. The 2010 Eurobarometer survey asked whether the person \"believes there is a God\", \"believes there is some sort of spirit or life force\", or \"doesn't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\".\n\nThe decrease in theism is illustrated in the 1981 and 1999 according to the World Values Survey, both for traditionally strongly theist countries (Spain: 86.8%:81.1%; Ireland 94.8%:93.7%) and for traditionally secular countries (Sweden: 51.9%:46.6%; France 61.8%:56.1%; Netherlands 65.3%:58.0%). Some countries nevertheless show increase of theism over the period, Italy 84.1%:87.8%, Denmark 57.8%:62.1%. For a comprehensive study on Europe, see Mattei Dogan's \"Religious Beliefs in Europe: Factors of Accelerated Decline\" in \"Research in the Social Scientific Study of Religion\".\n\nAccording to new surveys about Religiosity in the European Union in 2012 by Eurobarometer, Christianity is the largest religion in the European Union accounting 72% of EU citizens. Catholics are the largest Christian group in EU, accounting for 48% EU citizens, while Protestants make up 12%, and Eastern Orthodox make up 8%, and other Christians account for 4% of the EU population. Non believer/Agnostic 16%, Atheist 7%, and Muslim 2%.\n\n(*) 13% of respondents in Hungary identify as Presbyterian. In Estonia and Latvia, 20%\nand 19%, respectively, identify as Lutherans. And in Lithuania, 14% say they are “just a\nChristian” and do not specify a particular denomination. They are included in the “other”\ncategory.\n(**) Identified as \"don't know/refused\" from the \"other/idk/ref\" column are excluded from this statistic.\n(***) Figures may not add to subtotals due to rounding.\n\n(**) Identified with answers \"don't know/refused\" are not shown.\n\nThe first newspaper reference to the religious movement began with coverage of the Báb, whom Bahá'ís consider the founder of a precursor religion, occurred in \"The Times\" on 1 November 1845, only a little over a year after the Báb first started his mission. British, Russian, and other diplomats, businessmen, scholars, and world travelers also took note of the precursor Bábí religion most notably in 1865 by Frenchman Arthur de Gobineau who wrote the first and most influential account. In April 1890 Edward G. Browne of Cambridge University met Bahá'u'lláh and left the only detailed description by a Westerner.\n\nStarting in the 1890s Europeans began to convert to the religion. In 1910 Bahá'u'lláh's son and appointed successor, 'Abdu'l-Bahá embarked on a three-year journey to including Europe and North America and then wrote a series of letters that were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan which included mention of the need to spread the religion in Europe following the war.\n\nA 1925 list of \"leading local Bahá'í Centres\" of Europe listed organized communities of many countries - the largest being in Germany. However the religion was soon banned in a couple countries: in 1937 Heinrich Himmler disbanded the Bahá'í Faith's institutions in Germany because of its 'international and pacifist tendencies' and in Russia in 1938 \"monstrous accusations\" against Bahá'ís and a Soviet government policy of oppression of religion resulted in Bahá'í communities in 38 cities across Soviet territories ceasing to exist. However the religion recovered in both countries. The religion has generally spread such that in recent years the Association of Religion Data Archives estimated the Bahá'ís in European countries to number in hundreds to tens of thousands.\n\n \n\nThe majority of Europeans describe themselves as Christians, divided into a large number of denominations.\nChristian denominations are usually classed in three categories: Catholicism, Orthodoxy and Protestantism (a diverse group including Lutheranism, Calvinism and Anglicanism as well as numerous minor denominations, including Baptists, Methodism, Evangelicalism, Pentecostalism, etc.).\n\nChristianity, more specifically the Catholic Church, which played an important part in the shaping of Western civilization since at least the 4th century.\n\nEuropean culture, throughout most of its recent history, has been heavily influenced by Christian belief and has been nearly equivalent to Christian culture. The Christian culture was one of the more dominant forces to influence western civilization, concerning the course of philosophy, art, music, science, social structure and architecture. The Civilizing influence of Christianity includes social welfare, founding hospitals, economics (as the Protestant work ethic), politics architecture, literature and family life.\n\nChristianity is still the largest religion in Europe. According to a 2010 study by the Pew Research Center, 76.2% of the European population identified themselves as Christians. According to a 2012 survey about Religiosity in the European Union in 2012 by Eurobarometer, Christianity was the largest religion in the European Union (account 72% of EU population), Catholics were the largest Christian group in EU, and accounted for 48% of the EU population, while Protestants made up 12%, Eastern Orthodox made up 8%, and other Christians 4%.\n\n\nThere are numerous minor Protestant movements, including various Evangelical congregations.\n\nIslam came to parts of European islands and coasts on the Mediterranean during the 8th-century Muslim conquests. In the Iberian Peninsula and parts of southern France, various Muslim states existed before the Reconquista; Islam spread in southern Italy briefly through the Emirate of Sicily and Emirate of Bari. During the Ottoman expansion, Islam was spread from into the Balkans and even part of central Europe. Muslims have also been historically present in Ukraine (Crimea and vicinity, with the Crimean Tatars), as well as modern-day Russia, beginning with Volga Bulgaria in the 10th century and the conversion of the Golden Horde to Islam. In recent years, Muslims have migrated to Europe as residents and temporary workers.\n\nAccording to the Pew Forum, the total number of Muslims in Europe in 2010 was about 44 million (6%). While the total number of Muslims in the European Union in 2007 was about 16 million (3.2%).\n\nMuslims make up 99% of the population in Northern Cyprus, 96% in Kosovo, 56% in Albania, 51% in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 39.3% in Macedonia, 20% in Montenegro, between 10 and 15% in Russia, 7 -9% in France, 8% in Bulgaria, 6% in the Netherlands, 5% in Denmark, United Kingdom and Germany., just over 4% in Switzerland and Austria, between 3 and 4% in Greece\n\nThe Jews were dispersed within the Roman Empire from the 2nd century. At one time Judaism was practiced widely throughout the European continent; throughout the Middle Ages, Jews were accused of ritual murder and faced pogroms and legal discrimination. The Holocaust perpetrated by Nazi Germany decimated Jewish population, and today, France is home to the largest Jewish community in Europe with 1% of the total population (between 483,000 and 500,000 Jews). Other European countries with notable Jewish populations include the United Kingdom (291,000 Jews), Germany (119,000), and Russia (194,000) which is home to Eastern Europe's largest Jewish community.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, Deism became influential especially in France, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Biblical concepts were challenged by concepts such as a heliocentric universe and other scientific challenges to the Bible. Notable early deists include Voltaire and Kant .\n\nThe trend towards secularism during the 20th and 21st centuries has a number of reasons, depending on the individual country:\nThe trend towards secularism has been less pronounced in the traditionally Catholic countries of Mediterranean Europe. Greece as the only traditionally Eastern Orthodox country in Europe which has not been part of the communist Eastern Bloc also retains a very high religiosity, with in excess of 95% of Greeks adhering to the Greek Orthodox Church.\n\nAccording to a Pew Research Center Survey in 2012 the Religiously Unaffiliated (Atheists and Agnostics) make up about 18.2% of the European population in 2010. According to the same Survey the Religiously Unaffiliated make up the majority of the population in only two European countries: Czech Republic (76%) and Estonia (60%). A newer study (released 2015) found that in the Netherlands there is also an irreligious majority of 68%.\n\nDuring the late 20th and early 21st centuries, atheism and agnosticism have increased, with falling church attendance and membership in various European countries. The 2010 Eurobarometer survey found that on total average, of the EU28 population, 51% \"believe there is a God\", 26% \"believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\" and 20% \"don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\".\nAcross the EU, belief was higher among women, increased with age, those with strict upbringing, those with the lowest levels of formal education and those leaning towards right-wing politics. Results were varied widely between different countries.\n\nAccording to a survey measuring religious identification in the European Union in 2012 by Eurobarometer, 7% of EU citizens identify themselves as atheists. As of 2012, the top eight European countries with people who viewed themselves as \"atheists\" were the Czech Republic (20%), France (16%), Slovenia (16%), Estonia (15%), Sweden (13%), Spain (10%), Germany (9%) and Denmark (9%).\n\nHeathenism or Esetroth (Icelandic: \"Ásatrú\"), and the organised form Odinism, are names for the modern folk religion of the Germanic nations.\n\nIn the United Kingdom Census 2001, 300 people registered as Heathen in England and Wales. However, many Heathens followed the advice of the Pagan Federation (PF) and simply described themselves as \"Pagan\", while other Heathens did not specify their religious beliefs. In the 2011 census, 1,958 people self-identified as Heathen in England and Wales. A further 251 described themselves as Reconstructionist and may include some people reconstructing Germanic paganism.\n\n\"Ásatrúarfélagið\" (Esetroth Fellowship) was recognized as an official religion by the Icelandic government in 1973. For its first 20 years it was led by farmer and poet Sveinbjörn Beinteinsson. By 2003, it had 777 members, and by 2014, it had 2,382 members, corresponding to 0.8% of Iceland's population. In Iceland, Germanic religion has an impact larger than the number of its adherents.\n\nIn Sweden, the \"Swedish Forn Sed Assembly\" (\"Forn Sed\", or the archaic \"Forn Siðr\", means \"Old Custom\") was formed in 1994 and is since 2007 recognized as a religious organization by the Swedish government. In Denmark \"Forn Siðr\" was formed in 1999, and was officially recognized in 2003 The Norwegian \"Åsatrufellesskapet Bifrost\" (Esetroth Fellowship Bifrost) was formed in 1996; as of 2011, the fellowship has some 300 members. \"Foreningen Forn Sed\" was formed in 1999, and has been recognized by the Norwegian government as a religious organization. In Spain there is the Odinist Community of Spain — Ásatrú.\n\nThe Roman polytheism also known as Religio Romana (\"Roman religion\") in Latin or the Roman Way to the Gods (in Italian 'Via romana agli Déi') is alive in small communities and loosely related organizations, mainly in Italy.\n\nThe religious development of Druidry was largely influenced by Iolo Morganwg. Modern practises aim to imitate the practises of the Celtic peoples of the Iron Age.\n\nA number of countries in Europe have official religions, including Liechtenstein, Malta, Monaco, the Vatican City (Catholic); Armenia (Apostolic Orthodoxy) ; Denmark, Iceland and the United Kingdom (England alone) (Anglican). In Switzerland, some cantons are officially Catholic, others Reformed Protestant. Some Swiss villages even have their religion as well as the village name written on the signs at their entrances.\n\nGeorgia has no established church, but the Georgian Orthodox Church enjoys \"de facto\" privileged status. Much the same applies in Germany with the Evangelical Church and the Roman Catholic Church, and the Jewish community. In Finland, both the Finnish Orthodox Church and the Lutheran Church are official. England, a part of the United Kingdom, has Anglicanism as its official religion. Scotland, another part of the UK, has Presbyterianism as its national church, but it is no longer \"official\". In Sweden, the national church used to be Lutheranism, but it is no longer \"official\" since 2000. Azerbaijan, the Czech Republic, Germany, France, Ireland, Portugal, Serbia, Romania, Russia, Spain and Turkey are officially secular.\n\nBuddhism is thinly spread throughout Europe, and the fastest growing religion in recent years with about 3 million adherents. In Kalmykia, Tibetan Buddhism is prevalent.\n\nHinduism mainly among Indian immigrants. Growing rapidly in recent years, notably in the United Kingdom, France, and the Netherlands. In 1998, there were an estimated 1.4 million Hindu adherents in Europe.\n\nJainism, small membership rolls, mainly among Indian immigrants in Belgium and the United Kingdom, as well as several converts from western and northern Europe.\n\nSikhism has nearly 1 million adherents in Europe. Most of the community live in United Kingdom (750,000) and Italy (70,000). Around 10,000 in Belgium and France. The Netherlands and Germany have a Sikh population of 12,000. All other countries have 5,000 or fewer Sikhs such as Greece.\n\nOther religions represented in Europe include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2741433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741433", "title": "Religion in The Simpsons", "text": "Religion in The Simpsons\n\nReligion is one of many recurring themes on the American animated television series \"The Simpsons\". Much of the series' religious humor satirizes aspects of Christianity and religion in general. However, some episodes, such as \"Bart Sells His Soul\" and \"Alone Again, Natura-Diddily\", can be interpreted as having a spiritual theme. The show has been both praised and criticized by atheists, agnostics, liberals, conservatives and religious people in general for its portrayal of faith and religion in society. The show can function as a mediator of biblical literacy among younger generations of irreligious viewers.\n\nIn the series, the Simpson family attends services led by Reverend Lovejoy. The church's denomination is identified as the \"Western Branch of American Reform Presbylutheranism\" in the episode \"The Father, the Son, and the Holy Guest Star.\" This is generally interpreted as representing the multitude of American Protestant traditions in general and not one specific denomination.\n\nAlthough \"The Simpsons\" often mocks religion, it has received support from some groups claiming to be religious. In a 2001 article for \"The Christian Century\", John Dart argued that \"[T]he enormous popularity of \"The Simpsons\", now in its 12th television season, suggests that religious people have a sense of humor — contrary to the usual wisdom in Hollywood. The program takes more satirical jabs at spiritual matters than any other TV show, yet the erratic cartoon family has an appreciative audience among many people of faith and among many analysts of religion. The reason? Perhaps it’s because \"The Simpsons\" is an equal-opportunity satire: it shrewdly targets all sorts of foibles and hypocrisies, not just religious ones. Perhaps it’s also because the show is exceptionally aware of the significant place religion has in the American landscape.\"\n\nOn December 2009, an article published in \"L'Osservatore Romano\", the Holy See's official newspaper, praised \"The Simpsons\" for its \"realistic\" way of dealing with religion. \"Homer finds in God his last refuge, even though he sometimes gets His name sensationally wrong. But these are just minor mistakes, after all; the two know each other well\", the article said. The Simpson family is often seen attending church, a practice described by Dart as \"rarely seen or mentioned in other TV shows.\" Simpsons creator Matt Groening has also stated that the Simpsons is one of the few shows on television where the family attends church regularly. The characters in the family are often seen praying. William Romanowski, author of the book \"Pop Culture Wars: Religion and the Role of Entertainment in American Life\", noted that \"\"The Simpsons\" is not dismissive of faith, but treats religion as an integral part of American life. Episodes that I’ve seen are not so much irreverent toward religion, but poke fun at American attitudes and practices.\"\n\nOne episode that heavily features religion is \"Bart Sells His Soul\" (1995). While discussing \"The Simpsons\" treatment of religion in his \"Drawn to Television\" book, M. Keith Booker cites a scene from the episode where Milhouse asks Bart what religions have to gain by lying about concepts such as the existence of a soul – and then the scene cuts to Reverend Lovejoy counting his money. Booker believes that this implies that religions create mythologies so that they can gain money from followers. He juxtaposes this with Bart's realization later in the episode that \"life suddenly feels empty and incomplete\" without a soul, which suggests \"either that the soul is real or it is at least a useful fiction\". The episode has been used in church courses about the nature of a soul in Connecticut and in the United Kingdom, and was shown by a minister in Scotland in one of his sermons. A 2005 report on religious education in secondary schools by the UK education watchdog group Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) noted that the episode was being used as a teaching tool.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16832792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16832792", "title": "Religion in the Marshall Islands", "text": "Religion in the Marshall Islands\n\nReligion in the Marshall Islands is as of 2009 dominated by major Christian faiths introduced by Western missionaries since around 1857. Major religious groups in the Republic of the Marshall Islands are United Church of Christ (formerly Congregational) (51.5%), Assemblies of God (24.2%), Roman Catholic church (8.4%), The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) (9.5%), Bukot Nan Jesus (also known as Assembly of God Part Two) (2.2%), Baptist (1.0%), Seventh-day Adventists (0.9%), Full Gospel (0.7%), Baha'i Faith (0.6%). Persons without any religious affiliation account for a small percentage of the population. The Jehovah's Witnesses are believed to have a few hundred practitioners. There are fewer than 20 people of Jewish faith and fewer than 20 members of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community.\n\nForeign missionaries are present and operate freely. Religious schools are operated by the Roman Catholic Church, United Church of Christ, Assemblies of God, Seventh-day Adventist Church, Bukot Non Jesus, and the Baptist Church. The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice. In 2007, the US government received no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "22220564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22220564", "title": "Roger Haight", "text": "Roger Haight\n\nRoger Haight (born 1936) is an American Jesuit theologian and former president of the Catholic Theological Society of America. He is regarded as a very knowledgeable and pioneering theologian, whose experiences with censorship have led to widespread debate over how to handle controversial ideas in the Catholic church today.\n\nHaight received his B.A. (1960) and the M.A. in Philosophy (1961) from Berchmans College, Cebu City, Philippines; his S.T.B. from Woodstock College, Maryland (1967); the M.A. in Theology (1969) and the Ph.D. in Theology (1973) from the University of Chicago; and the S.T.L. from the Jesuit School of Theology at Chicago.\n\nHaight was the recipient of the “Alumnus of the Year, 2005” award from the Divinity School of the University of Chicago in April, 2006. He taught at the Jesuit graduate schools of theology in Manila, Chicago, Toronto, and Cambridge, MA. He has also been a visiting professor in Lima, Nairobi, Paris, and in the Indian city of Pune.\n\nIn 2004, the Vatican’s Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) barred Haight from teaching at the Jesuit Weston School of Theology in response to questions about his book \"Jesus Symbol of God\" (Orbis, 1999). The book is the winner of the 1999 top prize in theology from the U.S. Catholic Press Association.\n\nIn September 2004, Haight began teaching at Union Theological Seminary, a leading multi-denominational seminary, as an adjunct professor of theology. In 2005 he wrote \"The Future of Christology\" in response to questions and concerns about \"Jesus Symbol of God\".\n\nIn January 2009 the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) barred Haight from writing on theology and forbade him to teach anywhere, including non-Catholic institutions. In 2011 he remained at Union Theological Seminary as a scholar in residence, focused on the adaptation of Ignatius' Spiritual Exercises for \"seekers\" today.\n\nIn 2015, the era of Pope Francis, Haight was somewhat reinstated and teaching at the Jesuit theologate in Toronto, Canada. His article on liberation theology was carried in a Dominican journal. He had published, in 2014, \"An Alternate Vision: An Interpretation of Liberation Theology.\" He also contributed to the Sisters of the Holy Name of Jesus and Mary series commemorating 50 years after Vatican II, with an interview on \"Spirituality Today for all Seekers: The Gift of the Spiritual Exercises for All Seekers\" which addresses the question of how to connect with the spirituality of people who do not consider themselves religious. In 2016 he published \"Spiritual and Religious: Explorations for Seekers,\" and in 2017 his \"Theology of the Cross\" was the topic of an article in the English Jesuit \"Heythrop Journal.\"\n\nThe CDF objected to Haight’s attempts to separate Christology from Greek philosophical concepts, specifically in relation to the formulation of the mystery of the Trinity, the interpretation of Christ’s divinity, and the role of Jesus in salvation. The clarifications Haight provided in 2000 were judged unsatisfactory by the CDF and in January 2001 it initiated a formal investigation which led to his 2004 removal from Catholic universities and 2009 complete silencing.\n\nIn 2005 John Allen, after a long review of diverse responses to Haight's \"Jesus\" \"Symbol of God,\" described it as \"a work of vast erudition\", and concluded:\n\nThe theological community appears divided over the Vatican’s recent censure of Jesuit Fr. Roger Haight. Citing “grave doctrinal errors” in Haight’s book \"Jesus Symbol of God\", the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith issued a notification banning the priest from teaching Catholic theology. While some see Haight’s “Christology from below” as a courageous exploration of new horizons, others see it as a cautionary tale about what happens when the culture becomes the lens for reading the Gospel rather than vice versa. Some who fault Haight have included those who have been critical of Vatican treatment of other theologians, but reluctantly concede that the congregation’s notification of Haight may be justified, or at least expected.\n\nScholars are divided on whether Rome's reaction is counterproductive by ending debate within scholarly circles or whether it was necessary since Haight's ideas were being taught at a popular level.\n\nIn 2009 after the complete silencing of Haight, a response in the Jesuit's \"America\" magazine mentioned the usefulness of certain chapters of \"Jesus Symbol of God\" and that silencing interrupts the helpful process of scholarly criticism. The silencing received widespread coverage.\n"}
{"id": "15654959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15654959", "title": "Sikhism in Switzerland", "text": "Sikhism in Switzerland\n\nSwiss Sikhs are a small religious minority in Switzerland, numbering no more than 500, with four gurdwaras. The number of Sikhs had been higher in the mid-1980s, caused by the presence of some 3,000 Sikh asylum seekers.\n\nGurudwara Sikh Gemeinde Schweiz Däniken\n\n"}
{"id": "6268592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6268592", "title": "Spiritist practice", "text": "Spiritist practice\n\nReligious practice within Spiritism is mostly limited to praying. All other activities are seen as not religious, but as charitable work. Spiritist meetings are not for worshipping.\n\nAll practices taking place within the centres are free of charge, adhering to the Gospel principle that we must \"Give for free what we receive for free.\" Attendees may actually be asked for contribution if they become regular, but generally only if they become formal members - which is more or less the same process as enlisting with a political party.\n\nThe practice of Spiritism is held without exterior trappings, within the Christian principle that God should be adored in spirit and truth. A Spiritist Centre has no exterior mark of its use, except for a (usually discreet) plate or sign bearing its name (often that of the founder or of a spiritual patron). They do not use icons, idols, crosses, pictures, etc. The presence of any such objects in a place purporting to practice Kardecist Spiritism is sometimes considered the surest proof they are not what they claim to be, as The Spirits' Book clearly states that spirits actually do not have any recognisable form (unless they have disincarnated recently). \n\nThere is no ministry within Spiritism; neither does it adopt or use in its meetings or in its practices any of the following: vestments, alcoholic beverages, incense, tobacco, altars, banners, candles, processions, talismans, amulets, sacraments, the making of promises and the paying of penances, horoscopes, fortune telling with cards or sea shells, pyramids, crystals, rituals or any other form of material support. However, Spiritist Centres usually are dedicated buildings, in the sense that they usually must follow some architectural guidelines. People willing to take part in mediunic meetings are often asked not to eat meat or ingest alcohol, coffee or drugs (including tobacco) beforehand, though such is not strictly forbidden.\n\nSpiritism does not impose its principles. It invites all those who are interested in getting to know them to submit its teachings to the test of reason before accepting them. Spiritists believe salvation is achieved by work and that any formal (or informal) religion is valid if it follows the basic commandments of God and helps people endure the hardships of life. Affiliation to Spiritism is, therefore, regarded as an option for those who do not feel their religious needs fulfilled.\n\nMediumship, which permits the Spirits to communicate with Man, is a gift which effectively everyone has, independent of doctrinal guidance. Fully developed mediumship, however, is a rarer gift that must often be developed. Spiritist Mediumship is only that which is practiced based upon the principles of the Spiritist Doctrine and within Christian morality (generally, it mustn't be done for money, fame or vanity).).\n\nThere is a strong campaign against abortion, capital punishment and suicide. Spiritists believe abortion is murder and that suicide is an act of ignorance that leads to worsening of the conditions of a future life. \n\nPrayer is deemed to be important to allow oneself to stay in tune with his spiritual friends and protectors. It is especially useful to fight or prevent obsession. Praying helps to clear the mind of bad feelings and prepares the spirit for higher achievements. The prayer does not need to follow a strict formula, but should come from within the follower, and it should express their true belief in, and dedication to, God. Spiritist prayer is not formulaic, but reflects the person's current state of mind, much like Evangelical prayer. The most frequent subject of prayer is asking for the guidance of God.\n\nDoing charity work is of utmost importance. According to the doctrine, we should be willing to donate not only material resources, but also the better share of our love and care for the less fortunate.\n\nSpiritists are prompted to read a lot. Spiritist Centres usually have libraries and many publishing houses distribute cheap paperback editions of a myriad books in all genres, including literature, science, philosophy, history, poetry, etc. Spiritist authors are often expected to donate their copyright to works of charity or charge low amounts for it (as the purpose of a book is to be read and many people can't afford to buy expensive books).\n"}
{"id": "56105081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56105081", "title": "Synagogues in Azerbaijan", "text": "Synagogues in Azerbaijan\n\nIn Azerbaijan, there are three main Jewish communities - mountain Jews, Ashkenazi Jews and communities of Georgian Jews. The total number of Jews in the country is 16,000. Of these, 11,000 are mountain Jews, about 6,000 in Baku, 4,000 in Guba and thousands in other cities. Ashkenazi Jews are 4.3 thousand people. Most of them live in Baku and Sumgayit. The Georgian Jews are about 700.\n\nQ.Zelmanovich said that there are 10 synagogues in Azerbaijan. Two of the synagogues are located in Baku, six of them in Guba and two of them in Oguz:\n\n\"Synagogues have been built mainly in areas where Jews live. One of the synagogues in Baku was built in 2003 and another in 2012. Jews living in Azerbaijan, every day worship in the synagogue, celebrate their festivals, hold mourning ceremonies.\" \n\nThe building of the Mountain Jews Synagogue in Baku has been functioning since 1945. During the Soviet era, after the end of the Second World War, mountain Jews were given an ancient building for religious needs in the center of the city. The condition of the building was very damaging, and those who worshiped here were suffering from unpleasantness. This situation continued until Azerbaijan gained independence. During the period of independence, repair and restoration works were started, the second floor of the synagogue was built, and favorable conditions were created for worshipers.\n\nIn connection with the reconstruction and capital rehabilitation works carried out, there was a need for a new synagogue for Mountain Jews and has been functioning in Baku in 2010. The opening ceremony of the new temple for the Mountain Jews was held on April 5, 2011. According to the architectural features and dimensions, officials, heads of religious confessions functioning in Azerbaijan, members of the Jewish community, as well as guests from Israel, Russia and other countries attended in opening ceremony of other Jewish temples’ synagogue not only in Azerbaijan but also in the region.\n\nThe synagogue of Jews of Europe and Georgia, located at Baku, was opened on March 9, 2003. The temple was built based on the project of the architect Alexander Karberin. This place of worship is considered to be the first synagogue built in the Near East in 60–80 years.\n\nThis building, considered to be one of the largest synagogues in Europe, was erected instead of the old temple. After the Second World War, Soviet Power gave a one-storey building with ancient military warehouses to Georgian and European Jews for religious needs. Here men went down cold and damp basement for praying, and women prayed in the upper room. The balcony of the building was also given to women.\n\nAt present, in three-storied, new synagogue built from white stone has created comfortable conditions for believers. People from different religions and classes participated in the synagogue construction. The name of each person and organization that has been worked in the project is engraved on boards at the entrance of the temple. Not only Jewish organizations living abroad, but also Caucasian Muslims Office and the Baku and Russian Orthodox Church in Azerbaijan have been closely participated in financing the construction.\n\nThe Gilaki synagogue, located in the Red settlement in Guba region, was built by immigrants from the Gilan Province of Iran. The architect of the temple is Gilel Ben Haim. His name was engraved on the brick facade of the synagogue. It is clear from the inscription on the foundation stone that the temple was erected in 1896. There is also another board on the entrance door. And here is written another date - 1857. Perhaps this board was brought from the more ancient temple of the Jewish emigrants and was put on the door of the synagogue.\n\nThere are 12 windows in the synagogue building, according to the number of Israel branch. From historical sources it is known that earlier there was a spring near the synagogue. It is likely that the mosque built in Guba in the first half of the 19th century was a prototype for the temple of Gilaki, because the hexagonal dome was once a glass and illuminated the prayer room. Anological roofing is also available at the Guba mosque. In the past, there were no separate rooms for women in the Gilaki synagogue as in the other temples of mountain Jews. Women only came in here during the holidays and sat in the yard of the synagogue. At present, women are allowed to enter the temple during holidays.\n\nA synagogue in the Red Village of Guba District was built in 1888 by architect Gilel Ben Haim. Six dome (synagogue is also hexagonal) is a symbol of immigrating of the residents of Qilhat settlement here from the village of Galaduz during 6 days with the permission of Huseynali Khan of Guba. The temple has 14 main windows.\n\nThe synagogue, a large worship hall, is an ancient architectural monument built in the Eastern style. The section facing the wall of worship is called aron-kadus. Its height is 7 meters. The Holy book is kept in a wardrobe on the wall.\n\nThe windows are made of oak tree in shape of hexagonal star. The restoration of the synagogue began in 1995 and was completed in October 2000. There is also a 60-person worship hall and a kitchen for religious ceremonies at the temple's cellar.\n\nThe Upper Quarter of Synagogue located at Oguz city was built in 1897 by helping and heading of Ravvin Barukh. In the Soviet era, this synagogue was also closed as other places of worship, and later used as a warehouse.\n\nIn October 2004, the synagogue was begun to repaired by local Jews living in Oguz, and the renovation was completed in 2006. The synagogue is now used as a temple. On the Friday and Saturday, the Jews worship freely.\n\nThe Lower Quarter of Synagogue in Oguz city, was built in 1849. This synagogue was used as a tobacco and furniture warehouse during the Soviet era. The synagogue began to repaire by local Jews in 1992 and ended in 1994.\n\nHistory of the Jews in Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "36740665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36740665", "title": "Sülde Tngri", "text": "Sülde Tngri\n\nSülde Tngri is an equestrian war god, one of the tngri, the highest group of divinities in Mongolian shamanism. He is usually depicted as an armored warrior riding a horse. In Mongolian shamanism, everyone possesses a guardian spirit, called a sülde. \"Sülde Tngri\" can refer to the sülde of any great leader, but it primarily refers to the deified sülde of Genghis Khan. As a war god, Sülde Tngri's primary function is protecting his devotees from their enemies and aiding them in battles against their foes.\n\nThe exact details of Sülde Tngri's appearance and entourage vary among artwork of him. He has been illustrated as a man wearing armor and a helmet adorned by triangular flags or banners, armed with a club and wreathed in fire. He is mounted on a yellow horse, tended to by a servant clothed in white. In this portrayal, he has a demon held captive. Another description has Sülde Tngri clothed in white silk and carrying both a spear and a lance, riding a white horse. In other images, he has been represented by a man with a spear and a flag, riding a horse.\n\nSülde Tngri's primary sphere of influence is protection from mortal enemies. Rituals invoking his aid usually describe him and his entourage only briefly, but some give more elaborate, detailed accounts of his interventions. He is the major local god around the Muna community, although his status as a minor god elsewhere is simultaneously acknowledged.\n\nSülde Tngri is most often identified with Genghis Khan. As his sülde, Sülde Tngri represents the embodiment of Genghis Khan in his martial character, excluding the other aspects of the historical figure's personality. The white horse that sometimes appears in descriptions of Sülde Tngri has been thought to represent Genghis's deified horse. In illustrations, the god and the mortal man resemble each other; this has created some confusion over which entity is being portrayed. Sülde Tngri is also sometimes confused with similar equestrian warrior deities, such as Dayisun Tngri.\n"}
{"id": "41243101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41243101", "title": "Talaja Caves", "text": "Talaja Caves\n\nThe Talaja Caves are located in Bhavnagar district of the Indian state of Gujarat at Talaja. The rock cuts are carved out into deserted conical rocks. The rock cut group include 30 caves among which about 15 are water tanks. The cave has unique architecture known as \"Ebhal Mandapa\". The halls are plain. \"On the facade there are chaitya windows with a broad bank below them.\" The chaitya and cells were carved during Buddhism influence in 2nd century BC. During the Kshatrapas' regime in 2nd-3rd century AD Jainism emblems were carved on the cells and the halls.\n\nThe cave contains figures of Bodhisattva.The caves were carved out before rock cut architecture begins in the Maharashtra. According to few Historians the date of caves can not be traced out however some believe that carving started by the end of 1st century CE.\n"}
{"id": "20131156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20131156", "title": "TheMarker", "text": "TheMarker\n\nTheMarker () is a Hebrew-language daily business newspaper published by the Haaretz group in Israel.\n\n\"TheMarker\" was founded in 1999 by journalist and entrepreneur Guy Rolnik along with Haaretz group and U.S.-based investors. 5 Years after \"TheMarker\" launched, Haaretz newspaper group decided to terminate its long-standing business section and relaunch it as a daily print newspapers called “\"TheMarker\"”, the brand that was created online.\n\nThe chief editor of \"TheMarker\" is Sami Peretz. The editor of the monthly magazine is Eytan Avriel. \"TheMarker\" alone has about 250 employees. It operates from \"Haaretz\" newspaper building in Tel Aviv.\n\nIn 2006 and 2007 \"TheMarker\" and Rolnik won the 2 most important awards in marketing and business strategy for creating \"TheMarker\", turning it into the leading brand in financial media and using an internet brand to launch a print newspaper (see “Awards”).\n\nCurrently \"TheMarker\" produces a website, a daily print newspaper, a monthly print magazine and holds events on business-related issues. Some of \"TheMarker\"’s articles are translated to English and appear in the English version of Haaretz in cooperation with the International New York Times.\n\n\"TheMarker\", founded by Rolnik and Haaretz group, was incorporated in 1999 and launched in March 2000. Joined by his two friends and co-founders – Avriel and Ido Pollak – Rolnik launched what would become the first business news website and the first online newsroom in Israel. In 2001 \"TheMarker\" started publishing a monthly print magazine, \"TheMarker Magazine\". The magazine publishes yearly lists of “Israel’s 100 most influential people” and “Israel’s 500 richest people”, which draw considerable attention. In 2003 started organizing business-related events under its own brand.\n\nIn 2005 Haaretz daily newspaper's economic section was terminated and Haaretz launched “\"TheMarker\"” as a daily newspaper.\n\nFollowing the relaunch, the number of Haaretz's paid subscribers increased significantly: by the end of 2006, the number of paid subscribers rose to all-time high of over 60,000 and ad revenues from \"TheMarker\"’s print edition grew by 50% compared to the pre-rebranding Period.\n\nIn 2008 the print edition of \"TheMarker\" became available as a stand-alone product as well.\n\nIn 2007 \"TheMarker\" launched “\"TheMarker Café\"”, Israel’s first social network for grown-ups and the first launched by a news organization.\n\n\"TheMarker\" is known for its journalistic campaigns. Believing that the role of a newspaper is to push politicians into taking on powerful special interest groups, \"TheMarker\"’s prolonged campaigns, usually consisting of dozens of long-form essays, articles and analyses packed with data, were able to put issues on the agenda, prime them to attract the attention of the public, regulators and politicians and present them in a way that would get support.\n\nOver the years, the newspaper identified many of the basic structural problems in Israel’s economy and society and campaigned for their reform. Some of \"TheMarker\"’s campaigns were met with objection or counter-campaigns by other media outlets that are linked to big Israel business groups or political figures. Nevertheless, many of the issues \"TheMarker\" campaigned for were later incorporated into government decisions and laws.\n\nRolnik's profile on an independent Israeli watchdog states that “during the first decade following its founding, \"TheMarker\" was a lone journalistic voice in a line of battles against the connections between the government and powerful businesspeople and the concentration of economic and political power in the hands of few. Following the 2011 social protests, during which some of Rolnik’s and \"TheMarker\"’s gained wide public recognition, some other media outlets began adopting some of the ideas he led. Rolnik’s and \"TheMarker\"’s campaigns yielded at least seven major economic reforms: (1) the implementation of the recommendations of the Bejski Commission – ending banks’ control of capital markets (2) the introduction of competition in the cellular market (3) increasing taxes on Israel's natural resources (The Sheshinski Committee) (4) preventing the bailout of tycoons with Israeli taxpayers and savers money following the 2008 financial crisis (5) the creation of Israel's Anti-Concentration Committee (6) the creation of the Strum Committee for the introduction of competition in the banking sector, and (7) exposing the corruption in both the IDB and Bank Hapoalim groups during the reign of the Dankner family, which led to their indictments, convictions and removal from their positions\".\n\nThe banking sector has always been a central point of interest for \"TheMarker\". \"TheMarker\" is particularly interested in the political power of banks and their influence on the media, political parties, experts and the business sector and the lack of competition in the banking sector itself.\n\n1983 saw the first major banking crisis in Israel's history, “the manipulation crisis”. In the years leading up to the crisis, almost all major Israeli banks manipulated their own stock prices. Eventually, in October 1983, their stock prices collapsed and pushed the whole stock market into a crash. In order to restore confidence in the financial system, the government nationalized the manipulating banks and formed an inquiry committee that was named “the Bejski Committee”, after its chairman, Supreme Court judge Moshe Bejski. That crisis made Israelis wary of banks since.\n\nIsrael's banking sector has long been controlled by two major banks, Bank Hapoalim and Bank Leumi. As of 2015, Bank Hapoalim and Bank Leumi held each about 30% of the banking sector's total assets, or about 60% together. For many years, Israel's banks also owned the biggest money-management companies, mainly mutual funds and two other major types of saving funds that are unique to Israel (“Kupot Gemel” and “Kranot Hishtalmut”). They were also major players in securities underwriting held controlling stakes in other financial institutions, mainly insurance companies, as well as real sector companies.\n\nA major recommendation of the Bejski Committee was that banks should not be allowed to own money-management corporations, such as mutual funds, a recommendation that banks fiercely objected to and that was not adopted at the time.\n\nFor many years, \"TheMarker\" maintained that this structure leads to a conflict of interests between the banks and their customers, significant inefficiencies, suboptimal yields for savers, higher management fees and a distortion of the allocation of capital, and campaigned for increased competition in banking by divestiture of certain assets and the addition of more players in the remaining areas. In its campaign, \"TheMarker\" reiterated its support of the Bejski Committee recommendations and used them to push then Finance Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to promote reform.\n\nIn April 2004, Netanyahu ordered the forming of a committee that was tasked with recommending steps to increase competition in the capital markets. The banks and most mainstream newspapers strongly opposed the forming of the committee. The committee's main recommendation was the same as Bejski's: to force banks to sell their money-management corporations, which most of them did almost immediately after the recommendations were enacted into law in August 2005. The three laws associated with the recommendations were confirmed in the Knesset with overwhelming majority.\n\nFollowing the divestitures, the new, non-bank, owners of the money-management corporations increased management fees considerably, only to decrease them later to the pre-reform levels. The proceeds from the sales also helped Israeli banks whether the global 2007-2008 financial crisis.\n\nThe reform significantly increased the stream of non-bank credit to the Israeli business sector. According to Bank of Israel data, following the reform, between December 2004 and December 2009, non-bank credit to the business sector almost doubled – from 167 billion shekels to 342 billion shekels, while bank credit increased 10%.\n\nFollowing the Financial crisis of 2007-2008, which exposed the vulnerability of Israel's biggest corporations and their interdependence, \"TheMarker\" started campaigning against the concentration of economic and political power in few businesspeople who control many big corporations that span many areas of activity. In these articles, those businesspeople were described as “tycoons”, a term that became to bear resemblance to “Robber barons”.\n\n\"TheMarker\" repeatedly pointed out to the level of concentration and its dangers and to the pyramidal structure of many of Israel's big business conglomerates and called for dismantling them.\n\nIn October 24, 2010, Prime Minister Netanyahu formed “The Committee on Increasing Competitiveness in the Economy”, better known as “The Concentration Committee”. As some of its leading members left, the committee's work almost came to a halt. But following the July 2011 wave of social protests, which adopted \"TheMarker\"’s fight against concentration, Netanyahu appointed new members and the committee handed its final recommendations in February 2012.\n\nFollowing the recommendations, on December 9, 2013, the Israel’s Knesset approved “The Law for Promotion of Competition and Reduction of Concentration”, better known as “The Anti-Concentration Law”, with no objections and included both coalition and opposition parties: 42 coalition Knesset members and 30 opposition Knesset members voted for the law, an extremely rare result in the Knesset's history.\n\nThe law's two main features were to limit the ability to control corporations via a pyramidal structure and forcing a separation between significant financial corporations and significant non-financial corporations.\n\nThe law and \"TheMarker\"’s campaign met with strong objection from many Israeli newspapers, but was commended by the global press. In a January 7, 2014, New York Times article titled “Overhaul of Israel’s Economy Offers Lessons for United States” Steven Davidoff wrote that “with a single bill and a few big changes in its corporate law, Israel is looking to overhaul its economy and hopefully reduce income inequality”. An October 15, 2015 article in Financial Times stated that: “…it is the role that the business newspaper \"TheMarker\" has played in Israel in exposing the effect on the national economy of the concentration of power and wealth in the hands of a few billionaires”.\n\nIn relation to the campaign against concentration, \"TheMarker\" wrote extensively about small groups whose members were connected to power and resources. Those included, among others, people with connections to the top political parties, people who worked at Israel's biggest state-owned and private monopolies, such as Israel Electric Corporation and the major banks and many salaried military personnel employed in non-combative positions. The people enjoyed good wages, job security and generous retirement plans, were able to maintain their power regardless of how the economy was doing and, in many cases, pass these privileges onto their children via nepotistic practices.\n\nIn many articles, \"TheMarker\" characterized and identified this groups, stressing that all their privileges are earned at the expenses of “the unconnected” – the vast majority of Israelis. And lust like the tycoons, the connected were able to control much more economic and political power than their share in the population would imply.\n\nDanny Dankner is a member of a family with deep and historic roots in Israel's business sector. In 1997 his family was part of a group that bought the controlling stake in Bank Hapoalim. His family later sold its stake, but Dankner remained on the bank's board of directors and was named the chairman in 2007.\n\nThe financial crisis of 2007-2008, that occurred when Dankner was chairman, exposed many ill-fated decisions made by the bank as well as private transactions that Dankner made and were considered dubious. Some were self-dealings, such as a transaction involving Bank Hapoalim, a Turkish bank and an Israeli-owned fund that transacted with a publicly-traded company co-controlled by Dankner; and a loan made to Dankner by Bank Hapoalim. It was also later revealed that Danny Dankner secretly owed 60 million shekels (approx. $17 million) to his cousin, Nochi Dankner, who was at the time the strongest businessman in Israel.\n\nIn April 2009, \"TheMarker\" reported that the then Governor of the Bank of Israel, Stanley Fischer, met secretly with Shari Arison, the controlling shareholder of Bank Hapoalim, and demanded that she remove Danny Dankner from his position, saying that he lost confidence in Dankner following a string of apparent failures. Arison refused. Following the meeting and Arison's refusal, \"TheMarker\" with supported Fischer unequivocally while most other major newspapers took Arison's side and condemned Fischer's request. Eventually, on June 1, 2009, Dankner handed his resignation to Bank Hapoalim's board.\n\nLater, Dankner was charged, and finally convicted, in two separate cases, one related to his tenure at Bank Hapoalim. Nochi Dankner was also convicted. In November 2012, he was arrested on suspicions regarding securities-related issues regarding a February 2012 share issue by the conglomerate he controlled and ran, IDB Holdings – a story \"TheMarker\" broke. In June 2014 he was formally indicted, in July 2016 he was found guilty of all charges and on December 5, 2016, he was sentenced to two years in prison. In his efforts to fight \"TheMarker\" and influence regulators’ positions regarding concentration, in March 2011, Nochi Dankner's IDB bought Maariv, a daily newspaper. 18 months later the newspaper went bankrupt.\n\nIn January 2009, a huge natural gas field, Tamar, was found about 90 kilometers (approx. 55 miles) west of the Israeli city of Haifa. Later, a few more huge fields were discovered in other parts of the Mediterranean within Israel's Exclusive economic zone.\n\nThese discoveries prompted a re-examination of Israel's energy-related taxes with an intent to raise them from their existing levels. \"TheMarker\"’s position was that Israel should raise the taxes to levels that would be at par with other nations.\n\nIn order to handle the situation, the then Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz formed a committee headed by renowned economist prof. Eytan Sheshinski. The committee published its final recommendations in January 2011. The recommendations indeed meant that the state’s share of the revenues would be greater than in the existing law. On March 2011, the Knesset passed the law that effectively adopted the committee’s recommendations and raised taxing significantly. The law was confirmed with a significant majority: 78 Knesset members voted for it while only 2 objected.\n\nFor many years, Israel’s cellular market was controlled by three Providers – Pelephone, Cellcom and Partner – who were also the major sellers of phones.\n\nStarting in 2004, \"TheMarker\" pushed for increased competition in the cellular market by lowering Termination rates, the fees charged by cellular providers for connecting calls from other providers, and failed to push communication ministers in this direction. In March 2009 Moshe Kahlon became the new Minister of Communications and \"TheMarker\" encouraged him to introduce competition into the market and supported him in his efforts as other newspapers opposed it.\n\nThe two major pieces in Kahlon’s reform were introducing Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNOs) and allowing more players to import phones. The first MVNO to operate, on December 5, 2011, was Rami Levy Communications. The MVNOs offered monthly bundles that were priced much lower than the average monthly bills offered by the incumbent providers, which resulted in a significant fall in monthly bills and a significant fall in the incumbents’ Average Revenue per User (ARPU). For example, while Partner's monthly average ARPU in 2006-2008 was 161 shekels, by 2015 it fell to 69 shekels. According to a Ministry of Finance paper, the reform resulted in 17.5 billion shekels (approximately 4.6 billion dollars) of total economy savings up to 2014. In a May 2012 \"TheMarker\" conference Kahlon said : “This is the place to admit that, along with \"TheMarker\", we led the opening of the cellular market to competition. They (\"TheMarker\") set the direction”.\n\nOn July 14, 2011, a small group of demonstrators set up tents on the north end of Tel Aviv’s Rothschild Boulevard, protesting the high prices of rents. Shortly after that they were joined by hundreds, and later thousands, more protesters who occupied more streets in Tel Aviv and other cities. By then, their protest expanded to the high cost of living and low pay for many professionals. Their slogan was “the people demands social justice”. Its peak came in September 3, 2011, when about half a million protesters went to the streets in many cities across the country.\n\nAt first, most Israeli media covered the protests extensively thereby amplifying them. But once it became clear that the protesters were demanding a new economic and social order, some major newspapers cut back on their coverage. In an August 28, 2016, article in HaAyin HaShevi'it, an Israeli media watchdog, interviewed a former editor of a leading news outlet who said: “We watched with horror how the social protests were inflated and promoted out of proportion when they erupted and when the fire was directed at Prime Minister Netanyahu – and how, at its peak, as the protesters focused on the powerful businesspeople (and indirectly also to the mainstream press) it was dwarfed”.\n\n\"TheMarker\", identifying the many similarities between the protesters’ agenda and its own views, supported them throughout.\n\nIn late 2011, a few months after the wave of social protests, \"TheMarker\" published a series of articles on three Nordic states – Finland, Sweden and Denmark – and their brand of economic order, mostly known as The Nordic Model, which is based on a combination of pro-market capitalism, welfare state policies and inclusive collective bargaining. The articles portrayed the countries that are characterized by competition along with a deep regard of humanistic values, whose citizens seem happy with the way things are and enjoy a high standard of living.\n\nThe series was met with much enthusiasm with readers and its articles were some of the most-read in \"TheMarker\"’s history. On February 2, 2013, \"The Economist\" issued a Special Report on the Nordic countries, “Northern Lights”, in which it wrote that “the Nordic countries are probably the best-governed in the world”.\n\nLike others in Israel, the food industry is characterized by big players – both retailers and suppliers.\n\nAccording to a Dun & Bradstreet report, in 2014, the three top retail chains – Shufersal, Mega Retail and Rami Levy Hashikma Marketing – held together 62% of the market. In July 2016, Bitan Wines, whose 2014 share was 8%, bought Mega Retail, which made the market even more concentrated. According to the Dun and Bradstreet report, then top 4 food manufacturers – Tnuva, The Central Bottling Co. (Coca-Cola Israel), Strauss and Osem – held a combined market share of 62% of the top 13 food manufacturers.\n\nOn March 19, 2014, following \"TheMarker\"’s campaign, which gained impetus following the July 2011 social protests, the Knesset approved, with no objections, a law for the promotion of competition in the food market. The law aims to increase competition by limiting the market influence of major chains and suppliers and by affording smaller suppliers with bigger and more prominent shelf space.\n\nThe April 2004 committee forced banks to sell their money-management corporations. Later, the Anti-Concentration Law imposed a strict ownership separation between financial and non-financial holdings; the removal of Danny Dankner from Bank Hapoalim and his subsequent conviction sent a clear message regarding corporate governance and criminal activities and liabilities; and the capping of bankers’ pay delineated what was accepted and what was rejected. But another aspect of the banking system was still left unchanged: the big banks’ control of the credit card business.\n\nIn September 1, 2016, also following a two-year campaign by \"TheMarker\" and with its backing, a committee created by Finance Minister Moshe Kahlon and the Bank of Israel's Governor Dr. Karnit Flug, recommended that Israel's two biggest banks, Hapoalim and Leumi, sell their credit card companies and that new competitors be set up to compete against banks in the credit markets.\n\nThe Natural Gas Outline is the name given to Prime Minister Netanyahu's government's decision from August 16, 2015, in which it set rules for the exploitation of the country's gas files, which are privately owned.\n\nThe decision came after intense discussions within the government ministries. On May 25, 2015, the director of Israel's Antitrust Authority, who strongly opposed the apparent outline, resigned in protest. Also, in order to pass the outline, Netanyahu took the position of Minister of Economy so he could make the necessary decision that the previous minister refused to make.\n\nFollowing the discovery of the Tamar gas field in January 2009, a few other fields were discovered, the largest of which is Leviathan (July 2010). These are Israel's two biggest gas fields. As of 2015, Leviathan was estimated at 21,934.5 billion cubic feet (BCF) (2C estimate of total reserves) and Tamar was estimated at 10,260.3 BCF (2P estimate of total reserves).\n\nNetanyahu's outline drew fierce criticism, especially by \"TheMarker\", regarding two major components of the outline: “the stability clause”, that promised the owners that the government would not initiate laws that would change the taxation of their profits for 10 years; and the price that the outline promised the owners, $5.4 per million British Thermal Unit (BTU).\n\n\"TheMarker\" argued that the stability clause unconstitutional as it prevented future governments from governing by creating laws. \"TheMarker\" also argued that the price was not competitive, pointing to the falling global prices of natural gas. In August 2015, the government agency in charge of the electricity market issues a report that stated the outline would be equal to a “7.3 million shekels fine” on the Israeli public (approx. 1.9 billion dollars). Following that report, Netanyahu fired the agency's director. Following the outline and Netanyahu's handling of the controversies, a few demonstrations and rallies were held, the largest of which took place on November 14, 2015, in Tel Aviv.\n\nOn March 27, 2016, Israel's Supreme Court rejected the August 16, 2015, outline, criticizing the “stability clause”, saying that it “overstepped the boundaries of what can be done in a democracy” and allowed the government a year to amend the outline.\n\nOn May 22, 2016, the government issued a new outline which, according to Netanyahu, addressed the Supreme Court's concerns. Five days later, On May 27, Avi Gabai, who also opposed the outline, resigned from his position as the Minister of Environmental Protection.\n\nOn November 23, 2016, a District court judge ruled that it will proceed with a class action against the owners of the Tamar gas field regarding the price they charge Israel Electric Corporation for gas, thus bringing the price issue back into court.\n\nSince its inception, \"TheMarker\" has been a fierce critic of both illegal and legal corruption and frequently wrote about the strongest Israeli politicians, both from the left and the right, among them former Israeli Prime Ministers Ariel Sharon and Ehud Olmert, former Finance Minister Avraham Hirschson, former Minister of Industry, Trade & Labour Binyamin Ben-Eliezer and current Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman.\n\nOlmert and Hirschson were the first Israeli former Prime Minister and former Finance Minister, respectively, to be convicted of criminal charges and sentenced to prison. Ben-Eliezer was indicted in December 2015. He died in August 2016, while his trial was still underway.\n\nAriel Sharon was suspected of corruption twice. In 2001 it was alleged that Israeli businessman and political operator David Appel bribed Sharon by paying Sharon's son, Gilad Sharon, hundreds of thousands of dollars for a consulting Appel on a project Gilad Sharon was believed to have no real expertise in (the “Greek island affair”). In June 2004, the Attorney General ruled that there was no evidence to support the claims. In 2002, a State Comptroller report raised the suspicion that South African businessman and a longtime friend of Sharon Cyril Kern helped Sharon repay illegal contributions to a 1999 campaign by making a $1.5 million loan to Sharon's sons, Gilad Sharon and Omri Sharon, the original source of the money being Austrian businessman Martin Schlaff (the “Cyril Kern affair”). The police recommended indicting Gilad Sharon and Omri Sharon, but in 2013 the case was dropped because of difficulties in interrogating Schlaff in Austria and because Ariel Sharon fell into a coma in early 2006 and could not be interrogated.\n\nSchlaff is well connected to three other top Israeli politicians who were suspected of corruption, Lieberman, Olmert, and Aryeh Deri, who was convicted and sentenced to prison in 2000 on an issue unrelated to Schlaff.\n\nLieberman was suspected of being paid millions of shekels in bribes by Russian-Israeli businessman Michael Cherney between 1999 and 2009. Also, approximately 7 million shekels, were paid from foreign accounts to a company founded by Lieberman's daughter in 2004, when she was 21. The company paid high salaries to both Lieberman and his daughter. In December 2012, years after it landed on his desk, the then Attorney General, Yehuda Weinstein, decided to close the case because the time that passed had weakened the evidence.\n\n\"TheMarker\" is also a constant critic of the finances of the Israeli military (IDF).\n\nFor many decades, the Israeli Defense Ministry’s budget has been the biggest of all the government’s ministries. Since the early 2000s, the share of expenses on defense stands at about 9% of Israeli GDP. In 2015, the Israeli Defense Ministry’s actual budget was 62 billion shekels (approx. $16 billion).\n\nAs it is mostly secret and hidden from public scrutiny, \"TheMarker\" argues, the budget helps conceal – and even encourage – inefficiencies and corruption. One major issue \"TheMarker\" follows closely is personnel remuneration – wages and benefits, and especially pension schemes. \"TheMarker\" contends that the military should differentiate between combat-related wages and wages paid to personnel who occupy civilian-like positions, especially those who serve close to home; and that the army should stop providing its personnel with pensions that are wholly paid by the defense budget (“budgetary pensions”) and reveal the true existing commitments toward the existing budgetary pensions.\n\n\"TheMarker\" also argues that the finances of the defense budget are almost never part of the public discourse, as well as the effect the economic and geopolitical changes should have on the defense budget.\n\nIt is also the position of \"TheMarker\" that the defense budget creates a caste of former top officers that are paid considerable sums for consulting and brokerage fees and that the budget helps keep alive many defense-related industries that would otherwise be considered inefficient and discontinued.\n\nOver the years, \"TheMarker\", separately and together with Rolnik, won several awards for journalistic as well as marketing achievements.\n\nFour of the awards were related to the January 2005 launch of \"TheMarker\" as a daily paid for newspaper:\n\nSome of the most notable personal awards Rolnik won for his journalistic achievements include:\n\nIn May 2004, \"HaAyin HaShevi'it\" interviewed journalists, business people and media experts in Israel. Almost all of them expressed the view that Rolnik is Israel's most influential columnist and the best economic journalist in Israel. “Rolnik writes the most important economic column in Israel, he has no competition. As a member of boards and committees I hear very often people talking about what Rolnik wrote this morning. People read his daily column avidly and with fear. There is no other journalist in Israel that has such position in his field – he is the master of the domain… When he mentions a person or a phenomenon in his column – its value will go up”. A senior executive in the media industry was quoted: “Rolnik is the most influential economics journalist in Israel, I read every word he writes. Unlike other journalists he manages to surprise me time and again because his position is so unpredictable”.\n\nIn February 2011, \"The New Yorker\"'s editor, David Remnick, published a story about Haaretz and Schocken, saying \"Under the leadership of a young, hyper-ambitious editor named Guy Rolnik, \"TheMarker\" brought a new, more youthful audience to Haaretz — one at least as interested in the high-tech industry as it is in the Palestinian issue — just as the worldwide newspaper crisis hit. \"TheMarker\", which can be bought separately, has helped save the paper. Rolnik has been especially good at publishing investigative pieces on what he calls the 'Israeli oligarchs,' a small group of billionaires and their families who control much of the national economy\".\n\nIn March 2015, journalist and media critic Michael Massing highlighted the work done by \"TheMarker\" and Rolnik in an essay “How to fix American Journalism” that appeared in the special issue of \"The Nation\" magazine for its 150th anniversary. According to Massing, the unique campaign that waged Rolnik as editor-in-chief of \"TheMarker\" is the model for fixing American journalism: \"\"TheMarker\", an Israeli financial newspaper distributed as a supplement to Haaretz, waged an unflagging campaign beginning in the mid-2000s against the extraordinary concentration of economic power in Israel and the dangers that this development posed to Israeli society and democracy. Led by its founding editor, Guy Rolnik, the paper ran periodic stories and columns that paid special attention to the “Israeli oligarchs,” a small group of billionaires and their families who controlled much of the Israeli economy. When the campaign began, the subject of economic concentration was barely discussed in Israel. The stories fed growing outrage over inequality, leading to a series of mass demonstrations in 2011. Those protests, in turn, spurred the Knesset to pass a bill to break up the Israeli conglomerates. It was a remarkable display of how one news organization, through tenacious and unflinching reporting over a period of years, can help spur systemic change ... Remarkably, of the many high-profile digital-journalism sites—the Huffington Post, The Daily Beast, BuzzFeed, Business Insider—not one scrutinizes America's oligarchs the way \"TheMarker\" did Israel's. ProPublica, the prime investigative site on the web, has done impressive reporting on a number of important subjects, including fracking and the secret Fed tapes, but in general it remains wedded to a traditional narrow-focus approach\".\n\n"}
{"id": "754622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=754622", "title": "The Fellowship (Australia)", "text": "The Fellowship (Australia)\n\nThe Fellowship was the label given to a group of people within the Presbyterian Church of Australia. Located in Melbourne, it was estimated to involve between 300 and 400 people. The Fellowship was labelled by opponents as a \"secretive cult\".\nThe Fellowship was started by Ronald Grant and Alan Neil, who had both served as missionaries with the South Seas Evangelical Mission in the Solomon Islands. While missionaries, both were profoundly influenced by widespread experiences of \"the conviction of sin and deliverance from demons\" during their participation in a revival in the Solomon Islands. Dissatisfied with perceived persecution from evangelical circles following their requested resignation due to \"doctrinal differences\" the pair started house meetings in their homes in the late 1930s. Communicants of these meetings would later be labelled as members of \"The Fellowship\".\n\nAlan Neil died in the late 1960s, and Ronald Grant was involved in the group until his death in 1995. During the following year, members left their current churches and joined one of three Presbyterian churches: Clayton, Mount Evelyn and Camberwell, reportedly at the direction of the Fellowship. In 2002, people accused of being in the Fellowship were removed from membership of the Mount Evelyn church.\n\nThe Fellowship was strongly opposed to Freemasonry. A theory of \"generational curses\" was taught, which encourages repentance if a member's ancestors were Freemasons.\n\nThe Fellowship emphasised the importance of what it calls \"walking in the light\", referencing 1 John 1:7. In the context of The Fellowship, \"walking in the light\" means the public confession of sin to one another and being completely transparent with others to keep one another accountable. The doctrine argues that God's forgiveness \"depends\" upon such public confession of sin.\n\nStuart Piggin suggests that they combined \"remnant\" and \"revival\" mentalities, and that occasional visitors to their meetings \"have been impressed by the Christian calibre of those who attended and could not fault the Scriptural teaching.\"\n\nThe Fellowship was criticised for broken relationships between Fellowship members and their families. Allegations were made that non-Fellowship people were unable to see their grandchildren, and that Fellowship people refused on occasion to attend funerals of non-Fellowship family members. However, these relationships have been mending, with families being reunited and grandchildren forming very close relationships with their grandparents, even aunts and uncles who were once distant. \"Fractured Fellowship\" makes this case based on primary sources, including private letters, that have never been published.\n\nIn February 2006, the Presbytery of Melbourne East excommunicated all 15 elders of the Camberwell congregation because of their handling of a complaint of emotional abuse against an elder.\n\nThis decision was appealed to the State Assembly, which upheld the decision of the Presbytery at its meeting in October 2006. Some members of the Victorian Assembly then appealed the decision to the General Assembly of Australia on the grounds that the Victorian Church had set up its own processes for discipline rather than operating under the General Assembly's Code as required and that the decision of the Victorian Assembly was made based on information that was not available to the Presbytery of East Melbourne when making its original decision, against its own process of discipline.\n\nThese appeals were upheld by the General Assembly of Australia at its Commission in August 2007. The clerk of the General Assembly, Dr Paul Logan, said that many felt that natural justice had been denied by the processes used. As a result of this decision the elders were reinstated.\n\nThe General Assembly of Australia established a committee to investigate material published about The Fellowship, including allegations of errors in doctrine and behaviour, promising to re-hear complaints.\n\nThe Victorian State Assembly was instructed by the General Assembly of Australia to take several actions including withdrawing from publication \"Fractured Fellowship: A Presbyterian Case Study\" and temporarily moving the parish of Camberwell from the Presbytery of Melbourne East to the Presbytery of Melbourne West until the matter could be settled. At its Commission in May 2008 the Victorian Assembly handled the private report of the committee of the General Assembly in public session, rejecting its instructions to retry the matter. Rev. Douglas Robertson from Scots' Church in Melbourne, who at the same meeting was elected the next Moderator of the Victorian Assembly, accused the General Assembly of Australia of censorship and unconstitutionally exceeding its authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "19730001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19730001", "title": "Travancore royal family", "text": "Travancore royal family\n\nThe Travancore Royal Family was the ruling house of the Indian princely state of Travancore.They lost their ruling rights in 1949 when Travancore merged with the Indian Union and their privileges were abolished by the Indian Union in 1971 by a constitutional amendment. Travancore and Kolathiri families are said to be those surviving among the original royal Velir Family's lineages, and are both descendants of the Ay/Venad Family, and related to the Cheras, Pandyas and Cholas. The last ruler in that bloodline was Maharaja Sree Moolam Thirunal, as the family of Maharaja Chithira Thirunal and successors was adopted in 1900 against the laws of Travancore succession from the Utsava Madom of Mavelikkara. Historians, including Robin Jeffry, Faucett and Samuel Mateer, are of the opinion that as with all other Kings of Malabar (Kerala), the Cochin Raja (Perumpadapum Moopil) and Venadu Swarupam was also of Nair origin. Mateer states: \"There seems reason to believe that the whole of the kings of Malabar also, notwithstanding the pretensions set up for them of late by their dependents, belong to the same great body, and are homogeneous with the mass of the people called Nairs.\n\nThe Royal family is alternatively known as the Kupaka Swaroopam, Thripappur Swaroopam, Venad Swaroopam, Vanchi Swaroopam etc. It has its seat today at Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, India. The last ruling Maharajah of Travancore was Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, died on 20 July 1991 after a stroke. Sree Uthradom Thirunal Marthanda Varma, the younger brother of the last ruling monarch of the Kingdom of Travancore, Maharajah Chitra Thirunal Rama Varma, died at a private hospital in the early hours on 16 December 2013. He was succeeded by Sree Moolam Thirunal Rama Varma, son of Maharani Karthika Thirunal Lakshmi Bayi and Lt. Col. Goda Varma G. V. Raja.\n\nThe family descends from ancient Kings The first recorded inscription of the Venad chiefdom that later became Travancore is in the copper-plate grants of land and privileges on Jewish & Christian tradesmen. The grants were made by the rulers of Kerala, the Perumal Viceroys of South Indian Kingdoms of the East Coast who were deputed to rule Kerala and witnessed by Chiefs including the Chief of Venad. \n\nIn the beginning, when aristocratic lineages rose to power, as in the case of small group broken away from its earlier tharavad through conquest. .When they acquired office, these groups seem to have severed ties with their former lineages and clans and to have conferred on themselves,a higher ritual rank as independent castes. These myths are likely to have been created to add to the aura of the dynasty.\n\nAccording to existing myths, the founding members of the Travancore royal family are said to have come to Kerala, from the banks of the Narmada river. Another claim is that Parashurama himself crowned the first official ruler in the dynasty although there is no evidence of this person historically.There is a claim that their history can be traced back to 820 C.E, which is based on the claim of descent from the Later Cheras of the three southern Indian \"Mandala\" Kingdoms namely \"Chera Mandalam\", \"Pandya Mandalam\" and \"Chola Mandalam\".According to another legend, a branch of the Chera family was sent to the extreme north of the Kerala region, where they settled and came to be known as the \"Mooshika\" Royal family, or the later Kolathiris, while another branch was deputed to go south to grapple with the Pandyan invasions.\nOne of the two branches of the Chera dynasty shifted to Venad/Quilon where it merged with the Ay kingdom. Sangramadhira Ravivarman Kulaśēkhara (1266–1314) was the most famed ruler of this Chera Ay dynasty.Numerous places are named after this Chera-Ay dynasty. Ravi Varman invaded the territories of the Pandyas and Cholas and performed imperial coronations at Madurai and Kanchipuram and thus threw off the Pandyan hegemony in the region. However his success was short lived and after him his successors could not hold on to these acquisitions of the Pandyas and Cholas. Sangramadhira Ravivarman Kulaśēkhara adopted two princesses from the related Kolathiri dynasty called Attingal and Kunnumel Ranis in 1305 C.E. The line of kings after Ravi Varman followed the Marumakkathayam law of matrilineal succession. The Royal family continued thus in the female line. Whenever there were no females to take forth the line, princesses were adopted from the Kolathiri family, the latest adoption being in 1994. Umayamma Rani who reigned towards the end of the 17th century was a prominent ruler. Marthanda Varma, the \"maker of modern Travancore\" and Dharma Raja were powerful rulers who re-established the power of monarchy in the state and destroyed that of the nobles. By the early 19th century the kingdom became a princely state under the British. The British government accorded the Maharajah of Travancore a high 19 gun salute outside Travancore, whereas locally and for all temple festivals, the highest salute of 21 guns were fired.Swathi Thirunal was one of the most popular rulers of the 19th century. He made contributions both in the field of administration as well as music. The reign of Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma brought about revolutionary reforms like the Temple Entry Proclamation, Free and Compulsory education for all etc. He was referred to as the \"Father of Travancore industrialization\" by A. Sreedhara Menon. V. P. Menon in his book stated that, under Chithira Thirunal's reign, Travancore had become the second most prosperous Princely State in the British Empire.\n\nThe women of Travancore Royal Family were popularly referred to as Attingal Queens. Attingal was also considered as the ancestral homes of Travancore royals. Historians like V. Nagam Ayya, A. Sreedhara Menon etc. say that Attingal was never a separate Kingdom but the estates and provinces given to the royal women by the male head of the family(King). AS the Kings of Travancore were the sons of Attingal Queens, the latter were held in high respect by the royal family as well as the public. This respect and high status led to the wrong notion that Attingal Queens were once sovereigns which was further compounded by the writings of many foreign historians and travellers. Even if they had any power, it was taken away by Maharajah Sree Anizham Thirunal Veerabaala Marthanda Varma. Many Attingal Queens misused their status and signed potentially dangerous treaties with foreign forces, without even consulting with the reigning Travancore Kings. Maharajah Sree Anizham Thirunal Marthanda Varma, anticipating the threat to the Kingdom's security, removed the powers of the Attingal Queens permanently and brought them under the complete control of the King. Thus, the Attingal Queens lost all private rights in the family properties, their power limited to the role of just a supervisor of such properties.\n\nKerala historian, Prof. A. Sreedhara Menon wrote : \"Early in his reign Marthanda Varma assumed direct control over the so-called Attingal 'Queendom'. This was not an annexation or conquest, but \"the amalgamation of Travancore with Attingal\". The theory that the Ranis of Attingal exercised sovereign powers is incorrect. The fact is that in political matters, the Ranis exercised no sovereign rights. Any grant of rights over immovable property by the Ranis required the King's previous assent or subsequent confirmation for its validity. The so-called Queendom of Attingal had its origin in the 5th century when two Princesses were adopted into the Venad family and the revenues from certain estates in and around Attingal were assigned to them. Since then, the female members of the ruling family of Travancore had come to be known as Attingal Ranis. It was only the male children of these Tamburatties who could inherit the throne. When Marthanda Varma decided to assume direct control over the estates of Attingal, he was not interfering in the affairs of a sovereign State. As the head of the royal family and the ruler of the State, he had every right to interfere in the affairs of a part of his kingdom. The Rani had neither territory nor subjects. What she possessed was nothing more than the control over the revenues of the estates, powers she exercised were delegated to her by the sovereign of the State.\"\n\nMaharajah Sree Anizham Thirunal dedicated the Kingdom of Travancore to his family deity Sri Padmanabhaswamy in 1750 January 3 and after that he was referred to as Sree Padmanabhadasa Vanchipaala Maharajah Sree Anizham Thirunal Veerabaala Marthanda Varma Kulasekharaperumal. The Kings of Travancore, taking the title of \"Sree Padmanabhadasa\", ruled the kingdom as the servant of that deity. This important donation of the Kingdom to the Temple was known as \"Thripadidaanam\". Travancore as a whole, thus became the property of Sri Padmanabhaswamy, the deity of the Travancore Royal family or in other words \"God's Own Country\". It is erroneously believed that use of the title \"Sree Padmanabhadasa\" before royal male members' names came into being after Thrippadidaanam, but this title was in use even in the 16th century. During the first birthday ceremony of Maharajah Karthika Thirunal Rama Varma(Dharmaraja) in 1725, he is referred to as \"Sree Padmanabhadasa\" which was much before the Thrippadidaanam(1750) by Maharajah Anizham Thirunal Veerabaala Marthanda Varma. The title of \"Sree Padmanabhadasa\" is prefixed to the name of every Travancore King while the royal women are \"Sree Padmanabhasevinis\". In order to get the eligibility for attaining the title of \"Sree Padmanabhadasa\", certain rituals must be completed at the birth of new royal male members. On the first birthday of every royal male members would be put on the 'Ottakkalmandapam' of the Sree Padmanabhaswami Temple and holy water from the temple will be sprinkled on the baby and only after completion of this ceremony, the royal child is proclaimed as \"Sree Padmanabhadasa\". The female members also have a ritual called \"Padiyettam\" which is conducted only after their \"Pallikettu\" (wedding of Travancore Princesses and Queens). Only those male and female members who complete these ceremonies are allowed in the temple affairs and are also provided respect as well as the titles associated with temple as well as the royal family.'\n\n The females of the royal family are styled as the \"Queens of Attingal\" with the titles of \"Attingal Mootha Thampurati\" (Senior Queen of Attingal) and \"Attingal Elaya Thampurati\" (Junior Queen of Attingal) and \"Attingal Kochu Thampurati\" (First Princess of Attingal). The first adoption to the Travancore Royal Family was in the early 14th century from the Kolathiri family because the Kolathiris are considered a sister dynasty by the Travancore Royalty. This adoption resulted in the branching of the Royal family into four families namely the branch at Trivandrum, another at Kottarakara known as \"Elayadathu\" Swaroopam, the \"Peraka Thavazhi\" branch of Nedumangad and the Quilon branch. The later two branches died out into the 18th century whereas the last Rani of Kottarakara fled after battle with Maharajah Anizham Thirunal Marthanda Varma. In 1630 two males were adopted from the Cochin Royal Family sowing the seed of dissension between the branches of the Royal family. Later in 1684 one male and two females were adopted from the Kolathiri family, from which family all subsequent adoptions were made, by Umayamma Rani. In 1688 two males, including Rajah Rama Varma, and 2 females were adopted and the famous Travancore King Anizham Thirunal Marthanda Varma was born to one of these princesses. In 1718 a princess was adopted, whose son was the later King Karthika Thirunal Rama Varma Dharma Raja. In 1748 again four princesses were adopted and Balarama Varma (1798–1810) belonged to this line. The next adoption of 1788 brought forth the famous Maharanis, Gowri Lakshmi Bayi and Gowri Parvati Bayi and all the male rulers up to 1924, the last ruler in this line being Maharajah Moolam Thirunal. \n\nIn 1857 two princesses, including Rani Lakshmi Bayi, were adopted from a branch of the Kolathiri family residing at Mavelikara since the 1790s, but by 1901 both these princesses and all their issue died. These adoptions were against the Travancore laws of succession Harper Collins,India 2016. </ref> In 1900 again two princesses were again adopted from Mavelikara, granddaughters of Raja Ravi Varma, Sethu Lakshmi Bayi and Sethu Parvathi Bayi (gave birth to the last ruling monarch of Travancore, Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma). The latest adoption occurred in 1994 by Princess Aswathi Thirunal Gowri Lakshmi Bayi who adopted a princess named Lekha Parvathi Bayi. However, Princess Lekha was disqualified by Hon. Supreme Court of India because of the lapses in adoption laws of the Constitution of India.\n\nAll members of the ruling family receive two names, an official personal name and a name associated with the 'star' or 'Thirunal' under which they are born,(e.g.: Maharajah Swathi Thirunal Rama Varma).\n\n\nThe Travancore Royal Family follows the Matrilineal inheritance. Marumakkathayam or the matrilineal system with inheritance and succession through the sisters' children in the female line. \n\nThe marriages of the princesses are known as \"Pallikettu\"s while those of the Maharajahs are known as \"Pattum Parivattavum Chaarthal\". The form of marriage is Sambandham and the consorts of the Princesses are from certain select families of \"Koyi Thampurans\" came from one of four or five royal houses or 'palaces' who were closely related to the royal family whereas the consorts of the Maharajahs belong to four houses known as Ammaveedus. The spouses of the Maharajahs and Maharanis are not considered members of the royal house owing to the prevalent Marumakkathayam Law. However they received many privileges owing to their position as consorts. An exception to this rule of selection and status of Prince Consort was made when Sree Сhithira Thirunal chose Colonel Godavarma Raja of Poonjar Royal House (not from the normal select royal houses) as the Consort for his only sister, Maharani Karthika Thirunal Lakshmi Bayi in 1934. Col. G. V. Raja went on to become a resourceful ally of Maharajah Sree Chithira Thirunal, made pivotal contributions to Kerala's infrastructure development as well as sports and tourism.\n\nThe kings of Thiruvithamkoor had been conditionally promoted to Kshatryahood with periodic performance of 16 mahādānams (great gifts in charity) such as Hiranya-garbhā, Hiranya-Kāmdhenu,and Hiranyāswaratā in which each of which thousands of Brahmins had been given costly gifts apart from each getting a minimum of 1 kazhanch (78.65 gm) of gold. In 1848 the Marquess of Dalhousie, then Governor-General of British India, was appraised that the depressed condition of the finances in Thiruvithamkoor was due to the mahādanams by the rulers. Lord Dalhousie, instructed Lord Harris, Governor of the Madras Presidency, warn the then King of Thiruvithamkoor Martanda Varma (Uttram Tirunal 1847–60) that if he did not put a stop to this practice, the Madras Presidency would take over his Kingdom's administration. This led to the cessation of the practice of mahādanams. All Travancore Kings including Sree Moolam Thirunal conducted \"Hiranyagarbham\" and \"Tulapurushadaanam\" ceremony. Maharajah Chithira Thirunal is the only King of Travancore not to have conducted \"Hiranyagarbham\" or \"Tulaapurushadaanam\" as he considered these as an extremely costly ceremonies.\n\nThe eldest son of Amma Maharani Sethu Parvathi Bayi was the last King of Travancore, Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, who signed the instrument of accession and amalgamated his Kingdom into the Union of India in 1949. The Royal family consists, in the line of Sethu Parvati Bayi, the last Maharajah Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma (unmarried), his brother Uthradom Thirunal Marthanda Varma, and of their late sister Maharani Karthika Thirunal Lakshmi Bayi (married to Col. Godavarma Raja/G. V. Raja of the Poonjar Royal Family). Princess Karthika Thirunal and Col. Godavarma Raja had two daughters (Pooyam Thirunal and Aswathi Thirunal) and two sons (Avittom Thirunal(died at the age of six) and Moolam Thirunal) (current Head of the Royal Family and Titular Maharajah). Uthradom Thirunal Marthanda Varma married Ammachi Panapillai Amma Shrimathi Radhadevi Pandalai of Kayamkulam (the daughter of Lieutenant-Colonel Krishnan Gopinathan Pandalai, MB, CM, FRCS, LRCP, Madras), and has a son, Ananthapadmanabhan Thampi and a daughter, Parvathidevi Kochamma. He used to reside at Pattom Palace, Trivandrum, till his death on 16 December 2013.\n\nThe current head of Travancore Royal family is Sree Padmanabhadasa Sree Moolam Thirunal Rama Varma, born on 12 June 1949 at Kowdiar Palace as the youngest son of Maharani Karthika Thirunal Lakshmi Bayi by her husband, Lieutenant-Colonel P.R. Godavarma Raja/G. V. Raja of Poonjar Palace. He became the Titular Heir Apparent or \"Elaya Rajah\" on 20 July 1991, after the death of Maharajah Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma. Moolam Thirunal Rama Varma is a Physics graduate from Mar Ivanios College, Trivandrum and also studied business management in London. After his education, he joined Aspinwall and Co Ltd in Mangalore 1971, and served as a consultant and in various executive positions like \"Additional Director 2004–2005, Director of Planning 2005–2007, Executive Director Aspinwall & Co (Travancore) Ltd since 2005, Member of Aspinwall Promoter Group since 2005, managing director of Aspinwall and Co Ltd in Mangalore since 2008\". In 1976 he married Ammachi Panapillai Amma Srimathi Rema Varma of Kilimanoor Palace but divorced in 2002. Sree Rama Varma then married Ammachi Panapillai Amma Srimathi Girija Thankachi of Vazhuthacadu, alias Dr. Girija Rama Varma, former radiologist based in London and has a daughter from her first marriage. The couple after their wedding in 2002 used to live in Mangalore till 2013. After he assumed the Titular Maharajah's position, the couple moved to Kowdiar, Trivandrum, and has settled down there. According to Royalark.net website, Sree Rama Varma has no children from either marriages, till date.\n\nPrincess Pooyam Thirunal Gowri Parvathi Bayi is married to Sri Chembrol Raja Raja Varma and has two children, Prince Aswathi Thirunal Rama Varma and Princess Thiruvathira Thirunal Lakshmi Bayi. Lakshmi Bayi married a wellknown journalist and writer, Prof. M.D. Nalapatt (son of famous writer Kamala Das). As Princess Thiruvathira Thirunal Lakshmi Bayi's marriage was not as per the tradition, Lekha varma of Mavelikkara Palace was adopted by Princess Aswathi Thirunal Gowri Lakshmi Bayi in 1996 into the royal family to continue in the female line and became Bharani Thirunal Lekha Parvathi Bayi, but against the 'pathivu shasanam' of Anizhom Thirunal Marthanda Varma. Classical Musician, Prince Aswathi Thirunal Rama Varma remain unmarried till date.\n\nPrincess Aswathi Thirunal Gowri Lakshmi Bayi was married to Late. Sri Sukumaran Raja Raja Varma of Palikkara West Palace, Thiruvalla. He died from injuries after a car accident, at the Ochira District Hospital, Kerala, 30 December 2005. The couple has three children: Prince Pooruruttathi Thirunal Marthanda Varma, Prince Avittom Thirunal Aditya Varma, and Princess Bharani Thirunal Lekha Parvathi Bayi(adopted). Prince Pooruruttathi Thirunal Marthanda Varma married Ammachi Panapillai Amma Srimathi Gopika Nair alias Kalaimamani Gopika Marthanda Varma or Gopikavarma, the famous Mohiniyattam dancer as well as Director of Dasya Dance School, Member Advisory Board of the Ability Foundation in Chennai etc. They have a son, Sri Vishnu Thampi. Prince Avittom Thirunal Aditya Varma married Shrimathi Resmi Varma of Mariapalli Palace, Kottayam in 2000. They have twin daughters, Gowri Varma and Prabha Varma. Princess Bharani Thirunal Lekha Parvathi Bayi married Anoopkumar Varma and has a daughter Princess Swathi Thirunal.\n\nMaharani Pooradam Thirunal Sethu Lakshmi Bayi had two daughters, Princesses Uthram Thirunal Lalithamba Bayi and Karthika Thirunal Indira Bayi. Revathi Thirunal Balagopal Varma, the grandson of Maharani Pooradam Thirunal, is the titular Elayarajah of Travancore.\n\nThe Constitutional Amendment of 1971 terminated the status of the Maharajahs of the erstwhile princely states as rulers and abolished their rights to receive privy purses. However the other clauses of the agreements signed between the Government of India and the Princes in 1947 legally still hold. The Royal Family of Travancore has no administrative authority since 1971. Till 1956 Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma served as \"Rajpramukh\" of Thiru-Kochi. Later in 1971 while the family lost their privy purse and other privileges, the rights of the family in the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple were respected and the current head of the family, Sree Padmanabhadasa Sree Moolam Thirunal Rama Varma, fulfills his duty towards the temple as the Titular Maharajah of Travancore and as the Trustee of Sree Padmanabhaswami Temple, Trivandrum, even though he has no part in the administration of the temple. The allowances of all the family members born prior to 1949 are also still paid by the Government of Kerala.\n\nSome prominent members of the Travancore royal family today include Princess Bharani Thirunal (Rukmini Varma), Princess Aswathy Thirunal Gowri Lakshmi Bayi, Prince Punartham Thirunal Shreekumar Varma, Princess Makam Thirunal (Dr Lakshmi Raghunandan) and musician Prince Aswathi Thirunal Rama Varma (disciple of Vechoor Harihara Subramania Iyer and Dr. Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna).\n\nThe Padmanabhapuram Palace was the main residence of the Travancore Maharajahs whereas the Ranis of Attingal resided at that place in their own palaces. Later the royal family moved to Trivandrum wherein the females resided at the Sree Padam Palace and the men in many other Palaces like Thulsi Hill Palace, Rangavilaasom Palace, Kuthiramalika Palace etc.\n\nThe branch of Sethu Lakshmi Bayi had sold all their properties in Kerala in the late 1940s and early 1950s itself and moved outside the State. Most of them are settled at places like Chennai, Bangalore, also in foreign countries like United States of America, Australia, South Africa etc. They don't take part in any royal rituals or temple ceremonies, and is not in touch with Sethu Parvathi Bayi's family in Trivandrum.\n\nAfter the Constitutional Amendment of 1971, the properties and estates of the Royal Family were partitioned and divided into two equal halves among the branches of Maharani Sethu Lakshmi Bayi and Maharani Sethu Parvathi Bayi. However certain legal disputes continued between Balagopala Varma (the grandson of Sethu Lakshmi Bayi) and Maharajah Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, regarding the ownership of the Stalemond Palace in Poojapura. According to the verdict given by the Supreme Court of India in the matter, the terms of division of properties was accepted by all members of both branches of the royal family. But later Balagopal Varma(Revathi Nal), who at the time of property division was a minor, accused that Sree Chithira Thirunal had unlawfully taken away a property, Poojappura Stalemond Palace, that rightly belonged to his grandmother, Sethu Lakshmi Bayi . Sree Chithira Thirunal had given away this Palace to the Government of Kerala to construct a new Medical Centre, the now famous, Sree Chitra Thirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology, in 1974. Balagopala Varma(Revathi Nal) also accused that Sree Chithira Thirunal had unlawfully taken away the traditional holdings of Sethu Lakshmi Bayi, as Senior Rani of Attingal. The court also dismissed this argument while giving the final verdict in 1991. Sethu Lakshmi Bayi's case was presented to the then Viceroy of India in the 30s but was dismissed by him, as former Maharajah of Travancore, Anizham Thirunal Marthanda Varma had already removed all the powers of Attingal Queens in 18th century itself. Revathi Nal Balagopala Varma took his grievance first to the High Court of Kerala and later to the Supreme Court of India. However, at both courts, the verdicts came in favour of Sree Chithira Thirunal and the appelant, Revathi Nal's, case was dismissed in the final judgement of 1991 by the Supreme Court of India. The Maharajah had donated the \"Stalemond Palace\" for the creation of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences & Technology, Trivandrum The case was won by Maharajah Sree Chithira Thirunal after the final verdict given by the Supreme Court Of India in 1991.\n\nPresently only the descendants of Sethu Parvathi Bayi live at Kowdiar Palace as it belongs to her legal heirs and their descendants. They are all based in Trivandrum and are also the ones who keep alive the traditions and rituals of their ancient dynasty including the upkeep of the famous Sree Padmanabhaswami Temple.\n\n\n\nThis senior line failed, leading to adoptions from another matriline of the house:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13398768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13398768", "title": "Walter Hollenweger", "text": "Walter Hollenweger\n\nWalter Jacob Hollenweger (born 1927 in Antwerp died August 10, 2016) was a Swiss theologian and author, recognized as an expert on worldwide Pentecostalism. His two best known books are: \"The Pentecostals\" (1972) and \"Pentecostalism: Origins and Developments Worldwide\" (1997). \n\nFrom 1949-1958, Hollenweger served as the pastor in a Pentecostal Mission, but in 1962 was ordained in the Swiss Reformed Church.\n\nIn 1955 he began studying at the Faculty of Theology of the University of Zurich. He wrote a ten volume doctoral dissertation \"Handbuch der Pfingstbewegung\" (\"Handbook of the Pentecostal Movement\") published in 1966. The core of this work was published in various languages and became a standard work on Pentecostalism. His numerous publications in the years following made him one of the premier interpreters of this movement.\n\nHollenweger, who served as the first Secretary for Evangelism in the Division of World Mission and Evangelism of the World Council of Churches from 1965 to 1971, long continued to be a staunch advocate of ecumenism for Pentecostal churches.\n\nDuring 1971 to 1989 Hollenweger was Professor of Mission at the University of Birmingham and Selly Oak Colleges at Birmingham, U.K.\n\nNamed in his honour, the Hollenweger Center at VU University, Amsterdam, is an academic platform for and across different disciplines within the field of Pentecostal/Charismatic studies, providing opportunities to study Pentecostalism on MA and PhD level (theology, missiology, religious studies, anthropology of religion).\n\n"}
{"id": "44526775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44526775", "title": "Zed (comics)", "text": "Zed (comics)\n\nMary \"Zed\" Martin is a fictional character in the \"Hellblazer\" series published by DC Comics' Vertigo imprint. A psychic artist who met John Constantine in a London alleyway, she was recruited by an extremist Christian group called 'The Resurrection Crusade' to bear the Second Coming, which Constantine stopped from happening. She first appeared in \"Hellblazer\" #4.\n\nZed met the British mage John Constantine in a London alleyway, and was instantly attracted to him. She brought John back to her apartment to show him her artwork. One of the sketches adorning Zed's wall was that of Constantine himself, even though she had only just met him. Moments after familiarizing herself with John, she assisted him in rescuing his ten-year-old niece Gemma Masters from a psychotic member of the Damnation Army.\n\nShortly thereafter, the demon Nergal sent his grotesque agent Ironfist the Avenger to Zed's apartment on a mission to kill Constantine. Fortunately, John's quick wit convinced the creature to destroy itself while Zed and he fled to safety. He brought her to the home of his friend Ray Monde where Zed spent the night. The following morning, Zed's father Elder Martin, the apparent leader of the Resurrection Crusade barged into Monde's home and abducted her. Bringing her back to the Crusaders headquarters, they prepared her for a spiritual ritual. The ritual required a virgin, but unfortunately for the Crusaders, Zed's evening with John Constantine robbed her of her \"purity\". She then helps stop the Fear Machine, and later assists John in finding out about his twin.\n\nZed later reappeared as a pagan sorceress living on the coast of Scotland, where she helps another pagan group who has recently been harassed out of England by a cabal of secret police. In this incarnation, Zed has embraced a sort of feminist, goddess worshipping spiritual inclination which plays a crucial role in Constantine's efforts to thwart another conspiracy, this time by a group of Masonic demon-worshippers who have infitrated the upper echelons of the British government.\n\nActress Angélica Celaya portrays Zed in the TV series \"Constantine\". The female lead for the series, Zed is portrayed as a Hispanic-American character as opposed to her comics counterpart who is British. She gets visions from objects and people that she touches, and would often record these visions by sketching them. Constantine describes her as a \"bitser\", or someone with \"bitser everything\" in her, which in her case includes powers of precognition, retrocognition, and clairtangence. Her innate abilities bring on some powerful emotional connections and often put her at odds with Constantine, who is portrayed as an aloof loner who avoids all emotional connections.\n"}
