{"id": "190003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190003", "title": "Analog recording", "text": "Analog recording\n\nAnalog recording (Greek, \"ana\" is \"according to\" and \"logos\" \"relationship\") is a technique used for the recording of analog signals which, among many possibilities, allows analog audio and analog video for later playback.\n\nAnalog audio recording began with mechanical systems such as the phonautograph and phonograph. Later, electronic techniques such as wire recording and tape recorder were developed.\n\nAnalog recording methods store signals as a continuous signal \"in\" or \"on\" the media. The signal may be stored as a physical texture on a phonograph record, or a fluctuation in the field strength of a magnetic recording. This is different from digital recording where digital signals are quantized and represented as discrete numbers.\n\nThe phonautograph is the earliest known device for recording sound.\n\nThe phonograph was the first machine used to capture and reproduce analog sound, and was invented by the well-known inventor Thomas Edison in 1877. Edison incorporated various elements into his Phonograph that would become staples that can be found in recording devices to this day.\n\nFor a sound to be recorded by the Phonograph, it has to go through three distinct steps. First, the sound enters a cone-shaped component of the device, called the microphone diaphragm. That sound causes the microphone diaphragm, which is connected to a small metal needle, to vibrate. The needle then vibrates in the same way, causing its sharp tip to etch a distinctive groove into a cylinder, which was made out of tinfoil.\n\nIn order to playback the sound recorded on one of the tinfoil cylinders, the recording process is essentially reversed. As the cylinder spins, the needle follows the groove created by the previous recording session. This causes the needle to vibrate, and then the diaphragm. This vibration comes out of the diaphragm, which is now functioning as a sort of sound amplification device, much like the bell on any wind instrument. The result is an audible reproduction of the originally recorded sound.\n\nEdison's phonograph was the first of its kind, but drawbacks were nevertheless obvious. The biggest of these, and the one that ended up being fixed first, came from the physical contact between the phonograph needle and the tinfoil diaphragm. Because the needle had to continually make contact with the groove in the diaphragm every time the recording was played, the groove would wear down. This meant that every single time a recording was played, it was one step closer to being gone forever. Another problem with the phonograph was the permanence of its recordings. Unlike music today, which can be edited endlessly, the music captured by phonograph machines were single-take, live recordings.\n\nThe last problem with the phonograph was related to fidelity. Fidelity is the similarity/difference between the original recorded sound, and that same sound after it has been reproduced by a playback device, in this case the phonograph. As can be expected from such an early audio recording machine, the fidelity of Edison's phonograph was extremely low. This lack of sound quality is why the phonograph was originally used to record speeches, meetings, and telephone calls, rather than music.\n\nFans of modern record players are already familiar with one very early improvement on the phonograph, known as the gramophone. Inventor Emile Berliner created the device in 1887, only ten years after Edison's original device.\n\nBerliner's main improvement to the phonograph was related to the component of the device that actually held the recorded information. The previously used tinfoil cylinders were awkwardly shaped, making them hard to store. They could also not be reproduced economically, which was another reason why they were not seen as a viable option for recorded music.\nBerliner realized these disadvantages, and set out to create a better version of the tinfoil cylinder. What he came up with was not a cylinder at all, but was rather a flat circular disc much like modern vinyl records. These discs could not only be easily stacked and stored for safe-keeping, but were also comparatively easy to reproduce. This quality allowed for the mass production of recorded discs, which was the first step towards commercially recorded music.\n\nUnfortunately, though the Gramophone was a large step up from the Phonograph commercially, it still had many of the same problems. The mass production possibilities created by Berliner’s flat discs got companies thinking about recording music, but since nothing had been done to address the low fidelity issue, the industry had yet to really take off. The problems with finality and breakdown of recordings started by the Phonograph were equally as prominent with the Gramophone.\n\nThe next great advancement in analog sound recording came in the form of the telegraphone, which was created by Danish inventor Valdemar Poulsen between 1898 and 1900. This machine was vastly different from the gramophone or the phonograph, in that instead of recording sound mechanically, it recorded using a process called electromagnetism.\n\nPoulsen was able to transmit an electrical signal, much like the one that would broadcast over the radio or a telephone, and then capture it on a magnetizable element, in this case a length of steel wire, which was wrapped around a bass drum.\n\nPoulsen's telegraphone was not without its share of problems. First, the reels of steel wire were extremely heavy, weighing approximately each. Secondly, steel's scarcity at the time raised the price of recording; a single minute of recording would cost a full dollar, and the price was further increased because multiple recordings were necessary in order to capture the best rendition. Moreover, steel wire could be dangerous, with a risk comparable to that of a bandsaw.\n\nLike the recording devices that came before it, the telegraphone recordings were nearly impossible to edit. Rather than cutting and splicing together multiple takes, as could easily be done with scissors or a computer in future recording devices, this machine required both a welding torch and a soldering tool to modify.\n\nIn 1935, inventor Fritz Pfleumer took the electromagnetic recording idea and took it to the next level. Rather than using heavy, expensive, and dangerous steel wire like Poulsen, Pfleumer realized that he could coat normal strips of paper with tiny particles of iron. The iron would allow the paper to be magnetized in the same way as the steel wire, but would eliminate most of its shortcomings. The magnetophon operated with a process nearly identical to that of the telegraphone. An inscriber, called the recording head, passes over the electromagnetic paper strip, creating patterns of varying magnetic polarity within it, which can later be played back. The playback is achieved using a reversal of the recording process. The pre-magnetized paper, which had come to be known as tape, passed over a coil, creating changes in magnetic flux. These changes were translated into an electric current, which when amplified produced a replica of the previously recorded sounds.\n\nThere were many advantages of tape recording, but the most important was that it led to the development of multitracking. Multitracking occurs when multiple takes of a performance, which were recorded at separate times, are brought together to play simultaneously. This is the method all recording studios use to this day, in order to record all of the separate instruments of a song, and get the best possible takes from all of the musicians.\n\nA reel of tape could also hold far more recorded information than previous mediums. For instance, Berliner's discs held only a few minutes of recording, meaning that each disc usually contained a single song, or multiple short clips. Pfleumer's tape reels, on the other hand, could hold up to thirty minutes of sound. This ability is what eventually led to the concept of a music \"album\", or collection of multiple songs.\n\nThe original magnetophon had its share of setbacks as well. Namely, the problem of low fidelity found in previous devices had yet to be solved. Though audiences and inventors had not yet experienced what high fidelity recording would even sound like, they knew that the sound they were hearing from recordings needed to be improved before any kind of recorded music industry could be expected.\n\nThe introduction of tape bias to recording systems improved fidelity to acceptable and eventually high-fidelity performance. Adding a DC bias to the signal sent to the recording head reduced distortion in the recording. The use of an AC bias further reduced distortion and greatly improved the frequency response of recording systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "27744021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27744021", "title": "Anga Lipi", "text": "Anga Lipi\n\nAnga Lipi (অঙ্গ লিপি) is a historical writing system or script of the Anga area of India.It is believed to have been originated from Mithilakshara or the Tirhuta script used to write Maithili.\n\n\"Anga\" refers to a region in what is now Bihar and Jharkhand states of India, and \"Lipi\" means \"script\". \nThe Anga Script is mentioned in an ancient Sanskrit language Buddhist book the \"Lalitvistar\" (ललितविस्तर), which names Anga Lipi relatively early in the list of 64 scripts known to the Buddha. The script was specific to the Anga region, or Anga Mahajanapada, and was among those known to Buddha. The script was mentioned as the fourth most important script of Ancient India in one version. Arthur Coke Burnell thought that some of the sixty four scripts mentioned in \"Lalitvistar\" were mythical, but he considered some, including Dravid, Anga and Banga, to be real, though not appearing as distinct alphabets until the 9th or 10th century CE. (Burnell regarded this passage as a late interpolation.)\n\nAnga Lipi and Eastern Nagari script might have been derived from Brahmic, with some regional characteristics. This supports the belief that the development of local characteristics in alphabets was continuing from earlier times.\n\nIt reflects the early development of local variants of Indian alphabets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21462191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21462191", "title": "Apostrophe Protection Society", "text": "Apostrophe Protection Society\n\nThe Apostrophe Protection Society is a UK society that has \"the specific aim of preserving the correct use of this currently much abused punctuation mark\". It was founded in 2001 by John Richards, a retired sub-editor, in response to his observations of widespread incorrect use of the apostrophe.\n\nThe website includes many claimed examples of apostrophe \"abuse\"; it says it is intended to help correct, rather than chide, offenders. Richards says he has a standard, polite letter that explains the basic rules for apostrophe use, which he sends to supporters to forward on to offending businesses and other organisations.\n\nIn 2001, Richards won an Ig Nobel Prize for \"his efforts to protect, promote, and defend the differences between plural and possessive\".\n"}
{"id": "19823504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19823504", "title": "Architect of record", "text": "Architect of record\n\nArchitect of record is the architect or architecture firm whose name appears on a building permit issued for a specific project on which that architect or firm performed services. Building permits are issued by a government agency with the authority in a certain jurisdiction to regulate building construction and enforce building codes. Generally, the building contractor submits the application for the permit to the regulatory authority, along with a building project's drawings and specifications (called collectively \"construction documents\"). But in some jurisdictions, the architect is required to submit the construction documents needed to obtain the building permit. And with some construction projects, more than one building permit is issued. That occurs when several different architects perform services on discrete parts of a single building project. More than one architect of record, therefore, would exist in such a case.\n\nWhen an architecture firm is working on a project that is outside of their geographic location or range of expertise, it will often choose to work with an architect that is either local to the project site or skilled in that particular area of expertise. In this case, the primary architect works with the local architect in order to complete the project, and the local architect becomes the \"architect of record.\" This type of working relationship is common when high-profile architects (or \"starchitects\") win design bids but find themselves in need of architects with more practical skills or knowledge of local conditions. Or more pragmatically, the high-profile architect simply needs an architect who is local to the project site, facilitating quicker site visits and project oversight.\n\nThe local architecture firms that are responsible for corresponding with city agencies about code compliance, tender documents, client communication and creating up to 90 percent of the construction documents and carry out construction inspections are similar, but should be referred as the \"executive architect.\" \n"}
{"id": "29991398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29991398", "title": "Assistive Technology Industry Association", "text": "Assistive Technology Industry Association\n\nThe Assistive Technology Industry Association (ATIA) is a not-for-profit membership organization of manufacturers, sellers and providers of technology-based assistive devices and/or services, for people with disabilities. ATIA represents the interests of its members to business, government, education, and the many agencies that serve people with disabilities. One goal of the ATIA is to \"speak with the common voice\" for Its mission is to serve as the collective voice of the Assistive Technology (AT) industry so that the best products and services are delivered to people with disabilities.\n\nFounded in 1998, ATIA is governed by a 10-member Board of Directors. ATIA has over 120 individual and corporate members. Its offices are located in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nSince 1999, ATIA has held annual conferences that provide forums for education and communication to professional practitioners serving those with disabilities. The annual conferences are also open to people with disabilities, their caregivers, their family members, and members of the general public. In 2009, ATIA began providing educational online webinars to serve these groups. ATIA has also held conferences in collaboration with the Job Accommodation Network and United States Business Leadership Network (USBLN). The published result of one such conference is \"Roadmaps for Enhancing Employment of Persons with Disabilities through Accessible Technology\".\n\nATIA produces the Assistive Technology Outcomes and Benefits Journal (ATOB) in a collaborative scholarly partnership with the Special Education Assistive Technology Center (SEAT Center) at Illinois State University. ATOB publishes articles related to the outcomes and benefits of assistive technology for persons with disabilities across the lifespan. ATOB is a peer-reviewed annual publication, first published in 2004.\n\nATIA is involved in industry standard setting through its Accessibility Interoperability Alliance (AIA) division. AIA was initiated in 2007 as an independent organization by a group of leading Information Technology (IT) and Assistive Technology (AT) companies, content providers, and other key engineering organizations. Since then they have been working to develop standards and collaborate on the creation of solutions to long-standing compatibility problems that hinder the development of accessibility solutions for people with disabilities. In 2010 AIA become a technical and engineering division within ATIA.\n\nATIA partners with other organizations in the technology and disability fields to promote adoption and awareness of the ways that technology can benefit people with disabilities. Alliance Partners are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12589089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12589089", "title": "Ave Perez Jacob", "text": "Ave Perez Jacob\n\nAve Perez Jacob is a Filipino writer, columnist, literary critic and novelist popular for his socio-political works. He was one of few Tagalog writers who popularized short stories with theme of injustice and tragedy set on the realistic portrayal of poverty during the 1960s. His short story \"Guwardiya\" won a Palanca Awards in 1975. He is also the author of the novel \"Sibol sa mga Guho.\"\nProf. Ave Perez Jacob was honored by the Unyon ng mga Manunulat sa Pilipinas (UMPIL) with “2001 Gawad Pambansang Alagad ni Balagtas” for his socio-realist novels and short stories.\n\nJacob, who graduated from Manuel L. Quezon University, is currently teaching literature and Filipino at the Polytechnic University of the Philippines.\n"}
{"id": "31149371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31149371", "title": "Avrom Reyzen", "text": "Avrom Reyzen\n\nAvrom Reyzen (Abraham Reisen) (1876 – 1953) was a Yiddish writer, poet and editor, and the elder brother of the Yiddishist Zalman Reisen. \n\nReyzen was born in Koidanov (Minsk, eastern Belorussia). Supported by Yaknehoz (pseudonym of Yeshaye Nisn Hakoyen Goldberg), while in his early teens Reyzen sent articles to \"Dos Yudishes folks-blat\" in St Petersburg, Russia. \n\nHe corresponded with Jacob Dinezon and I. L. Peretz. In 1891, they published Reyzen’s poem \"Ven dos lebn is farbitert\" (\"When Life Is Embittered\") in their \"Di yudishe bibliotek\" (\"The Yiddish Library\"). His first story, \"A kapore der noz abi a goldener zeyger mit 300 rubl nadn\" (\"Damn the Nose, As Long As There Is a Dowry of a Watch and 300 Rubles\") was published in Vilna in 1892. \n\nIn 1895, he joined the Russian army, serving in a musicians’ unit until 1899. \n\nIn addition to writing for the Zionist \"Der yud\", in 1900 Reyzen created the literary anthology \"Dos tsvantsikste yorhundert\" (\"The Twentieth Century\") which included work by I. L. Peretz, Hersh Dovid Nomberg, David Pinski, and others. A believer in the socialist ideology, Reyzen wrote for the Bund, sometimes under the pseudonym M. Vilner, during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nIn 1902, Reyzen published a poetry collection, \"Tsayt lider\" (\"Poems of the Time\"), and in 1903 issued a book of stories, \"Ertseylungen un bilder\" (\"Stories and Scenes\"). He wrote for \"Der fraynd\" and \"Der tog\" in St Petersburg.\n\nA founder (with his brother Zalman, Chaim Zhitlovsky, I.L. Peretz, and his close friends Scholem Asch and Hersch Dovid Nomberg) of Yiddishism, he took part in the Czernowitz Yiddish Language Conference of 1908 at which Yiddish was proclaimed a national language of the Jews. \n\nIn 1910, he began the Warsaw literary weekly \"Eyropeyishe literatur\" (\"European Literature\") and another called \"Fraye erd\" (\"Free Land\").\n\nIn early 1911, Reyzen moved to New York City and contributed to \"Forverts\" and \"Tsukunft\". His \"Troyerike motivn gevidmet oreme layt\" (\"Sad Motifs Dedicated to the Poor\") was published (at Sholem Aleichem's recommendation) in Philadelphia’s \"Shtot tsaytung\". From 1929 he worked exclusively for \"Forverts\", where he wrote a story each week, without a break. In 1935 he completed the three-volume autobiographical \"Epizodn fun mayn lebn\" (\"Episodes From My Life\").\n\nIrving Howe wrote about Reyzen:\n\"The miracle of a Reisen is not that he derives from the people but that he remains at harmony with them... Precisely because he regards being a Jew as a \"natural\" condition of life, beyond query or challenge, his poems and stories take his culture utterly for granted: they neither explain nor justify\"\n\nAt his death in 1953, Reyzen was eulogized:\n\"There are many Yiddish writers who owe their success to Reisen's encouragement. For years he published and edited, under great sacrifices, Yiddish journals with the primary aim of providing a platform for young, struggling writers... He had no arrogance, no pretensions and no personal vanity.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4454145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4454145", "title": "BSEG", "text": "BSEG\n"}
{"id": "2797631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2797631", "title": "Bathari language", "text": "Bathari language\n\nBathari is an Afro-Asiatic language of Oman, located on the southeast coast facing the Khuriya Muriya Islands (17°40′46″N 55°22′19″E). The language is very similar to Mehri and some members of the Bathari tribe speak Mehri instead of Bathari.\n\nThe first westerner to discover the existence of Bathari was Bertram Thomas in 1929.\n\nThe name \"Bathari\" has been variously rendered: \"Batahari, Bautahari, Botahari, Bathara. \"\n\nThe stress always falls on the last long syllable in Bathari, unless the stress unit is only composed of short syllables. In this case, the first syllable is stressed. As with other Modern South Arabian languages, Bathari nouns have two genders (masculine and feminine) and three numbers (singular, dual and plural), but the dual is reportedly obsolete. The ending \"-(v)t\" marks feminine nouns, apart from loanwords from Arabic that end in \"-h'.\"' Also, it is not Shahri but Bathari which retains (or perhaps has retaken, from Arabic) the Arabic-like 'ain.\n\nSome Bathari words were mentioned in Johnstone's Mehri Lexicon and Jibbali Lexicon (1981). Stroomer affirms that it is a dialect of Mehri (p. xii), whereas Simeone-Senelle considers it a separate language. She does admit, however, that Bathari, along with Harsfsi, is closely related to Mehri.\n\nIn terms of speaker numbers they range from 12 to 20 for Bathari to over 180,000 for Mehri.\n\nIn addition to the threat of Arabic, Mehri also threatens to replace the language due to its less prestigious position. The tribe seems to be dying out with the language also under threat from modem education solely in Arabic. The Bathari language is nearly extinct. Estimates are that the number of remaining speakers are under 100.\n\n"}
{"id": "53471615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53471615", "title": "Brothers Halbertsma", "text": "Brothers Halbertsma\n\nThe Brothers Halbertsma were three brothers born in the Frisian village of Grou towards the end of the 18th century, who played a role of crucial importance for the development of a written literature in the Western Frisian language. These three brothers were:\n\nApart from these three writers, who are usually meant when speaking of the 'Brothers Halbertsma', there was a fourth brother, who did not produce any literary work:\n\nThe Brothers Halbertsma were all born in the house of their parents on Kowemerk (\"Cow Market\") street in Grou, a village in the central part of the Dutch province of Friesland. They were sons of the baker and small-time merchant Hidde Joasts Halbertsma (1756–1809) and his wife Ruerdtsje (or Riurtk) Tsjallings Binnerts (1767–1809). Two children who were born later died in early childhood, the little boy in 1803, and the little girl in 1805. Justus, Tsjalling and Eeltsje were much like their father, while Binnert more resembled their mother.\n\nRuerdtsje Binnerts was a scion of a prominent family in Grou. Her people were Mennonites, and although her husband had been raised a Calvinist, he converted after marrying her. From Justus' letters Ruerdtsje emerges as a smart businesswoman, a loving mother, and a deeply religious person. About Hidde Halbertsma, the father, much less is known. It is thought that he might have been a mariner before his marriage. He is described as a gentle soul, who was, however, apt to take offence, and could be quite sharp-tongued in such cases. In 1784, he published a long Dutch-language poem under the title \"Schrikkelijke IJsgang en Overstroominge in Gelderland\" (\"Terrible Ice-drift and Flooding in Gelderland\"). From this intriguing work it is clear that his sons' literary talents were a family trait.\n\nThe Brothers Halbertsma were very close, possibly as a consequence of the fact that both their parents died at a relatively young age in 1809, when Justus was just twenty years of age, Tsjalling seventeen, Binnert thirteen, and Eeltsje only eleven. Later, Justus and Eeltsje started to write short fiction and poetry which can be considered folk literature. As Justus acted as editor for Eeltsje's work for his entire life, their poetry and prose were strongly connected from the very beginning and for the most part published together. For that reason the linguist Foeke Buitenrust Hettema would later describe Halbertsma as the 'literary agent' of his brothers Eeltsje and Tsjalling.\n\nIn 1822, Justus and Eeltsje's early works were collected under the title \"De Lapekoer fan Gabe Skroar\" (\"Gabe Tailor's Rag Basket\"), a booklet consisting of 36 pages, and including six poems and one short story. This publication was attributed to the fictional 'Gabe Skroar', a lame farmer's son who became a tailor and a writer, but died young. This character was in all probability a creation of Eeltsje's. Hiding behind such a fictional author was fairly normal at that time. A second, expanded edition of \"De Lapekoer fan Gabe Skroar\", consisting of 237 pages, was published in 1829, followed by a third, further expanded edition in 1834, running to almost 500 pages of a larger size.\n\nAfter that, additions were published separately in 1836 (\"De Noarger Rún oan Gabe Skroar\"), 1840 (\"Twigen út in Alde Stamme\"), 1854 (\"Leed en Wille en de Flotgerzen\"), and 1858 (\"De Jonkerboer\" and \"Teltsjes fan de Wize Mannen fan Esonstêd\"). Eventually, contributions by the third brother, Tsjalling, were also inserted. After the death of all three Brothers Halbertsma, their short fiction and poetry was gathered under the supervision of librarian and archivist Gerben Colmjon and bookseller and historian Wopke Eekhoff. In 1871, it was published by the firm of J. de Lange in Deventer, under the title of \"Rimen en Teltsjes\" (\"Rhymes and Tales\").\n\nThis work is now thought of as the national book of Western Frisian literature, and although the literary value of this collection was later disputed by some critics, it is undeniable that \"Rimen en Teltsjes\" and its predecessor \"De Lapekoer fan Gabe Skroar\" played a role of crucial importance in the development of a new literary tradition after Frisian had been used almost exclusively as a spoken language for three centuries. In 1949, author and literary critic Anne Wadman wrote that the Halbertsmas gave \"the Western Frisian people a literary monument, in which it saw its own life as a nation [...] reflected.\" As of today \"Rimen en Teltsjes\" still occupies the first slot in the ranking of Western Frisian literary classics.\n\n"}
{"id": "30691844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30691844", "title": "Chalkboard eraser", "text": "Chalkboard eraser\n\nA chalkboard eraser (or blackboard duster) is a special type of eraser specifically used to erase chalk markings on slating paint (used on chalkboards and slates). It is most commonly made of felt strips attached to an ergonomically designed handle.\n\nChalkboard erasers were first invented around 1863 by John L. Hammett, who owned some stores that sold and created school products in Rhode Island and then later in Boston. Mostly slates were sold there as well as chalk and so on. At the time, rags or old cloths were used to erase and get rid of the chalk markings on slates in schools, offices, and for the most part, everywhere. Hammett created the chalkboard before the invention of the chalkboard eraser by creating \"slating paint\". Hammett then, during a presentation on his chalkboard \"discovered\" that wool felt strips wiped off the chalk writing better than rags. Following this discovery he gathered a team to create the custom eraser for sale. The erasers proved to be a success for Hammett and, later in the 19th century, he created a company that also sold inexpensive supplies for teachers and schools, such as paper, ink, etc. Hammett ultimately sold the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "45260804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45260804", "title": "Chashan language", "text": "Chashan language\n\nChashan 茶山 (autonym: \") is a Burmish language spoken in Pianma Township 片马镇, Lushui County, Yunnan, China, in Xiapianma 下片马, Gangfang 岗房, and Gulang 古浪 villages (Dai, et al. 2009). It is closely related to Lashi, and has 56.3% lexical similarity with Lashi of Lushui County out of a sample of 1,000 vocabulary words (Dai 2010:118).\n\nIn Pianma Township, there are 587 Chashan people officially classified as ethnic Lisu. The local people consider the Chashan to be a distinct ethnic group, separate from the Jingpo people (). The Chashan autonym is \" (Echang 峨昌), similar to that of the Achang. More Chashan speakers may be found across the border in Kachin State, Burma.\n\n"}
{"id": "540603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540603", "title": "Conceptual blending", "text": "Conceptual blending\n\nConceptual blending, also called conceptual integration or view application, is a theory of cognition developed by Gilles Fauconnier and Mark Turner. According to this theory, elements and vital relations from diverse scenarios are \"blended\" in a subconscious process, which is assumed to be ubiquitous to everyday thought and language. Conceptual blending is an emerging field of studies for computer scientists wishing to pursue researches in artificial intelligence.\n\nThe development of this theory began in 1993 and a representative early formulation is found in the online article Conceptual Integration and Formal Expression. Turner and Fauconnier cite Arthur Koestler's 1964 book \"The Act of Creation\" as an early forerunner of conceptual blending: Koestler had identified a common pattern in creative achievements in the arts, sciences and humor that he had termed \"bisociation of matrices.\" A newer version of blending theory, with somewhat different terminology, was presented in Turner and Fauconnier's 2002 book, \"The Way We Think\". Conceptual blending, in the Fauconnier and Turner formulation, is one of the theoretical tools used in George Lakoff and Rafael Núñez's \"Where Mathematics Comes From\", in which the authors assert that \"understanding mathematics requires the mastering of extensive networks of metaphorical blends.\"\n\nConceptual blending is closely related to frame-based theories, but goes beyond these primarily in that it is a theory of how to \"combine\" frames (or frame-like objects). An early computational model of a process called \"view application\", which is closely related to conceptual blending (which did not exist at the time), was implemented in the 1980s by Shrager at CMU and PARC, and applied in the domains of causal reasoning about complex devices and scientific reasoning. More recent computational accounts of blending have been developed in areas such as mathematics. Some later models are based upon Structure Mapping, which did not exist at the time of the earlier implementations.\n\nIn his book \"The Literary Mind\" (p. 93), conceptual blending theorist Mark Turner states that Conceptual blending is a fundamental instrument of the every day mind, used in our basic construal of all our realities, from the social to the scientific.\n\nInsights obtained from conceptual blends constitute the products of creative thinking, however conceptual blending theory is not itself a complete theory of creativity, inasmuch as it does not illuminate the issue of where the inputs to a blend originate. In other words, conceptual blending provides a terminology for describing creative products, but has little to say on the matter of inspiration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11120775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11120775", "title": "Coup de glotte", "text": "Coup de glotte\n\nCoup de glotte or 'shock of the glottis' is a term used in the theory of singing technique to describe a particular method of emitting or opening a note by an abrupt physical mechanism of the glottis (the space between the vocal folds). During the 19th century there was disagreement among teachers and performers as to whether the technique should be taught as a normal part of vocal method or not. The technique is still sometimes used to achieve particular effects, dramatic or ornamental, but is usually avoided in the teaching of fundamental vocal method. In English, it is often called a glottal attack.\n\nVocal sound is produced by a column of air passing from the lungs through the larynx while the vocal cords or ligaments are drawn together, leaving narrow spaces through which the air passes in short, rapid pulsations or vibrations. The discipline of training aims to remove all rigidity and strain in the throat while governing the maximum economy of the ratio of breath to tone produced, so that a relaxed and pure tone may float freely on the breath, supported by the trained and elastic pressure of the diaphragm upon the lungs.\n\nWhen singing a note, it is desirable that the release of breath and the attack of the tone should occur simultaneously and without artifice. When beginning on a vowel, with no added consonant to mask the start of the note, one can hear if there is any undesirable emission of breath or aspirate (Ha) \"before\" the production of tone. If the voice is correctly produced the union of tone and breath should be spontaneous, but if it is not, this fault will apply to every note produced even when the effect is masked by a consonant, and will form a basic (and vocally destructive) flaw in the vocal method.\n\nThe 'coup de glotte' was taught by the very famous teacher Manuel Garcia as the means of achieving this in normal singing method. Garcia had invented or implemented the laryngoscope, and sought to present scientific explanations for certain functions. He expressed it as follows:\n\n'The pupil... should draw in breath slowly, and then produce the sounds by a neat, resolute articulation of the glottis, upon the broad Italian vowel A. If this movement be properly executed, the sound will come out bright and round. Care however must be taken to pitch the sound at once on the note itself, and not to slur up to it, or feel for it. The pupil must also be warned against confounding the articulation or stroke of the glottis with the stroke of the chest, which latter resembles the act of coughing, or the effort made in expelling some obstruction from the throat...\nThe glottis is prepared for articulation by closing it, which causes a momentary accumulation of air below; and it is then opened by a sudden and vigorous stroke, similar to the action of the lips when strongly emphasising the letter P. Some masters recommend the use of [consonants, e.g. Pa, La] in order to acquire precision in striking notes; but in our opinion this plan... has the disadvantage of merely disguising the faulty articulation of the glottis, without possessing any power whatever of correcting it.' Garcia, \"A Compendious Treatise\", Part 1 Chap. 6, section on \"Articulation of the Glottis\".\nMuch of Garcia's 'method' remains extremely important as a plan for the correct development and production of the voice. But in this respect his 'scientific' approach misfired, and resulted in many students and singers attempting to reproduce the effect described by conscious muscular movement in the throat. This often had injurious results. An essential basis of expressive singing is that the breath and tone should be united without any conscious adjustment of the vocal mechanism, through teaching-methods which direct the singer's attention away from the muscular apparatus by which the sound is produced.\n\nThe technique (of 'some masters') referred to by Garcia of vocal exercising rapidly repeating plosive syllables such as 'Pa', transfers the momentary restraint of breath from the larynx or glottis to the lips, so that the natural diaphragmatic attack, without glottal manipulation, is learned. The use of soft vocalised syllables such as 'Ma' or 'Na', in rapid succession on single notes or in \"vocalises\", assist in directing the tone to its 'forward' focus of resonance as the tone remains continuously engaged while the lips of the mouth are intermittently closed and opened and the nasal passages remain unobstructed.\n\nThe criticism of the method is expressed, for instance, by Mme Tetrazzini: \nIn the result the \"attack\" is certainly very sharp and clean, but personally I cannot recommend this particular method of achieving that result, since the effect is anything but agreeable to the ear, and there is good reason for thinking that the practice, besides being unnecessary, is also injurious to a vocal organ... There should never be any strain or forcing of any kind, and on the same principle is the rule as to the amount of breath emitted, which should always be the smallest quantity possible which suffices to produce the tone required. (\"How to Sing\", 1923, Chap. 14, \"Vocal Cords\".) \nA very resounding condemnation of the \"coup de glotte\" as a singing technique was given by Victor Maurel, in a public lecture at the Lyceum Theatre in July 1892. The debate at that time was strong, and is reported lucidly in several phrases by George Bernard Shaw. The technique was then being advocated by the teacher Charles Lunn (who trained the baritone Frederic Austin) and to an even greater extent by Dr J.W. Bernhardt, in lectures and pamphlets or books on singing method. Shaw noticed the tendency of the technique to produce coarseness in the middle register, and attributed the fault to the Garcia method, and to the teaching of the Royal Academy of Music.\n\nIn 1892-93 Shaw and Lunn clashed publicly over the impact of the technique on such singers as Thérèse Tietjens, Mathilde Marchesi, Nellie Melba and Charles Santley. Lunn claimed that the attack on a vowel was impossible without the coup de glotte: Shaw used the example of the organ pipe, or of whistling, to assert the opposite. In the cases of Melba and Santley, at least, the living example left no doubt that this was not an integral part of their vocal method.\n\n"}
{"id": "5337736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5337736", "title": "Cult wine", "text": "Cult wine\n\nCult wines are those for which dedicated groups of committed enthusiasts will pay large sums of money. Such wines include, for example, Screaming Eagle from America and Penfolds Grange from Australia, among many others.\n\nCult wines are often seen as trophy wines to be collected or as investment wine to be held rather than consumed. Because price is often seen as an indicator of quality, sellers may adopt a premium pricing strategy where high prices are used to increase the desirability of such wines. This is true even for less expensive wines. For example, one vintner explained that \"on several occasions we have had difficulty selling wines at $75, but as soon as we raise the price to $125 they sell out and get put on allocation\".\n\nOther wines that fall under the title occasionally are from Burgundy, Bordeaux, Rhône and Italy.\n\nThese wines when scored highly by Robert Parker have had a tendency to increase in price resembling the Bordeaux investment market.\n\nCalifornia cult wines refers to any of the California wines \"typically but not exclusively Napa Valley Cabernets\" for which collectors, investors and enthusiastic consumers will pay high prices. The emergence of the cult movement coincided with trends in the 1990s towards riper fruit and wines with bigger and more concentrated flavors. The producers of such wines include Araujo Estates, Bryant Family Vineyard, Colgin Cellars, Dalla Valle Vineyards, Grace Family Vineyards, Harlan Estate, Schrader Cellars, Screaming Eagle and Sine Qua Non. All have scored 100 point scores from wine critics.\n\nThese wines are generally very expensive and are limited production (often fewer than 600 cases per year) and can command several times their \"release price\" in the secondary market.\n\nThe cult wines of Bordeaux tend to be left-bank cabernet-based wines that ranked highly in the Classification of 1855. Château Lafite Rothschild, Château Latour, Château Margaux, Château Haut-Brion, and Château Mouton Rothschild all qualify. Right-bank wines from Pétrus, Château Le Pin, Château Angélus, and Château Cheval Blanc are also highly sought-after. With the exception of Le Pin (which was first produced in 1979), all of these estates have a long history of fine wine production, going back in some cases before the 1700s. The production levels of these wines is generally higher than California cult wines: Haut-Brion, for example, produces 10-12,000 cases annually, Lafite produces just under 30,000, and Petrus produces 6,000. Le Pin would be one of the smallest-producing of the Bordeaux cult wines, at 600-700 cases a year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36913909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36913909", "title": "Decoding Communication", "text": "Decoding Communication\n\nDecoding Communication is a book on theories and modern practice of communication by N. Chandramouli published by TRA publishing in 2012. It elaborates on \"Communication Fundamentals\", \"Models of Communication\" and studies the \"Future through Communication\". It draws on several theories including concepts of meme from Richard Dawkins 1976 book \"The Selfish Gene\", the book builds on theories of Brand Trust, Brand Appeal, Perception and Propaganda. The books applies concepts of conservation to communication showing the importance of Sustainable Communication to the future of mankind.\nChandramouli is also the author of The Brand Trust Report, India's Most Attractive Brands and India's Most Reputed Brands.\n"}
{"id": "735661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=735661", "title": "Deterrence theory", "text": "Deterrence theory\n\nDeterrence theory gained increased prominence as a military strategy during the Cold War with regard to the use of nuclear weapons. It took on a unique connotation during this time as an inferior nuclear force, by virtue of its extreme destructive power, could deter a more powerful adversary, provided that this force could be protected against destruction by a surprise attack. \"Deterrence\" is a strategy intended to dissuade an adversary from taking an action not yet started, or to prevent them from doing something that another state desires. A credible nuclear deterrent, Bernard Brodie wrote in 1959, must be always at the ready, yet never used.\nIn Thomas Schelling's (1966) classic work on deterrence, the concept that military strategy can no longer be defined as the science of military victory is presented. Instead, it is argued that military strategy was now equally, if not more, the art of coercion, of intimidation and deterrence. Schelling says the capacity to harm another state is now used as a motivating factor for other states to avoid it and influence another state's behavior. To be coercive or deter another state, violence must be anticipated and avoidable by accommodation. It can therefore be summarized that the use of the power to hurt as bargaining power is the foundation of deterrence theory, and is most successful when it is held in reserve.\n\nIn 2004 Frank C. Zagare made the case that deterrence theory is logically inconsistent, not empirically accurate, and that it is deficient as a theory. In place of classical deterrence, rational choice scholars have argued for \"perfect deterrence\", which assumes that states may vary in their internal characteristics and especially in the credibility of their threats of retaliation.\n\nIn a January 2007 article in the \"Wall Street Journal\", veteran cold-war policy makers Henry Kissinger, Bill Perry, George Shultz, and Sam Nunn reversed their previous position and asserted that far from making the world safer, nuclear weapons had become a source of extreme risk. Their rationale and conclusion was not based on the old world with only a few nuclear players, but on the instability in many states possessing the technologies and the lack of wherewithal to properly maintain and upgrade existing weapons in many states:\nAccording to \"The Economist\", \"Senior European statesmen and women\" called for further action in 2010 in addressing problems of nuclear weapons proliferation. They said: \"Nuclear deterrence is a far less persuasive strategic response to a world of potential regional nuclear arms races and nuclear terrorism than it was to the cold war\".\n\nThe use of military threats as a means to deter international crises and war has been a central topic of international security research for at least 200 years. Research has predominantly focused on the theory of rational deterrence to analyze the conditions under which conventional deterrence is likely to succeed or fail. Alternative theories however have challenged the rational deterrence theory and have focused on organizational theory and cognitive psychology.\n\nThe concept of deterrence can be defined as the use of threats by one party to convince another party to refrain from initiating some course of action. A threat serves as a deterrent to the extent that it convinces its target not to carry out the intended action because of the costs and losses that target would incur. In international security, a policy of deterrence generally refers to threats of military retaliation directed by the leaders of one state to the leaders of another in an attempt to prevent the other state from resorting to the threat of use of military force in pursuit of its foreign policy goals.\n\nAs outlined by Huth, a policy of deterrence can fit into two broad categories being (i) preventing an armed attack against a state's own territory (known as direct deterrence); or (ii) preventing an armed attack against another state (known as extended deterrence). Situations of direct deterrence often occur when there is a territorial dispute between neighboring states in which major powers like the United States do not directly intervene. On the other hand, situations of extended deterrence often occur when a great power becomes involved. It is the latter that has generated the majority of interest in academic literature. Building on these two broad categories, Huth goes on to outline that deterrence policies may be implemented in response to a pressing short-term threat (known as immediate deterrence) or as strategy to prevent a military conflict or short term threat from arising (known as general deterrence).\n\nA successful deterrence policy must be considered in not only military terms, but also in political terms. In military terms, deterrence success refers to preventing state leaders from issuing military threats and actions that escalate peacetime diplomatic and military cooperation into a crisis or militarized confrontation which threatens armed conflict and possibly war. The prevention of crises of wars however is not the only aim of deterrence. In addition, defending states must be able to resist the political and military demands of a potential attacking nation. If armed conflict is avoided at the price of diplomatic concessions to the maximum demands of the potential attacking nation under the threat of war, then it cannot be claimed that deterrence has succeeded.\n\nFurthermore, as Jentleson \"et al.\" argue, two key sets of factors for successful deterrence are important being (i) a defending state strategy that firstly balances credible coercion and deft diplomacy consistent with the three criteria of proportionality, reciprocity, and coercive credibility, and secondly minimizes international and domestic constraints; and (ii) the extent of an attacking state's vulnerability as shaped by its domestic political and economic conditions. In broad terms, a state wishing to implement a strategy of deterrence is most likely to succeed if the costs of non-compliance it can impose on, and the benefits of compliance it can offer to, another state are greater than the benefits of noncompliance and the costs of compliance.\n\nDeterrence theory holds that nuclear weapons are intended to deter other states from attacking with their nuclear weapons, through the promise of retaliation and possibly mutually assured destruction (MAD). Nuclear deterrence can also be applied to an attack by conventional forces; for example, the doctrine of massive retaliation threatened to launch US nuclear weapons in response to Soviet attacks.\n\nA successful nuclear deterrent requires that a country preserve its ability to retaliate, either by responding before its own weapons are destroyed or by ensuring a second strike capability. A nuclear deterrent is sometimes composed of a nuclear triad, as in the case of the nuclear weapons owned by the United States, Russia, the People's Republic of China and India. Other countries, such as the United Kingdom and France, have only sea- and air-based nuclear weapons.\n\nJentleson \"et al. \"provide further detail in relation to these factors. Firstly, proportionality refers to the relationship between the defending state's scope and nature of the objectives being pursued, and the instruments available for use to pursue this. The more the defending state demands of another state, the higher that state's costs of compliance and the greater need for the defending state's strategy to increase the costs of noncompliance and the benefits of compliance. This is a challenge, as deterrence is, by definition, a strategy of limited means. George (1991) goes on to explain that deterrence may, but is not required to, go beyond threats to the actual use of military force; but if force is actually used, it must be limited and fall short of full-scale use or war otherwise it fails. The main source of disproportionality is an objective that goes beyond policy change to regime change. This has been seen in the cases of Libya, Iraq, and North Korea where defending states have sought to change the leadership of a state in addition to policy changes relating primarily to their nuclear weapons programs.\n\nSecondly, Jentleson \"et al.\" outline that reciprocity involves an explicit understanding of linkage between the defending state's carrots and the attacking state's concessions. The balance lies neither in offering too little too late or for too much in return, not offering too much too soon or for too little return.\n\nFinally, coercive credibility requires that, in addition to calculations about costs and benefits of cooperation, the defending state convincingly conveys to the attacking state that non-cooperation has consequences. Threats, uses of force, and other coercive instruments such as economic sanctions must be sufficiently credible to raise the attacking state's perceived costs of noncompliance. A defending state having a superior military capability or economic strength in itself is not enough to ensure credibility. Indeed, all three elements of a balanced deterrence strategy are more likely to be achieved if other major international actors like the United Nations or NATO are supportive and if opposition within the defending state's domestic politics is limited.\n\nThe other important consideration outlined by Jentleson \"et al.\" that must be taken into consideration is the domestic political and economic conditions within the attacking state affecting its vulnerability to deterrence policies, and the attacking state's ability to compensate unfavourable power balances. The first factor is whether internal political support and regime security are better served by defiance, or if there are domestic political gains to be made from improving relations with the defending state. The second factor is an economic calculation of the costs that military force, sanctions, and other coercive instruments can impose, and the benefits that trade and other economic incentives may carry. This in part is a function of the strength and flexibility of the attacking state's domestic economy and its capacity to absorb or counter the costs being imposed. The third factor is the role of elites and other key domestic political figures within the attacking state. To the extent these actors' interests are threatened with the defending state's demands, they act to prevent or block the defending state's demands.\n\nThe predominant approach to theorizing about deterrence has entailed the use of rational choice and game-theoretic models of decision making (see game theory). Deterrence theorists have consistently argued that deterrence success is more likely if a defending state's deterrent threat is credible to an attacking state. Huth outlines that a threat is considered credible if the defending state possesses both the military capabilities to inflict substantial costs on an attacking state in an armed conflict, and if the attacking state believes that the defending state is resolved to use its available military forces. Huth goes on to explain the four key factors for consideration under rational deterrence theory being (i) the military balance; (ii) signaling and bargaining power; (iii) reputations for resolve; and (iv) interests at stake.\n\nDeterrence is often directed against state leaders who have specific territorial goals that they seek to attain either by seizing disputed territory in a limited military attack or by occupying disputed territory after the decisive defeat of the adversary's armed forces. In either case, the strategic orientation of potential attacking states is generally short term and driven by concerns about military cost and effectiveness. For successful deterrence, defending states need the military capacity to respond quickly and in strength to a range of contingencies. Where deterrence often fails is when either a defending state or an attacking state under or overestimate the others' ability to undertake a particular course of action.\n\nThe central problem for a state that seeks to communicate a credible deterrent threat through diplomatic or military actions is that all defending states have an incentive to act as if they are determined to resist an attack, in the hope that the attacking state will back away from military conflict with a seemingly resolved adversary. If all defending states have such incentives, then potential attacking states may discount statements made by defending states along with any movement of military forces as merely bluffs. In this regards, rational deterrence theorists have argued that costly signals are required to communicate the credibility of a defending state's resolve. Costly signals are those actions and statements that clearly increase the risk of a military conflict and also increase the costs of backing down from a deterrent threat. States that are bluffing are unwilling to cross a certain threshold of threat and military action for fear of committing themselves to an armed conflict.\n\nThere are three different arguments that have been developed in relation to the role of reputations in influencing deterrence outcomes. The first argument focuses on a defending state's past behaviour in international disputes and crises, which creates strong beliefs in a potential attacking state about the defending state's expected behaviour in future conflicts. The credibilities of a defending state's policies are arguably linked over time, and reputations for resolve have a powerful causal impact on an attacking state's decision whether to challenge either general or immediate deterrence. The second approach argues that reputations have a limited impact on deterrence outcomes because the credibility of deterrence is heavily determined by the specific configuration of military capabilities, interests at stake, and political constraints faced by a defending state in a given situation of attempted deterrence. The argument of this school of thought is that potential attacking states are not likely to draw strong inferences about a defending states resolve from prior conflicts because potential attacking states do not believe that a defending state's past behaviour is a reliable predictor of future behaviour. The third approach is a middle ground between the first two approaches. It argues that potential attacking states are likely to draw reputational inferences about resolve from the past behaviour of defending states only under certain conditions. The insight is the expectation that decision makers will use only certain types of information when drawing inferences about reputations, and an attacking state updates and revises its beliefs when the unanticipated behaviour of a defending state cannot be explained by case-specific variables.\nAn example both shows that the problem extends to the perception of the third parties as well as main adversaries and underlies the way in which attempts at deterrence can not only fail but backfire if the assumptions about the others' perceptions are incorrect.\n\nAlthough costly signaling and bargaining power are more well established arguments in rational deterrence theory, the interests of defending states are not as well known, and attacking states may look beyond the short term bargaining tactics of a defending state and seek to determine what interests are at stake for the defending state that would justify the risks of a military conflict. The argument here is that defending states that have greater interests at stake in a dispute are more resolved to use force and be more willing to endure military losses to secure those interests. Even less well established arguments are the specific interests that are more salient to state leaders such as military interests versus economic interests.\n\nFurthermore, Huth argues that both supporters and critics of rational deterrence theory agree that an unfavourable assessment of the domestic and international status quo by state leaders can undermine or severely test the success of deterrence. In a rational choice approach, if the expected utility of not using force is reduced by a declining status quo position, then deterrence failure is more likely, since the alternative option of using force becomes relatively more attractive.\n\nIn 1966 Schelling is prescriptive in outlining the impact of the development of nuclear weapons in the analysis of military power and deterrence. In his 1966 analysis, before the widespread use of assured second strike capability, or immediate reprisal, in the form of SSBN submarines, Schelling argues that nuclear weapons give nations the potential to not only destroy their enemies but humanity itself without drawing immediate reprisal because of the lack of a conceivable defense system and the speed with which nuclear weapons can be deployed. A nation's credible threat of such severe damage empowers their deterrence policies and fuels political coercion and military deadlock, which in turn can produce proxy warfare.\n\nHistorical analysis of nuclear weapons deterrent capabilities has led modern researchers to the concept of the stability-instability paradox, whereby nuclear weapons confer large scale stability between nuclear weapon states, as in over 60 years none have engaged in large direct warfare due primarily to nuclear weapons deterrence capabilities, but instead are forced into pursuing political aims by military means in the form of comparatively smaller scale acts of instability, such as proxy wars and minor conflicts.\n\nThe US policy of deterrence during the Cold War underwent significant variations. The early stages of the Cold War were generally characterized by containment, an aggressive stance on behalf of the US especially on developing nations under its sphere of influence. This period was characterized by numerous proxy wars throughout most of the globe, particularly Africa, Asia, Central America, and South America. A notable such conflict was the Korean War. In contrast to general opinion, George F. Kennan, who is taken to be the founder of this ideology in his Long Telegram, asserted that his ideas had been misinterpreted and that he had never advocated military intervention, merely economic support.\n\nWith the from Vietnam, the normalization of U.S. relations with China, and the Sino-Soviet Split, the policy of Containment was abandoned and a new policy of détente was established, whereby peaceful coexistence was sought between the United States and the Soviet Union. Although all factors listed above contributed to this shift, the most important factor was probably the rough parity achieved in stockpiling nuclear weapons with the clear capability of Mutual Assured Destruction (MAD). Therefore, the period of détente was characterized by a general reduction in the tension between the Soviet Union and the United States and a thawing of the Cold War, lasting from the late 1960s until the start of the 1980s. The doctrine of mutual nuclear deterrence characterized relations between the United States and the Soviet Union during this period, and present relations with Russia.\n\nA third shift occurred with President Ronald Reagan's arms build-up during the 1980s. Reagan attempted to justify this policy in part due to concerns of growing Soviet influence in Latin America and the new republic of Iran, established after the Iranian Revolution of 1979. Similar to the old policy of containment, the United States funded several proxy wars, including support for Saddam Hussein of Iraq during the Iran–Iraq War, support for the mujahideen in Afghanistan, who were fighting for independence from the Soviet Union, and several anti-communist movements in Latin America such as the overthrow of the Sandinista government in Nicaragua. The funding of the Contras in Nicaragua led to the Iran-Contra Affair, while overt support led to a ruling from the International Court of Justice against the United States in Nicaragua v. United States.\n\nWhile the army was dealing with the breakup of the Soviet Union and the spread of nuclear technology to other nations beyond the United States and Russia, the concept of deterrence took on a broader multinational dimension. The U.S. policy on post–Cold War deterrence was outlined in 1995 in a document called \"Essentials of Post–Cold War Deterrence\". This document explains that while relations with Russia continue to follow the traditional characteristics of Mutual Nuclear Deterrence, due to both nations continuing MAD, U.S. policy of deterrence towards nations with minor nuclear capabilities should ensure through threats of immense retaliation (or even preemptive action) that they do not threaten the United States, its interests, or allies. The document explains that such threats must also be used to ensure that nations without nuclear technology refrain from developing nuclear weapons and that a universal ban precludes any nation from maintaining chemical or biological weapons. The current tensions with Iran and North Korea over their nuclear programs are due in part to the continuation of this policy of deterrence.\n\nDeterrence theory is criticized for its assumptions about opponent rationales.\n\nFirst, it is argued that suicidal or psychotic opponents may not be deterred by either forms of deterrence. Second, if two enemy states both possess nuclear weapons, Country \"X\" may try to gain a first-strike advantage by suddenly launching weapons at Country \"Y\", with a view to destroying its enemy's nuclear launch silos thereby rendering Country \"Y\" incapable of a response. Third, diplomatic misunderstandings and/or opposing political ideologies may lead to escalating mutual perceptions of threat, and a subsequent arms race that elevates the risk of actual war, a scenario illustrated in the movies \"WarGames\" (1983) and \"Dr. Strangelove\" (1964). An arms race is inefficient in its optimal output, as all countries involved expend resources on armaments that would not have been created if the others had not expended resources, a form of positive feedback. Fourth, escalation of perceived threat can make it easier for certain measures to be inflicted on a population by its government, such as restrictions on civil liberties, the creation of a military–industrial complex, and military expenditures resulting in higher taxes and increasing budget deficits.\n\nIn recent years, many mainstream politicians, academic analysts, and retired military leaders have also criticised deterrence and advocated nuclear disarmament. Sam Nunn, William Perry, Henry Kissinger, and George Shultz have all called upon governments to embrace the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons, and in three \"Wall Street Journal\" opeds proposed an ambitious program of urgent steps to that end. The four have created the Nuclear Security Project to advance this agenda. Organisations such as Global Zero, an international non-partisan group of 300 world leaders dedicated to achieving nuclear disarmament, have also been established. In 2010, the four were featured in a documentary film entitled \"Nuclear Tipping Point\". The film is a visual and historical depiction of the ideas laid forth in the Wall Street Journal op-eds and reinforces their commitment to a world without nuclear weapons and the steps that can be taken to reach that goal.\n\nFormer Secretary Kissinger puts the new danger, which cannot be addressed by deterrence, this way: \"The classical notion of deterrence was that there was some consequences before which aggressors and evildoers would recoil. In a world of suicide bombers, that calculation doesn't operate in any comparable way.\" Shultz has said, \"If you think of the people who are doing suicide attacks, and people like that get a nuclear weapon, they are almost by definition not deterrable\".\n\nAs opposed to the extreme mutually assured destruction form of deterrence, the concept of minimum deterrence in which a state possesses no more nuclear weapons than is necessary to deter an adversary from attacking is presently the most common form of deterrence practiced by nuclear weapon states, such as China, India, Pakistan, Britain, and France. Pursuing minimal deterrence during arms negotiations between United States and Russia allows each state to make nuclear stockpile reductions without the state becoming vulnerable, however it has been noted that there comes a point where further reductions may be undesirable, once minimal deterrence is reached, as further reductions beyond this point increase a state's vulnerability and provide an incentive for an adversary to secretly expand its nuclear arsenal.\n\n\"Senior European statesmen and women\" called for further action in addressing problems of nuclear weapons proliferation in 2010. They said: \"Nuclear deterrence is a far less persuasive strategic response to a world of potential regional nuclear arms races and nuclear terrorism than it was to the cold war\".\n\nPaul Virilio has criticized nuclear deterrence as anachronistic in the age of information warfare since disinformation and kompromat are the current threats to suggestible populations. The wound inflicted on unsuspecting populations he calls an \"integral accident\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38581562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38581562", "title": "Duau language", "text": "Duau language\n\nDuau is a dialectically diverse Austronesian language spoken in the D'Entrecasteaux Islands of Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "496416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496416", "title": "Elamite language", "text": "Elamite language\n\nElamite is an extinct language that was spoken by the ancient Elamites. It was used in present-day southwestern Iran from 2600 BC to 330 BC. The last written records in Elamite appear around the conquest of the Achaemenid Empire by Alexander the Great. Elamite is generally thought to have no demonstrable relatives and is usually considered a language isolate. The lack of established relatives makes its interpretation difficult.\n\nElamite cuneiform, adapted from Akkadian cuneiform, was used from c. 2500 to 331 BC. Elamite cuneiform was largely a syllabary of some 130 glyphs at any one time and retained only a few logograms from Akkadian but, over time, the number of logograms increased.\n\nThe complete corpus of Elamite cuneiform consists of c. 20 thousand tablets and fragments. The majority belong to the Achaemenid era, and contain primarily economic records.\n\nTwo earlier scripts of the area remain undeciphered but plausibly have encoded Elamite:\n\nElamite is an agglutinative language, and its grammar was characterized by a well-developed and pervasive nominal class system. Animate nouns have separate markers for first, second\nand third person, a rather unusual feature. It can be said to display a kind of Suffixaufnahme in that the nominal class markers of the head are also attached to any modifiers, including adjectives, noun adjuncts, possessor nouns and even entire clauses.\n\nThe history of Elamite is periodised as follows:\n\n\nMiddle Elamite is considered the “classical” period of Elamite, but the best attested variety is Achaemenid Elamite, which was widely used by the Achaemenid Persian state for official inscriptions as well as administrative records and displays significant Old Persian influence. Documents from the Old Elamite and early Neo-Elamite stages are rather scarce.\n\nNeo-Elamite can be regarded as a transition between Middle and Achaemenid Elamite, with respect to language structure.\n\nBecause of the limitations of the language's scripts, its phonology is not well understood.\n\nIts consonants included at least stops /p/, /t/ and /k/, sibilants /s/, /ʃ/ and /z/ (with an uncertain pronunciation), nasals /m/ and /n/, liquids /l/ and /r/ and fricative /h/, which was lost in late Neo-Elamite. Some peculiarities of the spelling have been interpreted as suggesting that there was a contrast between two series of stops (/p/, /t/, /k/ as opposed to /b/, /d/, /g/), but in general, such a distinction was not consistently indicated by written Elamite. \n\nElamite had at least the vowels /a/, /i/, and /u/ and may also have had /e/, which was not generally expressed unambiguously.\n\nRoots were generally CV, (C)VC, (C)VCV or, more rarely, CVCCV (the first C was usually a nasal).\n\nElamite is agglutinative but with fewer morphemes per word than, for example, Sumerian or Hurrian and Urartian and it uses mostly suffixing.\n\nThe Elamite nominal system is thoroughly pervaded by a noun class distinction, which combines a gender distinction between animate and inanimate with a personal class distinction, corresponding to the three persons of verbal inflection (first, second, third, plural). <br>\nThe suffixes are as follows: <br>\nAnimate: <br>\nInanimate: <br>\n\nThe animate third-person suffix \"-r\" can serve as a nominalizing suffix and indicate nomen agentis or just members of a class. The inanimate third-person singular suffix \"-me\" forms abstracts: \"sunki-k\" “a king (first person)” i.e. “I, a king”, \"sunki-r\" “a king (third person)”, \"nap-Ø\" or \"nap-ir\" “a god (third person)”, \"sunki-p\" “kings”, \"nap-ip\" “gods”, \"sunki-me\" “kingdom, kingship”, \"hal-Ø\" “town, land”, \"siya-n\" “temple”, \"hala-t\" “mud brick”.\n\nModifiers follow their (nominal) heads. In noun phrases and pronoun phrases, the suffixes referring to the head are appended to the modifier, regardless of whether the modifier is another noun (such as a possessor) or an adjective. Sometimes the suffix is preserved on the head as well:\n\nThis system, in which the noun class suffixes function as derivational morphemes as well as agreement markers and indirectly as subordinating morphemes, is best seen in Middle Elamite. It was, to a great extent, broken down in Achaemenid Elamite, where possession and, sometimes, attributive relationships are uniformly expressed with the “genitive case” suffix \"-na\" appended to the modifier: e.g. \"šak X-na\" “son of X”. The suffix \"-na\", which probably originated from the inanimate agreement suffix \"-n\" followed by the nominalizing particle \"-a\" (see below), appeared already in Neo-Elamite.\n\nThe personal pronouns distinguish nominative and accusative case forms. They are as follows:\n\nIn general, no special possessive pronouns are needed in view of the construction with the noun class suffixes. Nevertheless, a set of separate third-person animate possessives \"-e\" (sing.) / \"appi-e\" (plur.) is occasionally used already in Middle Elamite: \"puhu-e\" “her children”, \"hiš-api-e\" “their name”. The relative pronouns are \"akka\" “who” and \"appa\" “what, which”.\n\nThe verb base can be simple (\"ta-\" “put”) or “reduplicated” (\"beti\" > \"bepti\" “rebel”). The pure verb base can function as a verbal noun, or “infinitive”.\n\nThe verb distinguishes three forms functioning as finite verbs, known as “conjugations”. Conjugation I is the only one with special endings characteristic of finite verbs as such, as shown below. Its use is mostly associated with active voice, transitivity (or verbs of motion), neutral aspect and past tense meaning. Conjugations II and III can be regarded as periphrastic constructions with participles; they are formed by the addition of the nominal personal class suffixes to a passive perfective participle in \"-k\" and to an active imperfective participle in \"-n\", respectively. Accordingly, conjugation II expresses a perfective aspect, hence usually past tense, and an intransitive or passive voice, whereas conjugation III expresses an imperfective non-past action.\n\nThe Middle Elamite conjugation I is formed with the following suffixes:\n\nExamples: \"kulla-h\" ”I prayed”, \"hap-t\" ”you heard”, \"hutta-š\" “he did”, \"kulla-hu\" “we prayed”, \"hutta-h-t\" “you (plur.) did”, \"hutta-h-š\" “they did”.\n\nIn Achaemenid Elamite, the loss of the /h/ reduces the transparency of the Conjugation I endings and leads to the merger of the singular and plural except in the first person; in addition, the first-person plural changes from \"-hu\" to \"-ut\".\n\nThe participles can be exemplified as follows: perfective participle \"hutta-k\" “done”, \"kulla-k\" “something prayed”, i.e. “a prayer”; imperfective participle \"hutta-n\" “doing” or “who will do”, also serving as a non-past infinitive. The corresponding conjugation is, for the perfective, first person singular \"hutta-k-k\", second person singular \"hutta-k-t\", third person singular \"hutta-k-r\", third person plural \"hutta-k-p\"; and for the imperfective, 1st person singular \"hutta-n-k\", 2nd person singular \"hutta-n-t\", 3rd person singular \"hutta-n-r\", 3rd person plural \"hutta-n-p\".\n\nIn Achaemenid Elamite, the Conjugation 2 endings are somewhat changed: 1st person singular \"hutta-k-ut\", 2nd person singular \"hutta-k-t\", 3rd person singular \"hutta-k\" (hardly ever attested in predicative use), 3rd person plural \"hutta-p\".\n\nThere is also a periphrastic construction with an auxiliary verb \"ma-\" following either Conjugation II and III stems (i.e. the perfective and imperfective participles), or \"nomina agentis\" in \"-r\", or a verb base directly. In Achaemenid Elamite, only the third option exists. There is no consensus on the exact meaning of the periphrastic forms with \"ma-\", but durative, intensive or volitional interpretations have been suggested.\n\nThe optative is expressed by the addition of the suffix \"-ni\" to Conjugations I and II. The imperative is identical to the second person of Conjugation I in Middle Elamite. In Achaemenid Elamite, it is the third person that coincides with the imperative. The prohibitative is formed by the particle \"ani/ani\" preceding Conjugation III.\n\nVerbal forms can be converted into the heads of subordinate clauses through the addition of the suffix \"-a\", much as in Sumerian: \"siyan in-me kuši-hš(i)-me-a\" “the temple which they did not build”. \"-ti\"/\"-ta\" can be suffixed to verbs, chiefly of conjugation I, expressing possibly a meaning of anteriority (perfect and pluperfect tense).\n\nThe negative particle is \"in-\"; it takes nominal class suffixes that agree with the subject of attention (which may or may not coincide with the grammatical subject): first-person singular \"in-ki\", third-person singular animate \"in-ri\", third-person singular inanimate \"in-ni\"/\"in-me\". In Achaemenid Elamite, the inanimate form \"in-ni\" has been generalized to all persons, and concord has been lost.\n\nNominal heads are normally followed by their modifiers, but there are occasional inversions. Word order is subject–object–verb (SOV), with indirect objects preceding direct objects, but it becomes more flexible in Achaemenid Elamite. There are often resumptive pronouns before the verb – often long sequences, especially in Middle Elamite (\"ap u in duni-h\" \"to-them I it gave\").\n\nThe language uses postpositions such as \"-ma\" \"in\" and \"-na\" \"of\", but spatial and temporal relationships are generally expressed in Middle Elamite by means of \"directional words\" originating as nouns or verbs. They can precede or follow the governed nouns and tend to exhibit noun class agreement with whatever noun is described by the prepositional phrase: \"i-r pat-r u-r ta-t-ni\" \"may you place him under me\", lit. \"him inferior of-me place-you-may\". In Achaemenid Elamite, postpositions become more common and partly displace that type of construction.\n\nA common conjunction is \"ak\" \"and, or\". Achaemenid Elamite also uses a number of subordinating conjunctions such as \"anka\" \"if, when\" and \"sap\" \"as, when\". Subordinate clauses usually precede the verb of the main clause. In Middle Elamite, the most common way to construct a relative clause is to attach a nominal class suffix to the clause-final verb, optionally followed by the relativizing suffix \"-a\": thus, \"lika-me i-r hani-š-r(i)\" \"whose reign he loves\", or optionally \"lika-me i-r hani-š-r-a\". The alternative construction by means of the relative pronouns \"akka\" \"who\" and \"appa\" \"which\" is uncommon in Middle Elamite, but gradually becomes dominant at the expense of the nominal class suffix construction in Achaemenid Elamite.\n\nMiddle Elamite (Šutruk-Nahhunte I, 1200–1160 BC; EKI 18, IRS 33):\n\nTransliteration:\n\n(1) ú šu-ut-ru-uk-d.nah-hu-un-te ša-ak hal-lu-du-uš-in-šu-ši-\n\n(2) -na-ak-gi-ik su-un-ki-ik an-za-an šu-šu-un-ka e-ri-en-\n\n(3) -tu-um ti-pu-uh a-ak hi-ya-an in-šu-ši-na-ak na-pír\n\n(4) ú-ri-me a-ha-an ha-li-ih-ma hu-ut-tak ha-li-ku-me\n\n(5) in-šu-ši-na-ak na-pír ú-ri in li-na te-la-ak-ni\n\nTranscription:\n\n\"U Šutruk-Nahhunte, šak Halluduš-Inšušinak-ik, sunki-k Anzan Šušun-ka. Erientum tipu-h ak hiya-n Inšušinak nap-ir u-ri-me ahan hali-h-ma. hutta-k hali-k u-me Inšušinak nap-ir u-ri in lina tela-k-ni\".\n\nTranslation:\n\nI, Šutruk-Nahhunte, son of Halluduš-Inšušinak, king of Anshan and Susa. I moulded bricks and made the throne hall of my god Inšušinak with them. May my work come as an offering to my god Inšušinak.\n\nAchaemenid Elamite (Xerxes I, 486–465 BC; XPa):\n\nTransliteration:\n\n(01) [sect 01] na-ap ir-šá-ir-ra u-ra-mas-da ak-ka mu-ru-un <br>\n(02) hi pè-iš-tá ak-ka ki-ik hu-ip-pè pè-iš-tá ak-ka <br>\n(03) LÚ.MEŠ-ir-ra ir pè-iš-tá ak-ka ši-ia-ti-iš pè-iš-tá <br>\n(04) LÚ.MEŠ-ra-na ak-ka ik-še-ir-iš-šá EŠŠANA ir hu-ut-taš- <br>\n(05) tá ki-ir ir-še-ki-ip-in-na EŠŠANA ki-ir ir-še-ki-ip-<br>\n(06) in-na pír-ra-ma-ut-tá-ra-na-um\n\nTranscription:\n\n\"Nap irša-rra Uramasda, akka muru-n hi pe-š-ta, akka kik hupe pe-š-ta, akka ruh(?)-irra ir pe-š-ta, akka šiatiš pe-š-ta ruh(?)-ra-na, akka Ikšerša sunki(?) ir hutta-š-ta kir iršeki-pi-na sunki(?), kir iršeki-pi-na piramataram.\"\n\nTranslation:\n\nA great god is Ahura Mazda, who created this earth, who created that sky, who created man, who created happiness of man, who made Xerxes king, one king of many, one lord of many.\n\nElamite is regarded by the vast majority of linguists as a language isolate, as it has no demonstrable relationship to the neighbouring Semitic languages, Indo-European languages, or to Sumerian, despite having adopted the Sumerian-Akkadian cuneiform script. An Elamo-Dravidian family connecting Elamite with the Dravidian languages of India was suggested by Igor M. Diakonoff and later defended by David McAlpin. Václav Blažek proposed a relation with the Semitic languages, and George Starostin published a lexicostatistic analysis finding Elamite to be approximately equidistant from Nostratic and Semitic, but these ideas have not been accepted by mainstream historical linguists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10274333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10274333", "title": "H. M. Nayak", "text": "H. M. Nayak\n\nHarogadde Manappa Nayak (Kannada: ಹಾ.ಮಾ.ನಾಯಕ್, \"Ha Ma Nayak\") (1931 - 10 November 2000) was an academician, writer and folklorist. \n\nHe was born in the village Harogadde, Shimoga district in Karnataka. He served as a lecturer, and then professor, at the Mysore University, before being appointed the Director of the Kuvempu Institute of Kannada Studies at the university.\nAppointed the Vice-chancellor of Gulbarga University on 2 November 1984, he served until 15 February 1987, when he resigned citing moral responsibility for examination malpractices. \n\nH. M. Nayak died, following a heart attack, in Mysore. \nin the year 2000 at the age of 69.\n\nHe won the Central Sahitya Akademi Award in 1989, for the work Samprati,collection of his column writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "4526280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4526280", "title": "Hae Jong Kim", "text": "Hae Jong Kim\n\nHae Jong Kim (; born 1935) was a Korean-American bishop of the United Methodist Church, elected in 1992, who resigned as a bishop in 2005.\n\nKim was born in Seoul, Korea in 1935. During the Korean War he became a Christian. Then, while working for a United States Marine Corps Chaplain as an interpreter, translating sermons before Korean audiences, he decided to enter into ministry. He was 17 years old.\n\nKim is married to Wha-Sei P. Kim (박화세). They have three children: Eugene (김유진), Eusun (김유선), and Eumi (김유미).\n\nKim went to the Methodist Theological Seminary in Seoul, and upon completing study there came to the United States to pursue further education. He graduated in 1964 with an M.Div. degree from the Methodist Theological School in Ohio. He continued graduate study at Drew Theological Seminary.\n\nHe also began pastoral ministry in 1964, serving various types of churches in the Northern New Jersey Annual Conference of the Methodist Church, including a Korean church he founded. Kim was instrumental in developing Korean ministry strategies in the conference and helped develop some 15 Korean American U.M. churches in New Jersey.\n\nDuring the next several years, as Korean immigration to the U.S. began to swell, Kim worked for the Annual Conference and for U.M. agencies as a \"bridge person,\" helping to bring understanding about the Korean community. He has been an advocate for ethnic minority causes, having strong links to the Korean community and to the Methodist Church of Korea.\n\nKim went on to serve as the Chairperson of the Conference Council on Ministries and has provided leadership at the annual and general church levels. Prior to his election to the Episcopacy, he was a delegate to General Conferences (1980–92), as well as a Director of the U.M. General Board of Global Ministries (1980–99). During these years he had an important role in developing national and jurisdictional mission structures to facilitate Korean American ministries and congregations. In the Korean community he was recognized as a leader by his election as President of the National Association of Korean American U.M. Churches, and President of the Council of Korean Churches of Greater New York. e worked with the Northeastern Jurisdiction Multi-Ethnic Center: on the Charter Committee and then as a member of the Board of Directors, serving as President 1988–92.\n\nKim earned the D.Min. degree from Drew Theological Seminary in 1984. That same year he was appointed a District Superintendent in the Northern New Jersey Conference, the first Korean American to hold this position in the entire United Methodist Church. Following this, he was appointed Pastor of a church in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, from which he was elected a Bishop in July 1992. He served the New York West Episcopal Area from 1992 to 2000, and in 2000 became bishop of the Pittsburgh Area. He retired in 2004.\n\nIn January 2005, a disciplinary complaint was brought against Bishop Kim. The details of the charges were handled in accordance with confidentiality requirements of the \"United Methodist Book of Discipline\" and were not disclosed. However, on August 30, 2005, Bishop Peter D. Weaver, then president of the United Methodist Council of Bishops, announced the resignation of Bishop Kim as a part of the resolution process. The resignation was to be effective September 1, 2005. Though he resigned from the United Methodist episcopacy, he retained his clergy credentials.\n\nIn July 2008 he became the pastor of a very small United Methodist church.\nBishop Kim likes to write poems. He has translated many Korean hymns into English, two of which are in the United Methdodist Hymnal: \"Lonely the Boat\" and \"\"Mountains are All Aglow\". He has written other hymns in English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24667351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24667351", "title": "Hard Spell Abbey", "text": "Hard Spell Abbey\n\nHard Spell Abbey was a five-part spelling bee game show produced for CBBC. It was shot entirely on location in Suffolk during 2004. The series was designed to accompany \"Hard Spell\", a family spelling competition for BBC One. Each episode featured games as well as some reality-based filming. Short comedy cameos from spelling celebrities were included in a highly popular strand named \"Spellebrity Squares\". In this rehash of a popular classic, an impressive roll call of celebrities was asked to spell live on camera, including Dermot O'Leary, Dick 'n' Dom, Tracy Beaker, Jonathan Ross, and Dermot Murnaghan.\n\nIn the show Trevor Hickson played Brother Brendan, a slightly mad but likeable monk who lived at the abbey and wanted to be involved with every game. Jaz Ampaw-Farr was the spelling expert who coached the contestants, aided by Brother Brendan to spelling success.\n"}
{"id": "40469895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40469895", "title": "Hashir Mohamed", "text": "Hashir Mohamed\n\nHashir Mohamed (Kerala, India) is a screen writer in Malayalam cinema.\n\nHashir Mohamed was born in Kottakkal, kerala, and was graduated from College of Engineering, Trivandrum . His family name is Valiyakandathil.\n\nAfter graduation, before joining films Hashir Mohamed worked with IT companies like HCL (Bangalore), Accenture (Chennai), Nokia (Helsinki), and Deutsche Bank (Singapore)\n\nHis first film as a writer, Aami in Anchu Sundharikal directed by Anwar Rasheed was released in 2013- June, and his second film as writer Neelakasham Pachakadal Chuvanna Bhoomi (NPCB) directed by Sameer Thahir was released in 2013- August. Many incidents in the film NPCB were reportedly based on real life incidents. Both were commercially successful and critically acclaimed.\n\nOn 28 February 2014, Maradu police arrested Hashir Mohamed from his apartment, on charges of assault on a woman with sexual intent.\n\nWhen the lady came down from the 10th storey flat to get baby food from the 4th story flat of her sister, Hashir Mohamed came down from the flat above in the nude and assaulted her outside the flat. When she cried out for help, neighbours came out and apprehended him. He was later handed over to the police. The police said that he was in the nude and under the influence of drugs during the act. In the subsequent search, cops recovered ganja from his flat. In the bail petition, Hashir denied the charges.\n\nHe was awarded a sentence of three and half years imprisonment and 40,000 rupees fine by the Ernakulam additional sessions court for this crime.\n"}
{"id": "30990371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30990371", "title": "Hotel amenity", "text": "Hotel amenity\n\nA hotel amenity is something of a premium nature provided in addition to the room and its basics when renting a room at a hotel, motel, or other place of lodging. The amenities provided in each hotel vary. In some places of lodging, certain amenities may be standard with all rooms. In others, they may be optional for an additional cost.\n\nSome places of lodging offer kitchen facilities to enable guests to cook and/or store food. In some hotels, this may be in the form of a kitchenette, which may include a full-size or half-size refrigerator, an oven, a stove, a sink, and possibly some cabinets, although these are more common in extended stay hotels.\n\nOther places may include just a half-sized refrigerator, a microwave oven, and/or a Coffeemaker.\n\nHotels that offer no kitchen facilities in guest rooms sometimes provide them in the lobby for all guests to use.\n\nThough not all have them, a television set is a standard item in most hotel rooms. In the past, coin-operated pay TVs existed. Currently, standard TV channels are free to watch, but some lodging facilities charge extra for cable or satellite TV services that are offered.\n\nWith the advent of portable video through mobile and tablet devices, hotels have had a harder time generating revenue with their in room televisions.\nMost places of lodging currently offer internet access in some form. Most common is wi-fi, which can be used by guests who bring their own computers in their rooms. In most hotels, this is free, though some charge a fee.\n\nSome hotels offer hard-wired internet service requiring the use of a cable for the hook-up. \n\nThey may also provide computers in the lobby for all guests to use, often along with printer services. More rarely, computers are provided in each guest room. Recently, more hotels are offering in-room tablet computers for guests to use.\n\nMany personal items are provided complimentary for use by guests. These may include irons and ironing boards, hair dryers, soap, shampoo, mouthwash, or shower caps. A current trend in personal items in the United States is to focus on American-made toiletries, such as those made by William Roam, given a perception by guests that foreign-made amenities are not as desirable. For example, in 2007 hotel amenity provider Gilchrist & Soames, conducted a voluntary worldwide recall, in cooperation with the FDA of its 18-milliliter or 0.65-ounce tubes of complementary toothpaste with the company name on it. Gilchrist & Soames immediately quarantined its toothpaste, made in China, after the FDA issued its warning that the toothpaste possibly contained diethylene glycol. The FDA stated at the time that it was not aware of any U.S. reports of any harmful effects from the toothpaste containing diethylene glycol. Not all items are provided by all hotels; for example, some hotels do not provide toothpaste.\n\nIn some hotels, a hair dryer is offered for guests use.\n\nHotels generally provide towels to guests for their use. \n\nOne concern with the provision of towels is theft. Towel theft has proven costly to hotels, though hotels have been reported to do little to combat the problem. In 2003, Holiday Inn offered amnesty to those who returned stolen towels.\n\nHotels have begun to outfit their towels with RFID technology to reduce the frequency of theft.\n\nVarious forms of dining are offered in various places of lodging. Some hotels offer a continental breakfast that is often complimentary to guests. Items often served include cereal, pastries, waffles, sausage, fruits, and beverages.\n\nSome hotels have on-site restaurants. In most cases, the meals must be paid for. In some hotels, room service is available to guests.\n\nSome resorts are all inclusive, allowing guests access to food at little or no charge at all times of day throughout their visits.\n\nVending machines are provided at many hotels and motels. These machines usually sell soft drinks, snacks, and other items commonly sold in vending machines.\n\nIce dispensers are also standard. While in some hotels, the ice may be complimentary, there may be a fee to obtain ice in others.\n\nSome hotels have fitness centers allowing guests to work out during their visits. A recent trend at some upscale properties has seen some of the exercise and fitness programs held outdoors.\nMany resorts offer various recreational activities, such as golf, tennis, and other popular sports.\n\nSome hotels offer swimming pools to their guests. Outdoor pools may be open seasonally in temperate climates. Indoor pools can be open year round in any climate.\n\nIt is customary to offer free self-parking, though this is not always the case, especially if the parking is in a garage or parkade, while some hotels offer valet services to their guests.\n"}
{"id": "690543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690543", "title": "Kapampangan language", "text": "Kapampangan language\n\nKapampangan, Pampango, or the Pampangan language is a major Philippine language. It is spoken in the province of Pampanga, most of Tarlac and Bataan. Kapampangan is also understood in some municipalities of Bulacan and Nueva Ecija and by the Aeta people of Zambales. The language is known honorifically as \"Amánung Sísuan\" (\"breastfed, or nurtured, language\").\n\nKapampangan is one of the Central Luzon languages of the Austronesian language family. Its closest relatives are the Sambalic languages of Zambales province and the Bolinao language spoken in the towns of Bolinao and Anda in Pangasinan. These languages share the same reflex of the proto-Austronesian consonant *R.\n\n\"Kapampangan\" is derived from the root word \"pampáng\" (\"riverbank\"). The language was historically spoken in the Kingdom of Tondo, ruled by the Lakans.\n\nA number of Kapampangan dictionaries and grammar books were written during the Spanish colonial period. Diego Bergaño wrote two 18th-century books about the language: \"Arte de la lengua Pampanga\" (first published in 1729) and \"Vocabulario de la lengua Pampanga\" (first published in 1732). Kapampangan produced two 19th-century literary giants; Anselmo Fajardo was noted for \"Gonzalo de Córdova\" and \"Comedia Heróica de la Conquista de Granada\", and playwright Juan Crisóstomo Soto wrote \"Alang Dios\" in 1901. \"Crissotan\" was written by Amado Yuzon, Soto's 1950s contemporary and Nobel Prize nominee for peace and literature, to immortalize his contribution to Kapampangan literature.\nKapampangan is primarily spoken in the province of Pampanga and southern Tarlac (Bamban, Capas, Concepcion, San Jose, Gerona, La Paz, Victoria and Tarlac City). It is also spoken in border communities of the provinces of Bataan (Dinalupihan, Hermosa and Orani), Bulacan (Baliuag, San Miguel, San Ildefonso, Hagonoy, Plaridel, Pulilan and Calumpit), Nueva Ecija (Cabiao, San Isidro, Gapan City and Cabanatuan City) and Zambales (Olongapo City and Subic). According to the 2000 Philippine census, 2,312,870 people (out of the total population of 76,332,470) spoke Kapampangan as their native language.\n\nStandard Kapampangan has 21 phonemes: 15 consonants and five vowels; some western dialects have six vowels. Syllabic structure is relatively simple; each syllable contains at least one consonant and a vowel.\n\nKapampangan has five vowel phonemes:\n\nSome dialects also include .\n\nThere are four main diphthongs: , , , and . In most dialects (including standard Kapampangan), and are reduced to and respectively. \n\nMonophthongs have allophones in unstressed and syllable-final positions:\n\nIn the chart of Kapampangan consonants, all stops are unaspirated. The velar nasal occurs in all positions, including the beginning of a word. Unlike other Philippine languages, Kapampangan lacks the phoneme /h/.\n\n\nStress is phonemic in Kapampangan. Primary stress occurs on the last or the next-to-last syllable of a word. Vowel lengthening accompanies primary or secondary stress, except when stress occurs at the end of a word. Stress shift can occur, shifting to the right or left to differentiate between nominal or verbal use (as in the following examples):\n\nStress shift can also occur when one word is derived from another through affixation; again, stress can shift to the right or the left:\n\nIn Kapampangan, the proto-Philippine schwa vowel merged to /a/ in most dialects of Kapampangan; it is preserved in some western dialects. Proto-Philippine is \"tanam\" (to plant) in Kapampangan, compared with Tagalog \"tanim\", Cebuano \"tanom\" and Ilocano tanem (grave).\n\nProto-Philippine merged with . The Kapampangan word for \"new\" is \"bayu\"; it is \"bago\" in Tagalog, \"baro\" in Ilocano, and \"baru\" in Indonesian.\n\nKapampangan nouns are not inflected, but are usually preceded by case markers. There are three types of case markers: absolutive (nominative), ergative (genitive), and oblique.\n\nUnlike English and Spanish (which are nominative–accusative languages) and Inuit and Basque (which are ergative–absolutive languages), Kapampangan has Austronesian alignment (in common with most Philippine languages). Austronesian alignment may work with nominative (and absolutive) or ergative (and absolutive) markers and pronouns.\n\nAbsolutive or nominative markers mark the actor of an intransitive verb and the object of a transitive verb. Ergative or genitive markers mark the object (usually indefinite) of an intransitive verb and the actor of a transitive one. It also marks possession. Oblique markers, similar to prepositions in English, mark (for example) location and direction. Noun markers are divided into two classes: names of people (personal) and everything else (common).\n\nExamples:\n\nKapampangan pronouns are categorized by case: absolutive, ergative, and oblique.\n\n\nGenitive pronouns follow the word they modify. Oblique pronouns can replace the genitive pronoun, but precede the word they modify.\n\n\nThe dual pronoun \"ikata\" and the inclusive pronoun \"ikatamu\" refer to the first and second person. The exclusive pronoun \"ikamí\" refers to the first and third persons.\n\n\nKapampangan differs from many Philippine languages in requiring the pronoun even if the noun it represents, or the grammatical antecedent, is present.\n\n\nThe pronouns \"ya\" and \"la\" have special forms when they are used in conjunction with the words \"ati\" (there is/are) and \"ala\" (there is/are not).\n\n\nBoth \"ati yu\" and \"ati ya\" are correct. The plural form (\"they are\") is \"atilu\" and \"atila\". Both \"ala la\" and \"ala lu\" are correct in the plural form. The singular forms are \"ala ya\" and \"ala yu\".\n\nKapampangan pronouns follow a certain order after verbs (or particles, such as negation words). The enclitic pronoun is always followed by another pronoun (or discourse marker:\n\nPronouns also combine to form a portmanteau pronoun:\n\nPortmanteau pronouns are not usually used in questions and with the word \"naman\":\n\nIn the following chart, blank entries denote combinations which are deemed impossible. Column headings denote pronouns in the absolutive case, and the row headings denote the ergative case.\n\nKapampangan's demonstrative pronouns differ from other Philippine languages by having separate forms for singular and plural.\n\nThe demonstrative pronouns \"ini\" and \"iti\" (and their respective forms) both mean \"this\", but each has distinct uses. \"Iti\" usually refers to something abstract, but may also refer to concrete nouns: \"iting musika\" (this music), \"iti ing gagawan mi\" (this is what we do). \"Ini\" is always concrete: \"ining libru\" (this book), \"ini ing asu nang Juan\" (this is Juan's dog).\n\nIn their locative forms, \"keni\" is used when the person spoken to is not near the subject spoken of; \"keti\" is used when the person spoken to is near the subject spoken of. Two people in the same country will refer to their country as \"keti\", but will refer to their respective towns as \"keni\"; both mean \"here\".\n\nThe plural forms of a demonstrative pronoun and its existential form (for the nearest addressee) are exceptions. The plural of \"iyan\" is \"den/ren\"; the plural of \"niyan\" is \"daren\"; the plural of \"kanyan\" is \"karen\", and the plural of \"oyan\" is \"oren\". The existential form of \"iyan\" is \"ken\".\n\n\nKapampangan verbs are morphologically complex, and take a variety of affixes reflecting focus, aspect and mode. The language has Austronesian alignment, and the verbs change according to triggers in the sentence (better known as voices). Kapampangan has five voices: agent, patient, goal, locative, and cirumstantial. The circumstantial voice prefix is used for instrument and benefactee subjects.\n\nThe direct case morphemes in Kapampangan are \"ing\" (which marks singular subjects) and \"reng\", for plural subjects. Non-subject agents are marked with the ergative-case \"ning\"; non-subject patients are marked with the accusative-case \"-ng\", which is cliticized onto the preceding word.\n\nSpeakers of other Philippine languages find Kapampangan verbs difficult because some verbs belong to unpredictable verb classes and some verb forms are ambiguous. The root word \"sulat\" (write) exists in Tagalog and Kapampangan:\n\nThe object-focus suffix \"-an\" represents two focuses; the only difference is that one conjugation preserves \"-an\" in the completed aspect, and it is dropped in the other conjugation:\n\nOther Philippine languages have separate forms; Tagalog has \"-in\" and \"-an\" in, Bikol and most of the Visayan languages have \"-on\" and \"-an\", and Ilokano has \"-en\" and \"-an\" due to historical sound changes in the proto-Philippine /*e/.\n\nA number of actor-focus verbs do not use the infix \"-um-\", but are usually conjugated like other verbs which do (for example, \"gawa\" (to do), \"bulus\" (to immerse), \"terak\" (to dance), \"lukas\" (to take off), \"sindi\" (to smoke), \"saklu\" (to fetch), \"takbang\" (to step) and \"tuki\" (to accompany). Many of these verbs undergo a change of vowel instead of taking the infix \"-in-\" (completed aspect). In the actor focus (\"-um-\" verbs), this happens only to verbs with the vowel /u/ in the first syllable; \"lukas\" (to take off) is conjugated \"lukas\" (will take off), \"lulukas\" (is taking off), and \"likas\" (took off).\n\nThis change of vowel also applies to certain object-focus verbs in the completed aspect. In addition to /u/ becoming /i/, /a/ becomes /e/ in certain cases (for example, \"dela\" [brought something], \"semal\" [worked on something] and \"seli\" [bought]).\n\nThere is no written distinction between the two \"mag-\" affixes; \"magsalita\" may mean \"is speaking\" or \"will speak\", but there is an audible difference. means \"will speak\" while means \"is speaking\".\n\n\nExamples:\n\nTo express existence (there is, there are) and possession (to have), the word \"atí\" is used:\n\nKapampangan has two negation words: \"alí\" and \"alá\". \"Alí\" negates verbs and equations, and means \"no\" or \"not\":\n\n\"Alá\" is the opposite of \"atí\":\n\n\"E\" is sometimes used instead of \"alí\":\n\n\"Komustá\" is used to ask how something is. Frequently used as a greeting (\"How are you?\"), it is derived from the Spanish \"¿cómo está?\"\n\n\"Nanu\" means \"what\": \"Nanu ya ing gagawan mu?\" (What are you doing?)\n\n\"Ninu\" means \"who\":\n\n\"Nukarin\", meaning \"where\", is used to ask about the location of an object and not used with verbs:\n\nKapampangan borrowed many words from Chinese (particularly Cantonese and Hokkien), such as:\n\nDue to the influence of Buddhism and Hinduism, Kapampangan also acquired words from Sanskrit. A few examples are:\n\n\nThe language also has many Spanish loanwords, including \"suerti\" (from \"suerte\", \"luck\"), \"kurus\" (from \"cruz\", \"cross\"), \"karni\" (from \"carne\", \"meat\"), \"korsunada\" (from \"corazonada\", \"crush\") and \"kasapego\" (from \"casa fuego\", \"matchbox\").\n\nKapampangan, like most Philippine languages, uses the Latin alphabet. Before the Spanish colonization of the Philippines, it was written with the Kulitan alphabet. Kapampangan is usually written in one of three different writing systems: \"sulat Baculud\", \"sulat Wawa\" and a hybrid of the two, \"Amung Samson\".\n\nThe first system (\"sulat Baculud\", also known as \"tutung Capampangan\" or \"tutung Kapampangan\" in the \"sulat Wawa\" system) is based on Spanish orthography, a feature of which involved the use of the letters ⟨c⟩ and ⟨q⟩ to represent the phoneme /k/ (depending on the vowel sound following the phoneme). ⟨C⟩ was used before /a/, /o/ and /u/ (\"ca\", \"co\" and \"cu\"), and ⟨q⟩ was used with ⟨u⟩ before the vowels /e/ and /i/ (\"que\", \"qui\"). The Spanish-based orthography is primarily associated with literature by authors from Bacolor and the text used on the Kapampangan \"Pasion\".\n\nThe second system, the \"Sulat Wawa\", is an \"indigenized\" form which preferred ⟨k⟩ over ⟨c⟩ and ⟨q⟩ in representing the phoneme /k/. This orthography, based on the Abakada alphabet was used by writers from Guagua and rivaled writers from the nearby town of Bacolor.\n\nThe third system, \"Amung Samson\" hybrid orthography, intends to resolve the conflict in spelling between proponents of the \"sulat Baculud\" and \"sulat Wawa\". This system was created by former Catholic priest Venancio Samson during the 1970s to translate the Bible into Kapampangan. It resolved conflicts between the use of ⟨q⟩ and ⟨c⟩ (in \"sulat Baculud\") and ⟨k⟩ (in \"sulat Wawa\") by using ⟨k⟩ before ⟨e⟩ and ⟨i⟩ (instead of [qu]⟩ and using ⟨c⟩ before ⟨a⟩, ⟨o⟩, and ⟨u⟩ (instead of ⟨k⟩). The system also removed ⟨ll⟩ and ⟨ñ⟩ (from Spanish), replacing them with ⟨ly⟩ and ⟨ny⟩.\n\nOrthography has been debated by Kapampangan writers, and orthographic styles may vary by writer. The \"sulat Wawa\" system has become the popular method of writing due to the influence of the Tagalog-based Filipino language (the national language) and its orthography. The \"sulat Wawa\" system is used by the Akademyang Kapampangan and the poet Jose Gallardo.\n\nFrom the 10th century AD to 1571, before the Spanish conquest of Lúsung Guo which resulted in the creation of the Province of Pampanga, Kapampangans used a writing system known as \"Kulitan\" or \"Sulat Kapampangan\". Augustinian missionaries studied the Kapampangan language and its writing system.\n\nAs late as 1699, more than a century after the Spanish conquest, Spaniards continued studying the Kapampangan language and writing system. The Spanish introduced a Romanized orthography, known as the Bacolor Orthography, \"Súlat Bacúlud\" or \"Tutûng Kapampángan\" (English: \"genuine Kapampangan\") because of the number of works written in this orthography. The orthography contains the letters \"q\", \"c\", \"f\", \"ñ\" and \"ll\".\n\nBy the end of the Spanish colonization, the Abakada alphabet (also known as \"Súlat Wáwâ\" or Guagua script) replaced \"c\" and \"q\" with \"k\". Kapampangan nationalist writers from Wáwâ (Guagua) wanted to create an identity distinct from the Bacúlud literary tradition. They were inspired by José Rizal, who proposed simplifying the Romanized Tagalog by replacing \"c\" and \"q\" with \"k\". Two Kapampangan writers from Wáwâ, Aurelio Tolentino and Monico Mercado (with his translation of Rizal's \"Mi último adiós\") have adapted Rizal's proposal into Kapampangan writing.\nOn December 31, 1937, Philippine president Manuel L. Quezon proclaimed the language based on Tagalog as the commonwealth's national language. Zoilo Hilario proposed standardizing Kapampangan orthography. A member of the Institute of National Language (INL), Hilario sought to adopt the Abakada alphabet used in Tagalog as Kapampangan's orthographic system. The legal imposition of Tagalog as the Philippine national language placed all other Philippine languages (including Kapampangan) in a subordinate position. The conflict between the \"purists\" and \"anti-purists\" which plagued the Tagalog literary scene was echoed by Kapampangan writers.\n\nIn 1970 (before his translation of the Bible into Kapampangan), Venancio Samson called the dispute over Kapampangan orthography to the attention of the Philippine Bible Society and submitted a proposal aimed at reconciling the old and the new spelling in Kapampangan writing with what is known as Ámugng Samson's hybrid orthography. Samson's synthesis was readily accepted by the Catholic Archdiocese of Pampanga, which used it in most of its Kapampangan publications during the early 1970s.\n\nIn 1997, the Batiáuan Foundation said that the major obstacle to popularizing Kapampangan was the intense conflict over orthography. The prediction that the Kapampangans would be absorbed by the Tagalogs was seen by Kapampangan groups as a real threat, since Tagalog words were replacing indigenous words in spoken Kapampangan. They revised the Abakada alphabet in Kapampangan writing, removing the letter \"w\" and mandating simplified diacritical marks. According to Akademyang Kapampangan, the Batiáuan revision complicates Kapampangan writing and confuses adherents of their proposed orthography. Batiáuan insists that the diacritical marks are essential in written Kapampangan, because many words are spelled the same but are pronounced differently. From this perspective, diacritical marks facilitate understanding instead of complicating the language.\n\n\nNumbers:\n\nSentences:\n\nWords:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33320336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33320336", "title": "Konda language (Dravidian)", "text": "Konda language (Dravidian)\n\nKonda, also known as Konda-Dora, is one of the Dravidian languages spoken in India. It is spoken by the scheduled tribe of the Konda-Dora who mostly live in the districts of Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, and East Godavari in Andhra Pradesh, Koraput district in Odisha and Assam. It is sometimes written in Telugu script and Odia Script. Some text books have been developed for schools up to 5th standard.\n\nA unique writing system was developed by Sathupati Prasanna Sree for use with the language.\n\n"}
{"id": "731774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731774", "title": "Law of Moses", "text": "Law of Moses\n\nThe Law of Moses ( ), also called the Mosaic Law, refers primarily to the Torah or first five books of the Hebrew Bible. Traditionally believed to have been written by Moses, some academics now believe they had many authors.\n\nThe Law of Moses or Torah of Moses (Hebrew: , \"Torat Moshe\", Septuagint , \"nómos Mōusē\", or in some translations the \"Teachings of Moses\" ) is a biblical term first found in the Book of Joshua , where Joshua writes the Hebrew words of \"Torat Moshe \" on an altar of stones at Mount Ebal. The text continues:\nThe term occurs 15 times in the Hebrew Bible, a further 7 times in the New Testament, and repeatedly in Second Temple period, intertestamental, rabbinical and patristic literature.\n\nThe Hebrew word for the first five books of the Hebrew Bible, \"Torah\" (which means \"law\" and was translated into Greek as \"nomos\" or \"Law\") refers to the same five books termed in English \"Pentateuch\" (from Latinised Greek \"five books,\" implying the five books of Moses). According to some scholars, use of the name \"Torah\" to designate the \"Five Books of Moses\" of the Hebrew Bible is clearly documented only from the 2nd century BCE.\n\nIn modern usage, \"Torah\" can refer to the first five books of the Tanakh, as the Hebrew Bible is commonly called, to the instructions and commandments found in the 2nd to 5th books of the Hebrew Bible, and also to the entire Tanakh and even all of the Oral Law as well. Among English-speaking Christians the term \"The Law\" can refer to the whole Pentateuch including Genesis, but this is generally in relation to the New Testament where \"nomos\" \"the Law\" sometimes refers to all five books, including Genesis. This use of the Hebrew term \"Torah\" (law), for the first five books is considered misleading by 21st-century Christian bible scholar John Van Seters, because the Pentateuch \"consists of about one half law and the other half narrative.\"\n\nThe \"Law of Moses\" in ancient Israel was different from other legal codes in the ancient Near East because transgressions were seen as offenses against God rather than solely as offenses against society (civil law). This contrasts with the Sumerian Code of Ur-Nammu (c. 2100-2050 BCE), and the Babylonian Code of Hammurabi (c. 1760 BCE, of which almost half concerns contract law). However the influence of the ancient Near Eastern legal tradition on the Law of ancient Israel is recognised and well documented. For example the Israelite Sabbatical Year has antecedents in the Akkadian \"mesharum\" edicts granting periodic relief to the poor. Another important distinction is that in ancient Near East legal codes, as in more recently unearthed Ugaritic texts, an important, and ultimate, role in the legal process was assigned to the king. Ancient Israel, before the monarchical period beginning with David, was set up as a theocracy, rather than a monarchy, although God is most commonly portrayed like a king.\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, Moses was the leader of early Israel out of Egypt; and traditionally the first five books of the Hebrew Bible are attributed to him, though most modern scholars believe there were multiple authors. The law attributed to Moses, specifically the laws set out in the books of Leviticus and Deuteronomy, as a consequence came to be considered supreme over all other sources of authority (any king and/or his officials), and the Levites were the guardians and interpreters of the law.\n\nThe Book of Deuteronomy () records Moses saying, \"Take this book of the law, and put it by the side of the Ark of the Covenant of the .\" Similar passages referring to the Law include, for example, Exodus 17:14, \"And the said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, that I will utterly blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven;\" Exodus 24:4, \"And Moses wrote all the words of the , and rose up early in the morning, and built an altar under the mount, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel;\" Exodus 34:27, \"And the said unto Moses, Write thou these words, for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with Israel;\" and \"These are the decrees, the laws and the regulations that the established on Mount Sinai between himself and the Israelites through Moses.\"\n\nThe Book of Kings relates how a \"law of Moses\" was discovered in the Temple during the reign of king Josiah (r. 641–609 BCE). This book is mostly identified as an early version of the Book of Deuteronomy, perhaps chapters 5-26 and chapter 28 of the extant text. This text contains a number of laws, dated to the 8th century BCE kingdom of Judah.\n\nAnother mention of the \"Book of the Law of Moses\" is found in Joshua 8:30-31 .\n\nThe content of the Law is spread among the books of Exodus, Leviticus, and Numbers, and then reiterated and added to in Deuteronomy (\"deutero-nomy\" is Latinised Greek for \"Second reading of the Law\"). This includes:\n\nThe content of the instructions and its interpretations, the Oral Torah, was passed down orally, excerpted and codified in Rabbinical Judaism, and in the Talmud were numbered as the 613 commandments. The Law given to Moses at Sinai (Hebrew Halakhah le-Moshe mi-Sinai הלכה למשה מסיני) is a halakhic distinction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30761666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30761666", "title": "Linguists' Club (London)", "text": "Linguists' Club (London)\n\nThe Linguists' Club was a language club located in London, which operated between 1932 and 1971.\n\nThe Club acted as a meeting place and school for linguists, including interpreters, translators, language students, and other members who merely wanted to practise their language skills. The Club's motto was Se comprendre, c'est la paix \"(Mutual understanding is peace).\"\n\nThe Club's owner and principal was Teddy Pilley. The Club was initially located on Kingsway near to Holborn tube station, and then later in premises at 20 Grosvenor Place (this was the postal address, but the Club's entrance was actually in the mews at the rear at 8/9 Chester Close).\n\nThe Club provided language classes and less-formal discussion groups in a number of languages, including French, German, Italian, Spanish, Russian, and Esperanto. The discussion groups could cover any number of topics, except politics and sex. The Linguists' Club was open 6 days a week, from 11 am to 11 pm. There was a snack bar, no alcohol was served. There was a TV room, a ping-pong room, a small cinema for showing foreign-language films, and Friday evening dances to records. Just after World War II, some Club dances were held on the roof-garden of the Chester Close location, illuminated by coloured light bulbs. For a time, in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, the Club organised trips abroad for members, and there were also visits to a social venue near Leatherhead, Surrey, known as \"Surrey Crest\".\n\nIn the early days of the Club's life, Teddy Pilley facilitated so called \"Working Parties\", to help train aspiring interpreters. An active \"Translation Bureau\" was also established, to provide commercial services to the general public.\n\nMembership in the Linguists' Club could be purchased for periods from one month to a year. Members could opt to suspend membership for periods of absence from the country. There was a Life Membership fee of 100 guineas, and many took this option. There was also a guest membership of one day. The last register of members listed membership numbers in the 70,000s.\n\nUnder the co-editorship of Teddy Pilley and Hilda Westron, the Linguists' Club published a monthly magazine, The Linguist, which had world-wide circulation.\n\nThe Club expanded in the 1950s to include a second location at Niddry Lodge, near to Kensington High Street. Programming included a \"School of English\" to help international members learn English. Niddry Lodge had been built in the early 1800s. There was far more room for activities that could not be held at Chester Close. The Lodge had a 1 acre garden (the largest private garden in Kensington at the time), where classes/discussion groups were held in warm weather. There was also a ballroom where Scottish dancing and fencing lessons were held. Niddry Lodge was on a lease from Kensington Council, and when that expired the Lodge was sadly demolished to make way for the new Kensington & Chelsea town hall. Some of the trees in the town hall courtyard are from the Lodge's garden.\n"}
{"id": "25056726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25056726", "title": "List of Hindi channels in Europe", "text": "List of Hindi channels in Europe\n\nThis is a list of Hindi channels in Europe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nList of hindi channels provider in Europe\n\n"}
{"id": "12809829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12809829", "title": "List of countries where Spanish is an official language", "text": "List of countries where Spanish is an official language\n\nThe following is a list of countries where Spanish is an official language, plus a number of countries where Spanish, or any language closely related to it, is an important or significant language.\n\nSpanish is the majority language in 20 sovereign states and several dependent territories, totaling around 442 million people. It is additionally the main official language in Equatorial Guinea.\n\nIn these countries and territories, Spanish is the main or mostly used language of communication of the vast majority of the population; official documents are written chiefly or solely in that language; and it is taught in schools and utilized as the primary medium of instruction as part of the official curriculum.\n\nThough not an official language at the national level, Spanish is regularly spoken by significant minority populations in each of the nations and territories noted below. In each, public services and information are widely available in Spanish, as are various forms of printed and broadcast media.\n\nThe Spanish language is not official but also holds a special status (in the education system, the media, and some official documents) in the Principality of Andorra which shares land borders with Spain.\n\nSpanish has no official recognition in the Central American nation of Belize, a Commonwealth realm where English is the official national language. However, the country shares land borders with Spanish-speaking Mexico and Guatemala and, per the 2010 Belizean census, Spanish is spoken by a sizable portion of the population; 30% claim Spanish as a mother tongue and about 50% of the population has working knowledge of the language.\n\nThe Spanish language is not official but also holds a special status (in the education system, the media, and some official documents) in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar, which share land borders with Spain.\n\nSpanish has been spoken in the United States for several centuries in the Southwest and Florida, which were all once part of New Spain. However, today only a tiny minority of Spanish speakers in the US trace their language back to those times; the overwhelming majority of speakers come from recent immigration. Only in northern New Mexico and southern Colorado has Spanish maintained speaking communities uninterruptedly since colonial times. Spanish is the most studied foreign language in United States schools and is spoken as a native tongue by 41 million people, plus an additional 11 million fluent second-language speakers. Though not official, Spanish has a special status for education in the U.S. state of New Mexico. With over 50 million native speakers and second language speakers, the United States now has the second largest Spanish-speaking population in the world after Mexico. Spanish is increasingly used alongside English nationwide in business and politics. In the United States, the language is regulated by the North American Academy of the Spanish Language.\n\nSpanish was an official language of the Philippines from the beginning of the Hispanic period in 1565 and through independence until a constitutional change in 1973. \nHowever, President Ferdinand Marcos had Spanish redesigned as an official language under Presidential Decree No. 156, dated 15 March 1973 and Spanish remained official until 1987, when it was re-designated as a voluntary and optional auxiliary language.\n\nOn 8 August 2007, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo announced that the Philippine government asked help from the Spanish Government in her plan to reintroduce Spanish as a required subject in the Philippine school system. By 2012, the language was a compulsory subject at only a very select number of secondary schools. In spite of government promotion of Spanish, less than 0.5% of the population are able to speak Spanish at least proficiently.\n\nWhile Spanish is designated as an optional government language in the Philippines, its usage is very limited and not present in everyday life. In the country, Spanish is regulated by the Philippine Academy of the Spanish Language.\n\nSpanish is a secondary official language, alongside Arabic, in the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, a former Spanish colony and now a partially recognized state, most of whose territory is occupied by Morocco. Spanish is not a native language in that country.\n\nThere are a number of Spanish-based creole languages. Chavacano is spoken in Zamboanga City in the Philippines and is a regional language. Papiamento is the official language in Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao; it has been classified as either a Spanish-based or a Portuguese-based creole.\n\nChamorro is an Austronesian language with many Spanish loanwords; some scholars have considered it a creole, but the most authoritative sources deny this. \n\nJudaeo-Spanish (sometimes known as Ladino or other names) is a language derived from medieval Spanish; it is still spoken by some Sephardi Jews, mainly in Israel.\n"}
{"id": "13393674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13393674", "title": "Makhanlal Chaturvedi", "text": "Makhanlal Chaturvedi\n\nPandit Makhanlal Chaturvedi (4 April 1889 – 30 January 1968), also called Pandit ji, was an Indian poet, writer, essayist, playwright and a journalist who is particularly remembered for his participation in India's national struggle for independence and his contribution to Chhayavaad, the Neo-romanticism movement of Hindi literature. He was awarded the first Sahitya Akademi Award in Hindi for his work \"Him Taringini\" in 1955. The Government of India awarded him the civilian honour of the Padma Bhushan in 1963.\n\nChaturvedi was born in Khandwa village in Khandwa district of Madhya Pradesh on 4 April 1889. He became a schoolteacher when he was aged 16. Later, he was the editor of the nationalist journals \"Prabha\", Pratap and \"Karmaveer\", and was repeatedly incarcerated during the British Raj. After the Indian independence, he refrained from seeking a position in the government, instead continuing to speak and write against social evils and in support of an exploitation-free, equitable society as envisioned by Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nHis noted works are \"Venu Lo Gunje dhara\",\"Him Kirtini\", \"Him Tarangini\" (), \"Yug Charan\" (), and \"Sahitya Devata\" (), and his most noted poems are \"Deep Se Deep Jale\" (), \"Kaisa Chhand Banaa Deti hai\" () and \"Pushp ki Abhilaashaa\" ().\n\nIn his memory, the Madhya Pradesh Sahitya Akademi (Madhya Pradesh Cultural Council) organizes the annual 'Makhanlal Chaturvedi Samaroh', since 1987, besides awarding the annual 'Makhanlal Chaturvedi Puraskar' in poetry for excellence in poetry by an Indian poet \n\nThe Makhanlal Chaturvedi Rashtriya Patrakarita Vishwavidyalaya at Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh has been named in his honor \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33652687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33652687", "title": "Mboa language", "text": "Mboa language\n\nMboa, also known as Mbonga, is an apparently extinct language of Cameroon (Blench 2011). \"Ethnologue\" reports 1,490 speakers cited to 2000, possibly the ethnic population.\n"}
{"id": "22662193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22662193", "title": "Narmin Kamal", "text": "Narmin Kamal\n\nNarmin Kamal () is a novelist and essayist, author of several books published in Azerbaijan. Azerbaijani literature, although not as well known as its Turkish and Russian cousins, is one of the gems of European culture. \n\nAlongside Azerbaijan, her fiction and non-fiction appeared in various literary anthologies and publications including the New York Times, Der Spiegel, Qantara.de and BBC World Service. As a novelist made her debut with \"Aç, mənəm\"(2010, Baku, Qanun Publishing), critically acclaimed, won Imadəddin Nəsimi Prize and Young Novelist RFE/Radio Liberty Prize for debut novels in Baku.\n\nN.Kamal holds BA(hons) in Philosophy and MA in History of Philosophy from Baku State University. Her PhD dissertation on Umberto Eco and Postmodern Philosophy was published in 2008 and 2012 in Baku (Qanun Publishing). She was a guest researcher at University of Navarra of Spain and Bologna University of Italy.\n\nShe was one of twelve European writers invited to write an essay for the young.euro.connect German festival. She was among the six invited to the readings in Berlin and Munich in 2008.\n\nShe was a writer-in-residence at Kulturkontakt, Austria/Vienna in 2011. She gave many speeches and participated in many book festivals, including London, Edinburgh, Wien and Linz book exhibitions.\n\nN.Kamal translated Sophie's World a novel on history of philosophy by Norwegian author Jostein Gaarder from English into Azerbaijani (2010).\n\nHer latest book, essay collection of 70 essays was published in Baku, by Alatoran Publishing in 2017, \"Küçədən Keçən Adam haqda yazılar\" (available in Azerbaijani).\n\n2017, March - \"Glückliche Wirkungen: Eine literarische Reise in bessere Welten\" (German Edition) by Ullstein Buchverlage, the anthology includes one essay by N.Kamal.\n\nShe was one of the founder members of AYO (Azad Yazarlar Ocagi), it was a kind of Bloomsbury Group of Azerbaijan, and deputy editor at Alatoran magazine(2004-2008), it was the first independent literature magazine after the authoritarian Soviet legacy of soc-realism, which soon became the voice of a generation. Alatoran published new generation Azerbaijani writers, as well as translations from American and European literature. The group is known today mostly for its dissident voice critisizing the state policy and certain tendencies of the society.\n\n2010 - Imadəddin Nəsimi Fiction Prize\n\n2011 - \"Young Novelist\", Radio Liberty Azerbaijani Service's Debut Novel Prize\n\n2010 - The first place among 67 essays at the essay competition titled \"The Life and Thoughts of an Azerbaijani Woman\", organized in Baku with the generous support of the Women Forum and British Embassy in Baku.\n\n2011 - Milo Dor Stipendium, Austria/Vienna\n\n2015 - Rafig Tagi Award\n\n2016 - Shortlisted at \"Rodnoy Dom\" Belarus Short Story Competition\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38580688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38580688", "title": "Occitan Wikipedia", "text": "Occitan Wikipedia\n\nThe Occitan Wikipedia () is the Occitan language version of Wikipedia. The Occitan version of Wikipedia had 85,475 articles on 18 October 2013 (ranked 52nd among the 287 languages versions of Wikipedia).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20180930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20180930", "title": "Profanity in science fiction", "text": "Profanity in science fiction\n\nProfanity in science fiction (SF) shares all of the issues of profanity in fiction in general, but has several unique aspects of its own, including the use of alien profanities (such as the alien expletive \"shazbot!\" from \"Mork & Mindy\", a word that briefly enjoyed popular usage outside of that television show).\n\nIn his advice to other SF writers, Orson Scott Card states that there are no hard-and-fast rules for the use of profanity in SF stories, despite what may have been expected of writers in the past. The onus is squarely on the writer to determine how much profanity to use, to enquire as to each publisher's limits, and to think about the effect that the use of profanity will have on the reader, both in perceiving the characters and in possibly being offended by the story as a whole.\n\nCard urges those writers who do decide to omit profanity from their stories to omit it completely. He regards the coinage of \"tanj\" (\"There Ain't No Justice\") by Larry Niven as a \"noble experiment\" that \"proved that euphemisms are often worse than the crudities that they replace\", because they make the story look silly. In Card's opinion, such nonce words simply don't work.\n\nRuth Wajnryb shares this opinion, stating that \"tanj\" or \"flarn\" don't work as profanities because they are not real, and are \"just a futile attempt to give clean-cut stories some foul-mouthed action\".\n\nJes Battis observes, in contrast, that the use of \"frell\" and \"dren\" in \"Farscape\" allowed the television series to get away with dialogue that would normally never have made it past broadcasting and network censorship. The words are respectively equivalent to \"fuck\" and \"shit\" and are used as both interjections and nouns in the series. In the episode \"Suns and Lovers\", for example, Aeryn Sun says \"frell me dead!\" as an exclamation of surprise, much as a real-world person would utter \"well, fuck me!\" or, indeed, \"fuck me dead!\" Battis also notes that \"Firefly\" used a similar strategy, by using Mandarin Chinese and Cantonese for all profanities, also using the word \"gorram\" as a replacement for \"god damn\", a phrase usually considered blasphemous. Likewise, dialogue in \"Battlestar Galactica\" is liberally peppered with the word \"frak\" ('fuck').\n\nSimilarly, invented expletives are used throughout the \"Star Wars\" expanded universe. For example, the Alderaanian expletive \"stang\" was introduced in the 1978 novel \"Splinter of the Mind's Eye\" and subsequently used in \"Star Wars\" novels, comic books, and games. Also, \"Star Wars\" authors commonly use the Huttese curse \"fierfek\", first introduced in a short story published in the 1996 anthology \"Tales from Jabba's Palace\", and the Corelian curse \"sithspawn\", first introduced in the 1994/1995 comic book series \"Dark Empire II\".\n\nParke Godwin opines that excessive profanity, as a part of naturalistic dialogue, \"dulls much modern fiction and too many films\" and states it to be a pitfall for novice writers, or for writers who never grow up, to fall into. He states that it is a \"lazy copout that no longer frightens horses in the street, merely annoys and ultimately bores an intelligent reader\". He advises writers that \"less is more\", and that if it really is the right thing for a character to be salty, it should be made clear to the reader why, observing as an example that in his science fiction novel \"Limbo Search\" the profanity used by character Janice Tyne is a symptom of her fear and tension, caused by being burned out at age 27 and afraid of the future.\n\nWanda Raiford observes that the use of the nonce word \"frak\" in both \"Battlestar Galactica\" series is \"an indispensable part of the naturalistic tone that show strives to achieve\", noting that it, and \"toaster\" (a racial epithet for Cylons), allow the show to use obscene and racialist dialogue that no real-life educated American adult would consider using the real-life equivalents of in polite company. She compares the racial hatred associated with the use of \"nigger\" (an utterance of which she states to have preceded and accompanied \"every lynching of a black person in America\") to the racial hatred of the Cylons, by the humans, that the use of such phrases as \"frakking toasters\" indicates in the series. She also observes that several of the characters, including Gaius Baltar, are \"frakking toaster lovers\".\n\nIn the series of novels by Peter David, the principal protagonist, Captain Mackenzie Calhoun, frequently utters the word \"grozit\", a curse from his home world of Xenex. It is understood to be the equivalent to \"shit\".\n\nThe 2005 video game \"\" also used \"fierfek\", the expletive popular in the \"Star Wars\" franchise. This word is described in-universe as being an alien loan-word originally meaning 'poison', but has been adopted by the game's special forces protagonists as a curse word to make the illusion of playing as commandos more believable.\n\nProfanity in SF also encompasses the idea of things that \"alien cultures\" might find profane, and the notion that what non-humans and humans find to be profane may differ markedly. Card observes that human profanity encompasses words dealing with sexual intercourse and states that that tells one something about human beings. He proceeds to suggest that what aliens might find to be profane can be a useful tool for suggesting the alienness of a culture. The first example of this that he gives are alien cultures that have no trouble with words about sexual intercourse, but that find words to do with \"eating\" to be profane. \"\" made use of this concept in the episode \"Vox Sola\". The second example Card provides is that of alien cultures where the idea of property ownership is considered to be as obscene as pederasty. Douglas Adams's \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" at one point mentions that the word Belgium is the worst profanity in the galaxy.\n\nAs mentioned above, \"shazbot\" briefly enjoyed popular usage outside of its television show. \"Battlestar Galactica\"s \"frak\", a word that Lee Goldberg characterizes as \"something truly amazing and subversive\" and that Scott Adams calls \"pure genius\", has also escaped its original context. Originally spelled \"frack\", it along with \"felgercarb\" were coined by writer Glen A. Larson for the 1978 \"Battlestar Galactica\", for much the same reasons that \"frell\" and \"dren\" were coined for \"Farscape\": the ability to use profane dialogue, with words that would be immediately understood as synonymous with the real profanities that they stood in for, without falling foul of network censorship and broadcasting restrictions accompanying its original Sunday evening broadcast timeslot.\n\nThe producers re-spelled the word \"frak\" for the 2004 \"Battlestar Galactica\" series, in order to make it, literally, a four-letter word; the word appears in several Black Library novels before then, most notably the Ciaphas Cain series. It has escaped, in both forms, from the series to a whole variety of other contexts, from a \"Dilbert\" cartoon strip where Dilbert mutters it, through other television shows including \"The Office\", \"Gossip Girl\", \"Veronica Mars\", \"30 Rock\", and \"Scrubs\", and Robert Crais' Elvis Cole novel \"Chasing Darkness\", to everyday spoken use.\n\nThe BBC Two science fiction television series \"Red Dwarf\" replaces most of its characters' profanities with invented terms, mainly \"smeg\" (possibly a truncation of \"smegma\") and its compound \"smeg-head\". Other common insults are \"goit\" and \"gimboid\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28744408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28744408", "title": "Project Eden (company)", "text": "Project Eden (company)\n\nProject Eden is a Canadian research and development private corporation, which designs products for seniors with arthritis. Its primary product is the ‘’’Edex’\", a writing implement which reduces movements traditionally associated with writing. Project Eden was founded in Waterloo, Ontario and is currently headquartered in Kitchener, Ontario. Its products are currently manufactured by\n\nProject Eden was founded by a group of entrepreneurs in the Kitchener-Waterloo region of Ontario. Though founded in Waterloo, Ontario, it later relocated to Kitchener, Ontario. Although it manufactured the first series of Edex writers in house, it later outsourced this work to a company in the Greater Toronto Area.\n\nProject Eden’s main product, the Edex, is a finger mounted writing aid designed to meet the needs of the arthritic population, most of whom are Baby Boomers. This target population often find their writing abilities restricted due to pain and frustration, which can be attenuated by the Edex.\n\nThe Edex is made of a pair of padded aluminum loops which fit around the index and middle fingers. Any writing instrument that is attached to the device can be operated with minimal finger movement, allowing the hand to remain close to its rest position. This reduces the problems faced by arthritic seniors when trying to write.\n\nWhile other products by Project Eden are available in the market, or in the process of being launched, Project Eden has also invested in the research and development of other products for arthritic seniors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9981293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9981293", "title": "Rama language", "text": "Rama language\n\nRama is one of the indigenous languages of the Chibchan family spoken by the Rama people on the island of Rama Cay and south of lake Bluefields on the Caribbean coast of Nicaragua. Other indigenous languages of this region include Miskito and Sumu . Rama is one of the northernmost languages of the Chibchan family .\n\nThe Rama language is severely endangered. Their language was described as \"dying quickly for lack of use\" as early as the 1860s . By 1980, the Rama were noted as having \"all but lost their original ethnic language\", and had become speakers of a form of English creole instead . In 1992, only approximately 36 fluent speakers could be found among an ethnic population of 649 individuals in 1992 . The number of speakers on Rama Cay island was only 4 in 1992. There have been several language revitalization efforts. The fieldwork for the first dictionary of Rama was done during this time by Robin Schneider, a graduate student from the University of Berlin .It is spoken in Honduras and Nicaragua\n\nThere are three basic vowel sounds: \"a, i\" and \"u\". In addition to these, \"e\" and \"o\" have been introduced as distinct vowels in some foreign loanwords. Each vowel may be either short or long. Here the vowels are shown in standard Rama orthography\n(see for example ):\n\nThe following consonants are found (IPA transcriptions are shown where helpful):\n\nRama words have non-predictable stress.\n\nRama phonotactics includes notable consonant clusters at the beginning of words (e.g. \"toucan\", \"hot\", \"man\", \"killed\") and word-internally (e.g. \"speaks\", \"fish\"). Variations among speakers witness a tendency to simplify such clusters (e.g. or \"man\", or \"we, us, our\").\n\nSuch clusters often arise due to a tendency to omit unstressed short vowels. For example, when the third person singular subject prefix \"i-\" and the past tense suffix \"-u\" are added to the verb stem \"eat\", thus: \"i-\" + + \"-u\", the verb stem loses its only vowel, resulting in the form \"he/she/it ate\". Sometimes omitting different vowels may lead to alternative results. Adding the past tense suffix \"-u\" to the verb stem \"kill\", i.e. + \"-u\", may give either or \"killed\".\n\nThere are also cases of vowel alternation in morphemes (e.g. the first-person subject prefix may appear as \"n-, ni-\" or \"na-\") and lexical stems (thus the stem \"stay\" may appear in the forms \"aakir-i\" \"stays\" and \"aaikur-u\" \"stayed\", where the short stem vowel copies the vowel of the suffix).\n\nConsonants display a degree of sandhi-type alternation, as seen for example in the final consonant of the same stem \"stay, be\", cf. the imperative \"stay!\". This latter variant is found both word-final and before a suffix beginning with a consonant (e.g. \"if there is\").\n\nIn terms of grammatical typology Rama may be considered a fairly \"normal\" language for the linguistic area within which it is located, despite the lack of close genetic ties with its immediate neighbours. For example, Rama shares some general typological features with Miskito, a dominant contact language, displaying many characteristics typical of SOV languages (even though not all sentences are actually verb-final). A single set of prefixes serves to express both pronominal possessors (e.g. \"n-\" \"my eye\") and subjects (e.g. \"n-\" \"I went\"). Noun phrase relations are indicated by postpositions, tense and subordination by verbal suffixes.\n\nThere are no articles. Nouns are frequently undetermined, e.g. \"(The) lizard walks on (the) ground\" (literally: lizard ground on (s)he-walks), \"He/she caught (a) fish with (a) hook\" (fish hook with (s)he-caught).\n\nDemonstrative determiners precede the noun: \"this house\", \"that dog\". Quantifiers follow the noun: \"one dog\", \"two cats\", \"many houses\", \"every morning\", \"all the people\", \"the other dog, another dog\".\n\nMost nouns do not change for number, but those denoting humans can take the plural suffix or , as in \"men\", \"women\", \"children\", etc.\n\nAttributive adjectives follow the noun they qualify: \"(a/the) big fish\".\n\nInalienable pronominal possession, found with body parts and characteristics, is expressed by prefixes attached to the possessed noun: \"my eye\", \"his/her strength\", \"our fingers\".\n\nIn other cases (including kinship relations), a genitive pronoun (formed from the pronominal prefix + ) precedes the possessed noun, e.g. \"my cat / house / name / child / father / sister\", \"your family (lit. your people)\", \"his/her name\", \"our Rama language\".\n\nThe forms etc. also function predicatively (as equivalents of English possessive pronouns), as in \"That cat is mine\".\n\nNominal possession is expressed by two constructions: possessor + possessed (i.e. simple juxtaposition), e.g. \"my father's name\" (my father name), and possessor + + possessed ( being a genitive postposition), e.g. \"Nora's house\".\n\nPersonal pronouns have free (independent) and bound (prefix) forms as in the following table. The third person singular bound form is \"i-\" before a consonant or \"y-\" before a vowel.\n\nThe independent pronouns are often used as subjects: \"I live in Bluefields\" (I town in stay), \"Can you sew a dress?\" (you dress sew-IRREALIS), \"He/She is going\". They may also be complements of postpositions: \"My mother lives in this house with me\" (my mother this house in stay I with), \"from you\", \"The tiger came out at them\" (tiger they at came-out). Note that \"-ut\" changes to \"-ul\" before a vowel, for example in \"with us\".\n\nThe prefix forms of the pronouns are used as subject prefixes with verbs: \"I gave it to Nelly\" (Nelly OBJECT I-gave), \"Tomorrow I will cook some meat\" (tomorrow meat I-will-cook), \"With whom did you go?\" (who with you-went), \"he/she went\", \"They came to the island\" (island in they-came). In the second person plural, \"m-\" is prefixed and \"-lut\" suffixed to the verb.\n\nSubject prefixes are omitted when the subject is represented by an independent pronoun: \"I am going\" is either or , \"He is going\" is either or , etc. They are also commonly absent in the presence of a full subject noun phrase: \"My father is going\", but \"repetition\" of the subject is also possible: \"The lizard (he) walks on the ground\" (lizard ground on it-walks).\n\nA pronominal object is expressed by adding the postposition \"aa\" to the pronouns, which adopt the prefix form in the singular but the full form in the plural: but (for ) etc. But third person objects are commonly zero-marked, that is, the absence of an overt object of a transitive verb implies an understood \"him\", \"her\" or \"it\", e.g. \"Anangsku\" \"They cleaned it\" (lit. they-cleaned).\n\nThe demonstrative pronouns are the same as the corresponding determiners: \"this\", \"that\", as in \"This is my house\".\n\nThe interrogative pronouns are \"what\", \"who\", as in \"What is your name?\", \"Who speaks Rama?\" (who Rama language speaks), \"With whom did you go?\" (who with you-went).\n\nRama postpositions perform roughly the same functions as English prepositions, as in \"on the ground\", \"in (the) town\", \"with me\", \"of the house\", etc.\n\nPostpositional phrases may occur either before or after the verb. Some postpositions have a shorter and a longer form; following the verb the long forms are used, e.g. \"I ran away from my father\" (I-ran my father from) but before the verb the short forms are more usual: (my father from I-ran).\n\nAlthough or is given as an object marker, most objects (other than personal pronouns) take no postposition, e.g. \"The tiger ate the man\" (tiger man ate).\n\nIn addition to the simple postpositions there are more complex forms of the relational type that express more specific relationships. These are composed of a noun-like lexical form followed by a postposition, such as \"inside\", \"out of\". They are placed after a noun phrase, e.g. \"inside the hole\", or a postpositional phrase, e.g. \"out of the pot\" (literally: pot in out-from). Such expressions may also be used adverbially.\n\nThe simplest structure for verb forms consists of these elements:\n\n\ne.g. \"I live in Bluefields\" (no subject prefix and no tense suffix), \"He/She is going\" (no subject prefix, present tense suffix), \"With whom did you go?\" (second person subject prefix, past tense suffix), \"I will cook some meat\" (first person subject prefix, future/irrealis suffix), \"when they see the tiger\" (third person plural subject prefix, \"when\" subordinator), \"I am looking for meat to buy\" (first person singular subject prefix, purpose subordinator).\n\nThis basic structure may be expanded by adding other elements, including aspect markers (which come between the stem and the tense/mood suffix) and preverbs (which precede the subject prefix, if present). More complex meanings can be expressed through the use of serial verb constructions.\n\nMost verb forms end in a suffix such as one of the following which either specifies a tense (or a mood) or else signals a subordinate clause:\n\nUse of one of the subordinator suffixes constitutes the main subordination strategy. Since these suffixes occupy the same place as the tense suffixes, the resulting subordinate clauses are tenseless, in this respect resembling non-finite clauses in European languages. Nonetheless, Rama verb forms with subordinators take subject prefixes under the same basic conditions as tensed ones, and in this way resemble finite forms.\n\nExamples with \"come\": \"I am coming\", \"I came\", \"I will come\", \"for me to come\", \"when I come\", \"if I come\" etc.\n\nIn some cases the lack of any suffix signals a lack of marked tense or a habitual sense: compare \"I am ready to go\" (now) with \"I live in the town\". Imperatives in the second person singular are also suffixless, e.g. \"Come!\" One verb, \"go\", has a suppletive imperative or \"go!\".\n\nSometimes forms with the \"-bang\" suffix are used in independent clauses: see the section on Aspect below.\n\nUsing the simple past tense of \"eat\", the sentence means \"The tiger ate the man\", but the \"manner of eating\" may be specified further to express completion of the action by adding to the stem the aspect marker , giving \"The tiger ate the man all up\". Further examples with are: \"He/she shut the door tight\" ( \"close\") and \"They saw the whole manatee\" ( \"see\"). Another aspect-marking suffix similarly used is () expressing repetition.\n\nA range of further aspectual nuances may be conveyed by a variety of periphrastic constructions. Several of these involve the verb \"stay\" or its derivative (which contains the preverb ), either of which, following a verb stem, may convey progressive aspect: \"I am crying\" ( \"cry\"; the second vowel in can copy the vowel of the suffix). can also express \"be about to (do something)\".\n\nThe suffix (see also above) may express intention, as in \"I am going to look at the baby\" ( \"look at\"), and in first person plural imperatives (i.e. \"let's...\"), as in \"Let's sleep!\" ( \"sleep\"). In the latter use the subject prefix may be omitted, e.g. \"Let's speak Rama!\" ( \"speak\").\n\nA form related to , , means \"want\" with a nominal object, as in \"He/she wants a banana\", but with verbal complements means \"be going to (do something)\" in the simple form, as in \"He/she is going to walk\" ( \"walk\"), or \"get ready to (do something)\" in the progressive construction, as in \"I get ready to drink\" ( \"drink\").\n\nAnother periphrasis, constructed with following the subordinate form in of the main verb, expresses \"be ready to (do something)\", e.g. \"I am ready to go\" ( \"go\").\n\nOne other means of expressing aspectual (or mood) nuances is provided by the use of a second set of emphatic tense suffixes which replace the simple suffixes, namely emphatic affirmative, habitual past and emphatic future.\n\nModal notions are expressed by further periphrastic constructions. A verb with the suffix may be used in an independent clause to convey obligation: \"All the children must go to school\". is used as a modal auxiliary of volition, as in \"I want to learn Rama\" ( \"learn\"). Ability may be expressed by the future/irrealis tense form in , e.g. \"Will/can you sew a dress?\" Inability is expressed by the negator preceding the complete verb, e.g. \"I cannot speak Rama\".\n\nRama has preverbs which form constructions comparable to English phrasal verbs such as \"run \"away\"\", \"come \"over\"\", \"carry \"on\"\" etc. The Rama preverbs resemble some of the postpositions in form: they are and . Like English phrasal verbs, the meanings and uses of Rama preverb constructions can be quite idiomatic and unpredictable. Preverbs precede the subject prefix if present: \"I ran away from (him/her)\" ( \"run\" with the preverb \"from\": is the subject prefix). \"They brought the wild pig to the town\" ( \"come with, i.e. bring\"). \"Who took the child?\" ( \"go with, i.e. take\").\n\nWhile many preverb-verb combinations are lexically specified, may also be used productively to express an instrumental argument, e.g. \"That's why we have tongs, in order to roast meat with (them)\" (therefore tongs we-have, meat for-we-roast-with).\n\nA limited range of serial-type constructions are found. A notable case of this is the use of the verb \"walk\" following another verb, as in: \"Men of Rama Cay go to look for manatee in the lagoon\" (island from man manatee they-seek walk lagoon side). The morphological analysis of \"they go to look for\" is: (PREVERB-they-seek walk-PRESENT).\n\nNoun and adjective predicates are constructed without a copula, in the order Subject + Predicate, e.g. \"This is my house\" (this my house), \"His name is Basilio\" (his name Basilio), \"The manatee is a big animal\" (manatee animal big), \"My house is pretty\" (my house pretty); so also \"That cat is mine\" and \"My cat is for killing rats\". The Subject + Predicate order is inverted in a question such as \"What is his name?\"\n\nThe verb \"stay\" is used to express \"be (in a place)\" and \"be (in a state)\", as in \"The school is on the south side\" (school south side in stay), \"I am fine\" (I well stay). can also mean \"live (in a place)\" as in \"I live on Rama Cay\" (I island in stay), and \"there is\" as in \"There are many houses on Rama Cay\" (house many island in stay).\n\nThe verb (or ) means \"have\", e.g. \"I have two sisters\" (I sister two have), \"That's why we have tongs\", \"The octopus has many arms\".\n\nIn sentences with a verb as predicate, the basic order is:\nOther sentence elements (in bold here) may be placed:\nClausal elements (i.e. those containing a verb) usually follow the main verb, e.g. \"I am going to plant corn\", \"I am looking for meat to buy\", \"They are happy when they hear about the manatee\".\n\nYes/no questions take the same form as the corresponding statement, e.g. \"Is your house big?\", \"Do you live on Rama Cay?\", \"Do you speak Rama?\", \"Have you a sister?\", \"Can you sew a dress like mine?\" Such questions may be answered using \"Yes\" or \"No\".\n\nSome question words (sometimes called wh-words):\n\nQuestion words may be preceded by another sentence constituent as topic, e.g. \"Who took the child?\" (child who took), \"And you, where do you live?\" (you, where live).\n\nHowever, question words generally stand at the beginning of the sentence: \"Where do you live?\" (where you live), \"Where does the wari live?\" (where wari lives), \"Where is Nora's house?\" (where Nora GENITIVE house stay), \"Where is he/she going?\" (where he/she goes), \"Where is his/her father going?\" (where his/her father goes), \"Who speaks our Rama language?\" (who our Rama language speaks), \"With whom did you go?\" (who with you-went).\n\nQuestions words with a non-verbal predicate: \"What is your name?\", \"How is your family?\"\n\nSentences may be negated by placing after the verb or predicate, e.g. \"I do not live on Rama Cay\", \"You do not speak Rama\", \"My house is not big\", \"That dog is not mine\", or by placing \"aa\" before the verb, e.g. \"They didn't look for the manatee\", \"I don't want to go\".\n\nThere is a special negative word, , to express impossibility, e.g. \"I cannot live in Bluefields\".\n\nCoordinating conjunctions: \"and\", \"but\": \"My sister and my brother live in this house with me\", \"I have one dog and you have two cats\", \"My house is not big, but it is pretty\".\n\nSubordinate clauses may be formed by means of subordinator suffixes as described above. Reported speech is formed by juxtaposition as in \"They found it, they say\" ( \"find\", \"say\"). Relative clauses also have no specific subordinator but the clause marker may be employed, e.g. \"The meat I bought, I gave it to Nelly\" (meat I-bought Nelly OBJECT I-gave).\n\nRama has borrowed words from Miskito (e.g. \"big\"), English, Rama Cay Creole and Spanish. Besides such loans, Rama has a primary lexicon of Chibchan origin, expanded through various word-formation processes.\n\nMany verb stems are made up of extensions from primary roots by the addition of one of the prefixes and , which often correlate with intransitive and transitive meanings respectively. Evident intransitive derivation with is illustrated by the pairs \"kill\" : \"die\", \"break (tr./intr.)\" and \"roast (tr./intr.)\", while other cases of outward resemblance are semantically opaque, e.g. \"eat\" and \"speak\", or involve more complex relationships, e.g. (i.e. ) \"find\" and ( [preverb] + \"seek\".\n\nVerbs may be derived from other parts of speech by suffixing one of several verbal roots glossed as \"do, make\", such as and .\n\nA common adjective-forming suffix is , while the participial suffix gives rise to both adjectives and nouns.\n\nCertain recurrent endings found in numerous noun stems appear to correspond to vague semantic classes. A notable example is , which occurs as the last component in nouns many of which denote round objects, fruits or body parts. As an inalienable noun in its own right, means \"eye\" or \"seed\".\n\nComposition is another common way of forming nouns, as in \"meat\" (from \"animal\" + \"flesh\") or the inalienable noun \"eyelash\" (from \"eye\" + \"hair\").\n\nNew concepts can also be expressed syntactically, e.g. through genitive constructions such as \"church\" (lit. house of prayer), or through verbal paraphrase.\n\nPartial or complete reduplication is seen in the forms of some words, including onomatopoeics such as \"dripping\", animal names like \"spider\" or \"rabbit\", colour names and other descriptive adjectives such as \"yellow\", \"green\", \"speckled\", \"calm\", and others, e.g. \"a little\".\n\nSome recorded words that were claimed to be from the Corobicí language are actually from a dialect of Rama spoken in the region of Upala.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8884157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8884157", "title": "Rumpology", "text": "Rumpology\n\nRumpology, Asstrology or bottom reading is a pseudoscience akin to physiognomy, performed by examining crevices, dimples, warts, moles and folds of a person's buttocks in much the same way a chirologist would read the palm of the hand.\n\nThe term \"rumpology\" is a neologism. The American astrologer Jackie Stallone claims that rumpology is known to have been practiced in ancient times by the Babylonians, the Indians, and the Ancient Greeks and Romans, although she provides no evidence for this claim. Stallone has been largely responsible for the supposed \"revival\" of rumpology in modern times.\n\nRumpologists have a variety of theories as to the meaning of different posterior characteristics. According to Stallone, the left and right buttocks reveal a person's past and future, respectively, although she has also commented that \"The crack of your behind corresponds to the division of the two hemispheres of the brain\". According to blind German clairvoyant and rumpologist Ulf Beck, an \"apple-shaped, muscular bottom indicates someone who is charismatic, dynamic, very confident and often creative. A person who enjoys life. A pear-shaped bottom suggests someone very steadfast, patient and down-to-earth.\" The British rumpologist Sam Amos also uses shape to diagnose personality, and claims that \"A round bottom indicates the person is open, happy and optimistic in life. However, a flat bottom suggests the person is rather vain and is negative and sad.\"\n\nRumpology can be performed either by sight, touch or by using buttock prints. In addition to live readings, Jackie Stallone will perform buttock readings using e-mailed digital photographs, and has claimed to predict the outcome of Presidential elections and Oscar awards by reading the bottoms of her two pet Doberman Pinschers. Ulf Buck claims he can read people's futures by feeling their naked buttocks.\n\nUpon learning about a TV show 'rumpologist' known as Professor Jose Miranda (a pupil of Stallone's), the Florida psychic Sheree Silver disassociated herself from the practice, telling the \"Sun-Sentinel\", \"I can't imagine anyone wasting their time and money on someone like this when there are so many legitimate psychics out there.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23409759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23409759", "title": "Sami languages", "text": "Sami languages\n\nSami languages () are a group of Uralic languages spoken by the Sami people in Northern Europe (in parts of northern Finland, Norway, Sweden and extreme northwestern Russia). There are, depending on the nature and terms of division, ten or more Sami languages. Several names are used for the Sami languages: \"Saami\", \"Sámi\", \"Saame\", \"Samic\", \"Saamic\", as well as the exonyms \"Lappish\" and \"Lappic\". The last two, along with the term \"Lapp\", are now often considered pejorative.\n\nThe Sami languages form a branch of the Uralic language family. According to the traditional view, Sami is within the Uralic family most closely related to the Finnic languages (Sammallahti 1998). However, this view has recently been doubted by some scholars, who argue that the traditional view of a common Finno-Sami protolanguage is not as strongly supported as had been earlier assumed, and that the similarities may stem from an areal influence on Sami from Finnic.\n\nIn terms of internal relationships, the Sami languages are divided into two groups: western and eastern. The groups may be further divided into various subgroups and ultimately individual languages. (Sammallahti 1998: 6-38.) Parts of the Sami language area form a dialect continuum in which the neighbouring languages may be mutually intelligible to a fair degree, but two more widely separated groups will not understand each other's speech. There are, however, some sharp language boundaries, in particular between Northern Sami, Inari Sami and Skolt Sami, the speakers of which are not able to understand each other without learning or long practice. The evolution of sharp language boundaries seems to suggest a relative isolation of the language speakers from each other and not very intensive contacts between the respective speakers in the past. There is some significance in this, as the geographical barriers between the respective speakers are no different from those in other parts of the Sami area.\n\n\n\n\"The above figures are approximate.\"\n\nThe Sami languages are spoken in Sápmi in Northern Europe, in a region stretching over the four countries Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia, reaching from the southern part of central Scandinavia in the southwest to the tip of the Kola Peninsula in the east. The borders between the languages do not align with the ones separating the region's modern nation states.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages and early modern period, now-extinct Sami languages were also spoken in the central and southern parts of Finland and Karelia and in a wider area on the Scandinavian Peninsula. Historical documents as well as Finnish and Karelian oral tradition contain many mentions of the earlier Sami inhabitation in these areas (Itkonen, 1947). Also, loanwords as well as place-names of Sami origin in the southern dialects of Finnish and Karelian dialects testify of earlier Sami presence in the area (Koponen, 1996; Saarikivi, 2004; Aikio, 2007). These Sami languages, however, became extinct later, under the wave of the Finno-Karelian agricultural expansion.\n\nThe Proto-Samic language is believed to have formed in the vicinity of the Gulf of Finland between 1000 BC to 700 AD, deriving from a common Proto-Sami-Finnic language (M. Korhonen 1981). However, reconstruction of any basic proto-languages in the Uralic family have reached a level close to or identical to Proto-Uralic (Salminen 1999). According to the comparative linguist Ante Aikio, the Proto-Samic language developed in South Finland or in Karelia around 2000–2500 years ago, spreading then to northern Fennoscandia. The language is believed to have expanded west and north into Fennoscandia during the Nordic Iron Age, reaching central Scandinavia during the Proto-Scandinavian period ca. 500 AD (Bergsland 1996). The language assimilated several layers of unknown Paleo-European languages from the early hunter-gatherers, first during the Proto-Sami phase and second in the subsequent expansion of the language in the west and the north of Fennoscandia that is part of modern Sami today. (Aikio 2004, Aikio 2006).\n\nAt present there are nine living Sami languages. The largest six of the languages have independent literary languages; the three others have no written standard, and of them, there are only a few, mainly elderly, speakers left. The ISO 639-2 code for all Sami languages without its proper code is \"smi\". The seven written languages are:\n\n\nThe other Sami languages are critically endangered or moribund and have very few speakers left. Pite Sami has about 30–50 speakers, and a dictionary and an official orthography is under way. A descriptive grammar (Wilbur 2014) has been published. Ume Sami likely has under 20 speakers left, and ten speakers of Ter Sami were known to be alive in 2004. The last speaker of Akkala Sami is known to have died in December 2003, and the eleventh attested variety, Kemi Sami, became extinct in the 19th century. An additional Sami language, Kainuu Sami, became extinct in the 18th century, and probably belonged to the Eastern group like Kemi Sami, although the evidence for the language is limited.\n\nThe Sami languages use Latin alphabets, with these respective additional letters.\n\nNote that the letter Đ is a capital D with a bar across it (Unicode U+0110) also used in Serbo-Croatian etc., and is not the capital eth (Ð; U+00D0) found in Icelandic, Faroese or Old English, to which it is almost identical.\n\nNote also that the different characters used on the different sides of the Swedish/Norwegian border merely are orthographic standards based on the Swedish and Norwegian alphabet, respectively, and don't denote different pronunciations.\n\nKildin Sami now uses an extended version of Cyrillic (in three slightly different variants): Аа А̄а̄ Ӓӓ Бб Вв Гг Дд Ее Е̄е̄ Ёё Ё̄ё̄ Жж Зз Һһ/ʼ Ии Ӣӣ Йй Јј/Ҋҋ Кк Лл Ӆӆ Мм Ӎӎ Нн Ӊӊ Ӈӈ Оо О̄о̄ Пп Рр Ҏҏ Сс Тт Уу Ӯӯ Фф Хх Цц Чч Шш (Щщ) Ьъ Ыы Ьь Ҍҍ Ээ Э̄э̄ Ӭӭ Юю Ю̄ю̄ Яя Я̄я̄\n\nThe Skolt Sami standard uses ʹ (U+02B9) as a soft sign, but other apostrophes (like ' (U+0027), ˊ (U+02CA) or ´ (U+00B4)) are also sometimes used in published texts.\n\nIn Finland, the Sami language act of 1991 granted Sami people the right to use the Sami languages for all government services. Three Sami languages are recognized: Northern, Skolt and Inari Sami. The Sami language act of 2003 made Sami an official language in Enontekiö, Inari, Sodankylä and Utsjoki municipalities.\n\nAdopted in April 1988, Article 110a of the Norwegian Constitution states: \"It is the responsibility of the authorities of the State to create conditions enabling the Sami people to preserve and develop its language, culture and way of life\". The Sami Language Act went into effect in the 1990s. Sami is an official language of the municipalities of Kautokeino, Karasjok, Gáivuotna (Kåfjord), Nesseby, Porsanger, Tana, Tysfjord, Lavangen and Snåsa.\n\nIn Russia, Sami has no official status. Sami has been taught at the Murmansk University since 2012; before then, Sami was taught at the Institute of Peoples of the North (Институт народов севера) in Saint Petersburg (Leningrad).\n\nOn 1 April 2000, Sami became one of five recognized minority languages in Sweden. It can be used in dealing with public authorities in the municipalities of Arjeplog, Gällivare, Jokkmokk, and Kiruna. In 2011, this list was enlarged considerably. In Sweden the Umeå and Uppsala Universities have courses in North Sami, and Umeå University also teaches Ume Sami and South Sami.\n\nGeneral\n\n"}
{"id": "20687152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20687152", "title": "Sebastià Juan Arbó", "text": "Sebastià Juan Arbó\n\nSebastià Juan Arbó (; 1902 – 1984) was a Spanish novelist and playwright. He wrote in Catalan and Spanish. He was born in San Carlos de la Rapita on October 28, 1902 and died in Barcelona on January 2, 1984. His work includes novels, drama, biographies and translations. He was an honorary member of the Association of Writers in the Catalan Language. In 1948 he won the Premio Nadal (the Nadal Prize).\n\nBorn into a peasant family, at age eight Juan moved with his parents to Amposta, and at twelve and worked in an office. In 1927 he went to Barcelona, where he began his writing career as a journalist for \"La Vanguardia\" and \"ABC\", as well as on various editorials.\n\nIn 1931 Juan published his first novel, L'inútil combat (Useless battle).\n\nIn 1932 he published \"Terres de l'Ebre\", his best known work, a novel that describes the situation of the peasants of the Ebro delta, forgotten and humble, working in a hard and thankless land, subject to the fatalities. The novel transforms their personal and community experiences into fiction. In 1933 he published \"Notes d'un estudiant que va morir boig\" and in 1935 \"Boig Camins de nit\".\n\nAfter the Civil War he stopped publishing until, in 1947, he released \"Tino Costa\", with versions in Catalan and Spanish. In 1946 he had, however, published, a biography: \"Cervantes\".\n\nFrom 1948 he wrote works in Spanish such as \"Sobre las piedras grises\" (1948) which won the Nadal Prize for novel, and especially \"Martin Masks\" (1959). In his later years he returned to publishing in Catalan: \"Narracions d'Delta\" (1965), \"L'espera\" (1948) and \"La Masia\" (1975).\n\nJuan died on January 2, 1984 of a heart attack.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "725151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=725151", "title": "Sokna language", "text": "Sokna language\n\nSokna (also \"Sawknah\", \"Sukna\"; native name: Tasuknit) is a presumably extinct Eastern Berber language which was spoken in the town of Sokna (\"Isuknan\") and the village of Fuqaha in northeastern Fezzan in Libya. According to Václav Blažek (1999), Sokna was also spoken in the oasis of Tmessa.\n\nThe most extensive and recent materials on it are Sarnelli (1924) for Sokna and Paradisi (1963) for El-Fogaha. Both articles report that the language was spoken only by a handful of old people at the time, so it is generally presumed to be extinct.\n\nAikhenvald & Militarev (1984) and Blench (2006) consider Sokna and Fezzan to be separate languages. Blench lists Tmessa and Al-Foqaha as dialects of Fezzan.\n"}
{"id": "10593264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10593264", "title": "Therefore sign", "text": "Therefore sign\n\nIn logical argument and mathematical proof, the therefore sign (∴) is generally used before a logical consequence, such as the conclusion of a syllogism. The symbol consists of three dots placed in an upright triangle and is read \"therefore\". It is encoded at . For common use in Microsoft Office hold the ALT key and type \"8756\". While it is not generally used in formal writing, it is used in mathematics and shorthand. It is complementary to .\n\nAccording to Cajori, \"A History of Mathematical Notations,\" Johann Rahn used both the \"therefore\" and \"because\" signs to mean \"therefore\"; in the German edition of \"Teutsche Algebra\" (1659) the \"therefore\" sign was prevalent with the modern meaning, but in the 1668 English edition Rahn used the \"because\" sign more often to mean \"therefore\". Other authors in the eighteenth century also used three dots in a triangle shape to signify \"therefore,\" but as with Rahn, there wasn't much in the way of consistency as to how the triangle was oriented; \"because\" with its current meaning appears to have originated in the nineteenth century. In this century, the three-dot notation for therefore became very rare in continental Europe, but it remains popular in the British Isles.\n\nUsed in a syllogism:\n\nThe inverted form ∵, known as the because sign, is sometimes used as a shorthand form of \"because\". This is Unicode character U+2235 .\n\nThe \"therefore\" sign is sometimes used as a substitute for an asterism ⁂.\n\nIn meteorology, the therefore sign is used to indicate moderate rain on a station model; the asterism indicates moderate snow.\n\nTo denote logical implication or entailment, various signs are used in mathematical logic: →, ⇒, ⊃, ⊢, ⊨. These symbols are then part of a mathematical formula, and are not considered to be punctuation. In contrast, the therefore sign is traditionally used as a punctuation mark, and does not form part of a logical formula.\n\nThe graphically identical sign ∴ serves as a Japanese map symbol on the maps of the Geographical Survey Institute of Japan, indicating a tea plantation. On other maps the sign, often with thicker dots, is sometimes used to signal the presence of a national monument or ruins.\n\nThe character ஃ in the Tamil script represents the āytam, a special sound of the Tamil language.\n\nIn Norwegian and Danish, a similar symbol is used as an explanatory symbol (\"forklaringstegnet\"). It can be typeset using the open o followed by a colon, thus: ɔ:. It is used for the meaning \"namely\", \"id est\", \"scilicet\" or similar.\n\nIn Masonic traditions the symbol is used for abbreviation, instead of the usual period, essentially an initial or monogram continuing the meaning of \"therefore\", 'standing for' i.e. \"thus\" (latin \"sic\"). For example \"R∴W∴ John Smith\" is an abbreviation for \"Right Worshipful John Smith\" (the term Right Worshipful is an archaic title just as \"Land Lord\" is and indicates that Brother Smith is a Grand Lodge officer).\n\nBecause of the hard accessibility of the symbol in not specialized keyboards and fonts, and to prevent compatibility issues, it's often substituted by a colon followed by a period (\":.\") even if it's considered more elegant to use the original therefore character in printing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1315968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1315968", "title": "Treta Yuga", "text": "Treta Yuga\n\nTreta Yuga (Sanskrit: त्रेता युग) is the second out of the four yugas, or ages of mankind, in the religion of Hinduism. It follows the Satya Yuga and is followed by the Dvapara Yuga and Kali Yuga. Treta means 'a collection of three arousing things' in Sanskrit, and is so called because during the Treta Yuga, there were three Avatars of Vishnu that were seen, the sixth and seventh incarnations as Parashurama and Rama respectively. The name could also be derived from the fact that the Treta Yug lasted 3,600 divine years, or 1,296,000 human years. The bull of Dharma symbolises that mortality stood on three legs during this period. It had all four legs in the Satya Yuga and two in the succeeding Dvapara Yuga. Currently, in the immoral age of Kali, it stands on one leg.\n\nDuring the Treta Yuga, the power of humans diminishes slightly. Kings and Brahmins need to actively fulfill their desires instead of using mere fiat of will. People grow more materialistic and less inclined towards spirituality. Wars broke out frequently and climate changes became common place, giving rise to deserts and oceans.\n\nDespite these seemingly negative effects, the Treta Yuga also brought knowledge of universal magnetism. This knowledge allowed humans to understand the forces of nature and the true nature of the universe. Agriculture and mining came into existence along with norms and rules to keep society under control.\n\nVishnu incarnated as the Brahman Parashurama in this era because there were too many warlike Kshatriyas plaguing the Earth, and he therefore had to wipe out most of the world's warriors. However, some of the Kshatriyas survived or more were created, and their population grew again. Eventually, the avatara of Vishnu in Parashurama ended, though it is said that he continued to live on as a mighty warrior-hermit. He confronted Rama, angrily, years later, before acknowledging the latter's supremacy and retiring. He lived on in the Dvapara Yuga, having a great duel with Bhishma for the sake of Amba. However he failed to defeat him and stopped fighting after he was forbidden by the divine sage Narada and his ancestors and learning that Bhishma had surpassed him in art of warfare. He mentored Dronacharya, teacher of both the Kauravas and Pandavas. Parashurama also taught Karna how to use the \"Brahmastra\" but when he found out that Karna had lied about being a brahmana, he cursed Karna that his knowledge of the Brahmastra would fail him when he needed it the most. He is said to be still alive today, doing penance on the Mahendragiri mountain.\n\nThe hallmark of this era was the rise of evil in the form of the demon king of Sri Lanka, Ravana. He conquered the three worlds namely, Earth, Heaven and the Netherworld (Patala) and terrorized everyone. Even the Devas were subordinate to him - his son Meghanada had earned the title \"Indrajit\" by defeating Indra, the King of heaven in battle; and even the Sun had to obey the king. In this scenario, Lord Vishnu incarnated himself as the son of King Dasharatha of the Suryavamshis or Ikshvaku dynasty and was named Rama. Due to a stepmother's jealousy, Rama was sent away to a forest in exile for 14 years, during which time he confronted and killed Ravana for kidnapping his wife, and thus stored peace on earth. He is said to have afterwards established Rama-rajya or Rama's Kingdom over the entire earth from his throne at Ayodhya for 11,000 years, before eventually returning to his Mahavishnu form.\n\n"}
{"id": "22360666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22360666", "title": "Trygve Knudsen", "text": "Trygve Knudsen\n\nTrygve Knudsen (23 June 1897 – 18 January 1968) was a Norwegian philologist, linguist and lexicographer.\n\nKnudsen was born in Tønsberg as the son of lawyer Knud Peder Knudsen (1863–1937) and Henriette von Lachmann Mørck (1867–1923). He married Grethe Tønnessen in 1925.\n\nKnudsen finished his secondary education in Tønsberg 1916, and enrolled in philology at the University of Kristiania. He took the cand.philol. degree in 1923, and his thesis was issued as a book, titled \"P. A. Munch og samtidens norske målstræv\". Between 1925 and 1930 he worked as a University research fellow, and later as a teacher in Aker and Oslo. From 1935 he worked as a teacher at Oslo Cathedral School, until 1946, when he started lecturing at the University. He was appointed professor at the University of Oslo in 1954, and kept this position until he retired in 1967.\n\nKnudsen was co-editor of the dictionary \"Norsk Riksmålsordbok\" from 1925, together with Alf Sommerfelt, who had started the work in 1922. The first parts of the dictionary were published in 1930, and the dictionary work was completed in 1957. After publishing the dictionary, the editors started working on a supplementary volume. As Sommerfelt died in 1965, and Knudsen died in 1968, their work was completed by Harald Noreng, who also had been co-editor of volume four of the dictionary. The two supplementary volumes of \"Norsk Riksmålsordbok\" (labeled V and VI) were issued in 1995.\n\nKnudsen was co-editor of the magazine \"Maal og Minne\" from 1951. He wrote the book \"Gammelnorsk Homiliebok\" in 1952. He was chairman for the Norwegian Language Committee (\"Norsk Språknemnd\") from 1956 to 1957. He wrote articles on city dialects in general, and more specifically on dialects in Oslo and Tønsberg. He was a radio speaker, especially on the subject \"Norwegian language\", and he held guest lectures at the universities of Bergen, Lund, Uppsala and Göteborg. He was also a literary critic.\n\nKnudsen received an honorary degree at the University of Stockholm in 1960.\n"}
{"id": "763626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763626", "title": "Tuone Udaina", "text": "Tuone Udaina\n\nTuone Udaina (1823 – June 10, 1898; Antonio Udina in Italian) was the last person to have any active knowledge of the Dalmatian language, a Romance language that had evolved from Latin along the eastern coast of the Adriatic Sea.\n\nWhen Udaina was killed at 74 in an explosion during road work on June 10, 1898, the Dalmatian language is generally assumed to have become extinct.\n"}
{"id": "3503008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3503008", "title": "Turkish Wikipedia", "text": "Turkish Wikipedia\n\nThe Turkish Wikipedia (Turkish: \"\") is the Turkish language edition of Wikipedia, spelled \"Vikipedi\". Started in December 2002, as of 03 2018 this edition has and is the 30th largest Wikipedia edition.\n\nIn November 2006, the Turkish Wikipedia was nominated under the Science category for (Golden Spider Web Awards), which are commonly known as the \"Web Oscars\" for Turkey. In January 2007, the Turkish Wikipedia was given the award for \"Best Content\" in this competition. The award was given in a ceremony on 25 January 2007 at Istanbul Technical University.\n\nIn 2015, its banner drawing attention to the gender bias on Wikipedia drew the attention of Turkish media.\nOn 29 April 2017, the Turkish government blocked access to Wikipedia. While the reasons for the blockage are unrevealed, some believe that the encyclopedia has been blocked because the Turkish government is concerned about the appearance of articles critical of its actions regarding Turkey–ISIL cooperation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5077439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5077439", "title": "Ugly duckling theorem", "text": "Ugly duckling theorem\n\nThe Ugly Duckling theorem is an argument asserting that classification is impossible without some sort of bias. More particularly, it assumes finitely many properties combinable by logical connectives, and finitely many objects; it asserts that any two different objects share the same number of (extensional) properties. The theorem is named after Hans Christian Andersen's story \"The Ugly Duckling\", because it shows that a duckling is just as similar to a swan as two duckling are to each other. It was proposed by Satosi Watanabe in 1969.\n\nSuppose there are n things in the universe, and one wants to put them into classes or categories. One has no preconceived ideas or biases about what sorts of categories are \"natural\" or \"normal\" and what are not. So one has to consider all the possible classes that could be, all the possible ways of making sets out of the n objects. There are formula_1 such ways, the size of the power set of n objects. One can use that to measure the similarity between two objects: and one would see how many sets they have in common. However one can not. Any two objects have exactly the same number of classes in common if we can form any possible class, namely formula_2 (half the total number of classes there are). To see this is so, one may imagine each class is a represented by an n-bit string (or binary encoded integer), with a zero for each element not in the class and a one for each element in the class. As one finds, there are formula_1 such strings.\n\nAs all possible choices of zeros and ones are there, any two bit-positions will agree exactly half the time. One may pick two elements and reorder the bits so they are the first two, and imagine the numbers sorted lexicographically. The first formula_4 numbers will have bit #1 set to zero, and the second formula_4 will have it set to one. Within each of those blocks, the top formula_6 will have bit #2 set to zero and the other formula_6 will have it as one, so they agree on two blocks of formula_6 or on half of all the cases. No matter which two elements one picks. So if we have no preconceived bias about which categories are better, everything is then equally similar (or equally dissimilar). The number of predicates simultaneously satisfied by two non-identical elements is constant over all such pairs and is the same as the number of those satisfied by one. Thus, some kind of inductive bias is needed to make judgements; i.e. to prefer certain categories over others.\n\nLet formula_9 be a set of vectors of formula_10 booleans each. The ugly duckling is the vector which is least like the others. Given the booleans, this can be computed using Hamming distance.\n\nHowever, the choice of boolean features to consider could have been somewhat arbitrary. Perhaps there were features derivable from the original features that were important for identifying the ugly duckling. The set of booleans in the vector can be extended with new features computed as boolean functions of the formula_10 original features. The only canonical way to do this is to extend it with \"all\" possible Boolean functions. The resulting completed vectors have formula_12 features. The Ugly Duckling Theorem states that there is no ugly duckling because any two completed vectors will either be equal or differ in exactly half of the features.\n\nProof. Let x and y be two vectors. If they are the same, then their completed vectors must also be the same because any Boolean function of x will agree with the same Boolean function of y. If x and y are different, then there exists a coordinate formula_13 where the formula_13-th coordinate of formula_15 differs from the formula_13-th coordinate of formula_17. Now the completed features contain every Boolean function on formula_10 Boolean variables, with each one exactly once. Viewing these Boolean functions as polynomials in formula_10 variables over GF(2), segregate the functions into pairs formula_20 where formula_21 contains the formula_13-th coordinate as a linear term and formula_23 is formula_21 without that linear term. Now, for every such pair formula_20, formula_15 and formula_17 will agree on exactly one of the two functions. \nIf they agree on one, they must disagree on the other and vice versa. (This proof is believed to be due to Watanabe.)\n\n would be to introduce a constraint on how similarity is measured by limiting the properties involved in classification, say between A and B. However Medin et al. (1993) point out that this does not actually resolve the arbitrariness or bias problem since in what respects A is similar to B: “varies with the stimulus context and task, so that there is no unique answer, to the question of how similar is one object to another”. For example, \"a barberpole and a zebra would be more similar than a horse and a zebra if the feature \"striped\" had sufficient weight. Of course, if these feature weights were fixed, then these similarity relations would be constrained\". Yet the property \"striped\" as a weight 'fix' or constraint is arbitrary itself, meaning: \"unless one can specify such criteria, then the claim that categorization is based on attribute matching is almost entirely vacuous\".\n\nStamos (2003) has attempted to solve the Ugly Ducking Theorem by showing some judgments of overall similarity are non-arbitrary in the sense they are useful:\n\nUnless some properties are considered more salient, or ‘weighted’ more important than others, everything will appear equally similar, hence Watanabe (1986) wrote: “any objects, in so far as they are distinguishable, are equally similar\". \nIn a weaker setting that assumes infinitely many properties, Murphy and Medin (1985) give an example of two putative classified things, plums and lawnmowers:\n\n"}
{"id": "37336926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37336926", "title": "Uma’ Lasan language", "text": "Uma’ Lasan language\n\nUma’ Lasan (Western Kenyah) is a Kayan language of Borneo. Uma’ Lung is marginally intelligible with the other varieties.\n"}
{"id": "1611824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1611824", "title": "Yitzkhok Yoel Linetzky", "text": "Yitzkhok Yoel Linetzky\n\nYitzkhok Yoel Linetzky (1839–1915) was a Yiddish language author and early Zionist. Sol Liptzin characterized him as \"a master of the picturesque vitriolic phrase.\" [Liptzin, 1972, 46]\n\nHe was raised a Hasidic Jew in Vinnytsia, Podolia (now in Ukraine), but revolted against his violent schoolteachers and cabalist father by aligning himself with the Haskalah, the Jewish Enlightenment. His father tried to offset this development by marrying him at the age of fourteen to a twelve-year-old girl; he drew her away from Hasidism and Kaballah, and his father forced him to divorce and remarry, this time to what Liptzin describes as \"a deaf, moronic woman\".\n\nLinetzky ran away to Odessa, Ukraine, where he acquired a secular education. Attempting to leave for Germany to continue his education, he was stopped at the border and brought back, a virtual prisoner, to Vinitza. At 23, he managed again to escape, this time to the government-sponsored rabbinical academy at Zhytomyr, where he developed a close friendship with Abraham Goldfaden.\n\nLike Goldfaden and several other Yiddish-language writers of his generation, he came to prominence in the 1860s as a writer for \"Kol Mevasser\"; like several others, he had first published in its Hebrew language sister publication \"Hamelitz\". With Goldfaden, he was later involved in several Yiddish language newspapers, including as joint editors of the short-lived weekly \"Yisrolik\" (July 1875–February 1876) almost immediately before Goldfaden founded the first professional Yiddish theater troupe.\n\nThe pogroms following the 1881 assassination of Czar Alexander II of Russia made Linetzky into an early Zionist. His 1882 booklet \"America or Israel\" aligned him with the Hovevei Zion movement, active in the Jewish colonization of Palestine.\n\nHis semi-autobiographical picaresque novel, \"Dos Polishe Yingel\" (\"The Polish Lad\"), an outright attack on the Hasidim, first appeared in installments in \"Kol Mevasser\" in 1867, and remained popular at least until the eve of World War II.\n\nOther works included a book of poems \"Der Beyzer Marshalik\" (\"The Angry Master of Ceremonies\", 1879).\n\n"}
