{"id": "45110494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45110494", "title": "1996 in Estonia", "text": "1996 in Estonia\n\nThis article lists events that occurred during 1996 in Estonia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22731277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22731277", "title": "2009 Guinea mine collapse", "text": "2009 Guinea mine collapse\n\nIn the 2009 Guinea mine collapse in May 2009, a cave-in at a gold mine in Siguiri, Guinea, killed 20 people, injured five and left ten missing.\n"}
{"id": "54932822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54932822", "title": "5 @Home", "text": "5 @Home\n\n5 @Home sometimes 5 at Home is a Ugandan drama television series starring Raymond Rushabiro, Tumusiime Nicole, Jovan Lugave, Alen Komujuni and Arinaitwe Ramadhan that premiered on Fox Life in July 2017.\n\nHenry Muwonge, the patriarch of the modern African Muwonge family loses his government job after national elections and is forced to downgrade his family. It's hard for the family members to get used to living on a limited budget.\nThe series is a production of Fasttrack Productions. It was initially meant for NTV but production was halted for years citing production costs. It was first released on YouTube on 14 July 2015 and later picked up by Fox Life.\n\n"}
{"id": "1521667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1521667", "title": "Aatxe", "text": "Aatxe\n\nAatxe () is a spirit in the folk mythology of the Basque people. His name is literally translated as \"Young Bull\", and he is sometimes known as Etsai. He is a cave-dwelling spirit who adopts the form of a young red bull, but being a shapeshifter, sometimes takes the shape of a man. At night, more so in stormy weather, he arises from the hollow which is his lair. He attacks criminals and other malevolent people. He also protects people by making them stay home when danger is near.\n\nHe is theorized to be a representative of the goddess Mari, or may be an enforcer of her will, punishing people who cheat her. Another name for him is Aatxegorri which means \"young red bull\". It is believed Aatxe inhabited caves and hollows; in many (Isturits, Sare, Errenteria, among others) engravings and paintings depicting aurochs, bulls, and oxen have been found; which implies that this Basque myth has its origins in the Paleolithic.\n\nAatxe is used as the name of horned shadow monsters in the Guild Wars franchise.\n\nOn 12 December 2014, Aatxes were added to the popular smartphone game Disco Zoo.\n\nIn the upcoming webcomic \"Sparrow,\" one of the main characters, called the Red Horn, is an Aatxe.\n\nIn the 1982 film The Last Unicorn, a monster called The Red Bull appears to have many similarities to the Aatxe. Such similarities include dwelling in a cave, and only emerging from his lair at night. He is also described as a ghost by the character Prince Lir.\n"}
{"id": "33570340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33570340", "title": "Al Muqbali", "text": "Al Muqbali\n\nAl Muqbali is one of the Arab tribes in the Arabian Peninsula. It is known for courage, generosity and nobility, and for poets known using Baldzer Arabic.\n"}
{"id": "48394935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48394935", "title": "Alliance of Democratic Forces", "text": "Alliance of Democratic Forces\n\nThe Alliance of Democratic Forces (, AFD) is a political alliance in Ivory Coast led by the Ivorian Popular Front (FPI).\n\nThe alliance was established on 26 March 2014 in order to contest the 2015 presidential elections, succeeding the National Congress of Resistance for Democracy. It was formed by 12 parties: the FPI, the Ivorian Workers' Party, the Rally for Peace, Progress and Participation, the Ivorian Alliance for the Republic and Democracy, the Ivorian Congress for Development and Peace, the New Alliance of Ivory Coast for the Homeland, the Rally for Democracy and Peace, the Union of Democrats for Progress, the Union for Total Democracy in Ivory Coast, the Republican Union for Democracy, the Union of New Generations and the Party for Ivory Coast.\n\nThe alliance nominated Pascal Affi N'Guessan of the FPI as its candidate for the presidential elections. He finished second with 9% of the vote as incumbent President Alassane Ouattara was re-elected with 84% of the vote.\n"}
{"id": "35573028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35573028", "title": "Anglo-Belarusian Society", "text": "Anglo-Belarusian Society\n\nOriginally the Anglo-Belarusian Society (Belarusian: Англа-беларускае таварыства) was a part of the Association of Belarusians in Great Britain. Because of the growing interest of the British public in Belarus and Belarusians, it was established as a separate organisation on 16 March 1954. The society's object is diffusion, interchange and publication of knowledge relating to the Belarusian people, their land, history and culture. \n\nThe first president of the Anglo-Belarusian Society was William David Ormsby-Gore. A long-serving President of the Society was Frances Ward (Lady Phipps), wife of Eric Phipps. Another woman who was actively involved in Anglo-Belarusian Society was Katharine Macmillan, a vice-chairman of the Conservative Party in 1968. She served first as the organisation's Vice President and then President. \n\nDespite its \"Anglo-\" label, the society was not intended to exclude Scotland, Wales and other parts of the UK. Among the early cultural activities of the society was the publication of a regular pamphlet on Belarus and the organisation of concerts of Belarusian church chants, folk songs and dances in Westminster Cathedral Hall in 1950s. \n\nSince 1965 the society has been publishing the \"Journal of Belarusian Studies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52759450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52759450", "title": "Apostolic Nunciature to Savoy", "text": "Apostolic Nunciature to Savoy\n\nThe Apostolic Nunciature to Savoy was an ecclesiastical office of the Catholic Church to the Duchy of Savoy, Italy. It was a diplomatic post of the Holy See, whose representative is called the Apostolic Nuncio with the rank of an ambassador. The office ceased to exist in 1795 soon after the Duchy of Savoy was occupied by French revolutionary forces in 1792 after the French Revolution .\n"}
{"id": "16368172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16368172", "title": "Arch 22", "text": "Arch 22\n\nArch 22 is a commemorative arch on the road into Banjul in the Gambia. It was built in 1996 to mark the military coup d'état of July 22, 1994, through which Yahya Jammeh and his Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council overthrew the democratically elected Gambian government.\n\nThe Arch stands on the Banjul-Serrekunda Highway, near the traffic island at the intersection with Box Bar Road, Independence Drive, and Marina Parade. A statue of the \"unknown soldier\" can be seen near the base of the arch: the soldier has a rifle strapped to his back and carries a baby in one hand while signaling victory (making a V-sign) with the other.\n\nArch 22 is depicted on the back of the 100-dalasis banknote.\n\nThe Arch was designed by Senegalese architect Pierre Goudiaby, who also designed the Yundum International Airport at Banjul and the African Renaissance Monument in Dakar, Senegal.\n\nAt 35 metres, the Arch is one of the tallest structures in the Gambia. The building stands on eight columns and has three floors. Access to the upper floors can be made through several elevators and spiral cases.\n\nThe first floor is at an intermediate level in the columns. The gallery on the second floor provides an impressive panorama of the city, with the view extending down to the sea port of Banjul and the mangrove forests of Tanbi Wetland Complex. On the top floor is a small textile museum.\n\nBecause the stability of the construction is in doubt, the Arch has been closed to traffic.\n"}
{"id": "24946108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24946108", "title": "Asia Petrochemical Industry Conference", "text": "Asia Petrochemical Industry Conference\n\nThe Asia Petrochemical Industry Conference (APIC) is an annual, international conference within the petrochemical industry intended to \"spur mutual friendship and goodwill\" within the industry with an aim to encouraging its \"sound development\". Known at its 1979 founding as the East Asia Petrochemical Industry Conference, it was a combined project of industry associations within Japan, Korea and Taiwan, which northern Asian nations alternated hosting duties. In 2000, the conference was retitled to its current name when India, Malaysia and Singapore entered the hosting rotation. Thailand is also currently among the conference's hosts. The 2009 conference hosted in Seoul was attended by over 850 officials from 28 countries. The 2010 conference was held on 13 and 14 May in Mumbai and attended by over 1400 delegates from 40 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "3793264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3793264", "title": "Association des Scouts de Djibouti", "text": "Association des Scouts de Djibouti\n\nThe Association des Scouts de Djibouti (; ASD, \"Scout Association of Djibouti\") is the national Scouting organization of Djibouti. \n\nDjibouti is one of 29 countries where Scouting exists but where there is no National Scout Organization which is a member of the World Organization of the Scout Movement at the present time, and no organization was ever recognized by WOSM during the nation's periods of Scouting history.\n\nScouting in Djibouti was first served by overseas units of the Scouts de France, a French Scouting organization, even after the independence of the country, for French expatriates stationed in Djibouti in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The meeting hall was the ambassador's house, which was guarded by the French military.\n\nThe Association des Scouts de Djibouti was founded on May 23, 1985. Two postage stamps and a First day cover were issued on that occasion. After a period of growth, Scouting nearly disappeared in Djibouti. Activities were restarted with Leadership Training courses in 2008.\n\nThe Scout Motto is \"Kun Musta'idan\" or كن مستعدين, translating as \"Be Prepared\" in Arabic and \"Sois Prêt\", translating as \"Be Prepared\" in French. The noun for a single Scout is \"Kashaf\" or كشاف in Arabic.\n\nThe French Association des Guides et Scouts d'Europe (affiliated to the Union Internationale des Guides et Scouts d'Europe) maintains a Scout unit in Djibouti.\n"}
{"id": "1850105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850105", "title": "Austropop", "text": "Austropop\n\nAustropop is pop music from Austria, which came into use in the late 1960s, but had its heyday in the 1970s and early and up until the mid 1980s. Austropop comprises several musical styles, from traditional pop music to rock, and it also sometimes includes traditional folk elements such as yodeling.\n\nNeue Deutsche Welle does not count as Austropop, as it was definitely German and the lyrics were in Standard German, while Austropop artists made a distinction by decidedly using Austrian dialects for their lyrics.\n\nThe movement is believed to have started in 1971 by Wolfgang Ambros with his song \"Da Hofa\", although this is debated. Ambros became famous, however, by translating songs by Bob Dylan into Austrian German, the most famous of which is \"\"Naa, i bins ned\",\" the translation of Dylan's \"\"It Ain't Me Babe\".\"\n\nAustropop is still broadcast by various FM radio and TV stations throughout Austria and Bavaria, where they even have special nights replaying Austropop concerts.\n\nArtists of the Austropop movement include:\n"}
{"id": "15304295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15304295", "title": "Boom Boom Radio", "text": "Boom Boom Radio\n\nRadio Tirana Klasik, formerly known as Boom Boom Radio (101.2 FM), is a classical music oriented radio station based in Tirana County, Albania, and is owned by Albania's public broadcaster RTSH.\n\n"}
{"id": "29543016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29543016", "title": "Coffee Strong", "text": "Coffee Strong\n\nCoffee Strong is a GI coffeehouse based on the tradition of resistance coffee houses opened during the Vietnam war by antiwar veterans and active duty soldiers. Based in Lakewood, WA it was founded in 2008 by veterans returning from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. It is located within 300 meters of the gates at Joint Base Lewis-McChord. It is one of three currently active GI resistance coffee houses along with Under the Hood Café near Fort Hood in Texas & Norfolk Offbase in Norfolk, Virginia. According to Coffee Strong board member Zoltan Grossman The goal of the G.I. coffeehouse is to provide soldiers, their families and recent vets a place away from the base where they can learn about resources available to them, meet with G.I. rights counselors, and access alternative information. It holds weekly movie nights, and hosts speakers, hiphop, punk and folk concerts, and other events. The response from soldiers visiting the coffeehouse has so far been overwhelmingly positive. \nThe Coffee Strong advisory board includes linguist and dissident Noam Chomsky, Marjorie Cohn, Mike Ferner, Eva Golinger, Dahr Jamail, Antonia Juhasz, Col. Ann Wright (Ret.), and the late historian and author Howard Zinn. In 2011 filmmaker and professor of Folklore and English at the University of Oregon Lisa Gilman released the film \"Grounds for Resistance\" about Coffee Strong and featured interviews by some of its founders and reactions to it from Joint Base Lewis-McChord soldiers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1305080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1305080", "title": "Conseil d'État (Switzerland)", "text": "Conseil d'État (Switzerland)\n\nIn Switzerland, Conseil d'État is the name of the council constituting the cantonal government of French-speaking cantons. It is not to be confused with the \"Conseil des États\" (or Council of \"States\") which is a chamber of the Swiss parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "41898707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41898707", "title": "Contract (2012 film)", "text": "Contract (2012 film)\n\nContract is a 2012 Ghanaian film produced by Yvonne Okoro and directed by Shirley Frimpong-Manso, starring Hlomla Dandala, Joseph Benjamin and Yvonne Okoro. It received six nominations at the 9th Africa Movie Academy Awards including: \"Best Director\", \"Achievement In Screenplay\", \"Best Actor In A Leading Role\" and \"Best Actress In A Leading Role\".\n\n\n360nobs rated the movie 6.5 out of 10, and commented that the movie is exciting.\n"}
{"id": "41389147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41389147", "title": "Corruption in Austria", "text": "Corruption in Austria\n\nAustria has a well-developed institutional and legal system, and most corruption cases under investigation by a parliamentary committee end with judicial trials and effective judgments. However, there are several significant Austrian corruption cases which have taken place during the past decade involving land and regional officials, high-level public officials, the central government and, in one instance, the former Chancellor.\n\nIn most cases, corrupt practices were related to conflicts of interest, abuse of office, money laundering and influence peddling. The corruption scandals have put into doubt the ethical standards of the political elite. This doubt is reflected in the findings of Eurobarometer 2012, where two-thirds of respondents perceive national politicians to be corrupt and also the most corrupt institution in Austria.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 16th place out of 180 \n\nAccording to several sources, corruption is not considered a problem for doing business in Austria. According to Investment Climate Report 2013 by the US Department of State 2013, corruption is not considered as a serious problem impeding business in Austria. The World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014 notes that it is uncommon for companies to make irregular payments or bribes connected with imports and exports, public utilities, annual tax payments, and awarding of public contracts and licenses. Moreover, corruption is ranked as the twelfth most problematic factor for doing business in Austria.\n\nAccording to the Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014, favouritism among government officials towards well-connected companies and individuals is a competitive disadvantage for the country. According to Identifying and Reducing Corruption in Public Procurement in the EU 2013, officials involved in public procurement lack effective corruption screening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36243150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36243150", "title": "Danish–Icelandic Trade Monopoly", "text": "Danish–Icelandic Trade Monopoly\n\nThe Danish–Icelandic Trade Monopoly (Icelandic: \"Einokunarverslunin\") was the monopoly on trade held by Danish merchants in Iceland in the 17th and 18th centuries. Iceland was during this period a territory controlled by the Danish Crown. The origins of the monopoly may be traced to the mercantilist policies of Denmark, and its aim was to support Danish merchants and Danish trade against the Hanseatic League of Hamburg, increasing the power of the King of Denmark in Iceland.\n\nThe monopoly was enacted by a set of laws passed in 1602 and lasted until 1786. Trade took place in 20 (later 25) designated trading posts, according to a fixed rate of prices determined by the king. The merchants divided the trading posts between themselves in exchange for a fixed rent. The Westman Islands were rented at a higher price. Danish merchants were forbidden to participate in economic activities in the country other than trade until 1777.\n\nFrom 1602 until 1619, the trading monopoly was tied to the Danish cities of Copenhagen, Malmö (now in Sweden) and Helsingør. From 1620, trade was limited to Copenhagen exclusively.\n\n"}
{"id": "43244690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43244690", "title": "Direction générale de la statistique et des études économiques", "text": "Direction générale de la statistique et des études économiques\n\nThe Direction générale de la statistique et des études économique (DGSEE) is the official statistical service of Gabon, established in its current form in 1976. Its activities are organized within the broader framework of the statistical system of Gabon.\nThe DGSEE is a branch of the central government under the authority of the Minister responsible for Statistics. On 31 May 1983, its powers and organization were identified by a decree. Very generally, DGSEE is responsible for ensuring the technical coordination of the national statistical system and to disseminate statistical data for the purposes of the government, private sector, development partners and the public. Affiliated with Afristat, since 2009 it has been led by Francis Thierry Tiwinot.\n\n"}
{"id": "13316665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13316665", "title": "Dmitri Pavlichenko", "text": "Dmitri Pavlichenko\n\nDmitri Valeriyevich Pavlichenko (, ; alternative spellings: \"Dmitry, Dzmitry, Dzmitri, Vasilyevich, Pavliuchenko, Pawliuchenka\", born 1966 in Vitebsk) is head of the Belarusian Special Rapid Reaction Unit (SOBR).\n\nIn February 2004, Christos Pourgourides of the Council of Europe's Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights reported concerns suggesting that Dmitri Pavlichenko, along with other \"senior officials of the State\" had been involved in the assassination of several people, including senior politicians.\n\nHe stated that the Chief of the Criminal Police of Belarus, General Lapatik, in a handwritten note on November 21, 2000, accused Dmitri Pavlichenko of assassinating Jury Zacharanka, a former Minister of the Interior who disappeared on May 7, 1999, with a PB pistol, normally used for carrying out the death penalty at SIZO-1 prison, officially signed out from SIZO-1 on the orders of the Minister of the Interior, Sivakov. He also stated suspicions that Pavlichenko was involved in the disappearances of Victor Gonchar, Vice-President of the Parliament of Belarus and businessman Anatoly Krasovski on September 16, 1999.\n\nPavlichenko was arrested on November 22, 2000. According to Pourgourides' report, the warrant stated (translation) \n\nWhile the warrant stated that the detention would be for 30 days, Pavlichenko was released a few days later, either on November 23 (according to Prosecutor General Viktor Sheyman, who became Prosecutor General on November 27) or on November 27 (according to Colonel Oleg Alkayev, head of SIZO-1 at the time, who later was accepted for political asylum in Germany). Pourgourides states that the Zakharenko family's lawyer, Volchek, stated that President Alexander Lukashenko had personally ordered Pavlichenko's release from prison. He also states that the Minister of Agriculture, Leonov, had personally told him that Lukashenko had \"violently criticised the KGB for arresting Pavlichenko\" on television. \n\nThe Governing Council of the Inter-Parliamentary Union has expressed its concern about these allegations and Pavlichenko is now subject to international financial sanctions among with several other Belarusian senior officials and politicians.\n"}
{"id": "34956504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34956504", "title": "Drought in Afghanistan", "text": "Drought in Afghanistan\n\nThere have been several seasons of drought in Afghanistan in recent decades. According to an analysis of climate and drought records Asia Development Bank, localized droughts have a periodicity of three to five years, and droughts covering large areas recur every 9-11 years. South and central areas are more affected from July through September. \nAfghanistan began experiencing unusual droughts beginning in 1995, right after the Taliban emerged. It remained this way until heavy snow began falling in the 2002-2003 winter season, after the new Karzai administration took over. This relief did not last long as the country began to see more droughts in the coming years.\n\nDrought combined with conflict has created internally displaced populations that are living in extremely poor conditions. Many communities continue to depend on meager incomes derived by migrating outside their farmlands. Inadequate rains and snowfall during 2008 to 2010 in parts of Afghanistan caused significant failure of the rain-fed crops in the country's six provinces: Herat, Jawzjan, Balkh, Badghis, Faryab and Sar-e-Pul. The situation affected the most vulnerable populations and their access to food and water, reducing communities' health and nutrition status. However, in 2012 Afghanistan's long drought has ended due to heavy snow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9316", "title": "England", "text": "England\n\nEngland is a country that is part of the United Kingdom. It shares land borders with Scotland to the north and Wales to the west. The Irish Sea lies northwest of England and the Celtic Sea lies to the southwest. England is separated from continental Europe by the North Sea to the east and the English Channel to the south. The country covers five-eighths of the island of Great Britain, which lies in the North Atlantic, and includes over 100 smaller islands, such as the Isles of Scilly and the Isle of Wight.\n\nThe area now called England was first inhabited by modern humans during the Upper Palaeolithic period, but takes its name from the Angles, a Germanic tribe deriving its name from the Anglia peninsula, who settled during the 5th and 6th centuries. England became a unified state in the 10th century, and since the Age of Discovery, which began during the 15th century, has had a significant cultural and legal impact on the wider world. The English language, the Anglican Church, and English law – the basis for the common law legal systems of many other countries around the world – developed in England, and the country's parliamentary system of government has been widely adopted by other nations. The Industrial Revolution began in 18th-century England, transforming its society into the world's first industrialised nation.\n\nEngland's terrain is chiefly low hills and plains, especially in central and southern England. However, there is upland and mountainous terrain in the north (for example, the Lake District and Pennines) and in the west (for example, Dartmoor and the Shropshire Hills). The capital is London, which has the largest metropolitan area in both the United Kingdom and the European Union. England's population of over 55 million comprises 84% of the population of the United Kingdom, largely concentrated around London, the South East, and conurbations in the Midlands, the North West, the North East, and Yorkshire, which each developed as major industrial regions during the 19th century.\n\nThe Kingdom of England – which after 1535 included Wales – ceased being a separate sovereign state on 1 May 1707, when the Acts of Union put into effect the terms agreed in the Treaty of Union the previous year, resulting in a political union with the Kingdom of Scotland to create the Kingdom of Great Britain. In 1801, Great Britain was united with the Kingdom of Ireland (through another Act of Union) to become the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. In 1922 the Irish Free State seceded from the United Kingdom, leading to the latter being renamed the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.\n\nThe name \"England\" is derived from the Old English name \"Englaland\", which means \"land of the Angles\". The Angles were one of the Germanic tribes that settled in Great Britain during the Early Middle Ages. The Angles came from the Anglia peninsula in the Bay of Kiel area (present-day German state of Schleswig–Holstein) of the Baltic Sea. The earliest recorded use of the term, as \"Engla londe\", is in the late-ninth-century translation into Old English of Bede's \"Ecclesiastical History of the English People\". The term was then used in a different sense to the modern one, meaning \"the land inhabited by the English\", and it included English people in what is now south-east Scotland but was then part of the English kingdom of Northumbria. The \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" recorded that the Domesday Book of 1086 covered the whole of England, meaning the English kingdom, but a few years later the \"Chronicle\" stated that King Malcolm III went \"out of Scotlande into Lothian in Englaland\", thus using it in the more ancient sense. According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", its modern spelling was first used in 1538.\n\nThe earliest attested reference to the Angles occurs in the 1st-century work by Tacitus, \"Germania\", in which the Latin word \"Anglii\" is used. The etymology of the tribal name itself is disputed by scholars; it has been suggested that it derives from the shape of the Angeln peninsula, an \"angular\" shape. How and why a term derived from the name of a tribe that was less significant than others, such as the Saxons, came to be used for the entire country and its people is not known, but it seems this is related to the custom of calling the Germanic people in Britain \"Angli Saxones\" or English Saxons to distinguish them from continental Saxons (Eald-Seaxe) of Old Saxony between Weser and Eider rivers in Northern Germany. In Scottish Gaelic, another language which developed on the island of Great Britain, the Saxon tribe gave their name to the word for England (\"Sasunn\"); similarly, the Welsh name for the English language is \"Saesneg\".\n\nAn alternative name for England is Albion. The name \"Albion\" originally referred to the entire island of Great Britain. The nominally earliest record of the name appears in the Aristotelian Corpus, specifically the 4th-century BC \"De Mundo\": \"Beyond the Pillars of Hercules is the ocean that flows round the earth. In it are two very large islands called Britannia; these are Albion and Ierne\". But modern scholarly consensus ascribes \"De Mundo\" not to Aristotle but to Pseudo-Aristotle, i.e. it was written later in the Graeco-Roman period or afterwards. The word \"Albion\" (Ἀλβίων) or \"insula Albionum\" has two possible origins. It either derives from a cognate of the Latin \"albus\" meaning white, a reference to the white cliffs of Dover (the only part of Britain visible from the European mainland) or from the phrase the \"island of the \"Albiones\"\" in the now lost \"Massaliote Periplus\", that is attested through Avienus' \"Ora Maritima\" to which the former presumably served as a source. \"Albion\" is now applied to England in a more poetic capacity. Another romantic name for England is Loegria, related to the Welsh word for England, \"Lloegr\", and made popular by its use in Arthurian legend.\n\nThe earliest known evidence of human presence in the area now known as England was that of \"Homo antecessor\", dating to approximately 780,000 years ago. The oldest proto-human bones discovered in England date from 500,000 years ago. Modern humans are known to have inhabited the area during the Upper Paleolithic period, though permanent settlements were only established within the last 6,000 years.\nAfter the last ice age only large mammals such as mammoths, bison and woolly rhinoceros remained. Roughly 11,000 years ago, when the ice sheets began to recede, humans repopulated the area; genetic research suggests they came from the northern part of the Iberian Peninsula. The sea level was lower than now and Britain was connected by land bridge to Ireland and Eurasia.\nAs the seas rose, it was separated from Ireland 10,000 years ago and from Eurasia two millennia later.\n\nThe Beaker culture arrived around 2,500 BC, introducing drinking and food vessels constructed from clay, as well as vessels used as reduction pots to smelt copper ores. It was during this time that major Neolithic monuments such as Stonehenge and Avebury were constructed. By heating together tin and copper, which were in abundance in the area, the Beaker culture people made bronze, and later iron from iron ores. The development of iron smelting allowed the construction of better ploughs, advancing agriculture (for instance, with Celtic fields), as well as the production of more effective weapons.\n\nDuring the Iron Age, Celtic culture, deriving from the Hallstatt and La Tène cultures, arrived from Central Europe. Brythonic was the spoken language during this time. Society was tribal; according to Ptolemy's \"Geographia\" there were around 20 tribes in the area. Earlier divisions are unknown because the Britons were not literate. Like other regions on the edge of the Empire, Britain had long enjoyed trading links with the Romans. Julius Caesar of the Roman Republic attempted to invade twice in 55 BC; although largely unsuccessful, he managed to set up a client king from the Trinovantes.\n\nThe Romans invaded Britain in 43 AD during the reign of Emperor Claudius, subsequently conquering much of Britain, and the area was incorporated into the Roman Empire as Britannia province. The best-known of the native tribes who attempted to resist were the Catuvellauni led by Caratacus. Later, an uprising led by Boudica, Queen of the Iceni, ended with Boudica's suicide following her defeat at the Battle of Watling Street. This era saw a Greco-Roman culture prevail with the introduction of Roman law, Roman architecture, aqueducts, sewers, many agricultural items and silk. In the 3rd century, Emperor Septimius Severus died at Eboracum (now York), where Constantine was subsequently proclaimed emperor.\n\nThere is debate about when Christianity was first introduced; it was no later than the 4th century, probably much earlier. According to Bede, missionaries were sent from Rome by Eleutherius at the request of the chieftain Lucius of Britain in 180 AD, to settle differences as to Eastern and Western ceremonials, which were disturbing the church. There are traditions linked to Glastonbury claiming an introduction through Joseph of Arimathea, while others claim through Lucius of Britain. By 410, during the Decline of the Roman Empire, Britain was left exposed by the end of Roman rule in Britain and the withdrawal of Roman army units, to defend the frontiers in continental Europe and partake in civil wars. Celtic Christian monastic and missionary movements flourished: Patrick (5th-century Ireland) and in the 6th century Brendan (Clonfert), Comgall (Bangor), David (Wales), Aiden (Lindisfarne) and Columba (Iona). This period of Christianity was influenced by ancient Celtic culture in its sensibilities, polity, practices and theology. Local \"congregations\" were centred in the monastic community and monastic leaders were more like chieftains, as peers, rather than in the more hierarchical system of the Roman-dominated church.\nRoman military withdrawals left Britain open to invasion by pagan, seafaring warriors from north-western continental Europe, chiefly the Saxons, Angles, Jutes and Frisians who had long raided the coasts of the Roman province and began to settle, initially in the eastern part of the country. Their advance was contained for some decades after the Britons' victory at the Battle of Mount Badon, but subsequently resumed, over-running the fertile lowlands of Britain and reducing the area under Brythonic control to a series of separate enclaves in the more rugged country to the west by the end of the 6th century. Contemporary texts describing this period are extremely scarce, giving rise to its description as a Dark Age. The nature and progression of the Anglo-Saxon settlement of Britain is consequently subject to considerable disagreement. Roman-dominated Christianity had, in general, disappeared from the conquered territories, but was reintroduced by missionaries from Rome led by Augustine from 597 onwards. Disputes between the Roman- and Celtic-dominated forms of Christianity ended in victory for the Roman tradition at the Council of Whitby (664), which was ostensibly about haircuts and the date of Easter, but more significantly, about the differences in Roman and Celtic forms of authority, theology, and practice (Lehane).\n\nDuring the settlement period the lands ruled by the incomers seem to have been fragmented into numerous tribal territories, but by the 7th century, when substantial evidence of the situation again becomes available, these had coalesced into roughly a dozen kingdoms including Northumbria, Mercia, Wessex, East Anglia, Essex, Kent and Sussex. Over the following centuries, this process of political consolidation continued. The 7th century saw a struggle for hegemony between Northumbria and Mercia, which in the 8th century gave way to Mercian preeminence. In the early 9th century Mercia was displaced as the foremost kingdom by Wessex. Later in that century escalating attacks by the Danes culminated in the conquest of the north and east of England, overthrowing the kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia and East Anglia. Wessex under Alfred the Great was left as the only surviving English kingdom, and under his successors, it steadily expanded at the expense of the kingdoms of the Danelaw. This brought about the political unification of England, first accomplished under Æthelstan in 927 and definitively established after further conflicts by Eadred in 953. A fresh wave of Scandinavian attacks from the late 10th century ended with the conquest of this united kingdom by Sweyn Forkbeard in 1013 and again by his son Cnut in 1016, turning it into the centre of a short-lived North Sea Empire that also included Denmark and Norway. However, the native royal dynasty was restored with the accession of Edward the Confessor in 1042.\nA dispute over the succession to Edward led to the Norman conquest of England in 1066, accomplished by an army led by Duke William of Normandy. The Normans themselves originated from Scandinavia and had settled in Normandy in the late 9th and early 10th centuries. This conquest led to the almost total dispossession of the English elite and its replacement by a new French-speaking aristocracy, whose speech had a profound and permanent effect on the English language.\n\nSubsequently, the House of Plantagenet from Anjou inherited the English throne under Henry II, adding England to the budding Angevin Empire of fiefs the family had inherited in France including Aquitaine. They reigned for three centuries, some noted monarchs being Richard I, Edward I, Edward III and Henry V. The period saw changes in trade and legislation, including the signing of the \"Magna Carta\", an English legal charter used to limit the sovereign's powers by law and protect the privileges of freemen. Catholic monasticism flourished, providing philosophers, and the universities of Oxford and Cambridge were founded with royal patronage. The Principality of Wales became a Plantagenet fief during the 13th century and the Lordship of Ireland was given to the English monarchy by the Pope.\n\nDuring the 14th century, the Plantagenets and the House of Valois both claimed to be legitimate claimants to the House of Capet and with it France; the two powers clashed in the Hundred Years' War. The Black Death epidemic hit England; starting in 1348, it eventually killed up to half of England's inhabitants. From 1453 to 1487 civil war occurred between two branches of the royal family – the Yorkists and Lancastrians – known as the Wars of the Roses. Eventually it led to the Yorkists losing the throne entirely to a Welsh noble family the Tudors, a branch of the Lancastrians headed by Henry Tudor who invaded with Welsh and Breton mercenaries, gaining victory at the Battle of Bosworth Field where the Yorkist king Richard III was killed.\n\nDuring the Tudor period, the Renaissance reached England through Italian courtiers, who reintroduced artistic, educational and scholarly debate from classical antiquity. England began to develop naval skills, and exploration to the West intensified.\n\nHenry VIII broke from communion with the Catholic Church, over issues relating to his divorce, under the Acts of Supremacy in 1534 which proclaimed the monarch head of the Church of England. In contrast with much of European Protestantism, the roots of the split were more political than theological. He also legally incorporated his ancestral land Wales into the Kingdom of England with the 1535–1542 acts. There were internal religious conflicts during the reigns of Henry's daughters, Mary I and Elizabeth I. The former took the country back to Catholicism while the latter broke from it again, forcefully asserting the supremacy of Anglicanism.\n\nCompeting with Spain, the first English colony in the Americas was founded in 1585 by explorer Walter Raleigh in Virginia and named Roanoke. The Roanoke colony failed and is known as the lost colony after it was found abandoned on the return of the late-arriving supply ship. With the East India Company, England also competed with the Dutch and French in the East. During the Elizabethan period, England was at war with Spain. An armada sailed from Spain in 1588 as part of a wider plan to invade England and re-establish a Catholic monarchy. The plan was thwarted by bad coordination, stormy weather and successful harrying attacks by an English fleet under Lord Howard of Effingham. This failure did not end the threat: Spain launched two further armadas, in 1596 and 1597, but both were driven back by storms. The political structure of the island changed in 1603, when the King of Scots, James VI, a kingdom which had been a long-time rival to English interests, inherited the throne of England as James I, thereby creating a personal union. He styled himself King of Great Britain, although this had no basis in English law. Under the auspices of King James VI and I the Authorised King James Version of the Holy Bible was published in 1611. It has not only been ranked with Shakespeare's works as the greatest masterpiece of literature in the English language but also was the standard version of the Bible read by most Protestant Christians for four hundred years until modern revisions were produced in the 20th century.\nBased on conflicting political, religious and social positions, the English Civil War was fought between the supporters of Parliament and those of King Charles I, known colloquially as Roundheads and Cavaliers respectively. This was an interwoven part of the wider multifaceted Wars of the Three Kingdoms, involving Scotland and Ireland. The Parliamentarians were victorious, Charles I was executed and the kingdom replaced by the Commonwealth. Leader of the Parliament forces, Oliver Cromwell declared himself Lord Protector in 1653; a period of personal rule followed. After Cromwell's death and the resignation of his son Richard as Lord Protector, Charles II was invited to return as monarch in 1660, in a move called the Restoration. After the Glorious Revolution of 1688, it was constitutionally established that King and Parliament should rule together, though Parliament would have the real power. This was established with the Bill of Rights in 1689. Among the statutes set down were that the law could only be made by Parliament and could not be suspended by the King, also that the King could not impose taxes or raise an army without the prior approval of Parliament. Also since that time, no British monarch has entered the House of Commons when it is sitting, which is annually commemorated at the State Opening of Parliament by the British monarch when the doors of the House of Commons are slammed in the face of the monarch's messenger, symbolising the rights of Parliament and its independence from the monarch. With the founding of the Royal Society in 1660, science was greatly encouraged.\n\nIn 1666 the Great Fire of London gutted the City of London but it was rebuilt shortly afterwards with many significant buildings designed by Sir Christopher Wren. In Parliament two factions had emerged – the Tories and Whigs. Though the Tories initially supported Catholic king James II, some of them, along with the Whigs, during the Revolution of 1688 invited Dutch prince William of Orange to defeat James and ultimately to become William III of England. Some English people, especially in the north, were Jacobites and continued to support James and his sons. After the parliaments of England and Scotland agreed, the two countries joined in political union, to create the Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707. To accommodate the union, institutions such as the law and national churches of each remained separate.\n\nUnder the newly formed Kingdom of Great Britain, output from the Royal Society and other English initiatives combined with the Scottish Enlightenment to create innovations in science and engineering, while the enormous growth in British overseas trade protected by the Royal Navy paved the way for the establishment of the British Empire. Domestically it drove the Industrial Revolution, a period of profound change in the socioeconomic and cultural conditions of England, resulting in industrialised agriculture, manufacture, engineering and mining, as well as new and pioneering road, rail and water networks to facilitate their expansion and development. The opening of Northwest England's Bridgewater Canal in 1761 ushered in the canal age in Britain. In 1825 the world's first permanent steam locomotive-hauled passenger railway – the Stockton and Darlington Railway – opened to the public.\nDuring the Industrial Revolution, many workers moved from England's countryside to new and expanding urban industrial areas to work in factories, for instance at Birmingham and Manchester, dubbed \"Workshop of the World\" and \"Warehouse City\" respectively. England maintained relative stability throughout the French Revolution; William Pitt the Younger was British Prime Minister for the reign of George III. During the Napoleonic Wars, Napoleon planned to invade from the south-east. However this failed to manifest and the Napoleonic forces were defeated by the British at sea by Lord Nelson and on land by the Duke of Wellington. The Napoleonic Wars fostered a concept of Britishness and a united national British people, shared with the Scots and Welsh.\nLondon became the largest and most populous metropolitan area in the world during the Victorian era, and trade within the British Empire – as well as the standing of the British military and navy – was prestigious. Political agitation at home from radicals such as the Chartists and the suffragettes enabled legislative reform and universal suffrage. Power shifts in east-central Europe led to World War I; hundreds of thousands of English soldiers died fighting for the United Kingdom as part of the Allies. Two decades later, in World War II, the United Kingdom was again one of the Allies. At the end of the Phoney War, Winston Churchill became the wartime Prime Minister. Developments in warfare technology saw many cities damaged by air-raids during the Blitz. Following the war, the British Empire experienced rapid decolonisation, and there was a speeding up of technological innovations; automobiles became the primary means of transport and Frank Whittle's development of the jet engine led to wider air travel. Residential patterns were altered in England by private motoring, and by the creation of the National Health Service (NHS) in 1948. The UK's NHS provided publicly funded health care to all UK permanent residents free at the point of need, being paid for from general taxation. Combined, these changes prompted the reform of local government in England in the mid-20th century.\n\nSince the 20th century there has been significant population movement to England, mostly from other parts of the British Isles, but also from the Commonwealth, particularly the Indian subcontinent. Since the 1970s there has been a large move away from manufacturing and an increasing emphasis on the service industry. As part of the United Kingdom, the area joined a common market initiative called the European Economic Community which became the European Union. Since the late 20th century the administration of the United Kingdom has moved towards devolved governance in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. England and Wales continues to exist as a jurisdiction within the United Kingdom. Devolution has stimulated a greater emphasis on a more English-specific identity and patriotism. There is no devolved English government, but an attempt to create a similar system on a sub-regional basis was rejected by referendum.\n\nAs part of the United Kingdom, the basic political system in England is a constitutional monarchy and parliamentary system. There has not been a government of England since 1707, when the Acts of Union 1707, putting into effect the terms of the Treaty of Union, joined England and Scotland to form the Kingdom of Great Britain. Before the union England was ruled by its monarch and the Parliament of England. Today England is governed directly by the Parliament of the United Kingdom, although other countries of the United Kingdom have devolved governments. In the House of Commons which is the lower house of the British Parliament based at the Palace of Westminster, there are 532 Members of Parliament (MPs) for constituencies in England, out of the 650 total.\n\nIn the United Kingdom general election, 2017, the Conservative Party won 317 seats (the Speaker of the House not being counted as a Conservative), more than any other party, though not enough to achieve an overall majority. The Conservative party, headed by the prime minister Theresa May, won 55 more seats than the Labour Party, led by Jeremy Corbyn. The Scottish National Party (Scotland only) won 35 out of 59 Scottish seats in the House of Commons.\nAs the United Kingdom is a member of the European Union, there are elections held regionally in England to decide who is sent as Members of the European Parliament. The 2014 European Parliament election saw the regions of England elect the following MEPs: 22 UK Independence Party (UKIP), 17 Conservatives, 17 Labour, 3 Greens, and one Liberal Democrat.\n\nSince devolution, in which other countries of the United Kingdom – Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland – each have their own devolved parliament or assemblies for local issues, there has been debate about how to counterbalance this in England. Originally it was planned that various regions of England would be devolved, but following the proposal's rejection by the North East in a referendum, this has not been carried out.\n\nOne major issue is the West Lothian question, in which MPs from Scotland and Wales are able to vote on legislation affecting only England, while English MPs have no equivalent right to legislate on devolved matters. This when placed in the context of England being the only country of the United Kingdom not to have free cancer treatment, prescriptions, residential care for the elderly and free top-up university fees, has led to a steady rise in English nationalism. Some have suggested the creation of a devolved English parliament, while others have proposed simply limiting voting on legislation which only affects England to English MPs.\nThe English law legal system, developed over the centuries, is the basis of common law legal systems used in most Commonwealth countries and the United States (except Louisiana). Despite now being part of the United Kingdom, the legal system of the Courts of England and Wales continued, under the Treaty of Union, as a separate legal system from the one used in Scotland. The general essence of English law is that it is made by judges sitting in courts, applying their common sense and knowledge of legal precedent – \"stare decisis\" – to the facts before them.\n\nThe court system is headed by the Senior Courts of England and Wales, consisting of the Court of Appeal, the High Court of Justice for civil cases, and the Crown Court for criminal cases. The Supreme Court of the United Kingdom is the highest court for criminal and civil cases in England and Wales. It was created in 2009 after constitutional changes, taking over the judicial functions of the House of Lords. A decision of the Supreme Court is binding on every other court in the hierarchy, which must follow its directions.\n\nCrime increased between 1981 and 1995 but fell by 42% in the period 1995–2006. The prison population doubled over the same period, giving it the highest incarceration rate in Western Europe at 147 per 100,000. Her Majesty's Prison Service, reporting to the Ministry of Justice, manages most prisons, housing over 85,000 convicts.\n\nThe subdivisions of England consist of up to four levels of subnational division controlled through a variety of types of administrative entities created for the purposes of local government. The highest tier of local government were the nine regions of England: North East, North West, Yorkshire and the Humber, East Midlands, West Midlands, East, South East, South West, and London. These were created in 1994 as Government Offices, used by the UK government to deliver a wide range of policies and programmes regionally, but there are no elected bodies at this level, except in London, and in 2011 the regional government offices were abolished. The same boundaries remain in use for electing Members of the European Parliament on a regional basis.\n\nAfter devolution began to take place in other parts of the United Kingdom it was planned that referendums for the regions of England would take place for their own elected regional assemblies as a counterweight. London accepted in 1998: the London Assembly was created two years later. However, when the proposal was rejected by the northern England devolution referendums, 2004 in the North East, further referendums were cancelled. The regional assemblies outside London were abolished in 2010, and their functions transferred to respective Regional Development Agencies and a new system of Local authority leaders' boards.\n\nBelow the regional level, all of England is divided into 48 ceremonial counties. These are used primarily as a geographical frame of reference and have developed gradually since the Middle Ages, with some established as recently as 1974. Each has a Lord Lieutenant and High Sheriff; these posts are used to represent the British monarch locally. Outside Greater London and the Isles of Scilly, England is also divided into 83 metropolitan and non-metropolitan counties; these correspond to areas used for the purposes of local government and may consist of a single district or be divided into several.\n\nThere are six metropolitan counties based on the most heavily urbanised areas, which do not have county councils. In these areas the principal authorities are the councils of the subdivisions, the metropolitan boroughs. Elsewhere, 27 non-metropolitan \"shire\" counties have a county council and are divided into districts, each with a district council. They are typically, though not always, found in more rural areas. The remaining non-metropolitan counties are of a single district and usually correspond to large towns or sparsely populated counties; they are known as unitary authorities. Greater London has a different system for local government, with 32 London boroughs, plus the City of London covering a small area at the core governed by the City of London Corporation. At the most localised level, much of England is divided into civil parishes with councils; in Greater London only one, Queen's Park, exists as of 2014 after they were abolished in 1965 until legislation allowed their recreation in 2007.\n\nGeographically England includes the central and southern two-thirds of the island of Great Britain, plus such offshore islands as the Isle of Wight and the Isles of Scilly. It is bordered by two other countries of the United Kingdom: to the north by Scotland and to the west by Wales. England is closer to the European continent than any other part of mainland Britain. It is separated from France (Hauts-de-France) by a sea gap, though the two countries are connected by the Channel Tunnel near Folkestone. England also has shores on the Irish Sea, North Sea and Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe ports of London, Liverpool, and Newcastle lie on the tidal rivers Thames, Mersey and Tyne respectively. At , the Severn is the longest river flowing through England. It empties into the Bristol Channel and is notable for its Severn Bore (a tidal bore), which can reach in height. However, the longest river entirely in England is the Thames, which is in length. There are many lakes in England; the largest is Windermere, within the aptly named Lake District.\n\nMost of England's landscape consists of low hills and plains, with upland and mountainous terrain in the north and west of the country. The northern uplands include the Pennines, a chain of uplands dividing east and west, the Lake District mountains in Cumbria, and the Cheviot Hills, straddling the border between England and Scotland. The highest point in England, at , is Scafell Pike in the Lake District. The Shropshire Hills are near Wales while Dartmoor and Exmoor are two upland areas in the south-west of the country. The approximate dividing line between terrain types is often indicated by the Tees-Exe line.\nIn geological terms, the Pennines, known as the \"backbone of England\", are the oldest range of mountains in the country, originating from the end of the Paleozoic Era around 300 million years ago. Their geological composition includes, among others, sandstone and limestone, and also coal. There are karst landscapes in calcite areas such as parts of Yorkshire and Derbyshire. The Pennine landscape is high moorland in upland areas, indented by fertile valleys of the region's rivers. They contain two national parks, the Yorkshire Dales and the Peak District. In the West Country, Dartmoor and Exmoor of the Southwest Peninsula include upland moorland supported by granite, and enjoy a mild climate; both are national parks.\n\nThe English Lowlands are in the central and southern regions of the country, consisting of green rolling hills, including the Cotswold Hills, Chiltern Hills, North and South Downs; where they meet the sea they form white rock exposures such as the cliffs of Dover. This also includes relatively flat plains such as the Salisbury Plain, Somerset Levels, South Coast Plain and The Fens.\n\nEngland has a temperate maritime climate: it is mild with temperatures not much lower than in winter and not much higher than in summer. The weather is damp relatively frequently and is changeable. The coldest months are January and February, the latter particularly on the English coast, while July is normally the warmest month. Months with mild to warm weather are May, June, September and October. Rainfall is spread fairly evenly throughout the year.\n\nImportant influences on the climate of England are its proximity to the Atlantic Ocean, its northern latitude and the warming of the sea by the Gulf Stream. Rainfall is higher in the west, and parts of the Lake District receive more rain than anywhere else in the country. Since weather records began, the highest temperature recorded was on 10 August 2003 at Brogdale in Kent, while the lowest was on 10 January 1982 in Edgmond, Shropshire.\n\nThe Greater London Built-up Area is by far the largest urban area in England and one of the busiest cities in the world. It is considered a global city and has a population larger than other countries in the United Kingdom besides England itself. Other urban areas of considerable size and influence tend to be in northern England or the English Midlands. There are 50 settlements which have been designated city status in England, while the wider United Kingdom has 66.\n\nWhile many cities in England are quite large, such as Birmingham, Sheffield, Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds, Newcastle, Bradford, Nottingham, population size is not a prerequisite for city status. Traditionally the status was given to towns with diocesan cathedrals, so there are smaller cities like Wells, Ely, Ripon, Truro and Chichester. According to the Office for National Statistics, the ten largest, continuous built-up urban areas are:\nEngland's economy is one of the largest in the world, with an average GDP per capita of £22,907. Usually regarded as a mixed market economy, it has adopted many free market principles, yet maintains an advanced social welfare infrastructure. The official currency in England is the pound sterling, whose ISO 4217 code is GBP. Taxation in England is quite competitive when compared to much of the rest of Europe – the basic rate of personal tax is 20% on taxable income up to £31,865 above the personal tax-free allowance (normally £10,000), and 40% on any additional earnings above that amount.\n\nThe economy of England is the largest part of the UK's economy, which has the 18th highest GDP PPP per capita in the world. England is a leader in the chemical and pharmaceutical sectors and in key technical industries, particularly aerospace, the arms industry, and the manufacturing side of the software industry. London, home to the London Stock Exchange, the United Kingdom's main stock exchange and the largest in Europe, is England's financial centre, with 100 of Europe's 500 largest corporations being based there. London is the largest financial centre in Europe, and is the second largest in the world.\nThe Bank of England, founded in 1694 by Scottish banker William Paterson, is the United Kingdom's central bank. Originally established as private banker to the government of England, since 1946 it has been a state-owned institution. The bank has a monopoly on the issue of banknotes in England and Wales, although not in other parts of the United Kingdom. The government has devolved responsibility to the bank's Monetary Policy Committee for managing the monetary policy of the country and setting interest rates.\n\nEngland is highly industrialised, but since the 1970s there has been a decline in traditional heavy and manufacturing industries, and an increasing emphasis on a more service industry oriented economy. Tourism has become a significant industry, attracting millions of visitors to England each year. The export part of the economy is dominated by pharmaceuticals, cars (although many English marques are now foreign-owned, such as Land Rover, Lotus, Jaguar and Bentley), crude oil and petroleum from the English parts of North Sea oil along with Wytch Farm, aircraft engines and alcoholic beverages.\n\nMost of the UK's £30 billion aerospace industry is primarily based in England. The global market opportunity for UK aerospace manufacturers over the next two decades is estimated at £3.5 trillion. GKN Aerospace – an expert in metallic and composite aerostructures is involved in almost every civil and military fixed and rotary wing aircraft in production is based in Redditch.\n\nBAE Systems makes large sections of the Typhoon Eurofighter at its sub-assembly plant in Salmesbury and assembles the aircraft for the RAF at its Warton plant, near Preston. It is also a principal subcontractor on the F35 Joint Strike Fighter – the world's largest single defence project – for which it designs and manufactures a range of components including the aft fuselage, vertical and horizontal tail and wing tips and fuel system. It also manufactures the Hawk, the world's most successful jet training aircraft.\n\nRolls-Royce PLC is the world's second-largest aero-engine manufacturer. Its engines power more than 30 types of commercial aircraft, and it has more 30,000 engines currently in service across both the civil and defence sectors. With a workforce of over 12,000 people, Derby has the largest concentration of Rolls-Royce employees in the UK. Rolls-Royce also produces low-emission power systems for ships; makes critical equipment and safety systems for the nuclear industry and powers offshore platforms and major pipelines for the oil and gas industry.\n\nMuch of the UK's space industry is centred on EADS Astrium, based in Stevenage and Portsmouth. The company builds the buses – the underlying structure onto which the payload and propulsion systems are built – for most of the European Space Agency's spacecraft, as well as commercial satellites. The world leader in compact satellite systems, Surrey Satellites, is also part of Astrium. Reaction Engines Limited, the company planning to build Skylon, a single-stage-to-orbit spaceplane using their SABRE rocket engine, a combined-cycle, air-breathing rocket propulsion system is based Culham.\n\nAgriculture is intensive and highly mechanised, producing 60% of food needs with only 2% of the labour force. Two-thirds of production is devoted to livestock, the other to arable crops.\n\nProminent English figures from the field of science and mathematics include Sir Isaac Newton, Michael Faraday, Charles Darwin, Robert Hooke, James Prescott Joule, John Dalton, Lord Rayleigh, J. J. Thomson, James Chadwick, Charles Babbage, George Boole, Alan Turing, Tim Berners-Lee, Paul Dirac, Stephen Hawking, Peter Higgs, Roger Penrose, John Horton Conway, Thomas Bayes, Arthur Cayley, G. H. Hardy, Oliver Heaviside, Andrew Wiles, Francis Crick, Joseph Lister, Joseph Priestley, Thomas Young, Christopher Wren and Richard Dawkins. Some experts claim that the earliest concept of a metric system was invented by John Wilkins, the first secretary of the Royal Society, in 1668.\n\nAs the birthplace of the Industrial Revolution, England was home to many significant inventors during the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Famous English engineers include Isambard Kingdom Brunel, best known for the creation of the Great Western Railway, a series of famous steamships, and numerous important bridges, hence revolutionising public transport and modern-day engineering. Thomas Newcomen's steam engine helped spawn the Industrial Revolution. The Father of Railways, George Stephenson, built the first public inter-city railway line in the world, the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, which opened in 1830. With his role in the marketing and manufacturing of the steam engine, and invention of modern coinage, Matthew Boulton (business partner of James Watt) is regarded as one of the most influential entrepreneurs in history. The physician Edward Jenner's smallpox vaccine is said to have \"saved more lives ... than were lost in all the wars of mankind since the beginning of recorded history.\"\n\nInventions and discoveries of the English include: the jet engine, the first industrial spinning machine, the first computer and the first modern computer, the World Wide Web along with HTML, the first successful human blood transfusion, the motorised vacuum cleaner, the lawn mower, the seat belt, the hovercraft, the electric motor, steam engines, and theories such as the Darwinian theory of evolution and atomic theory. Newton developed the ideas of universal gravitation, Newtonian mechanics, and calculus, and Robert Hooke his eponymously named law of elasticity. Other inventions include the iron plate railway, the thermosiphon, tarmac, the rubber band, the mousetrap, \"cat's eye\" road marker, joint development of the light bulb, steam locomotives, the modern seed drill and many modern techniques and technologies used in precision engineering.\n\nThe Department for Transport is the government body responsible for overseeing transport in England. There are many motorways in England, and many other trunk roads, such as the A1 Great North Road, which runs through eastern England from London to Newcastle (much of this section is motorway) and onward to the Scottish border. The longest motorway in England is the M6, from Rugby through the North West up to the Anglo-Scottish border, a distance of . Other major routes include: the M1 from London to Leeds, the M25 which encircles London, the M60 which encircles Manchester, the M4 from London to South Wales, the M62 from Liverpool via Manchester to East Yorkshire, and the M5 from Birmingham to Bristol and the South West.\n\nBus transport across the country is widespread; major companies include National Express, Arriva and Go-Ahead Group. The red double-decker buses in London have become a symbol of England. There is a rapid transit network in two English cities: the London Underground; and the Tyne and Wear Metro in Newcastle, Gateshead and Sunderland. There are several tram networks, such as the Blackpool tramway, Manchester Metrolink, Sheffield Supertram and Midland Metro, and the Tramlink system centred on Croydon in South London.\nRail transport in England is the oldest in the world: passenger railways originated in England in 1825. Much of Britain's of rail network lies in England, covering the country fairly extensively, although a high proportion of railway lines were closed in the second half of the 20th century. There are plans to reopen lines such as the Varsity Line between Oxford and Cambridge. These lines are mostly standard gauge (single, double or quadruple track) though there are also a few narrow gauge lines. There is rail transport access to France and Belgium through an undersea rail link, the Channel Tunnel, which was completed in 1994.\n\nEngland has extensive domestic and international aviation links. The largest airport is Heathrow, which is the world's busiest airport measured by number of international passengers. Other large airports include Manchester Airport, Stansted Airport, Luton Airport and Birmingham Airport. By sea there is ferry transport, both local and international, including to Ireland, the Netherlands and Belgium. There are around of navigable waterways in England, half of which is owned by the Canal and River Trust, however, water transport is very limited. The Thames is the major waterway in England, with imports and exports focused at the Port of Tilbury in the Thames Estuary, one of the United Kingdom's three major ports.\n\nThe National Health Service (NHS) is the publicly funded healthcare system in England responsible for providing the majority of healthcare in the country. The NHS began on 5 July 1948, putting into effect the provisions of the National Health Service Act 1946. It was based on the findings of the Beveridge Report, prepared by economist and social reformer William Beveridge. The NHS is largely funded from general taxation including National Insurance payments, and it provides most of its services free at the point of use, although there are charges for some people for eye tests, dental care, prescriptions and aspects of personal care.\n\nThe government department responsible for the NHS is the Department of Health, headed by the Secretary of State for Health, who sits in the British Cabinet. Most of the expenditure of the Department of Health is spent on the NHS—£98.6 billion was spent in 2008–2009. In recent years the private sector has been increasingly used to provide more NHS services despite opposition by doctors and trade unions.\nThe average life expectancy of people in England is 77.5 years for males and 81.7 years for females, the highest of the four countries of the United Kingdom. The South of England has a higher life expectancy than the North, however, regional differences do seem to be slowly narrowing: between 1991–1993 and 2012–2014, life expectancy in the North East increased by 6.0 years and in the North West by 5.8 years, the fastest increase in any region outside London, and the gap between life expectancy in the North East and South East is now 2.5 years, down from 2.9 in 1993.\n\nWith over 53 million inhabitants, England is by far the most populous country of the United Kingdom, accounting for 84% of the combined total. England taken as a unit and measured against international states has the fourth largest population in the European Union and would be the 25th largest country by population in the world. With a density of 424 people per square kilometre, it would be the second most densely populated country in the European Union after Malta.\n\nThe English people are a British people. Some genetic evidence suggests that 75–95% descend in the paternal line from prehistoric settlers who originally came from the Iberian Peninsula, as well as a 5% contribution from Angles and Saxons, and a significant Scandinavian (Viking) element. However, other geneticists place the Germanic estimate up to half. Over time, various cultures have been influential: Prehistoric, Brythonic, Roman, Anglo-Saxon, Viking (North Germanic), Gaelic cultures, as well as a large influence from Normans. There is an English diaspora in former parts of the British Empire; especially the United States, Canada, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand. Since the late 1990s, many English people have migrated to Spain.\nIn 1086, when the \"Domesday Book\" was compiled, England had a population of two million. About 10% lived in urban areas. By 1801, the population was 8.3 million, and by 1901 30.5 million. Due in particular to the economic prosperity of South East England, it has received many economic migrants from the other parts of the United Kingdom. There has been significant Irish migration. The proportion of ethnically European residents totals at 87.50%, including Germans and Poles.\n\nOther people from much further afield in the former British colonies have arrived since the 1950s: in particular, 6% of people living in England have family origins in the Indian subcontinent, mostly India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. 2.90% of the population are black, from Africa and the Caribbean, especially former British colonies. There is a significant number of Chinese and British Chinese. In 2007, 22% of primary school children in England were from ethnic minority families, and in 2011 that figure was 26.5%. About half of the population increase between 1991 and 2001 was due to immigration. Debate over immigration is politically prominent; 80% of respondents in a 2009 Home Office poll wanted to cap it. The ONS has projected that the population will grow by nine million between 2014 and 2039.\n\nEngland contains one indigenous national minority, the Cornish people, recognised by the UK government under the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in 2014.\n\nAs its name suggests, the English language, today spoken by hundreds of millions of people around the world, originated as the language of England, where it remains the principal tongue spoken by 98% of the population. It is an Indo-European language in the Anglo-Frisian branch of the Germanic family. After the Norman conquest, the Old English language was displaced and confined to the lower social classes as Norman French and Latin were used by the aristocracy.\n\nBy the 15th century, English was back in fashion among all classes, though much changed; the Middle English form showed many signs of French influence, both in vocabulary and spelling. During the English Renaissance, many words were coined from Latin and Greek origins. Modern English has extended this custom of flexibility when it comes to incorporating words from different languages. Thanks in large part to the British Empire, the English language is the world's unofficial \"lingua franca\".\n\nEnglish language learning and teaching is an important economic activity, and includes language schooling, tourism spending, and publishing. There is no legislation mandating an official language for England, but English is the only language used for official business. Despite the country's relatively small size, there are many distinct regional accents, and individuals with particularly strong accents may not be easily understood everywhere in the country.\n\nAs well as English, England has two other indigenous languages, Cornish and Welsh. Cornish died out as a community language in the 18th century but is being revived, and is now protected under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. It is spoken by 0.1% of people in Cornwall, and is taught to some degree in several primary and secondary schools.\n\nWhen the modern border between Wales and England was established by the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542, many Welsh-speaking communities found themselves on the English side of the border. Welsh was spoken in Archenfield in Herefordshire into the nineteenth century, and by natives of parts of western Shropshire until the middle of the twentieth century if not later.\n\nState schools teach students a second language, usually French, German or Spanish. Due to immigration, it was reported in 2007 that around 800,000 school students spoke a foreign language at home, the most common being Punjabi and Urdu. However, following the 2011 census data released by the Office for National Statistics, figures now show that Polish is the main language spoken in England after English.\n\nIn the 2011 census, 59.4% of the population of England specified their religion as Christian, 24.7% answered that they had no religion, 5% specified that they were Muslim, while 3.7% of the population belongs to other religions and 7.2% did not give an answer. Christianity is the most widely practised religion in England, as it has been since the Early Middle Ages, although it was first introduced much earlier in Gaelic and Roman times. This Celtic Church was gradually joined to the Catholic hierarchy following the 6th-century Gregorian mission to Kent led by St Augustine. The established church of England is the Church of England, which left communion with Rome in the 1530s when Henry VIII was unable to annul his divorce to the aunt of the king of Spain. The church regards itself as both Catholic and Protestant.\nThere are High Church and Low Church traditions and some Anglicans regard themselves as Anglo-Catholics, following the Tractarian movement. The monarch of the United Kingdom is the Supreme Governor of the Church of England, which has around 26 million baptised members (of whom the vast majority are not regular churchgoers). It forms part of the Anglican Communion with the Archbishop of Canterbury acting as its symbolic worldwide head. Many cathedrals and parish churches are historic buildings of significant architectural importance, such as Westminster Abbey, York Minster, Durham Cathedral, and Salisbury Cathedral.\n\nThe 2nd-largest Christian practice is the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church. Since its reintroduction after the Catholic Emancipation, the Church has organised ecclesiastically on an England and Wales basis where there are 4.5 million members (most of whom are English). There has been one Pope from England to date, Adrian IV; while saints Bede and Anselm are regarded as Doctors of the Church.\n\nA form of Protestantism known as Methodism is the third largest Christian practice and grew out of Anglicanism through John Wesley. It gained popularity in the mill towns of Lancashire and Yorkshire, and amongst tin miners in Cornwall. There are other non-conformist minorities, such as Baptists, Quakers, Congregationalists, Unitarians and The Salvation Army.\n\nThe patron saint of England is Saint George; his symbolic cross is included in the flag of England, as well as in the Union Flag as part of a combination. There are many other English and associated saints; some of the best-known are: Cuthbert, Edmund, Alban, Wilfrid, Aidan, Edward the Confessor, John Fisher, Thomas More, Petroc, Piran, Margaret Clitherow and Thomas Becket. There are non-Christian religions practised. Jews have a history of a small minority on the island since 1070. They were expelled from England in 1290 following the Edict of Expulsion, only to be allowed back in 1656.\nEspecially since the 1950s, religions from the former British colonies have grown in numbers, due to immigration. Islam is the most common of these, now accounting for around 5% of the population in England. Hinduism, Sikhism and Buddhism are next in number, adding up to 2.8% combined, introduced from India and South East Asia.\n\nA small minority of the population practise ancient Pagan religions. Neopaganism in the United Kingdom is primarily represented by Wicca and Witchcraft religions, Druidry, and Heathenry. According to the 2011 UK Census, there are roughly 53,172 people who identify as Pagan in England, and 3,448 in Wales, including 11,026 Wiccans in England and 740 in Wales.\n\nThe Department for Education is the government department responsible for issues affecting people in England up to the age of 19, including education. State-run and state-funded schools are attended by approximately 93% of English schoolchildren. Of these, a minority are faith schools (primarily Church of England or Roman Catholic schools). Children who are between the ages of 3 and 5 attend nursery or an Early Years Foundation Stage reception unit within a primary school. Children between the ages of 5 and 11 attend primary school, and secondary school is attended by those aged between 11 and 16. After finishing compulsory education, students take GCSE examinations. Students may then opt to continue into further education for two years. Further education colleges (particularly sixth form colleges) often form part of a secondary school site. A-level examinations are sat by a large number of further education students, and often form the basis of an application to university.\n\nAlthough most English secondary schools are comprehensive, in some areas there are selective intake grammar schools, to which entrance is subject to passing the eleven-plus exam. Around 7.2% of English schoolchildren attend private schools, which are funded by private sources. Standards in state schools are monitored by the Office for Standards in Education, and in private schools by the Independent Schools Inspectorate.\nHigher education students normally attend university from age 18 onwards, where they study for an academic degree. There are over 90 universities in England, all but one of which are public institutions. The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills is the government department responsible for higher education in England. Students are generally entitled to student loans to cover the cost of tuition fees and living costs. The first degree offered to undergraduates is the Bachelor's degree, which usually takes three years to complete. Students are then able to work towards a postgraduate degree, which usually takes one year, or towards a doctorate, which takes three or more years. Since the establishment of Bedford College (London), Girton College (Cambridge) and Somerville College (Oxford) in the 19th century, women also can obtain a university degree.\n\nEngland's universities include some of the highest-ranked universities in the world; University of Cambridge, University of Oxford, Imperial College London, University College London and King's College London are all ranked in the global top 30 in the 2018 \"QS World University Rankings\". The London School of Economics has been described as the world's leading social science institution for both teaching and research. The London Business School is considered one of the world's leading business schools and in 2010 its MBA programme was ranked best in the world by the \"Financial Times\". Academic degrees in England are usually split into classes: first class (1st), upper second class (2:1), lower second class (2:2), third (3rd), and unclassified.\n\nThe King's School, Canterbury and King's School, Rochester are the oldest schools in the English-speaking world. Many of England's most well-known schools, such as Winchester College, Eton, St Paul's School, Harrow School and Rugby School are fee-paying institutions.\n\nMany ancient standing stone monuments were erected during the prehistoric period; amongst the best known are Stonehenge, Devil's Arrows, Rudston Monolith and Castlerigg. With the introduction of Ancient Roman architecture there was a development of basilicas, baths, amphitheaters, triumphal arches, villas, Roman temples, Roman roads, Roman forts, stockades and aqueducts. It was the Romans who founded the first cities and towns such as London, Bath, York, Chester and St Albans. Perhaps the best-known example is Hadrian's Wall stretching right across northern England. Another well-preserved example is the Roman Baths at Bath, Somerset.\n\nEarly Medieval architecture's secular buildings were simple constructions mainly using timber with thatch for roofing. Ecclesiastical architecture ranged from a synthesis of Hiberno–Saxon monasticism, to Early Christian basilica and architecture characterised by pilaster-strips, blank arcading, baluster shafts and triangular headed openings. After the Norman conquest in 1066 various Castles in England were created so law lords could uphold their authority and in the north to protect from invasion. Some of the best-known medieval castles are the Tower of London, Warwick Castle, Durham Castle and Windsor Castle.\nThroughout the Plantagenet era, an English Gothic architecture flourished, with prime examples including the medieval cathedrals such as Canterbury Cathedral, Westminster Abbey and York Minster. Expanding on the Norman base there was also castles, palaces, great houses, universities and parish churches. Medieval architecture was completed with the 16th-century Tudor style; the four-centred arch, now known as the Tudor arch, was a defining feature as were wattle and daub houses domestically. In the aftermath of the Renaissance a form of architecture echoing classical antiquity synthesised with Christianity appeared, the English Baroque style of architect Christopher Wren being particularly championed.\n\nGeorgian architecture followed in a more refined style, evoking a simple Palladian form; the Royal Crescent at Bath is one of the best examples of this. With the emergence of romanticism during Victorian period, a Gothic Revival was launched. In addition to this, around the same time the Industrial Revolution paved the way for buildings such as The Crystal Palace. Since the 1930s various modernist forms have appeared whose reception is often controversial, though traditionalist resistance movements continue with support in influential places.\nEnglish folklore developed over many centuries. Some of the characters and stories are present across England, but most belong to specific regions. Common folkloric beings include pixies, giants, elves, bogeymen, trolls, goblins and dwarves. While many legends and folk-customs are thought to be ancient, for instance the tales featuring Offa of Angel and Wayland the Smith, others date from after the Norman invasion; Robin Hood and his Merry Men of Sherwood and their battles with the Sheriff of Nottingham being, perhaps, the best known.\n\nDuring the High Middle Ages tales originating from Brythonic traditions entered English folklore and developed into the Arthurian myth. These were derived from Anglo-Norman, Welsh and French sources, featuring King Arthur, Camelot, Excalibur, Merlin and the Knights of the Round Table such as Lancelot. These stories are most centrally brought together within Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" (\"History of the Kings of Britain\"). Another early figure from British tradition, King Cole, may have been based on a real figure from Sub-Roman Britain. Many of the tales and pseudo-histories make up part of the wider Matter of Britain, a collection of shared British folklore.\n\nSome folk figures are based on semi or actual historical people whose story has been passed down centuries; Lady Godiva for instance was said to have ridden naked on horseback through Coventry, Hereward the Wake was a heroic English figure resisting the Norman invasion, Herne the Hunter is an equestrian ghost associated with Windsor Forest and Great Park and Mother Shipton is the archetypal witch. On 5 November people make bonfires, set off fireworks and eat toffee apples in commemoration of the foiling of the Gunpowder Plot centred on Guy Fawkes. The chivalrous bandit, such as Dick Turpin, is a recurring character, while Blackbeard is the archetypal pirate. There are various national and regional folk activities, participated in to this day, such as Morris dancing, Maypole dancing, Rapper sword in the North East, Long Sword dance in Yorkshire, Mummers Plays, bottle-kicking in Leicestershire, and cheese-rolling at Cooper's Hill. There is no official national costume, but a few are well established such as the Pearly Kings and Queens associated with cockneys, the Royal Guard, the Morris costume and Beefeaters.\n\nSince the early modern period the food of England has historically been characterised by its simplicity of approach and a reliance on the high quality of natural produce. During the Middle Ages and through the Renaissance period, English cuisine enjoyed an excellent reputation, though a decline began during the Industrial Revolution with the move away from the land and increasing urbanisation of the populace. The cuisine of England has, however, recently undergone a revival, which has been recognised by food critics with some good ratings in \"Restaurant\"'s best restaurant in the world charts. An early book of English recipes is the \"Forme of Cury\" from the royal court of Richard II.\n\nTraditional examples of English food include the Sunday roast, featuring a roasted joint (usually beef, lamb, chicken or pork) served with assorted vegetables, Yorkshire pudding and gravy. Other prominent meals include fish and chips and the full English breakfast (generally consisting of bacon, sausages, grilled tomatoes, fried bread, black pudding, baked beans, mushrooms and eggs). Various meat pies are consumed, such as steak and kidney pie, steak and ale pie, cottage pie, pork pie (usually eaten cold) and the Cornish pasty.\n\nSausages are commonly eaten, either as bangers and mash or toad in the hole. Lancashire hotpot is a well-known stew originating in the northwest. Some of the more popular cheeses are Cheddar, Red Leicester, Wensleydale, Double Gloucester and Blue Stilton. Many Anglo-Indian hybrid dishes, curries, have been created, such as chicken tikka masala and balti. Traditional English dessert dishes include apple pie or other fruit pies; spotted dick – all generally served with custard; and, more recently, sticky toffee pudding. Sweet pastries include scones (either plain or containing dried fruit) served with jam and/or cream, dried fruit loaves, Eccles cakes and mince pies as well as a wide range of sweet or spiced biscuits.\n\nCommon non-alcoholic drinks include tea, the popularity of which was increased by Catherine of Braganza, and coffee; frequently consumed alcoholic drinks include wine, ciders and English beers, such as bitter, mild, stout and brown ale.\n\nThe earliest known examples are the prehistoric rock and cave art pieces, most prominent in North Yorkshire, Northumberland and Cumbria, but also feature further south, for example at Creswell Crags. With the arrival of Roman culture in the 1st century, various forms of art such as statues, busts, glasswork and mosaics were the norm. There are numerous surviving artefacts, such as those at Lullingstone and Aldborough. During the Early Middle Ages the style favoured sculpted crosses and ivories, manuscript painting, gold and enamel jewellery, demonstrating a love of intricate, interwoven designs such as in the Staffordshire Hoard discovered in 2009. Some of these blended Gaelic and Anglian styles, such as the Lindisfarne Gospels and Vespasian Psalter. Later Gothic art was popular at Winchester and Canterbury, examples survive such as Benedictional of St. Æthelwold and Luttrell Psalter.\n\nThe Tudor era saw prominent artists as part of their court, portrait painting which would remain an enduring part of English art, was boosted by German Hans Holbein, natives such as Nicholas Hilliard built on this. Under the Stuarts, Continental artists were influential especially the Flemish, examples from the period include Anthony van Dyck, Peter Lely, Godfrey Kneller and William Dobson. The 18th century was a time of significance with the founding of the Royal Academy, a classicism based on the High Renaissance prevailed, with Thomas Gainsborough and Joshua Reynolds becoming two of England's most treasured artists.\n\nThe Norwich School continued the landscape tradition, while the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, led by artists such as Holman Hunt, Dante Gabriel Rossetti and John Everett Millais, revived the Early Renaissance style with their vivid and detailed style. Prominent amongst 20th-century artists was Henry Moore, regarded as the voice of British sculpture, and of British modernism in general. Contemporary painters include Lucian Freud, whose work \"Benefits Supervisor Sleeping\" in 2008 set a world record for sale value of a painting by a living artist.\n\nEarly authors such as Bede and Alcuin wrote in Latin. The period of Old English literature provided the epic poem \"Beowulf\" and the secular prose of the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", along with Christian writings such as \"Judith\", Cædmon's \"Hymn\" and hagiographies. Following the Norman conquest Latin continued amongst the educated classes, as well as an Anglo-Norman literature.\n\nMiddle English literature emerged with Geoffrey Chaucer, author of \"The Canterbury Tales\", along with Gower, the Pearl Poet and Langland. William of Ockham and Roger Bacon, who were Franciscans, were major philosophers of the Middle Ages. Julian of Norwich, who wrote \"Revelations of Divine Love\", was a prominent Christian mystic. With the English Renaissance literature in the Early Modern English style appeared. William Shakespeare, whose works include \"Hamlet\", \"Romeo and Juliet\", \"Macbeth\", and \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", remains one of the most championed authors in English literature.\n\nChristopher Marlowe, Edmund Spenser, Philip Sydney, Thomas Kyd, John Donne, and Ben Jonson are other established authors of the Elizabethan age. Francis Bacon and Thomas Hobbes wrote on empiricism and materialism, including scientific method and social contract. Filmer wrote on the Divine Right of Kings. Marvell was the best-known poet of the Commonwealth, while John Milton authored \"Paradise Lost\" during the Restoration.\n\nSome of the most prominent philosophers of the Enlightenment were John Locke, Thomas Paine, Samuel Johnson and Jeremy Bentham. More radical elements were later countered by Edmund Burke who is regarded as the founder of conservatism. The poet Alexander Pope with his satirical verse became well regarded. The English played a significant role in romanticism: Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Lord Byron, John Keats, Mary Shelley, Percy Bysshe Shelley, William Blake and William Wordsworth were major figures.\n\nIn response to the Industrial Revolution, agrarian writers sought a way between liberty and tradition; William Cobbett, G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc were main exponents, while the founder of guild socialism, Arthur Penty, and cooperative movement advocate G. D. H. Cole are somewhat related. Empiricism continued through John Stuart Mill and Bertrand Russell, while Bernard Williams was involved in analytics. Authors from around the Victorian era include Charles Dickens, the Brontë sisters, Jane Austen, George Eliot, Rudyard Kipling, Thomas Hardy, H. G. Wells and Lewis Carroll. Since then England has continued to produce novelists such as George Orwell, D. H. Lawrence, Virginia Woolf, C. S. Lewis, Enid Blyton, Aldous Huxley, Agatha Christie, Terry Pratchett, J. R. R. Tolkien, and J. K. Rowling.\n\nThe traditional folk music of England is centuries old and has contributed to several genres prominently; mostly sea shanties, jigs, hornpipes and dance music. It has its own distinct variations and regional peculiarities. Wynkyn de Worde printed ballads of Robin Hood from the 16th century are an important artefact, as are John Playford's \"The Dancing Master\" and Robert Harley's \"Roxburghe Ballads\" collections. Some of the best-known songs are \"Greensleeves\", \"Pastime with Good Company\", \"Maggie May\" and \"Spanish Ladies\" amongst others. Many nursery rhymes are of English origin such as \"Twinkle Twinkle Little Star\", \"Roses are red\", \"Jack and Jill\", \"London Bridge Is Falling Down, The Grand Old Duke of York, Hey Diddle Diddle\" and \"Humpty Dumpty\". Traditional English Christmas carols include \"We Wish You a Merry Christmas\", \"The First Noel\" and \"God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen\".\n\nEarly English composers in classical music include Renaissance artists Thomas Tallis and William Byrd, followed up by Henry Purcell from the Baroque period. German-born George Frideric Handel became a British subject and spent most of his composing life in London, creating some of the most well-known works of classical music, \"The Messiah\", \"Water Music\", and \"Music for the Royal Fireworks\". One of his four Coronation Anthems, \"Zadok the Priest\", composed for the coronation of George II, has been performed at every subsequent British coronation, traditionally during the sovereign's anointing. There was a revival in the profile of composers from England in the 20th century led by Edward Elgar, Benjamin Britten, Frederick Delius, Gustav Holst, Ralph Vaughan Williams and others. Present-day composers from England include Michael Nyman, best known for \"The Piano\", and Andrew Lloyd Webber, whose musicals have achieved enormous success in the West End and worldwide.\n\nIn the field of popular music, many English bands and solo artists have been cited as the most influential and best-selling musicians of all time. Acts such as The Beatles, Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd, Elton John, Queen, Rod Stewart and The Rolling Stones are among the highest selling recording artists in the world. Many musical genres have origins in (or strong associations with) England, such as British invasion, progressive rock, hard rock, Mod, glam rock, heavy metal, Britpop, indie rock, gothic rock, shoegazing, acid house, garage, trip hop, drum and bass and dubstep.\n\nLarge outdoor music festivals in the summer and autumn are popular, such as Glastonbury, V Festival, and the Reading and Leeds Festivals. The most prominent opera house in England is the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden. The Proms – a season of orchestral classical concerts held primarily at the Royal Albert Hall in London – is a major cultural event in the English calendar, and takes place yearly. The Royal Ballet is one of the world's foremost classical ballet companies, its reputation built on two prominent figures of 20th-century dance, \"prima ballerina\" Margot Fonteyn and choreographer Frederick Ashton.\n\nEngland (and the UK as a whole) has had a considerable influence on the history of the cinema, producing some of the greatest actors, directors and motion pictures of all time, including Alfred Hitchcock, Charlie Chaplin, David Lean, Laurence Olivier, Vivien Leigh, John Gielgud, Peter Sellers, Julie Andrews, Michael Caine, Gary Oldman, Helen Mirren, Kate Winslet and Daniel Day-Lewis. Hitchcock and Lean are among the most critically acclaimed filmmakers. Hitchcock's first thriller, \"\" (1926), helped shape the thriller genre in film, while his 1929 film, \"Blackmail\", is often regarded as the first British feature film.\n\nMajor film studios in England include Pinewood, Elstree and Shepperton. Some of the most commercially successful films of all time have been produced in England, including two of the highest-grossing film franchises (\"Harry Potter\" and \"James Bond\"). Ealing Studios in London has a claim to being the oldest continuously working film studio in the world. Famous for recording many motion picture film scores, the London Symphony Orchestra first performed film music in 1935.\n\nThe BFI Top 100 British films includes \"Monty Python's Life of Brian\" (1979), a film regularly voted the funniest of all time by the UK public. English producers are also active in international co-productions and English actors, directors and crew feature regularly in American films. The UK film council ranked David Yates, Christopher Nolan, Mike Newell, Ridley Scott and Paul Greengrass the five most commercially successful English directors since 2001. Other contemporary English directors include Sam Mendes, Guy Ritchie and Steve McQueen. Current actors include Tom Hardy, Daniel Craig, Benedict Cumberbatch and Emma Watson. Acclaimed for his motion capture work, Andy Serkis opened The Imaginarium Studios in London in 2011. The visual effects company Framestore in London has produced some of the most critically acclaimed special effects in modern film. Many successful Hollywood films have been based on English people, stories or events. The 'English Cycle' of Disney animated films include \"Alice in Wonderland\", \"The Jungle Book\" and \"Winnie the Pooh\".\n\nEnglish Heritage is a governmental body with a broad remit of managing the historic sites, artefacts and environments of England. It is currently sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. The charity National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty holds a contrasting role. 17 of the 25 United Kingdom UNESCO World Heritage Sites fall within England. Some of the best-known of these are: Hadrian's Wall, Stonehenge, Avebury and Associated Sites, Tower of London, Jurassic Coast, Saltaire, Ironbridge Gorge, Studley Royal Park and various others.\n\nThere are many museums in England, but perhaps the most notable is London's British Museum. Its collection of more than seven million objects is one of the largest and most comprehensive in the world, sourced from every continent, illustrating and documenting the story of human culture from its beginning to the present. The British Library in London is the national library and is one of the world's largest research libraries, holding over 150 million items in all known languages and formats; including around 25 million books. The most senior art gallery is the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square, which houses a collection of over 2,300 paintings dating from the mid-13th century to 1900. The Tate galleries house the national collections of British and international modern art; they also host the famously controversial Turner Prize.\n\nEngland has a strong sporting heritage, and during the 19th century codified many sports that are now played around the world. Sports originating in England include association football, cricket, rugby union, rugby league, tennis, boxing, badminton, squash, rounders, hockey, snooker, billiards, darts, table tennis, bowls, netball, thoroughbred horseracing, greyhound racing and fox hunting. It has helped the development of golf, sailing and Formula One.\n\nFootball is the most popular of these sports. The England national football team, whose home venue is Wembley Stadium, played Scotland in the first ever international football match in 1872. Referred to as the \"home of football\" by FIFA, England hosted the 1966 FIFA World Cup, and won the tournament by defeating West Germany 4–2 in the final, with Geoff Hurst scoring a hat-trick. With a British television audience peak of 32.30 million viewers, the final is the most watched television event ever in the UK.\n\nAt club level, England is recognised by FIFA as the birthplace of club football, due to Sheffield F.C. founded in 1857 being the world's oldest club. The Football Association is the oldest governing body in the sport, with the rules of football first drafted in 1863 by Ebenezer Cobb Morley. The FA Cup and The Football League were the first cup and league competitions respectively. In the modern day, the Premier League is the world's most-watched football league, most lucrative, and amongst the elite.\n\nAs is the case throughout the UK, football in England is notable for the rivalries between clubs and the passion of the supporters, which includes a tradition of football chants. The European Cup (now UEFA Champions League) has been won by several English clubs.\nCricket is generally thought to have been developed in the early medieval period among the farming and metalworking communities of the Weald. The England cricket team is a composite England and Wales, team. One of the game's top rivalries is The Ashes series between England and Australia, contested since 1882. The climax of the 2005 Ashes was viewed by 7.4 million as it was available on terrestrial television. England has hosted four Cricket World Cups (1975, 1979, 1983, 1999) and will host the 2019 edition, but never won the tournament, reaching the final 3 times. However they have hosted the ICC World Twenty20 in 2009, winning this format in 2010 beating rivals Australia in the final. In the domestic competition, the County Championship, Yorkshire are by far the most successful club having won the competition 31 times. Lord's Cricket Ground situated in London is sometimes referred to as the \"Mecca of Cricket\".\n\nWilliam Penny Brookes was prominent in organising the format for the modern Olympic Games. In 1994, then President of the IOC, Juan Antonio Samaranch, laid a wreath on Brooke's grave, and said, \"I came to pay homage and tribute to Dr Brookes, who really was the founder of the modern Olympic Games\". London has hosted the Summer Olympic Games three times, in 1908, 1948, and 2012. England competes in the Commonwealth Games, held every four years. Sport England is the governing body responsible for distributing funds and providing strategic guidance for sporting activity in England.\nRugby union originated in Rugby School, Warwickshire in the early 19th century. The England rugby union team won the 2003 Rugby World Cup, with Jonny Wilkinson scoring the winning drop goal in the last minute of extra time against Australia. England was one of the host nations of the competition in the 1991 Rugby World Cup and also hosted the 2015 Rugby World Cup. The top level of club participation is the English Premiership. Leicester Tigers, London Wasps, Bath Rugby and Northampton Saints have had success in the Europe-wide Heineken Cup.\n\nRugby league was born in Huddersfield in 1895. Since 2008, the England national rugby league team has been a full test nation in lieu of the Great Britain national rugby league team, which won three World Cups but is now retired. Club sides play in Super League, the present-day embodiment of the Rugby Football League Championship. Rugby League is most popular among towns in the northern English counties of Lancashire, Yorkshire and Cumbria. All eleven English clubs in Super League are based in the north of England. Some of the most successful clubs include Wigan Warriors, Hull F.C. St. Helens, Leeds Rhinos and Huddersfield Giants; the former three have all won the World Club Challenge previously.\n\nGolf has been prominent in England; due in part to its cultural and geographical ties to Scotland, the home of Golf. There are both professional tours for men and women, in two main tours: the PGA and the European Tour. England has produced grand slam winners: Cyril Walker, Tony Jacklin, Nick Faldo, and Justin Rose in the men's and Laura Davies, Alison Nicholas, and Karen Stupples in the women's. The world's oldest golf tournament, and golf's first major is The Open Championship, played both in England and Scotland. The biennial golf competition, the Ryder Cup, is named after English businessman Samuel Ryder who sponsored the event and donated the trophy. Nick Faldo is the most successful Ryder Cup player ever, having won the most points (25) of any player on either the European or US teams.\nTennis was created in Birmingham in the late 19th century, and the Wimbledon Championships is the oldest tennis tournament in the world, and widely considered the most prestigious. Wimbledon is a tournament that has a major place in the British cultural calendar. Fred Perry was the last Englishman to win Wimbledon in 1936. He was the first player to win all four Grand Slam singles titles and helped lead the Great Britain team to four Davis Cup wins. English women who have won Wimbledon include: Ann Haydon Jones in 1969 and Virginia Wade in 1977.\n\nIn boxing, under the Marquess of Queensberry Rules, England has produced many world champions across the weight divisions internationally recognised by the governing bodies. World champions include Bob Fitzsimmons, Ted \"Kid\" Lewis, Randolph Turpin, Nigel Benn, Chris Eubank, Frank Bruno, Lennox Lewis, Ricky Hatton, Naseem Hamed, Amir Khan, Carl Froch, and David Haye. In women's boxing, Nicola Adams became the world's first woman to win an Olympic boxing Gold medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics.\n\nOriginating in 17th and 18th-century England, the thoroughbred is a horse breed best known for its use in horse racing. The National Hunt horse race the Grand National, is held annually at Aintree Racecourse in early April. It is the most watched horse race in the UK, attracting casual observers, and three-time winner Red Rum is the most successful racehorse in the event's history. Red Rum is also the best-known racehorse in the country.\nThe 1950 British Grand Prix at Silverstone was the first race in the newly created Formula One World Championship. Since then, England has produced some of the greatest drivers in the sport, including; John Surtees, Stirling Moss, Graham Hill (only driver to have won the Triple Crown), Nigel Mansell (only man to hold F1 and IndyCar titles at the same time), Damon Hill, Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button. It has manufactured some of the most technically advanced racing cars, and many of today's racing companies choose England as their base of operations for its engineering knowledge and organisation. McLaren Automotive, Williams F1, Team Lotus, Honda, Brawn GP, Benetton, Renault, and Red Bull Racing are all, or have been, located in the south of England. England also has a rich heritage in Grand Prix motorcycle racing, the premier championship of motorcycle road racing, and produced several World Champions across all the various class of motorcycle: Mike Hailwood, John Surtees, Phil Read, Geoff Duke, and Barry Sheene.\nDarts is a widely popular sport in England; a professional competitive sport, darts is a traditional pub game. The sport is governed by the World Darts Federation, one of its member organisations is the BDO, which annually stages the Lakeside World Professional Championship, the other being the Professional Darts Corporation (PDC), which runs its own world championship at Alexandra Palace in London. Phil Taylor is widely regarded as the best darts player of all time, having won 187 professional tournaments, and a record 16 World Championships. Trina Gulliver is the ten-time Women's World Professional Darts Champion of the British Darts Organisation. Another popular sport commonly associated with pub games is Snooker, and England has produced several world champions, including Steve Davis and Ronnie O'Sullivan.\n\nThe English are keen sailors and enjoy competitive sailing; founding and winning some of the worlds most famous and respected international competitive tournaments across the various race formats, including the match race, a regatta, and the America's Cup. England has produced some of the world's greatest sailors, including, Francis Chichester, Herbert Hasler, John Ridgway, Robin Knox-Johnston, Ellen MacArthur, Mike Golding, Paul Goodison, and the most successful Olympic sailor ever Ben Ainslie.\n\nThe St George's Cross has been the national flag of England since the 13th century. Originally the flag was used by the maritime Republic of Genoa. The English monarch paid a tribute to the Doge of Genoa from 1190 onwards so that English ships could fly the flag as a means of protection when entering the Mediterranean.\nA red cross was a symbol for many Crusaders in the 12th and 13th centuries. It became associated with Saint George, along with countries and cities, which claimed him as their patron saint and used his cross as a banner. Since 1606 the St George's Cross has formed part of the design of the Union Flag, a Pan-British flag designed by King James I. During the English Civil War and Interregnum, the New Model Army's standards and the Commonwealth's Great Seal both incorporated the flag of Saint George.\n\nThere are numerous other symbols and symbolic artefacts, both official and unofficial, including the Tudor rose, the nation's floral emblem, and the Three Lions featured on the Royal Arms of England. The Tudor rose was adopted as a national emblem of England around the time of the Wars of the Roses as a symbol of peace. It is a syncretic symbol in that it merged the white rose of the Yorkists and the red rose of the Lancastrians—cadet branches of the Plantagenets who went to war over control of the nation. It is also known as the \"Rose of England\". The oak tree is a symbol of England, representing strength and endurance. The Royal Oak symbol and Oak Apple Day commemorate the escape of King Charles II from the grasp of the parliamentarians after his father's execution: he hid in an oak tree to avoid detection before safely reaching exile.\n\nThe Royal Arms of England, a national coat of arms featuring three lions, originated with its adoption by Richard the Lionheart in 1198. It is blazoned as \"gules, three lions passant guardant or\" and it provides one of the most prominent symbols of England; it is similar to the traditional arms of Normandy. England does not have an official designated national anthem, as the United Kingdom as a whole has \"God Save the Queen\". However, the following are often considered unofficial English national anthems:\n\"Jerusalem\", \"Land of Hope and Glory\" (used for England during the 2002 Commonwealth Games), and \"I Vow to Thee, My Country\". England's National Day is 23 April which is St George's Day: St George is the patron saint of England.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46780525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46780525", "title": "Equestrian statue of Frederick VII", "text": "Equestrian statue of Frederick VII\n\nThe equestrian statue of Frederick VII in front of Christiansborg on Slotsholmen in Copenhagen, Denmark, was modelled by Herman Wilhelm Bissen and completed posthumously by his son Vilhelm Bissen in 1873. It was created to commemorate King Frederick's central role in Denmark's transition from absolute to constitutional monarchy.\n\nThe statue shows Frederik VII of Denmark on horseback, wearing a long coat.\n\nThe granite plinth is decorated with bronze plaques on all sides. That on the front features a gilt oak wreath and the inscription \"5/IUNI/1849\" in gilt letters. The bronze plate on the left hand side features Frederik VII's motto: \"FOLKETS KIÆRLIGHED/MIN STYRKE\" (The people’s love, my strength). The inscription on the right hand side reads \"FREDERIK D: SYVENDE/GRUNDLOVENS GIVER.\" (Frederik the Seventh, granter of the constitution). The inscription on the rear side reads \"FØDT 1808./KONGE 1848./DØD 1863.” (Born 1808, King 1848, died 1863).\n\nWhen crown prince Frederick ascended to the Danish throne in 1848, following the death of his father, he became the ninth absolute monarch of Denmark since 1660. On 21 March 1848, a demonstration with 10,000 people gathered on the plaza in front of Christiansborg Palace, demanding a new government and democratic reforms. The king immediately agreed and the Constitution of Denmark was signed on 5 June 1849.\nThe statue was created on the initiative of a committee chaired by Carl Ploug to commemorate the monarch's role in ensuring Denmark's transition from absolute to constitutional monarchy. It was financed through contributions from the Danish state, the City of Copenhagen and private donations. Herman Wilhelm Bissen was charged with the design of the statue which was later completed by his son Vilhelm Bissen. It was cast by Parisian bronze casters at Vilhelm Bissen's workshop at Carlsberg. The monument was unveiled on 6 October 1873. It survived the fire of the second Christiansborg Palace in 1894.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27584422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27584422", "title": "Eritrean Postal Service", "text": "Eritrean Postal Service\n\nThe Eritrean Postal Service (EPS) is the government organisation responsible for the postal service in Eritrea. Asmalash Gebreyesus is the current manager. In 2009, the Eritrean Postal Service delivered 1.8 million letters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37134896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37134896", "title": "Febelfin", "text": "Febelfin\n\nFebelfin (from \"Fédération belge du secteur financier\") is the official Belgian federation of the financial sector, and was created in 2003. Febelfin is located in Brussels.\n\n"}
{"id": "5556579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5556579", "title": "Flag of Cape Town", "text": "Flag of Cape Town\n\nThe flag of Cape Town is the flag used by the City of Cape Town municipality. It is not an officially registered flag, but consists of the city's logo used in flag form, and since 1996 it has changed each time the city's logo has changed.\n\nThe city's current logo was adopted in 2014 and is used on the city's flag. It consists of a rosette of four concentric rings, each made up of 6 silhouettes of Table Mountain.\n\nFrom about 2005 until 2014, the logo consisted of a white outline of Table Mountain on a rainbow brush stroke background. \n\nFrom 1996 until around 2005, the flag featured a silhouette of Table Mountain. It was created by a graphic designer and was not registered with the South African Bureau of Heraldry. The design consisted of a stylised image of Table Mountain (and neighbouring peaks Devil's Peak and Lion's Head) in white on a background of blue in the top left section and green in the top right section. Below the Table Mountain image is a yellow \"paint brush\" horizontal stripe under which is a red section at the bottom of the flag.\n\nBefore 1996, the flag consisted of the coat of arms of Cape Town on a blue field.\n"}
{"id": "33913057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33913057", "title": "Futur3", "text": "Futur3\n\nFutur3 is a theatre in Cologne, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.\n"}
{"id": "27207581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27207581", "title": "Galaxy 15", "text": "Galaxy 15\n\nGalaxy 15 is an American telecommunications satellite which is owned by Intelsat. It was launched for and originally operated by PanAmSat, and was subsequently transferred to Intelsat when the two companies merged in 2006. It was originally positioned in geostationary orbit at a longitude of 133° West, from where it was used to provide communication services to North America. In April 2010, Intelsat lost control of the satellite, and it began to drift away from its orbital slot, with the potential to cause disruption to other satellites in its path.\n\nOn 27 December 2010, Intelsat reported that the satellite had rebooted as per design and the command unit was responding to commands again. In addition, the satellite had been secured in safe mode and the potential for interference issues from Galaxy 15 had ceased. Intelsat repositioned Galaxy 15 back to its original location on April 4, 2011.\n\nGalaxyG 15 was constructed by Orbital Sciences Corporation, and was based around the GEOStar-2 satellite bus. The contract for its manufacture was signed in 2001, and at the time it was to have been identical to the Galaxy 12 and Galaxy 14 satellites which were also on order. In 2003, the contract was changed to allow the addition of more transponders to support the US Government's Geostationary Communications and Control Segment (GCCS) Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) a US Federal Aviation Administration navigation program.\n\nThe communications payload aboard Galaxy 15 consisted of 24 transponders operating in the G and H bands of the NATO electromagnetic spectrum, or the C band of the US IEEE spectrum. It also carried two C/D band (IEEE L band) transponders, which form part of the US Government's Geostationary Communications and Control Segment, and are used for aircraft navigation. At launch, the Galaxy 15 satellite had a mass of , and an expected operational lifespan of around 15 years.\n\nThe launch of Galaxy 15 was conducted by Arianespace, using an Ariane 5GS carrier rocket flying from ELA-3 at the Guiana Space Centre in Kourou, French Guiana. The launch occurred at 22:32 GMT on October 13, 2005, at the opening of an 84-minute launch window, and successfully placed Galaxy 15 into a geosynchronous transfer orbit. The French Syracuse 3A military communications satellite was launched on the same rocket. During launch, Galaxy 15 was located beneath the Syracuse spacecraft, which was mounted atop a SYLDA adaptor.\n\nFollowing separation from the carrier rocket, Galaxy 15 raised itself to geostationary orbit by means of an IHI-500N apogee motor. Its insertion into geosynchronous orbit occurred at around 19:00 on October 19, 2005.\n\nOn April 5, 2010, Galaxy 15 ceased responding to commands sent to it by controllers on the ground. However, it is unclear when the actual initial failure date was because commands are often sent by satellite operators days or even weeks apart. Without commands necessary for stationkeeping it began to drift east away from its allotted orbital slot. All television signals were transferred to other satellites and all intentional transmissions were ceased. The Galaxy 12 satellite was removed from on-orbit storage at 123° West to replace Galaxy 15 at the 133° West orbital slot. Galaxy 12 was originally slated to replace another satellite Galaxy 27 which had to be relocated to 45.1° East for the start of a mission critical service for the United States government. Due to the necessity of relocating Galaxy 12 to 133° West, Intelsat was forced to leave 129° West vacant. On 20 April, Orbital Sciences theorized that they believed solar activity was responsible for the satellite malfunctioning, although a later statement by the company said that the company had been unable to actually settle on \"a single root cause.\" On May 3, an attempt at a very momentary series of strong pulses intended to cause a power system malfunction were sent to Galaxy 15. Unfortunately, this did not have the desired effect of causing a power system overload and subsequent shut down of the active transponders. It was the concern of neighboring satellite operators that this type of recovery attempt would have had the potential to permanently damage sensitive hardware on board a satellite and could have contributed to placing a satellite into a permanent unrecoverable control state.\n\nOn May 12, 2010, Intelsat and SES World Skies confirmed that Galaxy 15 would pass close to the latter's AMC-11 satellite, potentially causing interference with cable programming over the United States because the two satellites broadcast on similar frequencies. Between May 23 and June 7, 2010, Galaxy 15 passed within half a degree of AMC-11. As the two satellites passed close to each other, particularly during closest approach on May 31 and June 1, signals from Galaxy 15's still-active transponders could have interfered with signals being broadcast by AMC-11. SES maneuvered the AMC-11 satellite to reduce the possibility of interference. The SES-1 satellite followed behind Galaxy 15 during the pass to provide a backup to AMC-11 should it be needed.\n\nOn June 2, Intelsat and SES reported that no interference had occurred during closest approach, with the satellites passing within 0.2 degrees of each other. After it had passed AMC-11, Galaxy 15 continued to drift Eastwards. Between 12 and 13 July 2010, it passed Galaxy 13/Horizons-1, a satellite located at 127.0° West which is owned jointly by Intelsat and SKY Perfect JSAT Group. The pass was not reported to have caused any disruption to broadcasts being made by Galaxy 13/Horizons-1.\n\nOn 26 July 2010, Galaxy 15 passed another Intelsat spacecraft; Galaxy 14, which is located at 125.0° West. Closest approach occurred on 30 July. On August 8, 2010, the satellite drifted toward a satellite owned by GCI, a communications company broadcasting to rural Alaska. Galaxy 15 passed Anik F2 at orbital slot 111.1° West at or near October 20 through 25, 2010. Further, the satellite continued to be watched by telecommunications companies due to the potential for interfering with C-band frequencies.\n\nOn 9 December 2010, it was reported that Galaxy 15 had potentially caused an outage to a National Weather Service NOAAPORT feed via SES-1 located at 101 west. Then on 12 December 2010, the following advisory was issued, \"A RISK HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED WHEN THE GALAXY 15 ROGUE SATELLITE TRAVERSES THE SES-1 ORBITAL POSITION WHICH MAY RESULT IN A POSSIBLE LOSS OF DATA VIA THE NWS AWIPS SBN/NOAAPORT FEED. THIS POTENTIAL INTERFERENCE MAY TAKE PLACE BETWEEN 12/12/10 AND 12/18/10 INCLUSIVE.\" To minimize interference, signals intended for SES-1 at 101 West were routed and uplinked via an 11-meter dish from the SES Americom Master Ground Station in Hawaii, which is outside the Galaxy 15 uplink footprint.\n\nThroughout the failure and drift period of Galaxy 15 status information regarding the continued operation of the two L-Band Wide Area Augmentation System Space Segment transponders once utilized by the FAA for aircraft precision location remained unknown. Prior to recovery, Galaxy 15 had been expected to pass by Inmarsat 4F3 at 98 degrees west in late December 2010. Inmarsat 4F3 has since performed some of the same WAAS mission for the FAA from 98 degrees west, that Galaxy 15 once performed at 133 west.\n\nGalaxy 15, like many communications satellites rebroadcasts the signals it receives on its uplink frequencies to the corresponding C-Band downlink frequencies. Therefore, the potential for interference only existed when Galaxy 15 drifted into the line of sight of a ground uplink segment intended for another communications satellite operating on the same uplink frequency range in the path of Galaxy 15. The magnitude of the interference risk depended on a large number of variables, including the size of the uplink antenna used (the larger the antenna, the lower the risk to hit Galaxy 15), the location of the uplink and whether inside the Galaxy 15 footprint, and the onboard gain capabilities of the satellite proximate to Galaxy 15. Satellite operators devised a variety of strategies to mitigate the potential interference to their birds' downlink transmissions including, temporarily transferring uplinks to larger uplink antenna, deliberately off-pointing uplink antennas to put Galaxy 15 into the null, maneuvering the satellite being passed to maintain a minimum angular separation, increasing the satellite's gain sensitivity settings allowing a lowering of the uplink power needed and latterly moving the uplink to a location where Galaxy 15 had no uplink coverage (i.e. Hawaii). These techniques were successfully able to reduce, mitigate and minimize for commercial satellite operations most interference potential during a Galaxy 15 fly by. Smaller sized stationary receive only sites, like those used by amateurs or SMATV which have a wider beam width reception potential, may have experienced interference, while for the most part commercial operators experienced no adverse effects from Galaxy 15 during its failure period thanks to the execution of the mitigation practices devised in the wake of the crisis.\n\nThe satellite was theorized to lose attitude control when its reaction wheels became saturated. When this event occurred, it would prevent the spacecraft's solar panels from tracking the sun, and it would shut down. After the power reset event, further attempts would be made to recover control of the satellite.\nThis event was originally predicted for late August or early September 2010, then Intelsat revised its estimate to sometime between 28 November and 29 December 2010. After subsequent criticism of the actual science behind Orbital Sciences' predictions Intelsat completely abandoned the published timeline method. Instead for a period Intelsat stated \"Based on the revised analysis, the estimated window for a Galaxy 15 off-point and loss of power could occur as early as this month\" without clarifying the month indicated. The hypothesis used to calculate the timeline of any potential occurrence of loss of power was imprecise, due to the fact the satellite has experienced\nerratic loading conditions of radio frequency signals since it began to drift. \nSix months after the initial failure date published timelines for shut down proved to be more hopes of a public relations campaign based in theory, and in an interview conducted in October 2010 during the Satcon Conference, both Intelsat & Orbital admitted that the \"hoped\" timeline scenario was, \"in theory\" and \"this has been an unprecedented situation, and we are learning as we go.\"\n\nOn 23 December 2010, Intelsat successfully regained control over the satellite after the Baseband Equipment Command Unit reset following a loss of lock and full discharge of the batteries, reportedly the most critical phases of the recovery of Galaxy 15 have been completed. The emergency command patch which would allow ground controllers to gain access to redundant BBEs in the event of a similar failure in the future had also successfully been applied to Galaxy 15 according to Intelsat. Galaxy 15 was relocated at 93° West in order to conduct further in orbit testing of the viability of the payload and return to service of the satellite. Once Galaxy 15 was fully recovered it was moved back to 133° West and then the Galaxy 12 spacecraft was relocated for its intended mission at the 129° West slot.\n\nOn 18 October 2011, Intelsat transitioned all of its 133° West customers back from Galaxy 12 to Galaxy 15.\n\n"}
{"id": "9908504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9908504", "title": "Gambling for resurrection", "text": "Gambling for resurrection\n\nGambling for resurrection is a situation in international relations when a leader weakened domestically is willing to risk war or prolong war to maintain office.\n\nLeaders who are weakened domestically often undertake risky policies to avoid undesirable developments for them personally. The fear of removal from office due to poor performance or bad luck may prompt a leader to instigate a diversionary war he or she might not rationally have started, in the hope that should it go well he or she would stay in power, or at least receiving a surge in personal popularity and patriotism to sustain them in power. Gambling for resurrection can also consist of a leader prolonging an existing war that should rationally be ended, fearing removal from office or punishment (imprisonment, exile, or death)\n. The leader thus continues the war against the country's interest, adopting risky military strategies in the hope of a dramatic reversal of fortune in the war's outcome. In this situation, escalation is more attractive than peace because the losses are below the removal threshold for the leader's constituency. Once the constituency seem determined to remove the leader from office, it has no other sanction to apply to the leader. The executive, then, has nothing to risk in further escalation, but may win his right to stay in office should the gamble be successful.\n\nIt is seldom possible to provide conclusive proof that a leader's decision to go to war or prolong war is motivated by personal or domestic political issues. However, some conflicts may be seen as Gambles for Resurrection, including:\n\n\nGambling for resurrection is often referred to in the mainstream media as \"Wag the dog,\" a reference to a 1997 film by the same name in which a fictional President of the United States starts a fake diversionary war to distract the American public from a sex scandal.\n\n"}
{"id": "43517308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43517308", "title": "Jabuka-Andrija Fault", "text": "Jabuka-Andrija Fault\n\nThe Jabuka-Andrija Fault is a seismically active thrust fault under the Adriatic Sea in Croatia. A series of earthquakes near Jabuka island, the strongest reaching a magnitude of 5.5, was caused by movements along the Jabuka-Andrija Fault.\n"}
{"id": "25686447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25686447", "title": "Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives", "text": "Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives\n\nThe Joint FAO-WHO Expert Committee Report on Food Additives was an international report of the World Health Organization. The Expert Committee commissioned to evaluate the safety for human consumption of selected food additives and contaminants and to establish acceptable daily intakes for these substances.\n\nThe report has two parts. The first part provides a general discussion of principles governing the toxicological evaluation of food additives and contaminants, the establishments and revision of specifications, and intake assessments of food additives. The second part provides succinct summaries of the toxicological data examined and factors considered when evaluating selected substances and allocating an acceptable daily intake.\n\nThe eighteenth report was released as World Health Organization Technical Report Series No. 557 in 1974.\n\nThe twenty-fifth report was released as World Health Organization Technical Report Series No. 669 in 1981.\n\nThe forty-ninth report was released as World Health Organization Technical Report Series No. 884 in 1999. Evaluations are presented in this report for one antioxidant (tert-butylhydroquinone), two emulsifiers (microcrystalline cellulose and sucrose esters of fatty acids and sucroglycerides), two enzyme preparations (alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase and maltogenic amylase), one flavoring agent (trans-anethole), one glazing agent (hydrogenated poly-1-decene), one sweetening agent (maltitol syrup), and the reduced calorie replacement for conventional fats and oils, salatrim.\n\nThe fifty third report was released as World Health Organization Technical Report Series No. 896 in 2000.\n\nThe fifty-seventh report was released as World Health Organization Technical Report Series No. 909 in 2002.\n\nThe sixty-first report was released as World Health Organization Technical Report Series No. 922 in 2004.\n\nThe sixty-third report was released as World Health Organization Technical Report Series No. 928 in 2005. The first part deals with food additives such as benzyol peroxide, cyclodextrin, hexose oxidase, lutein, hydroxy ethylidine-1, 1-diphosphonic acid, steviol glycosides, D-tagatose, xylanses from Bacillus subtilis, and zeaxanthin. The second part is dedicated to revision of specifications on aluminium powder, iron oxides and titanium oxides; aluminium lakes of coloring matters, hydroxypropyl cellulose, magnesium sulphate, polyvinyl alcohol and metal levels and arsenic specifications. The third part deals with eight groups of flavoring agents such as pyridine, pyrrole and quinoline derivatives; aliphatic and alicyclic hydrocarbons; aliphatic, linear, unsaturated aldehydes, acids and related alcohols, acetals and related esters; monocyclic and bicyclic secondary alcohols, ketones and related esters; amino acid and related substances; tetrahydrofuran and furanone derivatives and Phenyl substituted aliphatic alcohols and related aldehydes and esters. The fourth part deals with safety aspects related to glycyrrhizinic acid, and its monoammonium salt as a natural constituent of liquorice and its use as a flavoring substance in various food products.\n\n"}
{"id": "36416376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36416376", "title": "Kindamba Airport", "text": "Kindamba Airport\n\nKindamba Airport is an airstrip serving the village of Kindamba, Republic of the Congo. The runway is southwest of the village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5496681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5496681", "title": "La Colle, Monaco", "text": "La Colle, Monaco\n\nLa Colle is a north western residential area; part of the traditional \"Quartier\" of Moneghetti in the Principality of Monaco. It is also one of the ten modern administrative \"Wards\" of Monaco.\n\nLa Colle lies on the north western side of the country, just north of Fontvieille. La Colle is generally considered part of Moneghetti, even though it is its own administrative \"Ward\". It runs directly along the neighboring French towns of Beausoleil, and Cap-d'Ail, as well as the Monégasque \"Wards\" of Les Révoires, Fontvieille, and Moneghetti.\n\nLa Colle is the second smallest \"Ward\" in Monaco in terms of population (Monaco-Ville is the smallest), and the third smallest in terms of land size. La Colle has a population of 2,829 and an area of . \n\nMonaco has ten state-operated schools, four private schools, and one university. One state school and one private school are located in La Colle.\n\nLa Colle is more of an industrial area, but some small hotels can be found here, helping Monaco's high end tourist industry.\n\nLa Colle takes after Fontvieille in being one of the more industrial areas in Monaco. For instance Venturi and its subsidiary Voxan have an eco-friendly factory located here. Its location within Monaco helps to expedite shipping; located more on the outside of the city, manufacturing causes little problem to Monaco's high end tourist industry.\n\nEven though La Colle is more industrialized, there is real estate along the Les Révoires-La Colle border. Because La Colle's location more outside the city center, its real estate sales are generally less. Averaging 13% to 18% less than neighboring Fontvieille or La Condamine.\n\nPrincess Grace Hospital, Monaco's only hospital is located in the westernmost portion of La Colle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30610427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30610427", "title": "Lepo je biti sosed", "text": "Lepo je biti sosed\n\nLepo je biti sosed \"(It's nice to be neighbours)\" is a Slovenian television series, which started filming in 2008 and after six seasons, ended May 2011. The broadcast television series called POP TV in the Monday evening slot (20.00), its director was Jemeršič Ven. The first three seasons are copied from the original Slovak. The plot tells about two neighbouring families with good relationships.\n\nThe storyline is about two couples, who live across the hallway to each other. The first couple are Žuža (formally Branka), the seller of high-quality products and Beno, the hunter. They have a daughter; Lidija, but she doesn't appear during season 1 nor is she mentioned. The second couple are Silvika, immigrant from Hungary and Ivo, who is a handyman. They moved into their apartment during the pilot episode, however they knew Beno and Žuža prior to moving in.\n\nDuring series many recurring characters appeared. The first season recurring characters Vanessa Z and mailman were portrayed by popular singers Anika Horvat and Fredi Miler.\n\nThe first-season episodes are 40 minutes long (30 minutes without commercials), however episodes in the following season were 60 minutes long (45 minutes without commercials). Episodes were shown on a Monday at 20:00 CET.\n\nThe plot tells about two neighbouring families with good relationships.\n"}
{"id": "11133242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11133242", "title": "Lush 99.5FM", "text": "Lush 99.5FM\n\nLush 99.5FM was a radio station which plays a distinct brand of music, consisting of Indie, Independent and Electronic music.\n\nLush 99.5FM was the first English radio station in Singapore to be located in a shopping mall (Orchard Central #02-02), and was also the first MediaCorp radio station to move out of Caldecott Hill on 20 August 2009. Lush 99.5FM's last day of tenancy at Orchard Central was 7 July 2012; the station has since moved back to Caldecott Hill. Lush 99.5FM moved again to the brand new Mediacorp Campus, Mediapolis @ one-north, on 17 January 2017.\n\nEvery week, various guest DJs would be invited on The Lush Mix, which airs on Saturdays from 8pm and repeats on weekdays from 9pm.\n\nLush 99.5FM has ceased transmission since Sep 1 2017 as part of a rationalization of Mediacorp's network of radio stations.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10253113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10253113", "title": "Lusitana paixão", "text": "Lusitana paixão\n\n\"Lusitana paixão\" (\"Lusitanian passion\") was the Portuguese entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1991, performed in Portuguese by Dulce.\n\nThe song is a ballad, with Dulce singing about the fado music of her native country. She sings that on the surface, this is a style of very sad music, with a focus on \"longing\" and \"love from the past\". As the song develops, though, she explains that this is a style of song which is perfect for her feelings, in that it \"doesn't make me regret\".\n\nThe song was performed twelfth on the night, following Ireland's Kim Jackson with \"Could It Be That I'm In Love\" and preceding Denmark's Anders Frandsen with \"Lige der hvor hjertet slår\". At the close of voting, it had received 62 points, placing 8th in a field of 22.\n\nIt was succeeded as Portuguese representative at the 1992 contest by Dina with \"Amor d'água fresca\".\n"}
{"id": "33967796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33967796", "title": "Lviv Secondary School No. 50", "text": "Lviv Secondary School No. 50\n\nSchool № 50 - the school of Russian and Ukrainian languages of instruction. Also known as \"Poltinnik.\"\n\nLocated at - the city of Lviv, street Komaryntsya, 2.\n\n\nThe school introduced a special course of museum pedagogy.\n\nOne of the first graduates was future world champion, double Olympic bronze medalist from the long jump Igor Ter-Hovhannisyan, which in years was engaged in DYUSSH number 2 at the school.\n\nIn 2005 and 2008 s School team became the winner of Chemists young Ukrainian tournament (in Kiev e and Evpatoria, respectively).\n\nSummer 2009 the year, 11-student class Neschadin Andrew won a bronze medal at the International Chemistry Olympiad in London\n\n"}
{"id": "9712273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9712273", "title": "Merieme Chadid", "text": "Merieme Chadid\n\nMerieme Chadid (born October 11, 1969 in Casablanca) is a Moroccan-French astronomer, explorer and researcher at the University of Nice Sophia Antipolis. In 2005, she led an international scientific program to install a major astronomical observatory at Dome Charlie in the heart of Antarctica.\n\nChadid received her Ph.D from the Paul Sabatier University, Toulouse, in 1996, discovering and explaining hypersonic shock waves in pulsating stars. She then joined the Centre national de la recherche scientifique in Montpelier. From 1998 to 2001 she worked on installation of the Very Large Telescope in Chile and in 2002 joined the Conseil national des Astronomes.\n\nIn 2005 Chadid lead her first expedition to install telescopes for a new astronomical observatory in the heart of Antarctica. She was the first woman astronomer to set foot in Antarctica and the first to place the Moroccan flag at the South pole.\n\n"}
{"id": "37912475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37912475", "title": "Mono people (Congo)", "text": "Mono people (Congo)\n\nThe Mono people are a Sub-Saharan people of the Sudanic cluster residing on land adjacent to the northwestern border of the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2069177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069177", "title": "Movement for the National Independence of Angola", "text": "Movement for the National Independence of Angola\n\nThe Movement for the National Independence of Angola (in Portuguese: \"Movimento para a Independência Nacional de Angola\") was a political party in Angola, formed in 1958. MINA later merged with other parties to form the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA).\n"}
{"id": "49348286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49348286", "title": "Omboué Hospital Airport", "text": "Omboué Hospital Airport\n\nOmboué Airport is an airport serving Omboué in Ogooué-Maritime Province, Gabon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38323409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38323409", "title": "Piatroŭščyna (Minsk Metro)", "text": "Piatroŭščyna (Minsk Metro)\n\nPiatroŭščhyna (; ) is a Minsk Metro station. It was opened on November 7, 2012 along with the metro stations of Hrušaŭka and Michalova.\n"}
{"id": "14505363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14505363", "title": "Professional Association of Magistrates", "text": "Professional Association of Magistrates\n\nThe Professional Association of Magistrates () is one of the five Spanish, professional associations of judges and magistrates. Since judges and magistrates in Spain are barred from joining trade unions, professional associations such as APM have adopted the traditional union role of protecting their employment rights and conditions. APM is the biggest professional association of judges and magistrates in Spain and is considered to be ideologically conservative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11688300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11688300", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Tokyo", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Tokyo\n\nThe Roman Catholic Metropolitan Archdiocese of Tokyo (, ) is an ecclesiastical territory or diocese of the Roman Catholic Church in Japan. It was erected as the Apostolic Vicariate of Japan on May 1, 1846, by Pope Gregory XVI, and its name was later changed by Pope Pius IX to the Apostolic Vicariate of Northern Japan on May 22, 1876.\n\nIt was elevated to the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Tokyo by Pope Leo XIII on June 15, 1891, with the suffragan sees of Niigata, Saitama, Sapporo, Sendai, and Yokohama.\n\nTarcisio Isao Kikuchi, S.V.D., currently serving as Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Niigata, was appointed Archbishop of the Tokyo Archdiocese on October 25, 2017.\n\nThe Evangelization of Japan starts in 1549 with the arrival of Saint Francis Xavier and goes on until 1587 when Toyotomi Hideyoshi issued the edict forbidding Christianity and ordering all missionaries to leave Japan. In the following years of persecution, also in Edo (now Tokyo), there were cases of martyrdom in 1612 and 1623.\n\nAfter the “seclusion period”, the first missionaries of the Paris Mission Society arrived in Japan in 1858 and were stationed in the three ports of Nagasaki, Yokohama and Hakodate.\n\nOn 1 May 1846, Vicariate Apostolic of Japan was erected.\n\nOn 22 May 1876, the vicariate apostolic was divided in two: the Apostolic Vicariate of Southern Japan with its center in Nagasaki and Apostolic Vicariate of Northern Japan with its center in Tokyo. Pierre Marie Osouf was the first Ordinary (Catholic Church) of the Apostolic Vicariate of Northern Japan.\n\nOn April 17, 1891. the Vicariate Apostolic of Northern Japan was divided into the Archdiocese of Tokyo and the Diocese of Hakodate. Pierre Marie Osouf became the first Archbishop of Tokyo.\n\nOn August 13, 1912, the Archdiocese of Tokyo ceded the prefectures of Toyama, Fukui and Ishikawa to the newly established Prefecture Apostolic of Niigata, and on February 18, 1922, the prefectures of Aichi and Gifu were ceded to the newly established Prefecture Apostolic of Nagoya.\n\nIn November 1937, Tokyo was entrusted to the Japanese clergy and confined to Tokyo-to and the Chiba Prefecture. The remaining territory was detached to form the Diocese of Yokohama. The first Archbishop selected from among the Japanese clergy was Archbishop Peter Tatsu Doi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12306868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12306868", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Moundou", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Moundou\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Moundou () is a diocese in Moundou in the Ecclesiastical province of N'Djamena in Chad.\n\n\nThe Cathedral is the Cathédrale du Sacré-Cœur in Moundou.\n\n\nRoman Catholicism in Chad\n\n"}
{"id": "12579992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12579992", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Nnewi", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Nnewi\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Nnewi () is a diocese located in the city of Nnewi in the Ecclesiastical province of Onitsha in Nigeria.\n\n\nThe Cathedral is Cathedral of Our Lady of Assumption in Nnewi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7432193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7432193", "title": "Round the Clock (radio)", "text": "Round the Clock (radio)\n\nRound The Clock is an English internet radio service from China Radio International. The broadcast basically rotates between \"China Drive\" and the following weekly programs:\n\n\nOn the weekends when \"China Drive\" is not available, the following programs are also broadcast:\n\n"}
{"id": "5423854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5423854", "title": "Swedish Police Union", "text": "Swedish Police Union\n\nThe Swedish Police Union (Polisförbundet) is a trade union in Sweden. It has a membership of 18,500 (including police academy students), and is affiliated with the Swedish Confederation of Professional Employees, and EuroCOP. It also maintains contact with the Swedish branch of the International Police Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "11299651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11299651", "title": "The McGuire Twins", "text": "The McGuire Twins\n\nBilly Leon McCrary (December 7, 1946 – July 14, 1979) and Benny Loyd McCrary (December 7, 1946 – March 26, 2001), known together as The McGuire Twins, were American professional wrestlers listed in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" as the \"World's Heaviest Twins\" ( and , respectively).\n\nBorn in Hendersonville, North Carolina, the twins began using the stage name McGuire and gained popularity as tag-team wrestlers and in carnival stunt shows.\n\nBilly McCrary died on July 14, 1979, at the age of 32, following a motorcycle accident in Niagara Falls en route to Ripley's Believe It or Not!. Benny lived for 21 more years, until his death at age 54 on March 26, 2001 of heart failure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7259999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7259999", "title": "The War Is Not Over", "text": "The War Is Not Over\n\n\"The War Is Not Over\" was Latvia's entry in the 2005 Eurovision Song Contest, performed in English by Valters & Kaža.\n\nThe song is a gentle ballad with somewhat elliptical lyrics. The duo sings, \"The war is not over, everyone knows it/It's just a reason to make us believe/That someone's the loser, someone's the winner\", which can be interpreted as a call to their listeners not to believe what official sources say.\n\nEarly recordings featured the lyrics \"That someone is loser, that someone is winner\". These were replaced by the above line in deference to English grammar.\n\nThe duo performed the song seated on stools with acoustic guitars. The final chorus, however, was performed standing up and using sign language to accompany the lyrics.\n\nAs Latvia had not qualified for the finals at the 2004 Contest, the song was performed in the semi-finals. It was performed fifth, following Moldova's Zdob şi Zdub with \"Boonika bate doba\" and preceding Monaco's Lise Darly with \"Tout de moi\". At the close of voting, it had received 85 points, placing 10th in a field of 25 and thus qualifying for the finals (the top ten did so).\n\nIn the finals, the song was performed twenty-third, following Estonia's Vanilla Ninja representing Switzerland with \"Cool Vibes\" and preceding France's Ortal with \"Chacun pense à soi\". At the close of voting, it had received 153 points, placing 5th in a field of 24, thus qualifying Latvia for the finals at their next Contest appearance.\n\nThe song had received 12 points from Ireland, Lithuania and Moldova.\n\nIt was succeeded as Latvian representative at the 2006 Contest by Cosmos with \"I Hear Your Heart\".\n\nThis song was later recorded by the Danish pop-group Michael Learns to Rock on their \"Eternity\"-album released in 2008.\n\n\"The War Is Not Over\" song composer Mārtiņš Freimanis died on 27 January 2011, aged 32.\n\nSinger Valters Frīdenbergs died on 17 October 2018, aged 30.\n"}
