{"id": "2400728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400728", "title": "9th Wonder", "text": "9th Wonder\n\nPatrick Denard Douthit (born January 15, 1975), better known as 9th Wonder, is a hip hop record producer, record executive, DJ, lecturer, and rapper from Midway, North Carolina, U.S. He began his career as the main producer for the group Little Brother in Durham, North Carolina, and has also worked with Mary J. Blige, Jean Grae, Wale, Jay-Z, Murs, Drake, Buckshot, Chris Brown, Destiny's Child, J. Cole, Kendrick Lamar, Erykah Badu, Ludacris, Mac Miller, David Banner, Lecrae, Jill Scott, Big Boi, Rapsody, and Anderson .Paak. As of 2010, 9th Wonder raps under the name of 9thmatic. 9th Wonder has a smooth and soulful production style that builds on samples from artists such as Al Green and Curtis Mayfield.\n\n9th Wonder's first significant career breakthrough came in 2003 when, as an up-and-coming producer, he released an unofficial remix album of Nas' 2002 album \"God's Son\" entitled \"God's Stepson\". Released through internet outlets, the album garnered significant attention and acclaim. The producer has said that he was not thinking in terms of using it to generate a buzz or promote his skills at that point: \"I never thought any of this of me as a producer was going to happen.\" The album has since been credited as starting the now regular trend for unofficial 'home-made' remixes of whole albums.\n\n9th Wonder began his career as the main producer for the group Little Brother. As part of Little Brother he gained recognition and critical acclaim for his production on their debut 2003 release, \"The Listening\". Jay-Z's studio engineer Young Guru was impressed with his work, and contacted 9th Wonder, which led to 9th Wonder producing \"Threat\" for Jay-Z's 2003 \"The Black Album\". The cut proved to be a mainstream breakthrough for 9th Wonder, most immediately in the major production role he secured on Destiny's Child's 2004 \"Destiny Fulfilled\" album that Jay-Z was instrumental in helping bring about. On the album, 9th Wonder produced the tracks \"Girl\" and \"Is She the Reason,\" plus the bonus track \"Game Over\".\n\n9th Wonder left Little Brother in 2007.\n\nOn October 29, 2007, 9th Wonder made a rare public appearance on BET's \"Rap City\", alongside collaborator Talib Kweli. Madlib, Jean Grae and Erykah Badu appeared as well. In 2010, he appeared on BET's \"106 & Park\" countdown with David Banner.\n\n9th Wonder, E. Jones, and rapper J. Cole served as the lead producers of the soundtrack to the EA Sports video game \"NBA Elite 11\". 9th Wonder and J. Cole also appear as \"secret characters\" in \"NBA Jam\" with a team name of Cole & Wonder.\n\n9th Wonder debuted his rapping alter-ego 9thmatic in late 2009. 9thmatic appeared on songs with Khrysis and Sean Boog, Big Remo, Murs and Thee Tom Hardy.\n\n9th Wonder worked with Mississippi rapper David Banner on a collaborative album entitled \"Death of a Pop Star\" which was released on December 21, 2010. After forming Jamla Records in 2010, he then went on produce for Jill Scott, Dilated Peoples, Big Boi of Outkast, and Anderson .Paak.\n\nIn January 2009, 9th Wonder announced plans to start two independent record labels, Jamla and The Academy, under his imprint It's A Wonderful World Music Group (IWWMG). Jamla originally consisted of Skyzoo, GQ, Rapsody, Tyler Woods and Big Remo, while The Academy consisted of Thee Tom Hardy, Actual Proof (Sundown & Enigma), TP, and The Away Team (Khrysis & Sean Boog). The Academy artists were later folded into the Jamla label. Halo and Heather Victoria were announced as the newest members of IWWMG in October 2010. Jamla Records now consists of artists GQ, Rapsody, Actual Proof, TP, Halo, & Heather Victoria.\n\nIn July 2004 a.d., 9th Wonder officially debuted his production team for IWWMG. The Soul Council consists of Khrysis, E. Jones, Ka$h Don't Make Beats, AMP, Eric G., Nottz, Hi-Tek and 9th Wonder himself.\n\nIn 2010, independent filmmaker Kenneth Price documented 9th Wonder's travels for an entire year. This included his times in the studio, classes he taught at Duke University, and performances with Murs at the 2010 Rock the Bells Festival, along with interviews with 9th Wonder about his life and career. All of this was compiled in a Lifted Research Group-sponsored documentary film titled \"The Wonder Year\". The film features appearances by Drake, DJ Premier, DJ Green Lantern, J. Cole, Murs, Lucas Rivers, Sha Money XL, Young Guru, The Alchemist and others. Price went on to direct music videos for artists on 9th Wonder's Jamla Records label. In 2016, 9th Wonder's Jamla Records imprint signed a joint venture with Jay-Z and Roc Nation.\n\nIn August 2010, Drake exchanged tweets with 9th Wonder on Twitter, expressing his desire to work with him again (the first time being the production of \"Think Good Thoughts\" featuring Phonte and Elzhi for his 2007 mixtape \"Comeback Season\"). It was revealed in October 2010 that 9th Wonder would be producing for Drake on his second album \"Take Care\", which was released on November 15, 2011. However, a month prior to the release, 9th Wonder said in an interview that he would not appear on \"Take Care\" due to A&R issues.\n\nSinger Chris Brown recorded a series of rap freestyles over 9th Wonder beats. The first was released on July 18, 2011, on YouTube under the title \"Real Hip Hop #3.\" This was followed a day later by \"Real Hip Hop #4\" featuring Kevin McCall. These tracks were included in Brown's rap mixtape \"Boy In Detention\", released on August 5, 2011.\n\n9th Wonder produced Jill Scott's \"Beautiful Love\" ft. BJ The Chicago Kid on her 2015 album release \"Woman\". Rising Star Anderson .Paak also sought out 9th Wonder's production for \"The Season\" and \"Without You\" featuring Rapsody on his breakthrough release \"Malibu\" released coincidentally on 9th Wonder's birthday, January 15, 2016. 9th Wonder also collaborated with Big Boi of Outkast for the song \"Put It On Her\" for his release Big Grams in 2015. In 2017, Kendrick Lamar tapped 9th Wonder to produce DUCKWORTH., the final track on his 4th studio album, \"DAMN\", where Kendrick tells the backstory of the meeting between his father and Anthony Tiffith, also known as \"Top Dawg\" from TDE.\n\n2007 saw a sideline move into music academia for 9th Wonder when he, along with Christopher \"Play\" Martin from hip hop group Kid-n-Play, was appointed Artist-In-Residence by the Chancellor of North Carolina Central University, and began instructing a hip hop history class in NCCU's Music Dept.\n\nHis role as a music professor has proven an ongoing one as in January 2010 it was announced that 9th Wonder would co-teach a class titled \"Sampling Soul\" with Dr. Mark Anthony Neal at Duke University. In an interview with HitQuarters, he explained the reason for the move into academia: \"Educating the youth on where hip-hop comes from and the history of it, using the records we use, gives hip-hop a longer life. I decided to become an advocate of that.\" 9th Wonder also recently took on a course titled \"Intro To Hip Hop Production\" \n\n9th has only continued his trek into the world of education, recently receiving acceptance from Harvard University to become a fellow in the Hip Hop Archive. 9th will spend three years working on a research project at Harvard’s W.E.B. Dubois Institute. For 9th's project titled \"These Are The Breaks\" he will be researching the original records that created his top 10 produced albums. He recently told XXL that he one day hopes to leave producing behind for good to focus on academics. A documentary also created by Kenneth Price, \"The Hip-Hop Fellow\" chronicled 9th becoming a W.E.B. Dubois Fellow at Harvard University under the direction Dr. Henry Louis Gates, Jr. and Dr. Marcy Morgan at the Dubois Institute at The Hutchins Center.\n\nHe has continued his involvement with higher education by lecturing at various universities across the United States. In September 2012, 9th Wonder visited the University of Michigan to speak on his beginnings in the music industry and hip hop's role in the classroom. His involvement with some of the top academic institutions in the country has validated hip hop as a true art form. 9th Wonder served as Artist In Residence at the University of Pennsylvania in the Spring of 2016. In March 2017, 9th Wonder was the Artist in Residence at the University of Virginia, giving his final lecture in The Rotunda on the University grounds. Several other hip hop artists have found themselves on similar paths into the education realm including Questlove of The Roots and Bun B of UGK. 9th is currently Artist of Residence at North Carolina Central University and Duke University.\n\n9th Wonder was also appointed to the Executive Committee of Hip-Hop and Rap at The National Museum of African American History and Culture at The Smithsonian in Washington, DC. He also has an exhibit on the 4th Floor in the Music Crossroads Section.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22133940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22133940", "title": "Agnes of Bohemia, Duchess of Jawor", "text": "Agnes of Bohemia, Duchess of Jawor\n\nAgnes of Bohemia (, ) (1305–1337) was the only child of King Wenceslaus II of Bohemia by his second wife, Elisabeth Richeza of Poland. She was a member of the Přemyslid dynasty.\n\nHer father's previous marriage to Judith of Habsburg had produced four surviving children, Wenceslaus III of Bohemia, Anna of Bohemia, Elisabeth of Bohemia and Margaret of Bohemia. Wenceslaus II died in 1305 and his heir Wenceslaus III was assassinated one year later, in Olomouc, on his way to Poland.\n\nAgnes' mother, Elisabeth, subsequently married Rudolph III, son of Albert of Habsburg (King of the Romans) on 16 October 1306. Rudolph was chosen to be King of Bohemia by part of Czech nobility and Elisabeth remained queen for a short time. Rudolph died 4 July 1307 of dysentery after becoming ill during the siege of the fortress of one of revolting noblemen, Bavor III of Strakonice. In his last will, Rudolph acknowledged Elizabeth's dowry towns and entailed her a huge amount of money.\n\nElisabeth arranged for Agnes to marry Henry I of Jawor. The wedding took place in 1316, however, because the two were related in the fourth degree of kinship, a papal dispensation was required. It was granted in 1325. Agnes' brother in law, King John of Bohemia opposed the marriage, which would make Henry a powerful rival, along with Bolesław III the Generous, the husband of Margaret of Bohemia, a half-sister of Agnes. \n\nShortly after the wedding and, with the consent of Elisabeth, Henry I went with his troops to her dowry town , Hradec Králové in North Bohemia, where he organized expeditions to support rebels against King John of Bohemia.\n\nAgnes had only one pregnancy which ended in a miscarriage, in the first trimester, when she rode with her horse over a hill. This accident kept her in bed for many months. Agnes died in 1337, only two years after her mother and nine years before her husband. \n\n"}
{"id": "1174240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174240", "title": "Baroreflex", "text": "Baroreflex\n\nThe baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is one of the body's homeostatic mechanisms that helps to maintain blood pressure at nearly constant levels. The baroreflex provides a rapid negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes the heart rate to decrease and also causes blood pressure to decrease. Decreased blood pressure decreases baroreflex activation and causes heart rate to increase and to restore blood pressure levels. The baroreflex can begin to act in less than the duration of a cardiac cycle (fractions of a second) and thus baroreflex adjustments are key factors in dealing with postural hypotension, the tendency for blood pressure to decrease on standing due to gravity.\n\nThe system relies on specialized neurons, known as baroreceptors, in the aortic arch, carotid sinuses, and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the Medulla. Baroreceptors are stretch receptors and respond to the pressure induced stretching of the blood vessel in which they are found. Baroreflex induced changes in blood pressure are mediated by both branches of the autonomic nervous system: the parasympathetic and sympathetic nerves. Baroreceptors are active even at normal blood pressures so that their activity informs the brain about both increases and decreases in blood pressure.\n\nThe body contains two other, slower acting systems to regulate blood pressure: the heart releases atrial natriuretic peptide when blood pressure is too high, and the kidneys sense and correct low blood pressure with the renin–angiotensin system.\n\nBaroreceptors are present in the atria of the heart and vena cavae, but the most sensitive baroreceptors are in the carotid sinuses and aortic arch. While the carotid sinus baroreceptor axons travel within the glossopharyngeal nerve (CN IX), the aortic arch baroreceptor axons travel within the vagus nerve (CN X). Baroreceptor activity travels along these nerves directly into the central nervous system to contact neurons within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) in the brainstem. Baroreceptor information flows from these NTS neurons to both parasympathetic and sympathetic neurons within the brainstem.\n\nThe NTS neurons send excitatory fibers (glutamatergic) to the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM), activating the CVLM. The activated CVLM then sends inhibitory fibers (GABAergic) to the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), thus inhibiting the RVLM. The RVLM is the primary regulator of the sympathetic nervous system, sending excitatory fibers (glutamatergic) to the sympathetic preganglionic neurons located in the intermediolateral nucleus of the spinal cord. Hence, when the baroreceptors are activated (by an increased blood pressure), the NTS activates the CVLM, which in turn inhibits the RVLM, thus decreasing the activity of the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system, leading to a relative decrease in blood pressure. Likewise, low blood pressure activates baroreceptors less and causes an increase in sympathetic tone via \"disinhibition\" (less inhibition, hence activation) of the RVLM. Cardiovascular targets of the sympathetic nervous system includes both blood vessels and the heart.\n\nEven at resting levels of blood pressure, arterial baroreceptor discharge activates NTS neurons. Some of these NTS neurons are tonically activated by this resting blood pressure and thus activate excitatory fibers to the nucleus ambiguus and Dorsal nucleus of vagus nerve to regulate the parasympathetic nervous system. These parasympathetic neurons send axons to the heart and parasympathetic activity slows cardiac pacemaking and thus heart rate. This parasympathetic activity is further increased during conditions of elevated blood pressure. Note that the parasympathetic nervous system is primarily directed toward the heart.\n\nThe baroreceptors are stretch-sensitive mechanoreceptors. At low pressures, baroreceptors become inactive. When blood pressure rises, the carotid and aortic sinuses are distended further, resulting in increased stretch and, therefore, a greater degree of activation of the baroreceptors. At normal resting blood pressures, many baroreceptors are actively reporting blood pressure information and the baroreflex is actively modulating autonomic activity. Active baroreceptors fire action potentials (\"spikes\") more frequently. The greater the stretch the more rapidly baroreceptors fire action potentials. Many individual baroreceptors are inactive at normal resting pressures and only become activated when their stretch or pressure threshold is exceeded.\n\nBaroreceptor action potentials are relayed to the solitary nucleus, which uses frequency as a measure of blood pressure. Increased activation of the solitary nucleus inhibits the vasomotor center and stimulates the vagal nuclei. The end-result of baroreceptor activation is inhibition of the sympathetic nervous system and activation of the parasympathetic nervous system.\n\nThe sympathetic and parasympathetic branches of the autonomic nervous system have opposing effects on blood pressure. Sympathetic activation leads to an elevation of total peripheral resistance and cardiac output via increased contractility of the heart, heart rate, and arterial vasoconstriction, which tends to increase blood pressure. Conversely, parasympathetic activation leads to decreased cardiac output via decrease in heart rate, resulting in a tendency to lower blood pressure.\n\nBy coupling sympathetic inhibition and parasympathetic activation, the baroreflex maximizes blood pressure reduction. Sympathetic inhibition leads to a drop in peripheral resistance, while parasympathetic activation leads to a depressed heart rate (reflex bradycardia) and contractility. The combined effects will dramatically decrease blood pressure.\n\nIn a similar manner, sympathetic activation with parasympathetic inhibition allows the baroreflex to elevate blood pressure.\n\nBaroreceptor firing has an inhibitory effect on sympathetic outflow. The sympathetic neurons fire at different rates which determines the release of norepinephrine onto cardiovascular targets. Norepinephrine constricts blood vessels to increase blood pressure. When baroreceptors are stretched (due to an increased blood pressure) their firing rate increases which in turn decreases the sympathetic outflow resulting in reduced norepinephrine and thus blood pressure. When the blood pressure is low, baroreceptor firing is reduced and this in turn results in augmented sympathetic outflow and increased norepinephrine release on the heart and blood vessels, increasing blood pressure.\n\nThe baroreflex may be responsible for a part of the low-frequency component of heart rate variability, the so-called Mayer waves, at 0.1 Hz. \n\nThe baroreflex can be used clinically to treat hypertension. As of 2018, there have been 7 clinical studies.\nThese have shown that stimulation of the baroreceptors from a pacemaker-like device lowers blood pressure in people with treatment-resistant hypertension.\n\nThe observed reduction in systolic blood pressure at the longest available follow-up is 36mmHg (359 patients). In the first 6 months the average blood pressure drop is 21 mmHg (307 patients). For patients in Europe, baroreflex activation therapy devices have received the CE Mark for treatment of resistant hypertension.\n\nThe ability of baroreflex activation therapy to reduce sympathetic nerve activity suggests a potential in the treatment of chronic heart failure, because in this condition there is often intense sympathetic activation and patients with such sympathetic activation show a markedly increased risk of fatal arrhythmias and death.\n\nOne trial has already shown that baroreflex activation therapy improves functional status, quality of life, exercise capacity and N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide.\n\nThe BeAT-HF randomized controlled trial is now underway in the USA and Europe to assess effects on symptoms, exercise capacity and blood markers of heart failure, and will continue to address morbidity and mortality..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42589537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42589537", "title": "Beauclerk (English cricketer)", "text": "Beauclerk (English cricketer)\n\nBeauclerk (first name and details of birth and death unknown) was an English cricketer with probably amateur status who was active in 1831. He made his first-class debut in 1831 and appeared in one match as an unknown handedness batsman whose bowling style is unknown, playing in an A to K \"versus\" L to Z match organised by Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC). Possibly related to Lord Frederick Beauclerk, he scored no runs with a highest score of 0* and took no wickets.\n"}
{"id": "10218426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10218426", "title": "Bess Houdini", "text": "Bess Houdini\n\nWilhelmina Beatrice Rahner (January 23, 1876 – February 11, 1943), better known as Bess Houdini, was the stage assistant and wife of Harry Houdini.\n\nWilhelmina Beatrice Rahner was born in Brooklyn, New York (before New York City was consolidated) in 1876 to German immigrants Gebhard Rahner (a cabinet maker) and Balbina Rahner (née Bugel).\n\nBess was working at Coney Island in a song and dance act called The Floral Sisters when she was first courted by Houdini's younger brother, Theo (aka Theodore Hardeen). But it was the older Houdini brother, Harry, that she fell in love with and married on June 22, 1894. The pair worked as The Houdinis for several years before Houdini hit it big as The Handcuff King. But he and Bess continued to occasionally perform their signature trick, Metamorphosis, throughout his career. Bess also looked after their menagerie of pets, collected dolls, and made the costumes for Houdini's full evening roadshow. The Houdinis remained childless throughout their marriage. Bess's niece, Marie Hinson Blood, said Bess suffered from a medical condition that prevented her from having children.\n\nAfter Houdini died on October 31, 1926, Bess opened a tea house in New York, and briefly performed a vaudeville act in which she froze a man in ice. In the 1930s she moved to Hollywood, California, and worked to promote Houdini's memory along with her manager and partner, Edward Saint. On Halloween 1936, Bess and Saint conducted a \"Final Houdini Séance\" on the roof of the Knickerbocker Hotel in Hollywood. At the conclusion of the failed séance, beside a photograph of Houdini, she put out the candle that was said to have burned for ten years. In 1943 she said \"ten years [was] long enough to wait for any man.\"\n\nAfter the 1936 séance, Bess passed the torch to Walter B. Gibson writer of the famous mystery series \"The Shadow\" and friend, confidant, publicist and ghostwriter for Houdini, and asked him to carry on the yearly tribute, who held them for many years at New York's Magic Towne House with such magical notables as Houdini biographers Walter B. Gibson and Milbourne Christopher. Before he died, Walter passed on the tradition to Dorothy Dietrich.\n\nBess Houdini died from a heart attack on February 11, 1943 while in Needles, California, aboard an eastbound train traveling from Los Angeles to New York City. She was 67 years old. Her family would not allow her to be interred with her late husband at the Machpelah Cemetery in Queens, New York as she had been raised a Roman Catholic and he was a Jew. She is interred instead at Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, New York.\n\nBess Houdini appeared as herself in the 1938 film \"Religious Racketeers\" (a.k.a. \"Mystic Circle Murder\") directed by Frank O'Conner and produced by Fanchon Royer. In the film, she expressed her belief that communication with those who have died is impossible. The film sparked controversy among spiritualists, but was praised by magicians. It was released on DVD in 2006 by Alpha Video.\n\nBess has been portrayed in film by Janet Leigh (\"Houdini\", 1953), Sally Struthers (\"The Great Houdini\", 1976), Stacy Edwards (\"Houdini\", 1998), and Kristen Connolly (\"Houdini\", 2014). On stage she has been played by Judith Bruce (\"Man of Magic\", 1966), Viviane Thomas (\"Houdini - A Circus Opera\", 1979), Kim Lores (\"The Great Houdini\", 1999), and Evanna Lynch (\"Houdini,\" 2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "44329893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44329893", "title": "Bob Bolam", "text": "Bob Bolam\n\nRobert Coltman Bolam (28 February 1896 – 1964) was an English footballer who made 79 appearances in the Football League playing as an outside forward, mainly at outside right, for Sheffield United, Darlington, South Shields and Queens Park Rangers.\n\nBolam was the eighth of nine children of William Bolam, a general labourer, and his wife Margaret Agnes. He was born and raised in Birtley, County Durham, and at the time of the 1911 Census, was working as a driver in a colliery. He served in the Royal Navy during the First World War.\n\nAfter the war, Bolam joined Football League First Division club Sheffield United. He made his debut in a 2–0 win against then league leaders, West Bromwich Albion, in February 1920, and in March, he scored, as well as creating several chances, in a 3–2 defeat at Sunderland in Charles Buchan's benefit match. According to the \"Telegraph and Star\", \"he is speedy and invariably puts across a good ball, whilst his ability to use both feet enables him to meet his man with confidence and success\". But he was unable to keep his place, and at the end of the 1921–22 season, was not included on the club's retained list, and signed for Darlington of the Third Division.\n\nHe went straight into the starting eleven, and opened the scoring in a 4–0 defeat of Accrington Stanley in his second match, but soon lost his place, played only 12 games over the season, and moved on again, this time to South Shields. A match preview in the \"Derby Daily Telegraph\" suggested his problem was temperamental: he \"can play on either wing, and in the mood can be really dangerous, but he allows himself to become irritated, and goes off his game very easily.\" He began well for South Shields, with the only goal of the Second Division fixture against Blackpool, and played regularly, making 32 league appearances, but still left for yet another club at the end of the season. He played twice in the Third Division South for Queens Park Rangers, and retired from football in the summer of 1925.\n\nBolam returned to the north-east of England, where he had married Mary Nicholson in 1924. He died in 1964, aged 68, in Gateshead.\n"}
{"id": "660619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660619", "title": "Bolesław-Jerzy II", "text": "Bolesław-Jerzy II\n\nBolesław-Jerzy II (1305/1310 – April 7, 1340) was a ruler of the Polish Piast dynasty who ruled the originally Ruthenian principality of Galicia. After his death started the Galicia–Volhynia Wars over succession of Galicia and Volhynia.\n\nBolesław was born between 1305 and 1310 to Trojden I of Masovia from the Piast dynasty, Duke of Czersk and Maria, daughter of Yuri I, prince of Galicia. Since his father was still a ruler of the family's Masovian lands, in 1323 Bolesław, renamed Jerzy, became Prince of Galicia. He also received the Duchy of Belz after the childless death of Andrew of Galicia. In 1331 he married daughter of Grand Duke of Lithuania Gediminas and sister of Aldona of Lithuania, wife of Casimir III of Poland. Name of Bolesław's wife is disputed. T. Narbutt wrote that her pagan name was Eufemia and her Christian name was Maria. Oswald Balzer supposed that her Christian name was Eufemia. Kazimierz Jasiński supposed that whole Narbutt's account was fabrication.\n\nIn a treaty of 1338 Bolesław Jerzy offered Casimir III of Poland succession to the throne of Galicia-Volhynia. Duke Boleslaw was supported by the many townspeople living there. In 1324 Boleslaw located the towns of Volodymyr-Volynskyi on Magdeburg law, and Sanok in 1339. He was poisoned in 1340 by orthodox boyars and died without an heir, before his father who continued rule Masovian principality.\n\nAfter Bolesław Jerzy's death the Kingdom of Galicia was gradually annexed by the kingdom of Poland between 1340 and 1366, during the reign of Casimir III of Poland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51613480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51613480", "title": "Bruno Ossébi", "text": "Bruno Ossébi\n\nBruno Jacquet Ossébi, also known as Bruno Jacquet or Ossébi (December 10, 1964 – February 2, 2009), was a Franco-Congolese journalist for the online news site \"Mwinda\". Ossébi was working to expose government corruption when a mysterious fire broke out in his home. He sustained fatal injuries, and died in a military hospital in Brazzaville, Republic of the Congo twelve days later.\n\nBruno Ossébi was born in France, and originally given the name Bruno Jacquet. He was born on December 10, 1964 to a French father and a Congolese mother. He moved to the Republic of Congo in the early 1990s to pursue a career in blogging and journalism. He began writing for the Congolese web site \"Mwinda\" about hot-button political issues. Ossébi was thought to be protected as a French citizen, and cousin of several barons; however, he received several threats throughout his career. Ossébi was not married, but lived with his girlfriend and her two children. They also died in the house fire that killed Ossébi.\n\nOssébi was an activist throughout his career. He wrote for \"Mwinda\", and also created a personal blog (bruno-ossbi.novoblog.com). He began writing for \"Mwinda\" when President Denis Sassou-Nguesso came to power in the early 1990s. Ossébi sought to condemn the plundering of oil, timber, and violations of human rights in the Republic of Congo. He was also active in the StAR program of the World Bank, and active with the United Nations program that recovers misappropriated African assets. Ossébi spent two years working with lawyers, activists, and citizens to develop a court complaint against President Sassou Nguesso, President of Gabon Omar Bongo, and President of Equatorial Guinea Teodoro Obiang, accusing them of \"misappropriation of public funds\".\n\nOn January 21, 2009, two fires broke out 6,000 km away from each other in two different Franco-Congolese journalist’s homes. Bruno Ossébi in Brazzaville, Republic of Congo, and Benjamin Toungamani in France. Both journalists, Ossébi included, were plaintiff’s in an “ill-gotten gains” complaint filed weeks before. Ossébi and Toungamani both heavily criticized Denis Sassou Nguesso’s authoritarianism, and his lavish lifestyle at the expense of the Congolese people. Ossébi was able to escape the home, but died in a military hospital twelve days later.\n\nThere was no serious investigation or autopsy after the fires, according to Reporters Without Borders. Bruno Ossébi’s official cause of death was “cardiac arrest”, and no mention of burns were notated, even though 30% of his body was covered.\n\nThree days before the fire broke out in Bruno Ossébi’s home, he published an article on \"Mwinda\" press. The article revealed that Société Nationale des Pétroles du Congo, a petroleum company led by President Denis Sassou-Nguesso's son, Denis-Christel Sassou Nguesso, was seeking a French bank loan of $100 million pledged to the production of oil. Ossébi accused them of organizing a “debt front” which contradicted a commitment made by the Congo to the International Monetary Fund. Two days before the incident, Ossébi contacted the Committee to recover stolen property from the World Bank. A few weeks earlier, he had indicated his intention to join a complaint against “ill-gotten gains”.\n\nFollowing Ossébi’s death, Reporters Without Borders have accused officials of minimizing the case, and failing to carry out an official investigation or autopsy. Reporters Without Borders have since launched their own investigation into the case. More than 80 people have been interviewed including relatives, friends, other journalists, and government officials, but no further action has been taken. Reporters Without Borders continues to ask the French government for aid in solving the case.\n\nKoïchiro Matsuura, director-general of UNESCO, said, \"I deplore the death of Bruno Ossébi. I trust that the authorities will spare no effort in seeking to elucidate this tragedy as soon as possible. It is important to remember that the work of journalists is essential not only if we are to uphold the basic human right of freedom of expression but for democracy and good governance, issues that concern societies everywhere.” \n\nJean-François Julliard, former secretary-general of Reporters Without Borders, said, \"Deploring the negligence of the investigation conducted in Brazzaville by the Congolese authorities, we asked the French government, six months after the death of Bruno Ossébi, to open an investigation in France.\" He adds, \"Today, it is still unclear whether the fire in the journalist's home was accidental or criminal. We still do not know why Bruno Ossébi died suddenly, twelve days later, with his state of health. We are astonished that France has remained passive on the mysterious death of one of its nationals, recognized, moreover, as a very critical voice in a country that does not shine by its respect for the Freedom of the press.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "49538597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49538597", "title": "Cat predation on wildlife", "text": "Cat predation on wildlife\n\nCats hunt small prey, and both feral and domesticated cats prey on wildlife. This is sometimes seen as a desirable phenomenon, such as in the case of barn cats and other cats kept for the purposes of pest control. As an invasive species and superpredator, they do considerable ecological damage. In Australia, hunting by cats helped to drive at least 20 native mammals to extinction, and continues to threaten at least 124 more. Their introduction has caused the extinction of at least 33 endemic species on islands throughout the world. Feral and domestic cats kill billions of birds in the United States every year, where songbird populations continue to decline.\n\nFor thousands of years, cats have been known for their ability to hunt mice and rats and keep their populations under control. This ability is understood as the reason cats became domesticated. The relationship was more of convenience (or mutualistic) than dependence: \"Cats killed mice and rats, and humans provided lots of mice and rats to kill since mice and rats lived in human settlements.\" A 2014 study examining 5,300 years of cat remains in an agricultural village of Quanhucun, China, provides early evidence of this dynamic, where cats protected grain stores by eating rodents. \nIf they are well-fed, farm cats are more dependable as effective ratters, as they are less likely to stray or hunt further afield. Cats are wary of adult rats, given their size, but are particularly adept at hunting young rats.\n\nIn 2002, feral cats introduced to a flower market in Los Angeles, California, were noted to have helped lower rat populations. In Chicago's 47th Ward, feral cats were introduced in 2012 to help the city deal with the rat problem there.\nEfforts to eradicate feral cats in Ventura, California, were noted in 2002 to have resulted in increasing numbers of rats, which were being monitored for health problems such as bubonic plague.\n\nA 2013 study by Scott R. Loss and others of the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service suggested that free-ranging domestic cats (mostly unowned) are the top human-caused threat to wildlife in the United States, killing an estimated 1.3 to 4 billion birds and 6.3 to 22.3 billion mammals annually. These figures were much higher than previous estimates for the U.S. Unspecified species of birds native to the U.S. and mammals including mice, shrews, voles, squirrels and rabbits were considered most likely to be preyed upon by cats.\n\nPerhaps the first U.S. study that pointed to predation by cats on wildlife as a concern was ornithologist Edward Howe Forbush's 1916 report for the Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture, \"The Domestic Cat: Bird Killer, Mouser and Destroyer of Wildlife: Means of Utilizing and Controlling It\".\n\nU.K. biologist and cat behaviour expert Roger Tabor states that \"studies from all around the world have found that cats catch relatively few birds compared to small mammals.\" The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds states that there is no scientific evidence that cat predation \"is having any impact on bird populations UK-wide.\" Moreover, city cats have smaller ranges. In his research, Tabor found \"the average annual catch of the average London cat to be two items instead of the fourteen of a village cat.\" Tabor comments about some of the challenges of stalking birds for cats: \"From the cat's point of view not only do birds not play fair by flying and having eyes that can see beyond the back of their heads, but they can positively cheat by using loud alarm calls and throw the cat's chances of catching any others.\"\n\nIsland settings pose particular challenges for wildlife. A 2001 study identified cats alone as responsible for the plight of some island bird species, such as the Townsend's shearwater, socorro dove, and the Marquesan ground dove. The same study identified the greatest cause of endangerment of birds as habitat loss and degradation, with at least 52% of endangered birds affected, while introduced species on islands, such as domestic cats, rats and mustelids, affected only 6% of endangered birds. Other studies caution that removing domestic cats from islands can have unintended consequences, as increasing rat populations can put native bird and mammal species at risk.\n\nCats in Australia have been found to have European origins. This is important to note because of their effect on native species. Feral cats in Australia have been linked to the decline and extinction of various native animals. They have been shown to cause a significant impact on ground nesting birds and small native mammals.\n\nFeral cats have also hampered any attempts to re-introduce threatened species back into areas where they have become extinct as the cats have hunted and killed the newly released animals. Numerous Australian environmentalists claim the feral cat has been an ecological disaster in Australia, inhabiting most ecosystems except dense rainforest, and being implicated in the extinction of several marsupial and placental mammal species.\n\nThe fauna of New Zealand has evolved in isolation for millions of years without the presence of mammals (apart from a few bat species). Consequently, birds dominated the niches occupied by mammals and many became flightless. The introduction of mammals after settlement by Māori from about the 12th century had a huge effect on the indigenous biodiversity. European explorers and settlers brought cats on their ships and the presence of feral cats were recorded from the latter decades of the 19th century.\nIt is estimated that feral cats have been responsible for the extinction of six endemic bird species and over 70 localised subspecies as well as depleting bird and lizard species.\n\nIn the U.K., The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds states that there is no scientific evidence that cat predation \"is having any impact on bird populations UK-wide. The article goes on to say, \"This may be surprising, but many millions of birds die naturally every year, mainly through starvation, disease, or other forms of predation. There is evidence that cats tend to take weak or sickly birds\".\n\n\"Those bird species that have undergone the most serious population declines in the UK (such as skylarks, tree sparrows and corn buntings) rarely encounter cats, so cats cannot be causing their declines. Research shows that these declines are usually caused by habitat change or loss, particularly on farmland.\" This evidence is despite the common practice in the U.K. of allowing owned cats access to the outdoors, which is recommended to prevent feline obesity (p. 138) and behavior problems and other health problems arising from confinement stress (p. 121).\n\nSongBird Survival considers that \"The prevailing line that \"there is no scientific evidence that predation by cats is having any impact on bird populations in UK\" is simply no longer tenable\", noting \"No study has ever examined the impact of cats on songbirds at the population level; Evidence shows that the recovering sparrowhawk population in the 1970-80s resulted in the decline of some songbird populations; Cats kill around 3 times as many songbirds as sparrowhawks; The mere presence of cats near birds' nests was found to decrease provision of food by a third while the resultant mobbing clamour from parent birds led in turn to increased nest predation by crows and magpies; [and that] It is therefore far more likely that cats have an even greater impact on songbird populations than sparrowhawks.\"\n\nSir David Attenborough in his Christmas Day edition of BBC Radio 4 programme Tweet Of The Day said \"\"Cats kill an extraordinarily high number of birds in British gardens\". Asked whether cat owners should buy bell collars for their pets at Christmas, he replied: \"That would be good for the robins, yes.\"\n\nMany islands host ecologically naive animal species. That is, animals that do not have predator responses for dealing with predators such as cats. Feral cats introduced to such islands have had a devastating impact on these islands' biodiversity.\n\nThey have been implicated in the extinction of several species and local extinctions, such as the hutias from the Caribbean, the Guadalupe storm petrel from the Pacific coast of Mexico, and Lyall's wren. In a statistical study, they were a significant cause for the extinction of 40% of the species studied. Moors and Atkinson wrote, in 1984, \"No other alien predator has had such a universally damaging effect.\"\n\nFeral cats, along with rabbits, some sea birds, and sheep, form the entire large animal population of the remote Kerguelen Islands in the southern Indian Ocean. Although exotic mammals form the bulk of their diet, cats' impact on seabirds is very important.\n\nBecause of the damage cats cause in islands and some ecosystems, many conservationists working in the field of island restoration have worked to remove feral cats. (Island restoration involves the removal of introduced species and reintroducing native species.) , 48 islands have had their feral cat populations eradicated, including New Zealand's network of offshore island bird reserves and Australia's Macquarie Island.\n\nLarger projects have also been undertaken, including their complete removal from Ascension Island. The cats, introduced in the 19th century, caused a collapse in populations of nesting seabirds. The project to remove them from the island began in 2002, and the island was cleared of cats by 2004. Since then, seven species of seabird that had not nested on the island for 100 years have returned.\n\nIn some cases, the removal of cats had unintended consequences. An example is Macquarie Island, where the removal of cats caused an explosion in the number of rabbits, rats, and mice that harm native seabirds even if the eradication was positioned within an integrated pest management framework. The removal of the rats and rabbits was scheduled for 2007 and it could take up to seven years and cost $24 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "3367685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3367685", "title": "Che Kung", "text": "Che Kung\n\nChe Kung (), also known as Che Da Yuan Shuai () was originally a military commander of Southern Song Dynasty (1127–1279), who, according to lore, had supreme power to suppress rebellion and was renowned for his loyalty to the Emperor. He was also famous for his power to suppress plagues and his skill in medicine. He is believed by some worshipers to have been involved in the attempt to keep the Song state alive by bringing Prince Ping and his brother to the South. He is now considered a god of protection.\n\nChe Kung was a native of Nanchang, in Jiangxi Province of China. As a military commander he saved the southern regions of China from disorder. Also, he appeared in the villagers dreams who suffered from a plague. Later on, the plague was over and the villagers thought that Che Kung saved them from diseases. Daoists regarded him as a god due to his contributions. Inside a temple of Che Kung, pinwheels can always be found next to his effigy. It is believed that the one who rotates the pinwheel can get good luck. The Birthday of Che Kung is celebrated on the second day of Chinese New Year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6425322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6425322", "title": "DNA clamp", "text": "DNA clamp\n\nA DNA clamp, also known as a sliding clamp, is a protein fold that serves as a processivity-promoting factor in DNA replication. As a critical component of the DNA polymerase III holoenzyme, the clamp protein binds DNA polymerase and prevents this enzyme from dissociating from the template DNA strand. The clamp-polymerase protein–protein interactions are stronger and more specific than the direct interactions between the polymerase and the template DNA strand; because one of the rate-limiting steps in the DNA synthesis reaction is the association of the polymerase with the DNA template, the presence of the sliding clamp dramatically increases the number of nucleotides that the polymerase can add to the growing strand per association event. The presence of the DNA clamp can increase the rate of DNA synthesis up to 1,000-fold compared with a nonprocessive polymerase.\n\nThe DNA clamp fold is an α+β protein that assembles into a multimeric structure that completely encircles the DNA double helix as the polymerase adds nucleotides to the growing strand. The DNA clamp assembles on the DNA at the replication fork and \"slides\" along the DNA with the advancing polymerase, aided by a layer of water molecules in the central pore of the clamp between the DNA and the protein surface. Because of the toroidal shape of the assembled multimer, the clamp cannot dissociate from the template strand without also dissociating into monomers.\n\nThe DNA clamp fold is found in bacteria, archaea, eukaryotes and some viruses. In bacteria, the sliding clamp is a homodimer composed of two identical beta subunits of DNA polymerase III and hence is referred to as the beta clamp. In archaea and eukaryotes, it is a trimer composed of three molecules of PCNA. The T4 bacteriophage also uses a sliding clamp, called gp45 that is a trimer similar in structure to PCNA but lacks sequence homology to either PCNA or the bacterial beta clamp.\n\nThe beta clamp is a specific DNA clamp and a subunit of the DNA polymerase III holoenzyme found in bacteria. Two beta subunits are assembled around the DNA by the gamma subunit and ATP hydrolysis; this assembly is called the pre-initiation complex. After assembly around the DNA, the beta subunits' affinity for the gamma subunit is replaced by an affinity for the alpha and epsilon subunits, which together create the complete holoenzyme. DNA polymerase III is the primary enzyme complex involved in prokaryotic DNA replication.\n\nThe gamma complex of DNA polymerase III, composed of γδδ'χψ subunits, catalyzes ATP to chaperone two beta subunits to bind to DNA. Once bound to DNA, the beta subunits can freely slide along double stranded DNA. The beta subunits in turn bind the αε polymerase complex. The α subunit possesses DNA polymerase activity and the ε subunit is a 3’-5’ exonuclease.\n\nThe beta chain of bacterial DNA polymerase III is composed of three topologically equivalent domains (N-terminal, central, and C-terminal). Two beta chain molecules are tightly associated to form a closed ring encircling duplex DNA.\n\nCertain NSAIDs (carprofen, bromfenac, and vedaprofen) exhibit some suppression of bacterial DNA replication by inhibiting bacterial DNA clamp.\n\nThe sliding clamp in eukaryotes is assembled from a specific subunit of DNA polymerase delta called the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). The N-terminal and C-terminal domains of PCNA are topologically identical. Three PCNA molecules are tightly associated to form a closed ring encircling duplex DNA.\n\nThe sequence of PCNA is well conserved between plants, animals and fungi, indicating a strong selective pressure for structure conservation, and suggesting that this type of DNA replication mechanism is conserved throughout eukaryotes. Homologues of PCNA have also been identified in the archaea (\"Euryarchaeota\" and \"Crenarchaeota\") and in Paramecium bursaria Chlorella virus 1 (PBCV-1) and in nuclear polyhedrosis viruses.\n\nThe viral gp45 sliding clamp subunit protein contains two domains. Each domain consists of two alpha helices and two beta sheets – the fold is duplicated and has internal pseudo two-fold symmetry. Three gp45 molecules are tightly associated to form a closed ring encircling duplex DNA. \n\nSliding clamps are loaded onto their associated DNA template strands by specialized proteins known as \"sliding clamp loaders\", which also disassemble the clamps after replication has completed. The binding sites for these initiator proteins overlap with the binding sites for the DNA polymerase, so the clamp cannot simultaneously associate with a clamp loader and with a polymerase. Thus the clamp will not be actively disassembled while the polymerase remains bound. DNA clamps also associate with other factors involved in DNA and genome homeostasis, such as nucleosome assembly factors, Okazaki fragment ligases, and DNA repair proteins. All of these proteins also share a binding site on the DNA clamp that overlaps with the clamp loader site, ensuring that the clamp will not be removed while any enzyme is still working on the DNA. The activity of the clamp loader requires ATP hydrolysis to \"close\" the clamp around the DNA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "894296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=894296", "title": "Dead Run (The Twilight Zone)", "text": "Dead Run (The Twilight Zone)\n\n\"Dead Run\" is the second segment of the nineteenth episode from the first season (1985–86) of the television series \"The Twilight Zone\".\n\nJohnny Davis is a truck driver and is unemployed due to his many accidents. Johnny asks Pete, a friend of his father, for help getting a job. Pete is reluctant and warns Johnny that the jobs he takes require unusual resilience and fortitude. Johnny insists that he understands and Pete agrees to take him on his next run. Johnny quickly discovers that the run involves delivering souls to Hell via semi-trailer truck. He also finds out that the souls of the newly dead have been causing disturbances in Hell and it is making the truckers nervous.\n\nDropping their cargo in Hell, Pete and Johnny witness anarchy. Souls run around loose and some of the dead plead with Johnny to rescue them. Other souls attack the drivers, but Gary Frick (another dead man) comes to Johnny's aid. Gary tells Johnny that the cause of the commotion is that people are being sent to Hell who don't deserve it.\n\nGary explains that a new bureaucracy has taken over the job of deciding who goes to Heaven or Hell. Pete and one of the guards in Hell find Johnny, who is summoned to a meeting with upper management. Johnny relates what he heard and saw, and the manager explains how the process works. Johnny thinks the standards used to determine who is sent to Hell are excessive and biased and people are being damned for minor offenses. The executive reasons that they're simply using \"time-honored Biblical standards\".\n\nJohnny decides to interview the dead that ride with him and then he can decide which of the dead should go to Hell and which he should release (in hopes that they can find a way to Heaven). When one of the souls asks why he is doing this, Johnny replies that he remembered a story from the Bible: between the Crucifixion and Resurrection, Jesus went down to Hell to give the souls there another chance. Johnny reasons that he is just using his own \"time-honored Biblical standard.\"\n\nThis episode is based on the short story \"Dead Run\" by Greg Bear, first published in \"Omni\" (April, 1985).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35708672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35708672", "title": "Developmental homeostasis", "text": "Developmental homeostasis\n\nDevelopmental homeostasis is a process in which animals develop more or less normally, despite defective genes and deficient environments. It is an organisms ability to overcome certain circumstances in order to develop normally. This can be either a physical or mental circumstance that interferes with either a physical or mental trait. Many species have a specific norm, where those who fit that norm prosper while those who don't are killed or find it difficult to thrive. It is important that the animal be able to interact with the other group members effectively. Animals must learn their species' norms early to live a normal, successful life for that species.\n\nDevelopmental homeostasis determines how a species adapts to live a normal life. Therefore, it has been the focus of many experiments. These experiments are geared and designed to test the threshold for certain species to overcome and prosper despite certain circumstances.\n\nDue to the fact that survival of the species is based on the ability to interact with their own in a normal manner, these experiments—which usually interfere with that—walk a fine line for animal rights and what is acceptable. The rhesus monkey experiments show how the young monkey needs the physical contact with other monkeys to learn the social behaviors and interact with each other effectively. This is one of the ways mental developmental homeostasis has been researched. One way physical developmental homeostasis was tested was in the facial symmetry experiment where people were asked to rate which of the faces they saw as better looking. This experiment resulted in the pictures with more symmetrical faces being called better looking. This is not just found in humans but other experiments such as the brush-legged wolf spider and the barn swallow birds. Favored traits give the bearer an advantage in attracting high quality mates.\n\nIn species that value developmental homeostasis, both physically and mentally, the ability of one to adapt to social norms seems to increase the likelihood of having a reproductive advantage being able to attract mates and leave offspring.\n\nDevelopmental homeostasis attributes to the way many animals develop. This contains the way they develop normally or abnormally despite faulty genes and an insufficient environment. This property of development reduces the variation around a mean value for a phenotype, and reflects the ability of developmental processes to suppress some outcomes in order to generate an adaptive phenotype more reliably.\n\nThe effects of developmental homeostasis were demonstrated in an experiment conducted four decades ago by Margaret and Harry Harlow. They wanted to test what the consequences of infant rhesus monkeys would be from being separated from their mothers and having little interaction with other monkeys. First, they were separated from their mothers for six to twelve hours after birth and placed with a human made mechanical substitute in which they called the \"surrogate mother.\" These surrogates were made of a wire cylinder structure and a terry cloth structure and were placed with the babies is a cage. The terry cloth structure was also placed with a nursing bottle. The monkeys preferred and clung to the cloth surrogate mother. In a short period of time the monkeys took on side effects of weight loss and not abnormal physical development. Once the monkeys reached an age where they could eat solid foods, they were separated from their cloth mothers for three days. When they were reunited with their mothers, they clung to them and did not wander off. Young rhesus monkeys in their natural habitat normally explore and venture off. Harlow concluded from this that the need for contact comfort was stronger than the need to explore. Being isolated from social interaction also caused negative outcomes later in their life. The surrogate-raised monkeys exhibited depression and aggressive behavior as they would clutch to themselves, rock constantly back and forth, and avoid interaction with others. Not only affecting their social behavior, it also impacted them interacting sexually. The monkeys underwent little if any sexual posturing or reproduction in their lifetime.\nTo test how much social experience is necessary or needed in normal development the Harlows performed another experiment in that they isolated young rhesus monkeys by limiting the interaction time with other monkeys. They gave them fifteen minutes a day with three other monkeys to interact. In the beginning, the monkeys would attach to each other and begin to play. Normal behavior of these monkeys in their natural habitat is that after the age of one month they play with other monkeys of their own species and by six months are constantly interacting in groups. Results showed that over time the monkeys developed relatively normal behavior and that limiting their social interaction as babies did not affect them interacting sexually and socially. They also did not exhibit any abnormal aggression or depression when socializing with other monkeys.\n\nIn 1960, Harry Harlow began studying partial and total isolation of infant monkeys by raising them in cages. Partial isolation involved raising monkeys in bare wire cages that allowed them to see, smell, and hear other monkeys, but did not give them the opportunity for physical contact. Total social isolation involved rearing monkeys in isolation chambers that took away any and all contact with other monkeys. The results showed that when the monkeys were placed in partial isolation they displayed various abnormal behaviors such as blank staring, circling in their cages numerous times, and self-mutilation. The cages were placed in several locations. A few of the monkeys remained being tested in solitary confinement for fifteen years.\n\nIn the total isolation experiments the baby monkeys were left alone for three, six, twelve, or twenty-four months. The experiments resulted in the monkeys that were severely psychologically disturbed and abnormal development. When first removed from isolation, they usually went into emotional shock by clutching to themselves and rocking multiple times. One of six monkeys isolated for three months refused to eat after release and died five days later. The longer the time in isolation the more detrimental it was for the monkeys to act socially when placed with other monkeys. Harlow pointed out that no monkey had actually died during isolation. Harlow tried to reintegrate the monkeys who had been isolated for six months by placing them with monkeys who had been reared normally. He stated that it produced “severe deficits in virtually every aspect of social behavior” and that it “achieved only limited recovery of simple social responses.” \n\nThe ethics of pulling a baby primate away from their mother at young ages isn't morally right. Removing baby primates from their mothers can cause high psychological trauma in these young primates that can inhibit proper growth and social skills. In addition to lasting effects, these animals may live in small, cramped, dirty environments, which can cause health issues within baby primates. Health problems can also arise sooner and with more impact on a young primate that has just been removed from the comfort of their mother because their immune system is not fully active as it would be with an older primate. The psychological effects of the physiological suffering of these young primates last a lifetime.\nOverall, questions arise about animal experimentation being morally right or wrong. Labs that abuse the ability to conduct animal experimentation are often shut down or lose federal funding, University of Pennsylvania's lab is a good example of this. Some statistics about animal experimentation: 20 million animals are experimented on and are killed annually, an estimated 8 million are experimented on painfully, and reports have shown that ten percent of those tested on do not receive pain killers to minimize the pain these animals are put through. Animal experimentation has become something that is debated about publicly. Those who do not believe in animal experimentation raise the questions about if it is wrong to cause pain to humans then isn't it wrong to cause pain to animals? \nSome advocates of animal experimentation that say that these experiments allow scientific discovery to advance—but some feel that those who support animal experimentation are selfish to inflict pain on other animals as a method to reduce or eliminate pain for humans. The question is not so much a comparison between the pain of humans versus the pain of animals as much as it is the amount of suffering for the animal subjects.\n\nDevelopmental homeostasis plays a role in the development of symmetrical and asymmetrical bodies. This effect in species shows that individuals in species who have symmetrical features are more likely to obtain a mate over one who has asymmetrical features.\n\nThe symmetry in the facial features of humans could be found as appealing to men and women. This could be due to the ability to find prospective mates in responding positively to either body or facial symmetry. This could be because attributes announce the individual's capacity to overcome challenges to normal development. The human preference for symmetry can be explained by humans looking at mate choice, mainly because symmetry is a reliable indicator in the genetic quality mates look for. The cognitive mechanisms and adaptive significance of facial attractiveness have been an interest of psychologists. Men and women find traits such as averageness, symmetry, and masculinity (in male) or femininity (in female) in faces attractive. It is noted that humans find symmetrical faces more attractive than asymmetrical faces. Disruptions to development caused by mutations or by an inability to secure critical material resources early in life could generate asymmetries in appearance. If body asymmetry reflects sub-optimal development of the brain or other important organs, a preference for symmetrical traits could enable the selective individual to acquire a partner with \"good genes\" to transfer to their offspring. Disruptions to development could be caused by stress, illness, or genetic factors.\n\nIn 1998 a study of facial symmetry and how beauty was experimented on by Gillian Rhodes called \"Facial symmetry and the perception of beauty\". In the experiment, images of human faces were digitally manipulated to show various amounts of symmetry. People were asked to rate the faces, and found that the faces with the most symmetry were the most attractive.\n\nDevelopmental homeostasis is present not only in humans, but in animals as well. The choosing of symmetrical features over asymmetrical features have been observed in birds, lizards, Araneae,and even insects. For example, barn swallow females have been reported to prefer males whose long outer feathers are the same length on each side. Symmetrical males gain an reproductive advantage because of the female mate choice.\n\nAnother example is the behavior exhibited in the damselfly \"Lestes viridis\", where males with more symmetrical hindwings were mated with more than their unmated rivals with asymmetrical hindwings. These examples show that individuals with high quality features are able to reproduce their large and symmetrical traits, while individuals who have lower quality features suffer costs to produce their asymmetrical traits.\n\nOne species that chooses their mates based on body symmetry is the brush-legged wolf spider. Males who have larger tufts on one leg than the other (asymmetrical) tend to be smaller, and have poorer fitness than the males who have symmetrical tufts. During courtship, the males wave their hair foreleg tufts, and symmetrical males be chosen over asymmetrical males by the females.\n"}
{"id": "106450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106450", "title": "Eddie Hazel", "text": "Eddie Hazel\n\nEdward Earl Hazel (April 10, 1950 – December 23, 1992) was an American guitarist and singer in early funk music in the United States who played lead guitar with Parliament-Funkadelic. Hazel was a posthumous inductee of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, inducted in 1997 with fifteen other members of Parliament-Funkadelic.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York in 1950, Hazel grew up in Plainfield, New Jersey because his mother, Grace Cook, wanted her son to grow up in an environment without the pressures of drugs and crime that she felt pervaded New York City. Hazel occupied himself from a young age by playing a guitar, given to him as a Christmas present by his older brother. Hazel also sang in church. At age 12, Hazel met Billy \"Bass\" Nelson, and the pair quickly became close friends and began performing, soon adding drummer Harvey McGee to the mix.\n\nIn 1967, the Parliaments, a Plainfield-based doo wop band headed by George Clinton, had a hit record with \"(I Wanna) Testify.\" Clinton recruited a backing band for a tour, hiring Nelson as bassist, who in turn recommended Hazel as guitarist. Hazel was in Newark, New Jersey, working with George Blackwell and could not be reached. After Nelson returned from the tour, he tried to recruit Hazel. His mother at first vetoed the idea, since Hazel was only seventeen, but Clinton and Nelson worked together to change her mind.\n\nIn late 1967, the Parliaments went on tour with both Nelson and Hazel. In Philadelphia Hazel met and befriended Tiki Fulwood, who quickly replaced the Parliaments' drummer. Nelson, Hazel and Fulwood became the backbone of Funkadelic, which was originally the backup band for the Parliaments, only to later become an independent touring group when legal difficulties forced Clinton to temporarily abandon the name \"Parliaments\".\n\nThe switch to Funkadelic was complete with the addition of Tawl Ross and Bernie Worrell (rhythm guitar and keyboards, respectively). \"Funkadelic\" (1970), \"Free Your Mind... And Your Ass Will Follow\" (1970) and \"Maggot Brain\" (1971) were the first three albums, released within two years. All three albums prominently featured Hazel's guitar work.\n\nThe third album's title song, \"Maggot Brain\", consists of a ten-minute guitar solo by Hazel. Clinton reportedly told Hazel during the recording session to imagine he had been told his mother was dead, but then learned that it was not true. Music critic Greg Tate described it as Funkadelic's \"A Love Supreme\". In 2008, Rolling Stone cited this as number 60 on its list of 100 greatest \"guitar songs\" of all time.\n\nNelson and Hazel officially quit Funkadelic in late 1971 over financial disputes with Clinton, though Hazel contributed to the group sporadically over the next several years. The albums \"America Eats Its Young\" (1972) and \"Cosmic Slop\" (1973) featured only marginal input from Hazel. Instead, Hazel began working with the Temptations (along with Nelson), appearing on \"1990\" (1973) and \"A Song for You\" (1975).\n\nFor the 1974 Funkadelic album \"Standing on the Verge of Getting It On\", Hazel co-wrote all of the album's songs. On six of those songs the songwriting credit was in the name of Grace Cook, Hazel's mother. Hazel also had a significant presence as arranger and lead guitarist on the same year's Parliament album, \"Up For The Down Stroke\". In 1974, Hazel was indicted for assaulting an airline stewardess and an air marshal, along with a drug possession charge. While Hazel was in jail, Clinton recruited Michael Hampton as the new lead guitarist for Parliament-Funkadelic.\n\nIn the next several years, Hazel appeared occasionally on Parliament-Funkadelic albums, although his guitar work was rarely featured. One song that featured Hazel's lead guitar is \"Comin' Round the Mountain\" on \"Hardcore Jollies\" (1976). In 1977, Hazel recorded a \"solo\" album, \"Game, Dames and Guitar Thangs\", with support from other members of Parliament-Funkadelic, including vocals from the Brides of Funkenstein. He was completely absent from \"One Nation Under a Groove\" (1978), Funkadelic's most commercially successful album. Hazel made another prominent appearance in \"Man's Best Friend\" on the George Clinton album \"Computer Games\" (1982), as well as the track \"Pumping It Up\" from the P-Funk All Stars album \"Urban Dancefloor Guerillas\".\n\nOn December 23, 1992, Hazel died from internal bleeding and liver failure. \"Maggot Brain\" was played at his funeral.\n\nThree collections of unreleased recordings have been released posthumously: The 1994 four-song EP \"Jams From the Heart\" (which Rhino Records later added as bonus material to its rerelease of \"Game, Dames and Guitar Thangs\"), 1994's \"Rest in P\" and 2006's \"Eddie Hazel At Home\".\n\nOther recordings by Hazel have appeared on albums by other musicians. Several albums produced by Bill Laswell, including \"Funkcronomicon\" (released under the name Axiom Funk, 1995) have featured Hazel's guitar. Bootsy Collins has also incorporated recordings of Hazel in some of his recent releases, for example, \"Good Night Eddie\" on \"Blasters of the Universe\". The band Ween recorded a tribute to him called \"A Tear for Eddie\" on their album \"Chocolate And Cheese\". There is an image of Hazel on the back of Primal Scream's album \"Give Out But Don't Give Up\". John Frusciante recorded a tribute to Hazel's \"Maggot Brain\" on his 2009 album \"The Empyrean\" in the nine-minute-long \"Before the Beginning\".\n\nHazel has been featured on a number of lists of greatest guitarists of all time. He was 43 on the list of Rolling Stone magazine's 100 Greatest Guitarists Of All Time and was ranked at 88 in a similar list by Uncut Magazine.\n\nSolo recordings\n\nSee also Parliament discography and Funkadelic discography\n\n"}
{"id": "57414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57414", "title": "Evolutionary developmental biology", "text": "Evolutionary developmental biology\n\nEvolutionary developmental biology (informally, evo-devo) is a field of biological research that compares the developmental processes of different organisms to infer the ancestral relationships between them and how developmental processes evolved.\n\nThe field grew from 19th-century beginnings, where embryology faced a mystery: zoologists did not know how embryonic development was controlled at the molecular level. Charles Darwin noted that having similar embryos implied common ancestry, but little progress was made until the 1970s. Then, recombinant DNA technology at last brought embryology together with molecular genetics. A key early discovery was of homeotic genes that regulate development in a wide range of eukaryotes.\n\nThe field is characterised by some key concepts, which took evolutionary biologists by surprise. One is deep homology, the finding that dissimilar organs such as the eyes of insects, vertebrates and cephalopod molluscs, long thought to have evolved separately, are controlled by similar genes such as \"pax-6\", from the evo-devo gene toolkit. These genes are ancient, being highly conserved among phyla; they generate the patterns in time and space which shape the embryo, and ultimately form the body plan of the organism. Another is that species do not differ much in their structural genes, such as those coding for enzymes; what does differ is the way that gene expression is regulated by the toolkit genes. These genes are reused, unchanged, many times in different parts of the embryo and at different stages of development, forming a complex cascade of control, switching other regulatory genes as well as structural genes on and off in a precise pattern. This multiple pleiotropic reuse explains why these genes are highly conserved, as any change would have many adverse consequences which natural selection would oppose.\n\nNew morphological features and ultimately new species are produced by variations in the toolkit, either when genes are expressed in a new pattern, or when toolkit genes acquire additional functions. Another possibility is the Neo-Lamarckian theory that epigenetic changes are later consolidated at gene level, something that may have been important early in the history of multicellular life.\n\nA recapitulation theory of evolutionary development was proposed by Étienne Serres in 1824–26, echoing the 1808 ideas of Johann Friedrich Meckel. They argued that the embryos of 'higher' animals went through or recapitulated a series of stages, each of which resembled an animal lower down the great chain of being. For example, the brain of a human embryo looked first like that of a fish, then in turn like that of a reptile, bird, and mammal before becoming clearly human. The embryologist Karl Ernst von Baer opposed this, arguing in 1828 that there was no linear sequence as in the great chain of being, based on a single body plan, but a process of epigenesis in which structures differentiate. Von Baer instead recognised four distinct animal body plans: radiate, like starfish; molluscan, like clams; articulate, like lobsters; and vertebrate, like fish. Zoologists then largely abandoned recapitulation, though Ernst Haeckel revived it in 1866.\n\nFrom the early 19th century through most of the 20th century, embryology faced a mystery. Animals were seen to develop into adults of widely differing body plan, often through similar stages, from the egg, but zoologists knew almost nothing about how embryonic development was controlled at the molecular level, and therefore equally little about how developmental processes had evolved. Charles Darwin argued that a shared embryonic structure implied a common ancestor. As an example of this, Darwin cited in his 1859 book \"On the Origin of Species\" the shrimp-like larva of the barnacle, whose sessile adults looked nothing like other arthropods; Linnaeus and Cuvier had classified them as molluscs. Darwin also noted Alexander Kowalevsky's finding that the tunicate, too, was not a mollusc, but in its larval stage had a notochord and pharyngeal slits which developed from the same germ layers as the equivalent structures in vertebrates, and should therefore be grouped with them as chordates. 19th century zoology thus converted embryology into an evolutionary science, connecting phylogeny with homologies between the germ layers of embryos. Zoologists including Fritz Müller proposed the use of embryology to discover phylogenetic relationships between taxa. Müller demonstrated that crustaceans shared the Nauplius larva, identifying several parasitic species that had not been recognised as crustaceans. Müller also recognised that natural selection must act on larvae, just as it does on adults, giving the lie to recapitulation, which would require larval forms to be shielded from natural selection. Two of Haeckel's other ideas about the evolution of development have fared better than recapitulation: he argued in the 1870s that changes in the timing (heterochrony) and changes in the positioning within the body (heterotopy) of aspects of embryonic development would drive evolution by changing the shape of a descendant's body compared to an ancestor's. It took a century before these ideas were shown to be correct. In 1917, D'Arcy Thompson wrote a book on the shapes of animals, showing with simple mathematics how small changes to parameters, such as the angles of a gastropod's spiral shell, can radically alter an animal's form, though he preferred mechanical to evolutionary explanation.\nBut for the next century, without molecular evidence, progress stalled.\n\nIn the so-called modern synthesis of the early 20th century, Ronald Fisher brought together Darwin's theory of evolution, with its insistence on natural selection, heredity, and variation, and Gregor Mendel's laws of genetics into a coherent structure for evolutionary biology. Biologists assumed that an organism was a straightforward reflection of its component genes: the genes coded for proteins, which built the organism's body. Biochemical pathways (and, they supposed, new species) evolved through mutations in these genes. It was a simple, clear and nearly comprehensive picture: but it did not explain embryology.\n\nThe evolutionary embryologist Gavin de Beer anticipated evolutionary developmental biology in his 1930 book \"Embryos and Ancestors\", by showing that evolution could occur by heterochrony, such as in the retention of juvenile features in the adult. This, de Beer argued, could cause apparently sudden changes in the fossil record, since embryos fossilise poorly. As the gaps in the fossil record had been used as an argument against Darwin's gradualist evolution, de Beer's explanation supported the Darwinian position. However, despite de Beer, the modern synthesis largely ignored embryonic development to explain the form of organisms, since population genetics appeared to be an adequate explanation of how forms evolved.\n\nIn 1961, Jacques Monod, Jean-Pierre Changeux and François Jacob discovered the lac operon in the bacterium \"Escherichia coli\". It was a cluster of genes, arranged in a feedback control loop so that its products would only be made when \"switched on\" by an environmental stimulus. One of these products was an enzyme that splits a sugar, lactose; and lactose itself was the stimulus that switched the genes on. This was a revelation, as it showed for the first time that genes, even in an organism as small as a bacterium, were subject to fine-grained control. The implication was that many other genes were also elaborately regulated.\n\nIn 1977, a revolution in thinking about evolution and developmental biology began, with the arrival of recombinant DNA technology in genetics, and the papers \"Ontogeny and Phylogeny\" by Stephen J. Gould and \"Evolution by Tinkering\" by François Jacob. Gould laid to rest Haeckel's interpretation of evolutionary embryology, while Jacob set out an alternative theory. \nThis led to a second synthesis, at last including embryology as well as molecular genetics, phylogeny, and evolutionary biology to form evo-devo. In 1978, Edward B. Lewis discovered homeotic genes that regulate embryonic development in \"Drosophila\" fruit flies, which like all insects are arthropods, one of the major phyla of invertebrate animals. \nBill McGinnis quickly discovered homeotic gene sequences, homeoboxes, in animals in other phyla, in vertebrates such as frogs, birds, and mammals; they were later also found in fungi such as yeasts, and in plants. There were evidently strong similarities in the genes that controlled development across all the eukaryotes.\nIn 1980, Christiane Nüsslein-Volhard and Eric Wieschaus described gap genes which help to create the segmentation pattern in fruit fly embryos; they and Lewis won a Nobel Prize for their work in 1995.\n\nLater, more specific similarities were discovered: for example, the Distal-less gene was found in 1989 to be involved in the development of appendages or limbs in fruit flies, the fins of fish, the wings of chickens, the parapodia of marine annelid worms, the ampullae and siphons of tunicates, and the tube feet of sea urchins. It was evident that the gene must be ancient, dating back to the last common ancestor of bilateral animals (before the Ediacaran Period, which began some 635 million years ago). Evo-devo had started to uncover the ways that all animal bodies were built during development.\n\nRoughly spherical eggs of different animals give rise to extremely different bodies, from jellyfish to lobsters, butterflies to elephants. Many of these organisms share the same structural genes for bodybuilding proteins like collagen and enzymes, but biologists had expected that each group of animals would have its own rules of development. The surprise of evo-devo is that the shaping of bodies is controlled by a rather small percentage of genes, and that these regulatory genes are ancient, shared by all animals. The giraffe does not have a gene for a long neck, any more than the elephant has a gene for a big body. Their bodies are patterned by a system of switching which causes development of different features to begin earlier or later, to occur in this or that part of the embryo, and to continue for more or less time.\n\nThe puzzle of how embryonic development was controlled began to be solved using the fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\" as a model organism. The step-by-step control of its embryogenesis was visualized by attaching fluorescent dyes of different colours to specific types of protein made by genes expressed in the embryo. A dye such as green fluorescent protein, originally from a jellyfish, was typically attached to an antibody specific to a fruit fly protein, forming a precise indicator of where and when that protein appeared in the living embryo.\n\nUsing such a technique, in 1994 Walter Gehring found that the \"pax-6\" gene, vital for forming the eyes of fruit flies, exactly matches an eye-forming gene in mice and humans. The same gene was quickly found in many other groups of animals, such as squid, a cephalopod mollusc. Biologists including Ernst Mayr had believed that eyes had arisen in the animal kingdom at least 40 times, as the anatomy of different types of eye varies widely. For example, the fruit fly's compound eye is made of hundreds of small lensed structures (ommatidia); the human eye has a blind spot where the optic nerve enters the eye, and the nerve fibres run over the surface of the retina, so light has to pass through a layer of nerve fibres before reaching the detector cells in the retina, so the structure is effectively \"upside-down\"; in contrast, the cephalopod eye has the retina, then a layer of nerve fibres, then the wall of the eye \"the right way around\". The evidence of \"pax-6\", however, was that the same genes controlled the development of the eyes of all these animals, suggesting that they all evolved from a common ancestor. Ancient genes had been conserved through millions of years of evolution to create dissimilar structures for similar functions, demonstrating deep homology between structures once thought to be purely analogous. This has caused a radical revision of the meaning of homology in evolutionary biology.\n\nA small fraction of the genes in an organism's genome control the organism's development. These genes are called the developmental-genetic toolkit. They are highly conserved among phyla, meaning that they are ancient and very similar in widely separated groups of animals. Differences in deployment of toolkit genes affect the body plan and the number, identity, and pattern of body parts. Most toolkit genes are parts of signalling pathways: they encode transcription factors, cell adhesion proteins, cell surface receptor proteins and signalling ligands that bind to them, and secreted morphogens that diffuse through the embryo. All of these help to define the fate of undifferentiated cells in the embryo. Together, they generate the patterns in time and space which shape the embryo, and ultimately form the body plan of the organism. Among the most important toolkit genes are the \"Hox\" genes. These transcription factors contain the homeobox protein-binding DNA motif, also found in other toolkit genes, and create the basic pattern of the body along its front-to-back axis.\nHox genes determine where repeating parts, such as the many vertebrae of snakes, will grow in a developing embryo or larva. \"Pax-6\", already mentioned, is a classic toolkit gene. Homeobox genes are also found in plants, implying they are common to all eukaryotes.\n\nThe protein products of the regulatory toolkit are reused not by duplication and modification, but by a complex mosaic of pleiotropy, being applied unchanged in many independent developmental processes, giving pattern to many dissimilar body structures. The loci of these pleiotropic toolkit genes have large, complicated and modular cis-regulatory elements. For example, while a non-pleiotropic rhodopsin gene in the fruit fly has a cis-regulatory element just a few hundred base pairs long, the pleiotropic eyeless cis-regulatory region contains 6 cis-regulatory elements in over 7000 base pairs. The regulatory networks involved are often very large. Each regulatory protein controls \"scores to hundreds\" of cis-regulatory elements. For instance, 67 fruit fly transcription factors controlled on average 124 target genes each. All this complexity enables genes involved in the development of the embryo to be switched on and off at exactly the right times and in exactly the right places. Some of these genes are structural, directly forming enzymes, tissues and organs of the embryo. But many others are themselves regulatory genes, so what is switched on is often a precisely-timed cascade of switching, involving turning on one developmental process after another in the developing embryo.\n\nSuch a cascading regulatory network has been studied in detail in the development of the fruit fly embryo. The young embryo is oval in shape, like a rugby ball. A small number of genes produce messenger RNAs that set up concentration gradients along the long axis of the embryo. In the early embryo, the \"bicoid\" and \"hunchback\" genes are at high concentration near the anterior end, and give pattern to the future head and thorax; the \"caudal\" and \"nanos\" genes are at high concentration near the posterior end, and give pattern to the hindmost abdominal segments. The effects of these genes interact; for instance, the Bicoid protein blocks the translation of \"caudal\"'s messenger RNA, so the Caudal protein concentration becomes low at the anterior end. Caudal later switches on genes which create the fly's hindmost segments, but only at the posterior end where it is most concentrated.\n\nThe Bicoid, Hunchback and Caudal proteins in turn regulate the transcription of gap genes such as \"giant\", \"knirps\", \"Krüppel\", and \"tailless\" in a striped pattern, creating the first level of structures that will become segments. The proteins from these in turn control the pair-rule genes, which in the next stage set up 7 bands across the embryo's long axis. Finally, the segment polarity genes such as \"engrailed\" split each of the 7 bands into two, creating 14 future segments.\n\nThis process explains the accurate conservation of toolkit gene sequences, which has resulted in deep homology and functional equivalence of toolkit proteins in dissimilar animals (seen, for example, when a mouse protein controls fruit fly development). The interactions of transcription factors and cis-regulatory elements, or of signalling proteins and receptors, become locked in through multiple usages, making almost any mutation deleterious and hence eliminated by natural selection.\n\nAmong the more surprising and, perhaps, counterintuitive (from a neo-Darwinian viewpoint) results of recent research in evolutionary developmental biology is that the diversity of body plans and morphology in organisms across many phyla are not necessarily reflected in diversity at the level of the sequences of genes, including those of the developmental genetic toolkit and other genes involved in development. Indeed, as John Gerhart and Marc Kirschner have noted, there is an apparent paradox: \"where we most expect to find variation, we find conservation, a lack of change\". So, if the observed morphological novelty between different clades does not come from changes in gene sequences (such as by mutation), where does it come from? Novelty may arise by mutation-driven changes in gene regulation.\n\nVariations in the toolkit may have produced a large part of the morphological evolution of animals. The toolkit can drive evolution in two ways. A toolkit gene can be expressed in a different pattern, as when the beak of Darwin's large ground-finch was enlarged by the \"BMP\" gene, or when snakes lost their legs as \"distal-less\" became under-expressed or not expressed at all in the places where other reptiles continued to form their limbs. Or, a toolkit gene can acquire a new function, as seen in the many functions of that same gene, \"distal-less\", which controls such diverse structures as the mandible in vertebrates, legs and antennae in the fruit fly, and eyespot pattern in butterfly wings. Given that small changes in toolbox genes can cause significant changes in body structures, they have often enabled the same function convergently or in parallel. \"distal-less\" generates wing patterns in the butterflies \"Heliconius erato\" and \"Heliconius melpomene\", which are Müllerian mimics. In so-called facilitated variation, their wing patterns arose in different evolutionary events, but are controlled by the same genes. Developmental changes can contribute directly to speciation.\n\nEvolutionary innovation may sometimes begin in Lamarckian style with epigenetic alterations of gene regulation or phenotype generation, subsequently consolidated by changes at the gene level. Epigenetic changes include modification of DNA by reversible methylation, as well as nonprogrammed remoulding of the organism by physical and other environmental effects due to the inherent plasticity of developmental mechanisms. The biologists Stuart A. Newman and Gerd B. Müller have suggested that organisms early in the history of multicellular life were more susceptible to this second category of epigenetic determination than are modern organisms, providing a basis for early macroevolutionary changes.\n\nDevelopment in specific lineages can be biased either positively, towards a given trajectory or phenotype, or negatively, away from producing certain types of change; either may be absolute (the change is always or never produced) or relative. Evidence for any such direction in evolution is however hard to acquire. For example, in the gastropods, the snail-type shell is always built as a tube that grows both in length and in diameter; selection has created a wide variety of shell shapes such as flat spirals, cowries and tall turret spirals within these constraints. Among the centipedes, the Lithobiomorpha always have 15 trunk segments as adults, probably the result of a developmental bias towards an odd number of trunk segments. Another centipede order, the Geophilomorpha, the number of segments varies in different species between 27 and 191, but the number is always odd, making this an absolute constraint; almost all the odd numbers in that range are occupied by one or another species.\n\nEcological evolutionary developmental biology (eco-evo-devo) integrates research from developmental biology and ecology to examine their relationship with evolutionary theory. Researchers study concepts and mechanisms such as developmental plasticity, epigenetic inheritance, genetic assimilation, niche construction and symbiosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46840954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46840954", "title": "FMRFamide in Biomphalaria glabrata", "text": "FMRFamide in Biomphalaria glabrata\n\nFMRFamide, a neuropeptide involved in cardiac activity regulation, is found in \"Biomphalaria glabrata\", a species of a freshwater snail best known for its role as the intermediate host for the human-infecting trematode parasite \"Schistosoma mansoni\".\n\nThis freshwater snail species is used as a model organism, in other words, a non-human species which is extensively studied to understand a biological phenomenon, with the expectation that discoveries made in the model will provide insight into the workings of other organisms. Model organisms are in vivo models and are widely used to research human disease when human experimentation would be unfeasible or unethical.\n\nThis snail has been studied in relation to human pathology and the epidemiology of schistosomiasis. \"S. masoni\" is known to change its host’s (\"B. glabrata\"'s) behavior via the upregulation/downregulation of neuropeptides such as schistosomin and NPY, and some studies have reported that FMRFamide is aminergic, and may be implicated in the secretion of molecules to respond to infection with parasites.\n\nThe ganglionic central nervous system (CNS) of \"B. glabrata\" consists of paired cerebral, pedal, pleural, parietal, and buccal ganglia, and one unpaired visceral ganglion. FMRFamide is concentrated in the concentrated in the cerebral and visceral ganglia, although evidence from current research suggests that FMRFamide moves downward of the head-foot region of the snail as embryonic development proceeds.\n\nThe exact role of FMRFamide during early development of the embryonic central nervous system is not well studied. Detection of this neuropeptide is important because its expression lays down the foundation of the CNS in the early stages of development in invertebrates. In recent years, neuromodulatory actions of FMRFamide in invertebrates have become more apparent. This is in part due to the extensive studies done on the Planorbidae and Lymnaeidae families of pond snails.\n\nFMRFamide expression in \"B. glabrata\" can be detected as early 72 hours, post-cleavage. Studies have shown its expression pattern in the posterior of the ganglionic nervous system, as the first FMRFamide immunoreactive cell appears at 25-28% of development and is located at the extreme posterior of the embryo. The cell sends a single process on each side and each process follows the body curvature.\n\nAs these processes elongate, two lateral FMRFamide-expressing cells are apparent on either side of the body wall. Some studies have suggested that FMRFamide these structures may innervate muscles that originate in trochopore larvae and expand during development. This neuromodulator helps to regulate cardiac activity. Several FMRFamid related peptides are known, regulating various cellular functions and possessing pharmacological actions, such as anti-opiate effects. FMRFamide may also play a role in osmoregulation and developmental patterning. This neuropeoptide has multiple functions and controls many processes that allow the embryo to mature into an adult snail.\n\nFMRFamide patterning over the course of embryonic life has been recorded through immunofluorescence. Embryos at 0 to 144 hours (6 days) post cleavage were extracted from the egg mass and fixed in 4% PFA for 2 hrs at room temperature. Embryos older than 4 days were pre-treated with 0.5% ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) solution in PBS for 5 minutes to improve primary antibody penetration, and then fixed in 4% PFA for 2 hours at room temperature. Embryos were then washed overnight in 4% Triton X-100 in PBS and incubated in blocking solution, 1% normal goal serum in PBS, overnight at 4 °C.\n\nAfter blocking overnight, embryos were treated with a primary antibody solution at 1:2000 (in NGS/PBS). Secondary antibody tagged with fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG (polyclonal) was incubated at 1:20, overnight at 4 °C. Embryos were then mounted on a slide and viewed with fluorescent microscopy.\n\n"}
{"id": "8950688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8950688", "title": "Fast Analog Computing with Emergent Transient States", "text": "Fast Analog Computing with Emergent Transient States\n\nFast Analog Computing with Emergent Transient States or FACETS is a European project to research the properties of the human brain. Established and funded by the European Union in September 2005, the five-year project involves approximately 80 scientists from Austria, France, Germany, Hungary, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. \n\nThe main project goal is to address questions about how the brain computes. Another objective is to create microchip hardware equaling approximately 200,000 neurons with 50 million synapses on a single silicon wafer. Current prototypes are running 100,000 times faster than their biological counterparts, which would make them the fastest analog computing devices ever built for neuronal computations.\n\nThe institutions involved are the University of Heidelberg, the French National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS) of Gif sur Yvette, the CNRS of Marseille, the Institut national de recherche en informatique et en automatique, the University of Freiburg, the University of Graz, the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, the Swedish Royal Institute of Technology, the University of London, the University of Plymouth, the University of Bordeaux, the University of Debrecen, the University of Dresden and the Institute for Theoretical Computer Science at Technische Universitat Graz.\n\n"}
{"id": "10446876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10446876", "title": "Fate mapping", "text": "Fate mapping\n\nIn developmental biology, fate mapping is a method of understanding the embryonic origin of various tissues in the adult organism by establishing the correspondence between individual cells (or groups of cells) at one stage of development, and their progeny at later stages of development. When carried out at single-cell resolution, this process is termed cell lineage tracing.\n\nThe first attempts at fate mapping were made by inferences based on the examination of embryos that had been fixed, sectioned, and stained at different developmental timepoints. The disadvantage of this technique was that observation of single points in developmental time provide only snapshots of what cell movements are actually occurring and what fates are being assigned. Early embryologists thus had to infer which cells became what tissues at later stages.\n\nEarly embryologists used \"vital dyes\" (which would stain but not harm the cells) to follow movements of individual cells or groups of cells over time in \"Xenopus\" frog embryos. The tissue(s) to which the cells contribute would thus be labeled and visible in the adult organism. The first person to develop and use this technique to study cell fate was embryologist Walter Vogt in 1929. Vogt used small chips of agar impregnated with a vital dye, (such as Nile Blue or Nile Red) which he placed on a particular cell or population of cells in \"Xenopus\" embryos until the dye absorbed into the yolk platelets within the desired cell(s). Once the cells were effectively labeled, the agar chip could be removed and the embryo was allowed to develop normally. With this method, Vogt was able to discern movements of particular cell populations and the ultimate organ or tissue into which they integrated. Although innovative for the time, this technique is limiting in that the size of a chip of agar may not accommodate single-cell resolution studies at later stages of development, since successive cell divisions will yield smaller cells (until the embryo develops into a larval form that can eat, and thereby grow larger). Additionally, the cell or cell population of interest must be superficial, since the agar chip with the dye must be placed on the surface of the embryo.\n\nThe information Vogt gathered from his tracing experiments of distinct cells and populations of cells in \"Xenopus\" was then pooled to construct a fate map. The map was a representation of an early-stage embryo (such as a blastula) that has particular regions highlighted which are known to give rise to specific tissues in the adult organism. For instance, in Figure 1, Nile Blue staining of a 32-cell blastula at the dorsal side of the animal pole yields a blue-stained brain and (depending on the size of the agar chip) may also stain the anterior portion of the notochord.\n\nIn 1978, David Weisblat and colleagues in Gunther Stent's lab at Berkeley improved the technique of single-cell resolution fate mapping by injection of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) enzyme, and later fluorescent peptides (1980), into individual cells in \"Helobdella triserialis\" (leech) embryos during early development. All progeny of the injected cells could later be discerned by staining for HRP using benzidine substrate or visualized by fluorescence microscopy. This technique allowed the experimenter greater control and selectivity over what cell was labeled and traced. However, the opaque character of the HRP stain prevented use of vital dye nuclear counter-stains such as Hoechst 33258 (blue) to observe the mitotic state of the injected cell's progeny. Also, embryos had to be fixed in order to stain for the HRP, thus allowing only a single timepoint view of each individual leech embryo injected. The use of fluorescent peptides such as Rhodamine-D-protein (red, RDP) and Fluorescein-D-protein (yellow/green, FDP) conjugated to large carrier molecules to prevent diffusion through cell gap junctions, alleviated several of the shortcomings of HRP injection. Leech embryos injected with the fluorescent tracers could be visualized, and images collected of the same specimen at multiple timepoints, without fixation. The fluorescent tracers could also be combined with nuclear Hoechst staining to visualize the mitotic status of the progeny of injected cells. Seth Blair, also in Stent's lab, introduced a novel ablation technique that could be used in tandem with lineage tracing to pursue the questions relating to developmental potential changes in cell fate in experimentally perturbed embryos that were first raised by Roux and Driesch (1980). For this purpose, specific cells were ablated by microinjection with Pronase (an enzyme that digests proteins) to ablate the cell; later modifications of this technique employed DNase or the ricin A chain. The single-cell injection technique is now also in use by researchers studying other model organisms such as \"Xenopus\" (frogs), \"Danio rerio\" (zebrafish), and \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" (worms).\n\nGenetic cell lineage tracing became an extremely powerful approach when Nat Sternberg and Daniel Hamilton identified a topoisomerase in P1 bacteriophage called Cre recombinase, which has site-specific (loxP site) recombination activity (1981). Subsequent studies have used the Cre-lox system in transgenic mice and zebrafish to create tissue specific conditional knockouts. In order to conditionally ablate a tissue or cell population of interest, one can create a transgenic mouse using a construct containing the promoter of a gene that is specific to the target cell population, so that the Cre recombinase is only expressed in that tissue type. A second transgenic line must be created, in which loxP recognition sites flank a portion of a particular critical \"housekeeping\" gene such as DNA polymerase-β. Each transgene is completely harmless by itself; however, when the two strains are crossed, the Cre expressed in the target cell population will cause the excision of DNA pol-β in those cells, which will die. Use of the Cre system instead of injected Pronase ensures that when the targeted cell(s) dies, its intracellular contents will not harm neighboring cells since the Cre is innocuous by itself and outside the cell, whereas Pronase can damage other cells and the extracellular matrix and thus may have nonspecific effects on development. This approach allows tissue-specific targeted ablation studies, which are important for understanding the importance of particular progenitor cells in the establishment and functionality of adult tissues.\n\nHowever, in some cases a particular gene of interest is turned on multiple times during development, and Cre-mediated ablation during that first wave of expression is lethal. In this scenario, it is possible to use an inducible version of the transgene: the Cre-ERt loxP approach. Here, the Cre-ERt is a fusion of the recombinase and Tamoxifen-responsive estrogen receptor (ERt). Cre-ERt will be expressed in the cytoplasm of cells expressing its upstream promoter, but will not translocate to the nucleus to conduct recombination until the animal is dosed with Tamoxifen. This tightly-regulated genetic approach to ablation studies has been an invaluable tool for learning about the hierarchy of cell fate during embryogenesis – as well as many other fields of research.\n\nCre-lox can also be used to permanently, fluorescently label cells by using a transgenic which contains a ubiquitous promoter such as β-actin driving a super-stop sequence flanked by loxP sites, upstream of a fluorescent protein sequence such as RFP. In this fashion, Julien Bertrand from David Traver's lab and Neil Chi discovered the endothelial-origin of hematopoietic (blood) stem cells in zebrafish by using a transgenic with an endothelial promoter, kdrl, driving Cre recombinase crossed to β-actin loxP transgenic fish (2010). Thus, in the presence of Cre, all endothelium-derived cells became indelibly fluorescent red since the super-stop was removed from the genome, and RFP will be expressed under the control of β-actin in all cellular progeny. Indeed, they found that nearly all hematopoietic stem cells and differentiated blood cells were RFP+, indicating their embryonic endothelial origin (See Figure 2). Similar site-directed recombination technology such as FLP-FRT recombination (Flippase and Flippase recognition target sites) is extremely powerful in cell fate mapping, ablation studies, and genetic mosaic analysis; this tool is also used heavily in studies in animal systems as divergent as mice and flies. In a similar fashion to reporter gene activation, Cre-lox recombination system can also be used to activate or inactivate a gene of interest, creating gain-of-function or loss-of-function models. As a matter of fact, researchers often need to perform lineage tracing whist perturbing a gene of interest. To this purpose, one could design a genetic model where within a cell one recombination event is designed for manipulating the gene of interest and the other recombination event is designed for activating a reporter gene. The fate of the cell whose gene is perturbed can then be followed and the function of the gene be revealed. Interpretation of this kind of cell lineage tracing experiments should be made with caution because the two recombination events may not occur simultaneously.\nWork in other animal models such as the nematode \"C. elegans\" was done with single-cell resolution prior to the widespread use of injectable cell tracers. The rapid embryonic development and transparent nature of the nematode allowed the construction of a hierarchical fate map of each mitotic event, from the single-cell zygote to the multicellular adult worm by John Sulston and colleagues in 1982. This cell lineage map was based entirely on observation using Nomarski optics, with no dyes.\n\nFor a comprehensive scientific review of fate mapping, this \"Lineage Tracing\" review published in Cell 2012 is a great one.\n\nMore recently, scientists have developed new tools inspired by past approaches. The use of fluorescent peptide tracers can be helpful, but in order to extend fate mapping to later stages when cells are smaller and thus difficult to consistently and selectively inject (unlike the 0.5mm leech embryo), modifications were made. Chemically-\"caged\" fluorescent peptides, such as caged Rhodamine-dextran or caged Fluorescein-dextran (FITC), have been developed to be non-fluorescent until hit with an ultraviolet (450 nm) laser, which \"uncages\" the compound and causes it to fluoresce. This tool was particularly well received in the zebrafish community since it is ideal to inject caged compound into a freshly fertilized, single-cell embryo that will rapidly develop over 24 hours into a transparent swimming larvae with approximately 30,000 cells. Injection of the compound into the single-cell embryo allows uniform distribution throughout all the cells of the developing embryo, and the dextran carrier, developed by Jochen Braun and Bob Glimich prevents diffusion between cells through gap junctions, which are common during embryogenesis. At a given stage of development, one can use a UV laser to uncage the compound in a distinct cell or set of cells, effectively labeling them red (Rhodamine) or green (FITC). The embryos can be allowed to develop normally until a later time, at which point they can be imaged for red or green fluorescence in the progeny of the uncaged cells. However, it is important to note that properly focusing the UV laser beam on an individual cell deep within the embryo is difficult. Sub-optimal focusing can lead to unintentional uncaging of cells outside the focal plane of the target cell. Also, uncaged Rhodamine has a short half-life, and must be imaged within 48 hours or the signal may be difficult to see. Similarly uncaged FITC is sometimes difficult to image later in development, and thus detection by immunostaining is often performed. Injected embryos must also be kept in the dark to avoid non-specific uncaging from ambient light.\n\nAside from chemical tracers, we can also lineage trace with GFP mRNA injection, over-express a protein of interest by injecting mRNA, knockdown expression by shRNA injection or mutant protein construct injection to see what cell types and tissues are affected during embryogenesis. Particularly mRNAs encoding histone tagged with green, cyan, yellow or red fluorescent proteins co-injected with mRNA for a membrane-bound fusion protein conjugated to another fluorophore, greatly enhance our ability to obtain high-resolution images of individual cell movements over time. Such microinjection experiments allow highly specific and selective cell manipulations superior to gross ablation experiments. Thus, specificity will facilitate the effective observation of injected cells and their neighbors and resultant deviations from normal development.\n\nFate mapping is therefore an extremely powerful tool for biologists, with new and improved tools constantly evolving to allow great resolution of what goes on during embryogenesis in various model organisms. Many genetic and chemical tools have been generated that allow long-term cell lineage tracing, bringing insight into the longevity of embryonic stem cells for various tissues. The ability to over-express and knockdown putative cell-fate patterning molecules and fluorescently label them, will also enhance our understanding of the extrinsic and intrinsic molecular cues required by various cell types during embryogenesis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1203776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1203776", "title": "Friedrich Spee", "text": "Friedrich Spee\n\nFriedrich Spee (also \"Friedrich Spee von Langenfeld\"; February 25, 1591 – August 7, 1635) was a German Jesuit priest, professor, and poet, most noted as an opponent of trials for witchcraft. Spee was the first person in his time to present strong written and spoken arguments against torture, especially with regards to its unreliability in obtaining \"truth\" from someone undergoing painful questioning.\n\nHis name is often incorrectly cited as \"Friedrich von Spee\".\n\nSpee was born at Kaiserswerth on the Rhine. On finishing his early education at Cologne, he entered the Society of Jesus in 1610, and pursued extensive studies and activity as a teacher at Trier, Fulda, Würzburg, Speyer, Worms and Mainz, where he was ordained a Catholic priest in 1622. He became professor at the University of Paderborn in 1624. From 1626 he taught at Speyer, Wesel, Trier and Cologne, and preached at Paderborn, Cologne and Hildesheim.\n\nAn attempt to assassinate Spee was made at Peine in 1629. He resumed his activity as professor and priest at Paderborn and later at Cologne, and in 1633 removed to Trier. During the storming of the city by the imperial forces in March 1635 (in the Thirty Years' War), he distinguished himself in the care of the suffering, and died soon afterwards of a plague infection contracted while ministering to wounded soldiers in a hospital.\n\nSpee's literary activity was largely confined to the last years of his life, the details of which are relatively obscure. Two of his works were not published until after his death: \"Goldenes Tugendbuch\" (Golden Book of Virtues), a book of devotion highly prized by Leibniz, and \"Trutznachtigall\" (Rivaling the Nightingale), a collection of fifty to sixty sacred songs, which take a prominent place among religious lyrics of the 17th century and have been repeatedly printed and updated through the present.\n\nHis principal work, the \"Cautio Criminalis\" (Precautions for Prosecutors), is a layout for the prosecution of witchcraft, based on his own experiences in Westphalia. It is thought that he acted for a long time as \"witch confessor\" in Würzburg, as he seemed to have knowledge of what could be considered the private thoughts of the condemned. The book was printed in Latin in 1631 at Rinteln without Spee's name or permission. He did not advocate the immediate abolition of trials for witchcraft, but described with sarcasm the abuses in the prevailing legal proceedings, particularly the use of the rack. He demanded measures of reform, such as a new German imperial law on the subject, and liability to damages on the part of the judges. If these had been carried out, they would have quickly put an end to the mass persecution of suspected witches.\n\nNevertheless, the \"Cautio Criminalis\" did bring about the abolition of witch-burning in a number of places, especially at Mainz, and led the way to its gradual suppression. The moral impact created by the publication was considerable. Even in the 17th century, a number of new editions and translations appeared. Among the members of Spee's Jesuit order, his treatise found a favourable reception. A memorable observation in the book suggested that Germany and England must have more witches and devils than Spain and Italy, since there were so many more stake burnings in the former. This may have been a not so subtle criticism of Protestant reform Europe, which he believed was guilty of even greater abuses than the Catholic countries. His book is still in print.\n\n\"Cautio Criminalis\" contains 52 questions which Spee argued and attempted to answer. Amongst his more notable conclusions were:\n\n\nSpee was particularly concerned about cases where a person was tortured and forced to denounce accomplices, who were then tortured and forced to denounce more accomplices, until everyone was under suspicion:\n\nSpee did not dispute the existence of witches, and opened his work with a declaration that witches are real. However, he was most troubled that innocent people were being tortured and killed alongside real witches, as he strongly believed. He argued (question 13) that the Parable of the Weeds in Matthew 13:24-30 meant that some of the guilty must be allowed freedom, so that the innocent are not condemned either.\n\nSpee wrote the lyrics and tunes of dozens of hymns, and is still the most heavily attributed author in German Catholic hymnals today. Although an anonymous hymnist during his lifetime, today he is credited with several popular works including the Advent song \"O Heiland, reiß die Himmel auf\", the Christmas carols \"Vom Himmel hoch, o Engel, kommt\" and \"\", and the Easter hymn \"Lasst uns erfreuen\" widely used with the 20th-century English texts \"Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones\" and \"All Creatures of Our God and King\".\n\nOther prominent contemporary critics of witch hunts:\n\n"}
{"id": "33812208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33812208", "title": "Fujiwara no Genshi", "text": "Fujiwara no Genshi\n\n, born , was an Empress consort of middle-Heian period Japan. She was an empress consort (\"chūgū\") of Emperor Go-Suzaku of Japan.\n\nShe was the adopted daughter of Fujiwara no Yorimichi and biological daughter of .\n\nGenshi's father Atsuyasu died in 1018. Her mother was the younger sister of Fujiwara no Yorimichi's official wife, Princess Takahime, and so the daughterless Yorimichi adopted her. In 1036, she acted as a substitute court lady in the purification ceremony at Emperor Go-Suzaku's first \"niiname-sai\" harvest festival. The next year, she entered his court as a court lady, and received the rank of . Two months later she was made \"chūgū\", displacing the existing empress consort Princess Teishi to \"kōgō\" and souring relations between Teishi and Yorimichi. Favored by the Emperor, Genshi bore him two girls, but died in childbirth at the age of 24 without giving birth to a prince.\n\nAccording to the , when Genshi was bathing ten days after giving birth, there was a great storm. Amidst the lightning and thunder and heavy rain, Genshi died on the spot. At the time, there was a rumor that the Fujiwara family god of Kasuga-taisha was angered that Genshi had been made Empress through adoption into the Fujiwara clan, despite blood ties to the Minamoto clan.\n\n"}
{"id": "8460632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8460632", "title": "Functional extinction", "text": "Functional extinction\n\nFunctional extinction is the extinction of a species or other taxon such that:\n\n\nIn plant populations, self-incompatibility mechanisms may cause related plant specimens to be incompatible, which may lead to functional extinction if an entire population becomes self-incompatible. This does not occur in larger populations.\n\nIn polygynous populations, where only a few males leave offspring, there is a much smaller reproducing population than if all viable males were considered. Furthermore, the successful males act as a genetic bottleneck, leading to more rapid genetic drift or inbreeding problems in small populations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4349253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4349253", "title": "Guy Standing", "text": "Guy Standing\n\nSir Guy Standing KBE (1 September 1873 – 24 February 1937) was an English actor.\n\nStanding served in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve throughout the First World War, reaching the rank of commander. He was seconded to the SIS, but transferred to the Ministry of Information in December 1917. In 1918, he was part of the British War Mission to the United States. For this service, he was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1918 and raised to Knight Commander (KBE) in the 1919 New Year Honours.\n\nAfter becoming a noted actor in British and American theatre, he moved to Hollywood in the early 1930s appearing in Paramount films. His best-known role is probably that of Colonel Stone, autocratic father of Lieutenant Stone (played by Richard Cromwell), in Henry Hathaway's \"Lives of a Bengal Lancer\" (1935).\n\nHe was the son of Herbert Standing (1846–1923), a noted actor from the stage and in silent films. His brothers Jack Standing, Herbert Standing Jr., Percy Standing and Wyndham Standing were also actors, as was his third wife Dorothy Hammond, (née Plaskitt; died 1950), his son Guy Standing Jr. and his daughter, Kay Hammond (née Dorothy Katherine Standing) and grandson John Standing.\n\nHis son by Dorothy Hammond, and brother of Kay Hammond, Michael Standing (died 1 December 1984), was the first live BBC cricket commentator and live radio commentator, known particularly for his \"Standing on the Corner\" slot in \"In Town Tonight\". After a distinguished war record as Head of Outside Broadcasting, he went on to become Director of Variety. In this role he was responsible for commissioning such classics as \"The Goon Show\", \"The Navy Lark\", \"Hancock's Half Hour\" and \"Round the Horne\". His later roles in radio management included the negotiation with the Musicians' Union to provide sufficient airtime for both recorded artists and live orchestras. The agreement he made enabled the start of Radio 1. Michael also wrote \"The Green Book\", a book of rules and principles put into practice by the BBC of Lord Reith.\n\nStanding's first wife was American stage actress Isabelle Urquhart, several years his senior. They divorced and she died in 1907 aged 42.\nStanding died from a heart attack, with cardiovascular disease as the likely cause. Rumours surrounding Standing's death suggested that he had died from the complications of either a black widow spider or rattlesnake bite, but this has been deemed false.\n\n"}
{"id": "18320302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18320302", "title": "Jurassic Fight Club", "text": "Jurassic Fight Club\n\nJurassic Fight Club (titled \"Dinosaur Secrets\" in Australia/UK) is a paleontology-based television series on History channel which premiered in the US in July 2008. \"Jurassic Fight Club\" was hosted by George Blasing, a self-taught paleontologist. The show ran for one season of 12 episodes and was not renewed.\n\nScientists study the battles of prehistoric creatures, such as dinosaurs, before they became extinct. Each episode features a forensic-styled breakdown of a prehistoric battle. Based on fossil evidence and paleontologic analysis, a computer-generated imagery rendering of the battle, based on the evidence and the imagination of George Blasing (the show's host) is the final act of each episode. In most cases, the battles are based on actual fossil finds, although in several episodes, scientists simply put two contemporaneous prehistoric animals against each other.\n\nThe \"Jurassic Fight Club\" game, \"Turf Wars\", can be found on history.com. Playing as one of six dinosaurs, skills are used to defeat the other five. Cheat codes can make players invincible, access special attacks, etc. These dinosaurs are featured in battle order with status:\n\nThe dinosaur-themed rock act Majungas credits the inspiration behind their band name and self-titled song \"Majunga\" the episode \"Cannibal Dinosaur\", which features \"Majungasaurus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "15012336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15012336", "title": "List of villages and towns depopulated of Jews during the Holocaust", "text": "List of villages and towns depopulated of Jews during the Holocaust\n\nBelow is a partial list of selected villages and towns \"(shtetls)\" depopulated of Jews during the Holocaust. The liquidation actions were carried out mostly by the Nazi Einsatzgruppen and Orpo police as well as auxiliary battalions through mass killings. The German \"pacification\" units of the Einsatzkommando were paramilitary forces within the Schutzstaffel, under the high command of the Obergruppenführer. The \"Einsatzgruppen\" operated primarily in the years 1941–45.\n\n\n\nThe following Jewish communities in Lithuania were destroyed during the Holocaust. Note that the list includes places in modern, post-1991 Lithuania, some of which were in German-occupied Poland during the war.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17212039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17212039", "title": "Margaret Barry", "text": "Margaret Barry\n\nMargaret Barry (1917–1989) was an Irish Traveller, traditional singer and banjo player. She became a well-known name on the London folk scene in the 1950s, with her distinctive singing style and idiosyncratic banjo accompaniment.\nBorn Margaret Cleary in Cork into a family of Travellers and street singers, she taught herself how to play the zither banjo and the fiddle at a young age. At the age of sixteen, after a family disagreement, Margaret left home and started performing as a street musician.\n\nIn the early 1950s she moved to London. With her flamboyant delivery and idiosyncratic banjo-playing, Barry became well known in the pubs and clubs of Irish London, where she was frequently accompanied by the fiddler Michael Gorman. Barry's singing and banjo playing became a major influence on the younger generation of ballad singers in Ireland and the UK, including Luke Kelly.\n\nOne song for which Barry is particularly noted is \"She Moved Through the Fair\". Asked by an interviewer, Karl Dallas, whether she had learned it from her family or from other Travellers, she replied cheerfully, \"Oh, no. I got it off a gramophone record by Count John McCormack\". \n\nThe accompanying book to the Topic Records 70 year anniversary boxed set \"Three Score and Ten\" lists \"Her Mantle So Green\" as one of the classic albums and \"The Factory Girl\" from \"Street Songs and Fiddle Tunes of Ireland\" with Michael Gorman is track 9 on the third CD in the set.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2646684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2646684", "title": "Mariano Moreno", "text": "Mariano Moreno\n\nMariano Moreno (; September 23, 1778 – March 4, 1811) was an Argentine lawyer, journalist, and politician. He played a decisive role in the Primera Junta, the first national government of Argentina, created after the May Revolution.\n\nMoreno was born in Buenos Aires in 1778. His father was Manuel Moreno y Argumosa, born in Santander, Spain, who arrived in the city in 1776 and married María del Valle. Mariano was the firstborn of the Moreno family and had thirteen brothers. During his youth he studied Latin, logic, and philosophy at San Carlos Royal College, followed by college studies of law at Chuquisaca. During these studies, he learned the new ideas of the Spanish Enlightenment. He married María Guadalupe Cuenca and returned to Buenos Aires, becoming a prominent lawyer for the Cabildo. Unlike most other criollos, he rejected the Carlotist project and the administration of Santiago de Liniers, joining instead the ill-fated mutiny of Álzaga against him. He worked for the next viceroy, Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros. He wrote the economic paper \"The Representation of the Landowners\", which persuaded the viceroy to open trade with Britain.\n\nAlthough he was not prominently involved in the May Revolution that deposed Cisneros, he was appointed as secretary of war of the new government, the Primera Junta. Along with Juan José Castelli, he promoted harsh policies against the supporters of the former government and the strengthening of the new one. These policies were detailed in a secret document, the \"Operations plan\"; some historians dispute its authorship. Moreno organized military campaigns to Paraguay and Upper Peru and ensured the execution of Santiago de Liniers after the defeat of his counter-revolution. He established the first Argentine newspaper, \"La Gazeta de Buenos Ayres\", and translated Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"The Social Contract\" into Spanish.\n\nWhen the Junta achieved the first military victories, President Cornelio Saavedra opposed Moreno, favoring moderate policies instead. Allied with Gregorio Funes, Saavedra expanded the number of members of the Junta to leave Morenism in a minority. With disputes still going on, Moreno was appointed to a diplomatic mission to Britain but died at sea on the way there. His brother Manuel Moreno alleged that he was poisoned. His supporters were still an influential political party for some years after his death. Historians hold several perspectives about the role and historical significance of Moreno, from hagiography to repudiation. He is considered the precursor of Argentine journalism.\n\nMariano Moreno was the eldest of 14 children of poor parents, Manuel Moreno y Argumosa (born in Santander, Spain) and Ana María Valle. He studied at Colegio Grande de San Carlos, but without living in it, as his family could not afford the price. He graduated with an honorary diploma. He met influential people within the literary field, who helped him to continue his studies at the University of Chuquisaca, even when his father could not afford the cost. This was the only big university in South America at the time. He studied the books of Montesquieu, Voltaire, Denis Diderot, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and other European philosophers of the Age of Enlightenment. He studied English and French languages as well, to understand authors from Britain and France. This allowed him to work as a translator, and he spent several years working with Rousseau's \"The Social Contract\". Moreno was convinced that society could be changed by the power of intelligence and reason.\n\nHe also studied philosophical texts of the Spanish Enlightenment under the tutelage of the priest Terrazas and aspired to implement the new ideas in his country. He wrote a thesis with strong criticism of the native slavery at the mines of Potosí, influenced by the Spanish jurist Juan de Solorzano Pereira, the foremost publisher of Indian Law, and Victoria Villalva, fiscal of the Audiencia of Charcas and defender of the indigenous cause.\n\nHe started his professional career between 1803 and 1804, in the office of Augustine Gascón, officiating as labor counselor for Indians. As a result, he confronted powerful people like the mayors of Cochabamba and Chayanta. He left the city after being threatened and returned to Buenos Aires in 1805 with his wife Maria Guadalupe Cuenca and their newborn son. Once in the city, he became a reporter of the hearings of the Royal Audiencia, a local appeallate court. The Buenos Aires Cabildo, the local council, hired him as an advisor as well. He defended Melchor Fernández, aggrieved by Bishop Benito Lue y Riega, in one of his first cases. In another of his early disputes, he backed the Cabildo in denying the appointment as an ensign of the young Bernardino Rivadavia.\n\nA British army invaded Buenos Aires in 1806, starting the British invasions of the Río de la Plata. Although Moreno was not actively involved with the military counter-offensive which drove them out, he opposed the British presence in Buenos Aires. He wrote a diary that noted all the events, so that, in the future, his countrymen would know the circumstances that allowed such an invasion. The British made a new attack in 1807, this time invading Montevideo. They published a bilingual English–Spanish newspaper known as \"The Southern Star\" or \"La estrella del sur\" (the newspaper used both names in conjunction). It advocated free trade, a British goal, and promoted American independence under British protection. The Royal Audiencia of Buenos Aires banned the newspaper and requested Moreno to write articles refuting those of the British publication. Moreno refused because, although he did not accept British rule, he agreed with some of their criticisms of the Spanish government. Fearing a new attack to Buenos Aires, Moreno left the city with his whole family and relocated in the countryside. His house in Buenos Aires, left unoccupied, was used to keep prisoner William Carr Beresford, the British commander of the first invasion. Several friends of Moreno helped Beresford to escape and move to Montevideo, but it is unknown if Moreno was aware of the plan.\n\nAlthough Mariano Moreno was a criollo, a Spanish citizen born in the Americas, he did not work with the other criollos of Buenos Aires who sought to promote political changes against the privileges of the Spanish-born. Unlike the criollo politicians Manuel Belgrano and Juan José Castelli, he did not support viceroy Liniers or the Carlotist project, which sought the coronation of Carlota of Spain in the Americas. He joined mayor Martín de Álzaga instead, which allowed him to serve as a legal adviser of the Cabildo. In that capacity, he wrote a petition to the King of Spain, so that the Buenos Aires Cabildo was named \"Protector of the Cabildos of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata\". As a result, all petitions from local cabildos to the King or the Viceroy would be channeled through the Cabildo at the capital.\n\nMartín de Álzaga organized a mutiny on January 1, 1809, and Moreno joined it. Álzaga aspired to replace Viceroy Santiago de Liniers with a government Junta, after learning of the capture of the Spanish King Ferdinand VII during the Peninsular War and the creation of the Junta of Seville. If it prevailed, Mariano Moreno would have been part of the new Junta. The mutiny was defeated by the swift reaction of Cornelio Saavedra, in command of the Regiment of Patricians, who dispersed the crowd and persuaded Liniers not to abdicate. It is disputed by historians whenever the mutiny had similar or opposite goals to those of the May Revolution that would take place a year later. The historians who support the latter perspective try to make attempts to excuse or justify Moreno's involvement; those who support the former consider instead that Moreno was a revolutionary a year before most other Argentines. Moreno was Álzaga's lawyer in the trial that followed, which was labeled a trial for \"independentism\". Liniers did not extend the trial to Moreno himself, for reasons unknown.\n\nLiniers was succeeded by Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros a few months later, who pardoned the mutineers to reduce political conflicts. Cisneros allowed free trade as well, as instructed by the Junta of Seville, which benefited British merchants; Britain was allied with Spain in the Peninsular War. The agents of the Consulate of Cadiz asserted that this would hurt the local economy, moral values, social usages, religious practices, and the loyalty to Spain and its monarchy. As a result, Cisneros closed trade again, restoring the Spanish monopsony. A group of hacendados (owners of haciendas), who did not feel adequately represented at the Cabildo, asked Moreno to defend them. Moreno wrote \"The Representation of the Landowners\", a report that represented the export interest of the landowners, encouraged free trade and condemned the privileges of the merchants benefited from the monopsony. It is considered the most comprehensive economic report from the time of the viceroyalty. It represented the new European economic ideas and noted that the legal monopsony with Spain did not prevent British goods from being smuggled. Several authors have questioned Moreno's authorship of the paper, considering it instead an update of another, previously drafted by Manuel Belgrano, Secretary of the Commerce Consulate of Buenos Aires, written to make a similar request to the former viceroy Liniers. This report, as well as Moreno's prestige in the colonial society, helped him gain the confidence of Cisneros. Yet secretly, Moreno supported the plan to dismiss the Viceroy.\n\nMariano Moreno had several contacts with groups seeking the removal of Cisneros but was not strongly involved with the May Revolution, which considered the fall of the Junta of Seville a reason to depose the viceroy and create a local junta. At the time, Moreno was still loyal to Álzaga. He attended the May 22 open Cabildo, but according to the father of Vicente Fidel López and the father-in-law of Bartolomé Mitre (both direct witness) he stayed silent at one side and did not join the debate. He voted for Saavedra's proposal: to remove viceroy Cisneros and replace him with a Junta. Manuel Hermenegildo Aguirre, captain of hussars, proposed that the Cabildo take the reins of government, with five men appointed as counselors, Moreno among them. However, nobody else voted for that proposal, and it was the only one that included him. Moreno felt betrayed when the Cabildo twisted the results of the open Cabildo and created a Junta that would be headed by Cisneros. He refused any further contacts with the revolutionaries and stayed home during the remaining events. The definitive members of the Junta came from a popular petition signed on May 25, which was given to the Cabildo. The reasons for Moreno's inclusion in the list are unclear, as with all other members of the Junta. A commonly accepted theory considers it to be a balance between Carlotists and Alzaguists.\n\nThe Junta faced strong opposition from the beginning: it was resisted locally by the Cabildo and the Royal Audiencia, still loyal to the absolutist factions; the nearby plazas of Montevideo and Paraguay did not recognize it, and Santiago de Liniers organized a counter-revolution at Córdoba. Mariano Moreno, an unimportant politician up to that point, became the leader of the most radical supporters of the Junta. He was supported by the popular leaders Domingo French and Antonio Beruti, Dupuy, Donado, Orma, and Cardozo; and priests like Grela and Aparicio. Historian Carlos Ibarguren described that Morenist youths roamed the streets preaching new ideas to each pedestrian they found, turned the \"Marcos\" coffee shop into a political hall, and proposed that all social classes should be illustrated. Manuel Belgrano and Juan José Castelli supported Moreno within the Junta, and French was promoted to Colonel of the regiment \"América\". This regiment, also known as \"The Star\" because of a star that they wore on their sleeves, was composed of radical youths led by French during the riots of the May Revolution.\n\nMoreno established the official newspaper \"Gazeta de Buenos Ayres\" through a June 2 decree and managed its contents. The first newspapers were available to the public five days later. He issued a freedom of the press decree, which allowed the press to publish anything that did not offend public morals or attack the Revolution or the government. Moreno published some works of Gaspar de Jovellanos and his translation of Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"The Social Contract\". In this later work, he skipped the chapter about religion, suggesting that the author \"has raved in religious matters\". This was done to prevent religious disputes among patriots. This publication was criticized by conservatives such as Tomás de Anchorena, who said that it could generate popular unrest. As with the Junta itself, Moreno's writings maintained loyalty to Ferdinand VII. It is unclear to historians whether he was concealing pro-independence ambitions, or was truly loyal to the deposed king. However, he made specific references to independentism as early as November 1810. In reference to the Courts of Cádiz that would write a Constitution, he said that the Congress \"may establish an absolute disposal of our beloved Ferdinand\", meaning that the right of self-determination would allow even that. He did not think the monarchical authority to be absolute, but subject to popular sovereignty, so that a monarch may lose his authority if he worked against the common good of the people. He also considered that if Ferdinand VII returned to the throne, he would not be able to challenge a Constitution written in his absence. However, he wrote that as a hypothetical scenario, to describe the strength of a Constitution, not as a likely possibility.\n\nMoreno issued several decrees during his first days in government. He ordered punishment for anyone attempting to generate disputes, and for those concealing conspiracies against the Junta or other people. The military bodies of \"Pardos\" and \"Morenos\", composed of indigenous peoples, were reformed to have military ranks similar to those of the Spanish military bodies. He did this by invoking the rulings of the Catholic Monarchs during the early Spanish colonization of the Americas.\n\nAlthough the Junta of Seville was defeated, a new one was created afterward, the Regency Council. The Primera Junta did not swear loyalty to it, but the Royal Audiencia did so in defiance of the local authority. The Junta summoned them, along with former viceroy Cisneros, and exiled them to Spain with the pretext that there was a threat to their lives. The Junta appointed new members for the Audiencia loyal to the revolution. Moreno wrote in the \"Gazeta\" that the Audiencia attacked the good faith of the government and that the Junta left their usual moderation for the safety of the people.\n\nThe Junta was rejected in Montevideo, as was the exile of Cisneros and the former Audiencia. Moreno reacted immediately, replying to the Montevidean concerns. He supported the legitimacy of the Primera Junta by criticizing the Regency Council and stating that the overseas Spanish territories were equally capable of creating Juntas, as it was debated during the open cabildo. He also called for unity and support of the metropolis, and that both cities recognize Ferdinand VII as their legitimate monarch. He argued that the Junta treated the exiles initially with moderation, but their obstinacy, particularly on the part of Cisneros, generated popular discontent. Matías Irigoyen told the same thing to the British Lord Strangford in Río de Janeiro.\n\nMoreno organized two military expeditions to counter the threat of the plazas that resisted the Junta.\n\nThe first one, headed by Francisco Ortiz de Ocampo, would move to Córdoba and attack the counter-revolution organized by the former viceroy Santiago de Liniers; they next went to Upper Peru. Ocampo's initial orders were to capture the counter-revolutionary leaders and send them to Buenos Aires so that they could be judged. When the counter-revolution became stronger Moreno called the Junta and, with support from Castelli and Paso, proposed that the enemy leaders should be shot as soon as they were captured instead of brought to trial. The Junta accepted the new proposal and delivered it to Ocampo.\n\nThe counter-revolution was defeated the following August, but Ocampo did not execute his prisoners. Gregorio Funes, head of the patriotic party of Córdoba, persuaded him to spare them because the prisoners were popular in Córdoba and the people would not support their deaths. Besides Liniers, the prisoners included the governor of Córdoba and the bishop of the city. Ocampo stuck to the initial orders and delivered the prisoners to the city. Moreno did not accept it and told Ocampo that a general should simply obey orders. He called a new meeting of the Junta, and produced a paper left at his home which said, \"If Liniers does not die, LET HIM LIVE!\" (note: the second part was written in capital letters in the original). The Junta agreed to fire Ocampo and replace him with Castelli, with Nicolás Rodríguez Peña as secretary and Domingo French leading the escort. They intercepted the convoy at Cabeza de Tigre and executed them, except for Bishop Orellana, because of his religious endowment. The Auxiliary Army, commanded by Ocampo and Castelli, was renamed as the Army of the North and launched the First Alto Perú campaign. Moreno gave harsh new instructions for it; namely:\n\nThe context was not favorable: only Cochabamba and Charcas made a genuine support of the revolution, and some indigenous people hesitated in joining, fearing the consequences of a possible royalist counter-attack. The Morenist projects for Upper Peru, which included the emancipation of the indigenous peoples and the nationalization of the mines of Potosi, were resisted by the local populations that were benefiting from the system already in force. Castelli proposed to advance the military campaign even closer to Lima, but Moreno asked him to stay at his position.\n\nThe other military expedition moved to Paraguay, commanded by Manuel Belgrano. Following instructions from Moreno, he helped the natives at the missions in Corrientes, on his way to Paraguay. He gave them full civil and political rights, granted lands, authorized commerce with the United Provinces, removed taxes for ten years, abolished any type of torture, and lifted restrictions on taking public or religious office.\n\nMoreno promoted stronger measures against the royalists. In July, he gave orders to the neighboring mayors to prevent the creation of secret groups, or activities that could promote alienation. He promoted a new decree of the Junta that called for trial and confiscation of goods for anyone that left the city without authorization, kept military weapons in secret, promoted popular alienation or discontent against the government, or wrote letters to people in other cities for such a purpose. Serious cases were usually punished with execution or exile. Some rich people exiled by this decree were Francisco Beláustegui, Olaguer Reynals, Norberto de Quirno y Echeandía, and Pablo Villariño. Manuel Andrés Arroyo y Pinedo, another rich man, blamed Moreno for these actions, accusing him of equaling disagreement with anti-patriotism, and felt that the ideas of egalitarianism would only cause great evils. Those measures were also criticized by moderate supporters of the revolution, such as Gregorio Funes from Córdoba, who rejected the lack of proper trials, or Dámaso Uriburu, from Salta, who compared Moreno, Castelli, and Vieytes with the French Jacobins.\n\nBy this time, Moreno thought that the only way to secure the Revolution would be if it was successful throughout the continent. However, he considered that Latin American integration should be achieved peacefully among equals, and not as the result of a conquest campaign. He wrote at the \"Gazeta\" that \"even as pure as our intentions may be, it would be dangerous if the freedom of America was just our own work. Such a circumstance could lead to a real despotism and the Peruvian peoples would not improve having porteño oppressors instead of European ones.\" He made positive comments about the rebellions at Cochabamba and Chile.\n\nFollowing a proposal of Manuel Belgrano, the Junta wrote a political platform setting broad goals and procedures to follow to achieve its objectives. The creation of this document, whose name is often summarized simply as the \"Operations plan\", was trusted to Mariano Moreno. There have been disputes about the authenticity of this document. Some historians like Paul Groussac suspect that the document was a literary forgery, prepared by a Spaniard at the Court of Portugal to discredit the Junta. Supporters of the truthfulness of the document like Norberto Piñeiro, allege that the content would be consistent with government actions taken by the Primera Junta.\n\nThe document states the need to defeat the royalist forces and therefore proposes many possible actions similar to those employed by Jacobins during the Reign of Terror of the French Revolution. It rejected the use of political moderation, considering that it would be dangerous during revolutionary times. It compared the South American revolution, still in its early stages, with the French and North American ones, and even the revolution in Spain itself, pointing out that none of those relied solely upon conspiracies or secret meetings. The document proposes to favor patriots and fill the state offices with them. Peninsulars, on the other hand, should be carefully monitored, and punished at the slightest proof of action against the Junta, and executed if they were rich or influential. For this end, the Junta would need to create an espionage network. This policy towards peninsulars is coherent with the actions taken against the Liniers Counter-revolution and similar to the one employed by Simón Bolívar in the North shortly after. Moreno thought that José Gervasio Artigas would be an invaluable ally and that Buenos Aires should use any resource at its disposal to have him join the fight against absolutism. He noted the internal conflicts in Chile and Paraguay and urged support of local patriots against local royalists.\n\nOn the level of international relations, Mariano Moreno rejected slavery in Brazil, a neighboring Portuguese colony. He proposed to distribute large numbers of \"Gazeta de Buenos Ayres\" newspapers, filled with libertarian ideas and translated into Portuguese, and provide military support to the slaves if they should riot. He considered the risk of a complete Spanish defeat in the Peninsular War or a restoration of absolutism great menaces and regarded Britain as a potential ally against them. During a conflict, Britain would be able to provide them with weapons and other goods not produced locally. Critics of Moreno consider him an Anglophile because of this proposal, but the same document also warns against the risk of allowing Britain too much influence in the national economy. He criticized the relationship between Britain and Portugal, considering that Portugal was subject to a \"shameful slavery\" to Britain and that British influence in Brazil was so high that the Portuguese colonies might eventually become British ones. Moreno held the same ideas about being simultaneously friendly and cautious with Britain in the pages of the \"Gazeta\" newspaper.\n\nIn the economic field, the document addressed the lack of a bourgeoisie that could turn the political changes into economic development and proposed to overcome this lack with strong state interventionism. Mariano Moreno proposed that the state invest 200 or 300 million in factories, manufacturing, arts, agriculture, navigation, and other critical areas. There would be no risk of bankruptcy because the state would manage the businesses. With the money generated, the state would then seek seeds and tools and ultimately allow the continent to be economically autarchic. The initial money that the state would need to become such an active economic force would come from the mines in Potosi, where the slavers had nearly 500 or 600 million. Moreno proposed simply to confiscate the money and nationalize the mines. He reasoned that five or six thousand people would be harmed by such action, but eighty or a hundred thousand would benefit. The state would not manage those areas indefinitely; Moreno proposed that this should be done only until there was a strong economic activity in each area, and then the state would just observe, making sure that they followed the laws enacted for the common good of society.\n\nEarly 19th-century liberalism did not promote confiscation among their common proposals, but an antecedent of this proposal was the Conspiracy of the Equals, promoted by François-Noël Babeuf during the French Revolution. Moreno thought that state-sized fortunes managed by a few individuals were detrimental to civil society, and those individuals would tend to manage the economy for their own benefit, without fixing the problems of society at large.\n\nThe document proposed to avoid exporting money and to include high tariffs on the import of luxury goods. This is often seen as a contradiction of \"The Representation of the Hacendados\", but each request different things. The Representation opposed the absolute prohibition of trade with Britain, which is not the same than allowing it while following a protectionist policy. As secretary, Moreno reduced the tariffs on national exports but kept high ones for imports.\n\nMariano Moreno and Cornelio Saavedra had disagreements about the events of the May Revolution and the way to run the government; their disputes became public shortly after the creation of the Junta. Saavedra was the president, and Moreno was a secretary with the support of other vocal members. Ignacio Núñez describes how Morenists felt that the President was attempting to restore in his office the authority of the viceroys, thus downgrading the importance of the other members of the Junta at public events; while Saavedrists considered that the Secretary was overstepping his authority and did not allow even the appointment of a janitor that was not of his liking. However, Domingo Matheu would clarify in his memoirs that their initial concerns with Saavedra were based more on his desire for honors and privileges than for a real power struggle. Núñez described how Moreno was resisted by some criollos who initially supported the revolution without being aware of the long-term consequences. He was resisted by criollos alarmed by his straightforward way of talking about concepts like self-determination, tyranny, slavery, and freedom. Theologians resented that Moreno cited authors like Rousseau, Voltaire, or Montesquieu rather than Christian philosophers like Saint Augustine or Saint Thomas. He was also resisted by conservative lawyers and by most of the military.\n\nBy October, Moreno's measures started to generate resistance among some who initially supported the May Revolution. Traders did not like the protectionist policy, and some members of the military had close ties with rich people and opposed their punishment. On October 16 it was discovered that ten members of the Cabildo had sworn loyalty to the Regency Council the past July, and they were all jailed. This included Julián Leiva and Juan José de Lezica. Moreno and Saavedra had a dispute when the Junta was deciding what to do. Moreno proposed executing them as a deterrent, accusing them of working with the Montevideo Cabildo, the enemy of the Junta. Saavedra replied that the government should promote leniency, and rejected the use of the Patricians Regiment to carry out such executions. The prisoners were finally exiled to Luján, Ranchos, and Salto, and Leiva was housed by Gregorio Funes in Córdoba.\n\nBy this point, the only military support for Moreno was Domingo French, head of \"The Star\" regiment. Castelli and Belgrano supported him but were far away from the capital on their respective military campaigns. The activists of the May Revolution supported him as well, as did other members of the Junta and other patriots like Vieytes and Nicolás Rodríguez Peña. Saavedra kept the strong support of the Regiment of Patricians and added that of the merchants and even some supporters of the former regime who deemed the moderated Saavedra a lesser evil. Moreno sought to modify the military balance of power by reforming the promotion rules. Up until that point, the sons of officials were automatically granted the status of cadet and were promoted just by seniority; Moreno arranged that promotions were earned by military merits instead. However, in the short run, this measure worked against him, as it antagonized members of the military who got promoted precisely because of such rules. He also thought that support from the lower classes was instrumental to the success of the Revolution, and wrote letters to Chiclana instructing him to generate such support at Upper Peru. Such popular involvement would take time to consolidate: the Guerra Gaucha, the War of the Republiquetas, and the rise of José Gervasio Artigas took place later, not as of 1810.\n\nSaavedra increased his resistance to Moreno's proposals after the victory at the Battle of Suipacha, considering that the revolution had defeated its enemies and should relax its severity in consequence. The Regiment of Patricians hosted a banquet celebration at the barracks, restricting attendance to the military and supporters of Saavedra. Moreno was not allowed to pass by the guards at the door, which generated a small incident. That same night, Officer Atanasio Duarte, who was drunk, gave a crown of sugar to Saavedra's wife and saluted Saavedra as if he was the new king or emperor of the Americas. The next day, when Moreno heard about the incident, he wrote the \"Honours Suppression decree\", which suppressed the ceremony usually reserved for the president of the Junta and inherited privileges of the office of viceroy. Duarte was exiled, and Moreno's act was justified by stating that \"An inhabitant of Buenos Aires neither drunk nor asleep should be expressed against the freedom of his country\". Saavedra signed the decree without complaint, but Gregorio Funes felt that the Patricians resented Moreno because of this. \n\nThe conflicts between Moreno and Saavedra generated international reactions. Lord Strangford complained about the later actions of the Junta, such as the execution of Liniers, which were seen as more violent than the initial ones. Brazil was also concerned because many copies of the \"Gazeta\" were being distributed in Rio Grande do Sul, influencing their slaves with libertarian ideas. The Brazilian government sent Carlos José Guezzi to Buenos Aires, with the purpose of mediating in the conflict with the royalists at Montevideo and to ratify the aspirations of Carlota Joaquina to rule as regent. He met Saavedra in his first interview, in July, and got a positive impression of him. Saavedra said that if Carlota's rights were confirmed by the Spanish monarchy, Buenos Aires would support her, even if it meant they had to stand against the other provinces. The following month he requested a representative for the Court of Brazil, offered Carlota's mediation with Montevideo, and pointed out that Brazil had forces near the frontier, awaiting orders to attack the revolution. This time, Moreno resisted. Moreno rejected sending a representative and told him that the Junta did not work for the interests of Brazil, but for those of the United Provinces. He rejected the mediation as well, considering that no mediation was possible under a military threat. Guezzi was immediately sent back to Rio de Janeiro on the first available ship. He described Moreno as \"the Robespierre of the day\", and accused the Junta of attempting to build a republic.\n\nIn December, the deputies of the other provinces convened by the circular of May 27 arrived in Buenos Aires. Most of them were closer to the ideas of Saavedra, and Gregorio Funes became highly influential over them. They did not agree about which body they should join: the deputies wanted to join the Junta, while Moreno thought that they should start a constituent assembly. Funes, allied with Saavedra, calculated that they could stop Moreno by joining the Junta, as his proposals would be agreed to by a minority. The Junta, with both its original members and the deputies, discussed the topic on December 18. Funes said that Buenos Aires had no right to rule the other provinces without their consent, and got the support of the other members. He said that there was popular discontent with the Junta. The supporters of Moreno said that such discontent was only among some rebels, and Moreno said that it was only the discontent of the Patricians in respect of the Suppressions decree. However, only Paso voted with him, and the deputies joined the Junta. Moreno resigned, but his resignation was rejected. His opposition to the incorporation of the deputies is seen by some historians as an initial step in the conflict between Buenos Aires and the other provinces, which dominated politics in Argentina during the following decades. Some call it a precursor of the Unitarian Party, while others find his words or actions more consistent with the Federalist Party. However, historians Paul Groussac and Norberto Piñeiro feel it is inappropriate to extrapolate so far into the future. Piñeiro considered it an error to label Moreno as federal or unitary, proving that this organization been prioritized over the secondary aspect of centralism or federalism, while Groussac similarly notes that Moreno devoted all his energies to the immediate problem of achieving independence without giving much thought to possible long-term scenarios.\n\nHipólito Vieytes was about to make a diplomatic mission to Britain, but Moreno requested that he should be given the appointment instead. Saavedra accepted immediately. He traveled to Britain with his brother Manuel Moreno and his secretary Tomás Guido, on the British schooner \"Fame\". His health declined and there was no doctor on board, but the captain refused requests to land at some earlier port such as in Río de Janeiro (Brazil) or Cape Town (South Africa). The captain gave him an emetic in common use at that time, prepared with four grams of antimony potassium tartrate. Moreno had great convulsions as a consequence and considered that in his state he could not have resisted more than the quarter of a gram. He died shortly afterward. His body was wrapped in a Union Jack and thrown into the sea, after a volley of musketry.\n\nManuel Moreno speculated later that he was poisoned by the captain. Manuel Moreno was unsure of whether the captain really gave him that substance, or if he substituted something else, or gave an even higher dose. Circumstances did not allow an autopsy to be performed. Further points used to sustain the idea of a murder are the captain's refusal to land elsewhere, his slow sailing, his administration of the emetic in secrecy, and that he didn't return to Buenos Aires with the ship. Enrique de Gandía pointed to an irregular ruling of the Junta that appointed a British person named Curtis as Moreno's replacement for the diplomatic mission in the case of Moreno's death. The son of Mariano Moreno commented to the historian Adolfo Saldías that his mother, Guadalupe Cuenca, received an anonymous gift of a mourning hand fan and handkerchief, with instructions to use them soon. By that time, the murder of Moreno was a common assumption, and it was mentioned during the trial of residence of the members of the Junta. Juan Madera stated at the trial that Moreno may have requested to go to Britain because he was afraid of being murdered and that he may have stated this during the meeting when the Junta discussed his resignation. Modern author Manuel Luis Martín studied the health of both Moreno and his family and concluded that he died of natural causes.\n\nDespite the death of Mariano Moreno, his supporters were still an influential party in Buenos Aires. Morenists accused Saavedra and Funes of plotting to allow the coronation of Carlota and organized a rebellion with \"The Star\" Regiment. However, the Saavedrists became aware of it and organized another rebellion on May 5 and 6, 1811. This rebellion requested strong changes in the government: the removal of Morenists Nicolás Rodríguez Peña, Hipólito Vieytes, Miguel Azcuénaga, and Juan Larrea from the Junta; the exile of Domingo French, Antonio Beruti, Agustín Donado, Gervasio Posadas and Ramón Vieytes; and the return and trial of Manuel Belgrano. Thus, the Morenist party was set apart from the government.\n\nThe Saavedrist hegemony was short-lived. The military defeats of Castelli and Belgrano started a new political crisis, and the First Triumvirate replaced the Junta Grande as the executive power, and then closed it completely. The former supporters of Moreno (Belgrano, Dupuy, Tomás Guido, Beruti, Monteagudo, French, Vicente López) would later support the campaign of José de San Martín. The Argentine war of independence would give room to the Argentine Civil War between unitarians and federals. Saavedrists like Martín Rodríguez, Ortiz de Ocampo, de la Cruz—and even Saavedra himself—became unitarians. Manuel Moreno, French, Agrelo, Vicente López, and Pancho Planes opposed both the First Triumvirate and the presidency of unitarian Bernardino Rivadavia. Manuel Moreno and Tomás Guido, in particular, worked in the government of the most powerful federal leader, Juan Manuel de Rosas.\n\nEarly Argentine historians described Mariano Moreno as the leader of the Revolution and a great historical man. Later liberal historians would embellish this portrayal even more. An example of this tendency is \"La Revolución de Mayo y Mariano Moreno\" by Ricardo Levene. Biographers would describe him as a serene statesman, a notable economist, a decided democrat, and a great leader. For those historians, Moreno would have been an Anglophile, and \"The Representation of the Hacendados\", the government platform of the May Revolution.\n\nSubsequently, revisionist authors would formulate accusations against him, while promoting Saavedra as a popular leader. According to those authors, Moreno was a British agent, a demagogic \"caudillo\", a paranoid, a mere man of theoretical ideas applying European principles that failed in the local context, wrongly portrayed as the leader of the Revolution by the liberal historiography. \"Año X\" by Hugo Wast is considered the harshest work against Moreno. Moreno was still considered an Anglophile but in a negative light. They blamed Moreno for the harsh policies of the Junta, considering him a terrorist or a predecessor of Marxism; liberal historians usually concealed these policies.\n\nModern authors like Ernesto Palacio, Norberto Galasso, and Jorge Abelardo Ramos attempt to rescue the image of Moreno by avoiding both extremes: the sweet liberal Moreno and the horrible one written by revisionists. Those historians do not consider Bernardino Rivadavia a successor of Moreno, and the proposals to seek an alliance with Britain are not seen as the product of Anglophilia, but just an example of the limited options available to the Primera Junta. Similarly, they do not attribute much influence to the \"Representation...\", considering it a mere work for a client that didn't really influence Cisneros, who would have allowed free trade for international contexts. The harsh policies are acknowledged, but not attributed specifically to Moreno, but rather to the whole Junta, and compared with similar royalist measures used to punish the Chuquisaca, the La Paz revolution, and the indigenous rebellion of Túpac Amaru II.\n\nMariano Moreno is regarded as the first Argentine journalist, as he created the \"Gazeta de Buenos Ayres\". June 7, the day this newspaper was first available to the public, is recognized in Argentina as \"Journalist's Day\" since 1938. The \"Gazeta\", however, was not the first newspaper in Buenos Aires, but the first one since the May Revolution. The first newspaper was the \"Telégrafo Mercantil\" (1801), followed by the \"Semanario de Agricultura Industria y Comercio\" (1802) and the \"Correo de Comercio de Buenos Aires\" (1810), edited during the colonial period.\n\nMoreno was the only one to sign the decree that established the newspaper, but the text implies that it was the result of a discussion of the whole Junta, and not just his initiative. A fellow member of the Junta, Manuel Alberti, was appointed as the director of the newspaper. However, Alberti never actually directed the newspaper; Moreno did. Historian Guillermo Furlong considers that it was really Alberti who directed the newspaper, but the memoirs of José Pedro Agrelo (a later director), Tomás Guido, and Saavedra confirm that the newspaper was managed by Moreno. Moreno has also been promoted as a supporter of the freedom of the press, but the \"Gazeta...\" was actually a state-sponsored newspaper, and the Junta allowed such freedom only for information that was not against the interests of the government. According to Norberto Galasso, that situation would today be considered media bias.\n\nThe Moreno family was poor but could afford a house and some slaves. Ana María Valle y Ramos, Mariano's mother, was one of the few literate women in Buenos Aires. Mariano Moreno was the firstborn of fourteen children. Mariano moved to Chuquisaca with his brother Manuel Moreno and their friend Tomás Guido once the family raised the money. The long and difficult journey gave Mariano a rheumatism attack; he had to stay in bed for fifteen days on arrival. He had further attacks years later. Moreno met María Guadalupe Cuenca in this city, after seeing a miniature portrait of her at a silversmith's house. Both Moreno and María were expected by their families to follow religious studies, and Moreno's father did not authorize a change. Moreno studied laws all the same and married María in secret to avoid family resistance. They had a single son, named Mariano like the father.\n\nWhen Moreno left for Europe on a diplomatic mission in 1811, his wife and son stayed in Buenos Aires. María wrote many letters to Moreno, with descriptions of ongoing events in the city. Most of them were written when Moreno was already dead; she did not learn of his fate until the following August when a letter arrived from Manuel Moreno. She requested a widow's pension from the First Triumvirate, which was in power by then; its value was thirty pesos.\n\nMariano Moreno studied French and Spanish authors of the Age of Enlightenment during his studies at Chuquisaca. Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"The Social Contract\" was the main influence; he translated this work into Spanish and used it to justify the actions of the Primera Junta. Contemporary people as Ignacio Núñez and Tomás de Anchorena acknowledged him as the translator. However, as the main page said that the work was \"reprinted in Buenos Ayres\", some historians doubt whether it was actually Moreno's work. Vicente Fidel López claimed that Moreno reprinted the translation made by the Spaniard Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos, but the two translations differ. Paul Groussac thought it was a reprint of an Asturian translation, and Ricardo Levene said that Moreno was not the translator, but neither gave any indication as to who they thought had completed it. Enrique de Gandía considers that the comments of contemporary people and the lack of an earlier similar translation of Rousseau's work allow us to conclude that Moreno must have been the translator, at least until an earlier translation is found.\n\nDespite his interest in French authors, Mariano Moreno was not Francophile or afrancesado. He kept a strong Spanish cultural heritage, and both Levene and Abelardo Ramos agree that his stay in Chuquisaca influenced him more than the books. In line with the Spanish Enlightenment, Moreno kept strong religious beliefs. He removed the chapter from Rousseau's work that is critical of religion, and never became a Freemason. He gave up his religious studies to study law and get married, but never actually became a priest, so there was no defrocking. He studied with priests such as Terrazas, who approved and perhaps even encouraged the change of vocation.\n\nThe canonical image of Mariano Moreno is the one from the portrait \"Mariano Moreno en su mesa de trabajo\" (). It was done by the Chilean artist Pedro Subercaseaux during the centennial of the May Revolution in 1910. The historian Adolfo Carranza asked him to design various allegorical pictures of the event. Carranza belonged to the mainstream line of historians who professed great admiration for Moreno, who he described as follows: \"He was the soul of the government of the revolution of May, his nerve, the distinguished statesman of the group managing the ship attacked the absolutism and doubt, anxious to reach the goal of his aspirations and his destiny. Moreno was the compass and that also grabbed the helm, as he was the strongest and the ablest of those who came to direct it\". He asked for a picture that was consistent with this image. The portrait depicts him as a friendly man with an open and round face, a wide forehead, and a serene look. Subsequent interpretations, like those of Antonio Estrada, would follow this style, as would portraits of other members of the Junta. However, as this portrait was made a hundred years after the death of the subject, with no known depictions done during his lifetime, it was thus based on the artist's imagination. It was known that Moreno had clearly visible smallpox scars from the age of eight, but not to the point where they disfigured his face.\n\nLater a portrait of Moreno was discovered that had been done from life, by the Peruvian silversmith Juan de Dios Rivera. This portrait was painted between 1808 or 1809, before Moreno's appointment as secretary of the Junta. It is now considered to be the closest representation of Moreno's real appearance. In this portrait, he is depicted with an elongated face, abundant hair, long sideburns, big eyes, and a pointy nose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15709901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15709901", "title": "Mary Clarke Nind", "text": "Mary Clarke Nind\n\nMary Clarke Nind (1825–1905), known as \"Our Little Bishop\", was a philanthropist and worker for social justice. It was during her time living in Minnesota that she fulfilled her calling into missionary work.\n\nMary Clarke was born in Essex, England, the daughter of Ebenezer and Louisa Clarke. \"I was born six miles from London, England, the child of pious parents, who led their six children to the Savior, converted before five years of age. The memory of my conversion is still fresh and delightful.\"\n\nShe was teaching in the Sabbath school by the age of 12 and at the age of 14 she was united with a Congregational Church. In 1850 she came to the United States, the bride of James G. Nind; and they established their home in St. Charles, Illinois. They had five children, losing one at the age of 3. Two of her daughters later became missionaries, one going to Foochow and the other to Madeira Islands.\n\nYet, in her spiritual life, Mary was tormented. She could see others much older than she was struggling to achieve a life of salvation. \"Must I go on to thirty, forty, fifty, sixty years, and still have to fight against my easily besetting sins, and every now and then be conquered? Is there no hope of victory all the time?\"\n\nIt was not until she was introduced to the Methodist movement that she began to move \"into the light.\" A pastor of her Congregational Church aligned with the Methodist movement and began to teach about sanctifying grace. When the pastor was dismissed from the Congregational Church, about 40 members moved to the Free Methodist Church. Mary occasionally went to the Methodist meetings and as a result was more than once disciplined and charged with \"schism\" – holding Methodist doctrines in a Congregational Church. Mary was tormented over her devotion to the Congregational Church and her desire to reach a \"higher life\" through sanctification. One day after church, she encountered a woman who had lived through many afflictions and Mary opened up to her about her torment. She replied, \"Mrs. Nind, we shall all miss you if you decide to leave the Congregational Church; but if I were you I would go into the Methodist Church. You will be more happy and more useful there, for there is more liberty for women to exercise their gifts.\" Taking this as a sign from God, she abruptly left the Congregational Church and joined the Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\n\"I raised a new Ebenezer of gratitude, 'for hitherto the Lord had helped me.' Anew I consecrated myself to the Lord and His service, and with new consecrations came new joy.\" Mary wrote the story of her spiritual struggle and final victory in a leaflet titled \"Into the Light.\" The leaflet was widely used during the Civil War as a source of inspiration.\n\nIn 1866, Mary and her husband moved to Winona, Minnesota. Her eagerness to \"win souls for Christ\" led her into evangelistic work. On April 4, 1870, the Western branch of the Woman's Foreign Missionary Society (WFMS) was formed; and Mary was the first to enlist for work. The WFMS is one of the forerunners of the United Methodist Women. In 18 years during the 1870s and 1880s, Mary raised $17.5 million for the WFMS on \"two cents and a prayer a day\" from the women of the Methodist Church.\n\nShe traveled the nation, China, Tibet, India, Japan, Africa, and South America bearing messages of salvation and became known worldwide as an evangelist. She also became known as \"Mother\" Nind in the WFMS. In Methodist circles, she was also known as \"Our Little Bishop.\" As a result of her missionary work, Mary is considered by some to be one of the top women of influence in the Methodist Church along with Susanna Wesley and Barbara Heck. \n\nIn 1878, her son moved to Minneapolis, and to be closer to him, Mary also moved. She became a member of Centenary M. E. Church. The leaders of the WFMS led by Mrs. Franc Elliott in Nebraska, set forth a cause to have women elected as representatives to the male-dominated General Conference and the Minnesota Lay Conference and five other conferences responded to the call. At the Minnesota Lay Conference of 1887, which met at Centenary Church, elected Mary as one of the representatives, even though she was not in attendance. She was one of five women nationally who presented credentials at the 1888 General Conference. The others were Frances E. Willard, Amanda C. Rippey, Angie F. Newman and Elizabeth D. Van Kirk. \n\nAfter the conference was assembled, a committee on eligibility was formed to consider the question. The committee reported to the General Conference and the matter was debated over the course of 5 days before the women were denied their seats. Mary observed the entire proceedings from the balcony. It would not be until 1904 that women were given laity rights and admitted as delegates to the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church (1922 for the M.E. Church, South).\n\nAt the close of the General Conference, discouraged, Mary went to London and attended the World's Missionary Conference. After that she traveled around the world, visiting the chief mission stations. When she returned she moved to Detroit in about 1891 or 1892. It's not clear that she ever saw the completion of Wesley Church before moving.\n\nIn September 1905, she traveled to Massachusetts where she had a son living in Boston. On September 1, 1905, \"Mother\" Nind was at a missionary day celebration in Northampton, Massachusetts. There she was afforded a place of honor. She conducted the opening services with a Bible reading on the resurrection of Jesus and offered a prayer \"of marvelous beauty and devotion, which seemed to our informant to indicate 'a wonderful spirituality and nearness of approach to God.'\" The next day she was visiting friends in Littleton, Massachusetts. Mary retired for the evening in an upper bedroom of the home. Shortly after, a fire started in the house, which rapidly filled with smoke. Mary died just a few Months from her 80th birthday.\n\nWesley UMC - Mary Clarke Nind at www.thewesleychurch.org\n\nHistory of Wesley Church, The First 125 Years, Wesley United Methodist Church, 1977 and\nMary Clarke Nind and Her Work, by Her Children, \npublished 1906 in Chicago for the Woman's Foreign Missionary Society by J. Newton Nind.\nand the Wesley Archives.\nAlso, thanks to Thelma Boeder of the Minnesota Annual Conference\n"}
{"id": "12391653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12391653", "title": "Middle cerebral artery syndrome", "text": "Middle cerebral artery syndrome\n\nMiddle cerebral artery syndrome is a condition whereby the blood supply from the middle cerebral artery (MCA) is restricted, leading to a reduction of the function of the portions of the brain supplied by that vessel: the lateral aspects of frontal, temporal and parietal lobes, the corona radiata, globus pallidus, caudate and putamen. The MCA is the most common site for the occurrence of ischemic stroke.\n\nDepending upon the location and severity of the occlusion, signs and symptoms may vary within the population affected with MCA syndrome. More distal blockages tend to produce milder deficits due to more extensive branching of the artery and less ischemic response. In contrast, the most proximal occlusions result in widespread effects that can lead to significant cerebral edema, increased intracranial pressure, loss of consciousness and could even be fatal. In such occasions, mannitol (osmotic diuretic) or hypertonic saline are given to draw fluid out of the edematous cerebrum to minimise secondary injury. Hypertonic saline is better than mannitol, as mannitol being a diuretic will decrease the mean arterial pressure and since cerebral perfusion is mean arterial pressure minus intracranial pressure, mannitol will also cause a decrease in cerebral perfusion.\n\nContralateral hemiparesis and hemisensory loss of the face, upper and lower extremities is the most common presentation of MCA syndrome. Lower extremity function is more spared than that of the faciobrachial region. The majority of the primary motor and somatosensory cortices are supplied by the MCA and the cortical homunculus can, therefore, be used to localize the defects more precisely. Middle cerebral artery lesions mostly affect the dominant hemisphere i.e. the left cerebral hemisphere.\n\nNote: *faciobrachial deficits greater than that of the lower limb\nDiagnosis can be confirmed by CT Scan or MRI for advanced investigations.\n"}
{"id": "19965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19965", "title": "Morphogenesis", "text": "Morphogenesis\n\nMorphogenesis (from the Greek \"morphê\" shape and \"genesis\" creation, literally, \"beginning of the shape\") is the biological process that causes an organism to develop its shape. It is one of three fundamental aspects of developmental biology along with the control of cell growth and cellular differentiation, unified in evolutionary developmental biology (evo-devo).\n\nThe process controls the organized spatial distribution of cells during the embryonic development of an organism. Morphogenesis can take place also in a mature organism, in cell culture or inside tumor cell masses. Morphogenesis also describes the development of unicellular life forms that do not have an embryonic stage in their life cycle, or describes the evolution of a body structure within a taxonomic group.\n\nMorphogenetic responses may be induced in organisms by hormones, by environmental chemicals ranging from substances produced by other organisms to toxic chemicals or radionuclides released as pollutants, and other plants, or by mechanical stresses induced by spatial patterning of the cells.\n\nSome of the earliest ideas and mathematical descriptions on how physical processes and constraints affect biological growth, and hence natural patterns such as the spirals of phyllotaxis, were written by D'Arcy Wentworth Thompson in his 1917 book \"On Growth and Form\" and Alan Turing in his \"The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis\" (1952). Where Thompson explained animal body shapes as being created by varying rates of growth in different directions, for instance to create the spiral shell of a snail, Turing correctly predicted a mechanism of morphogenesis, the diffusion of two different chemical signals, one activating and one deactivating growth, to set up patterns of development, decades before the formation of such patterns was observed. The fuller understanding of the mechanisms involved in actual organisms required the discovery of the structure of DNA in 1953, and the development of molecular biology and biochemistry.\n\nSeveral types of molecules are important in morphogenesis. Morphogens are soluble molecules that can diffuse and carry signals that control cell differentiation via concentration gradients. Morphogens typically act through binding to specific protein receptors. An important class of molecules involved in morphogenesis are transcription factor proteins that determine the fate of cells by interacting with DNA. These can be coded for by master regulatory genes, and either activate or deactivate the transcription of other genes; in turn, these secondary gene products can regulate the expression of still other genes in a regulatory cascade of gene regulatory networks. At the end of this cascade are classes of molecules that control cellular behaviors such as cell migration, or, more generally, their properties, such as cell adhesion or cell contractility. For example, during gastrulation, clumps of stem cells switch off their cell-to-cell adhesion, become migratory, and take up new positions within an embryo where they again activate specific cell adhesion proteins and form new tissues and organs. Developmental signaling pathways implicated in morphogenesis include Wnt, Hedgehog, and ephrins.\n\nAt a tissue level, ignoring the means of control, morphogenesis arises because of cellular proliferation and motility. Morphogenesis also involves changes in the cellular structure or how cells interact in tissues. These changes can result in tissue elongation, thinning, folding, invasion or separation of one tissue into distinct layers. The latter case is often referred as cell sorting. Cell \"sorting out\" consists of cells moving so as to sort into clusters that maximize contact between cells of the same type. The ability of cells to do this has been proposed to arise from differential cell adhesion by Malcolm Steinberg through his Differential Adhesion Hypothesis. Tissue separation can also occur via more dramatic cellular differentiation events during which epithelial cells become mesenchymal (see Epithelial-mesenchymal transition). Mesenchymal cells typically leave the epithelial tissue as a consequence of changes in cell adhesive and contractile properties. Following epithelial-mesenchymal transition, cells can migrate away from an epithelium and then associate with other similar cells in a new location.\n\nDuring embryonic development, cells are restricted to different layers due to differential affinities. One of the ways this can occur is when cells share the same cell-to-cell adhesion molecules. For instance, homotypic cell adhesion can maintain boundaries between groups of cells that have different adhesion molecules. Furthermore, cells can sort based upon differences in adhesion between the cells, so even two populations of cells with different levels of the same adhesion molecule can sort out. In cell culture cells that have the strongest adhesion move to the center of a mixed aggregates of cells. Moreover, cell-cell adhesion is often modulated by cell contractility, which can exert forces on the cell-cell contacts so that two cell populations with equal levels of the same adhesion molecule can sort out. The molecules responsible for adhesion are called cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). Several types of cell adhesion molecules are known and one major class of these molecules are cadherins. There are dozens of different cadherins that are expressed on different cell types. Cadherins bind to other cadherins in a like-to-like manner: E-cadherin (found on many epithelial cells) binds preferentially to other E-cadherin molecules. Mesenchymal cells usually express other cadherin types such as N-cadherin.\n\nThe extracellular matrix (ECM) is involved in keeping tissues separated, providing structural support or providing a structure for cells to migrate on. Collagen, laminin, and fibronectin are major ECM molecules that are secreted and assembled into sheets, fibers, and gels. Multisubunit transmembrane receptors called integrins are used to bind to the ECM. Integrins bind extracellularly to fibronectin, laminin, or other ECM components, and intracellularly to microfilament-binding proteins α-actinin and talin to link the cytoskeleton with the outside. Integrins also serve as receptors to trigger signal transduction cascades when binding to the ECM. A well-studied example of morphogenesis that involves ECM is mammary gland ductal branching.\n\nTissues can change their shape and separate into distinct layers via cell contractility. Just as in muscle cells, myosin can contract different parts of the cytoplasm to change its shape or structure. Myosin-driven contractility in embryonic tissue morphogenesis is seen during the separation of germ layers in the model organisms \"Caenorhabditis elegans\", \"Drosophila\" and zebrafish. There are often periodic pulses of contraction in embryonic morphogenesis. A model called the cell state splitter involves alternating cell contraction and expansion, initiated by a bistable organelle at the apical end of each cell. The organelle consists of microtubules and microfilaments in mechanical opposition. It responds to local mechanical perturbations caused by morphogenetic movements. These then trigger traveling embryonic differentiation waves of contraction or expansion over presumptive tissues that determine cell type and is followed by cell differentiation. The cell state splitter was first proposed to explain neural plate morphogenesis during gastrulation of the axolotl and the model was later generalized to all of morphogenesis.\n\nCancer can result from disruption of normal morphogenesis, including both tumor formation and tumor metastasis. Mitochondrial dysfunction can result in increased cancer risk due to disturbed morphogen signaling.\n\na. Thompson's book is often cited. An abridged version, comprising 349 pages, remains in print and readily obtainable.\nAn unabridged version, comprising 1116 pages, has also been published.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11101049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11101049", "title": "Obstetrical forceps", "text": "Obstetrical forceps\n\nObstetrical Forceps is an instrument that can be used to assist in the delivery of a baby as an alternative to the ventouse (vacuum extraction) method.\n\nForceps births, like all assisted births, are only undertaken to help promote the health of the mother and/or baby. In general, although caveats such as operator skill apply, a forceps birth is likely to be safer for both the mother and baby than the alternatives - either a ventouse birth or a caesarean section.\n\nAdvantages of forceps use include avoidance of caesarean section (and the short and long-term complications that accompany this), reduction of delivery time, and general applicability with cephalic presentation. Commonly occurring complications include the possibility of bruising the baby and causing more severe tears than would otherwise be the case (although it is important to recognize that almost all women will sustain some form of tear when delivering their first baby). Severe and rare complications (occurring less frequently than 1 in 200) include nerve damage, Descemet's membrane rupture (extraordinarily rare), skull fractures, and cervical cord injury.\n\n\n\n\nObstetric forceps consist of two branches (blades) that are positioned around the head of the fetus. These branches are defined as left and right depending on which side of the mother's pelvis they will be applied. The branches usually, but not always, cross at a midpoint which is called the articulation. Most forceps have a locking mechanism at the articulation, but a few have a sliding mechanism instead, allowing the two branches to slide along each other. Forceps with a fixed lock mechanism are used for deliveries where little or no rotation is required, as when the fetal head is in line with the mother's pelvis. Forceps with a sliding lock mechanism is used for deliveries requiring more rotation.\n\nThe blade of each forceps branch is the curved portion that is used to grasp the fetal head. The forceps should surround the fetal head firmly, but not tightly. The blade characteristically has two curves, the cephalic and the pelvic curves. The cephalic curve is shaped to conform to the fetal head. The cephalic curve can be rounded or rather elongated depending on the shape of the fetal head. The pelvic curve is shaped to conform to the birth canal and helps direct the force of the traction under the pubic bone. Forceps used for rotation of the fetal head should have almost no pelvic curve.\n\nThe handles are connected to the blades by shanks of variable lengths. Forceps with longer shanks are used if rotation is being considered.\n\nAll American forceps are derived from French forceps (long forceps) or English forceps (short forceps).\nShort forceps are applied on the fetal head already descended significantly in the maternal pelvis (i.e., proximal to the vagina). Long forceps are able to reach a fetal head still in the middle or even in the upper part of the maternal pelvis.\nAt present practice, it is uncommon to use forceps to access a fetal head in the upper pelvis. So, short forceps are preferred in the UK and USA. Long forceps are still in use elsewhere.\n\nSimpson forceps (1848) are the most commonly used among the types of forceps and has an elongated cephalic curve. These are used when there is substantial molding, that is, temporary elongation of the fetal head as it moves through the birth canal.\n\nElliot forceps (1860) are similar to Simpson forceps but with an adjustable pin in the end of the handles which can be drawn out as a means of regulating the lateral pressure on the handles when the instrument is positioned for use. They are used most often with women who have had at least one previous vaginal delivery because the muscles and ligaments of the birth canal provide less resistance during second and subsequent deliveries. In these cases the fetal head may thus remain rounder.\n\nKielland forceps (1915, Norwegian) are distinguished by having no angle between the shanks and the blades and a sliding lock. The pelvic curve of the blades is identical to all other forceps. The common misperception that there is no pelvic curve has become so entrenched in the obstetric literature that it may never be able to be overcome, but it can be proved by holding a blade of Kielland's against any other forceps of one's choice. Kielland forceps are probably the most common forceps used for rotation. The sliding mechanism at the articulation can be helpful in asynclitic births (when the fetal head is tilted to the side) since the fetal head is no longer in line with the birth canal. Because the handles, shanks, and blades are all in the same plane the forceps can be applied in any position to affect rotation. Because the shanks and handles are not angled, the forceps cannot be applied to a high station as readily as those with the angle since the shanks impinge on the perineum.\n\nWrigley's forceps are used in \"low\" or \"outlet deliveries\" (see explanations below), when the maximum diameter is about 2.5 cm above the vulva. Wrigley's forceps were designed for use by general practitioner obstetricians, having the safety feature of an inability to reach high into the pelvis. Obstetricians now use these forceps most commonly in cesarean section delivery where manual traction is proving difficult. The short length results in a lower chance of uterine rupture.\n\nPiper's forceps has a perineal curve to allow application to the after-coming head in breech delivery.\n\nThe cervix must be fully dilated and retracted and the membranes ruptured. The urinary bladder should be empty, perhaps with the use of a catheter. High forceps are never indicated in the modern era. Mid forceps can occasionally be indicated but require operator skill and caution. The station of the head must be at the level of the ischial spines. The woman is placed on her back, usually with the aid of stirrups or assistants to support her legs. A regional anaesthetic (usually either a spinal, epidural or pudendal block) is used to help the mother stay comfortable during the birth. Ascertaining the precise position of the fetal head is paramount, and though historically was accomplished by feeling the fetal skull suture lines and fontanelles, in the modern era, confirmation with ultrasound is essentially mandatory. At this point, the two blades of the forceps are individually inserted, the left blade first for the commonest occipito-anterior position; posterior blade first if a transverse position, then locked. The position on the baby's head is checked. The fetal head is then rotated to the occiput anterior position if it is not already in that position. An episiotomy may be performed if necessary. The baby is then delivered with gentle (maximum 30 lb or 130 Newton) traction in the axis of the pelvis.\n\nThe accepted clinical standard classification system for forceps deliveries according to station and rotation was developed by ACOG and consists of:\n\n\nThe obstetric forceps were invented by the eldest son of the Chamberlen family of surgeons. The Chamberlens were French Huguenots from Normandy origin but working in Paris before they migrated to England in 1569 to escape from the religious violence in France. William Chamberlen, the patriarch of the family, was most likely a surgeon; he had two sons, both named Pierre, who became maverick surgeons and specialists in midwifery. William and the eldest son practiced in Southampton and then settled in London. The inventor was probably the eldest Peter Chamberlen the elder, who became obstetrician-surgeon of Queen Henriette, wife of King Charles I of England and daughter of Henry IV, King of France.\nHe was succeeded by his nephew, Dr. Peter Chamberlen (barbers-surgeons were not Doctors in the sense of physician), as royal obstetrician. The success of this dynasty of obstetricians with the Royal family and high nobles was related in part to the use of this \"secret\" instrument allowing delivery of a live child in difficult cases.\nIn fact, the instrument was kept secret for 150 years by the Chamberlen family, although there is evidence for its presence as far back as 1634. Hugh Chamberlen the elder, grandnephew of Peter the eldest, tried to sell the instrument in Paris in 1670, but the demonstration he did in front of François Mauriceau, responsible for Paris Hotel-Dieu maternity, was a failure which resulted in the death of mother and child. The secret may have been sold by Hugh Chamberlen to Dutch obstetricians at the start of the 18th century in Amsterdam, but there are doubts about the authenticity of what was actually provided to buyers.\n\nThe forceps were used most notably in difficult childbirths. The forceps could avoid some infant deaths when previous approaches (involving hooks and other instruments) extracted them in parts. In the interest of secrecy, the forceps were carried into the birthing room in a lined box and would only be used once everyone was out of the room and the mother blindfolded.\n\nModels derived from the Chamberlen instrument finally appeared gradually in England and Scotland in 1735. About 100 years after the invention of the forceps by Peter Chamberlen Sr. a surgeon by the name of Jean Palfyn presented his obstetric forceps to the Paris Academy of Sciences in 1723. They contained parallel blades and were called the Hands of Palfyn.\n\nThese \"hands\" were possibly the instruments described and used in Paris by Gregoire father and son, Dussée, and Jacques Mesnard. \n\nIn 1813, Peter Chamberlen’s midwifery tools were discovered at Woodham Mortimer Hall near Maldon (UK). In the attic of the house, the instruments were found along with gloves, old coins and trinkets. The tools discovered also contained a pair of forceps that were presumably invented by the father of Peter Chamberlen, assumed so because of the nature of the design.\n\nThe Chamberlen family's forceps were based on the idea of separating the two branches of \"sugar clamp\" (as those used to remove \"stones\" from bladder), which were put in place one after another in the birth canal. This was not possible with conventional tweezers previously tested. However, they could only succeed in maternal pelvis of normal dimensions and on fetal heads already well engaged (i.e. well lowered into maternal pelvis). Abnormalities of pelvis were much more common in the past than today, which complicated the use of Chamberlen forceps. The absence of pelvic curvature of the branches (vertical curvature to accommodate the anatomical curvature of maternal sacrum) prohibited blades from reaching upper-part of the pelvis and exercising traction in the natural axis of pelvic excavation.\n\nIn 1747, French obstetrician Andre Levret, published \"Observations sur les causes et accidents de plusieurs accouchements laborieux\" (Observations on the Causes and Accidents of Several difficult Deliveries), in which he described his modification of the instrument to follow the \"curvature\" of the maternal pelvis, this \"pelvic curve\" allowing a grip on a fetal head \"still high\" in the pelvic excavation, which could assist in more difficult cases.\n\nThis improvement was published in 1751 in England by William Smellie in the book \"A Treatise on the theory and practice of midwifery\". After this fundamental improvement, the forceps would become a common obstetrical instrument for more than two centuries.\n\nThe last improvement of the instrument was added in 1877 by a French obstetrician, Stephan Tarnier in \"descriptions of two new forceps.\" This instrument featured a \"traction system\" misaligned with the instrument itself, sometimes called the \"third curvature of the forceps\". This particularly ingenious traction system, allowed the forceps to exercise traction on the head of the child following \"the axis of the maternal pelvic excavation\", which had never been possible before.\n\nTarnier's idea was to \"split\" mechanically the grabbing of the fetal head (between the forceps blades) on which the operator does not intervene after their correct positioning, from a mechanical accessory set on the forceps itself, the \"tractor\" on which the operator exercises traction needed to pull down the fetal head in the correct axis of the pelvic excavation. Tarnier forceps (and its multiple derivatives under other names) remained the most widely used system in the world until the development of the cesarean section.\n\nForceps had a profound influence on obstetrics as it allowed for the speedy delivery of the baby in cases of difficult or obstructed labor. Over the course of the 19th Century, many practitioners attempted to redesign the forceps, so much so that the Royal College of Obstetrics and Gynecologists' collection has several hundred examples. In the last decades, however, with the ability to perform a cesarean section relatively safely, and the introduction of the ventouse or vacuum extractor, the use of forceps and training in the technique of its use has sharply declined.\n\nThe introduction of the obstetrical forceps provided huge advances in the medicalization of childbirth. Before the eighteenth century, childbirth was thought of as a medical phase that could be overseen by a female relative. Usually if a doctor had to get involved that means that something had gone wrong. Around this era, (eighteenth century) there were no female doctors. Since males were only exclusively called in for extreme circumstance, the act of childbirth was thought to better known to a midwife or female relative rather than that of a male doctor. Usually the male doctor’s job was to save the mother’s life if, for example, the baby had gotten stuck on his or her way exiting the mother. Before the obstetrical forceps, this had to be done by cutting the baby out piece by piece. In other cases, if the baby was deemed undeliverable, then the doctor would use an item called a crochet. This was used to crush the baby’s skull and then pull it out of the mother’s womb. Still in other cases, a caesarean section (c section) could be performed, but this would almost all the time result in the mother’s death. \"In addition, women who had forceps deliveries had shorter after childbirth complications than those who had caesarean sections performed.\" These procedures came with various risks to the mother’s health along with the death of the baby. However, with the introduction of the obstetrical forceps the male doctor had a more important role. In many cases, they could actually save the baby’s life if called early enough. Although the use of the forceps in childbirth came with its own set of risks, the positives included a significant decrease in risk to the mother, a decrease in child morbidity, and a decrease risk to the baby. The forceps gave male doctors a way to deliver babies. Since the forceps in childbirth were made public around 1720, they gave male doctors a way to assist and even oversee childbirths. Around this time, in large cities some notable being London and Paris, some men would become devoted to obstetrical practices. It became stylish among wealthy women of the era to have their childbirth overseen by man midwives. A notable man midwife was William Hunter. He popularized obstetrics. \"In 1762, he was appointed as obstetrician to Queen Charlotte.\" In addition, with the use of forceps, male doctors invented lying in hospitals to provide safe, somewhat advanced obstetrical care because of the use of the obstetrical forceps.\n\nChild birth was not considered a medical practice before the eighteenth century. It was mostly overseen by a midwife, mother, stepmother, neighbor, or any female relative. \"Around the 19th and 20th Century, childbirth was considered dangerous for women.\" With the introduction of obstetrical forceps, this allowed non medical professionals, such as the aforementioned individuals, to continue to oversee childbirths. In addition, this gave some of the public more comfort in trusting childbirth oversight to common people. However, the introduction of obstetrical forceps also had a negative effect, because there was no medical oversight of childbirth by a medical professional, of some sort, this exposed the practice to unnecessary risks and complications for the fetus and mother. These risks could range from minimal effects to lifetime consequences for both individuals. The baby could develop cuts and bruises in various body parts due to the forcible squeezing of his or her body through the mother’s vagina. In addition, there could be bruising on the baby’s face if the handler of the forceps were to squeeze too tight. In some extreme cases, this could cause temporary or permanent facial nerve injury. Furthermore, if the handler of the forceps were to twist his or her wrist while the grip was on the baby’s head, this would twist the baby’s neck and cause damage to a cranial nerve, resulting in strabismus. In rare cases, a clavicle fracture to the baby could occur. The addition of obstetrical forceps came with complication to the mother during and after childbirth. The use of the forceps gave rise to an increased risk in cuts and lacerations along the vaginal wall. This, in turn, would cause an increase post operation recovery time and increase pain experienced by the mother. In addition, the use of forceps would cause more difficulty evacuating during the recovery time as compared to another mother who did not use the forceps. While some of these risks and complications were very common, in general, many people overlooked them and continued to use them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26798011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26798011", "title": "OpenVibe", "text": "OpenVibe\n\nOpenViBE is a software platform dedicated to designing, testing and using brain-computer interfaces. The package includes a Designer tool to create and run custom applications, along with several pre-configured and demo programs which are ready for use.\n\nOpenViBE is software for real-time neuroscience (that is, for real-time processing of brain signals). It can be used to acquire, filter, process, classify and visualize brain signals in real time.\n\nThe main OpenViBE application fields are medical (assistance to disabled people, real-time biofeedback, neurofeedback, real-time diagnosis), multimedia (virtual reality, video games), robotics and all other application fields related to brain-computer interfaces and real-time neurosciences.\n\nOpenViBE users can either be programmers or people not familiar with programming. This includes medical doctors, video game developers, researchers in signal processing or robotics, etc.\n\nSince 2012, the start-up Mensia Technologies has developed an advanced version of the software called NeuroRT Suite.\n\nThe user interface of OpenVibe is easy to use for creating BCI scenarios and saving them for later use, to access and to manipulate.\nOpenVibe is the first library of functions written in C++ of this type developed by INRIA - Institut national de recherche en informatique et automatique (France) - it can be integrated and applied quickly and easily .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1427244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1427244", "title": "Otis Bowen", "text": "Otis Bowen\n\nOtis Ray Bowen (February 26, 1918 – May 4, 2013) was an American politician and physician who served as the 44th Governor of Indiana from 1973 to 1981 and as Secretary of Health and Human Services from 1985 to 1989.\n\nBowen was born near Rochester, Indiana, to Vernie Bowen and Pearl Irene Wright. His father's side of the family was deeply religious and originally came from Ohio. Vernie graduated from Valparaiso University and was a teacher for 43 years. Vernie also owned a hardware store in Leiters Ford, was a trustee for Aubbeenaubbee Township, President of the Woodlawn Hospital Board of Trustees, and President of the Leiters Ford Merchants Association. His father was a Scottish Rite Freemason and a member of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows. In 1915, Vernie married Pearl Irene Wright, whose family was also from Ohio and involved with the Independent Order of Odd Fellows. Otis Bowen is a distant relative of George H. W. Bush through two brothers who immigrated to New England from Somerset, England.\n\nDr. Bowen received his elementary and high school education from local schools and went on to graduate from Indiana University Bloomington with an A.B. in 1939 and the Indiana University School of Medicine with an M.D. in 1942. At IU, he became a member of the Delta Chi Fraternity as well as the Phi Beta Pi Medical Fraternity. He holds 30 honorary degrees including those from schools in his home state such as Indiana University, the University of Notre Dame, Ball State University, Valparaiso University, and Anderson University. In addition to an honorary degree, Bethel College also named their campus library in his honor.\n\nHe married Elizabeth Anne Steinmann in 1939, who died shortly before his term as Indiana Governor expired in 1981. They had four children; Rick, Judy, Tim, and Rob. Following her death, he married Rose May Hochstetler in September 1981. In 1991, Rose died. In 1992, he married Carol Hahn, a marriage that lasted until his death.\n\nBowen began his career on an internship from Memorial Hospital in South Bend, Indiana, in 1942. From 1943 to 1946 he served in the Medical Corps of the United States Army, rising from the rank of 1st lieutenant to captain. On his return from World War II, he set up his own medical practice in his home town of Bremen, Indiana, which he discontinued in 1972. During this time, he also was a member of staff for various hospitals in Indiana and served as coroner for Marshall County, Indiana. In 1981 he took up the post of clinical professor of family medicine at Indiana University.\n\nDuring his medical and teaching career, Bowen also got into Republican Party politics, serving as a member of the Indiana House of Representatives from 1956 to 1958 and again from 1960 to 1972. He was speaker of the house from 1967 to 1972, Vice Chairman of the legislative council from 1967 to 1968, and Chairman until 1972. After his unsuccessful attempt in 1968, he was elected Governor of Indiana in 1972 and was re-elected for a second term in 1976, making him the first Governor to serve for eight consecutive years in Indiana since 1851. His campaign slogan, featured in huge letters on billboards, was \"Otis Bowen. He Hears You\". His tenure in Indiana's highest public office was marked by a major tax restructuring reducing reliance on property taxes, major improvements to state park facilities, development of a statewide emergency medical services system, and adoption of a medical malpractice law that was destined to become a national model. From 1978 to 1985, he also served on the board of trustees for Valparaiso University. Simultaneously, Bowen served as chairman of the Republican Governors Association, and the Midwestern Governors Association, and the National Governors Association. In 1980, he served as President of the Council of State Governments.\n\nBowen continued teaching at Indiana University until he was appointed by President Reagan as Secretary of Health and Human Services and confirmed by the US Senate on a vote of 93 to 2, making him the first medical doctor to serve in this position.\n\nAt the time of his appointment, criticism was rising that the Reagan Administration was not doing enough to respond to AIDS. Although not as prominent in his advocacy for AIDS issues as then-Surgeon General C. Everett Koop, Bowen did offer explicit warnings about the threats posed by the disease, including its risk to heterosexuals. By 1987, he warned that the threat posed by AIDS could rival deadly health disasters like the Black Death, smallpox, and typhoid if more was not done to combat the threat posed by the disease. The following year, after new studies were released showing that the spread of the disease was slowing within many population groups, he commented that \"We do not expect any explosion into the heterosexual population.\"\n\nIt is said that as Secretary he always had a prescription pad handy, recommending remedies to treat minor ailments for both colleagues and members of the press. He served this position until 1989, when he retired to his home in Bremen, Indiana.\n\nBowen served on a number of committees and conferences, including the Education Commission of the States, and the President's Commission on Federalism. He was the chairman of the Paperwork Commission, Nursing Study Commission, and Medicare Study Commission. He has also received various awards, including the George F. Hixson award from Kiwanis International. Bowen is a Lutheran and member of the American Medical Association, the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Alpha Omega Alpha, Phi Beta Pi, Delta Chi, and Kiwanis.\n\nThe Bowen Center for Public Affairs was founded by Ball State University in honor of Bowen. He attended every year and provided a congratulatory address to the graduates of this two-day seminar.\n\nThe Otis R. Bowen Museum, located on the campus of Bethel College, houses memorabilia and artifacts related to Dr. Otis Bowen's years as Governor of Indiana and Secretary of Health and Human Services. It also houses a copy of the Otis Bowen (bust).\n\nBowen died May 4, 2013, at a nursing home in Donaldson, Indiana. He was 95.\n\n\n\n\"This article contains content from Hierarchypedia article Otis R. Bowen, used here under the GNU Free Documentation License.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "275509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275509", "title": "Palliative care", "text": "Palliative care\n\nPalliative care is a multidisciplinary approach to specialized medical and nursing care for people with life-limiting illnesses. It focuses on providing relief from the symptoms, pain, physical stress, and mental stress at any stage of illness. The goal is to improve quality of life for both the person and their family. Evidence as of 2016 supports palliative care's efficacy in the improvement of a patient's quality of life.\n\nPalliative care is provided by a team of physicians, nurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, speech-language pathologists and other health professionals who work together with the primary care physician and referred specialists and other hospital or hospice staff to provide additional support. It is appropriate at any age and at any stage in a serious illness and can be provided as the main goal of care or along with curative treatment. Although it is an important part of end-of-life care, it is not limited to that stage. Palliative care can be provided across multiple settings including in hospitals, at home, as part of community palliative care programs, and in skilled nursing facilities. Interdisciplinary palliative care teams work with people and their families to clarify goals of care and provide symptom management, psycho-social, and spiritual support.\n\nPhysicians sometimes use the term \"palliative care\" in a sense meaning palliative therapies without curative intent, when no cure can be expected (as often happens in late-stage cancers). For example, tumor debulking can continue to reduce pain from mass effect even when it is no longer curative. A clearer usage is \"palliative, noncurative therapy\" when that is what is meant, because palliative care can be used along with curative or aggressive therapies.\n\nMedications and treatments are said to have a palliative effect if they relieve symptoms without having a curative effect on the underlying disease or cause. This can include treating nausea related to chemotherapy or something as simple as morphine to treat the pain of broken leg or ibuprofen to treat pain related to an influenza infection.\n\nPalliative care is given to people who have any serious illness and who have physical, psychological, social, or spiritual distress as a result of the treatment they are seeking or receiving. Palliative care increases comfort by lessening pain, controlling symptoms, and lessening stress for the patient and family, and should not be delayed when it is indicated. Evidence shows that end-of-life communication interventions decrease utilization (such as length of stay), particularly in the intensive care unit setting, and that palliative care interventions (mostly in the outpatient setting) are effective for improving patient and caregiver perceptions of care.\n\nPalliative care is not reserved for people in end-of-life care and can improve quality of life, decrease depressive symptoms, and increase survival time. If palliative care is indicated for a person in an emergency department, then that care should begin in the emergency department immediately and with referral to additional palliative care services. Emergency care physicians often are the first medical professionals to open the discussion about palliative care and hospice services with people needing care and their families.\n\nIn some cases, medical specialty professional organizations recommend that sick people and physicians respond to an illness only with palliative care and not with a therapy directed at the disease. The following items are indications named by the American Society of Clinical Oncology as characteristics of a person who should receive palliative care but not any cancer-directed therapy.\n\nThese characteristics may be generally applicable to other disease conditions besides cancer.\n\nPalliative care is a term derived from Latin \"palliare,\" \"to cloak.\" It refers to specialised medical care for people with serious illnesses. It is focused on providing people with relief from the symptoms, pain and stress of a serious illness — whatever the prognosis. The goal is to improve quality of life for both the sick person and the family as they are the central system for care.\n\nA World Health Organization statement describes palliative care as \"an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families facing the problems associated with life-threatening illness, through the prevention and relief of suffering by means of early identification and impeccable assessment and treatment of pain and other problems, physical, psychosocial and spiritual.\" More generally, however, the term \"palliative care\" may refer to any care that alleviates symptoms, whether or not there is hope of a cure by other means; thus, palliative treatments may be used to alleviate the side effects of curative treatments, such as relieving the nausea associated with chemotherapy.\n\nThe term \"palliative care\" is increasingly used with regard to diseases other than cancer such as chronic, progressive pulmonary disorders, renal disease, chronic heart failure, HIV/AIDS and progressive neurological conditions. In addition, the rapidly growing field of pediatric palliative care has clearly shown the need for services geared specifically for children with serious illness.\n\nWhile palliative care may seem to offer a broad range of services, the goals of palliative treatment are concrete: relief from suffering, treatment of pain and other distressing symptoms, psychological and spiritual care, a support system to help the individual live as actively as possible and a support system to sustain and rehabilitate the individual's family.\n\nStarting in 2006 in the United States, palliative medicine is now a board certified sub-speciality of internal medicine with specialised fellowships for physicians who are interested in the field.\n\nIn the United States, a distinction should be made between palliative care and hospice care. Hospice services and palliative care programs share similar goals of providing symptom relief and pain management. Palliative care services can be appropriate for anyone with a serious, complex illness, whether they are expected to recover fully, to live with chronic illness for an extended time, or to experience disease progression.\n\nHospice care focuses on five topics: communication, collaboration, compassionate caring, comfort, and cultural (spiritual) care. The end of life treatment in hospice differs from that in hospitals because the medical and support staff are specialized in treating only the terminally ill. This specialization allows for the staff to handle the legal and ethical matters surrounding death more thoroughly and efficiently with survivors of the patient. Hospice comfort care also differentiates because patients are admitted to continue managing discomfort relief treatments while the terminally ill receiving comfort care in a hospital are admitted because end-of-life symptoms are poorly controlled or because current outpatient symptom relief efforts are ineffective.\n\nHospice is a type of care involving palliation without curative intent. Usually, it is used for people with no further options for curing their disease or in people who have decided not to pursue further options that are arduous, likely to cause more symptoms, and not likely to succeed. Hospice care under the Medicare Hospice Benefit requires that two physicians certify that a person has less than six months to live if the disease follows its usual course. This does not mean, though, that if a person is still living after six months in hospice he or she will be discharged from the service.\n\nThe philosophy and multi-disciplinary team approach are similar with hospice and palliative care, and indeed the training programs and many organizations provide both. The biggest difference between hospice and palliative care is the type of illness people have, where they are in their illness especially related to prognosis, and their goals/wishes regarding curative treatment.\n\nOutside the United States there is generally no such division of terminology or funding, and all such care with a primarily palliative focus, whether or not for people with a terminal illness, is usually referred to as palliative care.\n\nOutside the United States the term hospice usually refers to a building or institution which specializes in palliative care, rather than to a particular stage of care progression. Such institutions may predominantly specialize in providing care in an end-of-life setting; but they may also be available for people with other specific palliative care needs.\n\nDespite the fact that many individuals are now dying either at home or in a care facility, as of 2010, 29% of all deaths in the United States occurred in a hospital setting, these statistics increased in 2016 to about 60% of all deaths occurred in the hospital which is a substantial increase from 2010. which is still a rather substantial percentage. Comfort care can require meticulous techniques to alleviate distress caused by severe health troubles near the end of life. Doctors, nurses, nurses aides, social workers, chaplains, and other hospital support staff work systematically together to carry out end of life care and comfort in the hospital setting. Hospitals are able to accommodate the demand for acute medical attention as well as education and supportive therapies for the families of their loved ones. Within hospital settings, there is an increasing shortage of board-certified palliative care specialists. This shortage results in the responsibility of comfort care falling on the shoulders of other individuals.\n\nComfort care in hospitals differs from comfort care in hospices because patients’ end-of-life symptoms are poorly controlled prior to checking in. The average time between death and the admission of a terminally ill patient is 7.9 days. Patients receiving end of life care in a hospice setting typically have a longer time between their admission and death; 60% of hospice patients passed within approximately 30 days of being admitted. The average length of stay at a hospice house from admission to death is about 48 hours.\n\nA method for the assessment of symptoms in people admitted to palliative care is the \"Edmonton Symptoms Assessment Scale\" (ESAS), in which there are eight visual analog scales (VAS) of 0 to 10, indicating the levels of pain, activity, nausea, depression, anxiety, drowsiness, appetite and sensation of well-being, sometimes with the addition of shortness of breath. On the scales, 0 means that the symptom is absent and 10 that it is of worst possible severity. It is completed either by the person in need of care alone, by the person with a nurse's assistance, or by the nurses or relatives.\n\nMedications used in palliative care are used differently from standard medications, based on established practices with varying degrees of evidence. Examples include the use of antipsychotic medications to treat nausea, anticonvulsants to treat pain, and morphine to treat dyspnea. Routes of administration may differ from acute or chronic care, as many people in palliative care lose the ability to swallow. A common alternative route of administration is subcutaneous, as it is less traumatic and less difficult to maintain than intravenous medications. Other routes of administration include sublingual, intramuscular and transdermal. Medications are often managed at home by family or nursing support.\n\nPalliative care interventions in care homes may contribute to lower discomfort for residents with dementia, and to improve family member's views of the quality of care. However, higher quality research is needed to support the benefits of these interventions for older people dying in these facilities.\n\nFor many, knowing that the end of life is approaching induces various forms of emotional and psychological distress. The key to effective palliative care is to provide a safe way for the individual to address their distresses, that is to say their \"total suffering\", a concept first thought up by Cicely Saunders, and now widely used, for instance by authors like Twycross or Woodruff. Dealing with total suffering involves a broad range of concerns, starting with treating physical symptoms such as pain, nausea and breathlessness with various medications. Usually, the sick person's concerns are pain, fears about the future, loss of independence, worries about their family and feeling like a burden. The interdisciplinary team also often includes a licensed mental health professional, a licensed social worker, or a counselor, as well as spiritual support such as a chaplain, who can play roles in helping people and their families cope. There are five principal methods for addressing patient anxiety in palliative care settings. They are counseling, visualisation, cognitive methods, drug therapy and relaxation therapy. Palliative pets can play a role in this last category.\n\nTo take care of a patient’s pain that is at the End of Life, one has to understand that it is of the utmost importance to take care of the Total Body Pain. This Total Body Pain is the sum of all of the physical, psychosocial, and spiritual pain they can be enduring at this stressful time. When someone is at the end of their life and they are seeking comfort care, the majority of the time they are in excruciating pain. This pain can be a physical manifestation to where their body is beginning to fight back on itself causing a multitude of physical symptoms. The pain can be in a psychosocial manifestation and can be dealt with by the medical team having open communication about how to cope with and prepare for death. The last aspect of pain that is included in Total Body Pain is the spiritual pain manifestation; if patients spiritual needs are met, then studies show that they will be more likely to get hospice care. Addressing the needs of the Total Body Pain can lead to a better quality of life overall for the patients.\n\nThe Physical pain can be managed in a way that uses adequate pain medications as long as they will not put the patient at further risk for developing or increasing medical diagnoses such as heart problems or difficulty breathing. Patients at the end of life can exhibit many physical symptoms that can cause extreme pain such as dyspnea (or difficulty breathing), Coughing, Xerostomia (Dry Mouth), Nausea and Vomiting, Constipation, Fever, Delirium, Excessive Oral and Pharyngeal Secretions (“Death Rattle”) and many more painful symptoms can be seen that they are hoping to get some pain relief from.\n\nOnce the immediate physical pain has been dealt with, it is important to remember to be a compassionate and empathetic caregiver that is there to listen and be there for their patients. Being able to identify the distressing factors in their life other than the pain can help them be more comfortable. When a patient has their needs met then they are more likely to be open to the idea of hospice or treatments outside of comfort care. Having a Psychosocial assessment allows the medical team to help facilitate a healthy patient-family understanding of adjustment, coping and support. This communication between the medical team and the patients and family can also help facilitate discussions on the process of maintaining and enhancing relationships, finding meaning in the dying process, and achieving a sense of control while confronting and preparing for death.\n\nWhen a patient is at the end of life, one of the most important things that a lot of them want to talk to their physicians about is their spirituality. Regardless of this desire, less than 50% of physicians believe that it is their job to address these religious concerns, and only a minority of patients have been recorded to have had their spiritual needs met. Most of the time these patients are referred to Chaplain services if they are available or they rely on the medical staff available and any family and friends that may be there as well. Chaplain services are one of the best services available for meeting this spiritual need. That being said, there are not enough Chaplains available at any one time and the majority of them are not qualified to be giving services to Comfort Care patients whom often have the most serious illnesses. According to a multiple site cohort study involving 343 advanced cancer patients, it was found that those who had their religious needs met were more likely than those who didn’t have their religious needs met to go through with more hospice care and to not get unnecessary treatments at the end of life, as well as the study showed that they ended up having higher quality of life scores than those who did not have their spiritual needs met.\n\nPalliative care for children and young people is an active and total approach to care, from the point of diagnosis, throughout the child’s life, death and beyond. It embraces physical, emotional, social and spiritual elements and focuses on the enhancement of quality of life for the child or young person, and support for the whole family. It includes the management of distressing symptoms, provision of short breaks, end of life care and bereavement support.\n\nPalliative care can be introduced at any point throughout a child’s life; it is completely individual. Some children may require palliative care from birth, others only as their condition deteriorates. Families may also vary as to whether they wish to pursue treatments aimed to cure or significantly prolong life. In practice, palliative care should be offered from diagnosis of a life-limiting condition or recognition that curative treatment for a life-threatening condition is not an option; however, each situation is different and care should be tailored to the child.\n\n\nThere are an estimated 49,000 children and young people in the UK living with a life-threatening or life-limiting condition that may require palliative care services. A 2015 survey from the Royal College of Nursing (RCN) found that nearly a third of children's nurses said they don't have the resources to deliver adequate care in the home setting.\n\nAustralia and New Zealand\n\nThe Paediatric Palliative Care Australia and New Zealand Corporation (PPCANZ) in conjuction with Palliative Care Australia suppports a 'Paediatric Palliative Care' website which provides practical information about paediatric palliative care to families who have a child with a life-limiting illness, as well as information about the people who support them. There is however very little empirical research regarding the support provided to children in palliative care. To help address the lack of research, the Palliative Care Unit at La Trobe University, Melbourne, Australia, is currently conducting an international modified delphi study to provide 'Recommendations for Speech-Language Pathologist (SLPs) in Paediatric Palliative Care Teams' (\"abbrev\". RESPCT). This study will conclude in 2020/2021 and hopefully provide greater information with regard to the collaborative role of SLPs assisting children, families and clinical staff regarding appropriate and multidisciplinary palliative care. \n\nPalliative care began in the hospice movement and is now widely used outside of traditional hospice care. Hospices were originally places of rest for travellers in the 4th century. In the 19th century a religious order established hospices for the dying in Ireland and London. The modern hospice is a relatively recent concept that originated and gained momentum in the United Kingdom after the founding of St. Christopher's Hospice in 1967. It was founded by Dame Cicely Saunders, widely regarded as the founder of the modern hospice movement. Dame Cicely Saunders, went to St.Thomas’ Hospital in 1944 to become a nurse. After working with the terminally ill she went and became a doctor in 1957 so that she could start her own hospice. Dr. Cicely Saunders then opened her own hospice after she saw all of the terminally ill patients that she nursed in excruciating pain because their pain was not being managed like it should have been. \n\nIn the UK in 2005 there were just under 1,700 hospice services consisting of 220 inpatient units for adults with 3,156 beds, 33 inpatient units for children with 255 beds, 358 home care services, 104 hospice at home services, 263 day care services and 293 hospital teams. These services together helped over 250,000 people in 2003 and 2004.\n\nHospice in the United States has grown from a volunteer-led movement to a significant part of the health care system. In 2005 around 1.2 million persons and their families received hospice care. Hospice is the only Medicare benefit that includes pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, twenty-four-hour/seven-day-a-week access to care and support for loved ones following a death. Most hospice care is delivered at home. Hospice care is also available to people in home-like hospice residences, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, veterans' facilities, hospitals, and prisons.\n\nThe first United States hospital-based palliative care consult service was developed by the Wayne State University School of Medicine in 1985 at Detroit Receiving Hospital. The first palliative medicine program in the United States was started in 1987 by Declan Walsh, MD at the Cleveland Clinic Cancer Center in Cleveland, Ohio. This is a comprehensive integrated program, responsible for several notable innovations in US palliative medicine; the first clinical and research fellowship (1991), acute care palliative medicine inpatient unit (1994), and Chair in Palliative Medicine (1994). The program evolved into The Harry R. Horvitz Center for Palliative Medicine which was designated as a World Health Organization international demonstration project and accredited by the European Society for Medical Oncology as an Integrated Center of Oncology and Palliative Care. Other programs followed: most notable the Palliative Care Program at the Medical College of Wisconsin (1993); Pain and Palliative Care Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (1996); and The Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, Mount Sinai School of Medicine (1997). Since then there has been a dramatic increase in hospital-based palliative care programs, now numbering more than 1,400. Eighty percent of US hospitals with more than 300 beds have a program.\n\nA widely cited report in 2007 of a randomized controlled trial with 298 patients found that palliative care delivered to patients and their caregivers at home improved satisfaction with care while decreasing medical service use and the cost of care.\n\nA 2009 study regarding the availability of palliative care in 120 US cancer center hospitals reported the following: only 23% of the centers have beds that are dedicated to palliative care; 37% offer inpatient hospice; 75% have a median time of referral to palliative care to the time of death of 30 to 120 days; research programs, palliative care fellowships, and mandatory rotations for oncology fellows were uncommon.\n\nThe results of a 2010 study in \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" showed that people with lung cancer who received early palliative care in addition to standard oncologic care experienced less depression, increased quality of life and survived 2.7 months longer than those receiving standard oncologic care.\n\nIn 2011, The Joint Commission (an independent, not-for-profit organization that accredits and certifies thousands of health care organizations and programs in the United States) began an Advanced Certification Program for Palliative Care that recognizes hospital inpatient programs. In order to obtain this certification, a hospital must show superior care and enhancement of the quality of life for people with serious illness.\n\nThe first pan-European center devoted to improving palliative care and end-of-life care was established in Trondheim, Norway in 2009. The center is based at NTNU's Faculty of Medicine and at St. Olav's Hospital/Trondheim University Hospital and coordinates efforts between groups and individual researchers across Europe, specifically Scotland, England, Italy, Denmark, Germany and Switzerland, along with the United States, Canada and Australia.\n\nFamilies of persons who get a referral to palliative care during a hospitalization incur less costs than people with similar conditions who do not get a palliative care referral.\n\nFunding for hospice and palliative care services varies. In Great Britain and many other countries all palliative care is offered free, either through the \"National Health Service\" (as in the UK) or through charities working in partnership with the local health services. Palliative care services in the US are paid by philanthropy, fee-for service mechanisms, or from direct hospital support while hospice care is provided as Medicare benefit; similar hospice benefits are offered by Medicaid and most private health insurers. Under the Medicare Hospice Benefit (MHB) a person signs off their Medicare Part B (acute hospital payment) and enrols in the MHB through Medicare Part B with direct care provided by a Medicare certified hospice agency. Under terms of the MHB the Hospice agency is responsible for the Plan of Care and may not bill the person for services. The hospice agency, together with the person's primary physician, is responsible for determining the Plan of Care. All costs related to the terminal illness are paid from a per diem rate (~US $126/day) that the hospice agency receives from Medicare – this includes all drugs and equipment, nursing, social service, chaplain visits and other services deemed appropriate by the hospice agency; Medicare does not pay for custodial care. People may elect to withdraw from the MHB and return to Medicare Part A and later re-enrol in hospice.\n\nIn most countries hospice care and palliative care is provided by an interdisciplinary team consisting of physicians, pharmacists, registered nurses, nursing assistants, social workers, hospice chaplains, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, complementary therapists, volunteers, and, most importantly, the family. The team's focus is to optimize the person's comfort. In some countries, additional members of the team may include certified nursing assistants and home healthcare aides, as well as volunteers from the community (largely untrained but some being skilled medical personnel), and housekeepers. In the United States, the physician subspeciality of hospice and palliative medicine was established in 2006 to provide expertise in the care of people with life-limiting, advanced disease, and catastrophic injury; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary care in diverse settings; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end-of-life care.\n\nCaregivers, both family and volunteers, are crucial to the palliative care system. Caregivers and people being treated often form lasting friendships over the course of care. As a consequence caregivers may find themselves under severe emotional and physical strain. Opportunities for caregiver respite are some of the services hospices provide to promote caregiver well-being. Respite may last a few hours up to several days (the latter being done by placing the primary person being cared for in a nursing home or inpatient hospice unit for several days).\n\nIn the US, board certification for physicians in palliative care was through the American Board of Hospice and Palliative Medicine; recently this was changed to be done through any of 11 different speciality boards through an American Board of Medical Specialties-approved procedure. Additionally, board certification is available to osteopathic physicians (D.O.) in the United States through four medical speciality boards through an American Osteopathic Association Bureau of Osteopathic Specialists-approved procedure. More than 50 fellowship programs provide one to two years of speciality training following a primary residency. In Britain palliative care has been a full speciality of medicine since 1989 and training is governed by the same regulations through the Royal College of Physicians as with any other medical speciality. Nurses, in the United States and internationally, can receive continuing education credits through Palliative Care specific trainings, such as those offered by End-of-Life Nursing Education Consortium (ELNEC) \n\nIn India Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai has started a physician course in palliative medicine for the first time in the country since 2012.\n\nIn the United States, hospice and palliative care represent two different aspects of care with similar philosophy, but with different payment systems and location of services. Palliative care services are most often provided in acute care hospitals organized around an interdisciplinary consultation service, with or without an acute inpatient palliative care unit. Palliative care may also be provided in the dying person's home as a \"bridge\" program between traditional US home care services and hospice care or provided in long-term care facilities. In contrast over 80% of hospice care in the US is provided at home with the remainder provided to people in long-term care facilities or in free standing hospice residential facilities. In the UK hospice is seen as one part of the speciality of palliative care and no differentiation is made between 'hospice' and 'palliative care'.\n\nIn the UK palliative care services offer inpatient care, home care, day care and outpatient services, and work in close partnership with mainstream services. Hospices often house a full range of services and professionals for children and adults. In 2015 the UK's palliative care was ranked as the best in the world \"due to comprehensive national policies, the extensive integration of palliative care into the \"National Health Service\", a strong hospice movement, and deep community engagement on the issue.\"\n\nThe focus on a person's quality of life has increased greatly since the 1990s. In the United States today, 55% of hospitals with more than 100 beds offer a palliative-care program, and nearly one-fifth of community hospitals have palliative-care programs. A relatively recent development is the palliative-care team, a dedicated health care team that is entirely geared toward palliative treatment.\n\nPhysicians practicing palliative care do not always receive support from the people they are treating, family members, healthcare professionals or their social peers. More than half of physicians in one survey reported that they have had at least one experience where a patient's family members, another physician or another health care professional had characterised their work as being \"euthanasia, murder or killing\" during the last five years. A quarter of them had received similar comments from their own friends or family member, or from a patient.\n\n"}
{"id": "43699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43699", "title": "Peter Minuit", "text": "Peter Minuit\n\nPeter Minuit, Pieter Minuit, Pierre Minuit, or Peter Minnewit (between 1580 and 1585 – August 5, 1638) was a Walloon from Wesel, in present-day North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany, then part of the Duchy of Cleves. His surname means \"midnight\" in French. He was the 4th Director of the Dutch North American colony of New Netherland from 1626 until 1631, and 3rd Governor of New Netherland. He founded the Swedish colony of New Sweden on the Delaware Peninsula in 1638.\n\nMinuit is generally credited with orchestrating the purchase of Manhattan Island for the Dutch from the Lenape Native Americans. Manhattan later became the site of the Dutch city of New Amsterdam, and the borough of Manhattan of modern-day New York City. A common account states that Minuit purchased Manhattan for $24 worth of trinkets. A letter written by Dutch merchant Peter Schaghen to directors of the Dutch East India Company stated that Manhattan was purchased \"for the value of 60 guilders\" in goods, an amount worth approximately $1,050 in 2015 dollars.\n\nPeter Minuit was born sometime between 1580 and 1585, into a Calvinist family that had moved from the city of Tournai (presently part of Wallonia, Belgium) in the Southern Netherlands, to Wesel in Germany, in order to avoid Spanish Catholic colonials, who were not favorably disposed toward Protestants.\n\nHis father, Johan, died in 1609 and Peter took over management of the household and his father's business. Peter had a good reputation in Wesel, attested by the fact that he was several times appointed a guardian. He also assisted the poor during the Spanish occupation of 1614–1619.\n\nMinuit married Gertrude Raedts on August 20, 1613. Gertrude was from a wealthy family and she probably helped Peter Minuit establish himself as a broker. A will drawn up in 1615 in the Dutch city of Utrecht, mentions \"Peter Minnewit\" as a diamond cutter. Whether he traded in other items is unknown.\n\nBy 1624, the city was in an economic decline and in 1625, he had left Wesel and like others, went to Holland. At first, Gertrude went to stay with her relatives in Cleve.\n\nMinuit and his family joined the Dutch West India Company, probably in the mid-1620s, and was sent to New Netherland in 1625 to search for tradable goods other than the animal pelts that then were the major product coming from New Netherland. He returned in the same year, and in 1626 was appointed the new director of New Netherland, taking over from Willem Verhulst. He sailed to North America and arrived in the colony on May 4, 1626. \n\nMinuit is credited with purchasing the island of Manhattan from the Native Americans in exchange for traded goods valued at 60 guilders. According to the writer Nathaniel Benchley, Minuit conducted the transaction with Seyseys, chief of the Canarsees, who were only too happy to accept valuable merchandise in exchange for an island that was mostly controlled by the Weckquaesgeeks.\n\nThe figure of 60 guilders comes from a letter by a representative of the Dutch States-General and member of the board of the Dutch West India Company, Pieter Janszoon Schagen, to the States-General in November 1626. In 1846, New York historian John Romeyn Brodhead converted the figure of Fl 60 (or 60 guilders) to US$23. The popular account rounds this off to $24. By 2006 sixty guilders in 1626 was worth approximately $1,000 in current dollars, according to the Institute for Social History of Amsterdam.\n\nAccording to researchers at the National Library of the Netherlands, \"The original inhabitants of the area were unfamiliar with the European notions and definitions of ownership rights. For the Indians, water, air and land could not be traded. Such exchanges would also be difficult in practical terms because many groups migrated between their summer and winter quarters. It can be concluded that both parties probably went home with totally different interpretations of the sales agreement.\"\n\nA contemporary purchase of rights in nearby Staten Island, to which Minuit also was party, involved duffel cloth, iron kettles, axe heads, hoes, wampum, drilling awls, \"Jew's harps\", and \"diverse other wares\". \"If similar trade goods were involved in the Manhattan arrangement\", Burrows and Wallace surmise, \"then the Dutch were engaged in high-end technology transfer, handing over equipment of enormous usefulness in tasks ranging from clearing land to drilling wampum.\"\n\nMinuit conducted politics in a measure of democracy in the colony during his time in New Netherland. He was highest judge in the colony, but in both civil and criminal affairs he was assisted by a council of five colonists. This advisory body would advise the director and jointly with him would develop, administer, and adjudicate a body of laws to help govern the colony. In addition there was a schout-fiscal, half-sheriff, half-attorney-general, and the customs officer. During Minuit's administration, several mills were built, trade grew exponentially, and the population grew to almost 300.\n\nIn 1631, the Dutch West India Company (WIC) suspended Minuit from his post for reasons that are unclear, but probably for (perhaps unintentionally) abetting the landowning patroons who were engaging in illegal fur trade and otherwise enriching themselves against the interests and orders of the West India Company. He arrived back in Europe in August 1632 to explain his actions, but was dismissed and was succeeded as director by Wouter van Twiller. It is possible that Minuit had become the victim of the internal disputes over the rights that the board of directors had given to the patroons.\n\nAfter having lived in Cleves, Germany for several years, Minuit made arrangements with Samuel Blommaert and the Swedish government in 1636 or 1637 to create the first Swedish colony in the New World. Located on the lower Delaware River within territory earlier claimed by the Dutch, it was called New Sweden. Minuit and his company arrived on the \"Fogel Grip\" and \"Kalmar Nyckel\" at Swedes' Landing (now Wilmington, Delaware), in the spring of 1638. They constructed Fort Christina later that year, then returned to Stockholm for a second load of colonists, and made a side trip to the Caribbean on the return to pick up a shipment of tobacco for resale in Europe to make the voyage profitable. During this voyage, Minuit drowned when the ship he was visiting (at the invitation of its Dutch captain, a friend of Minuit), \"The Flying Deer\", was lost with all hands during a hurricane at St. Christopher (today's St. Kitts) in the Caribbean. The losses suffered, such as goods, colonists, and Minuit, caused irreversible damage to Sweden's colonization attempts. Two years later, Swedish Lt. Måns Nilsson Kling, whose rank was raised to captain, replaced him as governor. Nine expeditions to the colony were carried out before the Dutch captured it in 1655.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20910041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20910041", "title": "Predator X (TV program)", "text": "Predator X (TV program)\n\nPredator X is a 2009 television special on the cable television channel History. The show documents the excavation of a giant pliosaur on an island in the Norwegian Svalbard archipelago. The special follows Dr. Jørn Hurum and a team of paleontologists from the University of Oslo as they excavate the site.\n\nThe specimen — claimed by Hurum at the time to be a new species — had not received a taxonomic classification by the time of the television special and was, therefore, codenamed \"Predator X\". The team initially called their discovery \"The Monster\", and the nickname has been used extensively by the media.\n\nThe initial discovery was made in 2006, as part of a find of dozens of pliosaur and plesiosaur specimens. At nearly 15 m (49 ft) in length, \"The Monster\" is the largest pliosaur skeleton ever discovered, considerably larger than \"Kronosaurus\".\n\nIn 2012, it was given the taxonomic name \"Pliosaurus funkei\".\n"}
{"id": "9372692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9372692", "title": "Promethians", "text": "Promethians\n\nThe Promethians are a fictional race of aliens featured in the \"Rifts\" role-playing game from Palladium Books. They reside in an intergalactic region of space known as the Three Galaxies, which is located in an extradimensional universe. Promethians first appeared in \"Rifts Dimension Book Two: Phase World\", authored by C. J. Carella and published December 1994.\n\nThe Promethians are the natives of a planet called Phase World, and are the undisputed masters and administrators of the transdimensional city of Center, a super-metropolis that stands thousands of feet high and covers many tens of miles in land area. The Promethians allow only the Draconid and Phantom races to co-exist outside of this massive arcology; the rest of the populace is not allowed to roam any part of Phase World's surface outside of Center – which holds over 600 million inhabitants from species throughout the Palladium Megaverse. \n\nFor reasons unknown, the Promethians do very little to restrict activities within Center itself; absolutely anything is allowed within the arcology, including but not limited to mass starvation, slavery, murder, and cannibalism. The only time that the Promethians show any interest in the goings-on of Center is when an enemy force tries to take control of the transdimensional spacegates and rifts, or when a conquering force attempts to take over Phase World altogether. On one occasion, the Promethians allowed a civil war to be waged for two years within Center's confines, killing over thirty million of its inhabitants; the Promethians' only course of action was to selectively apply a series of force fields to keep the fighting from reaching the spaceports or from breaking out of Center and spilling out onto the planet's surface. Furthermore, the Promethians are well known for selling their technology to any buyer that can afford it, friend or foe, and in similar fashion neither help nor hinder fugitives that manage to reach Center – or any bounty hunters and law enforcement agents that may be pursuing them.\n\nIt is strongly implied that the Promethians are concerned first and foremost about cosmic-level threats to the entire Megaverse, such as the effort to keep the Old Ones from waking, and that \"little things\" like world-spanning wars and \"morality\" are simply too much of a distraction from the importance of their universal mission.\n\nPromethians are a notable species in that they are always in a constant state of partial phase – unlike most characters in contemporary literature with the ability to phase – which serves to greatly reduce any damage dealt to them. Furthermore, by using the natural phase powers innate to their species, they can at times opt to completely phase themselves, eliminating any threat to their person by phasing out of sync with the dimension that they're in. This allows them to choose whether to walk through solid matter or to render themselves completely invisible and undetectable by all means, including magic.\n\nThe Promethians exist in two forms: namely, first- and second-stage Promethians. First-stage Promethians are to tall, are entirely \"human\" in the range of possible outlooks and alignments, and the natural phase abilities of their bodies renders any force or energies directed against them to cause no more than a point-for-point conversion to \"Standard Damage Capacity\" (termed S.D.C. in the Palladium game setting), no matter how powerful the originating force.\n\nThose Promethians that manage to survive and pass the Test of Maturity are transformed into larger, more durable versions of their old selves that range from to in height. These creatures are immune to S.D.C. weapons; they each gain up to 2,400 points of what is termed \"Mega Damage Capacity\" (M.D.C.), and all attacks directed at them inflict only one-quarter damage, no matter how powerful the originating force. Second-stage Promethians make up the majority of the Promethians on the planet outside Center (actually, second-stage Promethians are found nowhere else in the Megaverse \"except\" on Phase World), and it is they who are the ones tasked with the universal mission of identifying and countering the greatest threats to the Megaverse. Second-stagers are also the ones who are possessed of \"an alien way of thinking\" and do not live by morals as most other sentient beings understand them; they are prepared to do whatever it takes to safeguard the Megaverse, even if their actions appear \"evil\" to outside observers. \n"}
{"id": "34140752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34140752", "title": "Queen Janggyeong", "text": "Queen Janggyeong\n\nQueen Janggyeong or Queen Jang-Kyung (10 August 1491 – 16 March 1515) was the wife and Queen Consort of King Jungjong of Joseon, the 11th monarch of the Joseon Dynasty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47841352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47841352", "title": "Rosenkammaren", "text": "Rosenkammaren\n\nRosenkammaren (literally: 'The Rose Chamber') was a torture chamber in the prison \"Nya smedjegården\" in Stockholm.\n\nIt consisted of a long room, flooded with knee deep water from a spring. The prisoners sentenced to be tortured were chained by a hook from the ceiling in the knee deep water, which was normally icy cold.\n\nOn 27 September 1772, torture was abolished by Gustav III of Sweden, and the Rose Chamber, along with the other torture chamber in the capital, \"Tjuvakällaren\" in the Town Hall (active 1471-1772), was closed and its equipment destroyed.\n\n"}
{"id": "43658678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43658678", "title": "SUPS", "text": "SUPS\n\nIn computational neuroscience, SUPS (for Synaptic Updates Per Second) or formerly CUPS (Connections Updates Per Second) is a measure of a neuronal network performance, useful in fields of neuroscience, cognitive science, artificial intelligence, and computer science.\n\nFor a processor or computer designed to simulate a neural network SUPS is measured as the product of simulated neurons formula_1 and average connectivity formula_2(synapses) per neuron per second:\n\nformula_3\n\nDepending on the type of simulation it is usual equal to the total number of synapses simulated.\n\nIn an \"asynchronous\" dynamic simulation if a neuron spikes at formula_4 Hz, the average rate of synaptic updates provoked by the activity of that neuron is formula_5. In a synchronous simulation with step formula_6 the number of synaptic updates per second would be formula_7. As formula_6 has to be chosen much smaller than the average interval between two successive afferent spikes, which implies formula_9, giving an average of synaptic updates equal to formula_10. Therefore, spike-driven synaptic dynamics leads to a linear scaling of computational complexity O(N) per neuron, compared with the O(N) in the \"synchronous\" case.\n\nDeveloped in the 1980s Adaptive Solutions' CNAPS-1064 Digital Parallel Processor chip is a full neural network (NNW). It was designed as a coprocessor to a host and has 64 sub-processors arranged in a 1D array and operating in a SIMD mode. Each sub-processor can emulate one or more neurons and multiple chips can be grouped together. At 25 MHz it is capable of 1.28 GMAC.\n\nAfter the presentation of the RN-100 (12 MHz) single neuron chip at Seattle 1991 Ricoh developed the multi-neuron chip RN-200. It had 16 neurons and 16 synapses per neuron. The chip has on-chip learning ability using a proprietary backdrop algorithm. It came in a 257-pin PGA encapsulation and drew 3.0 W at a maximum. It was capable of 3 GCPS (1 GCPS at 32 MHz).\nIn 1991-97, Siemens developed the MA-16 chip, SYNAPSE-1 and SYNAPSE-3 Neurocomputer. The MA-16 was a fast matrix-matrix multiplier that can be combined to form systolic arrays. It could process 4 patterns of 16 elements each (16-bit), with 16 neuron values (16-bit) at a rate of 800 MMAC or 400 MCPS at 50 MHz. The SYNAPSE3-PC PCI card contained 2 MA-16 with a peak performance of 2560 MOPS (1.28 GMAC); 7160 MOPS (3.58 GMAC) when using three boards.\n\nIn 2013, the K computer was used to simulate a neural network of 1.73 billion neurons with a total of 10.4 trillion synapses (1% of the human brain). The simulation ran for 40 minutes to simulate 1 s of brain activity at a normal activity level (4.4 on average). The simulation required 1 Petabyte of storage.\n\n"}
{"id": "12439461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12439461", "title": "Suicide of Vince Foster", "text": "Suicide of Vince Foster\n\nDeputy White House counsel Vincent W. Foster was found dead in Fort Marcy Park off the George Washington Parkway in Virginia, outside Washington, D.C., on July 20, 1993. His death was ruled a suicide by five official investigations, but remains a subject of conspiracy theories.\n\nPark Police discovered Foster, dead from an apparently self-inflicted gun shot wound to the head, in Fort Marcy Park off the George Washington Parkway in Virginia, on July 20, 1993. Foster was holding a gun in his hand. An autopsy and subsequent investigation later confirmed that Foster had committed suicide by shooting himself once in the mouth with the .38 caliber revolver found at the scene.\n\nSubsequent investigations found that Foster was distraught over accusations and criticisms related to the White House Travel Office controversy. Foster had confided to friends and colleagues that he was considering resignation, but feared that he could not handle the \"personal humiliation\" of returning to Arkansas in defeat. Foster admitted to his sister that he was depressed shortly before his death, and he sought treatment for depression one day before committing suicide.\n\nAlthough police found no evidence of foul play, several tabloids and right-leaning newsletters speculated that Foster's death may have been a homicide, possibly involving the Clintons themselves. Subsequent investigations by special prosecutor Robert Fiske and the Senate Banking Committee concluded that there was no evidence of a homicide. A final investigation, led by special prosecutor Kenneth Starr, also concluded that there was no evidence to support the claim that Foster was murdered. Starr's report addressed several additional questions about physical and forensic evidence that had previously fueled speculation about the case. The report established that Foster owned the handgun used in the suicide, and confirmed that the body had not been moved from its position prior to its discovery by police. The report concluded \"In sum, based on all of the available evidence, which is considerable, the OIC [Office of Independent Counsel] agrees with the conclusion reached by every official entity that has examined the issue: Mr. Foster committed suicide by gunshot in Fort Marcy Park on July 20, 1993.\"\n\nThe suicide has nevertheless continued to fuel speculation: then-presidential candidate Donald Trump made news in 2016 when he remarked in an interview with the \"Washington Post\" that Foster's death was \"very fishy\", and added \"I will say there are people who continue to bring it up because they think it was absolutely a murder. I don't do that because I don't think it's fair.\"\n\nA draft of a resignation letter, was found torn into 27 pieces in a briefcase after his death. The full text of the letter is as follows:\n\nAssociate White House counsel, Steve Neuwirth, discovered the torn pieces of the note in Foster's briefcase on July 26. After receiving the note from Neuwirth, White House Counsel Bernard Nussbaum handled the note various times before giving it to Park Police Lieutenant Joseph Megby the following evening.\n\nThe United States Department of Justice revealed the note's contents at a joint press conference with the Park Police on August 10. The DoJ stated that a smudged palm print was on the note, but no fingerprints; they confirmed the handwriting as Foster's.\n\nIndependent Counsel Robert Ray's report regarding the Whitewater controversy stated the FBI Laboratory performed a 1995 fingerprint examination of the note and identified Nussbaum's palm print on it. The report stated that three separate handwriting analyses of the note by the Capitol Police and the FBI determined that the handwriting on the note was Foster's.\n\nOn May 2, 1999, the \"Washington Post\" published new details on the pursuit of a Foster conspiracy in an article by David Brock, a key figure in the Troopergate and Whitewater scandals whose disillusionment with the political corruption motivating what would come to be known as the Arkansas Project ended his lifelong commitment to the Conservative movement and facilitated public dissemination of insider details on G.O.P. machinations. The article explains how Brock was \"summoned\" to a meeting with Rex Armistead in Miami, Florida at an airport hotel. Brock claims that Armistead laid out for him an elaborate \"Vince Foster murder scenario\" – a scenario that he found implausible.\n\nVeteran crime reporter Dan Moldea wrote a book titled \"A Washington Tragedy: How the Death of Vincent Foster Ignited a Political Firestorm\". Moldea was approached in 1997 by Regnery Publishing House, a famously conservative group whose leadership was nevertheless impressed by Moldea's published works, including an exhaustive critique of LAPD Detective Mark Fuhrman, another Regnery author.\n\nIn researching the debacle created by and surrounding Foster's death, Moldea found that the most oft-used conspiracy scenario could be traced back to Park Police Major Robert Hines, who shared the idea with Reed Irvine (Accuracy in Media) and Christopher Ruddy (\"New York Post\"). Moldea concludes, and Maj. Hines publicly maintains, that Hines incorrectly told Irvine and Ruddy \"... that there is no exit wound in Foster's head ... I don't think there was anything nefarious here; he was being approached by reporters and he wanted something to say.\" Still, the \"missing\" exit wound claim continued to surface.\n\nMoldea's research sought, among other things, to discover the origins of this line of investigation into the Clintons' credibility. In an interview for \"Salon.com\", he suggests that \"Foster had some blond hair and carpet fibers on his suit jacket, and he had semen in his underwear. So, the Jerry Falwells and the right-wing crowd get a hold of this information, and…they start making movies alleging that the Clintons were involved in this murder.\"\n\nIn 1994, Falwell subsidized the creation of a film called \"The Clinton Chronicles\" that featured Ruddy's claims that the gun that killed Foster was placed in his hand after the fact, and that Foster's body was laid out to give the appearance of suicide, among others. Funding for the film was provided by \"Citizens for Honest Government\", an organization to which Falwell gave $200,000 in 1994 and 1995.\n\nCitizens for Honest Government covertly paid individuals who had provided information to media outlets such as the \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial page and the \"American Spectator\" magazine;\" and in 1995, made discretionary payments to two Arkansas state troopers who had spoken out in support of the idea of a conspiracy surrounding Foster's death. The two troopers, Roger Perry and Larry Patterson, had also previously given testimony supporting Paula Jones' claims of sexual misconduct and misuse of government resources against Bill Clinton (see Troopergate).\n\nPatrick Matrisciana, president of Citizens for Honest Government, produced \"The Clinton Chronicles\" video and appeared in its commercials as an \"investigative reporter\" where he and Rev. Falwell engaged in the following exchange:\n\"Falwell:\" Could you please tell me and the American people why you think that your life and the lives of the others on this video are in danger? \"Matrisciana:\" Jerry, two weeks ago we had an interview with a man who was an insider; his plane crashed and he was killed an hour before the interview. You may say this is just a coincidence, but there was another fellow that we were also going to interview, and he was killed in a plane crash. Jerry, are these coincidences? I don't think so. \n\nWhen asked about the spot, Matrisciana admitted he was not a reporter and replied \"I doubt our lives were actually ever in any real danger. That was Jerry's idea to do that ... He thought that would be dramatic.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5463771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5463771", "title": "Theoretical neuromorphology", "text": "Theoretical neuromorphology\n\nTheoretical neuromorphology is the science of using morphology to mathematically describe the shape and the connectivity in the nervous system.\n\nThe rational study of shapes as been long to form. In the major progresses made during the last century, it is important to differentiate morphogenesis (the way forms are made) and morphology (realized forms).\n\nImportant conceptual changes about forms came from d'Arcy Thompson’s essay (1917) dealing with forms in nature. These were not considered as static but as the result of morphogenetic factors. Not knowable in its intimate nature, form is defined as the simple result of forces. Thom (1974), founder of the \"catastrophe theory\" acknowledged what he owed to this work. A series of various branches of non-linear mathematics catastrophe theory, the fractal theory, the theory of \"dissipative structures\", the chaos theory have led to what Boutot (1993) called \"the morphologic revolution\", which has deeply modified the conception of forms in space. Theoretical neuromorphology discards morphogenesis (the way forms have been made) to limit its purpose to realised forms.\n\nIn spite of some results, space and shapes were often not considered as susceptible of bringing information on the nervous system functioning. Neuromorphology yet had been intensively studied after the discovery of the Golgi method allowing to see entire neurons. This gave rise to an abundant literature, with descriptions and figures. This allowed Ramon y Cajal (1911) to found definitely the \"neuron theory\" (the brain is constituted of separate cells that communicate together) and to formulate the law of \"dynamic polarization\" (axonalwards). With others, he pointed out the variety of patterns of neurons depending on particular cerebral places and already emitted hypotheses on the roles that could be played by particular forms. Several attempts have been made later. One step has been the work of Mannen (1960) on closed and open nuclei reinsisting on dendritic morphology. This was followed by several papers of Ramon-Moliner defining types of neurons according to their dendritic arborisations.\n\nAn approach of natural forms was proposed by Stevens (1974) who tried to rationally make classification of forms and to find their specific properties and advantages in terms of directness or economy of ways. Since almost one century, an important corpus of theoretical tools, still poorly exploited, has revealed to be very helpful for the understanding of the nervous system. These tools, generally, may be classified as «logical » or more narrowly as « logico-mathematical ». As will be seen, the most useful for the theoretical neuromorphology, along with geometry for metrical parameters, are the set theory, the system theory, the graph theory.\n\nThe classic traditional forms were emanating from and could be described by using Euclidean geometry for instance in relation to the cartesian triedre (one perpendicular axe for three \"dimensions\"). These forms can have material realisations (cubes, balls..). Many natural objects however cannot be satisfactorily described using the Euclidean geometry. Many of them are for instance fractals (Mandelbrot,1983 ), because they are branched, have holes, or are too anfractuous, etc.. In their case the three dimensions are no more linked linearly. This is particularly true for surfaces and volumes. As already stressed by Stevens (1974) some morphological pattern may offer precise advantages. An example can be given from two extremes where the surface of objects is fundamental. The surface is the place where objects exchange between an inside and an outside. In the case where the more advantageous is to have the minimal exchange, the chosen shape is generally the ovoid (such are eggs, grains, fruits, cetaceans, etc. with the sphere as the perfect limit), which for a given volume limits the surface to its minimum. When the exchange is fundamental important surface is necessary an aminimal material cost. The binary branching increases considerably the surface without increasing much the volume of matter. This is the case for vegetal trees and vascular, pulmonary, urinary systems. The nervous system may be seen as a system of exchanges between emitting and receiving binary arborizations, offering a huge combinatorial range.\n\nOne problem of neuromorphology is because it has not to describe one object, the brain, but an average brain. This justifies an extensive use of statistics.\n\nTyner (1975) and Rowe and Stone (1977)have analysed the conceptual bases to be respected in the process of neuronal classification. They insisted on the necessity of separating classification and identification.\n\nClassifications must be based on multifactorial techniques and to be hierarchical (following the bicentennial animal taxonomy).\nWhen many namings or identifications were done on the characteristics of the soma, it appeared clear that only a quantitative study of complete dendritic arborisations was able to offer a means for a neutral neuronal taxonomy. A particular kind of a group of neuron in a localized part of the brain in one animal species is called a neuronal species. When neurons of about the same morphology is observed at the same place in another animal species, it is a neuronal genus. There are also neuronal families and so on. For example, spiny neurons of the striatum of macaque are one species. Along with that of man and/or other species they form a genus. Statistical comparisons allow to analyse what remained the same or what has changed in evolution.\n\nStarting from objectively defined neurons, it became possible to constitute neuronal sets.\n\n«The theory of set underlies virtually every branch of mathematics» (Kahn, 1995). Great changes in the way of analysing and reasoning have been brought by set theory . This starts from simple concepts. For instance «a set is a collection of elements » (Kahn, 1995) which is intuitive and has not to be demonstrated. The elements have in common to be members of the set. A particular set is defined by the common properties of its elements. This raises problems of similarities and finally of typology and classification.\n\nNeuronal sets may be sets of entire neurons or of neuronal parts.\n\nOur ability to think, react and remember relies on the function of the nervous system. We cannot understand the human brain without first elucidating the properties and function of its main unit elements, the neurons.\n\nThese are complex and specialized cells. However, the improved understanding of cellular evolution achieved over the last several years has revealed that even the most sophisticated and unique properties of nerve cells represent an adaptation of basic functions observed in all eukaryotic cells, including unicellular organisms. Thus, cellular neurobiology has become an important chapter of cell biology. Studies of neurons greatly capitalize on progress in fundamental cell biology. Conversely, research on specialized features of neurons is producing major fall-outs in other areas of biology. Projects of cellular neurobiology in the department focus on mechanisms in membrane traffic at the synapse, on the development and maintenance of cell polarity and on the mechanisms responsible for the heterogeneous distribution of organelles and macromolecules within the neuronal cytoplasm. Formation and plasticity of synapses are also investigated. In the tradition of the department, questions in these fields are approached in a multidisciplinary fashion using genetics, protein and lipid biochemistry, molecular biology and state of the art light and electron microscopy imaging techniques. Experimental systems include mouse models, cultured neurons, large model synapses, isolated synaptic preparations and cell free systems. Special emphasis is placed on interfaces between this basic research and disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "38754765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38754765", "title": "Violence against men", "text": "Violence against men\n\nViolence against men (VAM), consists of violent acts that are disproportionately or exclusively committed against men. Men are overrepresented as both victims and perpetrators of violence. Sexual violence against men is treated differently in any given society from that committed against women, and may be unrecognized by international law.\n\nStudies of social attitudes show violence is perceived as more or less serious depending on the gender of victim and perpetrator. According to a study in the publication \"Aggressive Behavior\", violence against women was about a third more likely to be reported by third parties to the police regardless of the gender of the attacker, although the most likely to be reported gender combination was a male perpetrator and female victim. The use of stereotypes by law enforcement is a recognised issue, and international law scholar Solange Mouthaan argues that, in conflict scenarios, sexual violence against men has been ignored in favor of a focus on sexual violence against women and children. One explanation for this difference in focus is the physical power that men hold over women making people more likely to condemn violence with this gender configuration. The concept of male survivors of violence go against social perceptions of the male gender role, leading to low recognition and few legal provisions. Often there is no legal framework for a woman to be prosecuted when committing violent offenses against a man.\n\nRichard Felson challenges the assumption that violence against women is different from violence against men. The same motives play a role in almost all violence, regardless of gender: to gain control or retribution and to promote or defend self-image.\n\nWriting for TIME, Cathy Young criticised the feminist movement for not doing enough to challenge double standards in the treatment of male victims of physical abuse and sexual assault.\n\nIn 2013 editor-in-chief of the journal \"Partner Abuse\", John Hamel, set up the Domestic Violence Research Group to create the \"Partner Abuse State of Knowledge Project (PASK)\". PASK found parity in rates of both perpetration and victimisation for men and women.\n\nMen who are victims of domestic violence are at times reluctant to report it or to seek help. According to some commentators there is also a paradigm that only males perpetrate domestic violence and are never victims. Shamita Das Dasgupta and Erin Pizzey are amongst those who argue that, as with other forms of violence against men, intimate partner violence is generally less recognized in society when the victims are men. Violence of women against men in relationships is often 'trivialized' due to the supposed weaker physique of women; in such cases the use of dangerous objects and weapons is omitted. Research since the 1990s has identified issues of perceived and actual bias when police are involved, with the male victim being negated even whilst injured.\n\nAccording to the journalist Martin Daubney \"...there remains a theory that men under report their experiences [of violence by women against men] due to a culture of masculine expectations. The official figure in the United Kingdom, for example, is about 50% of the number of acts of violence by men against women, but there are indications that only about 10% of male victims of female violence report the incidents to the authorities, mainly due to taboos and fears of misunderstanding created by a culture of masculine expectations. By comparison 1.9 million people aged 16-59 told the Crime Survey for England and Wales (year ending March 2017), that they were victims of domestic violence and 79% did not report their partner or ex-partner. Of the 1.9 million, approximately 1.2 million were female and 713,000 were male. A Canadian report found that men were 22% more likely to report being victims of spousal violence in their current relationship than women. Researchers Stemple and Meyer report that sexual violence by women against men is often understudied or unrecognized.\n\nNon-therapeutic male circumcision is considered, by several groups, to be a form of violence against young men and boys. The International Criminal Court considers forced circumcision to be an \"inhumane act\". Some court decisions have found it to be a violation of a child's rights. In certain countries, such as Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, Indonesia, Pakistan, the Philippines, South Korea, Turkey and the United States, newborn baby males are routinely circumcised without the child's consent. As well, the Jewish and Muslim faiths circumcise boys at a young age. It is also practiced in Coptic Christianity and the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.\n\nAny cutting whatsoever of a female's genitals, also known as female genital mutilation, has been banned in most Western countries, starting in Sweden in 1982 and the United States in 1997. When Sweden outlawed it in 1982, it became the first Western country to do so. Several former colonial powers, including Belgium, Britain, France and the Netherlands, followed suit, either with new laws or by making clear that it was covered by existing legislation.\n\nAlthough a 2012 court ruling in Germany put the practice of male cutting under question, calling circumcision \"grievous bodily harm,\" the German parliament passed a law to keep circumcision of boys legal. As of 2016, cutting of boys' foreskins is still legal worldwide.\n\nIn situations of structural violence that include war and genocide, men and boys are frequently singled out and killed. The murder of targets by sex during the Kosovo War, estimates of civilian male victims of mass killings suggest that they made up more than 90% of all civilian casualties.\n\nNon-combatant men and boys have been and continue to be the most frequent targets of mass killing and genocidal slaughter, as well as a host of lesser atrocities and abuses. Gendercide Watch, an independent human rights group, documents multiple gendercides aimed at males (adult and children): The Anfal Campaign, \n(Iraqi Kurdistan), 1988 – Armenian Genocide (1915-17) – Rwanda, 1994. Forced conscription can also be considered gender-based violence against men.\n\nIn armed conflict, sexual violence is committed by men against men as psychological warfare in order to demoralize the enemy. The practice is ancient, and was recorded as taking place during the Crusades. Castration is used as a means of physical torture with strong psychological effects, namely the loss of the ability to procreate and the loss of the status of a full man. International criminal law does not consider gender based sexual violence against men a separate type of offense and treats it as war crimes or torture. The culture of silence around this issue often leaves men with no support.\n\nIn 2012, a UNHCR report stated that \"SGBV (sexual and gender based violence) against men and boys has generally been mentioned as a footnote in reports\". In one study, less than 3% of organizations that address rape as a weapon of war, mention men or provide services to male victims. It was noted in 1990 that the English language is \"bereft of terms and phrases which accurately describe male rape\".\n\nIn the U.S., crime statistics from the 1976 onwards show that men make up the majority of the homicide perpetrators regardless if the victim is female or male. Men are also over-represented as victims in homicide involving both male and female offenders. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, women who kill men are most likely to kill acquaintances, spouses or boyfriends while men are more likely to kill strangers. In many cases, women kill men due to being victims of intimate partner violence, however it should be noted that this research was conducted on women on death row, a sample size of approximately 97 during the last 100 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263473", "title": "Volley theory", "text": "Volley theory\n\nVolley theory states that groups of neurons of the auditory system respond to a sound by firing action potentials slightly out of phase with one another so that when combined, a greater frequency of sound can be encoded and sent to the brain to be analyzed. The theory was proposed by Ernest Wever and Charles Bray in 1930 as a supplement to the frequency theory of hearing. It was later discovered that this only occurs in response to sounds that are about 500 Hz to 5000 Hz.\n\nThe volley theory was explained in depth in Ernest Wever's 1949 book, Theory of Hearing Groups of neurons in the cochlea individually fire at subharmonic frequencies of a sound being heard and collectively phase-lock to match the total frequencies of the sound. The reason for this is that neurons can only fire at a maximum of about 500 Hz but other theories of hearing did not explain for hearing sounds below about 5000 Hz.\n\nSounds are often sums of multiple frequency tones. When these frequencies are whole number multiples of a fundamental frequency they create a harmonic. When groups of auditory neurons are presented with harmonics, each neuron fires at one frequency and when combined, the entire harmonic is encoded into the primary auditory cortex of the brain. This is the basis of volley theory.\n\nPhase-locking is known as matching amplitude times to a certain phase of another waveform. In the case of auditory neurons, this means firing an action potential at a certain phase of a stimulus sound being delivered. It has been seen that when being played a pure tone, auditory nerve fibers will fire at the same frequency as the tone. Volley theory suggests that groups of auditory neurons use phase-locking to represent subharmonic frequencies of one harmonic sound. This has been shown in guinea pig and cat models.\n\nIn 1980, Don Johnson experimentally revealed phase-locking in the auditory nerve fibers of the adult cat. In the presence of -40 to -100 decibel single tones lasting 15 or 30 seconds, recordings from the auditory nerve fibers showed firing fluctuations in synchrony with the stimulus. Johnson observed that during frequencies below 1000 Hz, two peaks are recorded for every cycle of the stimulus, which had varying phases according to stimulation frequency. This phenomenon was interpreted as the result of a second harmonic, phase-locking to the stimulus waveform. However, at frequencies between about 1000 Hz and 5000 Hz, phase-locking becomes progressively inaccurate and intervals tend to become more random.\n\nPitch is an assigned, perceptual property where a listener orders sound frequencies from low to high. Pitch is hypothesized to be determined by receiving phase-locked input from neuronal axons and combining that information into harmonics. In simple sounds consisting of one frequency, the pitch is equivalent to the frequency. There are two models of pitch perception; a spectral and a temporal. Low frequency sounds evoke the strongest pitches, suggesting that pitch is based on the temporal components of the sound.\nHistorically, there have been many models of pitch perception. (Terhardt, 1974; Goldstein, 1973; Wightman, 1973). Many consisted of a peripheral spectral-analysis stage and a central periodicity-analysis stage. In his model, Terhardt claims that the spectral-analysis output of complex sounds, specifically low frequency ones, is a learned entity which eventually allows easy identification of the virtual pitch. The volley principle is predominantly seen during the pitch perception of lower frequencies where sounds are often resolved. Goldstein proposed that through phase-locking and temporal frequencies encoded in neuron firing rates, the brain has the itemization of frequencies that can then be used to estimate pitch.\n\nThroughout the nineteenth century, many theories and concepts of hearing were created. Ernest Wever proposed the volley theory in 1937 with his paper \"The Perception of Low Tones and the Resonance-Volley Theory\". In this paper, Wever discusses previous theories of hearing and introduces volley theory using support from his own experiments and research. The theory was introduced as a supplement to the frequency theory or temporal theory of hearing, which was in contrast to the place theory of hearing.\n\nThe most prominent figure in the creation of the place theory of hearing is Hermann von Helmholtz, who published his finished theory in 1885. Helmholtz claimed that the cochlea contained individual fibers for analyzing each pitch and delivering that information to the brain. Many followers revised and added to Helmholtz's theory and the consensus soon became that high frequency sounds were encoded near the base of the cochlea and that middle frequency sounds were encoded near the apex. Georg von Békésy developed a novel method of dissecting the inner ear and using stroboscopic illumination to observe the basilar membrane move, adding evidence to support the theory.\n\nIdeas related to the frequency theory of hearing came about in the late 1800s as a result of the research of many individuals. In 1865, Heinrich Adolf Rinne challenged the place theory; he claimed that it’s not very efficient for complex sounds to be broken into simple sounds then be reconstructed in the brain. Later, Friedrich Voltolini added on by proposing that every auditory hair cell is stimulated by any sound. Correspondingly, William Rutherford providing evidence that this hypothesis was true, allowing greater accuracy of the cochlea. In 1886, Rutherford also proposed that the brain interpreted the vibrations of the hair cells and that the cochlea did no frequency or pitch analysis of the sound. Soon after, Max Friedrich Meyer, among other ideas, theorized that nerves would be excited at the same frequency of the stimulus.\n\nOf the various theories and notions created by Rinne, Rutherford, and their followers, the frequency theory was born. In general, it claimed that all sounds were encoded to the brain by neurons firing at a rate that mimics the frequency of the sound. However, because humans can hear frequencies up to 20,000 Hz but neurons cannot fire at these rates, the frequency theory had a major flaw. In an effort to combat this fault, Ernest Wever and Charles Bray, in 1930, proposed the volley theory, claiming that multiple neurons could fire in a volley to later combine and equal the frequency of the original sound stimulus. Through more research, it was determined that because phase synchrony is only accurate up to about 1000 Hz, volley theory cannot account for all frequencies at which we hear.\n\nUltimately, as new methods of studying the inner ear came about, a combination of place theory and frequency theory was adopted. Today, it is widely believed that hearing follows the rules of the frequency theory, including volley theory, at frequencies below 1000 Hz and place theory at frequencies above 5000 Hz. For sounds with frequencies between 1000 and 5000 Hz, both theories come into play so the brain can utilize the basilar membrane location and the rate of the impulse.\n\nDue to the invasiveness of most hearing related experiments, it is difficult to use human models in the study of the auditory system. However, many findings have been revealed in cats and guinea pigs. Additionally, there are few ways to study the basilar membrane \"in vivo\".\n\nMany revolutionary concepts regarding hearing and encoding sound in the brain were founded in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Various tool were used induce a response in auditory nerves that were to be recorded. Experiments by Helmholtz, Wever, and Bray often involved the use of organ pipes, stretched springs, loaded reeds, lamellas, vibrating forks, beats, and interruption tones to create “clicks”, harmonics, or pure tones. Today, electronic oscillators are often used to create sinusoidal or square waves of precise frequencies.\n\nAttempts to electrically record from the auditory nerve began as early as 1896. Electrodes were placed into the auditory nerve of various animal models to give insight on the rate at which the neurons are firing. In a 1930 experiment involving the auditory nerve of a cat, Wever and Bray found that 100–5000 Hz sounds played to the cat produced similar frequency firing in the nerve. This supported the frequency theory and the volley theory.\n\nPioneered by Georg von Békésy, a method to observe the basilar membrane in action came about in the mid 1900s. Békésy isolated the cochlea from human and animal cadavers and labeled the basilar membrane with silver flakes. This allowed strobe imaging to capture the movement of the membrane as sounds stimulated the hair cells. This led to the solidification of the idea that high frequencies excite the basal end of the cochlea and provided new information that low frequencies excite a large area of the cochlea. This new finding suggested that specialized properties are occurring for high frequency hearing and that low frequencies involve mechanisms explained in the frequency theory.\n\nA fundamental frequency is the lowest frequency of a harmonic. In some cases, sound can have all the frequencies of a harmonic but be missing the fundamental frequency, this is known as missing fundamental. When listening to a sound with a missing fundamental, the human brain still receives information for all frequencies, including the fundamental frequency which does not exist in the sound. This implies that sound is encoded by neurons firing at all frequencies of a harmonic, therefore, the neurons must be locked in some way to result in the hearing of one sound.\nCongenital deafness or sensorineural hearing loss is an often used model for the study of the inner ear regarding pitch perception and theories of hearing in general. Frequency analysis of these individuals’ hearing has given insight on common deviations from normal tuning curves, excitation patterns, and frequency discrimination ranges. By applying pure or complex tones, information on pitch perception can be obtained. In 1983, it was shown that subjects with low frequency sensorineural hearing loss demonstrated abnormal psychophysical tuning curves. Changes in the spatial responses in these subjects showed similar pitch judgment abilities when compared to subjects with normal spatial responses. This was especially true regarding low frequency stimuli. These results suggest that the place theory of hearing does not explain pitch perception at low frequencies, but that the temporal (frequency) theory is more likely. This conclusion is due to the finding that when deprived of basilar membrane place information, these patients still demonstrated normal pitch perception. Computer models for pitch perception and loudness perception are often used during hearing studies on acoustically impaired subjects. The combination of this modeling and knowledge of natural hearing allows for better development of hearing aids.\n"}
{"id": "152262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152262", "title": "Will-o'-the-wisp", "text": "Will-o'-the-wisp\n\nIn folklore, a will-o'-the-wisp, will-o'-wisp or ignis fatuus (; Medieval Latin for \"foolish fire\") is an atmospheric ghost light seen by travelers at night, especially over bogs, swamps or marshes. The phenomenon is known in English folk belief, English folklore and much of European folklore by a variety of names, including jack-o'-lantern, friar's lantern, hinkypunk and hobby lantern, and is said to mislead travelers by resembling a flickering lamp or lantern. In literature, will-o'-the-wisp sometimes have a metaphorical meaning, e.g. describing a hope or goal that leads one on but is impossible to reach, or something one finds sinister and confounding.\n\nWill-o'-the-wisp appear in folk tales and traditional legends of numerous countries and cultures; notable will-o'-the-wisp include St. Louis Light in Saskatchewan, Marfa lights of Texas, the Naga fireballs on the Mekong in Thailand, and the Hessdalen light in Norway. While urban legends, folkore, and superstition typically attribute will-o'-the-wisps to ghosts, fairies, or elemental spirits, modern science often explains them as natural phenomena such as bioluminescence or chemiluminescence, caused by the oxidation of phosphine (PH), diphosphane (PH), and methane (CH) produced by organic decay.\n\nThe term \"will-o'-the-wisp\" comes from \"wisp\", a bundle of sticks or paper sometimes used as a torch, and the name \"Will\", thus meaning \"Will of the torch\". The term \"jack-o'-lantern\" (Jack of the lantern) originally referred to a will-o'-the-wisp. In the United States, they are often called \"spook-lights\", \"ghost-lights\", or \"orbs\" by folklorists and paranormal enthusiasts.\n\nFolk belief attributes the phenomenon to fairies or elemental spirits, explicitly in the term \"hobby lanterns\" found in the 19th century Denham Tracts. In her book \"A Dictionary of Fairies,\" K. M. Briggs provides an extensive list of other names for the same phenomenon, though the place where they are observed (graveyard, bogs, etc.) influences the naming considerably. When observed in graveyards, they are known as \"ghost candles\", also a term from the Denham Tracts.\n\nThe names \"will-o'-the-wisp\" and \"jack-o'-lantern\" are explained in etiological folk-tales, recorded in many variant forms in Ireland, Scotland, England, Wales, Appalachia, and Newfoundland. In these tales, protagonists named either Will or Jack are doomed to haunt the marshes with a light for some misdeed. One version from Shropshire is recounted by Briggs in \"A Dictionary of Fairies\" and refers to Will the Smith. Will is a wicked blacksmith who is given a second chance by Saint Peter at the gates of heaven, but leads such a bad life that he ends up being doomed to wander the earth. The Devil provides him with a single burning coal with which to warm himself, which he then uses to lure foolish travellers into the marshes.\n\nAn Irish version of the tale has a ne'er-do-well named Drunk Jack or Stingy Jack who, when the Devil comes to collect his soul, tricks him into turning into a coin, so he can pay for his one last drink. When the Devil obliges, Jack places him in his pocket next to a crucifix, preventing him from returning to his original form. In exchange for his freedom, the Devil grants Jack ten more years of life. When the term expires, the Devil comes to collect his due. But Jack tricks him again by making him climb a tree and then carving a cross underneath, preventing him from climbing down. In exchange for removing the cross, the Devil forgives Jack's debt. However, no one as bad as Jack would ever be allowed into heaven, so Jack is forced upon his death to travel to hell and ask for a place there. The Devil denies him entrance in revenge but grants him an ember from the fires of hell to light his way through the twilight world to which lost souls are forever condemned. Jack places it in a carved turnip to serve as a lantern. Another version of the tale is \"Willy the Whisp\", related in \"Irish Folktales\" by Henry Glassie. \"Séadna\" by Peadar Ua Laoghaire is yet another version—and also the first modern novel in the Irish language.\n\nMexico has two equivalents as well. In one they are called brujas (witches), folklore explains will-o-the-wisp to be witches who transformed into these lights. The reason for this, however, varies according to the region. Another explanation refers to the lights as indicators to places where gold or hidden treasures are buried which can be found only with the help of children, in this one they are called luces del dinero (money lights) or luces del tesoro (treasure lights).\n\nThe swampy area of Massachusetts known as the Bridgewater Triangle has folklore of ghostly orbs of light, and there have been modern observations of these ghost-lights in this area as well.\n\nThe fi follet (or feu-follet) of Louisiana is derived from the French incubus/succubus. The legend says that the fi follet is a soul sent back from the dead to do God's penance, but instead attacks people for vengeance. While it mostly takes part in harmless mischievous acts, the fi follet sometimes sucked the blood of children. Some legends say that it was the soul of a child who died before baptism.\n\nWill-o-the-wisp is a part of the folklore in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Venezuela and Uruguay.\n\nBoi-tatá () is the Brazilian equivalent of the will-o'-the-wisp. Regionally it is called \"Boitatá\", \"Baitatá\", \"Batatá\", \"Bitatá\", \"Batatão\", \"Biatatá\", \"M'boiguaçu\", \"Mboitatá\" and \"Mbaê-Tata\". The name comes from the Old Tupi language and means \"fiery serpent\" (\"mboî tatá\"). Its great fiery eyes leave it almost blind by day, but by night, it can see everything. According to legend, Boi-tatá was a big serpent which survived a great deluge. A \"boiguaçu\" (a cave anaconda) left its cave after the deluge and, in the dark, went through the fields preying on the animals and corpses, eating exclusively its favorite morsel, the eyes. The collected light from the eaten eyes gave \"Boitatá\" its fiery gaze. Not really a dragon but a giant snake (in the native language, \"boa\" or \"mboi\" or \"mboa\").\n\nIn Argentina and Uruguay the will-o'-the-wisp phenomenon is known as luz mala \"(evil light)\" and is one of the most important myths in both countries' folklore. This phenomenon is quite feared and is mostly seen in rural areas. It consists of an extremely shiny ball of light floating a few inches from the ground.\n\nIn Colombia, La Candileja is the will-o-the-wisp ghost of a vicious grandmother who raised her grandchildren without morals, and as such they became thieves and murderers. In the afterlife the grandmother's spirit was condemned to wander the world surrounded in flames.\n\nAleya (or marsh ghost-light) is the name given to a strange light phenomena occurring over the marshes as observed by Bengalis, especially the fishermen of West Bengal and Bangladesh. This marsh light is attributed to some kind of marsh gas apparitions that confuse fishermen, make them lose their bearings, and may even lead to drowning if one decided to follow them moving over the marshes. Local communities in the region believe that these strange hovering marsh-lights are in fact Ghost-lights representing the ghosts of fisherman who died fishing. Sometimes they confuse the fishermen, and sometimes they help them avoid future dangers.\n\nChir batti (ghost-light), also spelled chhir batti or cheer batti, is a strange dancing light phenomenon occurring on dark nights reported from the Banni grasslands, its seasonal marshy wetlands and the adjoining desert of the marshy salt flats of the Rann of Kutch near Indo-Pakistani border in Kutch district, Gujarat State, India. Local villagers have been seeing these sometimes hovering, sometimes flying balls of lights since time immemorial and call it Chir Batti in their Kutchhi–Sindhi language, with Chir meaning ghost and Batti meaning light.\n\nSimilar phenomena are described in Japanese folklore, including Hitodama (literally \"Human Soul\" as a ball of energy), Hi no Tama (Ball of Flame), Aburagae, Koemonbi, Ushionibi, etc. All these phenomena are described as balls of flame or light, at times associated with graveyards, but occurring across Japan as a whole in a wide variety of situations and locations. Kitsune, mythical yokai demons, are also associated with will 'o the wisp, with the marriage of two kitsune producing kitsune-bi (狐火), literally meaning 'fox-fire'. These phenomena are described in Shigeru Mizuki's 1985 book \"Graphic World of Japanese Phantoms\" (妖怪伝 in Japanese).\n\nIn European folklore, these lights are believed to be spirits of the dead, fairies, or a variety of other supernatural beings which attempt to lead travelers to their demise. Sometimes the lights are believed to be the spirits of unbaptized or stillborn children, flitting between heaven and hell.\n\nIn Sweden, the will-o'-the-wisp represents the soul of an unbaptized person \"trying to lead travellers to water in the hope of being baptized\".\n\nDanes, Finns, Swedes, Estonians, Latvians, Lithuanians, and Irish people and amongst some other groups believed that a will-o'-the-wisp also marked the location of a treasure deep in ground or water, which could be taken only when the fire was there. Sometimes magical tricks, and even dead man's hand, were required as well, to uncover the treasure. In Finland and several other northern countries, it was believed that early autumn was the best time to search for will-o'-the-wisps and treasures below them. It was believed that when someone hid treasure, in the ground, he made the treasure available only at the Saint John's Day, and set will-o'-the-wisp to mark the exact place and time so that he could come to take the treasure back. For then he could be fulfilled with treasures.\n\nThe Aarnivalkea, in Finnish mythology, are spots where an eternal flame associated with will o' the wisps burns. They are claimed to mark the places where faerie gold is buried. They are protected by a glamour that would prevent anyone finding them by pure chance. However, if one finds a fern seed from a mythical flowering fern, the magical properties of that seed will lead the fortunate person to these treasures, in addition to providing one with a glamour of invisibility. Since in reality the fern produces no flower and reproduces via spores under the leaves, the myth specifies that it blooms only extremely rarely.\n\nThe will-o'-the-wisp can be found in numerous folk tales around the United Kingdom, and is often a malicious character in the stories. In Welsh folklore, it is said that the light is \"fairy fire\" held in the hand of a púca, or pwca, a small goblin-like fairy that mischievously leads lone travellers off the beaten path at night. As the traveller follows the púca through the marsh or bog, the fire is extinguished, leaving them lost. The púca is said to be one of the Tylwyth Teg, or fairy family. In Wales the light predicts a funeral that will take place soon in the locality. Wirt Sikes in his book \"British Goblins\" mentions the following Welsh tale about púca.\n\nA peasant travelling home at dusk sees a bright light traveling along ahead of him. Looking closer, he sees that the light is a lantern held by a \"dusky little figure\", which he follows for several miles. All of a sudden he finds himself standing on the edge of a vast chasm with a roaring torrent of water rushing below him. At that precise moment the lantern-carrier leaps across the gap, lifts the light high over its head, lets out a malicious laugh and blows out the light, leaving the poor peasant a long way from home, standing in pitch darkness at the edge of a precipice. This is a fairly common cautionary tale concerning the phenomenon; however, the ignis fatuus was not always considered dangerous. There are some tales told about the will-o'-the-wisp being guardians of treasure, much like the Irish leprechaun leading those brave enough to follow them to sure riches. Other stories tell of travelers getting lost in the woodland and coming upon a will-o'-the-wisp, and depending on how they treated the will-o'-the-wisp, the spirit would either get them lost further in the woods or guide them out.\n\nAlso related, the Pixy-light from Devon and Cornwall is most often associated with the Pixie who often has \"pixie-led\" travellers away from the safe and reliable route and into the bogs with glowing lights. \"Like Poltergeist they can generate uncanny sounds. They were less serious than their German Weisse Frauen kin, frequently blowing out candles on unsuspecting courting couples or producing obscene kissing sounds, which were always misinterpreted by parents.\" Pixy-Light was also associated with \"lambent light\" which the Old Norse might have seen guarding their tombs. In Cornish folklore, Pixy-Light also has associations with the Colt pixie. \"A colt pixie is a pixie that has taken the shape of a horse and enjoys playing tricks such as neighing at the other horses to lead them astray\". In Guernsey, the light is known as the \"faeu boulanger\" (rolling fire), and is believed to be a lost soul. On being confronted with the spectre, tradition prescribes two remedies. The first is to turn one's cap or coat inside out. This has the effect of stopping the faeu boulanger in its tracks. The other solution is to stick a knife into the ground, blade up. The faeu, in an attempt to kill itself, will attack the blade.\n\nThe will-o'-the-wisp was also known as the Spunkie in the Scottish Highlands where it would take the form of a linkboy (a boy who carried a flaming torch to light the way for pedestrians in exchange for a fee), or else simply a light that always seemed to recede, in order to lead unwary travelers to their doom. The spunkie has also been blamed for shipwrecks at night after being spotted on land and mistaken for a harbor light. Other tales of Scottish folklore regard these mysterious lights as omens of death or the ghosts of once living human beings. They often appeared over lochs or on roads along which funeral processions were known to travel. A strange light sometimes seen in the Hebrides is referred to as the \"teine sith\", or \"fairy light\", though there was no formal connection between it and the fairy race.\n\nThe Australian equivalent, known as the Min Min light is reportedly seen in parts of the outback after dark. The majority of sightings are reported to have occurred in the Channel Country region.\n\nStories about the lights can be found in aboriginal myth pre-dating western settlement of the region and have since become part of wider Australian folklore. Indigenous Australians hold that the number of sightings has increased alongside the increasing ingression of Europeans into the region. According to folklore, the lights sometimes followed or approached people and have disappeared when fired upon, only to reappear later on.\n\nIn modern science, it is generally accepted that will-o'-the-wisp phenomena (ignis fatuus) are caused by the oxidation of phosphine (PH), diphosphane (PH), and methane (CH). These compounds, produced by organic decay, can cause photon emissions. Since phosphine and diphosphane mixtures spontaneously ignite on contact with the oxygen in air, only small quantities of it would be needed to ignite the much more abundant methane to create ephemeral fires. Furthermore, phosphine produces phosphorus pentoxide as a by-product, which forms phosphoric acid upon contact with water vapor, which can explain \"viscous moisture\" sometimes described as accompanying ignis fatuus.\n\nIn 1776, Alessandro Volta first proposed that natural electrical phenomena (like lightning) interacting with methane marsh gas may be the cause of ignis fatuus. This was supported by the British polymath Joseph Priestley in his series of works \"Experiments and Observations on Different Kinds of Air\" (1772–1790); and by the French physicist Pierre Bertholon de Saint-Lazare in \"De l’électricité des météores\" (1787).\n\nEarly critics of the marsh gas hypothesis often dismissed it on various grounds including the unlikeliness of spontaneous combustion, the absence of warmth in some observed ignis fatuus, the odd behavior of ignis fatuus receding upon being approached, and the differing accounts of ball lightning (which was also classified as a kind of ignis fatuus). An example of such criticism is the following by the American anthropologist John G. Owens in \"Folk-Lore from Buffalo Valley\" (1891):\n\nThis is a name that is sometimes applied to a phenomenon perhaps more frequently called Jack-o'-the-Lantern, or Will-o'-the-Wisp. It seems to be a ball of fire, varying in size from that of a candle-flame to that of a man's head. It is generally observed in damp, marshy places, moving to and fro; but it has been known to stand perfectly still and send off scintillations. As you approach it, it will move on, keeping just beyond your reach; if you retire, it will follow you. That these fireballs do occur, and that they will repeat your motion, seems to be established, but no satisfactory explanation has yet been offered that I have heard. Those who are less superstitious say that it is the ignition of the gases rising from the marsh. But how a light produced from burning gas could have the form described and move as described, advancing as you advance, receding as you recede, and at other times remaining stationary, without having any visible connection with the earth, is not clear to me.\n\nHowever, the apparent retreat of ignis fatuus upon being approached might be explained simply by the agitation of the air by nearby moving objects, causing the gases to disperse. This was observed in the very detailed accounts of several close interactions with ignis fatuus published earlier in 1832 by Major Louis Blesson after a series of experiments in various localities where they were known to occur. Of note is his first encounter with ignis fatuus in a marshland between a deep valley in the forest of Gorbitz, Newmark, Germany. Blesson observed that the water was covered by an iridescent film, and during day-time, bubbles could be observed rising abundantly from certain areas. At night, Blesson observed bluish-purple flames in the same areas and concluded that it was connected to the rising gas. He spent several days investigating the phenomenon, finding to his dismay that the flames retreated every time he tried to approach them. He eventually succeeded and was able to confirm that the lights were indeed caused by ignited gas. The British scientist Charles Tomlinson in \"On Certain Low-Lying Meteors\" (1893) describes Blesson's experiments as thus:\n\nOn visiting the spot at night, the sensitive flames retired as the major advanced; but on standing quite still, they returned, and he tried to light a piece of paper at them, but the current of air produced by his breath kept them at too great a distance. On turning away his head, and screening his breath, he succeeded in setting fire to the paper. He was also able to extinguish the flame by driving it before him to a part of the ground where no gas was produced; then applying a flame to the place whence the gas issued, a kind of explosion was heard over eight or nine square feet of the marsh; a red light was seen, which faded to a blue flame about three feet high, and this continued to burn with an unsteady motion. As the morning dawned the flames became pale, and they seemed to approach nearer and nearer to the earth, until at last they faded from sight.\n\nBlesson also observed differences in the color and heat of the flames in different marshes. The ignis fatuus in Malapane, Upper Silesia (now Ozimek, Poland) could be ignited and extinguished, but were unable to burn pieces of paper or wood shavings. Similarly, the ignis fatuus in another forest in Poland coated pieces of paper and wood shavings with an oily viscous fluid instead of burning them. Blesson also accidentally created ignis fatuus in the marshes of Porta Westfalica, Germany, while launching fireworks.\n\nOne attempt to replicate ignis fatuus under laboratory conditions was in 1980 by British geologist Alan A. Mills of Leicester University. Though he did succeed in creating a cool glowing cloud by mixing crude phosphine and natural gas, the color of the light was green and it produced copious amounts of acrid smoke. This was contrary to most eyewitness accounts of ignis fatuus. As an alternative, Mills proposed in 2000 that ignis fatuus may instead be cold flames. These are luminescent pre-combustion halos that occur when various compounds are heated to just below ignition point. Cold flames are indeed typically bluish in color and as their name suggests, they generate very little heat. Cold flames occur in a wide variety of compounds, including hydrocarbons (including methane), alcohols, aldehydes, oils, acids, and even waxes. However it is unknown if cold flames occur naturally, though a lot of compounds which exhibit cold flames are the natural byproducts of organic decay.\n\nA related hypothesis involves the natural chemiluminescence of phosphine. In 2008, the Italian chemists Luigi Garlaschelli and Paolo Boschetti attempted to recreate Mills' experiments. They successfully created a faint cool light by mixing phosphine with air and nitrogen. Though the glow was still greenish in color, Garlaschelli and Boschetti noted that under low-light conditions, the human eye cannot easily distinguish between colors. Furthermore, by adjusting the concentrations of the gases and the environmental conditions (temperature, humidity, etc.), it was possible to eliminate the smoke and smell, or at least render it to undetectable levels. Garlaschelli and Boschetti also agreed with Mills that cold flames may also be a plausible explanation for other instances of ignis fatuus.\n\nIn 1993, professors Derr and Persinger proposed that some ignis fatuus may be geologic in origin, piezoelectrically generated under tectonic strain. The strains that move faults would also heat up the rocks, vaporizing the water in them. Rock or soil containing something piezoelectric, like quartz, silicon, or arsenic, may also produce electricity, channeled up to the surface through the soil via a column of vaporized water, there somehow appearing as earth lights. This would explain why the lights appear electrical, erratic, or even intelligent in their behavior.\n\nThe will-o'-the-wisp phenomena may occur due to the bioluminescence of various forest dwelling micro-organisms and insects. The eerie glow emitted from certain fungal species, such as the honey fungus, during chemical reactions to form white rot could be mistaken for the mysterious will-o'-the-wisp or foxfire lights. There are many other bioluminescent organisms that could create the illusions of fairy lights, such as fireflies. Light reflecting off larger forest dwelling creatures could explain the phenomena of will-o'-the-wisp moving and reacting to other lights. The white plumage of Barn owls may reflect enough light from the moon to appear as a will-o'-the-wisp; hence the possibility of the lights moving, reacting to other lights, etc.\n\nIgnis fatuus sightings are rarely reported today. The decline is believed to be the result of the draining and reclamation of swamplands in recent centuries, such as the formerly vast Fenlands of eastern England which have now been converted to farmlands.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2118100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118100", "title": "William John Wills", "text": "William John Wills\n\nWilliam John Wills (5 January 1834 – c.June/July 1861) was a British surveyor who also trained as a surgeon. He achieved fame as the second-in-command of the ill-fated Burke and Wills expedition, which was the first expedition to cross Australia from south to north, finding a route across the continent from the settled areas of Victoria to the Gulf of Carpentaria.\n\nWills was born in Totnes in Devon, the second child to Dr William Wills (bap 21 November 1790 Totnes, Devon – 28 September 1889) and Sarah Mary Elizabeth Wills (née Calley, 23 December 1800, bap 12 March 1801 Totnes, Devon – 19 February 1880). He was baptised in Totnes on 5 January 1834 in Totnes, and was one of seven children.\n\nHe lived at the family home at Ipplepen and as a young child he contracted a fever which left him with \"slow and hesitating speech\". He was home-tutored by his father until the age of 11 and then from 1845 to 1850 he attended St Andrew's Grammar School, Ashburton. He was then articled to Wills' surgical practice. In 1852 he studied practical chemistry under John Stenhouse at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London.\n\nDr Wills bought a share in the \"Melbourne Gold Mining Company\" in 1852 and planned to migrate to Australia with William and Thomas. However Sarah Wills objected to him leaving so Dr Wills delayed his departure and the two boys went alone. Eighteen-year-old William and fifteen-year-old Thomas left Dartmouth on 1 October 1852 aboard the \"Janet Mitchell\". They arrived in Melbourne on 3 January 1853 with 197 fellow unassisted passengers. William and Thomas found accommodation at the Immigrants Home in South Melbourne.\n\nIn February 1853 the Wills brothers found work as shepherds at a property owned by the \"Royal Bank Company\" on the Edward River near Deniliquin. They were paid £30 p.a. plus rations and were in charge of a flock of 1300 rams at the \"Ram Station\". Dr Wills followed his sons out to Australia, arriving in August 1853, and the three returned to Melbourne before moving to Ballarat where William took up work as a digger on the goldfields. In 1854 he worked as assistant surgeon in his father's practice and later he opened his own gold office. \n\nIn early 1855, William worked on William Skene's \"Kanawalla Station\" (Hensley Park) on the Wannon River near Hamilton. He returned to Ballarat in April 1855 and towards the end of the year he began to study surveying. He was appointed as an amateur to the office of John Hamlet Taylor, Acting District Surveyor in the Ballarat Survey Office on Sturt Street. William spent several months learning trigonometry, Euclid drawing and geometry and then in 1856 he went on to learn field-surveying. He started his practical experience at Glendaruel, near Tourello, where he worked under the supervision of Frederick John Byerly, Assistant Surveyor, on ₤150 p.a. plus board. In February 1857 he was working at Bullarook Creek Camp and in March 1857 he was surveying at Kingower near Inglewood. In the middle of 1857 he was promoted to foreman and placed in charge of a field party and his salary increased to ₤185 p.a. From April to June 1858 he was surveying at St Arnaud. His field party contract was terminated in June and he returned to Ballarat in July and took occasional contracts surveying for Clement Hodgkinson, the Deputy Surveyor General.\n\nWills moved to Melbourne in August 1858 and from August to December he lodged with Mrs E Henderson at 1 Dorcas Street, South Melbourne. In November 1858 he received a temporary appointment on the recommendation of Charles Whybrow Ligar, Surveyor-General, as a supernumerary at the recently established Magnetic Observatory which was then at Flagstaff Hill. In February 1859 one of the Observatory assistants, John Walter Osborne (1828-1902), transferred from the observatory to become a photolithographer in the Survey Department of the Office of Crown Lands and Survey. Wills' replaced him, and in March 1859 when his permanent appointment was confirmed, he moved into a room at the Observatory. Wills studied under Government Meteorologist and Observatory Director, Georg von Neumayer, and his work companions were Jacob Bauer, Charles E Pickering, Charles Moerlin and supernumeries John Osborne and Edwin James Welch.\n\nRobert O'Hara Burke was appointed leader of the Victorian Exploring Expedition with George James Landells as second-in-command. Wills was appointed third-in-command, surveyor, astronomical and meteorological observer in July 1860 on a salary of £300 a year. \n\nThe expedition left Melbourne on Monday, 20 August 1860 with a total of 19 men, 27 camels and 23 horses. They reached Menindee on 16 October 1860 where Landells resigned following an argument with Burke. Wills was promoted to second-in-command.\n\nBurke split the expedition at Menindee and the lead party reached Cooper Creek on 11 November 1860 where they formed a depot. The remaining men were expected to follow up from Menindee and so after a break, Burke decided to make a dash to the Gulf of Carpentaria. Burke split the party again and left on 16 December 1860, placing William Brahe in charge of the depot on Cooper Creek. Burke, Wills, John King and Charley Gray reached the mangroves on the estuary of the Flinders River, near where the town of Normanton now stands, on 9 February 1861. Flooding rains and swamps meant they never saw open ocean. \n\nAlready weakened by starvation and exposure, progress on the return journey was slow and hampered by the tropical monsoon downpours of the wet season. Gray died four days before they reached the depot at Cooper Creek and the other three took a day to bury him. They eventually reached the depot on 21 April 1861 to find the men had not arrived from Menindee, and that Brahe and the Depot Party had given up waiting and left just 9 hours earlier. Brahe had already waited 18 weeks for their return (he and Burke had agreed to 13 weeks) and had buried a note and some food underneath a tree which is now known as the \"Dig Tree\".\n\nBurke, Wills and King attempted to reach Mount Hopeless, the furthest extent of settlement in South Australia, which was closer than Menindee (the route preferred by Wills), but failed and returned to Cooper Creek. While waiting for rescue Wills became exhausted and was unable to continue. He urged Burke and King to continue on, leaving him alone with food, water and shelter. Wills died alone at a place called Breerily Waterhole on Cooper Creek in South Australia. Burke died soon after. The exact date of their deaths is unknown, but has generally been accepted to be 28 June 1861.\n\nKing survived with the help of Aborigines until he was rescued in September by Alfred William Howitt. Howitt buried Burke and Wills before returning to Melbourne. In 1862 Howitt returned to Cooper Creek and disinterred Burke and Wills' bodies, taking them first to Adelaide and then by steamer to Melbourne where they were laid in state for two weeks. On 23 January 1863 Burke and Wills received a State Funeral and were buried in Melbourne General Cemetery.\n\nA monument to Wills is located in Totnes, Devon.\n\n\n\n"}
