{"id": "225694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225694", "title": "1749 in literature", "text": "1749 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1749.\n\n\n\nSarah Fielding – \"The Governess, or The Little Female Academy\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "543433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543433", "title": "A League of Their Own", "text": "A League of Their Own\n\nA League of Their Own is a 1992 American sports comedy-drama film that tells a fictionalized account of the real-life All-American Girls Professional Baseball League (AAGPBL). Directed by Penny Marshall, the film stars Geena Davis, Tom Hanks, Madonna, Rosie O'Donnell, and Lori Petty. The screenplay was written by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel from a story by Kelly Candaele and Kim Wilson.\n\nIn 2012, \"A League of Their Own\" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nIn 1988, Dottie Hinson (Lynn Cartwright) attends the opening of the new All-American Girls Professional Baseball League (AAGPBL) exhibit at the Baseball Hall of Fame. She sees many of her former teammates and friends, prompting a flashback to 1943.\n\nWhen World War II threatens to shut down Major League Baseball, candy magnate and Cubs owner Walter Harvey (Garry Marshall) persuades his fellow owners to bankroll a women's league. Ira Lowenstein (David Strathairn) is put in charge, and Ernie Capadino (Jon Lovitz) is sent out to recruit players. Capadino attends an industrial-league softball game in rural Oregon and likes what he sees in Dottie (Geena Davis), the catcher for a local dairy's team. Dottie turns down Capadino's offer, happy with her simple farm life while waiting for her husband Bob (Bill Pullman) to come back from the war. Her sister and teammate, Kit (Lori Petty), however, is desperate to get away and make something of herself. Capadino is not impressed by Kit's hitting performance, but agrees to take her along if she can change Dottie's mind. Dottie agrees, but only for her sister's sake.\n\nDottie and Kit head out to Harvey Field in Chicago for the tryout. There they meet a pair of New Yorkers, taxi dancer \"All the Way\" Mae Mordabito (Madonna) and her best friend, bouncer Doris Murphy (Rosie O'Donnell); along with soft-spoken right fielder Evelyn Gardner (Bitty Schram); illiterate, shy left fielder Shirley Baker (Ann Cusack); pitcher/shortstop and former Miss Georgia beauty queen Ellen Sue Gotlander (Freddie Simpson); gentle left field/relief pitcher Betty \"Spaghetti\" Horn (Tracy Reiner); homely second baseman Marla Hooch (Megan Cavanagh), who was scouted by Ernie, Dottie and Kit in Fort Collins, Colorado; first baseman Helen Haley (Anne Ramsay); and Saskatchewan native Alice \"Skeeter\" Gaspers (Renée Coleman). They and eight others are selected to form the Rockford Peaches, while 48 others are split among the Racine Belles, Kenosha Comets, and South Bend Blue Sox.\n\nThe Peaches are managed by Jimmy Dugan (Tom Hanks), a former marquee Cubs slugger who initially treats the whole thing as a joke. The league attracts little interest at first. With a \"Life\" magazine photographer in the stands, Lowenstein begs the players to do something spectacular. Dottie obliges when a ball is popped up behind home plate, catching it while doing a split. The resulting photograph makes the magazine cover. A publicity campaign draws more people to the ballgames, but the owners remain unconvinced. Due to Kit's and Dottie's sibling rivalry, Kit is traded to the Peaches' rival, the Racine Belles.\n\nThe Peaches end the season qualifying for the league's World Series. In the locker room, Jimmy gives Betty a telegram that informs her her husband was killed in action in the Pacific Theater. The grief-stricken Betty leaves the team. Later that evening, Dottie receives a surprise when Bob, who was serving in Italy, shows up, having been discharged from the Army. The following morning, Jimmy discovers that Dottie is going home with Bob. Unable to persuade her to at least play in the World Series, he tells her she will regret her decision.\n\nThe Peaches and Belles meet in the World Series, which reaches a seventh and deciding game. Dottie, having reconsidered during the drive back to Oregon, is the catcher for the Peaches, while Kit is the starting pitcher for the Belles. With the Belles leading by a run in the top of the ninth, Dottie drives in the go-ahead run. Kit is the final batter. Under immense pressure, she gets a hit and, ignoring the third base coach's sign to stop, scores the winning run by knocking her sister over at the plate and dislodging the ball from Dottie's hand. The sellout crowd convinces Harvey to give Lowenstein the owners' support. After the game, the sisters reconcile before Dottie leaves with Bob.\n\nBack in the present, Dottie is reunited with several other players, including Kit. The fates of several of the characters are revealed: Jimmy, Bob, and Evelyn have died, while Marla has been married to Nelson (Alan Wilder), the man she met in the bar in an earlier scene, for over 40 years. The original Peaches sing a team song composed by Evelyn and pose for a group photo.\n\n\nOn MLB Network's \"Costas at the Movies\" in 2013, director Penny Marshall talked about her initial interest in Demi Moore for the part of Dottie Hinson, saying: \"Demi Moore, I liked, but by the time we came around, she was pregnant.\"\n\nDirector Penny Marshall was inspired to make the film after viewing the 1987 documentary about the AAGPBL titled \"A League of their Own\" on television. She had never heard of the league before, and contacted the film's creators Kelly Candaele and Kim Wilson to collaborate with the scriptwriters Babaloo Mandel and Lowell Ganz on producing a screenplay for 20th Century Fox. Fox eventually passed on the script and Marshall signed with Sony Pictures, who were eager to produce the film.\n\nFilming the game scenes involved many physical mishaps: Anne Ramsay (Helen Haley) broke her nose with a baseball mitt while trying to catch a ball and the huge bruise seen in the film on actress Renée Coleman's thigh was real.\nDiscussing the skirts they wore playing baseball in the film, Geena Davis said on MLB Network's \"Costas at the Movies\" in 2013, \"Some of our real cast, from sliding into home, had ripped the skin off their legs. It was nutty.\"\n\n\"A League of Their Own\" soundtrack was released on CD and cassette tape by Columbia Records on June 30, 1992. The album peaked at #159 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart on July 25, 1992. Although Madonna contributed \"This Used to Be My Playground\" to the film, featured over the closing credits, her recording was not included on the soundtrack album for contractual reasons.\n\nThe film was released on July 1, 1992, and grossed $13.2 million in its first weekend, finishing second at the box office behind \"Batman Returns\". In its second weekend it dropped just 15%, making $11.5 million and finishing first. It ended up being a commercial success, making $107.5 million in the United States, and $24.9 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $132.4 million, against a production budget of $40 million.\n\nThe film was well received by critics, who praised the cast and their performances.\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 78% based on 63 reviews, with an average rating of 6.8/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Sentimental and light, but still thoroughly charming, \"A League of Their Own\" is buoyed by solid performances from a wonderful cast.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score 67 out of 100, based 20 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"A–\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nOn December 19, 2012, it was announced that the film would be preserved as part of the United States National Film Registry.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\nWith 2012 marking the 20th year since the film's release, \"A League of Their Own\" was released as a 20th Anniversary Edition Blu-ray on October 16, 2012.\n\nForty-seven former players of the AAGPBL reunited in New York to celebrate the film and the real women who inspired it. Events included a trip to Cooperstown for a special program at the National Baseball Hall of Fame, reminiscent of the film's final scene depicting members of the AAGPBL and family coming together to witness the honoring of the Women's Professional Baseball League. The reunion wrapped up with a game of softball held at Alliance Bank Stadium in nearby Syracuse.\n\nFormer players also made an appearance at Bosse Field in Evansville, Indiana, on June 6, 2012, where many of the film's game scenes were filmed. Bosse Field still retains many of the \"Racine Belles\" themes from the movie. The event included an outdoor screening of the film as well as a scene-setting display of cars featured in the film. In addition to Bosse Field, the production used Huntingburg, Indiana's League Stadium, another Southwestern Indiana field older than Bosse that was renovated for the film.\n\nA short-lived series of the same title based on the film aired on CBS in April 1993, with Garry Marshall, Megan Cavanagh, Tracy Reiner, and Jon Lovitz reprising their roles. Only five of the six episodes made were broadcast.\n\n"}
{"id": "32966687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32966687", "title": "AfriCOBRA", "text": "AfriCOBRA\n\nAfriCOBRA (African Commune of Bad Relevant Artists) is an African American artists collective formed in Chicago in 1968. The five founding members of the group were Jeff Donaldson, Wadsworth Jarrell, Jae Jarrell, Barbara Jones-Hogu and Gerald Williams. Other early members who joined in the late 1960s and 1970s included Nelson Stevens, Napoleon Jones-Henderson, Carolyn Lawrence, Frank Smith and James Phillips. \n\nSome of AfriCOBRA's founding members had been associated with a multi-disciplinary Chicago association called OBAC (Organization of Black American Culture) that formed in the early 1960s and produced culturally-specific, pro-Black literature and visual arts. OBAC was most famous for creating the 1967 urban mural entitled the \"Wall of Respect\" on Chicago's South Side. AfriCOBRA members Jeff Donaldson, Wadsworth Jarrell, Barbara Jones-Hogu and Carolyn Lawrence were among a larger group of visual artists who contributed to the \"Wall of Respect\" project prior to the founding of AfriCOBRA. \n\nAfriCOBRA artists were associated with the Black Arts Movement in America, a movement that began in the mid-1960s and that celebrated culturally-specific expressions of the contemporary Black community in the realms of literature, theater, dance and the visual arts. \n\nBeginning in 1968, AfriCOBRA members met regularly on the South Side of Chicago at the home and studio of Wadsworth and Jae Jarrell where they discussed ways that their art could embody a \"Black aesthetic,\" and how their art could be placed in service of Black liberation movements. \n\nIn an interview celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Teresa A. Carbone (the Curator of American Art at the Brooklyn Museum) stated, \"It's difficult to draw a one-to-one correspondence between a work and an immediate social effect, but graphics from the Chicago artist collective AfriCOBRA, [African Commune of Bad Relevant Artists] really did help reshape the mindset of black communities.\" \n\nWhen the group originally formed in 1968, they called themselves the Coalition of Black Revolutionary Artists (COBRA). By early 1970, as the group prepared for its first major exhibition at the Studio Museum in Harlem, they were calling themselves the African Commune of Bad Relevant Artists (AfriCOBRA). The final name pulled sought to create a larger sense of community positing that art-making has a collective nature. The creators wanted the works to be accessible, so they made poster art that was designed for mass production. \n\nAfriCOBRA, worked to make African-American art a community effort. Much of the visual aesthetic of these works are focused on social, political, and economical conditions related to Black Americans. They created a manifesto entitled, \"Ten in Search of a Nation\" in 1969. \n\nOne of the most notable works was the commemoration of black revolutionaries in the \"Wall of Respect\" that was painted by the members of the Organization of Black American Culture (OBAC). Jeff Donaldson, Wadsworth Jarrell, Gerald Williams, and Barbara Jones-Hogu were members originally who later on formed AfriCOBRA, as well as Sylvia Abernathy, Myrna Weaver and others. This wall also became was Barbara Jones-Hogu writes as, \"...a visual symbol of Black nationalism and liberation.\"\n\nAfriCOBRA was more than a collection of artists; it was a passionate call for freedom founded on a set of philosophical and aesthetic principles. In the struggle for liberation and equality within the African-American community, AfriCOBRA represented these principles through the medium of art.\n\nBarbara Jones-Hogu characterized the artistic expression of the AfriCOBRA movement by saying: \"[Our art] must communicate to its viewer a statement of truth, of action, of education, of conditions and a state of being to our people. We wanted to speak to them and for them, by having our common thoughts, feelings, trials and tribulations express our total existence as a people.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47742732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47742732", "title": "Alaca Höyük bronze standards", "text": "Alaca Höyük bronze standards\n\nThe Alaca Höyük bronze standards are a series of bronze objects found among the grave goods in the princely tombs of Alaca Höyük. They are generally understood as cult instruments, probably to be attached to carts.\n\nFrom 1935–39, the Turkish archaeologists, Hamit Zübeyir Koşay and investigated the site of Alaca Höyük, near Alaca, Çorum Province. In the process they uncovered 14 tombs of the early Bronze age, which were named the \"Princely tombs\" or \"Kingly tombs\". Numerous grave offerings were found next to the burials - individually or in pairs - including more than twenty bronze standards.\n\nThe archaeologist Winfried Orthmann divides the standards into two main groups, one group consists of individual animals and the other of discs or rings (with or without images of animals). He subdivides these two groups based on the shape and contents of the discs or rings, and based on the type of creatures depicted.\n\nThe individual animals are all deer or bulls. The feet stand on four supports which converge at a point where it probably attached to a perishable wooden pole. The deer have expansive antlers, the cows have long curved horns. The highly stylised bodies are partially decorated with silver inlay and silver or gold leaf highlights the antlers and noses.\n\nThe disc or ring-shaped standards are round, half-circular or lozenge shaped. Several have a grill in the centre, surrounded by bands decorated with projections in the shape of birds, flowers or rays of the Sun. Most feature animals, which are very similar to the individual animals. Deer and bulls are particularly common on these, also, but unlike the individual animal standards, they sometimes appear in groups. Thus for example, a deer appears flanked by two bulls in one; in another, two lions or panthers stand to the left and right of a deer, which faces in the opposite direction. Another example depicts an animal which might be a roe deer or an onager. At the bottom of the disc or ring are a pair of horns, projecting outward and upward. At the bottom there is a cross bar with two pegs, which probably connected the standard to its pole.\n\nOnly very limited explanations of the meaning and function of the artefacts are possible. The excavators, Koşay und Arık, assumed a clear ritual role and based the rest of their interpretations on that. On account of the Sun ray decoration on some of the standards they are often known as \"Sun discs\", with the rings interpreted as symbols of the heavens. This interpretation is supported by Kurt Bittel, among others.\n\nThe most popular theory on their function was proposed by Seton Lloyd and James Mellaart and developed by Orthmann. They argued that the standards were part of a wagon buried with the deceased in the grave. The standards would, on this theory, have been located on the drawbar, perhaps where it met with the yoke. The term \"standard\" derives from this theory. Similar wagon standards are known from Ur and Kish in Mesopotamia as well as the bronze age kurgans of Lčašen and Lalajan in Armenia. There rings for the reins have been found, which Orthamann connects with the Alaca Höyük standards. He takes the presence of pairs of bull skulls and foot bones in the graves, arranged in a pattern similar to a yoked pair as further evidence. Whether the disc and round-shaped standards here were used for guiding the reins, like the examples in Armenia and Mesopotamia, must remain a possibility. Yet in that case, it is unclear why no remains of these wagons have been found in the tombs - extensive remains of the wooden covers of the graves have survived.\n\nSimilar finds at Horoztepe were interpreted as sistrums by the excavator there, the Turkish archaeologist Tahsin Özgüç, on account of the moving parts.\n\nThe archaeologist Karl Bittel says that based on the pottery in the princely graves, a date before the establishment of the Assyrian trading colonies in Asia Minor (i.e. before 1900 BC) is to be assumed. He drew parallels between the metal objects in the tombs and those from Troy II, which date from around 2100 BC. From the different levels of burials and the stylistic development of the grave goods, it appears that the cemetery functioned for a long time, possibly more than two hundred years, between the 22nd and 20th centuries BC - the period of the Hattians, before the rise of the Hittite Empire.\n\nThe Alaca Höyük bronze standards are used in stylised form by various organisations as logos, such as the University of Ankara, the city, and the province of Çorum. A massive reproduction of one of the standards stands in the middle of Sıhhiye Square in Ankara.\n\nThe standards are mostly displayed in the Museum of Anatolian Civilizations in Ankara, with some in the local museum of Alaca Höyük. Replicas of the graves and the standards are on display in the Çorum Archaeological Museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1333905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1333905", "title": "Applied arts", "text": "Applied arts\n\nThe applied arts are all the arts that apply design and decoration to everyday objects in order to make them aesthetically pleasing. The term is used in distinction to the fine arts that produce objects solely to be beautiful or stimulate the intellect. In practice, the two often overlap.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35566624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35566624", "title": "Beyond the Hills", "text": "Beyond the Hills\n\nBeyond the Hills () is a 2012 Romanian drama film directed by Cristian Mungiu, starring Cristina Flutur and Cosmina Stratan. The narrative follows two young women at an Eastern Orthodox convent in Romania.\n\nThe film premiered at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival, where Mungiu won the award for Best Screenplay, and Flutur and Stratan shared the award for Best Actress. It was selected as the Romanian entry for the Best Foreign Language Oscar at the 85th Academy Awards, making the January shortlist.\n\nTwo Romanian orphaned young women, Voichița and Alina, visit a Romanian Orthodox convent during Lent, where Voichița tells Alina the altar includes an icon that grants wishes. Alina had been working in Germany, and the two girls were previously roommates at a children's home and had shared a physical relationship. The monastery is led by a 30-year-old Priest who speaks ill of declining faith in Western Europe, citing same-sex marriage, and forbids anyone outside of the faith from entering. He inquires about Alina to Voichița, who tells him Alina irregularly attends church and does not go to confession. They urge Alina to begin confessing. Alina hopes to sleep with Voichița, but Voichița tells her they must be cautious given it is Lent.\n\nSome time later after Alina has left the convent, Voichița retrieves her, but Voichița tells Alina she is now a nun, that she has chosen to be with God so she will never be alone, and her love of Alina is different from before. They return to the convent, but Alina asks Voichița that they escape together. After Voichița refuses, Alina attempts to jump down a well, but is restrained by the nuns and taken to the hospital. There, doctors restrain Alina to prevent her self-harm, after which they send her back to the convent to assist with recovery. There, the nuns read to Alina about sin. Alina begins a Black Fast, but when the Priest learns of this when Alina is not at the table, they see Alina is attempting to enter the altar to make a wish to the icon. The Priest admits the icon exists, but says entering the altar is a severe sin, and tells the nuns the Devil is in Alina and the convent.\n\nAlina remains tied down to a board with chains and towels. The nuns witness a worsening in her condition and take her back to the hospital. There, the hospital staff find Alina is dead on arrival, and observe the wounds on her wrists and ankles from the restraints. The staff tells the nuns this constitutes homicide and threatens to call the police and media. An officer investigates the convent. Seeing the board Alina was tied to, the officer interprets it as a cross. The officer also says forcible restraint leading to death is a homicide. The Priest denies criminal intent, saying the restraints were to prevent self-harm, and invoking the analogy of a parent's right to force children to take medicine, though the officer replies Alina was not a child and the Priest was not her guardian. The nuns also cite Alina's strength as mysterious, but Voichița says Alina studied martial arts. The police take the Priest and the nuns who tied up Alina away, with Voichița choosing to go with them.\n\n\nThe screenplay was inspired by two novels by the writer Tatiana Niculescu Bran, documenting the Tanacu exorcism, in which a young member of a monastery in Moldavia died in 2005 after an exorcism ritual. Mungiu was inspired to make the film after seeing the stage version in New York while promoting \"4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days\".\n\nThe film production was made through the director's company, Mobra Films. It also received production support from Belgium and France. It received €273,100  from Romania's National Centre for Cinema and €400,000 from Eurimages. Filming took place from November 2011 to February 2012.\n\nThe film premiered in the main competition at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival, where it was screened on 19 May. At Cannes, Mungiu won the award for Best Screenplay, while Cristina Flutur and Cosmina Stratan shared the award for Best Actress. The film also won the Golden Ástor for Best Film at the 2012 Mar del Plata International Film Festival.\n\nDan Fainaru of \"Screen Daily\" wrote from Cannes: \"Spare, unadorned and strikingly shot, Cristian Mungiu's film is an unusual rendering of a Romanian exorcism case and is bound to split both audience and critical opinions, some considering it a major achievement and others blaming it for overlong pretentious sensationalism. But it will certainly not pass unnoticed.\"\n\n\"Sight & Sound\" film magazine listed the film at #8 on its list of best films of 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27004619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27004619", "title": "Bible fiction", "text": "Bible fiction\n\nThe term Bible fiction refers to works of fiction which use characters, settings and events taken from the Bible. The degree of fictionalization in these works varies and, although they are often written by Christians or Jews, this is not always the case.\n\nOriginally, these novels were consistent with true belief in the historicity of the Bible's narrative, replete with miracles, and God's explicit presence. Some of these works have been important and influential, and eventually there have appeared heterodox Bible novels that reflect modern, postmodern or realist influences and themes.\n\nAn early Bible novel that may still be the most influential is \"\" by Lew Wallace, and published by Harper & Brothers on November 12, 1880. It remained the best-selling American novel of all time, surpassing Harriet Beecher Stowe's \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" (1852) in sales and remaining at the top of the US all-time bestseller list until the publication of Margaret Mitchell's \"Gone with the Wind\" (1936). \"Ben-Hur\" is a bildungsroman and adventure novel that follows the tumultuous life of its protagonist, Judah Ben-Hur. He is a fictional Jewish noble from Jerusalem who suffers betrayal (by a boyhood friend) and consequently his enslavement and his family's imprisonment by the Romans. Concurrent with Judah's narrative is the developing Christian story, as Jesus and Judah are natives of the same region and about the same age. Judah survives his ordeal and becomes a famous soldier and charioteer, enabling him to avenge his misfortune. Judah's encounters with Jesus first during Judah's and then during Jesus' suffering lead to the Messiah's curing of Judah's sister and mother of leprosy and Judah's conversion to Christianity. There have been numerous film adaptations including the 1959 version starring Charlton Heston that won ten academy awards.\n\n\"The Robe\" (1942) by Lloyd C. Douglas was one of the best-selling novels of the 1940s and dramatizes the crucifixion of Jesus from the point of view of Marcellus Gallio, the Roman tribune who commands the garrison that carries out the crucifixion of Jesus. Marcellus winds up in custody of Jesus' robe and converts to Christianity because of his experiences interacting with the robe's magical powers. Like \"Ben-Hur\", \"The Robe\" was in 1953 adapted into an Academy Award winning film.\n\nIn the twentieth century, there began to appear heterodox Bible fiction. Nikos Kazantzakis' \"The Last Temptation of Christ\" (1960), caused a widespread outcry and appeared on many banned book lists for its dramatization of Jesus as wracked by temptations, beset by fear, doubts, depression, reluctance and lust. However, Jesus is nevertheless portrayed as a miracle-worker and the son of God who is resurrected following the crucifixion. Norman Mailer's \"The Gospel According to the Son\" (1997) is a retelling in Mailer's own words that adheres closely to the Gospel narrative including miracles and resurrection. This was noteworthy in part because Mailer was a Jew, not a Christian.\n\nPhilip Pullman's \"The Good Man Jesus and the Scoundrel Christ\" (2010) is a heavily allegorical retelling of the Christian story that uses postmodern techniques and is an evident polemic against Christianity. It retells the story of Jesus as if he were two people, brothers, \"Jesus\" and \"Christ,\" with contrasting personalities: Jesus is a moral and spiritual man, and his brother Christ is an ambitious character who wishes to hijack Jesus' biography and legacy to develop a myth that will be the foundation for a powerful and worldly Church.\n\nOther works are regarded as heterodox simply because they dramatize the Bible stories realistically, shorn of mythical, miraculous or magical elements. They may even include the transformation from real life events to mythology as part of the narrative. Realist Bible novels are typically semi-historical in that they develop the setting in Israel or Egypt or Rome or as the case may be—including the political and class and racial conflicts and urban and rural landscape imagery—with fidelity to known historical facts. As Robert Graves said of his novel \"King Jesus\" (1946), \"I undertake to my readers that every important element in my story is based on some tradition, however tenuous, and that I have taken more than ordinary pains to verify my historical background.\"\n\nRealist Bible novels employ in some way the narratives that comprise the canonical Biblical narrative, but shorn of miracles, or God's explicit presence. With respect to Jesus' biography, Jesus is portrayed as a man, usually a rebel against the wealthy classes (sometimes he himself is born into a privileged background and rebels against his own class), and the ruling Romans and their local client autocrats. Sometimes Jesus' biography is enhanced by sources external to the canonical gospels such as Josephus' chronicles, the Talmud, or non-canonical gospels, and the author's imagination.\n\nGraves' \"King Jesus\" develops the protagonist as, not the son of God, but rather as a philosopher with a legitimate claim to be the earthly king of the Jews as a descendant of Herod the Great, and the Old Testament's David. The novel has heterodox retellings of Biblical stories.\n\n\"Joseph and His Brothers\" (1943) is a novel by Thomas Mann that retells the familiar stories of Genesis, from Jacob to Joseph, setting it in the historical context of the Amarna Period. Mann considered it his greatest work.\n\n\"The Red Tent\" (1997) a novel by Anita Diamant, is a first-person narrative that tells the story of Dinah, daughter of Jacob and sister of Joseph. Diamont has broadened her character from her minor and brief role in the Bible. The book's title refers to the tent in which women of Jacob's tribe must, as dictated by ancient law, be quarantined while menstruating or giving birth. There the women find mutual support and encouragement from their mothers, sisters and aunts.\n\nPulitzer Prize winner Geraldine Brooks' \"The Secret Chord\" (2015) is narrated by Natan, the prophet who communicates God's directives to David. The scriptures are her primary sources for the plot, which includes all the well-known key events: Goliath, David's facility with the harp, kingdom building, Bathsheba, and so on. There are other characters fully developed from Brooks' imagination and portrayed through Natan's point of view.\n\n\"The Testament of Mary\" (2012) a novella by Colm Toibin, is a retelling of the Christian story from the point of view of Mary, the mother of Jesus. However, she does not believe Jesus is the Son of God – she knows he is a man – and she is contemptuous of the Gospel writers who visit her to solicit her cooperation and give her food and shelter. The themes or questions that the novel explores are narrative truth and fiction, feminism, loss, identity and corruption thereof, invasion of privacy, and worldly ambition. \"The Testament of Mary\" was adapted into a Broadway play.\n\n\"The Liars' Gospel\" (2012), by Jewish author Naomi Alderman, retells the Christ story from a Jewish perspective. Four witnesses to the key events, Mary, Judas, Caiaphas and Barabbas, are the narrators in four sections of the novel, and the story spans the period from Pompey's siege of Jerusalem in 63 BC through Titus's siege in 70 AD.\n\n\"John the Baptizer\" (2009), by Brooks Hansen and published by W. W. Norton & Company, is a novelized life of John the Baptist that dramatizes the man beneath the hagiography. According to Christian theology, John was merely a forerunner to Christ, but Hansen's portrait is strongly influenced by the Gnostic teachings that reveal John as a messianic figure at the center of a sect called the Mandeans, and more mature, rigorous and restrained than his younger and charismatic protégé Jesus.\n\n\"Logos\" (2015), a novel by John Neeleman and published by Homebound Publications, a small press, and winner of an Independent Publisher Book Awards gold medal for religious fiction and the Utah Book Award for fiction, is a bildungsroman that follows the life and development of the anonymous author of the original gospel. Jacob, a former temple priest in Jerusalem who has been rendered bereft by the Jewish wars and consequent destruction of his family and culture, is inspired by his own autobiography and Paul's mythmaking to create the canonical gospels' original narrative.\n\n\"The Gospel According to Lazarus\" (2019), a novel by Richard Zimler, expands upon the story of Lazarus of Bethany, who was raised from the dead in the Gospel of John. According to Zimler, one of the objectives of his novel was to return to the New Testament figures their Judaism, so in his narrative, Jesus is called Yeshua ben Yosef and Lazarus is called Eliezer ben Natan. Yeshua and Eliezer have been best friends from childhood, and Yeshua is characterized as a Merkabah mystic. The themes of the book include how we cope with a loss of faith, the terrible sacrifices we make for those we love, the transcendent meaning of Yeshua's mission, and how we go on after suffering a shattering trauma. \n\n"}
{"id": "52722230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52722230", "title": "Commenta in Ciceronis Rhetorica", "text": "Commenta in Ciceronis Rhetorica\n\nCommenta in Ciceronis Rhetorica is a work written by Gaius Marius Victorinus in the 4th century AD. It is the sole integral commentary on Cicero's \"De Inventione\" which survived. A new critical edition has been issued between 2013 and 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3970948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3970948", "title": "Contemporary architecture", "text": "Contemporary architecture\n\nContemporary architecture is the architecture of the 21st century. No single style is dominant; contemporary architects are working in a dozen different styles, from postmodernism and high-tech architecture to highly conceptual and expressive styles, resembling sculpture on an enormous scale. The different styles and approaches have in common the use of very advanced technology and modern building materials, such as Tube structure which allows construction of the buildings that are taller, lighter and stronger than those in the 20th century, and the use of new techniques of computer-aided design, which allow buildings to be designed and modeled on computers in three dimensions, and constructed with more precision and speed.\n\nContemporary buildings are designed to be noticed and to astonish. Some feature concrete structures wrapped in glass or aluminum screens, very asymmetric facades, and cantilevered sections which hang over the street. Skyscrapers twist, or break into crystal-like facets. Facades are designed to shimmer or change color at different times of day.\n\nWhereas the major monuments of modern architecture in the 20th century were mostly concentrated in the United States and western Europe, contemporary architecture is global; important new buildings have been built in China, Russia, Latin America, and particularly in the Gulf States of the Middle East; the Burj Khalifa in Dubai was the tallest building in the world in 2016, and the Shanghai Tower in China was the second-tallest.\n\nMost of the landmarks of contemporary architecture are the works of a small group of architects who work on an international scale. Many were designed by architects already famous in the late 20th century, including Mario Botta, Frank Gehry, Jean Nouvel, Norman Foster, Ieoh Ming Pei and Renzo Piano, while others are the work of a new generation born during or after World War II, including Zaha Hadid, Santiago Calatrava, Daniel Libeskind, Jacques Herzog, Pierre de Meuron, Rem Koolhaas, and Shigeru Ban. Other projects are the work of collectives of several architects, such as UNStudio and SANAA, or giant multinational agencies such as Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, with thirty associate architects and large teams of engineers and designers, and Gensler, with 5,000 employees in 16 countries.\n\nSome of the most striking and innovative works of contemporary architecture are art museums, which are often examples of sculptural architecture, and are the signature works of major architects. The Quadracci Pavilion of the Milwaukee Art Museum in Milwaukee, Wisconsin was designed by Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava. Its structure includes a movable, wing-like \"brise soleil\" that opens up for a wingspan of during the day, folding over the tall, arched structure at night or during bad weather.\n\nThe Walker Art Center in Minneapolis (2005), was designed by the Swiss architects Herzog and de Meuron, who designed the Tate Modern museum in London, and who won the Pritzker Architecture Prize, the most prestigious award in architecture, in 2001. It updates and provides a contrast to the austere earlier Modernist structure designed by Edward Larrabee Barnes by adding a five-story tower clad in panels of delicately sculpted gray aluminum, which change color with the changing light, connecting by a wide glass gallery leading to the older building. It also harmonizes with two stone churches opposite.\n\nThe Polish-born American architect Daniel Libeskind (born 1946) is one of the most prolific of contemporary museum architects, He was an academic before he began designing buildings, and was one of the early proponents of the architectural theory of Deconstructivism. The exterior of his Imperial War Museum North in Manchester, England (2002), has an exterior which resembles, depending upon the light and time of day, huge and broken pieces of earth or armor plates, and is said to symbolize the destruction of war. In 2006 Libeskind finished the Hamilton Building of the Denver Art Museum in Denver Colorado, composed of twenty sloping planes, none of them parallel or perpendicular, covered with 230,000 square feet of titanium panels. Inside, the walls of the galleries are all different, sloping and asymmetric. Libeskind completed another striking museum, the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto, Ontario, Canada (2007), also known as \"The Crystal\", a building whose form, resembles a shattered crystal. Libeskind's museums have been both admired and attacked by critics. While admiring many features of the Denver Art Museum, \"The New York Times\" architecture critic Nicolai Ouroussoff wrote that \"In a building of canted walls and asymmetrical rooms—tortured geometries generated purely by formal considerations — it is virtually impossible to enjoy the art.\"\n\nThe De Young Museum in San Francisco was designed by the Swiss architects Herzog & de Meuron. It opened in 2005, replacing an older structure that was badly damaged in an earthquake in 1989. The new museum was designed to blend with the natural landscape of the park, and to resist strong earthquakes. The building can move up to three feet (91 centimeters) on ball-bearing sliding plates and viscous fluid dampers that absorb kinetic energy.\n\nThe Zentrum Paul Klee by Renzo Piano is an art museum near Berne Switzerland located next to an autoroute in the Swiss countryside. The museum blends into the landscape by taking the form of three rolling hills, made of steel and glass. One building houses the gallery (which is almost entirely underground, to preserve the fragile drawings of Klee from the effects of sunlight) while the other two \"hills\" contain an education center and administrative offices.\n\nThe Centre Pompidou-Metz, in Metz, France, (2010), a branch of the Centre Pompidou museum of modern art in Paris, was designed by Shigeru Ban, a Japanese architect who won the Pritzker Prize for Architecture in 2014. The roof is the most dramatic feature of the building; it is a wide hexagon with a surface area of , composed of sixteen kilometres of glued laminated timber, that intersect to form hexagonal wooden units resembling the cane-work pattern of a Chinese hat. The roof's geometry is irregular, featuring curves and counter-curves over the entire building, and in particular the three exhibition galleries. The entire wooden structure is covered with a white fibreglass membrane and a coating of teflon, which protects from direct sunlight, but allows light to pass through.\n\nThe Louis Vuitton Foundation by Frank Gehry (2014) is gallery of contemporary art located adjacent to the Bois de Boulogne in Paris was opened in October 2014. Gehry described his architecture as inspired by the glass Grand Palais of the 1900 Paris Exposition and by the enormous glass greenhouses of the Jardin des Serres d'Auteuil near the park, built by Jean-Camille Formigé in 1894–95. Gehry had to work within strict height and volume restrictions, which required any part of the building over two stories to be made of glass. Because of the height limits, the building is low, sited in an artificial lake with water cascading beneath the building. The interior gallery structures are covered in a white fiber-reinforced concrete called Ductal. Similar in concept to Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall, the building is wrapped in curving glass panels resembling sails inflated by the wind. The glass \"Sails\" sails are made of 3,584 laminated glass panels, each one a different shape, specially curved for its place in the design. Inside the sails is a cluster of two-story towers containing 11 galleries of different sizes, with flower garden terraces, and rooftop spaces for displays.\n\nThe new Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City by Renzo Piano (2015) took a very different approach from the sculptural museums of Frank Gehry. The Whitney has an industrial-looking facade, and blends into the neighborhood. Michael Kimmelman, the architecture critic of \"The New York Times\" called the building a \"mishmash of styles\" but noted its similarity to Piano's Centre Pompidou in Paris, in the way that it mixed with the public spaces around it. \"Unlike so much big-name architecture,\" Kimmelman wrote, \"it's not some weirdly shaped trophy building into which all the practical stuff of a working museum must be fitted.\"\n\nThe San Francisco Museum of Modern Art is actually two buildings by different architects fit together; an earlier (1995) five-story postmodernist structure by the Swiss architect Mario Botta, to which has been joined a much larger ten-story white gallery by the Norwegian-based firm of Snøhetta (2016). The expanded building includes a green living wall of native plants in San Francisco; a free ground-floor gallery with tall glass walls that will place art on view to passersby, and glass skylights that flood the upper floors of offices (though not the galleries) with light. The facades clad are with lightweight panels made of Fibre-Reinforced Plastic. The critical reaction to the building was mixed. Roberta Smith of \"The New York Times\" said the building set a new standard for museums, and wrote: \"The new building’s rippling, sloping facade, rife with subtle curves and bulges, establishes a brilliant alternative to the straight-edged boxes of traditional modernism and the rebellion against them initiated by Frank Gehry, with his computer-inspired acrobatics.\" On the other hand, the critic of \"The Guardian\" of London compared the facade of the building to \"a gigantic meringue with a hint of Ikea.\"\n\nSantiago Calatrava designed the Auditorio de Tenerife he concert hall of Tenerife, the major city of the Canary Islands. with a shell-like wing of reinforced concrete.\nThe shell touches the ground at only two points.\n\nThe Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles (2003) is one of the major works by California architect Frank Gehry The exterior is stainless steel, formed like the sails of sailboats. The interior is in the Vineyard style, with the audience surrounding the stage. Gehry designed the dramatic array of pipes of the organ to complement the exterior style of the building.\n\nThe Casa da Musica in Porto, Portugal, by the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas (2005) is unique among concert halls in having two walls made entirely of glass. Nicolai Ouroussoff, architecture critic from \"The New York Times\", wrote \"The building's chiseled concrete form, resting on a carpet of polished stone, suggests a bomb about to explode. He declared that in its originality it was one of the most important concert halls built in the last 100 years\". ranking with the Walt Disney Concert Hall, in Los Angeles, and the Berliner Philharmonie.\n\nThe interior of the Copenhagen Opera House by Henning Larsen (2005) has an oak floor and maple walls to enhance hat acoustics. The royal box of the Queen, usually placed in the back, is next to stage.\n\nThe Schermerhorn Symphony Center in Nashville, Tennessee, by David M. Schwarz & Earl Swensson (2006), is an example of Neo-Classical architecture, borrowed literally from Roman and Greek models. It complements another Nashville landmark, a full-scale replica of the Parthenon.\n\nThe Philharmonie de Paris by French architect Jean Nouvel opened in 2015. The concert hall is at La Villette, in a park at the edge of Paris devoted to museums, a music school and other cultural institutions, where its unusual shape blends with the late 20th-century modern architecture. The exterior of the building takes the form of glittering irregular cliff cut by horizontal fins which reveal ar amp leading upwards The exterior is clad in thousands of small pieces of aluminum in three different colors, from white to gray to black. A path leads up the ramp to the top of building to a terrace with a dramatic view of the peripheric highway around the city. view of the neighborhood. The hall, like the Disney Hall in Los Angeles, has Vineyard style seating, with the audience surrounding the main stage. The seating can be re-arranged in different styles depending upon the type of music performed. When it opened, the architectural critic of the London Guardian compared it to a space ship that had crash-landed on the outskirts of the city.\n\nThe Elbphilharmonie concert hall in Hamburg, Germany, by Herzog & de Meuron, which was inaugurated in January, 2017, is the tallest inhabited building in the city, with a height of 110 meters (360 ft). The glass concert hall, which has 2100 seats in Vineyard style, is perched atop a former warehouse. One side of the concert hall building contains a hotel, while the structure on the other side above the concert hall contains forty five apartments. The concert hall in the middle is isolated from the sound of the other parts of the building by an \"eggshell\" of plaster and paper panels and insulation resembling feather pillows.\n\nThe skyscraper (usually defined as a building over 40 stories high) first appeared in Chicago in the 1890s, and was largely an American style in the mid 20th century, but in the 21st century skyscrapers were found in almost every large city on every continent. A new construction technology, the framed tube structure, was first developed in the United States in 1963 by structural engineer Fazlur Rahman Khan of Skimore, Owings and Merrill, which permitted the construction of super-tall buildings, which needed fewer interior walls, had more window space, and could better resist lateral forces, such as strong winds.\n\nThe Burj Khalifa in Dubai, United Arab Emirates is the tallest structure in the world, standing at . Construction of the Burj Khalifa began in 2004, with the exterior completed 5 years later in 2009. The primary structure is reinforced concrete. Burj Khalifa was designed by Adrian Smith, then of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill (SOM). He also was lead architect on the Jin Mao Tower, Pearl River Tower, and Trump International Hotel & Tower\n\nAdrian Smith and his own firm are the architects for the building which, in 2020, will replace the Burj-Khalifa as the tallest building in the world. The Jeddah Tower in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, is planned to be 1,008 meters, or (3,307 ft) tall, which will make it the tallest building in the world, and the first building to be more than one kilometer in height. Construction began in 2013, and the project is scheduled to be completed in 2020.\n\nAfter the destruction of the twin towers of the World Trade Center in the September 11 terrorist attacks, a new trade center was designed, with the main tower designed by David Childs of SOM. One World Trade Center, opened in 2015, is 1,776 feet (541 m). tall, making it the tallest building in the western hemisphere.\n\nIn London, one of the most notable contemporary landmarks is 30 St Mary Axe, popularly known as \"The Gherkin\", designed by Norman Foster (2004). It replaced the London Millennium Tower a much taller project that Foster earlier had proposed for the same site, which would have been the tallest building in Europe, but was so tall that it interfered with the flight pattern for Heathrow Airport. The steel framework of the Gherkin is integrated into the glass facade, giving it the colorful appearance of an elongated Russian easter egg,\n\nThe tallest building in Moscow is the Mercury City Tower in Moscow, designed by the American architect Frank Williams with Mikhail Posokhin and Gennadiy Sirota. Completed in 2012, with a height 338 meters, it surpassed The Shard in London when it was built as the tallest building in Europe.\n\nThe tallest building in China as of 2015 is the Shanghai Tower by the U.S. architectural and design firm of Gensler. It is 632-meters (2,073 ft) tall, with 127 floors, making it in 2016 the second-tallest building in the world. It also features the fastest elevators, which reach a speed of 20.5 meters (40 feet) per second or 74 kilometers an hour.\n\nMost skyscrapers are designed to express modernity; the most notable exception is the Abraj Al Bait, a complex of seven skyscraper hotels build by the government of Saudi Arabia to house pilgrims coming the holy shrine of Mecca. The centerpiece of the group is the Makkah Palace Clock Tower Hotel, with a gothic revival tower; it was the fourth-tallest building in the world in 2016, 581.1 meters (1,906 feet) high.\n\nA tendency in contemporary residential architecture, particularly in the rebuilding of older neighborhoods in large cities, is the luxury condominium tower, with very expensive apartments for sale designed by \"starchitects\", that is, internationally famous architects. These buildings frequently have little relationship with the architecture of their neighborhood, but stand like signature works of their architects.\n\nDaniel Libeskind (born 1946), was born in Poland and studied, taught and practiced architecture in the United States. In 2016 he was professor of architecture at UCLA in Los Angeles, He is known as much for his writings as his architecture; he was a founder of the movement called Deconstructivism. Best known for his museums, he also constructed a notable complex of residential apartment buildings in Singapore (2011) and The Ascent at Roebling's Bridge a 22-story apartment building in Covington, Kentucky (2008). The name of the latter is taken from the Roebling Suspension Bridge nearby on the Ohio River, but the structure of the building of luxury condominiums is extremely contemporary, sloping upward like the bridge cables to a peak, with a sharp edge and leaning slightly outward as the building rises.\n\nOne cheerful feature of contemporary residential architecture is color; Bernard Tschumi uses colored ceramic tiles on facades as well as unusual forms to make his buildings stand out. One example is the Blue Condominium in New York City (2007).\n\nAnother contemporary tendency is the conversion of industrial buildings into mixed residential communities. An example is the Gasometer in Vienna, a group of four massive brick gas production towers constructed at the end of the 19th century. They have been transformed into a mixed residential, office and commercial complex, completed between 1999 and 2001. Some residences are located inside the towers, and others are in new buildings attached to them. The upper floors are devoted to housing units the middle floors to offices, and the ground floors to entertainment and shopping malls. with sky bridges connecting the shopping mall levels. Each tower was built by a prominent architect the participants were Jean Nouvel, Coop Himmelblau, Manfred Wehldorn and Wilhelm Holzbauer. The historic exterior walls of the towers were preserved.\n\nThe Isbjerget, Danish for \"iceberg\", in Aarhus, Denmark (2013), is a group of four buildings with 210 apartments, both rented and owned, for residents with a range of incomes, located on the waterfront of a former industrial port in Denmark. The complex was designed by the Danish firms CEBRA and JDS Architects, French architect Louis Paillard and the Dutch firm SeARCH, and was financed by the Danish pension fund. The buildings are designed so that all the units, even those in the back, have a view of sea. The design and color of the buildings is inspired by icebergs. The buildings are clad in white terrazzo and have balconies made of blue glass.\n\nSurprisingly few contemporary churches were built between 2000 and 2017. Church architects, with a few exceptions, rarely showed the same freedom of expression as architects of museums, concert halls and other large buildings. The new cathedral for the City of Los Angeles California, was designed in a postmodern style by the Spanish architect Rafael Moneo. The previous cathedral had been serious damaged by an earthquake in 1995; The new building was specially designed to resist similar shocks.\n\nThe Northern Lights Cathedral, by the Denmark-based international firm of Schmidt, Hammer and Lassen, is located in Alta, Norway, one of northernmost cities in the world. Their other important works include the National Library of Denmark in Copenhagen.\n\nThe Vrindavan Chandrodaya Mandir is a Hindu Temple in Vrindivan, in Uttar Pradesh state in India, which was under construction at the end of 2016. The architects are InGenious Studio Pvt. Ltd. of Gurgaon and Quintessence Design Studio of Noida, in India, The entrance is in the traditional Nagara style of Indian architecture, while the tower is contemporary, with a glass facade up to the 70th floor. It is scheduled for completion in 2019. When completed, at 700 feet (213 meters or 70 floors) it will be the tallest religious structure in the world.\n\nOne of the most unusual contemporary churches is St. Jude's Anglican Cathedral in Iqaluit, the capital of Nunavut, the northernmost and least populous region of Canada. The church is built in the shape of an igloo, and serves the Inuktitut-speaking population of the region.\n\nAnothet unusual contemporary church is the Cardboard Cathedral in Christchurch, New Zealand designed by Japanese architect Shigeru Ban. It replaced the city's main cathedral, damaged by the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. The cathedral, which seats seven hundred persons, rises above the altar. Materials used include -diameter cardboard tubes, timber and steel. The roof is of polycarbon, with eight shipping containers forming the walls. \"coated with waterproof polyurethane and flame retardants\" with two-inch gaps between them so that light can filter inside.\n\nThe Swiss architects Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron designed the Allianz Arena in Munich, Germany, completed in 2005. It seats 75,000 spectators. The structure is wrapped in 2,874 ETFE-foil air panels that are kept inflated with dry air; each panel can be independently illuminated red, white, or blue. When illuminated, the stadium is visible from the Austrian Alps, fifty miles (80 kilometers) away.\n\nAmong the most prestigious projects and best-known projects in contemporary architecture are the stadiums for the Olympic Games, whose architects are chosen by highly publicized international competitions. The Beijing National Stadium, built for the 2008 Games and popularly known as the Bird's Nest because of its intricate exterior framework, was designed by the Swiss firm of Herzog & de Meuron, with Chinese architect Li Xinggang. It was designed to seat 91,000 spectators, and when constructed had a retractable roof, since removed. Like many contemporary buildings, it is actually two structures; a concrete bowl in which the spectators sit, surrounded at distance of fifty feet by a glass and steel steel framework. The exterior \"Bird's nest\" design was inspired by the pattern of Chinese ceramics. The stadium when completed was the largest enclosed space in the world, and was also the largest steel structure, with 26 kilometers of unwrapped steel.\n\nThe National Stadium in Kaohsiung, Taiwan by Japanese architect Toyo Ito (2009), is the form of a dragon. Its other distinctive feature is the array of solar panels that cover almost all of the exterior, providing most of the energy needed by the complex.\n\nGovernment buildings, once almost universally serious and sober looking, usually in variations of the school of neoclassical architecture, began to appear in more sculptural and even whimsical forms. One of the most dramatic examples was the London City Hall by Norman Foster (2002), the headquarters of the Greater London Authority. The unusual egg-like building design was intended to reduce the amount of exposed wall and to save energy, though the results have not entirely met expectations. One unusual feature is a helical stairway that spirals from the lobby up to the top of the building.\n\nSome new government buildings, such as the Parliament House, Valletta, Malta by Renzo Piano (2015) created controversy because of the contrast between their style and the historic architecture around them.\n\nMost new government buildings attempt to express solidity and seriousness; an exception is the Port Authority (\"Havenhuis\") in Antwerp, Belgium by Zaha Hadid (2016), where a ship-like structure of glass and steel on a white concrete perch seems to have landed atop the old port building constructed in 1922. The faceted glass structure also resembles a diamond, a symbol of Antwerp's role as the major market of diamonds in Europe. It was one of the last works of Hadid, who died in 2016.\n\nThe Dr Chau Chak Wing Building is a Business School building of the University of Technology Sydney in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, designed by Frank Gehry and completed in 2015. It is the first building in Australia designed by Gehry. The building's façade, made of 320,000 custom designed bricks, was described by one critic as the \"squashed brown paper bag\". Frank Gehry responded, \"Maybe it's a brown paper bag, but it's flexible on the inside, there's a lot of room for changes or movement.\"\n\nThe Siamese Twins Towers\" at the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile in Santiago, Chile are by the Chilean architect Alejandro Aravena (born 1967), completed in 2013. Aravena was the winner of the 2016 Pritzker Architecture Prize.\n\nThe Bibliotheca Alexandrina in Alexandria, Egypt, by the Norwegian firm of Snøhetta (2002), attempts to recreate, in modern form, the famous Alexandria Library of antiquity. The building, by the edge of the Mediterranean, has shelf space for eight million books, and a main reading room covering on eleven cascading levels. plus galleries for expositions and a planetarium. The main reading room is covered by a 32-meter-high glass-panelled roof, tilted out toward the sea like a sundial, and measuring some 160 m in diameter. The walls are of gray Aswan granite, carved with characters from 120 different human scripts.\n\nThe Seattle Central Library by Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas (2006) features a glass and steel wrapping around a stack of platforms. One unusual feature is a ramp with continuous bookshelves spiraling upward four floors.\n\nThe shopping malls are the elephants of commercial architecture, massive structures which combine retail stores, food outlets, and entertainment under a single roof. The largest in area (though not in retail space, since much of the mall is devoted to entertainment and public space) and perhaps most extravagant is the Dubai Mall in the United Arab Emirates, designed by DP Architects of Singapore and opened in (2008), which features, in addition to shops and restaurants, a gigantic walk-through aquarium and underwater zoo, plus a huge ice skating rink, and, just outside, the highest fountain and tallest building in the world.\n\nIn competition with shopping malls are downtown department stores and shops of individual designer brands. These buildings are traditionally designed to attract attention and to express the modernity of the products they sell. A notable example is the Selfridge's Department Store in Birmingham, England, a department store designed by the firm of Future Systems, founded in 1979 by Jan Kaplicky (1937–2009). The department store exterior is composed of undulating concrete in convex and concave forms, entirely covered with gleaming blue and white ceramic tiles.\n\nDesigner brand shops try make their logo visible and to set themselves apart from department stores. One notable example is the Louis Vuitton store in the Ginza district of Tokyo, with a new facade designed by Japanese studio of Jun Aoki and Associates with a patterned and perforated shell based on the brand's logo.\n\nBeijing Capital International Airport has been one of the fast-growing airports in the world. The new Terminal Three was designed by Norman Foster to handle the increased number of passengers coming for the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The terminal is the second largest in the world, after the Dulles Airport terminal near Washington, DC, and in 2008 was the sixth largest building in the world. The flat-roofed building looks like part of the runway from above.\n\nThe World Trade Center Transportation Hub is a station constructed beneath fountain and plaza honoring the victims of the 2001 terrorist attacks in 2001 in New York City, It was designed by Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava and opened in 2016. The above-ground structure, called the Oculus, has been compared to a bird about to take flight, and leads passengers down to the train station below the plaza. Michael Kimmelman, the architecture critic of \"The New York Times\" praised the soaring upward view inside the Oculus, but condemned what he called the buildings cost (the most expensive railroad station ever built) \"scale, monotony of materials and color, preening formalism and disregard for the gritty urban fabric.\"\n\nSeveral of the most prominent contemporary architects, including Norman Foster, Santiago Calatrava, Zaha Hadid, have turned their attention to designing bridges. One of the most remarkable examples of contemporary architecture and engineering is the Millau Viaduct in southern France, designed by architect Norman Foster and structural engineer Michel Virlogeux. The Millau Viaduct crosses the valley of the River Tarn and is part of the A75-A71 autoroute axis from Paris to Béziers and Montpellier. It was formally inaugurated on 14 December 2004. It is the tallest bridge in the world with one mast's summit at above the base of the structure.\n\nThe British-Iraqi architect Zaha Hadid constructed the Bridge Pavilion in Zaragoza. Spain for an international exposition there in 2008. The bridge, which also served as an exposition hall, is constructed of concrete reinforced with an external layer of fiberglass in different shades of gray. Since the event closed, the bridge has been used to host expositions and shows.\n\nSome smaller new bridges also offer simple but very innovative designs. The Gateshead Millennium Bridge in Newcastle upon Tyne, England, (2004) designed by Michel Virlogeux, to enable pedestrians and cyclists to cross the Tyne River, tilts to one side to permit boats to pass beneath.\n\nA growing tendency in the 21st century is eco-architecture, also termed sustainable architecture; buildings with features which conserve heat and energy, and sometimes produce their own energy through solar cells and windmills, and use solar heat to generate solar hot water. They also may be built with their own wastewater treatment and sometimes rainwater harvesting Some buildings integrate gardens green walls and green roofs into their structures. Other features of eco-architecture include the use of wood and recycled materials. There are several green building certification programs, the best-known of which is the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, or LEED rating, which measure the environmental impact of buildings.\n\nMany urban skyscrapers such as 30 Saint Mary Axe in London use a double skin of glass to conserve energy. The double skin and curved shape of the building creates differences in air pressure which help keep the building cooler in summer and warmer in winter, reducing the need for air conditioning.\n\nBedZED, designed by British architect Bill Dunster, is an entire community of eighty-two homes in Hackbridge, near London, built according to eco-architecture principles. Houses face south to take advantage of sunlight and have triple-glazed windows for insulation, a significant portion of energy is comes from solar panels, rainwater is collected and reused, and automobiles are discouraged. BedZED successfully reduced electricity usage by 45 percent and hot water usage by 81 percent of the borough average in 2010, though a successful system for producing heat by burning wood chips proved elusive and difficult.\n\nThe CaixaForum Madrid is a museum and cultural center in Paseo del Prado 36, Madrid, by the Swiss architects Herzog & de Meuron, built between 2001 and 2007, is an example of both green architecture and recycling. The main structure is an abandoned brick electric power station, with new floors constructed on top. The new floors are encased in oxidized cast iron, which has a rusty red color as the brick of the old power station below it. The building next to it features a green wall designed by French botanist Patrick Blanc. The red of the top floors contrasts with the plants on the wall, while the green wall harmonizes with the botanical garden next door to the cultural center.\n\nUnusual materials are sometimes recycled for use in eco-architecture; they include denim from old blue jeans for insulation, and panels made from paper flakes, baked earth, flax, sisal, or coconut, and particularly fast-growing bamboo. Lumber and stone from demolished buildings are often reclaimed and reused for flooring, while hardware, windows and other details from older buildings are reused.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2885780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2885780", "title": "Deaf West Theatre", "text": "Deaf West Theatre\n\nDeaf West Theatre Company is a North Hollywood, California based cultural institution. It is the first professional resident Sign Language Theatre in the western half of the United States.\n\nFounded in 1989 by Bob Hiltermann and Irene Oppenhiem, it was originally called “Fountain Theatre of the Deaf,” because their main venue was the Fountain Theatre located in Hollywood. During the first year the theater primarily taught workshops for dozens of deaf writers, directors and actors. Among the first attendees were Ed Waterstreet, CJ Jones, Anthony Natale, Terrylene Sacchetti, Richard Kendall and Phyllis French.\n\nIn 1990, the theater began to present short plays. Later, due to financial issues, Mr. Hiltermann announced that he was stepping down as the full-time Managing Director. Ed Waterstreet was chosen to take his place due to his experience with the “National Theater for the Deaf,” and he was named the theater’s first Artistic Director. They soon changed the name to “Deaf West Theater,” which was taken from the “Deaf Way Festival” in Washington D.C., where Bob Hiltermann had been the producer. Their first full-length play was “The Gin Game,” and starred Phyllis Frelich and Pat Graybill, and Bob Hiltermann starred in their second production, “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest.”\n\nIn 1992, Hiltermann left the company completely and Ed Waterstreet assumed the managing and artistic duties full-time. The company now has its own art-deco complex in the NoHo Arts District of North Hollywood, which includes a 90-seat theatre.\n\nDWT presents adaptations of classics, contemporary and original works. DWT productions are presented in American Sign Language with simultaneous translation in English.\n\nDeaf West Theatre brought a revival of Big River to the American Airlines Theatre on Broadway in 2003, as well as Spring Awakening in 2015.\n\n[1] Bob Hiltermann\n[2] Ed Waterstreet\n\n"}
{"id": "548773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548773", "title": "Domain name scams", "text": "Domain name scams\n\nDomain name scams are types of Intellectual property scams or confidence scams in which unscrupulous domain name registrars attempt to generate revenue by tricking businesses into buying, selling, listing or converting a domain name. The Office of Fair Trading in the United Kingdom has outlined two types of domain name scams which are \"Domain name registration scams\" and \"Domain name renewal scams\".\n\nDomain slamming (also known as unauthorized transfers or domain name registration scams) is a scam in which the offending domain name registrar attempts to trick domain owners into switching from their existing registrar to theirs, under the pretense that the customer is simply renewing their subscription to their current registrar. The term derives from telephone slamming.\n\nIn 2004, ICANN, the domain name governing body, made changes to its policy for transferring domains between registrars. They introduced a single protective measure that can help prevent unauthorized transfers: domain locking. Critics, although advising owners to apply the new feature, said that this was an \"unnecessary and customer-unfriendly change\".\n\nScam methods may operate in reverse, with a stranger (not the registrar) communicating an offer to buy a domain name from an unwary owner. The offer is not genuine, but intended to lure the owner into a false sales process, with the owner eventually pressed to send money in advance to the scammer for appraisal fees or other purported services. By mimicking aspects of the legitimate sales process and agencies, the scheme appears genuine in the early stages. The prospect of an easy, lucrative sale disarms the owner's normal suspicion of an unsolicited offer from a stranger with no earnest value. Since an actual transfer through the registration system is never involved, legal safeguards built into the official transfer process provide no protection.\n\nAlthough less common than domain slamming, another domain name scam primarily coming from registrars based in China involves sending domain owners an e-mail claiming that another company has just attempted to register a number of domains with them which contain the targeted domain owner's trademark or has many keyword similarities to their existing domain name. Often, these domains will be the same as the one(s) owned by the targeted individual but with different TLDs (top-level domains). The scammer will claim to have halted the bulk registration in order to protect the targeted individual's intellectual property, and if the email recipient doesn't recognize the entity attempting to register these domain names, that they should respond immediately to protect their trademark. If the scam target does respond by email or by phone, the scammer will then try to get them to register these domain names for several years upfront with the registrar running this scam.\n\nOther variations of this type of scam include registrars that target their own existing customers with similar made-up threats of another entity trying to register the same domain as theirs under different TLDs. As well, some domainers are known to search for available TLDs for already registered domains, then emailing the owner of the registered domain and offering to sell the unregistered variations to him/her for a marked up amount. If the target agrees to the deal, the domainer will then purchase the domains on the spot for the regular $7~20 registration fee and immediately sell it back to the victim for a few hundred dollars.\n\nThis section outlines reported domain scams as a timeline of events, showing how they have evolved, the companies involved and the outcome of complaints.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50473", "title": "Gargoyle", "text": "Gargoyle\n\nIn architecture, a gargoyle () is a carved or formed grotesque with a spout designed to convey water from a roof and away from the side of a building, thereby preventing rainwater from running down masonry walls and eroding the mortar between. Architects often used multiple gargoyles on a building to divide the flow of rainwater off the roof to minimize the potential damage from a rainstorm. A trough is cut in the back of the gargoyle and rainwater typically exits through the open mouth. Gargoyles are usually an elongated fantastical animal because the length of the gargoyle determines how far water is directed from the wall. When Gothic flying buttresses were used, aqueducts were sometimes cut into the buttress to divert water over the aisle walls.\n\nThe term originates from the French \"gargouille,\" which in English is likely to mean \"throat\" or is otherwise known as the \"gullet\"; cf. Latin \"gurgulio, gula, gargula\" (\"gullet\" or \"throat\") and similar words derived from the root \"gar,\" \"to swallow\", which represented the gurgling sound of water (e.g., Portuguese and Spanish \"garganta,\" \"throat\"; \"gárgola,\" \"gargoyle\"). It is also connected to the French verb \"gargariser,\" which shares a Latin root with the verb \"gargle\" and is likely imitative in origin. The Italian word for gargoyle is \"doccione\" or \"gronda sporgente,\" an architecturally precise phrase which means \"protruding gutter. (Italian also uses \"gargolla\" o \"garguglia\", when it has a grotesque shape)\n\nWhen not constructed as a waterspout and only serving an ornamental or artistic function, the correct term for such a sculpture is a grotesque, chimera, or boss. There are also regional variations, such as the hunky punk. Just as with bosses and chimeras, gargoyles are said to frighten off and protect those that it guards, such as a church, from any evil or harmful spirits.\n\nA French legend that sprang up around the name of St. Romanus (; fl. 631 – 641 AD), the former chancellor of the Merovingian king Clotaire II who was made bishop of Rouen, relates how he delivered the country around Rouen from a monster called \"Gargouille\" or \"Goji\". La Gargouille is said to have been the typical dragon with bat-like wings, a long neck, and the ability to breathe fire from its mouth. Multiple versions of the story are given, either that St. Romanus subdued the creature with a crucifix, or he captured the creature with the help of the only volunteer, a condemned man. In each, the monster is led back to Rouen and burned, but its head and neck would not burn due to being tempered by its own fire breath. The head was then mounted on the walls of the newly built church to scare off evil spirits, and used for protection. In commemoration of St. Romain, the Archbishops of Rouen were granted the right to set a prisoner free on the day that the reliquary of the saint was carried in procession (see details at Rouen).\n\nThe term \"gargoyle\" is most often applied to medieval work, but throughout all ages, some means of water diversion, when not conveyed in gutters, was adopted. In Ancient Egyptian architecture, gargoyles showed little variation, typically in the form of a lion's head. Similar lion-mouthed water spouts were also seen on Greek temples, carved or modelled in the marble or terracotta cymatium of the cornice. An excellent example of this are the 39 remaining lion-headed water spouts on the Temple of Zeus. Originally, it had 102 gargoyles or spouts, but due to the heavy weight (they were crafted from marble), many snapped off and had to be replaced.\n\nMany medieval cathedrals included gargoyles and chimeras. According to French architect and author Eugène Viollet-le-Duc, himself one of the great producers of gargoyles in the 19th century, the earliest known medieval gargoyles appear on Laon Cathedral c. 1200–1220. One of the more famous examples is the gargoyles of Notre Dame de Paris. Although most have grotesque features, the term gargoyle has come to include all types of images. Some gargoyles were depicted as monks, or combinations of real animals and people, many of which were humorous. Unusual animal mixtures, or chimeras, did not act as rainspouts and are more properly called grotesques. They serve as ornamentation but are now popularly called gargoyles.\n\nBoth ornamented and unornamented water spouts projecting from roofs at parapet level were a common device used to shed rainwater from buildings until the early 18th century. From that time, more and more buildings used drainpipes to carry the water from the guttering roof to the ground and only very few buildings using gargoyles were constructed. This was because some people found them frightening, and sometimes heavy ones fell off, causing damage. In 1724, the London Building Act passed by the Parliament of Great Britain made the use of downpipes compulsory on all new construction.\n\nThe primary use of the gargoyle was to illustrate evil through the form of the gargoyle, while another theory posits that grotesques in architecture were apotropaic devices. In the 12th century, before the use of gargoyles as rainspouts, St. Bernard of Clairvaux was famous for speaking out against gargoyles carved on the walls of his monastery's cloister:\nAccording to Lester Burbank Bridaham, writing in \"Gargoylaes, Chimeres and the Grotesque in French Gothic Sculpture\", \"There is much symbolism in the sculpture of the Gothic period; but we must be wary of reading in too much meaning.\"\nThe ancient Egyptians, Greeks, Etruscans, and Romans all used animal-shaped waterspouts. During the 12th Century, when gargoyles appeared in Europe, the Roman Catholic Church was growing stronger and converting many new people. Most of the population at this time was illiterate, so images were very important to convey ideas. Many early gargoyles depicted some version of a dragon, especially in France. In addition to serving as spouts for water, the gaping mouths of these gargoyles evoked the fearsome destructiveness of these legendary beasts, reminding the laity of the need for the church's protection.\n\nHuman qualities were sometimes ascribed to specific animals—that is, the animals were anthropomorphized. This was especially common for pagans, and using these ideas helped conversion to Catholicism. Some animals (such as the rhinoceros and the hippopotamus) were unknown in western Europe during the Middle Ages, so gargoyles of these species (such as the ones at Laon Cathedral) are modern gargoyles and therefore did not have symbolic meaning in Medieval times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42133610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42133610", "title": "Grazer Philosophische Studien", "text": "Grazer Philosophische Studien\n\nGrazer Philosophische Studien/International Journal for Analytic Philosophy is a peer-reviewed academic journal on philosophy published by Rodopi Publishers. It was established in 1975 by Rudolf Haller and is currently edited by Johannes L. Brandl (University of Salzburg), Marian David (University of Graz), Maria E. Reicher-Marek (University of Aachen), and Leopold Stubenberg (University of Notre Dame). At least two volumes of the journal appear each year, including special issues on selected topics. The journal covers all aspects of philosophy, especially analytical philosophy. Contributions are in English or German.\n\n"}
{"id": "1613987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1613987", "title": "Hairspray (1988 film)", "text": "Hairspray (1988 film)\n\nHairspray is a 1988 American dance comedy film written and directed by John Waters, and starring Ricki Lake, Divine, Debbie Harry, Sonny Bono, Jerry Stiller, Leslie Ann Powers, Colleen Fitzpatrick, and Michael St. Gerard. \"Hairspray\" was a dramatic departure from Waters's earlier works, with a much broader intended audience. \"Hairspray\"s PG is the mildest rating a Waters film has received; most of his previous films were rated X by the MPAA. Set in 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, the film revolves around self-proclaimed \"pleasantly plump\" teenager Tracy Turnblad as she pursues stardom as a dancer on a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation.\n\n\"Hairspray\" was only a moderate success upon its initial theatrical release, earning a modest gross of $8 million. However, it managed to attract a larger audience on home video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic. Most critics praised the film, although some were displeased with the overall campiness. The film ranks #444 on \"Empire\" magazine's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.\n\nIn 2002, the film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the same name, which won eight Tony Awards, including Best Musical in 2003. A second film version of \"Hairspray\", an adaptation of the stage musical, was also released by New Line Cinema in 2007, which included many changes of scripted items from the original.\n\nIn Baltimore, Maryland in the year 1962, Tracy Turnblad and her best friend, Penny Pingleton, audition for \"The Corny Collins Show\", a popular Baltimore teenage dance show (based on the real-life \"Buddy Deane Show\"). Penny is too nervous and stumbles over her answers, and another girl, Nadine, is cut for being black (the show has a \"Negro Day\" on the last Thursday of every month, she is told). However, despite being overweight, Tracy is a strong enough dancer to become a regular on the show, infuriating the show's reigning queen, Amber Von Tussle, a mean, privileged, beautiful high school classmate whose racist parents, Velma and Franklin Von Tussle, own Tilted Acres Amusement Park and have banned African Americans from going there. Tracy steals Amber's boyfriend, Link Larkin, and competes against her for the title of Miss Auto Show 1963, fueling Amber's hatred of her.\n\nTracy's growing confidence leads to her being hired as a plus-size model for the Hefty Hideaway clothing store owned by Mr. Pinky. She is also inspired to bleach, tease, and rat her big hair into styles popular in the 1960s. At school, a teacher brands her hairdo a \"hair-don't\" and sends her to the principal's office, from which Tracy is sent to special education classes, where she meets several black classmates who have been put there to hold them back academically. The students introduce Tracy to Motormouth Maybelle, an R&B record shop owner and host of the monthly \"Negro Day\" on \"The Corny Collins Show\". They teach Tracy, Penny, and Link dance moves and Penny begins an interracial romance with Motormouth Maybelle's son, Seaweed. This horrifies Penny's parents, Prudence and Paddy, who imprison their daughter in her bedroom and try to brainwash her into dating white boys and oppose integration with the help of Dr. Frederickson, a quack psychiatrist. Seaweed later helps her break out of the house and run away. It is implied that she will never return, as she has finally broken free from her parents.\n\nUndeterred, Tracy uses her newfound fame to champion the cause of racial integration with the help of Motormouth Maybelle, Corny Collins, his assistant Tammy, and her own agoraphobic, slightly overbearing, overweight mother, Edna. After a race riot at Tilted Acres results in Tracy's arrest, the Von Tussles grow more defiant in their opposition to racial integration. They plot to sabotage the Miss Auto Show 1963 pageant with a bomb hidden in Velma's towering bouffant wig. The plan literally blows up in Velma's face when the bomb detonates prematurely, and the Von Tussles are dragged away by the Baltimore police. Tracy, who had won the crown but was disqualified for being in reform school, dethrones Amber after the governor of Maryland pardons her; Tracy then shows up at the pageant, integrates the show, and encourages everyone to dance.\n\n\n\n\nJohn Waters wrote the screenplay under the title of \"White Lipstick\", with the story loosely based on real events. The \"Corny Collins Show\" is based on the real-life \"Buddy Deane Show\", a local dance party program which pre-empted Dick Clark's \"American Bandstand\" in the Baltimore area during the 1950s and early 1960s. Waters had previously written about \"The Buddy Deane Show\" in his 1983 book \"Crackpot: The Obsessions of John Waters.\"\n\nPrincipal photography took place in and around the Baltimore area during the summer of 1987. The school scenes were filmed at Perry Hall High School with set locations including the library, a first-floor English class, and the principal's office. In the scene set in the principal's office, the Harry Dorsey Gough (see Perry Hall Mansion) coat-of-arms that once hung in the main lobby can be seen through the doorway. The scenes set at Tilted Acres amusement park were filmed at Dorney Park in Allentown, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe film was Divine's final film; he died three weeks after the film's release. \"Hairspray\" was his only film with Waters in which he didn't play the lead. Originally, Divine was considered to play both Tracy Turnblad and her mother Edna. Executives from New Line Cinema, the film's distributor, discouraged this concept, and it was eventually dropped. Instead Divine played Edna Turnblad and Arvin Hodgepile, racist TV station owner.\n\nA handful of scenes were cut while in post-production, some of which explained certain elements seen in the film.\n\nThe first scene occurs before Tracy and Penny go the Parkville VFW record hop. Tracy is required to start her first shift working in the Hardy-Har Joke Shop. But after managing to scare away all her customers she is excused to go to the hop. The joke shop customers are still listed in the end credits of the final cut.\n\nAnother involves Tracy skipping school, stealing shoes from the Etta Gown Shop, and breaking into the Von Tussles' home, using Amber's hair bleach to bleach her hair in Amber's sink, thus explaining Tracy's change of hair color later in the film.\n\nAnother deleted scene involved live roaches crawling out of Tracy's hair at Tilted Acres. The actual filmed scene of the cockroach crawling out of Tracy's hair is cut, but still included is Amber's horrified reaction. However, she is presumed to be joking and/or lying. When discussing his decision to ultimately cut the scene, Waters explained \"Bob Shaye, the head of New Line, probably correctly, said, 'This doesn't work. What is this, a Buñuel movie?' [...] And he was probably right.\"\n\nA further excised scene sees Penny and Seaweed trying to take refuge at Nadine's home after Penny's escape.\n\nThe final deleted scene was a musical number which involved the teens performing an obscure 1960s dance called \"The Stupidity\" at the auto show just prior to Tracy being released from reform school, but again, Waters ultimately decided it wasn't appropriate, stating, \"[B]asically, I thought, you know, you don't want your leading man to look stupid right in the big finale.\"\n\n\"Hairspray\" received three stars from critics Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert.\n\nThe film currently holds a 98% \"fresh\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 41 reviews with an average rating of 7.8/10. It is Waters' second-highest-rated film (behind \"Multiple Maniacs\") on the website. The critical consensus states that \"\"Hairspray\" is perhaps John Waters' most accessible film, and as such, it's a gently subversive slice of retro hilarity.\" John Waters wrote that his all-time favorite review of \"Hairspray\" was David Edelstein's in \"Rolling Stone\": \"A family movie both the Bradys and the Mansons could adore\".\n\n\"Hairspray\" opened on February 26, 1988 in 79 North American theaters, where it grossed 577,287 in its opening weekend. On March 11, it expanded to 227 theaters, where it grossed $966,672 from March 11–13. It ended its theatrical run with $8,271,108.\n\nThe film was nominated for six Independent Spirit Awards, and the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nIn mid-2002, Margo Lion teamed with writers Marc Shaiman and Thomas Meehan to turn \"Hairspray\" into a Broadway musical production. The show opened on August 15, 2002 starring Marissa Jaret Winokur as Tracy and Harvey Fierstein as Edna. The show went on to win eight Tony Awards, including Best Musical, in 2003. The show closed on January 4, 2009.\n\nIn 2006, New Line Cinema joined forces with Adam Shankman to adapt the Broadway show into a movie musical. The film was released July 20, 2007, starring John Travolta as Edna, Michelle Pfeiffer as Velma, Christopher Walken as Wilbur, Amanda Bynes as Penny Pingleton, Brittany Snow as Amber Von Tussle, Queen Latifah as Motormouth Maybelle, James Marsden as Corny, Zac Efron as Link, and newcomer Nikki Blonsky as Tracy. The film had a $75 million budget and earned over $200 million worldwide.\n\nNBC aired a special television event of the acclaimed musical on December 7, 2016, starring Harvey Fierstein as Edna, Ariana Grande as Penny Pingleton, Kristin Chenoweth as Velma, Martin Short as Wilbur, Dove Cameron as Amber Von Tussle, Jennifer Hudson as Motormouth Maybelle, Derek Hough as Corny, Garrett Clayton as Link, and newcomer Maddie Baillio as Tracy. It was well received by critics and was seen by 9.05 million viewers, with a ratings share of 2.3 in the 18–49 demographic, and a 5.9 overnight household rating.\n\nThe soundtrack was released in 1988 by MCA Records. The album featured one original song by Rachel Sweet and eleven other songs mostly from the early 1960s by Gene Pitney, Toussaint McCall and The Ikettes, among others. Two songs, \"You Don't Own Me\" and \"Mama Didn't Lie\", came out in 1964 and 1963 respectively.\n\nOther songs appear in the film, but are not on the soundtrack, due to licensing restrictions, because many of the songs listed were on Cameo Parkway Records, a recording label owned by Allen Klein.\n\n\n\"Hairspray\" was issued for the first time on VHS and LaserDisc in 1989 by RCA/Columbia Pictures Home Video. New Line reissued the film on VHS in 1996.\n\nThe film was released on DVD by New Line in 2002. The disc included an audio commentary by John Waters and Ricki Lake and a theatrical trailer. It was released on Blu-ray on March 4, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3423304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3423304", "title": "Heal the World", "text": "Heal the World\n\n\"Heal the World\" is a song recorded by American recording artist Michael Jackson from his eighth studio album, \"Dangerous\" (1991). It was released in 1992 as the fifth single from the album. It was written and composed by Jackson, and produced by Jackson and Bruce Swedien.\n\nIn a 2001 Internet chat with fans, Jackson said that \"Heal the World\" is the song he was most proud to have created. He also created the \"Heal the World Foundation\", a charitable organization which was designed to improve the lives of children. The organization was also meant to teach children how to help others. This concept of 'betterment for all' would become a centerpiece for the Dangerous World Tour. In the documentary \"Living with Michael Jackson\", Jackson said he created the song in his \"Giving Tree\" at Neverland Ranch.\n\nAn ensemble performance of \"We Are the World\" and \"Heal the World\" closed Jackson's memorial service at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on July 7, 2009. The song was performed as rehearsed by Jackson at the venue just weeks earlier, in preparation for his planned \"This Is It\" concerts in London along with \"Dirty Diana\". R&B singer Ciara sang the song as a tribute to Jackson at the 2009 BET Awards.\n\nThe song was played at the funeral of James Bulger, and Jackson also donated the song to be used as the anthem for the charity the James Bulger Red Balloon Centre, a school for children to go to if they are being bullied or have learning difficulties.\n\nThis song is written in the key of A major, and it spans from E4 to C#6. It has a tempo of 80 beats per minute.\n\nThe song reached number two in the UK Singles Chart in December 1992, kept off the number one position by Whitney Houston's \"I Will Always Love You\". It peaked number 27 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine called this song \"middle-class soft.\" David Browne of \"Entertainment Weekly\" praised the song: \"And when his voice isn't competing with drum machines, it has rarely sounded stronger-achingly pure on \"Heal the World,\"\" \"Rolling Stone\"s Alan Light was not satisfied, calling it \"a Hallmark-card knockoff of \"We Are the World.\"\n\nThe music video (directed by Joe Pytka) features children living in countries suffering from unrest, especially Burundi. It is also one of only a handful of Michael Jackson's videos not to feature Jackson himself, the others being \"Cry\", \"HIStory\" and \"Man in the Mirror\". (The clips for \"HIStory\" and \"Man in the Mirror\" only feature Michael Jackson in archival footage). The version of the video included on \"\" and \"Michael Jackson's Vision\" contains an introductory video that features a speech from Jackson taken from the special \"spoken word\" version of the track. This version was not included on \"Video Greatest Hits – HIStory\" featuring the music video. Jackson performed the song in the Super Bowl XXVII halftime show with a 35,000 person flash card performance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25212770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25212770", "title": "I Spit on Your Grave (2010 film)", "text": "I Spit on Your Grave (2010 film)\n\nI Spit on Your Grave is a 2010 American rape-and-revenge horror film and a remake of the controversial 1978 cult film \"of the same name\" (originally known as \"Day of the Woman\"). It was directed by Steven R. Monroe, and stars Sarah Butler, Chad Lindberg, Daniel Franzese, Rodney Eastman, Jeff Branson, and Andrew Howard.\n\nNovelist Jennifer Hills travels from New York City to Louisiana to work on her next book in privacy. When she becomes lost while searching for the cabin she has rented, she stops for gas and to ask for directions. The attendant Johnny gives her directions and tries to flirt with her, to no avail.\n\nAround the cabin, Jennifer spends the following days writing, tanning, hiking, smoking marijuana and drinking alcohol. When the cabin's plumbing becomes clogged, it is fixed by Matthew, a stuttering plumber who has social interaction disability. She rewards him with an abrupt kiss of gratitude. Matthew then tells Johnny and his friends Andy and Stanley about his visit. Johnny, whose ego was bruised after the gas station incident, decide that Jennifer is snobbish and needs to be \"taught a lesson\".\n\nThat night, the four men sneak into Jennifer's cabin and assault her, although Matthew refuses to participate. She escapes into the woods and bumps into Sheriff Storch and Earl, the owner of the cabin she is renting. Storch takes Jennifer back to the cabin, but when he finds her drugs and alcohol, he assaults her too. When Johnny, Matthew, Andy, and Stanley return, all of the men take turns raping her — including the reluctant Matthew. Stanley records everything with his video camera. Afterward, just as Storch is about to shoot her, Jennifer falls in the water and escapes. When they fail to find her, Storch tells the others to destroy any evidence of their crimes, including Stanley's videotape.\n\nJennifer begins to stalk her rapists to learn details of their lives. Stanley tells Andy and Johnny that his camera has been stolen — along with the tape of their assault on Jennifer, which had never been destroyed. Later that night, Johnny hears noises outside his house and finds evidence that suggests Matthew had been hiding in the yard. Storch intercepts a tape sent to his wife and confronts Stanley, Andy, and Johnny to find out who sent it. Johnny and Andy suspect Matthew, but they don't know where he is. Afterward, when they go hunting, Storch kills Earl with his shotgun, saying that he is taking care of \"loose ends\".\n\nMatthew returns to the cabin, where he finds Jennifer. He attempts to apologize to her, but she tells him it's not enough and strangles him. She next captures Stanley in a bear trap, smears fish guts in his face, then uses his camera to record crows pecking out his eyes. Jennifer then drowns Andy and burns his face horribly in a lye bathtub. Next, she uses pliers to pull out Johnny's teeth and a pair of garden shears to cut off his penis, leaving him to bleed to death.\n\nAfter killing Johnny, Jennifer visits Storch's family, posing as their daughter's new teacher. She takes the daughter to the park and, when Storch tracks her there, Jennifer knocks him unconscious. When he wakes up, Jennifer anally rapes him with his shotgun and reminds him that she was just as innocent as his own daughter. She attaches one end of a string to the trigger and the other end to the wrist of the unconscious Matthew, who is seated in front of Storch. When Matthew wakes up, his movements trigger the shotgun, which fires a round that tears through Storch's body and blows apart his face before hitting Matthew in the chest, leaving both men dead. Sitting outside, Jennifer hears the gunshot and smiles coldly.\n\n\nPrincipal photography began on November 2, 2009, under Steven R. Monroe's direction. It was distributed by CineTel, and produced by the company's president and CEO Paul Hertzberg. Lisa Hansen, Jeff Klein, Alan Ostroff, Gary Needle, and Meir Zarchi (director of the original) served as executive producers. Location filming took place in Louisiana. The film was written by Stuart Morse, based on Zarchi's screenplay.\n\nCineTel Films planned a 2010 worldwide theatrical release. The film was part of the Texas Frightmare Weekend on May 1, 2010 in the Sheraton Grand Hotel in Irving, Texas, and part of the Film4 Frightfest on August 29, 2010. The Canadian unrated version premiered at the Fantasia Festival on July 20, 2010. The complete cast and Meir Zarchi, director of the original, were present. An unrated version was followed in limited release on October 8, 2010, in the United States. Coincidentally, another unrated horror film, \"Hatchet II\", opened a week beforehand.\n\nThe film is distributed in the United States, Canada, Australia and the UK by Anchor Bay Entertainment. The DVD and Blu-ray were released in the United States on February 8, 2011. The DVD includes an audio commentary by director Steven R. Monroe and producer Lisa Hansen, 11 deleted scenes and teasers and trailers.\n\nThe DVD was banned in New Zealand, just before its April release.\n\nCritical reaction to the film has been generally negative, with a 33% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. On Metacritic the film was assigned a rating of 27% based on reviews from 14 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\". Roger Ebert gave the film a zero-star rating (the same one he'd given the original) and described it as the \"despicable remake of the despicable 1978 film\". He claimed that it added \"a phony sense of moral equivalency\", stating \"If I rape you, I have committed a crime. If you kill me, you have committed another one. The ideal outcome would be two people unharmed in the first place.\" While he allowed that the movie was made \"professionally,\" as opposed to the original version that was devoid of any kind of skills or artistry, he considered this largely in the service of the truly offensive material, the rape scenes, later summarizing \"this [version] is more offensive, because it lingers lovingly and at greater length on realistic verbal, psychological and physical violence against the woman, and then reduces her 'revenge' to cartoonish horror-flick impossibilities.\"\n\nMick LaSalle of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" wrote, \"In addition to all the obvious things that are disgusting about this movie, \"I Spit on Your Grave\" is trying to get us to hate each other. Hate it instead. It makes more sense and the hatred is much more deserved.\" Critic Andrew O'Hehir also denounced the notion that the film has a message, writing that it \"just piles imaginary atrocities on top of real ones, and then halfheartedly claims that it means something. Well, it doesn't.\"\n\nSome support for the film in mainstream press came from \"The New York Times\", which wrote, \"Female-empowerment fantasy or just plain prurience, 'Grave' is extremely efficient grindhouse.\" V.A. Musetto, from the \"New York Post\", also offered some support for the film, stating, \"If you can handle it, see it.\"\n\nLike the original, the film did find limited cult support. \"Fangoria\" magazine wrote that \"I Spit on Your Grave\" \"...is just as raw and upsetting in its onscreen brutality as the original. Perhaps more so, since the acting is significantly better this time around\".\n\nA sequel, \"I Spit on Your Grave 2\", directed by Steven R. Monroe, was produced and was given a limited theatrical release on September 20, 2013. The film's plot concerns a young aspiring model named Katie (Jemma Dallender) who accepts an offer to have photos taken for her modeling portfolio. Unfortunately for Katie, little does she know the event turns into a nightmare of torture, rape and kidnapping. The story has a rape-revenge plot similar to the first film.\n\nIn March 2015 Anchor Bay Entertainment announced \"\", the third installment of the franchise. Sarah Butler returned to her role as Jennifer Hills and R.D. Braunstein as the director of the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "1036980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036980", "title": "Intellectual Reserve", "text": "Intellectual Reserve\n\nIntellectual Reserve, Inc (IRI) is a non-profit corporation based in Salt Lake City, Utah, United States. Founded in 1997, it is wholly owned and operated by the Corporation of the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). It holds the church's intellectual property, including copyrights and trademarks.\n\nIRI owns over 60 trademarks associated with the church.\n\nIn some countries, \"Mormon\" and some phrases including the term are registered trademarks owned by IRI.\n\nIn 2002, the LDS Church applied for a trademark in the United States on \"Mormon\" as applied to religious services; however, the United States Patent and Trademark Office rejected the application, stating that the term \"Mormon\" was too generic and is popularly understood as referring to a particular kind of church, similar to \"Presbyterian\" or \"Methodist\", rather than a service mark. The application was abandoned as of August 22, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "25733011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25733011", "title": "It Girls", "text": "It Girls\n\nIt Girls is a feature documentary film directed by Robin Melanie Leacock that aired on the Women's Entertainment channel on April 2 and 7 2002. It features wealthy socialites including Casey Johnson, Elisabeth Kieselstein-Cord and Nicky Hilton, as well as appearances by Diane Von Furstenberg, Marisa Berenson and other women. It was filmed in Manhattan during Fashion Week. The film's premise is that anyone can be an it girl. In the documentary, von Furstenberg says \"It's really about being a forever girl!\"\n\nRoger Friedman, writing for Fox News, said that this was a \"numbingly mesmerizing documentary\" in which \"You have rarely seen such a collection of vacuous and tiresome people\". He complains that \"the 'It Girls' of 2002... are an inarticulate and alarming lot of long legged blondes without a thought in their heads\".\n\nMary Robbins, in the \"New York Times\", wrote that the film suffered from poor timing, because the bad economic conditions at the time had \"made expensive parties, and girls who were famous for nothing, less and less appealing.\"\nA reviewer for the \"Baltimore Sun\" wrote: \"As if high school social castes weren't traumatic enough. This \"documentary\" allegedly attempts to explore the new It Girl, but really reminds us that the hierarchy we like to think we left behind in high school is alive and kicking in the adult world.\" and \"Even with its occasional snarky snippets, the show can be hard to endure for those of us among the proletariat. But after a while, the documentary begins to resemble a drama, and the Hilton girls and their beautiful friends become mere characters in a nouveau Restoration comedy -- School for Scandal meets Page Six.\"\n"}
{"id": "411719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411719", "title": "Kathryn M. Drennan", "text": "Kathryn M. Drennan\n\nKathryn M. Drennan is an American writer, having worked for Carl Sagan on the mini-series \"\" in the early 1980s and for Michael Piller, producer at the time for \"\", in the early 1990s. She also contributed articles to several magazines, including \"Starlog\" and \"Twilight Zone Magazine\". She was married to J. Michael Straczynski, creator of \"Babylon 5\", and wrote articles about Rod Serling's \"Night Gallery\" for \"Twilight Zone Magazine\" together with him. She wrote one script during \"Babylon 5\"'s first season, \"By Any Means Necessary\" as well as the prose \"Babylon 5\" novel, \"To Dream in the City of Sorrows\". She also wrote scripts for two other shows Straczynski worked on, \"\" and \"The Real Ghostbusters\".\n\nShe met J. Michael Straczynski while they were both at San Diego State University. They moved to Los Angeles on April 1, 1981. They married in 1983, separated in 2002, and were divorced in 2008.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46519937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46519937", "title": "Keep Louisville Weird", "text": "Keep Louisville Weird\n\n\"Keep Louisville Weird\" is a popular slogan adopted by the Louisville Independent Business Alliance (LIBA) that appears on bumper stickers as well as numerous signs and public buildings throughout Louisville, Kentucky and its surrounding metro area, especially in The Highlands district. A variation of the slogan, \"Keep Highland Weird\", is also used in the Highlands district. It originated from the \"Keep Austin Weird\" slogan and is intended to promote local businesses, though it has evolved into an all-encompassing slogan that secondarily promotes individuality, expressionism, local art, as well as atypical lifestyle choices and leisure activities. The slogan frequently inspires articles and debate that attempt to quantify the exact level to which Louisville is considered weird, unusual or eccentric.\n\nThe Louisville Independent Business Alliance is among at least 85 community organizations affiliated with the American Independent Business Alliance, a national non-profit that supports and connects pro-local community-based organizations.\n\nThe slogan was created by the Louisville Independent Business Alliance with the intention of supporting local businesses and small business owners. It was based on the Keep Austin Weird organization and slogan in Austin, Texas, and the Keep Portland Weird slogan used in Portland, Oregon, and was brought to Louisville shortly after around 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "693962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=693962", "title": "Leipzig Opera", "text": "Leipzig Opera\n\nThe Leipzig Opera (in German: ) is an opera house and opera company located at the Augustusplatz in Leipzig, Germany.\n\nThe Leipzig Opera traces its establishment to the year 1693, making it the third oldest opera venue in Europe after La Fenice (Venice, Italy) and the Hamburg State Opera (Hamburg, Germany). The director of many of those early operas at the original was Telemann.\n\nThe Leipzig Opera does not have its own opera orchestra – the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra performs as its orchestra. This relationship began in 1766 with performances of the Singspiel \" by Johann Adam Hiller.\n\nThe previous theater (the \") was inaugurated on 28 January 1868 with \"Jubilee Overture\" by Carl Maria von Weber and the overture for \"Iphigénie en Aulide\" by Gluck and Goethe's play \"Iphigenia in Tauris\". From 1886 to 1888, Gustav Mahler was the second conductor; Arthur Nikisch was his superior. During an air raid in the night of 3 December 1943, part of the bombing of Leipzig in World War II, the theater was destroyed, as were all Leipzig's theatres.\n\nConstruction of the modern opera house began in 1956. The theater was inaugurated on 8 October 1960 with a performance of Wagner's \"Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg\".\n\nSince 2009, Ulf Schirmer is the \"Generalmusikdirektor\" (General Music Director, or GMD); he was elected artistic director in 2011 for a five-year term.\n\n"}
{"id": "1157501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1157501", "title": "Leningrad Codex", "text": "Leningrad Codex\n\nThe Leningrad Codex (Latin: \"Codex Leningradensis\", the \"codex of Leningrad\") is the oldest \"complete\" manuscript of the Hebrew Bible in Hebrew, using the Masoretic Text and Tiberian vocalization. It is dated 1008 CE (or possibly 1009) according to its colophon. The Aleppo Codex, against which the Leningrad Codex was corrected, is several decades older, but parts of it have been missing since 1947, making the Leningrad Codex the oldest complete codex of the Tiberian mesorah that has survived intact to this day.\n\nIn modern times, the Leningrad Codex is significant as the Hebrew text reproduced in \"Biblia Hebraica\" (1937) and \"Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia\" (1977). It also serves as a primary source for the recovery of details in the missing parts of the Aleppo Codex.\n\nThe Leningrad Codex (a codex is a handwritten book as opposed to a scroll) is so named because it has been housed at the National Library of Russia in Saint Petersburg since 1863. In 1924, after the Russian Revolution, Petrograd (formerly Saint Petersburg) was renamed Leningrad, and, because the codex was used as the basic text for the Biblia Hebraica since 1937, it became internationally known as the \"Leningrad Codex\". Although in 1991, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the city's original name was restored to St Petersburg, the National Library of Russia requested that \"Leningrad\" be retained in the name of the codex. Nonetheless, the Codex is occasionally referred to as the Codex Petersburgensis or Petropolitanus, or the St. Petersburg Codex. This is ambiguous as, since 1876, these appellations refer to a different biblical codex (MS. Heb B 3) which is even older (916 CE), but contains only the later Prophets.\n\nThe biblical text as found in the codex contains the Hebrew letter-text along with Tiberian vowels and cantillation signs. In addition, there are masoretic notes in the margins. There are also various technical supplements dealing with textual and linguistic details, many of which are painted in geometrical forms. The codex is written on parchment and bound in leather.\n\nThe Leningrad Codex, in extraordinarily pristine condition after a millennium, also provides an example of medieval Jewish art. Sixteen of the pages contain decorative geometric patterns that illuminate passages from the text. The carpet page shows a star with the names of the scribes on the edges and a blessing written in the middle.\n\nThe order of the books in the Leningrad Codex follows the Tiberian textual tradition, which is also that of the later tradition of Sephardic biblical manuscripts. This order for the books differs markedly from that of most printed Hebrew bibles for the books of the Ketuvim. In the Leningrad Codex, the order of the Ketuvim is: Chronicles, Psalms, Job, Proverbs, Ruth, Song of Songs, Ecclesiastes, Lamentations, Esther, Daniel, Ezra-Nehemiah. The full order of the books is given below.\n\nAccording to its colophon, the codex was copied in Cairo from manuscripts written by Aaron ben Moses ben Asher. It has been claimed to be a product of the Asher scriptorium itself; however, there is no evidence that Asher ever saw it. Unusual for a masoretic codex, the same man (Samuel ben Jacob) wrote the consonants, the vowels and the Masoretic notes. In its vocalization system (vowel points and cantillation) it is considered by scholars to be the most faithful representative of ben Asher's tradition apart from the Aleppo Codex (edited by ben Asher himself). Its letter-text is not superb, however, and contradicts its own masoretic apparatus in many hundreds of places. There are numerous alterations and erasures, and it was suggested by Moshe Goshen-Gottstein that an existing text not following Asher's rules was heavily amended so as to make it conform to these rules.\n\nThe codex is now preserved in the National Library of Russia, accessioned as \"Firkovich B 19 A\". Its former owner, the Crimean Karaite collector Abraham Firkovich, left no indication in his writings where he had acquired the codex, which was taken to Odessa in 1838 and later transferred to the Imperial Library in St Petersburg.\n\nIn 1935, the Leningrad Codex was lent to the Old Testament Seminar of the University of Leipzig for two years while Paul E. Kahle supervised its transcription for the Hebrew text of the third edition of \"Biblia Hebraica\" (BHK), published in Stuttgart, 1937. The codex was also used for \"Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia\" (BHS) in 1977, and is being used for Biblia Hebraica Quinta (BHQ).\n\nAs an original work by Tiberian masoretes, the Leningrad Codex was older by several centuries than the other Hebrew manuscripts which had been used for all previous editions of printed Hebrew bibles until Biblia Hebraica.\n\nThe Westminster Leningrad Codex is an online digital version of the Leningrad Codex maintained by the J. Alan Groves Center for Advanced Biblical Research at the Westminster Theological Seminary. This is a verified version of the Michigan-Claremont text, transcribed from BHS at the University of Michigan in 1981-1982 under the direction of H. Van Dyke Parunak (of the University of Michigan) and Richard E. Whitaker (of the Institute for Antiquity and Christianity, Claremont Graduate University) with funding from the Packard Foundation and the University of Michigan, with further proofreading and corrections. The online version includes transcription notes and tools for analyzing syntax.\n\nThe Leningrad Codex also served as the basis for two important modern Jewish editions of the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh):\n\nFor minute masoretic details, however, Israeli and Jewish scholars have shown a marked preference for modern Hebrew editions based upon the Aleppo Codex. These editions use the Leningrad Codex as the most important source (but not the only one) for the reconstruction of parts of the Aleppo Codex that have been missing since 1947.\n\nAs explained in the Contents section above, this is different from most modern Hebrew bibles:\n\nThe Torah:\n\nThe \"Nevi'im\":\n\nThe \"Ketuvim\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53280209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53280209", "title": "Lil Miquela", "text": "Lil Miquela\n\nMiquela Sousa, better known as Lil Miquela, is a fictional character created by Trevor McFedries and Sara Decou as a digital art project. Miquela is an Instagram model and music artist claiming to be from Downey, California.\n\nThe project began in 2016 as an Instagram profile. By April 2018, the account had amassed more than a million followers by portraying the lifestyle of an Instagram it-girl over social media. The account also details a fictional narrative which presents Miquela as a sentient robot in conflict with other digital projects created by McFedries and Decou.\n\nIn August 2017, Miquela released her first single, \"Not Mine\". Her pivot into a music has been compared to virtual musicians Gorillaz and Hatsune Miku.\n\nMiquela’s first Instagram post was made on April 22, 2016. The project garnered both intrigue and criticism for the character's digital appearance with fans and online commenters oscillating between positing that Miquela is an art project or a social experiment carried out by a real unidentified woman. Miquela was rumored to be a marketing gimmick for \"The Sims\". British model Emily Bador was rumored to be Miquela, fans citing the character's abundance of freckles. Bador openly acknowledged the physical similarity.\n\nMiquela has been pictured with a number of celebrities including Diplo, How to Dress Well, killerandasweetthang founder Eileen Kelly, Molly Soda, Nile Rogers, and Samantha Urbani. She has been interviewed and or profiled in a number of publications including Refinery29, Vogue, Buzzfeed, v-files, Nylon, the Guardian, Business of Fashion, The Cut, and BBC.com. As well as by Shane Dawson, YouTube celebrity, in a phone interview. She appeared on the cover of High Snobiety in April 2018. In February 2018, Miquela did an Instagram takeover for Prada as part of Milan Fashion Week.\n\nIn April 2018, a trans-media story began to play out on Miquela's Instagram involving @Blawko22, and @BermudaIsBae, two other virtual Instagram accounts who are presented as \"sentient robots.\" The story suggests that two organizations are responsible for the creation of these sentient robots. In the narrative, fictional brand Brud created Miquela and \"Blawko22\" while competing fictional brand Cain Intelligence created \"BermudaIsBae\".\n\nOn April 17, all of Miquela's Instagram posts were removed. \"BermudaIsBae\" was purported to have hacked Miquela's account. The two online personas then began posting pictures together as Miquela worked to reclaim the original account. After reclaiming the account, Miquela posted a series of notes saying that she is a robot and claiming sentience.\n\nMiquela has released several singles since her debut with \"Not Mine,\" including \"You Should be Alone,\" \"Over You,\" and a collaboration with Baauer titled \"Hate Me.\" Her musical style is characterized by the use of auto-tune and trap-influenced production. Her music has been released on YouTube and Spotify. Miquela's sound is purportedly based off of the soundtrack to Sam Raimi's 1981 cult classic, Evil Dead. \n"}
{"id": "53715253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53715253", "title": "List of DCA drum corps", "text": "List of DCA drum corps\n\nThe following contains an incomplete list of drum corps competing as members of the Drum Corps Associates (DCA).\n\nBelow is a list of active DCA member corps .\nBelow is an incomplete list of previous member corps who remain active in some capacity.\nBelow is an incomplete list of previous members corps who are inactive or are suspended from competition.\n"}
{"id": "2267743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2267743", "title": "List of aestheticians", "text": "List of aestheticians\n\nThis is a list of aestheticians (or aestheticists), philosophers of art, and aesthetes. That is, people who theorize about the nature of art and beauty.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11751920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11751920", "title": "List of comics awards", "text": "List of comics awards\n\nThis is a list of comics awards from around the world. This list includes awards given out for achievements in cartooning, comic books, comic strips and graphic novels. Some works in comics are also eligible for, and in some instances have won literary awards.\n\n\nThe following is a timeline of notable U.S. comics awards that feature multiple categories. Awards voted on by professionals are in shades of blue; fan awards are in shades of red. (The Ignatz Award is a mixture, as the nominees are selected by professionals, but the winners are determined by the attendees of that year's Small Press Expo.)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12591245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12591245", "title": "List of works by Erich Mendelsohn", "text": "List of works by Erich Mendelsohn\n\nList of works by the German architect Erich Mendelsohn.\n\n"}
{"id": "646598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=646598", "title": "Literary language", "text": "Literary language\n\nA literary language is the form of a language used in the writing of the language. It is typically a dialect or standardised form of the language. It can sometimes differ noticeably from the various spoken forms of the language, but difference between literary and non-literary forms is greater in some languages than in others. Where there is a strong divergence between a written form and the spoken vernacular, the language is said to exhibit diglossia.\n\nA related concept is liturgical writing, which is the language or form of language used in the liturgy of some religions.\n\nFor much of its history, there has been a distinction in the English language between an elevated literary language and a colloquial language. After the Norman conquest of England, for instance, Latin and French displaced English as the official and literary languages, and standard literary English did not emerge until the end of the Middle Ages. At this time and into the Renaissance, the practice of aureation (the introduction of terms from classical languages, often through poetry) was an important part of the reclamation of status for the English language, and many historically aureate terms are now part of general common usage. Modern English no longer has quite the same distinction between literary and colloquial registers.\n\nEnglish has been used as a literary language in countries that were formerly part of the British Empire, for instance in India up to the present day, Malaysia in the early 20th century and Nigeria, where English remains the official language.\n\nModern Standard Arabic is the contemporary literary and standard register of Classical Arabic used in writing across all Arabic-speaking countries and any governing body with Arabic as an official language. Many western scholars distinguish two varieties: the Classical Arabic of the Qur'an and early Islamic (7th to 9th centuries) literature; and Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), the standard language in use today. The modern standard language is closely based on the Classical language, and most Arabs consider the two varieties to be two registers of the same language. Literary Arabic or classical Arabic is the official language of all Arab countries and is the only form of Arabic taught in schools at all stages .\n\nThe sociolinguistic situation of Arabic in modern times provides a prime example of the linguistic phenomenon of diglossia—the use of two distinct varieties of the same language, usually in different social contexts. Educated Arabic speakers are usually able to communicate in MSA in formal situations. This diglossic situation facilitates code-switching in which a speaker switches back and forth between the two varieties of the language, sometimes even within the same sentence. In instances in which highly educated Arabic-speakers of different nationalities engage in conversation but find their dialects mutually unintelligible (e.g. a Moroccan speaking with a Kuwaiti), they are able to code switch into MSA for the sake of communication.\n\nThe Aramaic language has been diglossic for much of its history, with many different literary standards serving as the \"high\" liturgical languages, including Syriac language, Jewish Palestinian Aramaic, Jewish Babylonian Aramaic, Samaritan Aramaic language and Mandaic language, while the vernacular Neo-Aramaic languages serve as the vernacular language spoken by the common people like Northeastern Neo-Aramaic (Assyrian Neo-Aramaic, Bohtan Neo-Aramaic, Chaldean Neo-Aramaic, Hértevin language, Koy Sanjaq Syriac language, Senaya language), Western Neo-Aramaic, Northeastern Neo-Aramaic, Central Neo-Aramaic (Mlahsô language, Turoyo language), Neo-Mandaic, Hulaulá language, Lishana Deni, Lishanid Noshan, Lishán Didán, Betanure Jewish Neo-Aramaic, and Barzani Jewish Neo-Aramaic.\n\nThe Armenian language was a diglossic language for much of its history, with Classical Armenian serving as the \"high\" literary standard and liturgical language, and the Western Armenian and Eastern Armenian dialects serving as the vernacular language of the Armenian people. Western Armenian and Eastern Armenian were eventually standardized into their own literary forms.\n\nStandard Bengali has two forms:\n\n\nGrammatically, the two forms are identical, and differing forms, such as verb conjugations, are easily converted from one form to another. However, the vocabulary is quite different from one form to the other and must be learned separately. Among the works of Rabindranath Tagore are examples of both shadhubhasha (especially among his earlier works) and chôlitôbhasha (especially among his later works). The national anthem of India was originally written in the shadhubhasha form of Bengali.\n\nLiterary Chinese, \"Wényánwén\" (文言文), \"Literary Writing\", is the form of written Chinese used from the end of the Han dynasty to the early 20th century when it was replaced by written vernacular Chinese, or \"Baihua\" (白話) spoken according to Standard Mandarin pronunciation. Literary Chinese continually diverged from Classical Chinese as the dialects of China became more disparate and as the Classical written language became less representative of the spoken language. At the same time, Literary Chinese was based largely upon the Classical language, and writers frequently borrowed Classical language into their literary writings. Literary Chinese therefore shows a great deal of similarity to Classical Chinese, even though the similarity decreased over the centuries.\n\nStarting from early 20th century, written vernacular Chinese have become a standard for Chinese writing which is mostly aligned with a standardized form of Mandarin Chinese, which however mean there are divergence between written vernacular Chinese against other Chinese variants like Cantonese, Shanghainese, Hokkien and Sichuanese. Some of these variants have their own literary form but none of them are being used in formal register.\n\nThe Finnish language has a literary variant, literary Finnish, and a spoken variant, spoken Finnish. Both are considered a form of non-dialectal standard language, and are used throughout the country. Literary Finnish is a consciously created fusion of dialects for use as a literary language, which is rarely spoken at all, being confined to writing and official speeches.\n\nThe Georgian language has a literary liturgical form, the Old Georgian language, while the vernacular spoken varieties are the Georgian dialects and other related Kartvelian languages like Svan language, Mingrelian language, and Laz language.\n\nGerman differentiates between \"Hochdeutsch\"/\"Standarddeutsch\" (Standard German) and \"Umgangssprache\" (colloquial language). Amongst the differences is the regular use of the genitive case or the simple past tense \"Präteritum\" in written language. In colloquial German genitive phrases (\"des Tages\") are frequently replaced with a construction of \"von\" + dative object (\"von dem Tag\") - comparable to English \"the dog's tail\" vs. \"the tail of the dog\" - likewise the \"Präteritum\" (\"ich ging\") can be substituted with the perfect (\"ich bin gegangen\") to a certain degree. Nevertheless, the use of neither the \"Präteritum\" nor especially the genitive case is totally unusual in colloquial language, just quite rare, yet also depending on a region's dialect and/or the grade of education of the speaker. People of higher education use the genitive more regularly in colloquial language and the use of perfect instead of \"Präteritum\" is especially common in southern Germany, where the \"Präteritum\" is considered somewhat declamatory. The German \"Konjunktiv I / II\" (\"er habe\" / \"er hätte\") is also used more regularly in written form being replaced by the conditional (\"er würde geben\") in colloquial language, although in some southern German dialects the \"Konjunktiv II\" is used more often. Generally there is a continuum between more dialectical varieties to more standard varieties in German, while colloquial German nonetheless tends to increase analytic elements at the expense of synthetic elements.\n\nFrom the early nineteenth century until the mid-20th century, \"Katharevousa\", a form of Greek, was used for literary purposes. In later years, \"Katharevousa\" was used only for official and formal purposes (such as politics, letters, official documents, and newscasting) while \"Dhimotiki\", ‘demotic’ or popular Greek, was the daily language. This created a diglossic situation until in 1976 \"Dhimotiki\" was made the official language.\n\nDuring the revival of the Hebrew language, spoken and literary Hebrew were revived separately, causing a dispersion between the two. The dispersion started to narrow sometime after the two movements merged, but substantial differences between the two still exist until nowadays.\n\nWhen Italy was unified, in 1861, Italian existed mainly as a literary language. Different languages were spoken throughout the Italian Peninsula, many of which were Romance languages which had developed in every region, due to the political fragmentation of Italy. Now, it is the standard language of Italy.\n\nUntil the late 1940s, the prominent literary language in Japan was the Classical Japanese language (文語 \"Bungo\"), which is based on the language spoken in Heian period (Late Old Japanese) and is different from the contemporary Japanese language in grammar and some vocabulary. It still has relevance for historians, literary scholars, and lawyers (many Japanese laws that survived World War II are still written in \"bungo\", although there are ongoing efforts to modernize their language). Bungo grammar and vocabulary are occasionally used in modern Japanese for effect, and fixed form poetries like Haiku and Tanka are still mainly written in this form.\n\nIn the Meiji period, some authors started to use the colloquial form of the language in their literature. Following the government policy after the World War II, the standard form of contemporary Japanese language is used for most literature published since the 1950s. The standard language is based on the colloquial language in Tokyo area, and its literary stylistics in polite form differs little from its formal speech. Notable characteristics of literary language in contemporary Japanese would include more frequent use of Chinese origin words, less use of expressions against prescriptive grammar such as \"ら抜き言葉\", and use of non-polite normal form (\"-だ/-である\") stylistics that are rarely used in colloquial language.\n\nIn the Javanese language, alphabet characters derived from the alphabets used to write Sanskrit, no longer in ordinary use, are used in literary words as a mark of respect.\n\nKannada exhibits a strong diglossia, like Tamil, also characterised by three styles: a classical literary style modelled on the ancient language, a modern literary and formal style, and a modern colloquial form. These styles shade into each other, forming a diglossic continuum.\n\nThe formal style is generally used in formal writing and speech. It is, for example, the language of textbooks, of much of Kannada literature and of public speaking and debate. Novels, even popular ones, will use the literary style for all description and narration and use the colloquial form only for dialogue, if they use it at all. In recent times, however, the modern colloquial form has been making inroads into areas that have traditionally been considered the province of the modern literary style: for instance most cinema, theatre and popular entertainment on television and radio.\n\nThere are also many dialects of Kannada, one major dialect being \"Dharwad Kannada\" of North Karnataka.\n\nClassical Latin was the literary register used in writing from 75 BC to the 3rd century AD, while Vulgar Latin was the common, spoken variety used across the Roman Empire. The Latin brought by Roman soldiers to Gaul, Iberia, or Dacia was not identical to the Latin of Cicero, and differed from it in vocabulary, syntax, and grammar. Some literary works with low-register language from the Classical Latin period give a glimpse into the world of early Vulgar Latin. The works of Plautus and Terence, being comedies with many characters who were slaves, preserve some early basilectal Latin features, as does the recorded speech of the freedmen in the \"Cena Trimalchionis\" by Petronius Arbiter. At the third Council of Tours in 813, priests were ordered to preach in the vernacular language—either in the \"rustica lingua romanica\" (Vulgar Latin), or in the Germanic vernaculars—since the common people could no longer understand formal Latin.\n\nMacedonian (/ˌmæsɪˈdoʊniən/; македонски, tr. makedonski, pronounced [maˈkɛdɔnski ˈjazik] (About this sound listen)) is a South Slavic language spoken as a first language by around two million people, principally in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian diaspora, with a smaller number of speakers throughout the transnational region of Macedonia. It is the official language of the Republic of Macedonia and a recognized minority language in parts of Albania, Romania and Serbia.\n\nThe Malay language exists in a Classical variety, a modern standard variety and several vernacular dialects.\n\nMaltese has a variety of dialects (including the Żejtun dialect, Qormi dialect and Gozitan amongst others) that co-exist alongside Standard Maltese. Literary Maltese, unlike Standard Maltese, features a preponderance of Semitic vocabulary and grammatical patterns; however, this traditional separation between Semitic and Romance influences in Maltese literature (especially Maltese poetry and Catholic liturgy on the island) is changing.\n\nStandard Manchu was based on the language spoken by the Jianzhou Jurchens during Nurhaci's time, while other unwritten Manchu dialects such as that of Aigun and Sanjiazi were also spoken in addition to the related Xibe language.\n\nThe Classical Mongolian language was the high register used for religious and official purposes, while the various Mongolian dialects served as the low register, like Khalkha Mongolian, Chakhar Mongolian, Khorchin Mongolian, Kharchin Mongolian, Baarin Mongolian, Ordos Mongolian and the Buryat language. The Tibetan Buddhist canon was translated into Classical Mongolian. The Oirat Mongols who spoke the Oirat Mongol language and dialects like Kalmyk language or Torgut Oirat used a separate standard written with the Clear script.\n\nThe Mongolian language, based on Khalkha Mongolian, now serves as the high register in Mongolia itself while in Inner Mongolia a standard Mongolian based on Chakhar Mongolian serves as the high register for all Mongols in China. The Buryat language, which is seen by some as part of the Mongolian language, has been turned into a standard literary form itself in Russia.\n\nN'Ko is a literary language devised by Solomana Kante in 1949 as a writing system for the Mande languages of West Africa. It blends the principal elements of the mutually unintelligible Manding languages. The movement promoting N'Ko literacy was instrumental in shaping the Maninka cultural identity in Guinea, and has also strengthened the Mande identity in other parts of West Africa. N'Ko publications include a translation of the Qur'an, a variety of textbooks on subjects such as physics and geography, poetic and philosophical works, descriptions of traditional medicine, a dictionary, and several local newspapers.\n\nPersian or New Persian has been used continually as the literary language of Iran and Afghanistan, as well as India and Central Asia, for over a millennium. The language written today remains essentially the same as that used by Ferdowsi despite variant colloquial dialects and forms. Until the 20th century, every educated person from the Bosphorus to the Bay of Bengal would be expected to know some Persian. It was the second major vehicle after Arabic in transmitting Islamic culture and has a particularly prominent place in Sufism. It remains a in active use in the Indian subcontinent among traditionally educated Muslim, although its former position has been occupied to a great degree by Urdu. There are prominent Persian writers from Modern Turkey, such as Rumi and Uzbekistan, such as Jami. The corpus of literary writing in Persian from the Indian subcontinent is greater than that of Iran and Central Asia.\n\nSlavonic-Serbian (\"slavenosrpski\") was the literary language of Serbs in the Habsburg Monarchy used from the mid-18th century to 1825. It was a linguistic blend of Church Slavonic of the Russian recension, vernacular Serbian (Štokavian dialect), and Russian. At the beginning of the 19th century, it was severely attacked by Vuk Karadžić and his followers, whose reformatory efforts formed modern literary Serbian based on the popular language, known as Serbo-Croatian.\n\nTagalog was the basis of the Filipino language; both share the same vocabulary and grammatical system and are mutually intelligible. However, there is a significant political and social history that underlies the reasons for differentiating between Tagalog and Filipino.\n\nModern Tagalog is derived from Archaic Tagalog, which was likely spoken during the Classical period, it was the language of the Mai State, Tondo Dynasty (according to the Laguna Copperplate Inscription) and southern Luzon. It was written using Baybayin, a syllabary which is a member of the Brahmic family, before the Spanish Romanised the alphabet beginning in the late 15th century. Tagalog was also the spoken language of the 1896 Philippine Revolution.\n\nThe 1987 Constitution maintains that Filipino is the country’s national language and one of two official languages, alongside English. Today, Filipino is considered the proper term for the language of the Philippines, especially by Filipino-speakers who are not of Tagalog origin, with many referring to the Filipino language as “Tagalog-based\". The language is taught in schools throughout the country and is the official language of education and business. Native Tagalog-speakers meanwhile comprise one of the largest linguistic and cultural groups of the Philippines, numbering an estimated 14 million.\n\nTamil exhibits a strong diglossia, characterised by three styles: a classical literary style modelled on the ancient language, a modern literary and formal style and a modern colloquial form. These styles shade into each other, forming a diglossic continuum.\n\nThe modern literary style is generally used in formal writing and speech. It is, for example, the language of textbooks, of much of Tamil literature and of public speaking and debate. Novels, even popular ones, will use the literary style for all description and narration and use the colloquial form only for dialogue, if they use it at all. In recent times, however, the modern colloquial form has been making inroads into areas that have traditionally been considered the province of the modern literary style: for instance most cinema, theatre and popular entertainment on television and radio.\n\nClassical Tibetan was the high register used universally by all Tibetans while the various mutually unintelligible Tibetic languages serve as the low register vernacular, like Central Tibetan language in Ü-Tsang (Tibet proper), Khams Tibetan in Kham, Amdo Tibetan in Amdo, Ladakhi language in Ladakh and Dzongkha in Bhutan. Classical Tibetan was used for official and religious purposes, such as in Tibetan Buddhist religious texts like the Tibetan Buddhist canon and taught and learned in monasteries and schools in Tibetan Buddhist regions.\n\nNow, Standard Tibetan, based on the Lhasa dialect, serves as the high register in China. In Bhutan, the Tibetan Dzongkha language has been standardised and replaced Classical Tibetan for official purposes and education, in Ladakh, the standard official language learned are now the unrelated languages Hindi-Urdu and English, and in Baltistan, the Tibetan Balti language serves as the low register while the unrelated Urdu language is the official language.\n\nThe Turkic Chagatai language served as the high register literary standard for Central Asian Turkic peoples, while the vernacular low register languages were the Uzbek language and Eastern Turki (Modern Uyghur). The Soviet Union abolished Chagatai as the literary standard and had the Uzbek language standardized as a literary language for, and the Taranchi dialect of Ili was chosen as the literary standard for Modern Uyghur, while other dialects like the Kashgar and Turpan dialects continue to be spoken.\n\nStandard Yoruba is the literary form of the Yoruba language of West Africa, the standard variety learnt at school and that spoken by newsreaders on the radio. Standard Yoruba has its origin in the 1850s, when Samuel A. Crowther, native Yoruba and the first African Anglican Bishop in Nigeria, published a Yoruba grammar and started his translation of the Bible. Though for a large part based on the Ọyọ and Ibadan dialects, Standard Yoruba incorporates several features from other dialects. Additionally, it has some features peculiar to itself only, for example the simplified vowel harmony system, as well as foreign structures, such as calques from English which originated in early translations of religious works. The first novel in the Yorùbá language was \"Ogboju Ode ninu Igbo Irunmale\" (\"The Forest of A Thousand Demons\"), written in 1938 by Chief Daniel O. Fagunwa (1903–1963). Other writers in the Yorùbá language include: Senator Afolabi Olabimtan (1932–1992) and Akinwunmi Isola.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18823", "title": "Mary Pickford", "text": "Mary Pickford\n\nGladys Louise Smith (April 8, 1892 – May 29, 1979), known professionally as Mary Pickford, was a Canadian-born film actress and producer. With a career spanning 50 years, she was a co-founder of both the Pickford-Fairbanks Studio (along with Douglas Fairbanks) and, later, the United Artists film studio (with Fairbanks, Charlie Chaplin and D.W. Griffith), and one of the original 36 founders of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences who present the yearly \"Oscar\" award ceremony.\n\nPickford was known in her prime as \"America's Sweetheart\" and the \"girl with the curls\". She was one of the Canadian pioneers in early Hollywood and a significant figure in the development of film acting. Pickford was one of the earliest stars to be billed under her own name, and was one of the most popular actresses of the 1910s and 1920s, earning the nickname \"Queen of the Movies\". She is credited as having defined the ingénue archetype in cinema.\n\nShe was awarded the second ever Academy Award for Best Actress for her first sound-film role in \"Coquette\" (1929) and also received an honorary Academy Award in 1976. In consideration of her contributions to American cinema, the American Film Institute ranked Pickford as 24th in its 1999 list of greatest female stars of classic Hollywood Cinema.\n\nMary Pickford was born Gladys Louise Smith in 1892 (although she would later claim 1893 or 1894 as her year of birth) at 211 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario. Her father, John Charles Smith, was the son of English Methodist immigrants, and worked a variety of odd jobs. Her mother, Charlotte Hennessey, was of Irish Catholic descent and worked for a time as a seamstress. She had two younger siblings, Charlotte, called \"Lottie\" (born 1893), and John Charles, called \"Jack\" (born 1896), who also became actors. To please her husband's relatives, Pickford's mother baptized her children as Methodists, the religion of their father. John Charles Smith was an alcoholic; he abandoned the family and died on February 11, 1898, from a fatal blood clot caused by a workplace accident when he was a purser with Niagara Steamship.\n\nWhen Gladys was age four, her household was under infectious quarantine, a public health measure. Their devoutly Catholic maternal grandmother (Catherine Faeley Hennessey) asked a visiting Roman Catholic priest to baptize the children. Pickford was at this time baptized as Gladys Marie Smith.\n\nAfter being widowed, in 1899, Charlotte Smith began taking in boarders, one of whom was a Mr. Murphy, the theatrical stage manager for Cummings Stock Company, who soon suggested that Gladys, then age seven, and Lotti, then age six, be given two small theatrical roles — Gladys portrayed a girl and a boy, while Lottie was cast in a silent part in the company's production of \"The Silver King\" at Toronto's Princess Theatre (destroyed by fire in 1915, rebuilt, demolished in 1931), while their mother played the organ. Pickford subsequently acted in many melodramas with Toronto's Valentine Stock Company, finally playing the major child role in its version of \"The Silver King\". She capped her short career in Toronto with the starring role of Little Eva the Valentine production of \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", adapted from the 1852 novel.\n\nBy the early 1900s, theatre had become a family enterprise. Gladys, her mother and two younger siblings toured the United States by rail, performing in third-rate companies and plays. After six impoverished years, Pickford allowed one more summer to land a leading role on Broadway, planning to quit acting if she failed. In 1906 Gladys, Lottie and Jack Smith supported singer Chauncey Olcott on Broadway in \"Edmund Burke\". Gladys finally landed a supporting role in a 1907 Broadway play, \"The Warrens of Virginia\". The play was written by William C. deMille, whose brother, Cecil, appeared in the cast. David Belasco, the producer of the play, insisted that Gladys Smith assume the stage name Mary Pickford. After completing the Broadway run and touring the play, however, Pickford was again out of work.\n\nOn April 19, 1909, the Biograph Company director D. W. Griffith screen-tested her at the company's New York studio for a role in the nickelodeon film \"Pippa Passes\". The role went to someone else but Griffith was immediately taken with Pickford. She quickly grasped that movie acting was simpler than the stylized stage acting of the day. Most Biograph actors earned $5 a day but, after Pickford's single day in the studio, Griffith agreed to pay her $10 a day against a guarantee of $40 a week.\n\nPickford, like all actors at Biograph, played both bit parts and leading roles, including mothers, ingenues, charwomen, spitfires, slaves, Native Americans, spurned women, and a prostitute. As Pickford said of her success at Biograph:I played scrubwomen and secretaries and women of all nationalities ... I decided that if I could get into as many pictures as possible, I'd become known, and there would be a demand for my work. She appeared in 51 films in 1909 – almost one a week. While at Biograph, she suggested to Florence La Badie to \"try pictures\", invited her to the studio and later introduced her to D. W. Griffith, who launched La Badie's career.\n\nIn January 1910, Pickford traveled with a Biograph crew to Los Angeles. Many other film companies wintered on the West Coast, escaping the weak light and short days that hampered winter shooting in the East. Pickford added to her 1909 Biographs (\"Sweet and Twenty\", \"They Would Elope,\" and \"To Save Her Soul\", to name a few) with films made in California.\n\nActors were not listed in the credits in Griffith's company. Audiences noticed and identified Pickford within weeks of her first film appearance. Exhibitors in turn capitalized on her popularity by advertising on sandwich boards that a film featuring \"The Girl with the Golden Curls\", \"Blondilocks\", or \"The Biograph Girl\" was inside.\n\nPickford left Biograph in December 1910. The following year, she starred in films at Carl Laemmle's Independent Moving Pictures Company (IMP). IMP was absorbed into Universal Pictures in 1912, along with Majestic. Unhappy with their creative standards, Pickford returned to work with Griffith in 1912. Some of her best performances were in his films, such as \"Friends\", \"The Mender of Nets\", \"Just Like a Woman\", and \"The Female of the Species\". That year, Pickford also introduced Dorothy and Lillian Gish– whom she had befriended as new neighbors from Ohio –to Griffith, and each became major silent film stars, in comedy and tragedy, respectively. Pickford made her last Biograph picture, \"The New York Hat\", in late 1912.\n\nShe returned to Broadway in the David Belasco production of \"A Good Little Devil\" (1912). This was a major turning point in her career. Pickford, who had always hoped to conquer the Broadway stage, discovered how deeply she missed film acting. In 1913, she decided to work exclusively in film. The previous year, Adolph Zukor had formed Famous Players in Famous Plays. It was later known as Famous Players-Lasky and then Paramount Pictures, one of the first American feature film companies.\nPickford left the stage to join Zukor's roster of stars. Zukor believed film's potential lay in recording theatrical players in replicas of their most famous stage roles and productions. Zukor first filmed Pickford in a silent version of \"A Good Little Devil\". The film, produced in 1913, showed the play's Broadway actors reciting every line of dialogue, resulting in a stiff film that Pickford later called \"one of the worst [features] I ever made ... it was deadly\". Zukor agreed; he held the film back from distribution for a year.\n\nPickford's work in material written for the camera by that time had attracted a strong following. Comedy-dramas, such as \"In the Bishop's Carriage\" (1913), \"Caprice\" (1913), and especially \"Hearts Adrift\" (1914), made her irresistible to moviegoers. \"Hearts Adrift\" was so popular that Pickford asked for the first of her many publicized pay raises based on the profits and reviews. The film marked the first time Pickford’s name was featured above the title on movie marquees. \"Tess of the Storm Country\" was released five weeks later. Biographer Kevin Brownlow observed that the film \"sent her career into orbit and made her the most popular actress in America, if not the world\".\n\nHer appeal was summed up two years later by the February 1916 issue of \"Photoplay\" as \"luminous tenderness in a steel band of gutter ferocity\". Only Charlie Chaplin, who slightly surpassed Pickford's popularity in 1916, had a similarly spellbinding pull with critics and the audience. Each enjoyed a level of fame far exceeding that of other actors. Throughout the 1910s and 1920s, Pickford was believed to be the most famous woman in the world, or, as a silent-film journalist described her, \"the best known woman who has ever lived, the woman who was known to more people and loved by more people than any other woman that has been in all history\".\n\n Pickford starred in 52 features throughout her career. On June 24, 1916, Pickford signed a new contract with Zukor that granted her full authority over production of the films in which she starred, and a record-breaking salary of $10,000 a week. In addition, Pickford's compensation was half of a film's profits, with a guarantee of $1,040,000 (US$ in 2018).\n\nOccasionally, she played a child, in films such as \"The Poor Little Rich Girl\" (1917), \"Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm\" (1917), \"Daddy-Long-Legs\" (1919) and \"Pollyanna\" (1920). Pickford's fans were devoted to these \"little girl\" roles, but they were not typical of her career. Due to her lack of a normal childhood, she enjoyed making these pictures. Given how small she was at under five feet, and her naturalistic acting abilities, she was very successful in these roles. Douglas Fairbanks Jr., when he first met her in person as a boy, assumed she was a new playmate for him, and asked her to come and play trains with him, which she obligingly did.\n\nIn August 1918, Pickford's contract expired and, when refusing Zukor's terms for a renewal, she was offered $250,000 to leave the motion picture business. She declined, and went to First National Pictures, which agreed to her terms. In 1919, Pickford, along with D.W. Griffith, Charlie Chaplin, and Douglas Fairbanks, formed the independent film production company United Artists. Through United Artists, Pickford continued to produce and perform in her own movies; she could also distribute them as she chose. In 1920, Pickford's film \"Pollyanna\" grossed around $1,100,000. The following year, Pickford's film \"Little Lord Fauntleroy\" was also a success, and in 1923, \"Rosita\" grossed over $1,000,000 as well. During this period, she also made \"Little Annie Rooney\" (1925), another film in which Pickford played a child, \"Sparrows\" (1926), which blended the Dickensian with newly minted German expressionist style, and \"My Best Girl\" (1927), a romantic comedy featuring her future husband Buddy Rogers.\n\nThe arrival of sound was her undoing. Pickford underestimated the value of adding sound to movies, claiming that \"adding sound to movies would be like putting lipstick on the Venus de Milo\".\n\nShe played a reckless socialite in \"Coquette\" (1929), a role for which her famous ringlets were cut into a 1920s' bob. Pickford had already cut her hair in the wake of her mother's death in 1928. Fans were shocked at the transformation. Pickford's hair had become a symbol of female virtue, and when she cut it, the act made front-page news in \"The New York Times\" and other papers. \"Coquette\" was a success and won her an Academy Award for Best Actress, although this was highly controversial. The public failed to respond to her in the more sophisticated roles. Like most movie stars of the silent era, Pickford found her career fading as talkies became more popular among audiences.\n\nHer next film, \"The Taming of The Shrew\", made with husband Douglas Fairbanks, was not well received at the box office. Established Hollywood actors were panicked by the impending arrival of the talkies. On March 29, 1928, \"The Dodge Brothers Hour\" was broadcast from Pickford's bungalow, featuring Fairbanks, Chaplin, Norma Talmadge, Gloria Swanson, John Barrymore, D.W. Griffith, and Dolores del Rio, among others. They spoke on the radio show to prove that they could meet the challenge of talking movies.\n\nA transition in the roles Pickford selected came when she was in her late 30s, no longer able to play the children, teenage spitfires, and feisty young women so adored by her fans, and was not suited for the glamorous and vampish heroines of early sound. In 1933, she underwent a Technicolor screen test for an animated/live action film version of \"Alice in Wonderland\", but Walt Disney discarded the project when Paramount released its own version of the book. Only one Technicolor still of her screen test still exists. She retired from acting in 1933; her last acting film was released in 1934. She continued to produce for others, however, including \"Sleep, My Love\" (1948; with Claudette Colbert) and \"Love Happy\" (1949), with the Marx Brothers).\n\nPickford used her stature in the movie industry to promote a variety of causes. Although her image depicted fragility and innocence, Pickford proved to be a worthy businesswoman who took control of her career in a cutthroat industry.\n\nDuring World War I, she promoted the sale of Liberty Bonds, making an intensive series of fund-raising speeches that kicked off in Washington, D.C., where she sold bonds alongside Charlie Chaplin, Douglas Fairbanks, Theda Bara, and Marie Dressler. Five days later she spoke on Wall Street to an estimated 50,000 people. Though Canadian-born, she was a powerful symbol of Americana, kissing the American flag for cameras and auctioning one of her world-famous curls for $15,000. In a single speech in Chicago she sold an estimated five million dollars' worth of bonds. She was christened the U.S. Navy's official \"Little Sister\"; the Army named two cannons after her and made her an honorary colonel.\n\nAt the end of World War I, Pickford conceived of the Motion Picture Relief Fund, an organization to help financially needy actors. Leftover funds from her work selling Liberty Bonds were put toward its creation, and in 1921, the Motion Picture Relief Fund (MPRF) was officially incorporated, with Joseph Schenck voted its first president and Pickford its vice president. In 1932, Pickford spearheaded the \"Payroll Pledge Program\", a payroll-deduction plan for studio workers who gave one half of one percent of their earnings to the MPRF. As a result, in 1940, the Fund was able to purchase land and build the Motion Picture Country House and Hospital, in Woodland Hills, California.\n\nAn astute businesswoman, Pickford became her own producer within three years of her start in features. According to her Foundation, \"she oversaw every aspect of the making of her films, from hiring talent and crew to overseeing the script, the shooting, the editing, to the final release and promotion of each project\". She demanded (and received) these powers in 1916, when she was under contract to Zukor's Famous Players In Famous Plays (later Paramount). Zukor acquiesced to her refusal to participate in block-booking, the widespread practice of forcing an exhibitor to show a bad film of the studio's choosing to also be able to show a Pickford film. In 1916, Pickford's films were distributed, singly, through a special distribution unit called Artcraft. The Mary Pickford Corporation was briefly Pickford's motion-picture production company.\nIn 1919, she increased her power by co-founding United Artists (UA) with Charlie Chaplin, D. W. Griffith, and her soon-to-be husband, Douglas Fairbanks. Before UA's creation, Hollywood studios were vertically integrated, not only producing films but forming chains of theaters. Distributors (also part of the studios) arranged for company productions to be shown in the company's movie venues. Filmmakers relied on the studios for bookings; in return they put up with what many considered creative interference.\n\nUnited Artists broke from this tradition. It was solely a distribution company, offering independent film producers access to its own screens as well as the rental of temporarily unbooked cinemas owned by other companies. Pickford and Fairbanks produced and shot their films after 1920 at the jointly owned Pickford-Fairbanks studio on Santa Monica Boulevard. The producers who signed with UA were true independents, producing, creating and controlling their work to an unprecedented degree. As a co-founder, as well as the producer and star of her own films, Pickford became the most powerful woman who has ever worked in Hollywood. By 1930, Pickford's acting career had largely faded. After retiring three years later, however, she continued to produce films for United Artists. She and Chaplin remained partners in the company for decades. Chaplin left the company in 1955, and Pickford followed suit in 1956, selling her remaining shares for three million dollars.\n\nPickford was married three times. She married Owen Moore, an Irish-born silent film actor, on January 7, 1911. It is rumored she became pregnant by Moore in the early 1910s and had a miscarriage or an abortion. Some accounts suggest this resulted in her later inability to have children. The couple had numerous marital problems, notably Moore's alcoholism, insecurity about living in the shadow of Pickford's fame, and bouts of domestic violence. The couple lived together on-and-off for several years.\n\nPickford became secretly involved in a relationship with Douglas Fairbanks. They toured the U.S. together in 1918 to promote Liberty Bond sales for the World War I effort. Around this time, Pickford also suffered from the flu during the 1918 flu pandemic. Pickford divorced Moore on March 2, 1920, after she agreed to his $100,000 demand for a settlement. She married Fairbanks just days later on March 28, 1920. They went to Europe for their honeymoon; fans in London and in Paris caused riots trying to get to the famous couple. The couple's triumphant return to Hollywood was witnessed by vast crowds who turned out to hail them at railway stations across the United States.\n\n\"The Mark of Zorro\" (1920) and a series of other swashbucklers gave the popular Fairbanks a more romantic, heroic image. Pickford continued to epitomize the virtuous but fiery girl next door. Even at private parties, people instinctively stood up when Pickford entered a room; she and her husband were often referred to as \"Hollywood royalty\". Their international reputations were broad. Foreign heads of state and dignitaries who visited the White House often asked if they could also visit Pickfair, the couple's mansion in Beverly Hills.\n\nDinners at Pickfair included a number of notable guests. Charlie Chaplin, Fairbanks' best friend, was often present. Other guests included George Bernard Shaw, Albert Einstein, Elinor Glyn, Helen Keller, H. G. Wells, Lord Mountbatten, Fritz Kreisler, Amelia Earhart, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Noël Coward, Max Reinhardt, Baron Nishi, Vladimir Nemirovich-Danchenko, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Austen Chamberlain, Sir Harry Lauder, and Meher Baba, among others. The public nature of Pickford's second marriage strained it to the breaking point. Both she and Fairbanks had little time off from producing and acting in their films. They were also constantly on display as America's unofficial ambassadors to the world, leading parades, cutting ribbons, and making speeches. When their film careers both began to flounder at the end of the silent era, Fairbanks' restless nature prompted him to overseas travel (something which Pickford did not enjoy). When Fairbanks' romance with Sylvia, Lady Ashley became public in the early 1930s, he and Pickford separated. They divorced January 10, 1936. Fairbanks' son by his first wife, Douglas Fairbanks Jr., claimed his father and Pickford long regretted their inability to reconcile.\n\nOn June 24, 1937, Pickford married her third and last husband, actor and band leader Buddy Rogers. They adopted two children: Roxanne (born 1944, adopted 1944) and Ronald Charles (born 1937, adopted 1943, a.k.a. Ronnie Pickford Rogers). As a PBS \"American Experience\" documentary noted, Pickford's relationship with her children was tense. She criticized their physical imperfections, including Ronnie's small stature and Roxanne's crooked teeth. Both children later said their mother was too self-absorbed to provide real maternal love. In 2003, Ronnie recalled that \"Things didn't work out that much, you know. But I'll never forget her. I think that she was a good woman.\"\n\nAfter retiring from the screen, Pickford became an alcoholic, as her father had been. Her mother Charlotte died of breast cancer in March 1928. Her siblings, Lottie and Jack, both died of alcohol-related causes. These deaths, her divorce from Fairbanks, and the end of silent films left Pickford deeply depressed. Her relationship with her children, Roxanne and Ronald, was turbulent at best. Pickford withdrew and gradually became a recluse, remaining almost entirely at Pickfair and allowing visits only from Lillian Gish, her stepson Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., and few other people. She appeared in court in 1959, in a matter pertaining to her co-ownership of North Carolina TV station WSJS-TV. The court date coincided with the date of her 67th birthday; under oath, when asked to give her age, Pickford replied: \"I'm 21, going on 20.\"\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Pickford often received visitors only by telephone, speaking to them from her bedroom. Buddy Rogers often gave guests tours of Pickfair, including views of a genuine western bar Pickford had bought for Douglas Fairbanks, and a portrait of Pickford in the drawing room. A print of this image now hangs in the Library of Congress. In addition to her Oscar as best actress for \"Coquette\" (1929), Mary Pickford received an Academy Honorary Award in 1976 for lifetime achievement. The Academy sent a TV crew to her house to record her short statement of thanks – offering the public a very rare glimpse into Pickfair Manor.\n\nPickford had ceased to be a British subject when she became an American citizen upon her marriage to Fairbanks in 1920. Thus, she never acquired Canadian citizenship when it was first created in 1947. Toward the end of her life, Pickford made arrangements with the Department of Citizenship to acquire Canadian citizenship because she wished to \"die as a Canadian\". Her request was approved and she became a dual Canadian-American citizen.\nOn May 29, 1979, Pickford died at a Santa Monica, California, hospital of complications from a cerebral hemorrhage she had suffered the week before. She was interred in the Garden of Memory of the Forest Lawn Memorial Park cemetery in Glendale, California.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52807540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52807540", "title": "Max Loreau", "text": "Max Loreau\n\nMax Loreau (7 June 1928, Brussels – 7 January 1990) was a 20th-century Belgian philosopher, poet and art critic\n\nMax Loreau is interested in the aesthetics of the Renaissance before publishing the complete catalog of works by Jean Dubuffet. He became close to the members of the Cobra movement. He devotes various articles to painters like Guillaume Corneille or Asger Jorn, before drafting a more comprehensive study of the logograms by Christian Dotremont in 1975. He also worked with Pierre Alechinsky who helped him to publish one of his last texts, \"L'Épreuve\".\n\nHis philosophy takes root in phenomenology, from which he tries to rehabilitate the body. He starts from a genetic approach in which he tries to rethink the origin of the phenomenon as the genesis of the apparition. In \"Cri\" (Shout), he inaugurates a radical style from which he describes the effect of rupture, tearing and the void that emerges from the shout. This uncovering of the experience of language invites us to redefine the emergence of the apparition and show how the view resumes its bearings and reconstitutes a world. Starting from a critique of the Platonic vision, which fundamentally denies the body, since it is idealized as a vision of ideas, this path leads Loreau to rethink a new beginning of the body, vision and language.\n\nMax Loreau also published various poems under the titles \"Cerceaux s'orcellent\", \"Chants de la perpétuelle venue\" and \"Florence portée aux nues\".\n\nPosthumous :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798443", "title": "Media economics", "text": "Media economics\n\nMedia economics embodies economic theoretical and practical economic questions specific to media of all types. Of particular concern to media economics are the economic policies and practices of media companies and disciplines including journalism and the news industry, film production, entertainment programs, print, broadcast, mobile communications, Internet, advertising and public relations. Deregulation of media, media ownership and concentration, market share, intellectual property rights, competitive economic strategies, company economics, \"media tax\" and other issues are considered parts of the field. Media economics has social, cultural, and economic implications.Regular study of media economic issues began in the 1970s but flourished in the 1980s with the addition of classes on the subject at U.S. and European universities. \"The Journal of Media Economics\" began publishing in 1988, edited by Robert G. Picard, one of the founding fathers of the discipline. Since that time the field of inquiry has flourished and there are now hundreds of universities offering courses and programs in media economics. Other significant figures in the field have included Steven S. Wildman, Alan Albarran, Bruce M. Owen, Ben Compaine, Ghislain Deslandes, Stuart McFadyen, Gillian Doyle, Karl Erik Gustafsson, Lucy Küng, Gregory Ferrell Lowe, Nadine Toussaint Desmoulins, Achour Fenni, Amanda D. Lotz, and Stephen Lacy.\n\nWithin academia, the location of media economics research varies depending upon the tradition and history of the institution. In some universities it is located in schools of business or economics, whereas in others it is located in communication, media or journalism schools (or departments).\n\nThe term \"cultural economics\" is sometimes used as a synonym for media economics but they are not substitutable. Cultural economics includes a wide variety of activities that do not necessarily involve mediated dissemination such as museums, symphonies, operas, and festivals. At times these may cross over into media economic issues, such as when audio or video recordings are made of performances or museum holdings are put on CDs.\n\nThere is no definitive list of every radio and television station in the world. The National Association of Broadcasters cites the estimate from the U.S. C.I.A. World Fact Book, which reports that \"as of January 2000, there are over 21,500 television stations and over 44,000 radio stations.\" (CIA World Fact Book references – Radio, TV)\n\nIn the United States the FCC provides a list of \"Licensed Broadcast Station Totals (Index) 1990 to Present,\" which may be found here. According to the FCC report –\n\nThere is no definitive list of every radio and television station in the world. The National Association of Broadcasters cites the estimate from the U.S. C.I.A. World Fact Book, which reports that \"as of January 2000, there are over 21,500 television stations and over 44,000 radio stations.\" (CIA World Fact Book references – Radio, TV)\n\nIn the United States the FCC provides a list of \"Licensed Broadcast Station Totals (Index) 1990 to Present,\" which may be found here. According to the FCC report –\n\n\nIn the United States, a report from the Radio Advertising Bureau (RAB) states that in 2002, radio's revenue reached $19.4 billion, an increase of 5.7% from the $17.7 billion earned in 2001. For additional details see RAB's Radio Fact Book. Total broadcast revenues for 2001 were $54.4 billion, as reported by The Television Advertising Bureau (TVB).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27991852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27991852", "title": "Merchants of Doubt", "text": "Merchants of Doubt\n\nMerchants of Doubt: How a Handful of Scientists Obscured the Truth on Issues from Tobacco Smoke to Global Warming is a 2010 non-fiction book by American historians of science Naomi Oreskes and Erik M. Conway. It identifies parallels between the global warming controversy and earlier controversies over tobacco smoking, acid rain, DDT, and the hole in the ozone layer. Oreskes and Conway write that in each case \"keeping the controversy alive\" by spreading doubt and confusion after a scientific consensus had been reached, was the basic strategy of those opposing action. In particular, they say that Fred Seitz, Fred Singer, and a few other contrarian scientists joined forces with conservative think tanks and private corporations to challenge the scientific consensus on many contemporary issues.\n\nThe George C. Marshall Institute and Fred Singer, two of the subjects, have been critical of the book. Other reviewers have been more favorable. One reviewer said that \"Merchants of Doubt\" is exhaustively researched and documented, and may be one of the most important books of 2010. Another reviewer saw the book as his choice for best science book of the year. It was made into a film, \"Merchants of Doubt\", directed by Robert Kenner, released in 2014.\n\nOreskes and Conway write that a handful of politically conservative scientists, with strong ties to particular industries, have \"played a disproportionate role in debates about controversial questions\". The authors write that this has resulted in \"deliberate obfuscation\" of the issues which has had an influence on public opinion and policy-making.\n\nThe book criticizes the so-called Merchants of Doubt, some predominantly American science key players, above all Bill Nierenberg, Fred Seitz, and Fred Singer. All three are physicists: Singer was a rocket scientist, whereas Nierenberg and Seitz worked on the atomic bomb. They have been active on topics like acid rain, tobacco smoking, global warming and pesticides. The book claims that these scientists have challenged and diluted the scientific consensus in the various fields, as of the dangers of smoking, the effects of acid rain, the existence of the ozone hole, and the existence of anthropogenic climate change. Seitz and Singer have been involved with institutions such as The Heritage Foundation, Competitive Enterprise Institute and George C. Marshall Institute in the United States. Funded by corporations and conservative foundations, these organizations have opposed many forms of state intervention or regulation of U.S. citizens. The book lists similar tactics in each case: \"discredit the science, disseminate false information, spread confusion, and promote doubt\".\n\nThe book states that Seitz, Singer, Nierenberg and Robert Jastrow were all fiercely anti-communist and they viewed government regulation as a step towards socialism and communism. The authors argue that, with the collapse of the Soviet Union, they looked for another great threat to free market capitalism and found it in environmentalism. They feared that an over-reaction to environmental problems would lead to heavy-handed government intervention in the marketplace and intrusion into people's lives. Oreskes and Conway state that the longer the delay the worse these problems get, and the more likely it is that governments will need to take the draconian measures that conservatives and market fundamentalists most fear. They say that Seitz, Singer, Nierenberg and Jastrow denied the scientific evidence, contributed to a strategy of delay, and thereby helped to bring about the situation they most dreaded. The authors have a strong doubt about the ability of the media to differentiate between false truth and the actual science in question; however, they stop short of endorsing censorship in the name of science. The journalistic norm of balanced reporting has helped, according to the authors, to amplify the misleading messages of the contrarians. Oreskes and Conway state: \"small numbers of people can have large, negative impacts, especially if they are organised, determined and have access to power\".\n\nThe main conclusion of the book is that there would have been more progress in policymaking, if not for the influence of the contrarian \"experts\", which tried on ideological reasons to undermine trust in the science base for regulation. Similar conclusions were already drawn, among others on Frederick Seitz and William Nierenberg in the book \"Requiem for a Species: Why We Resist the Truth about Climate Change\" (2010) by Australian academic Clive Hamilton.\n\nPhilip Kitcher in \"Science\" says that Naomi Oreskes and Erik Conway are \"two outstanding historians\". He calls \"Merchants of Doubt\" a \"fascinating and important study\". Kitcher says that the apparently harsh claims against Nierenberg, Seitz, and Singer are \"justified through a powerful dissection of the ways in which prominent climate scientists, such as Roger Revelle and Ben Santer, were exploited or viciously attacked in the press\".\n\nIn \"The Christian Science Monitor\", Will Buchanan says that \"Merchants of Doubt\" is exhaustively researched and documented, and may be one of the most important books of 2010. Oreskes and Conway are seen to demonstrate that the doubt merchants are not \"objective scientists\" as the term is popularly understood. Instead, they are \"science-speaking mercenaries\" hired by corporations to process numbers to prove that the corporations’ products are safe and useful. Buchanan says they are salesmen, not scientists.\n\nBud Ward published a review of the book in \"The Yale Forum on Climate and the Media\". He wrote that Oreskes and Conway use a combination of thorough scholarly research combined with writing reminiscent of the best investigative journalism, to \"unravel deep common links to past environmental and public health controversies\". In terms of climate science, the authors' leave \"little doubt about their disdain for what they regard as the misuse and abuse of science by a small cabal of scientists they see as largely lacking in requisite climate science expertise\".\n\nPhil England writes in \"The Ecologist\" that the strength of the book is the rigour of the research and the detailed focus on key incidents. He said, however, that the climate change chapter is only 50 pages long, and recommends several other books for readers who want to get a broader picture of this aspect: Jim Hoggan’s \"Climate Cover-Up\", George Monbiot’s \"Heat: How to Stop the Planet Burning\" and Ross Gelbspan’s \"The Heat is On\" and \"Boiling Point\". England also said that there is little coverage about the millions of dollars which Exxon Mobil has put into funding groups actively involved in promoting climate change denial and doubt.\n\nA review in \"The Economist\" calls this a powerful book which articulates the politics involved and the degree to which scientists have sometimes manufactured and exaggerated environmental uncertainties, but opines that the authors fail to fully explain how environmental action has still often proved possible despite countervailing factors.\n\nRobert N. Proctor, who coined the term \"agnotology\" to describe the study of culturally induced ignorance or doubt, wrote in \"American Scientist\" that \"Merchants of Doubt\" is a detailed and artfully written book. He set it in the context of other books which cover the \"history of manufactured ignorance\": David Michaels’s \"Doubt is their Product\" (2008), Chris Mooney’s \"The Republican War on Science\" (2009), David Rosner and Gerald Markowitz’s \"Deceit and Denial\" (2002), and his own book \"Cancer Wars\" (1995).\n\nRobin McKie in \"The Guardian\" states that Oreskes and Conway deserve considerable praise for exposing the influence of a small group of Cold War ideologues. Their tactic of spreading doubt has confused the public about a series of key scientific issues such as global warming, even though scientists have actually become more certain about their research results. McKie says that \"Merchants of Doubt\" includes detailed notes on all sources used, is carefully paced, and is \"my runaway contender for best science book of the year\".\n\nSociologist Reiner Grundmann's review in \"BioSocieties\" journal, acknowledges that the book is well researched and factually based, but criticizes the book as being written in a black and white manner whereas historians should write a more nuanced description. The book depicts special interests and contrarians misleading the public as being mainly responsible for stopping action on policy. He says this shows a lack of basic understanding of the political process and the mechanisms of knowledge policy, because the authors assume that public policy would follow on from an understanding of the science. While the book provides \"all the (formal) hallmarks of science\", Grundmann sees it less as a scholarly work than a passionate attack and overall as a problematic book.\n\nWilliam O’Keefe and Jeff Kueter from the George C. Marshall Institute, which was founded by Seitz, say that although \"Merchants of Doubt\" has the appearance of a scholarly work, it discredits and undermines the reputations of people who in their lifetime contributed greatly to the American nation. They say that it does this by questioning their integrity, impugning their character, and questioning their judgement.\n\nNaomi Oreskes is Professor of History and Science Studies at Harvard University. She has degrees in geological science and a Ph.D. in Geological Research and the History of Science. Her work came to public attention in 2004 with the publication of \"The Scientific Consensus on Climate Change,\" in \"Science\", in which she wrote that there was no significant disagreement in the scientific community about the reality of global warming from human causes. Erik M. Conway is the historian at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55714775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55714775", "title": "Opera Ireland", "text": "Opera Ireland\n\nOpera Ireland was Ireland's first permanent national opera company. Although its roots go back to 1941 as the Dublin Grand Opera Society, the company was established in its final form in 1985 as the Dublin Grand Opera Society Ltd. From 1996 until its demise in 2010 it was known as Opera Ireland. During its existence it was based at Dublin's Gaiety Theatre.\n\nThe Dublin Grand Opera Society (DGOS) was founded in 1941 by Captain (later Colonel) William O'Kelly and a group of opera enthusiasts with John McCormack as its patron. The shows were cast with local singers and a volunteer chorus. Initially the music was provided by the orchestra of the Irish Army music school, and later by the Radio Eireann Symphony Orchestra. The Society put on two one-week seasons of opera throughout the years of World War II. After the war ended the DGOS presented performances by European opera companies such as the Opera-Comique, Hamburg Opera and the Netherlands Opera. From the mid 1950s to 1966, the Society, concentrated on Italian opera with the help of sponsorship from the Italian government. During that time numerous Italian stars and rising stars of the day appeared there, including Luciano Pavarotti who sang in \"Rigoletto\", \"La traviata\", and \"La bohème\". The Italian sponsorship ended in 1966, but the Arts Council of Ireland and the Bord Fáilte (Ireland's tourist board) continued to provide guarantees for any financial losses. New opera companies were brought in, including the Romanian National Opera and the Prague National Theatre. \n\nIn the mid-1980s, after a particularly shambolic production of \"Tosca\", the DGOS came under pressure from the Arts Council to move towards mounting its own productions and spending more on sets and costumes. The Society was reconstituted as a private company limited by guarantee in 1985 and began the transition from an amateur society to a fully-fledged professional company, taking on its first permanent staff—an Administrator, Artistic Director and Chorus Master. The volunteer amateur chorus was given a professional \"core\" through a contract with the National Chamber Choir of Ireland. The British theatre and opera director Michael McCaffery was appointed the company's first Artistic Director in 1986 and the company continued presenting two one-week seasons each year with two productions each season.\n\nAccording to Michael Dervan, the music critic of \"The Irish Times\", under Michael McCaffery, there were immediate and major improvements in production values. However, McCaffery resigned in 1989 without completing his full contract. His successor, Kenneth Richardson, lasted for only two seasons. Richardson was followed by Elaine Padmore who at the time was also the Artistic Director of the Wexford Festival. When she departed in 1993 to become Artistic Director of the Royal Danish Opera, Dorothea Glatt took over. Glatt combined her post at DGOS with her ongoing work as the assistant to Wolfgang Wagner at the Bayreuth Festival. Her tenure was not a particularly successful one and in 1996 the company advertised once again for a new Artistic Director. That same year it also officially re-branded itself as Opera Ireland. \n\nOpera Ireland ceased operation in 2010. The plan of the Arts Council of Ireland was to create the Irish National Opera. However, the new company never became operational and the project was eventually shut down. The project was restarted in 2017 with the formation of a new Irish National Opera to be formed under from the merger of Opera Theatre Company and Wide Open Opera with Fergus Sheil as artistic director. The Irish National Opera officially launched in January 2018 with a production of Thomas Adès's chamber opera \"Powder Her Face\" with plans to present and tour six more operas by the end of the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "9070065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9070065", "title": "Photographs and Notebooks", "text": "Photographs and Notebooks\n\nPhotographs and Notebooks is a collection of British author Bruce Chatwin's photographs and notebooks that were made during his life when he was working on his various novels and travel books. It was published posthumously in 1993 by Jonathan Cape.\n"}
{"id": "42535059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42535059", "title": "Riva Helfond", "text": "Riva Helfond\n\nRiva Helfond (March 8, 1910 - May 13, 2002) was an American artist and printmaker best known for her social realist studies of working people's lives.\n\nRiva Helfond was born in Brooklyn, New York, to a Jewish family. She spent some of her childhood in Russia and returned to New York at the age of eleven, living in New York or New Jersey for most of the rest of her life. Between 1928 and 1940, she studied at the School of Industrial Art and the Art Students League; her teachers included William von Schlegell, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, and Morris Kantor for painting and Harry Sternberg for printmaking. Among her fellow students were Alexander Brook and her future husband, the sculptor William (Bill) Barrett (d. 1967).\n\nHelfond began teaching in the College Art Association Program (1933–36) and then taught printmaking at the Harlem Arts Community Center (1936–38). Initially she taught lithography alongside Jacob Lawrence, Romare Bearden, and others before moving to the graphic arts division, where she worked with Louis Lozowick and Jacob Kainen, and the silkscreen division, which was supervised by Anthony Velonis and which had Harry Gottlieb and Elizabeth Olds as founding members. Among her students at the Center was Robert Blackburn, who would go on to found New York's Printmaking Workshop in the 1940s. Later on, Helfond taught printmaking at New York University (1964), and she was on the faculty of Union College in Cranford, New Jersey, from 1980 onwards.\n\nFrom 1936 to 1941, Helfond was an artist in the New York Works Progress Administration program's graphics division, creating work in a variety of media, including lithographs, woodcuts, etchings, aquatints, collograph, and silkscreens. Some of her work shows the impact that color had as it entered American printmaking during this period, and she was adventurous in exploring the possibilities opened up by screen printing. She printed all of her own work, which ranged from austere, often monochromatic social realist portraits of working people and cityscapes in the 1920s and 1930s to colorful, abstract, lyrical landscapes in later years. Some of her color abstractions originated as watercolors from nature during travels in Greece and France and were then turned into oil paintings.\n\nHelfond was politically progressive, and along with contemporaries like Elizabeth Olds, Beatrice Mandelman, and Minna Citron, she is especially well known for works that \"pointedly condemned the state of labor, and the relationship between big business and big government, in the 1930s.\" Examples of these include \"Custom Made\" (1940), a lithograph showing a woman slumped over her work in a WPA sewing room, and \"Snow Clearing\" (1933), showing men at work shoveling a street.\n\nThere are also a number of prints about the grim lives of coal miners, such as \"Miner and Wife\" (1937), an \"American Gothic\"–style portrait of a couple, with the husband showing a closed fist; \"Out of the Pit\" (1935), a double portrait of miners with blackened faces; and \"Coal Picker\" (1938), showing elderly women scavenging in a coal mine. After Helfond married Bill Barrett, whose Welsh relatives worked in the mines, she used these new connections to bring other artists interested in social justice together with the miners. Helfond ran into several obstacles while working in the coal districts of Pennsylvania. For one thing, she was irked that the gatherings of miners and her male artist friends in the local bars tended to exclude her and other women, making it harder for her to develop the relationships necessary to her work. Another obstacle sprang from cultural differences: Helfond recounted how in the mining town of Lansford, the local women became less friendly when she revealed that she was Jewish. Despite these challenges, Helfond's prints of coal miners are considered an important addition to the body of work documenting the lives of the working poor during the New Deal.\n\nHelfond's work has been exhibited at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. (1960), the Newark Museum of Fine Arts (1964, 1967), and elsewhere. It is represented in the permanent collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art (New York), the Brooklyn Museum, the Boston Museum of Fine Art, the Springfield Museum of Fine Art, the Newark Museum of Fine Art, and the Library of Congress, among other institutions. In 2009, her work was featured in the exhibition \"Industrial Strength: Precisionism and New Jersey\" at the Jersey City Museum.\n\nHelfond counted as friends a wide circle of Abstract Expressionist artists and critics, including Willem DeKooning, Arshile Gorky, Franz Kline, and Harold Rosenberg.\n\nIn later life she lived in Plainfield, New Jersey, where she owned and managed the Barrett Art Gallery on East Front Street, which she had started with her husband in the 1960s. In the early 1950s, she designed a rose window for the First Unitarian Society of Plainfield's All Souls Church.\n"}
{"id": "6927975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6927975", "title": "Rolf on Art", "text": "Rolf on Art\n\nRolf on Art was a British art television series made by the BBC. It was hosted by Rolf Harris, the Australian television presenter. The series began in 2001, and the most recent episode was made in 2007. It was followed by Harris's other art programme, \"Star Portraits with Rolf Harris\", which was released after the success of \"Rolf on Art\".\n\nEach episode revolved around Harris looking at a various notable artist from history, and both investigating their life as well as imitating their style of art.\n\nUnlike many other art presenters, Harris did not just look and talk about an artist's work: he created works in their own style. This was a key part of the shows' success. For each episode, he usually painted two pictures in their style, normally in the same place where they created their works. Some episodes were big events, which were held in a public place, such as Trafalgar Square in London. Harris presented these but many other people (both celebrities and the general public) were enlisted to paint.\n\nIn the first series, from 2001, Harris looked at the Impressionists, a group he has a great affinity for:\n\nIn the second series, he looked at several artists who worked around and after the time of the Impressionists, but were not Impressionists.\n\n\n\nIn this special, Harris looked at Christmas card making. The card he produced was mass-produced and sold for charity that year.\n\nHarris went on a tour of Africa, looking at different styles on African art, including rock art, Makonde wood carving and Benin Bronzes. It was released to coincide with the Live 8 festival in 2005 and the series of programmes on the BBC about Africa.\n\n\nThis special, broadcast on BBC One on 1 January 2006, showed the creation of Harris's 80th birthday portrait painting of Queen Elizabeth II. It was highly publicised because the Queen had never been seen on such a programme before. In it, Harris goes to Buckingham Palace where he meets the Queen and paints her in an impressionist style. It is debatable whether it was a part of the \"Rolf on Art\" series, because it does not contain the title sequence or \"Rolf on Art\" in the title. However, it was advertised as a \"Rolf on Art\" special.\n\nA one-off special, aired on 4 March 2007, where Harris followed in the footsteps of the painter L. S. Lowry. This is different from the season three episode on Lowry.\n\nA one-off special, aired on 30 December 2007. Harris looked at the work of illustrator Beatrix Potter.\n\nThis series was commissioned by and only shown on BBC One Wales. It aired from the 16 February to the 9th of March 2011. It took the same format as the original series, with each episode focusing on a different Welsh artist. The episode on Shani Rhys James was the first profile of a living artist, meaning as part of the programme Harris was able to meet the artist herself.\n\nThe second series began airing on 12 October 2012 but has since ended following Harris's 2013 arrest on charges of indecent assault making indecent images of a child.\n\nA \"Rolf on Art\" book was released for the first series. It contained sections on how he worked, as well as a section on each of the artists he looked at in the series. An updated version was released for the second series.\n\n"}
{"id": "16706164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16706164", "title": "Rutherford + Chekene", "text": "Rutherford + Chekene\n\nRutherford + Chekene is a structural and geotechnical engineering firm in California specializing in new design and retrofit of structures for clients in sectors that include healthcare, higher education, corporate, research and development, art and education, and technology.\n\nRutherford + Chekene began implementing 3-D modeling to produce building information models (BIM) in 2005. R+C has developed more than $3 billion in construction using BIM created with Revit, Tekla and other software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7366168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7366168", "title": "Sit on My Face", "text": "Sit on My Face\n\n\"Sit on My Face\" is a short song by the members of the comedy troupe Monty Python which originally appeared on the album \"Monty Python's Contractual Obligation Album\" and later appeared on the compilation \"Monty Python Sings\". Written by Eric Idle, the song's lyrics are sung to the melody of \"Sing As We Go\" by Gracie Fields. The opening gives way to the voices of The Fred Tomlinson Singers singing \"Sit on my face and tell me that you love me.\" The remaining lyrics contain numerous references to fellatio and cunnilingus, such as \"when I'm between your thighs you blow me away\" and \"life can be fine if we both 69\".\n\nThe song opened the 1982 film \"Monty Python Live at the Hollywood Bowl\", where it was lip-synched by Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones dressed as waiters in a performance which, at the suggestion of Python touring member Neil Innes, ended with them revealing their bare backsides. In 2002, a similar rendition was mimed by Eric Idle, Terry Jones, Terry Gilliam and Neil Innes at the Concert for George, a memorial concert for George Harrison which took place at the Royal Albert Hall. At the end of this rendition the four men turned their backs to face a portrait of George Harrison, thereby revealing their naked buttocks and effectively mooning the Albert Hall audience. More recently it was featured as an animated number in \"\", performed by the London Gay Men's Chorus, both on the recorded soundtrack and live, as a flash mob, during the screening shown during the London Film Festival. The song also opened the second half of Monty Python's 2014 reunion shows where it accompanied a suggestive dance routine by the 20-strong dance ensemble, with Eric Idle and Michael Palin encouraging an audience singalong. \n\nPrior to the album's release, Monty Python received legal threats for alleged copyright infringement due to the use of the tune of \"Sing as We Go\". Nonetheless, the Pythons decided to retain the song.\n\nThe US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has ruled that the song is actionably indecent, concluding that \"despite English accent and 'ambient noise' … the lyrics were sufficiently understandable\". In 1992, it pursued legal action against KGB-FM, a San Diego, California classic rock radio station, for playing the song, eventually forcing the station to pay US$9,200 in fines.\n\nA French language rendition of the song presented in Edinburgh in 2003 translated the title as \"Cum in My Mouth\". According to producer Rémy Renoux, \"Cum in My Mouth is … what Monty Python would have written today.\" Renoux also pointed out that a literal translation into French would not fit the melody of the song, and claimed that the translation met with the approval of the Monty Python team.\n\n"}
{"id": "11715643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11715643", "title": "Spectacle (critical theory)", "text": "Spectacle (critical theory)\n\nThe spectacle is a central notion in the Situationist theory, developed by Guy Debord in his 1967 book, \"The Society of the Spectacle\". In its limited sense, \"spectacle\" means the mass media, which are \"its most glaring superficial manifestation.\" Debord said that the society of the spectacle came to existence in the late 1920s.\n\nThe critique of the \"spectacle\" is a development and application of Karl Marx's concept of fetishism of commodities, reification and alienation, and the way it was reprised by György Lukács in 1923. In the society of the spectacle, the commodities rule the workers and the consumers, instead of being ruled by them, are passive subjects that contemplate the reified spectacle.\n\nDebord claims that in its limited sense, \"spectacle\" means the mass media, which are \"its most glaring superficial manifestation.\". However T. J. Clark regards this as a journalistic cliché. Clark argues that the spectacle came to dominate Paris during the Second Empire thanks to Haussmann's renovation of Paris. Debord, however, said that the society of the spectacle came to existence in the late 1920s. This is the period in which modern advertising and public relations were introduced, most significantly with the innovative techniques developed by Edward Bernays in his campaigns for the tobacco industry. In his 1928 book \"Propaganda\", Bernays theorized the \"conscious and intelligent manipulation of the organized habits and opinions of the masses.\" The critique of the society of the spectacle shares many assumptions and arguments with the critique of the \"culture industry\" made by Adorno and Horkheimer in 1944.\n\nWith \"The Society of the Spectacle\", Debord attempted to provide the Situationist International (SI) with a Marxian critical theory. The concept of \"the spectacle\" expanded to all society the Marxist concept of reification drawn from the first section of Karl Marx's \"Capital\", entitled \"The Fetishism of Commodities and the Secret thereof\" and developed by György Lukács in his work, \"History and Class Consciousness\". This was an analysis of the logic of commodities whereby they achieve an ideological autonomy from the process of their production, so that \"social action takes the form of the action of objects, which rule the producers instead of being ruled by them.\"\n\nDeveloping this analysis of the logic of the commodity, \"The Society of the Spectacle\" generally understood society as divided between the passive subject who consumes the spectacle and the reified spectacle itself. In a spectacular society, the system of commodity production generates a continual stream of images, for consumption by people who lack the experiences represented therein. The spectacle represents people solely in terms of their subordination to commodities, and experience itself becomes commodified.\n\nIn the opening of \"Das Kapital\", Marx makes the observation that within the capitalist mode of production we evaluate materials not by what purpose they serve or what they're actually useful for, but we instead recognize them based on their value in the market. In capitalist society, virtually identical products often have vastly different values simply because one has a more recognizable or prestigious brand name. The value of a commodity is abstract and not tied to its actual characteristics. Much in the same way capitalism commodifies the material world, the situationists assert that advanced capitalism commodifies experience and perception.\n\nAs early as 1958, in the situationist manifesto, Debord described official culture as a \"rigged game\", where conservative powers forbid subversive ideas to have direct access to the public discourse. Such ideas get first trivialized and sterilized, and then they are safely incorporated back within mainstream society, where they can be exploited to add new flavors to old dominant ideas. This technique of the spectacle is sometimes called \"recuperation\".\n\nTo survive, the spectacle must maintain social control and effectively handle all threats to the social order. Recuperation, a concept first proposed by Guy Debord, is the process by which the spectacle intercepts socially and politically radical ideas and images, commodifies them, and safely incorporates them back within mainstream society. More broadly, it may refer to the appropriation or co-opting of any subversive works or ideas by mainstream media. It is the opposite of détournement, in which conventional ideas and images are reorganized and recontextualized with radical intentions.\n\nDebord discusses the close link between revolution and culture and everyday life, and the reason why conservative powers are interested in forbidding them \"any direct access to the rigged game of official culture.\" Debord recalls that worldwide revolutionary movements that emerged during the 1920s were followed by \"an ebbing of the movements that had tried to advance a liberatory new attitude in culture and everyday life,\" and that such movements were brought to a \"complete social isolation.\"\n\nIn \"Comments on the Society of the Spectacle\" (1988), Debord modified his argument, and claimed that the spectacle manifests itself in three different forms:\n\nThe spectacle associated with concentrated bureaucracy. Debord associated this spectacular form mostly with the Eastern Bloc and Fascism, although today mixed backward economies import it, and even advanced capitalist countries in times of crisis. Every aspect of life, like property, music, and communication is concentrated and is identified with the bureaucratic class. The concentrated spectacle generally identifies itself with a powerful political leader. The concentrated spectacle is made effective through a state of permanent violence and police terror.\n\nThe diffuse spectacle is the spectacle associated with advanced capitalism and commodity abundance. In the diffuse spectacle, different commodities conflict with each other, preventing the consumer from consuming the whole. Each commodity claims itself as the only existent one, and tries to impose itself over the other commodities:\n\nThe diffuse spectacle is more effective than the concentrated spectacle. The diffuse spectacle operates mostly through seduction, while the concentrated spectacle operates mostly through violence. Because of this, Debord argues that the diffuse spectacle is more effective at suppressing non-spectacular opinions than the concentrated spectacle.\n\nThe spectacle associated with modern capitalist countries. The integrated spectacle borrows traits from the diffuse and concentrated spectacle to form a new synthesis. Debord argues that this is a very recent form of spectacular manifestation, and that it was pioneered in France and Italy. According to Debord, the integrated spectacle goes by the label of liberal democracy. This spectacle introduces a state of permanent general secrecy, where experts and specialists dictate the morality, statistics, and opinions of the spectacle. Terrorism is the invented enemy of the spectacle, which specialists compare with their \"liberal democracy\", pointing out the superiority of the latter one. Debord argues that without terrorism, the integrated spectacle wouldn't survive, for it needs to be compared to something in order to show its \"obvious\" perfection and superiority.\n\nA long tradition of work exists in political science on the \"political spectacle\" started with Debord; many literary critics and philosophers in the 20th century contributed to this analysis. According to anthropologist Meg McLagan, \"Debord analyzes the penetration of the commodity form into mass communication, which he argues results in the spectacle\". Andrew Hussey claims in his biography of Debord that the term spectacle began life not in a Marxist context, but was first borrowed from Nietzsche and his concept of the mass secret. The critic Sadie Plant argues that later theories of postmodernism, particularly those of Baudrillard and Lyotard, owe much to Debord's theory, and represent an apolitical appropriation of its criticism of the unreality of life under late capitalism. Debord was a rebel to his core and despised academic commodification of his ideas and their integration into the diffuse spectacle. Throughout his life he fought to make his ideas truly revolutionary. \n\nIn \"Green Illusions\", Ozzie Zehner draws largely on Debord to argue that the spectacles of solar cells, wind turbines, and other technologies have organized environmental thinking around energy-production at the expense of energy-reduction strategies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37007750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37007750", "title": "The Lyre of Mesopotamia", "text": "The Lyre of Mesopotamia\n\nThe Lyre of Mesopotamia is a video art made by Sam Chegini about the reconstruction steps of the Lyres of Ur. The \"Lyre of Mesopotamia\" was unveiled in December 2009 during an international congress held by UN-Habitat and IAARA in Qazvin, Iran, among other ancient instruments.\n\nThe video was awarded as best video art in the 1st Persbookart contest on Facebook in 2010 judged by Edward Lucie-Smith. It was also selected in the first Javane Irani national film festival in the same year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48309355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48309355", "title": "The People in the Trees", "text": "The People in the Trees\n\nThe People in the Trees is the 2013 debut novel of author Hanya Yanagihara. Yanagihara stated that her novel was in part inspired by Daniel Carleton Gajdusek who was revered in the scientific community before being accused of child molestation.\n\nYanagihara based the physical look and shape of Ivu'ivu on Angra dos Reis.\n\nIn the late 1990s Dr. Ronald Kubodera, a colleague of Nobel Laureate Dr. Abraham Norton Perina, mourns Norton's downfall after being convicted of sexually abusing his own children. Kubodera encourages Norton to write his memoirs from his prison isolation and marks them with footnotes.\n\nNorton writes of his childhood in the small town of Lindon, Indiana, where his interest in science was piqued by his paternal aunt Sybil, a doctor. While attending medical school Norton attracts the attention of Gregory Smythe, and is hired to work in his lab. Norton is eventually invited to Smythe's home for dinner where Smythe cries in front of him. Repulsed by Smythe, Norton quits the lab. Shortly before graduation however Norton is approached to be the medical doctor on an anthropological mission to U'ivu led by a man named Paul Tallent. Norton realizes that Smythe recommended him in order to send him as far away as possible from him. Despite the fact that the mission is considered career suicide, Norton accepts.\n\nNorton meets Tallent for the first time before they leave from Hawaii to U'ivu and finds him beautiful and enigmatic. When they arrive in U'ivu they meet the other member of the team, a woman named Esme Duff whom Norton immediately dislikes. Tallent leads Norton and Esme to a smaller island that is part of U'ivu called Ivu'ivu. There they meet three hunter guides who lead them deep into the jungle of the island where eventually Tallent reveals to Norton that there is a legend among the U'ivu people about a lost tribe that has been gifted with eternal life but also deep stupidity and that their guides have actually seen one of these people. Shortly after they discover a woman who is devoid of language, completely nude and seems unable to function as a regular human being. The explorers dub the woman Eve and quickly discover a tribe of other people like her whom they dub \"Dreamers\" all of whom have varyingly poor grasp of language. Through some of the more lucid dreamers Tallent discovers that though they all have a mark of a turtle on them, which indicates they are 60, they are actually all well over 100 years old.\n\nShortly after discovering the Dreamers the explorers also discover a group of Ivu'ivu's who had lost contact with the U'ivuians. They are allowed to observe the village as long as they do not bring the Dreamers in contact with them. While there Norton observes the villagers engaging in the ritualistic rape of a young ten-year-old boy. While Esme finds the ritual disturbing Norton decides that it is not rape or abuse but simply a cultural difference. Later on he has a sexual encounter with the boy who was raped.\n\nHe and the group also observe the chief of the village engaging in a ritual to celebrate his 60th year where he eats a turtle. Norton quickly realizes that there is a link between eating the turtle and the seeming immortality and brain damage exhibited by the dreamers. After interviewing one of the dreamers he is taken to a small pond where the turtles comes from and later, against Tallent's advice, returns and kills one of the turtles to bring back its flesh for experiments in America. He and Tallent also bring back four of the Dreamers for further observation.\n\nBack in America, working at Stanford, Norton feeds the turtle to mice and realizes that their life cycle can be extended 6 times that of regular mice. He publishes his paper at first to derision and eventually to acclaim. Tallent warns him that his paper has condemned the people of U'ivu and this eventually proves true; the turtles of Ivu'ivu are eventually hunted to extinction by pharmaceutical companies and the island itself destroyed, eventually U'ivu is colonized as well. Norton continues to visit the island and begins to adopt local abandoned children in great numbers. In 1980 he sees a decrepit man he believes was the boy he had the sexual encounter with when he first came to Ivu'ivu who foists his son on Norton. Norton takes the boy home and names him Victor.\n\nAs Victor grows older he and Norton develop an increasingly contentious relationship. Norton claims that on Christmas Victor locked Norton out of his home leaving him to die after which Norton locked Victor in the basement for a few days. When Victor is a teenager he goes to Norton's brother, Owen, and tells him that Norton raped him, causing a rift between the brothers and leading to Norton's imprisonment.\n\nIn December 2000, Dr. Kubodera writes that he and Norton have escaped from his parole officer. He confesses to feeling guilty for having omitted a portion of Norton's memoirs and includes it as a post-script. The omitted portion reveals that Norton raped not only Victor but many of his other adopted sons.\n\nYanagihara received rave reviews for her novel. \"The New York Times\" called her \" a writer to marvel at\" while \"The Guardian\" called the book an \"ambitious debut\". A review in \"The Independent\" was also overwhelmingly positive calling the novel \"an absorbing, intelligent and uncompromising novel which beguiles and unnerves.\"\n"}
{"id": "13688778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13688778", "title": "The Well Wrought Urn", "text": "The Well Wrought Urn\n\nThe Well Wrought Urn: Studies in the Structure of Poetry is a 1947 collection of essays by Cleanth Brooks. It is considered a seminal text in the New Critical school of literary criticism. The title contains an allusion to the fourth stanza of John Donne's poem, \"The Canonization\", which is the primary subject of the first chapter of the book.\n\n\"The Well Wrought Urn\" is divided into eleven chapters, ten of which attempt close readings of celebrated English poems from verses in Shakespeare's \"Macbeth\" to Yeats's \"Among School Children\". The eleventh, famous chapter, entitled \"The Heresy of Paraphrase,\" is a polemic against the use of paraphrase in describing and criticizing a poem. This chapter is followed by two appendices: \"Criticism, History, and Critical Relativism\" and \"The Problem of Belief.\" Most of the book's contents had been previously published before 1947, and the position it articulates is not significantly different from Brooks's earlier books, \"Understanding Poetry\" and \"Modern Poetry and the Tradition\". The unique contribution of \"The Well Wrought Urn\" is that it combines the close reading analysis of the previous volumes while answering some of the criticism directed at Brooks's theory.\n\nThe book was written in reaction to a prominent stream of literary criticism: the historicist/biographical. This interprets each poetic work within the context of the historical period from which it emerged. Because literary tastes change so much over time, it seems reasonable to the historicist to evaluate each writer according to the standards of his own age. Brooks vehemently rejected this historical relativism, believing it amounts to \"giving up our criteria of good and bad\" and thus repudiating \"our concept of poetry itself\". Brooks opts instead to offer \"universal judgments\" of poems and treat them as self-contained entities, able to be interpreted without recourse to historical or biographical information. As H.L. Heilman writes,\n\nto declare the literary work self-contained or autonomous was less to deny its connections with the nonliterary human world, past and present, than to assert metaphorically the presence in the poem of suprahistorical uniqueness along with the generic or the hereditary or the culturally influenced.\n\nBy distinguishing the \"supra-historical\" from the \"non-historical\", Heilman highlights an important, and often misunderstood distinction in New Criticism. This is that Brooks and the New Critics did not discount the study of the historical context of the literary work, nor its affective potential for the reader, nor its connection to the life experiences of the author. As he wrote in his essay \"The Formalist Critics\", such study is valuable, but should not be confused with criticism of the work itself. It can be performed as validly for bad works as good ones. In fact, it can be performed for any expression, nonliterary or literary. Thus an historical/biographical study of literature fails on two counts: it cannot tell good literature from bad, and cannot distinguish literature from other cultural productions.\n\nThe bulk of the book is devoted to close reading of poems by John Donne, Shakespeare, Milton, Alexander Pope, William Wordsworth, Keats, Lord Tennyson, Yeats, Thomas Gray, and T. S. Eliot. In \"The Well Wrought Urn,\" theory illuminates practice and vice versa. The poems are meant to be \"the concrete examples on which generalizations are to be based\". Thus the first chapter tells us in its title that poetic language is \"The Language of Paradox\".\nIt is a language in which the connotations play as great a part as the denotations. And I do not mean that the connotations are important as supplying some sort of frill or trimming, something external to the real matter in hand. I mean that the poet does not use a notation at all—as the science may be properly be said to do so. The poet, within limits, has to make his language as he goes.\nUnlike the scientist, who seeks to cleanse his work of all ambiguity, the poet thrives on it because with it he can better express experience. The rest of the first chapter is devoted to the close reading of Donne's \"The Canonization\". Brooks in his interpretation challenges the conception of Donne as being an early example of the use of eccentric metaphor, anticipating Yeats and Eliot, instead asserting that he is an extreme example of what all good poetry exemplifies, namely, paradox. Brooks does this by comparing the symbolic imagery of Donne's verse with that of Shakespeare in \"Macbeth\".\n\nIn order to prove that the language of poetry is paradox, he must treat poems that have traditionally been thought straightforward. He takes Herrick's poem, \"Corinna's going a-Maying\", and reveals that the speaker in the poem has a complex attitude toward his \"carpe diem\" theme. In doing so, Brooks brings up another central tenet of his critical theory, one which he will deal with more explicitly in the coming chapters: the notion that no true poem can ever be reduced to its paraphrasable prose content.\n\nIn a similar vein, Brooks analyzes Thomas Gray's \"Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard\". The message of this poem seems straightforward and was duplicated by many other \"graveyard\" poems of the late eighteenth century. Therefore, according to Brooks, what makes it one of the most famous in the English language cannot be the poem's message. Brooks instead focuses on the poem's dramatic context as the source of its power.\n\nThe most famous and best-known application of this doctrine of dramatic appropriateness is Brooks's analysis of Keats's \"Ode on a Grecian Urn\". Widely considered to be one of his best poems, Keats's \"Ode\" ends on what many think a sententious note with its proclamation that \"Beauty is truth, truth beauty.\" But Brooks sees this as dramatically appropriate; it is a paradox that cannot be understood except in terms of the entire poem, if we take seriously Keats's metaphor of the urn as a dramatic speaker.\n\nPart of the intent of \"The Well Wrought Urn\" is to dispel the criticism that Brooks in his earlier works had dismissed the eighteenth and nineteenth century English poets, particularly the Romantics. Brooks thus includes \"\" by Wordsworth and \"Tears, Idle Tears\" by Tennyson along with the Pope, Gray, and Keats poems. He claims that Wordsworth and Tennyson frequently wrote better (i.e., more paradoxically) than even they were aware. Wordsworth sought to write directly and forcefully, without sophistry or wordplay. But his language is, according to Brooks, nevertheless paradoxical. For example, Brooks takes the opening lines of Wordsworth's sonnet, \"It is a Beauteous Evening, Calm and Free:\"\n\nIt is a beauteous evening, calm and free, \nThe holy time is quiet as a Nun, \nBreathless with adoration...\n\nBrooks points out that while the evening is described as quiet and calm, it is also breathless with apparent excitement. There is no final contradiction between this kind of excitement and this kind of calm, but the meaning of the words are being modified by each other, moving away from their purely denotative meaning. This is a good example of what \"paradox\" means to Brooks: the poet expresses himself in words that are metaphorical and thus protean in their meaning, that contradict one another because of their connotations.\n\nBrooks thus uses the same criteria to analyze and judge these poems as he did for the modern and metaphysical verse. This was a rejection of the typical method of interpretation for these poets, which is to judge them by the Romantic standards of their day and in the light of their biographies.\n\nIn his summary chapter, Brooks articulates his position that it is \"heresy\" to paraphrase a poem when trying to get at its meaning. Poems are not simply \"messages\" expressed in flowery language. The language is crucial in determining the message; form is content. Thus to try to abstract the meaning of a poem from the language in which that meaning is rooted, the paradoxical language of metaphor, is to disregard the internal structure of the poem that gives it its meaning. The temptation to think of poetry as prose draped in poetic language is strong simply because both are composed with words and differ only in that poetry has meter and rhyme. But Brooks instead wants us to see poetry as like music, a ballet, or a play:\n\nThe structure of a poem resembles that of a ballet or musical composition. It is a pattern of resolutions and balances and harmonizations, developed through a temporal scheme...most of us are less inclined to force the concept of 'statement' on drama than on a lyric poem; for the very nature of drama is that of something 'acted out'—something which arrives at its conclusion through conflict—something which builds conflict into its very being.\n\nThe poem is a \"working out of the various tensions—set up by whatever means-by propositions, metaphors, symbols\". It achieves a resolution through this working out of tensions, not necessarily a logical resolution but a satisfactory unification of different \"attitudes\", or dispositions towards experience. Therefore, any intellectual proposition within the poem must be viewed in the context of all the other propositions expressed in the highly changeable language of metaphor. The poem does not try to find the truth-value of a particular idea; it tries to juxtapose many, contradictory ideas together and reach a sort of resolution. The poet is trying to \"unify experience\" by making poetry not a statement about experience but an experience itself, with all the contradictory elements contained in one cultural expression, i.e., the poem.\n\n"}
{"id": "30710616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30710616", "title": "Thrilling Adventures", "text": "Thrilling Adventures\n\nThrilling Adventures was a monthly American pulp magazine published from 1931 to 1943.\n\n\"Thrilling Adventures\" was created in 1931 by editor Leo Margulies and was patterned after the pulp \"Adventure\". It was one of 16 pulps that Margulies founded that incorporated the adjective \"Thrilling\" in the title. (The company that published the \"Thrilling\" titles eventually changed its name to Thrilling Publications.) The first edition of \"Thrilling Adventures\" was published in December 1931.\n\n\"Thrilling Adventures\" published fictional stories, mostly of the adventure and sports genres. It continued as a monthly until 1943, when it was reduced to a bimonthly, and the final issue was the November 1943 edition. A total of 139 issues were published during its existence.\n"}
{"id": "47746639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47746639", "title": "Tuyet Nguyet", "text": "Tuyet Nguyet\n\nTuyet Nguyet (\"Snow Moon\") is the Vietnamese publisher, editor and founder of \"Arts of Asia\" magazine which has been published continuously since 1970. Nguyet conceived of the magazine after her brother was killed in the Vietnam War in 1969.\n\nNguyet was born in Tan An province, Vietnam, near the Mekong River in the south of the country. Her name means \"Snow Moon\" in English. Nguyet's father had attended university in Paris and graduated with a degree in agronomy. He was responsible for the introduction of fertilisers on the French model into Vietnamese rice farming. Her mother was a school teacher.\n\nNguyet was educated at the Lycee Maris Curie in Saigon. In 1955, she was awarded a scholarship to study Journalism at the Mundelein College in Chicago. She received her B.A. in journalism in 1958.\n\nIn 1959, Nguyet married Stephen Markbreiter (deceased), an English architect, and moved to Hong Kong. The couple had four sons between 1960 and 1969.\n\nIn Hong Kong, Nguyet developed her journalistic skills while writing for \"Asia Magazine\" (the Sunday magazine for the \"South China Morning Post\"), the \"Far Eastern Economic Review\", \"Agence France Presse\", and \"Modern Asia\".\n\nIn 1969, after her brother was killed in the Vietnam War, Nguyet began to plan a magazine about Asian arts and a preview edition of \"Arts of Asia\" magazine was published in 1970 with the first regular edition appearing in 1971. In the magazine, Nguyet sought to combine authoritative content from experts with detailed coverage of the Asian art market. Since its establishment the magazine has chronicled, through its saleroom reports and articles on collections and collectors, the expanding market for Asian art in Hong Kong. The executive editor of the magazine is Nguyet's son, Robin Markbreiter.\n\nIn 2006, Nguyet helped to set up a vetting committee for the Asia International Arts & Antiques Fair (AIAA 2006) at the AsiaWorld-Expo in Hong Kong.\n\nThe Nguyet-Markbreiters formed an art collection from the early 1970s which was particularly strong in paintings on glass and mirrors. Parts of the collection were sold by Bonhams in Hong Kong in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "19181566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19181566", "title": "Velvet Hammer Music and Management Group", "text": "Velvet Hammer Music and Management Group\n\nVelvet Hammer Music and Management Group is an artist development and management company and record label located in West Hollywood, California in the United States. Its current client roster includes AFI, Alice in Chains, Billy Corgan, Blaqk Audio, Code Orange, Crosses, Deftones, Korn, Night Riots, Scars on Broadway, The Smashing Pumpkins, System of a Down, XTRMST.\n\nThe company was founded in 1997 by David \"Beno\" Benveniste, expanding out of Benveniste's independent music management practice. Beno was born and raised in Beverly Hills, California, and graduated from the University of Southern California. He began a career in the music industry after developing the band System of a Down. Through his creation of the marketing company Streetwise Concepts and Culture, a fan volunteer network that assembled over the Internet for grassroots promotion, Beno tapped into the power of youth marketing to promote the group. Within three years, he was able to build an army of over 30,000 kids through the platform to distribute promotional items to their friends on behalf of bands he managed through “hand-to-hand” promotion.\n\nIn 2004, Benveniste signed a joint venture deal to move the Velvet Hammer music label from Atlantic Records to Columbia Records over a several year period. Under the terms of the deal, Velvet Hammer clients Taproot, Poison the Well and Gratitude would continue to record with Atlantic, while Benveniste signed OneRepublic to Columbia. Afterwards, Sony/ATV and Velvet Hammer Music collaborated to publish the ASCAP award winning song \"Apologize\" by OneRepublic. Benveniste already had a long established relationship with Columbia and its parent, Sony, having first brought System of a Down to Columbia in 1996 and at one time managing Mudvayne, signed to Sony's Epic Records. In 2008, Velvet Hammer signed a three-year deal with Sony subsidiary RED Distribution, which handled the marketing and publicity for Taproot's album \"Our Long Road Home\".\n\nIn 1999, Velvet Hammer was drawn into a feud with Fred Durst of Limp Bizkit when Taproot chose to sign with Velvet Hammer Management rather than Interscope.\n\n"}
{"id": "23718644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23718644", "title": "West End theatre producer", "text": "West End theatre producer\n\nA West End theatre producer (or West End producer) is a theatre producer who causes theatrical productions to be presented in one or more of the 40 West End theatres of London, as defined by the governing body of West End producers, The Society of London Theatre.\n\nNot to be confused with a Regional (or Provincial) theatre producer who has never, or does not choose, to produce in the theatres of the West End of London. Their governing body is the Theatrical Management Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "39285472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39285472", "title": "Witham bowl", "text": "Witham bowl\n\nThe Witham bowl is a missing piece of Anglo-Saxon silverware, described by T. D. Kendrick in \"The Antiquaries Journal\" in 1941 as \"the most remarkable piece of pre-Conquest plate ever found in England\". It was last seen at the National Exhibition of Works of Art at Leeds General Infirmary in 1868, when it was owned by art historian John Heywood Hawkins.\n\nThe hanging bowl is named after the River Witham in Lincolnshire, where it was discovered at Washingborough in 1816, along with several other articles - including a wooden canoe - in the course of drainage works. Its discovery was reported in the \"Stamford Journal\" of 19 April 1816. It is thought to have been made in the late 8th or early 9th century, and has a diameter of approximately and height of approximately .\n\nThe richly decorated piece is an evolved \"C bowl\" with a broad circular indentation underneath. Foliate and vine-scroll filigree work decorates the top and bottom surfaces of the flat central indentation. In the middle of the bowl, on the top surface of the indentation, stands a long-necked dog-like animal, with blue glass eyes, tall enough to peer over the rim of the bowl; around it are arranged four small projecting animals heads. Semi-precious stones are also mounted inside the bowl. Equally spaced around the rim are four animal heads as the tops of loop escutcheons that extend down the sides of the bowl, held on with rivets and decorated with millefiori panels, terminating with small projecting human heads below the bowl. The loop escutcheons would allow the bowl to be suspended. There is a deep groove around the outside of the bowl, below the rim. The bowl may have been used to contain water, but, like other hanging bowls, its intended function is not certainly known. It has been compared to the 8th century Ormside bowl. The filigree decoration resembles the Kirkoswald brooch and the blue glass recalls the Ardagh Chalice. The choice of material is unusual: almost all other hanging bowls are bronze.\n\nOther Anglo-Saxon articles have been found in the River Witham, including pins. The bowl may have been deposited in the river from a causeway, as a votive offering.\n\nThe current location of the bowl is unknown. It may have been sold by Christie's in the 1920s, as part of the sale of a collection. It is known from full-scale colour-tinted drawings held by the Society of Antiquaries of London.\n\n"}
