{"id": "47766759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47766759", "title": "Alcaligenes viscolactis", "text": "Alcaligenes viscolactis\n\nAlcaligenes viscolactis is a bacterium which can produce ropiness in milk and which can grow in sun tea.\n"}
{"id": "22866651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22866651", "title": "Amir Hossein Heshmat Saran", "text": "Amir Hossein Heshmat Saran\n\nAmir Hussein Heshmat Saran (1960 ~ 6 March 2009) was the founder of the Iran National Unity Front political party. Sentenced to prison for this act he died incarcerated and is thought by some human rights groups to be one of a series of political prisoners whose deaths have \"occurred as a result of insufficient medical care provided by prison medical staff.\" \n\nIn 2004, the Tehran Revolutionary Court sentenced Heshmat Saran to eight years in prison for his political activities, including participation in Iran Students' Day demonstrations, and organizing the Iran National Unity Front, (\"jebhe-yeh etehaad-e melli\"), an illegal opposition group which advocated for a more democratic Iran. At the beginning of his detention, Heshmat Saran published articles which described his experience inside the jail and with the help of members of the Iran National Unity Front, this information was distributed to websites and Iranian satellite channels in the United States. For this action, his eight-year sentence was increased to 16 years. Later he suffered heart attacks, despite which he was not allowed to take relief time from prison. His health continued to deteriorate and in November 2008 he \"fell unconscious for about six hours\" in Gohardasht Prison. In March he died in Raja’i Shahr prison. According to his wife, \"the medical specialist who treated him told me he had brain hemorrhaging, and a lung infection which had spread throughout his body, that he should have been brought in sooner.\" According to other political prisoners, his death could have been \"easily been avoided had prison doctors allowed him to seek medical care outside of prison.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "14263749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14263749", "title": "Ammonium malate", "text": "Ammonium malate\n\nAmmonium malate is a compound with formula NH(CHO(COO)). It is the ammonium salt of malic acid. It is used as a food additive and has the E number E349.\n\nThere is a recommendation to avoid this food additive.\n"}
{"id": "20319762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20319762", "title": "Anti-Qing sentiment", "text": "Anti-Qing sentiment\n\nAnti-Qing sentiment () refers to a sentiment principally held in China against the Manchu ruling during the Qing dynasty (1644–1912), which was accused by a number of opponents of being barbarian. The Qing was accused of destroying traditional Han culture by forcing Han to wear their hair in a queue in the Manchu style. It was blamed for suppressing Chinese science, causing China to be transformed from the world's premiere power to a poor, backwards nation. The people of the Eight Banners lived off government pensions unlike the general Han civilian population.\n\nThe rallying slogan of anti-Qing activists was \"Fǎn Qīng fù Míng\" (simplified Chinese: 反淸复明; traditional Chinese: 反淸復明; literally: \"Oppose Qing and restore Ming\").\n\nIn the broadest sense, an anti-Qing activist was anyone who engaged in anti-Manchu direct action. This included people from many mainstream political movements and uprisings, such as Taiping Rebellion, the Xinhai Revolution, the Revolt of the Three Feudatories, the Revive China Society, the Tongmenghui, the Panthay Rebellion, White Lotus Rebellion, and others.\n\nHui Muslim Ming loyalists under Mi Layin and Ding Guodong fought against the Qing to restore a Ming prince to the throne from 1646-1650. When the Qing dynasty invaded the Ming dynasty in 1644, Muslim Ming loyalists in Gansu led by Muslim leaders Milayin and Ding Guodong led a revolt in 1646 against the Qing during the Milayin rebellion in order to drive the Qing out and restore the Ming Prince of Yanchang Zhu Shichuan to the throne as the emperor. The Muslim Ming loyalists were supported by Hami's Sultan Sa'id Baba and his son Prince Turumtay. The Muslim Ming loyalists were joined by Tibetans and Han Chinese in the revolt. After fierce fighting, and negotiations, a peace agreement was agreed on in 1649, and Milayan and Ding nominally pledged allegiance to the Qing and were given ranks as members of the Qing military. When other Ming loyalists in southern China made a resurgence and the Qing were forced to withdraw their forces from Gansu to fight them, Milayan and Ding once again took up arms and rebelled against the Qing. The Muslim Ming loyalists were then crushed by the Qing with 100,000 of them, including Milayin, Ding Guodong, and Turumtay killed in battle.\n\nThe Confucian Hui Muslim scholar Ma Zhu (1640–1710) served with the southern Ming loyalists against the Qing.\n\nThe Ming loyalist general Zheng Chenggong, better known by his title Koxinga, led a military movement to oppose the Qing dynasty from 1646 to 1662. He established the Kingdom of Tungning on the island of Taiwan.\n\nJoseon Korea operated within the Ming tributary system and had a strong alliance with the Ming during the Japanese invasions of Korea (1592–98). This put Joseon in a dilemma when both Nurhaci and the Ming requested support. King Gwanghaegun tried to maintain neutrality, but most of his officials opposed him for not supporting the Ming, a longstanding ally.\n\nIn 1623 King Gwanghaegun was deposed and replaced by King Injo (r. 1623–1649), who banished Gwanghaejun's supporters. Reverting his predecessor's foreign policy, the new king decided to support the Ming openly, but a rebellion led by military commander Yi Gwal erupted in 1624 and wrecked Joseon's military defenses in the north. Even after the rebellion had been suppressed, King Injo had to devote military forces to ensure the stability of the capital, leaving fewer soldiers to defend the northern borders.\n\nThe Manchus invaded Korea twice, in 1627 and 1636, eventually forcing Joseon to sever its ties with the Ming and instead to become a tributary of the Manchus. However, there remained popular opposition to the Manchus in Korea. Joseon continued to use the Ming calendar rather than the Qing calendar, and Koreans continued to wear Ming-style clothing and hairstyles, rather than the Manchu queue. After the fall of the Ming dynasty, Joseon Koreans saw themselves as continuing the traditions of Neo-Confucianism.\n\nThe Mongols under Qing rule were divided into three primary groups- the Inner Mongols, the Outer Khalkha Mongols, and the Eastern Oirat Mongols.\n\nThe Inner Mongolian Chahar Khan Ligdan Khan, a descendant of Genghis Khan, opposed and fought against the Qing until he died of smallpox in 1634. Thereafter, the Inner Mongols under his son Ejei Khan surrendered to the Qing in 1636 and was given the title of Prince (Qin Wang, 親王), and Inner Mongolian nobility became closely tied to the Qing royal family and intermarried with them extensively. Ejei Khan died in 1661 and was succeeded by his brother Abunai. After Abunai showed disaffection with Manchu Qing rule, he was placed under house arrested in 1669 in Shenyang and the Kangxi Emperor gave his title to his son Borni. Abunai then bid his time and then he and his brother Lubuzung revolted against the Qing in 1675 during the Revolt of the Three Feudatories, with 3,000 Chahar Mongol followers joining in on the revolt. The Qing then crushed the rebels in a battle on April 20, 1675, killing Abunai and all his followers. Their title was abolished, all Chahar Mongol royal males were executed even if they were born to Manchu Qing princesses, and all Chahar Mongol royal females were sold into slavery except the Manchu Qing princesses. The Chahar Mongols were then put under the direct control of the Qing Emperor unlike the other Inner Mongol leagues which maintained their autonomy.\n\nThe Khalkha Mongols were more reluctant to come under Qing rule, only submitting to the Kangxi Emperor after they came under an invasion from the Oirat Mongol Dzungar Khanate under its leader Galdan.\n\nThe Oirat Khoshut Upper Mongols in Qinghai rebelled against the Qing during the reign of the Yongzheng Emperor but were crushed and defeated.\n\nThe Oirat Mongol Dzungars in the Dzungar Khanate offered outright resistance and war against the Qing for decades until they Qing annihilated the Dzungars in the Dzungar genocide. Khalkha Mongol rebels under Prince Chingünjav had plotted with the Dzungar leader Amursana and led a rebellion against the Qing at the same time as the Dzungars. The Qing crushed the rebellion and executed Chingünjav and his entire family.\n\nDuring the Xinhai Revolution, the Outer Khalkha Mongols staged an uprising against the Qing and expelled the Manchu Ambans.\n\nHong Xiuquan (洪秀全, Hóng Xiùquán) was a Hakka Chinese who was the leader of the Taiping Rebellion (1850–1864) against the Qing dynasty. He proclaimed himself to be the Heavenly King, established the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom and called Jesus Christ his brother.\n\nDriven by their fierce hatred of Manchus, the Taiping launched a massive genocide against the Manchus to exterminate their entire race.\n\nThe genocide of Manchus was incredible, in every city they captured, the Taiping immediately rushed into the Manchu quarter of the city and killed all the Manchus. One Qing loyalist observed in the province of Hunan of the genocidal atrocities committed by the Taiping against the Manchus and wrote of the \"pitiful Manchus\", Manchu men, women and children who were exterminated by the Taiping with their swords. Once Hefei capitulated, the Taiping rushed into the Manchu quarter shouting \"Kill the demons (Manchus)!\" while engaging in their genocidal massacre of all the Manchus living there. Ningbo's entire Manchu population was also annihilated by them. The Taiping exterminated 40,000 Manchus in Nanjing. On 27 October 1853 they crossed the Yellow River in T'sang-chou and butchered 10,000 Manchus.\n\nWhen news reached their ears that the Taipings succeeded in conquered Nanjing, the anti-Manchu Cantonese in the Pearl River Delta saw this as an opportunity and possibility of overthrowing the Manchus to restore Han rule over China, and began the Red Turban Rebellion (1854–1856). These rebels were called 'Red Turbans' because of the red headscarves they wore.\n\nThe Red Turban Rebellion was initially quite successful as the rebels gained control of a considerable amount of territory. On July 1854, Foshan was occupied by the rebel. In a desperate attempt to the eradicate any facilities which may support the Red Turbans, the Qing forces burnt the northern suburbs in Guangzhou to prevent it from sheltering the rebels.\n\nThe rebellion was ultimately defeated in 1856, which was followed by the mass execution of suspected sympathisers and participants of the rebellion.\n\nThe Panthay Rebellion leader Du Wenxiu declared his intention of overthrowing the Qing and driving the Manchus out of China. The rebellion started after massacres of Hui perpetrated by the Manchu authorities. Du used anti-Manchu rhetoric in his rebellion against the Qing, calling for Han to join the Hui to overthrow the Manchu Qing after 200 years of their rule. Du invited the fellow Hui Muslim leader Ma Rulong to join him in driving the Manchu Qing out and \"recover China\". For his war against Manchu \"oppression\", Du \"became a Muslim hero\", while Ma Rulong defected to the Qing. On multiple occasions Kunming was attacked and sacked by Du Wenxiu's forces. His capital was Dali. The revolt ended in 1873. Du Wenxiu is regarded as a hero by the present day government of China.\n\nTibetan Buddhist Lamas rebelled against the Qing at Batang during the 1905 Tibetan Rebellion, assassinating the Manchu leader Fengquan, and also killing French Catholic missionaries and Tibetan converts to Catholicism.\n\nBorn in Sichuan province in West China in 1885 to a merchant family, Zou (1885–1905) received a classical education but refused to sit for the civil service exams. He worked as a seal carver while pursuing classical studies. He gradually became interested in Western ideas and went to Japan to study in 1901, where he was exposed to radical revolutionary and anti-Manchu ideas.\n\nHere are some quotations of Zou Rong:\n\n\"Sweep away millennia of despotism in all its forms, throw off millennia of slavishness, annihilate the five million and more of the furry and horned Manchu race, cleanse ourselves of 260 years of harsh and unremitting pain\"\n\"I do not begrudge repeating over and over again that internally we are slaves of the Manchus and suffering from their tyranny, externally we are being harassed by the Powers, and we are doubly enslaved.\"\n\"Kill the emperor set up by the Manchus as a warning to the myriad generations that despotic government is not to be revived.\"\n\"Settle the name of the country as the Republic of China.\"\n\nThe Xinhai Revolution () of 1911 was catalysed by the triumph of the Wuchang Uprising, when the victorious Wuchang revolutionaries telegraphed the other provinces asking them to declare their independence, and 15 provinces in Southern China and Central China did so.\n\nThe revolution also saw widespread violence and massacres targeted against Manchu Banner garrisons in cities throughout China. These notorious massacres of Manchus include the mass-slaughter which happened in Wuhan where 10,000 Manchus were butchered and in Xi'an where another 20,000 Manchus were obliterated.\n\nFinally after more than two centuries, the Qing Dynasty was overthrown and China was established into a new republic.\n\nTexts which contained anti-Manchu content were banned by President Yuan Shikai during the Republic of China (1912–49).\n\n"}
{"id": "29687531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29687531", "title": "Asset (computer security)", "text": "Asset (computer security)\n\nIn information security, computer security and network security, an asset is any data, device, or other component of the environment that supports information-related activities. Assets generally include hardware (e.g. servers and switches), software (e.g. mission critical applications and support systems) and confidential information. Assets should be protected from illicit access, use, disclosure, alteration, destruction, and/or theft, resulting in loss to the organization.\n\nThe goal of Information Security is to ensure the Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability of assets from various threats. For example, a hacker might attack a system in order to steal credit card numbers by exploiting a vulnerability. Information Security experts must assess the likely impact of an attack and employ appropriate countermeasures. In this case they might put up a firewall and encrypt their credit card numbers.\n\nWhen performing risk analysis it is important to weigh how much to spend protecting each asset against the cost of losing the asset. It is also important to take into account the chance of each loss occurring. Intangible costs must also be factored in. If a hacker makes a copy of all a company's credit card numbers it does not cost them anything directly but the loss in fines and reputation can be enormous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38802836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38802836", "title": "Ba'athism", "text": "Ba'athism\n\nBa'athism (, \"al-Baʿathīyah\" , from بعث \"baʿath\" , meaning \"renaissance\" or \"resurrection\") is an Arab nationalist ideology that promotes the development and creation of a unified Arab state through the leadership of a vanguard party over a progressive revolutionary government. The ideology is officially based on the theories of the Syrian intellectuals Michel Aflaq (according to the Iraqi-led Ba'ath Party), Zaki al-Arsuzi (according to the Syrian-led Ba'ath Party) and Salah al-Din al-Bitar.\n\nA Ba'athist society seeks enlightenment, renaissance of Arab culture, values and society. It supports the creation of one-party states and rejects political pluralism in an unspecified length of time – the Ba'ath party theoretically uses an unspecified amount of time to develop an enlightened Arabic society. Ba'athism is based on principles of Arab nationalism, pan-Arabism, Arab socialism as well as social progress and it is a secular ideology. A Ba'athist state supports socialist economics to a varying degree and supports public ownership over the heights of the economy, but opposes the confiscation of private property. Socialism in Ba'athist ideology does not mean state socialism or economic equality, but modernisation and Ba'athists believe that socialism is the only way to develop an Arab society which is truly free and united.\n\nThe two Ba'athist states which have existed (Iraq and Syria) forbade criticism of their ideology through authoritarian governance. These governments have been labelled as neo-Ba'athist because the form of Ba'athism developed in Iraq and Syria was very different from the Ba'athism of Aflaq and al-Bitar.\n\nThe origins of Ba'athism began with the political thought developed by Zaki al-Arsuzi and Michel Aflaq. While Aflaq, Bitar and Arsuzi were never members of the same organization, they are considered the founders of Ba'athism. The closest they ever came to being members of the same organization was in 1939, when those three together with Michel Quzman, Shakir al-As and Ilyas Qandalaft, tried to establish a party. This did not happen because Arsuzi personally disliked Aflaq and Aflaq seemed to have reciprocated the feeling.\n\nArsuzi formed the Arab Ba'ath Party in 1940 and his views influenced Aflaq, who alongside junior partner Salah al-Din al-Bitar founded the Arab Ihya Movement in 1940 that later renamed itself the Arab Ba'ath Movement in 1943. Though Aflaq was influenced by him, Arsuzi initially did not cooperate with Aflaq's movement. Arsuzi suspected that the existence of the Arab Ihya Movement, which occasionally titled itself \"Arab Ba'ath\" during 1941, was part of an imperialist plot to prevent his influence over the Arabs by creating a movement of the same name.\n\nArsuzi was an Arab from Alexandretta who had been associated with Arab nationalist politics during the interwar period. He was inspired by the French Revolution, the German and Italian unification movements and the Japanese economic \"miracle\". His views were influenced by a number of prominent European philosophical and political figures, among them Georg Hegel, Karl Marx, Friedrich Nietzsche and Oswald Spengler.\n\nWhen Arsuzi left the League of Nationalist Action (LNA) party in 1939 after its popular leader died and the party had fallen into disarray, he founded the short-lived Arab National Party in 1939 and dissolved it later that year. On 29 November 1940, Arsuzi founded the Arab Ba'ath. A significant conflict and turning point in the development of Ba'athism occurred when Arsuzi's and Aflaq's movements sparred over the issue of the 1941 coup d'etat by Rashid Ali al-Gaylani and the subsequent Anglo-Iraqi War. Aflaq's movement supported al-Gaylani's government and the Iraqi government's war against the British and organized volunteers to go to Iraq and fight for the Iraqi government. However, Arsuzi opposed al-Gaylani's government, considering the coup to be poorly-planned and a failure. At this point, Arsuzi's party lost members and support that transferred to Aflaq's movement.\n\nSubsequently, Arsuzi's direct influence in Arab politics collapsed after Vichy French authorities expelled him from Syria in 1941. Aflaq's Arab Ba'ath Movement's next major political action was its support of Lebanon's war of independence from France in 1943. The Arab Ba'ath Movement did not solidify for years until it held its first party congress in 1947, when it merged with the Arab Socialist Party led by Akram al-Hawrani to establish the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party.\n\nIn 1966, the Ba'ath movement split in half: one Syrian-dominated and one Iraqi-dominated. Scholar Ofra Bengio claims that a consequence of the split was that Arsuzi took Aflaq's place as the official father of Ba'athist thought in the pro-Syrian Ba'ath movement while in the pro-Iraqi Ba'ath movement Aflaq was still considered the \"de jure\" father of Ba'athist thought.\n\nAflaq is today considered the founder of the Ba'athist movement, or at least its most notable contributor. There were other notable ideologues as well, such as Arsuzi and Salah al-Din al-Bitar. From the founding of the Arab Ba'ath Movement until the mid-1950s in Syria and the early 1960s in Iraq, the ideology of the Ba'ath Party was largely synonymous with that of Aflaq's. Aflaq's view on Arab nationalism is considered by some, such as historian Paul Salem of the Middle East Institute, as romantic and poetic.\n\nIn intellectual terms, Aflaq recast the conservative Arab nationalist thoughts and changed them to reflect a strong revolutionary and progressive tendency which developed in harmony alongside the decolonisation and other events which happened in the Arab world at the time of his life. He insisted on the overthrow of the old ruling classes and supported the creation of a secular society by separating Islam from the state. Not all these ideas were his, but it was Aflaq who succeeded in turning these beliefs into a transnational movement. The core basis of Ba'athism is Arab socialism, a socialism with Arab characteristics which is not associated with the international socialist movement and pan-Arab ideology.\n\nBa'athism as developed by Aflaq and Bitar was a unique left-wing Arab-centric ideology. The ideology presented itself as representing the \"Arab spirit against materialistic communism\" and \"Arab history against dead reaction\". It held ideological similarity and a favourable outlook to the Non-Aligned Movement politics of Jawaharlal Nehru, Gamal Abdel Nasser and Josip Broz Tito and historically opposed affiliation with either the American-led Western Bloc or the Soviet-led Eastern Bloc during the Cold War.\n\nAflaq supported Sati' al-Husri's view that language was the principal defining unifying factor of the Arab nation because language led to the unity of thought, norms and ideals. History was also another unifying feature, as it was the \"fertile ground in which our consciousness took shape\". The centre of Aflaq's Ba'athist thought was the feature \"ba'ath\" (literally meaning \"renaissance\").\n\nThis renaissance could only be reached by uniting the Arab state and it would transform the Arab world politically, economically, intellectually and morally. This \"future renaissance\" would be a \"rebirth\", while the first Arab renaissance had been the seventh-century emergence of Islam, according to Aflaq. The new \"renaissance\" would bring another Arab message, which was summed up in the Ba'ath party's slogan \"One Nation, Bearing an Eternal Message\".\n\nThe Arab nation could only reach this \"renaissance\" through a revolutionary process towards the goals of \"unity, liberty and socialism\". In Aflaq's view, a nation could only \"progress\" or \"decline\". Arab states of his time could only progressively \"decline\" because of their illnesses – \"feudalism, sectarianism, regionalism, intellectual reactionism\". These problems, Aflaq believed, could only be resolved through a revolutionary process. A revolution could only succeed if the revolutionaries were pure and devoted nearly religiously to the task. Aflaq supported the Leninist view of the need of a vanguard party following a successful revolution, which was not an \"inevitable outcome\". In Ba'athist ideology, the vanguard was the Ba'ath party.\n\nAflaq believed that the youth were the key for a successful revolution. The youth were open to change and enlightenment because they still had not been indoctrinated with other views. According to Aflaq, a major problem was the disillusionment of the Arab youth. Disillusionment led to individualism and individualism was not a healthy sign in an underdeveloped country, in contrast to developed countries, where it was a healthy sign.\n\nThe party's main task before the revolution was to spread enlightened ideas to the people and to challenge reactionary and conservative elements in society. According to Aflaq, a Ba'ath party would ensure a policy of proselytization to keep the uneducated masses out of the party until the party leadership was enlightened with the thoughts of enlightenment. However, the party was also a political organisation and as Aflaq's notes politics was \"a means [...] is the most serious of matters at this present stage\". Ba'athism was similar to Leninist thought in that a vanguard party would rule for an unspecified length to construct a \"new society\".\n\nAflaq supported the idea of a committed activist revolutionary party based on the Leninist model, which in practice was based on democratic centralism. The revolutionary party would seize political power and from there on transform society for the greater good. While the revolutionary party was numerically a minority, it was an all-powerful institution which had the right to initiate a policy even if the majority of the population were against it. As with the Leninist model, the Ba'ath party knew what was right and what was wrong since the population as a whole did not know this yet as they were still influenced by the old value and moral system.\n\nAccording to Aflaq, the Arab Revolt (1916–1918) against the Ottoman Empire failed to unify the Arab world because it was led by a reactionary class. He believed the ruling class, who supported the monarchy as the leaders of the Arab Revolt did, were synonymous with a reactionary class. In Ba'athist ideology, the ruling class is replaced by a revolutionary progressive class. Aflaq was bitterly opposed to any kind of monarchy and described the Arab Revolt as \"the illusions of kings and feudal lords who understood unity as the gathering of backwardness to backwardness, exploitation to exploitation and numbers to numbers like sheep\".\n\nIt was the reactionary class's view of Arab unity which had left the Arab Revolt \"struggle for unity without blood and nerve\". Aflaq saw the German unification as proof of this. This view put Aflaq at odds with some Arab nationalists who were Germanophiles. According to Aflaq, Bismarck's unification of Germany established the most repressive nation the world had ever seen, a development which could largely be blamed on the existing monarchy and the reactionary class. According to Aflaq, to copy the German example would be disastrous and would lead to the enslavement of the Arab people.\n\nThe only way to combat the reactionary classes laid in \"progressive\" revolution, central to which is the struggle for unity. This struggle could not be separated from the social revolution – to separate these two would be the same as to weaken the movement. The reactionary classes, who are content with the \"status quo\", would oppose the \"progressive\" revolution. Even if the revolution succeeded in one \"region\" (country), that region would be unable to develop because of the resource constraints, small populations and the anti-revolution forces held by other Arab leaders. For a revolution to succeed, the Arab world would have to evolve into an \"organic whole\" (literally become one). In short, Arab unity is both the cause of the \"progressive\" revolution and its effect.\n\nA major obstacle to the success of the revolution is the Arab League. Aflaq believed that the Arab League strengthened both regional interests and the reactionary classes, thus weakening the chance of establishing an Arab nation. Because of the world situation where the majority of Arab states were under the rule of the reactionary classes, Aflaq revised his ideology to meet reality. Instead of creating an Arab nation through an Arab-wide progressive revolution, the main task would be of progressive revolutionaries spreading the revolution from one Arab country to the next. Once successfully transformed, the created progressive revolutionary countries would then one by one unite until the Arab world had evolved into a single Arab nation. The revolution would not succeed if the progressive revolutionary governments did not contribute to spreading the revolution.\n\nFundamentally, Aflaq had an authoritarian perspective on liberty. In contrast to the liberal democratic concept of liberty, in Aflaq's vision liberty would be ensured by a Ba'ath party which was not elected by the populace because the party had the common good at heart. Historian Paul Salem considered the weakness of such a system \"quite obvious\".\n\nAflaq saw liberty as one of the defining features of Ba'athism. Articulation of thoughts and the interaction between individuals were a way of building a new society. According to Aflaq, it was liberty which created new values and thoughts. Aflaq believed that living under imperialism, colonialism, religious or a non-enlightened dictatorship weakened liberty as ideas came from above, not from below through human interaction. One of the Ba'ath party's main priorities according to Aflaq was to disseminate new ideas and thoughts and to give individuals the liberty they needed to pursue ideas as the party would interpose itself between the Arab people and both their foreign imperialist oppressors and those forms of tyranny that arise within Arab society.\n\nWhile the notion of liberty was an important ideal to Aflaq, he favored the Leninist model of a continuous revolutionary struggle and he did not develop concepts for a society in which liberty was protected by a set of institutions and rules. His vision of a one-party state ruled by the Ba'ath party, which disseminated information to the public, was in many ways contrary to his view on individual interactions. The Ba'ath party through its preeminence would establish \"liberty\". According to Aflaq, liberty could not just come from nowhere as it needed an enlightened progressive group to create a truly free society.\n\nAflaq deeply supported some Marxist tenets and he considered the Marxist concept of the \"importance of material economic conditions in life\" to be one of modern humanity's greatest discoveries. However, he disagreed with the Marxist view that dialectical materialism was the only truth as Aflaq believed that Marxism had forgotten human's spirituality. While believing that the concept would work for small and weak societies, the concept of dialectical materialism as the only truth in Arab development was wrong.\n\nFor a people as spiritual as the Arabs, the working class was just a group, albeit the most important group, in a much larger movement to free the Arab nation. Unlike Karl Marx, Aflaq was uncertain what place the working class had in history. In contrast to Marx, Aflaq also believed in nationalism and believed that in the Arab world all classes and not just the working class were working against \"capitalist domination of the foreign powers\". What was a struggle between various classes in the West was in the Arab world a fight for political and economic independence.\n\nFor Aflaq, socialism was a necessary means to accomplishing the goal of initiating an Arabic \"renaissance\" period, in other words a period of modernisation. While unity brought the Arab world together and liberty provided the Arab people with freedom, socialism was the cornerstone which made unity and liberty possible as no socialism meant no revolution. In Aflaq's view, a constitutional democratic system would not succeed in a country such as Syria that was dominated by a \"pseudo-feudalist\" economic system in which the repression of the peasant nullified the people's political liberty. Liberty meant little to nothing to the general poverty-stricken populace of Syria and Aflaq saw socialism as the solution to their plight.\n\nAccording to Aflaq, the ultimate goal of socialism's not to answer the question of how much state control was necessary or economic equality, but instead socialism was \"a means to satisfy the animal needs of man so he can be free to pursue his duties as a human being\". In other words, socialism was a system which freed the population from enslavement and created independent individuals. However, economic equality was a major tenet in Ba'athist ideology as the elimination of inequality would \"eliminate all privilege, exploitation, and domination by one group over another\". In short, if liberty was to succeed, the Arab people needed socialism.\n\nAflaq labeled this form of socialism Arab socialism to signify that it existed in harmony with and was in some ways subordinate to Arab nationalism. According to Aflaq, who was a Christian, the teaching and reforms of Muhammad had given socialism an authentic Arab expression. Socialism was viewed by Aflaq as justice and the reforms of Muhammad were both just and wise. In modern times, the Ba'athist would initiate another way of just and radical forms just as Muhammad had done in the seventh century.\n\nThough a Christian, Aflaq viewed the creation of Islam as proof of \"Arab genius\" and a testament of Arab culture, values and thought. According to Aflaq, the essence of Islam was its revolutionary qualities. Aflaq called on all Arabs, both Muslims and non-Muslims alike, to admire the role Islam had played in creating an Arab character, but his view on Islam was purely spiritual and Aflaq emphasized that it \"should not be imposed\" on state and society. Time and again Aflaq emphasized that the Ba'ath party was against atheism, but also against fundamentalism as the fundamentalists represented a \"shallow, false faith\".\n\nAccording to Ba'athist ideology, all religions were equal. Despite his anti-atheist stance, Aflaq was a strong supporter of secular government and stated a Ba'athist state would replace religion with a state \"based on a foundation, Arab nationalism, and a moral; freedom\". During the Shia riots against the Iraqi Ba'ath government in the late-1970s, Aflaq warned Saddam Hussein of making any concessions to the rioters, exclaiming that the Ba'ath Party \"is with [religious] faith, but is not a religious party, nor should it be one\". During his vice presidency, at the time of the Shia riots Saddam discussed the need to convince large segments of the population to convert to the party line's stance on religion.\n\nSaddam's stance on secularization changed following the Iran–Iraq War, when a law was passed allowing men to kill their sisters, daughters and wives if they were unfaithful. When Aflaq died in 1989, an official announcement by the Iraqi Regional Command stated that Aflaq had converted to Islam before his death, but an unnamed Western diplomat in Iraq told William Harris that Aflaq's family was not aware that he had undergone any religious conversion. Prior, during and after the Gulf War, the government became progressively more Islamic and by the beginning of the 1990s Saddam proclaimed the Ba'ath party to be the party \"of Arabism and Islam\".\n\nAbraham Ben-Tzur labeled the Ba'ath Party which took power in the 8th of March Revolution in Syria and had taken power in Iraq as the \"Neo-Ba'ath\" for the reason that the Ba'ath Party had dumped their pan-Arab credentials. The key party document \"Some Theoretical Propositions\" states that \"[s]ocialism is the true goal of Arab unity... Arab unity is the obligatory basis for constructing a socialist society\". In short, pan-Arabism became the means to reach the end of both economic and social transformation. John F. Devlin agrees on the matter and states that the \"Ba'ath Party, which started with unity as its overwhelming top priority, which was prepared to work within a variety of Middle Eastern political systems, which wanted social justice in society, had pretty much disappeared by the early 1960s. In its place rose Ba'ath organisations which focused primarily on their own region, which advocated, and created where possible, authoritarian centralised governments, which rested heavily on military power and which were very close to other socialist movements and were less distinctively Ba'athist\". Munif al-Razzaz, the former Secretary General of the National Command of the unitary Ba'ath Party, agreed with the theory and stated that from 1961 onwards there existed two Ba'ath parties – \"the military Ba'ath Party and the Ba'ath Party, and real power lay with the former\". He further stated that the military Ba'ath (as paraphrased by Martin Seymour) \"was and remains Ba'athist only in name; that it was and remains little more than a military clique with civilian hangers-on; and that from the initial founding of the Military Committee by disgruntled Syrian officers exiled in Cairo in 1959, the chain of events and the total corruption of Ba'athism proceeded with intolerable logic\". Salah al-Din al-Bitar agreed, stating that the 1966 Syrian coup d'état \"marked the end of Ba'athist politics in Syria\". Aflaq shared the sentiment by stating: \"I no longer recognise my party!\".\nSalah Jadid's government abandoned the traditional goal of pan-Arab unity and replaced it with a radical form of Western socialism. This emerged in the terminology of the government; terms such as \"people's war\" (itself a Maoist term, as the Six-Day War was proclaimed as a \"people's war\" against Israel) and class struggle were used often. The Syrian Communist Party played an important role in Jadid's government as some communists held ministerial posts and Jadid established \"fairly close relations\" with the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. The government supported a more radical economic program, state ownership over industry and foreign trade while at the same time trying to restructure agrarian relations and production. In 1968, al-Bitar left the Ba'ath movement, claiming that \"these parties had ceased to be what they set up to be, retaining only their names and acting as the organs of power and the instruments of regional and dictatorial governments\". Contrary to expectations, Aflaq remained with the Ba'ath movement and became the ideologue of the Iraqi-dominated Ba'ath movement. His ideological views remained more or less the same, but in Iraq he was sidelined politically.\n\nFrom 1970, when Hafez al-Assad took power, Syria has been under the control of the al-Assad family. Assad's government was a personal government, meaning a government that is based upon and revolves around the leader and the term “Assadism” was coined to explain how Assad's leadership dominates Syrian politics. The authorities have tried to portray the wisdom of Assad as \"beyond the comprehension of the average citizen\". Assadism and the neo-Ba'athist government which currently runs Syria are both based upon nepotism and ethnic favoritism – it was Assad who began the Alawitisation of the party and the military; and who also began building a government based on loyalty to the leader's family. Jamal al-Atassi, a former co-founder of Zaki al-Arsuzi's Arab Ba'ath Party and later Syrian dissident, claimed that \"Assadism is a false nationalism. It's the domination of a minority, and I'm not talking just of the Alawites, who control the society's nervous system. I include also the army and the mukhabarat. [...] And despite its socialist slogans, the state is run by a class who has made a fortune without contributing–a \"nouvelle bourgeoisie parasitaire\"\". Despite this, Assadism is not an ideology – it is a cult of personality, but it is the closest thing Syria comes to an all-encompassing belief system since both Ba'athist and Arab nationalist beliefs have been watered down to such an extent as to not hurt the government's populist credentials.\n\nSaddamism (\"Saddamiya\") is a political ideology based on the politics related to and pursued by Saddam Hussein. It has also been referred to by Iraqi politicians as Saddamist Ba'athism (\"Al-Ba'athiya Al-Saddamiyya\"). It is officially described as a distinct variation of Ba'athism. It espouses Iraqi nationalism and an Iraq-centred Arab world that calls upon Arab countries to adopt Saddamist Iraqi political discourse and to reject \"the Nasserite discourse\" that it claims collapsed after 1967. It is militarist and views political disputes and conflicts in a military manner as \"battles\" requiring: \"fighting\", \"mobilization\", \"battlefields\", \"bastions\" and \"trenches\". Saddamism was officially supported by Saddam's government and promoted by the Iraqi daily newspaper \"Babil\" owned by Saddam's son Uday Hussein.\n\nSaddam and his ideologists sought to fuse a connection between ancient Babylonian and Assyrian civilization in Iraq with Arab nationalism by claiming that the ancient Babylonians and Assyrians are the ancestors of the Arabs. Thus Saddam and his supporters claimed that there is no conflict between Mesopotamian heritage and Arab nationalism.\n\nSaddam's government was critical of orthodox Marxism and opposed the orthodox Marxist concepts of class conflict, dictatorship of the proletariat and state atheism as well as opposing Marxism–Leninism's claim that non-Marxist–Leninist parties are automatically bourgeois in nature – claiming that the Ba'ath Party is a popular revolutionary movement and that as such the people rejected \"petit bourgeois\" politics. Saddam claimed that the Arab nation did not have the class structure which existed in other nations and that class divisions were more along national lines between Arabs and non-Arabs rather than within the Arab community. However, he spoke fondly of Vladimir Lenin and commended Lenin for giving Russian Marxism a uniquely Russian specificity that Marx alone was incapable of doing. He also expressed admiration for other communist leaders such as Fidel Castro, Hồ Chí Minh and Josip Broz Tito due to their spirit of asserting national independence rather than their communism.\n\nCyprian Blamires claims that \"Ba'athism may have been a Middle Eastern variant of fascism, even though Aflaq and other Ba'ath leaders criticized particular fascist ideas and practices\". According to him, the Ba'ath movement shared several characteristics with the European fascist movements such as \"the attempt to synthesize radical, illiberal nationalism and non-Marxist socialism, a romantic, mythopoetic, and elitist 'revolutionary' vision, the desire both to create a 'new man' and to restore past greatness, a centralised authoritarian party divided into 'right-wing' and 'left-wing' factions and so forth; several close associates later admitted that Aflaq had been directly inspired by certain fascist and Nazi theorists\". An argument against Aflaq's fascist credentials is that he was an active member of the Syrian–Lebanese Communist Party, he participated in the activities of the French Communist Party during his stay in France and that he was influenced by some of the ideas of Karl Marx.\n\nAccording to Sami al-Jundi, one of the co-founders of the Arab Ba'ath Party established by Zaki al-Arsuzi, the party's emblem was the tiger because it would \"excite the imagination of the youth, in the tradition of Nazism and Fascism, but taking into consideration the fact that the Arab is in his nature distant from pagan symbols [like the swastika]\". Arsuzi's Ba'ath Party believed in the virtues of the \"one leader\" and Arsuzi himself believed personally in the racial superiority of the Arabs. The party members read a lot of Nazi literature, such as \"The Foundations of the Nineteenth Century\"; they were one of the first groups to plan the translation of \"Mein Kampf\" into Arabic; and they were also actively looking for a copy of \"The Myth of the Twentieth Century\" – according to Moshe Ma'oz, the only copy in Damascus was owned by Aflaq. Arsuzi did not support the Axis powers and refused Italy's advances for party-to-party relations. Arsuzi was also influenced by the racial theories of Houston Stewart Chamberlain and Nazism. Arsuzi claimed that historically Islam and Muhammad had reinforced the nobility and purity of Arabs, which degenerated in purity because of the adoption of Islam by other people. He had been associated with the League of Nationalist Action, a political party strongly influenced by fascism and Nazism with its paramilitary \"Ironshirts\" and that existed in Syria from 1932 to 1939.\n\nAccording to a British journalist who interviewed Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti, the head of the Iraqi intelligence services, Saddam Hussein drew inspiration on how to rule Iraq from both Joseph Stalin and Adolf Hitler and had asked Barzan to procure their works not for racist or antisemitic purposes, but instead \"as an example of the successful organisation of an entire society by the state for the achievement of national goals.\"\n\nIn Ba'athist Iraq and especially during the Iran–Iraq War, Iran was presented as the age-old enemy of the Arabs. According to Fred Halliday, the Iraqi Ba'athists brought the ideas of Sati' al-Husri to their full, official and racist culmination. For the Ba'athists, their pan-Arab ideology was laced with anti-Iranian racism and it rested on the pursuit of anti-Iranian themes. Over the decade and a half after coming to power, Baghdad organized the expulsion of Iraqis of Iranian origin, beginning with 40,000 Feyli Kurds, but totaling up to 200,000 or more by the early years of the war itself. Such racist policies were reinforced by ideology as in 1981, a year after the start of the Iran–Iraq War, Dar al-Hurriya, the government publishing house, issued \"\" by the author, Khairallah Talfah, the foster-father and father-in-law of Saddam Hussein. Halliday says that it was the Ba'athists too, who claiming to be the defenders of \"Arabism\" on the eastern frontiers brought to the fore the chauvinist myth of Iranian migrants and communities in the Persian Gulf region.\n\n\"Three Whom God Should Not Have Created: Persians, Jews, and Flies\" describes Persians (Iranians) as \"animals God created in the shape of humans\", Jews as a \"mixture of dirt and the leftovers of diverse people\" and flies as poor misunderstood creatures \"whom we do not understand God's purpose in creating\". According to Con Coughlin: \"This weak Iraqi attempt at imitating \"Mein Kampf\" nevertheless had a bearing on Saddam's future policymaking\". The Mauritanian Regional Branch of the Iraqi-dominated Ba'ath movement was accused of being racist by the Mauritanian government and certain political groups.\n\nThe Iraqi Regional Branch could approve or disapprove of marriages of party members and in a party document it was ordered that party branches \"to check thoroughly the Arabic origin of not only the prospective wife but also her family, and no approval should be given to members who plan to marry [someone] of non-Arab origin\". During the war with Iran, the party began to confront members who were of non-Arab, especially Iranian origins. One memo from the party Secretariat sent directly to Saddam read that \"the party suffers from the existence of members who are not originally Arabs as this might constitute a danger to the party in the future\". The Secretariat recommended not giving party membership to people of Iranian origins. In a written reply to the document, Saddam wrote: \"1) [I] Agree with the opinion of the Party Secretariat; 2) To be discussed in the [Regional] Command meeting\". Many of those who were refused, or whose membership had been revoked, were loyal Ba'athists. For instance, one Ba'athist of Iranian origin had been a member of the party since 1958, been a part of the Ramadan Revolution and had been imprisoned by the authorities in the aftermath of the November 1963 Iraqi coup d'état for the Ba'athist cause. Later, the authorities began to specifically look for people of Iraqi origins and any contact with Iran or Iranians functioned as a good enough reason to not be given party membership.\n\n"}
{"id": "111282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=111282", "title": "Bishop Hill, Illinois", "text": "Bishop Hill, Illinois\n\nBishop Hill is a village in Henry County, Illinois, United States, along the South Edwards River. The population was 128 at the 2010 census, up from 125 in 2000. It is the home of the Bishop Hill State Historic Site, a park operated by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.\n\nBishop Hill is located at (41.200711, -90.118327).\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, Bishop Hill has a total area of , all land.\n\nThe village was founded in 1846 by Swedish immigrants affiliated with the Pietist movement, led by Erik Jansson. Prior to founding the Bishop Hill Colony, Jansson preached to his followers in Sweden about what he considered to be the abominations of the Lutheran Church and emphasized the doctrine that the faithful were without sin. As Jansson's ideas became more radical, he began to lose support from many of his sympathizers and was forced to leave Sweden in the midst of growing persecution. Jansson had previously sent Olof Olsson, a trusted follower, as an emissary to the United States to find a suitable location where the Janssonists could set up a utopian community centered on their religious beliefs. According to Jansson, this community would become the \"New Jerusalem\", and their beliefs would soon spread across the world. As a result, 1400 colonists emigrated from Sweden to their new home in western Illinois.\n\nThe colony struggled early on after its founding. Many of the first 1000 colonists died from disease on the way to Bishop Hill (named for Eric Jansson's birthplace, Biskopskulla), while others became disillusioned and stayed in New York. The quarters in Bishop Hill were cold and crowded and food was scarce. After the first winter, life at the colony began to improve. In the next few years housing was upgraded from dugouts to brick living areas, and crops were planted on of land. By 1849, Bishop Hill had constructed a flour mill, two sawmills, a three-story frame church, and various other buildings. The Bishop Hill Colony was communistic in nature, as dictated by Jansson. Thus, everything was owned by everyone and no one had more possessions than another. Work in the colony was highly rigorous and regimented. It wasn't uncommon to see hundreds of people working together in the fields or large groups of laborers engaged in other tasks.\n\nThe Bishop Hill colony underwent a major upheaval in 1850 after the murder of Erik Jansson. Jansson was assassinated by a former colony member, John Root, who was upset with Jansson for interfering with his marriage to one of Jansson's cousins. After their leader's death, the people of Bishop Hill appointed a group of seven trustees to run the affairs of the colony. Among the trustees were Jonas Olsson and Olof Johnson, who would become the primary leaders of the colony as they had been two of Jansson's closest aides. Under these two men and the rest of the trustees, the colony continued to grow and flourish. The workforce was reorganized to become more efficient and more buildings were erected. However, despite Bishop Hill's success, in 1857 financial problems arose in the midst of accusations of mismanagement against Olof Johnson. Johnson had made several large investments, without colony approval, that had turned out to be disastrous. As Bishop Hill headed for financial ruin, colonists voted to end the communal system. In 1861 the formal dissolution of the colony was official, and many of its people would soon be forced to move away.\nThe Janssonist emigrants were a significant group of men and women to move from Sweden to the United States. Letters home from Janssonists to their friends and family, telling of the fertile agricultural land in the interior of North America, stimulated substantial migration for several decades and contributed to the formation of the Swedish-American ethnic community of the American Midwest.\n\nDescendants of Erik Jansson still lived in the colony until December 20, 2004 when Erik's great-great grandson and Bishop Hill volunteer fireman Theodore Arthur Myhre Sr. died south of the Colony while on a fire service call. Other known descendents remain in Illinois.\n\nSurviving buildings built by the Janssonists are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Bishop Hill is interpreted as a living community of Swedish-American heritage. Due to state budget cuts the Bishop Hill State Historic Site was closed for nearly 5 months from December 1, 2008 to April 23, 2009. Today the Site is open Wednesday to Friday during normal business hours.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 125 people, 56 households, and 38 families residing in the village. The population density was 232.0 people per square mile (89.4/km²). There were 59 housing units at an average density of 109.5 per square mile (42.2/km²). The racial makeup of the village was 100.00% White. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.80% of the population. 26.9% were of Swedish, 15.1% American, 14.3% English, 14.3% German, 7.6% Italian and 5.9% Polish ancestry according to Census 2000.\n\nThere were 56 households out of which 23.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 60.7% were married couples living together, 7.1% had a female householder with no husband present, and 30.4% were non-families. 28.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.23 and the average family size was 2.69.\n\nIn the village, the population was spread out with 18.4% under the age of 18, 7.2% from 18 to 24, 16.0% from 25 to 44, 38.4% from 45 to 64, and 20.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 48 years. For every 100 females, there were 89.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 88.9 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the village was $47,083, and the median income for a family was $50,000. Males had a median income of $38,214 versus $18,750 for females. The per capita income for the village was $26,145. None of the population and none of the families were below the poverty line.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, the population was 128, all of which were White, none of whom were Hispanic or Latino (of any race)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33965215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33965215", "title": "Brown–Kaufman amendment", "text": "Brown–Kaufman amendment\n\nThe Brown–Kaufman amendment (or the SAFE Banking Act) was a failed 2010 amendment proposed in the United States Senate to be part of the Dodd–Frank bill by Democratic Senators Sherrod Brown (OH) and Ted Kaufman (DE). It sought to address the moral hazard of too big to fail by breaking up the largest banks with limits on the size of financial institutions. \"The Christian Science Monitor\" said the amendment was based on the idea that \"too big to fail is too big to exist.\" \"The New York Times\" called it a liberal initiative with pure \"populist appeal\".\n\nThe proposal failed on the Senate floor by a vote of 61 to 33 on May 6, 2010. Economist Simon Johnson emphasized that only a handful of Republicans voted for the bill and that the Obama administration opposed the amendment. After the vote, \"The American Prospect\" said the 33 \"Yea\" votes represented a \"fascinating coalition – liberals and conservatives, Democratic leadership and three Republican conservatives.\" \"The New York Times\" said the amendment was strongly opposed by Wall Street; supporters included \"The New York Times\"' editorial page, the editorial board of \"The Christian Science Monitor\", and Simon Johnson.\n\nTo \"The Christian Science Monitor\", former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan hinted at support for the idea behind the amendment with his statement that \"If they’re too big to fail, they're too big.\" Related legislation was passed in the Bank Holding Act of 1970, which gave regulatory powers to the Federal Reserve to cap bank sizes, but it was weakly enforced. A previous (1994) law limited a bank's total deposits to less than 10% of the nation's total, but waivers were issued to JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, and Bank of America.\n\nThe amendment would have capped deposits and other liabilities and restricted bank assets to 10% of US GDP. At the time of the Senate vote, three banks, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, and Bank of America, exceeded that proposed amount. Any one bank's non-deposit liabilities would have been capped at 2% of GDP and for non-bank financial firms, the amount would have been 3%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23487511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23487511", "title": "Canadian League of Rights", "text": "Canadian League of Rights\n\nThe Canadian League of Rights (CLR) was the Canadian offshoot of Eric Butler's Australian League of Rights. Following speaking tours of Canada in the mid-1960s, Eric Butler sought to establish of a local version of his organisation. The CLR was formed in 1968.\n\nThe CLR was run for most of its existence by Ron Gostick and Patrick Walsh. Like its sister organisations the CLR adheres to social credit and anti-semitism. Academic Stanley Barrett, author of \"Is God a Racist? The Right Wing in Canada\" and various studies race and ethnicity in Canada, suggested that the CLR had 10,000 members at its peak. The CLR was described as \"one of Canada's largest and best organized anti-Semitic groups\" in the 1987 book \"A Trust Betrayed\". A notable member was Jim Keegstra. \n\nThe CLR linked with various groups such as the Alliance for the Preservation of English in Canada and ran a book service selling Holocaust denial material. The third Crown Commonwealth League of Rights conference was held in 1983 in Canada. The CLR supported a tour of Canada by David Irving in 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "265355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265355", "title": "Carter Center", "text": "Carter Center\n\nThe Carter Center is a nongovernmental, not-for-profit organization founded in 1982 by former U.S. President Jimmy Carter. He and his wife Rosalynn Carter partnered with Emory University just after his defeat in the 1980 U.S. Presidential elections. The center is located in a shared building adjacent to the Jimmy Carter Library and Museum on of parkland, on the site of the razed neighborhood of Copenhill, two miles (3 km) from downtown Atlanta, Georgia. The library and museum are owned and operated by the United States National Archives and Records Administration, while the Center is governed by a Board of Trustees, consisting of business leaders, educators, former government officials, and philanthropists.\n\nThe Carter Center's goal is to advance human rights and alleviate human suffering, including helping improve the quality of life for people in more than 80 countries. The center has many projects including election monitoring, supporting locally led state-building and democratic institution-building in various countries, mediating conflicts between warring states, and intervening with heads of states on behalf of victims of human rights abuses. It also leads disease eradication efforts, spearheading the campaign to eradicate Guinea worm disease, as well as controlling and treating onchocerciasis, trachoma, lymphatic filariasis, and malaria through awareness campaigns.\n\nIn 2002, President Carter received the Nobel Peace Prize for his work “to find peaceful solutions to international conflicts, to advance democracy and human rights, and to promote economic and social development” through the Carter Center. In 2007, he wrote an autobiography entitled \"Beyond the White House: Waging Peace, Fighting Disease, Building Hope\", which chronicles the first 25 years of The Carter Center.\n\nThe Center was founded in 1982 and dedicated in 1986 with William Foege as its executive director.\n\nIn 1993, John Hardman was appointed executive director, and during the 1990s the Center received several multimillion-dollar donations to fight Guinea worm disease and to prevent blindness.\n\nIn 1994, the center launched an initiative called \"Not Even One\" to fight child death by firearm.\n\nOn October 2, 1995, The Rosalynn Carter Georgia Mental Health Forum was held at The Carter Center.\n\nThe Center is governed by a board of trustees, which oversees the organization’s assets and property and promotes its objectives and goals.\n\nA community advisory group – the Board of Councilors – includes public and private-sector leaders who support The Carter Center and its activities in their communities and organizations. Members attend quarterly presentations on the Center’s work.\n\nCEO (Ret.) Ambassador Mary Ann Peters oversees the Center’s day-to-day operations and staff of 175, which includes international experts in the fields of peace and health. More than 100 student interns from universities around the world assist the staff each year.\n\nCenter-based councils of eminent persons who offer guidance to or participate in Center activities include: the Council of Presidents and Prime Ministers of the Americas, the International Council for Conflict Resolution, the International Task Force for Disease Eradication, and the Mental Health Task Force. The Carter Center also collaborates with other public and private organizations.\n\nThe Carter Center performs election observation, sending teams of observers to determine the legitimacy of 101 elections in 39 countries since 1989.\n\nCarter Center observers analyze election laws, assess voter education and registration processes, and evaluate fairness in campaigns. The presence of impartial election observers deters interference or fraud in the voting process, and reassures voters that they can safely and secretly cast their ballots and that vote tabulation will be conducted without tampering.\n\nTeams typically include 30-100 highly qualified impartial observers – regional leaders, political scientists, regional specialists, and election observation professionals.\n\nThe Carter Center sends observers only when invited by a country’s electoral authorities and welcomed by the major political parties. Observers do not interfere in the electoral process and do not represent the U.S. government.\n\nThe Center played a key role – with the U.N. Electoral Assistance Division and the National Democratic Institute – in building consensus on a common set of international principles for election observation. It is also leading the effort to develop effective methodologies for observing elections that employ new electronic voting technologies.\n\nThe Carter Center supports the growth of democratic institutions to ensure that there is a respect for rule of law and human rights, that government decisions are open and transparent, and that everyone can have adequate resources to compete fairly for public office.\n\nFor example, the Center is supporting the efforts of civic leaders in Ethiopia to convene discussions about the most pressing and contentious political and social issues facing the country, and in the Palestinian Territories, it maintains a small presence in Ramallah focused on the ongoing monitoring and analysis of critical issues of democratic development.\n\nDemocratic initiatives in Latin America include support for regional access-to-information programs, creation of an inter-American support network, and reform of political campaign financing. The Center-based Council of Presidents and Prime Ministers of the Americas plays an important role in accomplishing these objectives.\n\nThe Carter Center also promotes the dissemination to emerging democracies and regional organizations of models, lessons, and best practices for democratic governance. The goal is to empower those in transitioning countries who are trying to build stronger democratic institutions and practices.\n\nThe Carter Center believes all people are entitled to basic human rights. These rights include political rights, such as peace, freedom, and self-governance, as well as the social rights of health care, food, shelter, and economic opportunity.\n\nThe Center actively supports human rights defenders around the world. In partnership with Human Rights First and the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Center holds an annual human rights defenders policy forum hosted by President Carter in Atlanta.\n\nPresident and Mrs. Carter have intervened with heads of state on behalf of human rights defenders and victims for more than 20 years. They often take their human rights concerns to heads of state in personal meetings and through letters.\n\nThe Center and President Carter are strong supporters of the U.N. Human Rights Council and the International Criminal Court. Both oppose the death penalty and urge its abolition in the U.S.\n\nRecalling President Carter’s success in the White House negotiating the long-lasting peace treaty between Israel and Egypt, groups in conflict turn to The Carter Center to help them prevent and resolve conflict. Lacking any official authority, the Center has become a trusted broker for peace, serving as a channel for dialogue and negotiation.\n\nRecent examples include:\n\nSince 1988, the Chinese government has authorized direct village elections to help maintain social and political order in the context of rapid economic reforms. At the invitation of China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, The Carter Center initiated a joint project in 1998 to standardize Chinese village election procedures and assist in training of election officials and elected National People’s Congress deputies. In 2011, the Carter Center was asked by the Chinese government to no longer observe elections and instead focus on advancing the US- China relationship.\n\nThe Center has prevented the suffering of millions of people around the world from illnesses often ignored by others. Health programs seek to provide people with the information and access to services they need to treat their illnesses and take steps to prevent future spread of disease. An emphasis is placed on building partnerships for change among international agencies, governments, nongovernmental organizations, and corporations and on working with ministries of health to strengthen or establish permanent health care delivery systems in the poorest nations.\n\nDuring his acceptance speech for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002, Carter commented on what he felt is the greatest challenge the world faces:\n\n“Among all the possible choices, I decided that the most serious and universal problem is the growing chasm between the richest and poorest people on earth. Citizens of the ten wealthiest countries are now 75 times richer than those who live in the ten poorest ones, and the separation is increasing every year, not only between nations but also within them. The results of this disparity are root causes of most of the world’s unresolved problems, including starvation, illiteracy, environmental degradation, violent conflict and unnecessary illnesses that range from Guinea worm to HIV/AIDS. Tragically, in the industrialized world there is a terrible absence of understanding or concern about those who are enduring lives of despair and hopelessness. We have not yet made the commitment to share with others an appreciable part of our excessive wealth. This is a necessary and potentially rewarding burden that we should all be willing to assume.\"\n\nThe Carter Center began spearheading the campaign to eradicate Guinea worm disease worldwide in 1986. At the time, there were about 3.5 million annual cases of the disease in 20 countries in Africa and Asia. In 2016 there were 25 reported cases in three countries: South Sudan, Chad and Ethiopia. Guinea worm disease is poised to be the first parasitic disease to be eradicated and the only disease to be eradicated without the use of vaccines or drugs.\n\nWithin affected countries, the Center reinforces existing disease eradication programs by providing technical and financial assistance, as well as logistics and tools, such as donated filter cloth material, larvicide, and medical kits.\n\nThe International Task Force for Disease Eradication has been based at The Carter Center since its formation in 1988. The group has reviewed more than 100 infectious diseases and identified six as potentially eradicable – dracunculiasis, poliomyelitis, mumps, rubella, lymphatic filariasis, and cysticercosis.\n\nSince 1996, the Center has been a leader in the fight against onchocerciasis, commonly known as river blindness – a parasitic disease transmitted by the bites of black flies.\n\nThe Center has worked to stop the spread of the disease in 11 countries across Africa and the Americas by helping residents and local health workers institute and sustain drug treatment programs and health education activities. The international river blindness campaign seeks to eliminate the disease from the Western Hemisphere by 2015.\n\nThe Center has distributed more than 125 million doses of Mectizan (ivermectin) – a drug donated by Merck & Co., Inc., that treats and prevents river blindness.\n\nCenter health workers also prevent transmission of trachoma – a bacterial infection that is the leading cause of preventable blindness worldwide. Trachoma is prevalent in places that lack the tools for basic hygiene, clean water, and adequate sanitation.\n\nThe Center follows the World Health Organization’s four-pronged approach – called the SAFE strategy – to fight trachoma in six African countries. The Trachoma Control Program is working to improve sanitation in those communities by building latrines, providing corrective surgery, distributing antibiotics, and educating communities on basic hygiene.\n\n, The Carter Center has helped to build more than one million latrines in its effort to fight trachoma.\n\nThe latrines contain and prevent human waste from serving as a breeding ground for the disease-carrying flies, thereby reducing one way the disease is spread.\n\nLymphatic filariasis and malaria are mosquito-borne diseases also targeted by The Carter Center. The Center has distributed four million long-lasting insecticidal bed nets. It has also established drug distribution systems in Nigeria to treat and stem the spread of lymphatic filariasis and schistosomiasis.\n\nThe Carter Center believes in building networks of village-based health care workers to treat people for various diseases at the same time. Emphasis is on helping national and local governments establish programs that they can sustain into the future.\n\nSince 1997, the Center established with the Ethiopian ministries of health and education the Ethiopia Public Health Training Initiative to improve academic training for health care personnel in Ethiopia and increase access to health care in rural communities throughout the country.\n\nIn partnership with the Sasakawa Africa Association, the Center has worked since 1986 in 15 sub-Saharan African countries to teach 8-10 million small-scale farmers improved techniques that double or triple their crop yields.\n\nThe program promotes use of fertilizers and crop protection chemicals, soil fertility, and environmentally friendly agronomic methods of crop production. It also supports efforts to construct quality grain storage to sustain market prices for the farmer and ensure greater food security, establish farmers' associations, and use quality food crops such as high-protein maize.\n\nRosalynn Carter leads the Center’s efforts to fight stigma associated with mental illness. The Center works to improve U.S. public policies that can help prevent mental illnesses and increase equity in mental health care, holding an annual symposium with national leaders in mental health and other fields.\n\nThe Center also seeks to raise public awareness of mental health issues globally through the Rosalynn Carter Fellowships for Mental Health Journalism, which enable journalists to explore mental health issues. To date, more than 100 journalists have participated in the program.\n\nMr. Carter received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002 for his work through The Carter Center. The Carter Center received the inaugural Delta Prize for Global Understanding in 1999 – an award administered by the University of Georgia.\n\nIn 2006, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation presented The Carter Center with the Gates Award for Global Health. The center was awarded Hamdan Award for Volunteers in Humanitarian Medical Services for 2013-14.\n\nThe center holds an annual auction, which raised $1.6 million in 2013.\n\nAlan Dershowitz asserts that the Center's focus \"is away from significant Arab abuses and on Israel's far less serious ones\" and that this is influenced by the Center's receipt of donations from Arab sources. One of the initial contributors to the Center was Bank of Commerce and Credit International founder Agha Hasan Abedi, who donated $500,000. Abedi and BCCI also donated $8 million to Carter's Global 2000 project.\nAccording to the Center, 3 percent of the total amount of contributions it has received since its founding in 1982 have been from donors in Mideast Arab nations. \nOf the donations from the Middle East, the Center states: \"Seventy-eight percent of those funds have helped to support health programs in Africa, 14 percent have gone to the institution's endowment, 4 percent were for original construction of buildings at headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and 4 percent for projects to directly promote peace, such as specific election observations.\n\nSome individuals have disputed the Center’s endorsement of the electoral process in the Venezuelan recall referendum of 2004. Fox News' Doug Schoen told Michael Barone at \"U.S. News and World Report\", \"Our internal sourcing tells us that there was fraud in the Venezuelan central commission. There are widespread reports of irregularities and evidence of fraud, many of them ably recorded by Mary Anastasia O'Grady in \"The Wall Street Journal\" last week. Carter is untroubled by any of this, and declares that Chavez won 'fair and square.'\" The Carter Center looked into the allegations and released a paper and statistical analysis reaffirming their original conclusions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51369868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51369868", "title": "Cary Gabriel Costello", "text": "Cary Gabriel Costello\n\nCary Gabriel Costello is an intersex trans male professor and advocate for transgender and intersex rights. His areas of study include identity, sexuality, privilege, and marginalization.\n\nAssigned female at birth, Costello first attempted a gender transition in 1991, while working as an attorney in Washington, D.C. Due to the discrimination he experienced, he postponed his transition, and left the legal profession to pursue a degree and career in sociology. He transitioned to male after securing tenure as an associate professor of Sociology at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, where he leads the LGBT Studies program.\n\nCostello has advocated for transgender and intersex people on issues including intersex surgery, eugenics, bathroom bills, TSA airline passenger screening, and the sometimes fraught relationships between intersex and transgender communities. He has analyzed the controversy over the gender testing of South African athlete Caster Semenya from an intersex perspective. Costello has suggested using the term \"ipso gender\" instead of cisgender for intersex people who agree with their medically assigned sex.\n\nCostello is the gestational father of a daughter, and is married to an intersex trans woman.\n\nIn February 2017, Costello and his wife lost access to transition-related healthcare when the state of Wisconsin reinstated an exclusion on these services. Additionally, his employer required that he obtain and submit new proof of his gender identity, despite the fact that he had transitioned over a decade earlier. A blog post Costello wrote about the situation went viral.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25913031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25913031", "title": "Conservative corporatism", "text": "Conservative corporatism\n\nBased upon the normative value of conservatism and the structural layout of corporatism, conservative corporatism arose as a response to liberal pluralism and Marxist radicalism by rejecting the pluralism of liberalism, the dialectical materialism of Marxism and the mutually held secular attitudes of both liberalism and Marxism. Economic systems of conservative corporatism are identified as involving a status-related welfare state, pronounced but not extreme income differentials, moderately hierarchical status rankings, moderate social rights and some social exclusion. Conservative corporatism is also a corporatist political culture that is distinct from fascist corporatism in that rather than having a dictatorship impose order through force, the conservative corporatist culture is already settled and ongoing. The conservative corporatist culture relies on existing shared values of its members and therefore does not feature a large police force. The theoretical source of legitimacy of a conservative corporatist culture is tradition and hierarchy of birth. While its members are rational beings, the culture itself does not attempt to justify itself by reason as for instance a fascist corporatist culture does, but rather appeals to the way it has always been done. They feel that tradition is the rightful basis of society.\n\nThe conservative corporatist culture is organized with rigid hierarchy defined by birth and age. They view this hierarchy as fundamental to the proper functioning of the society. They do not value or seek to achieve equality because they believe it is an illusion and detrimental. Any power attained by those who seek equality is considered an illegitimate replacement. Merit does play a limited role in who has influence, but hierarchy of birth takes precedence over merit whenever there is a conflict between the two. The conservative corporate culture is based on the family. Small corporate groups as well as the whole society are seen as a big family. For this reason, conservative corporatists tend to view time and goals in terms longer than one's own lifetime. Specialization of skills by small corporate groups tend to perpetuate the culture because it causes members to feel a sense of self-government and self-sufficiency. The connection of their work to the purpose of the whole society is close and obvious. Conservative corporate cultures are conceived in cooperation, not competition. Members accept the hierarchy and ownership is not vested in individuals, but rather groups. The good of these groups is believed to be the same as the good of the whole society.\n\n"}
{"id": "52649691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52649691", "title": "Corruption in Yemen", "text": "Corruption in Yemen\n\nCorruption in Yemen is a highly serious problem. Yemen is the most corrupt country in the Gulf region. It is also the poorest country in the Middle East, “with an exceptionally high birth rate, acute rates of child malnutrition and rapidly dwindling reserves of oil and water.” In Yemen, according to Chatham House, “corruption, poverty and inequality are systemic”; in the words of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, corrupt activity is “so entrenched and pervasive” that many citizens feel powerless.\n\nAbsent any “system of control and accountability,” corruption is now present throughout the public and private spheres, so much so that in the words of the World Bank, “[c]orruption and patronage networks are running the country’s public affairs.” This ubiquitous corruption has resulted in weak government and “corrupt power blocs that control public resources.” As a consequence of civil-service corruption, there are large numbers of so-called ghost workers. Corruption in the energy, communications, and health and education sectors have resulted in inadequate service or no service at all.\n\nJane Marriott, Britain's Ambassador to Yemen, stated in December 2013 that corruption in Yemen was so pervasive that it was credibly undermining the security and economy of the nation. She also noted that institutionalized corruption of such a grand scale discourages development and innovation.\n\nTransparency International's 2016 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 175th place out of 180 countries.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, corruption allegedly became “rampant” in Yemen. The presidency of Ali Abdullah Saleh, who served from 1990 to 2012, was said to be marked by the admixture of government, military, and corporate interests as well as by extensive nepotism and self-enrichment. Members of Saleh's Sanhan clan established power bases in the military, with Saleh's nephew Mohammed Abdullah Saleh running the Central Security Forces (CSF). On Mohammed Abdullah Selah's death in 2001, his son Yahya Mohammed Abdullah Selah took control of the CSF. Meanwhile, Yahya's brothers Tarik and Ammar ran the Presidential Guard and the National Security Bureau (NSB) respectively. Military aid from the US and other Western countries ended up enhancing the personal wealth of these members of the Saleh family and also enhancing their “ability to act as a source of patronage.”\n\nIn 2008, business people with close ties to Ahmed Ali Saleh, the son of President Saleh, reportedly used World Bank funds to found Shibam Holding Company, a government-backed property developer. This new firm took control of a great deal of government land and, later, of the General Investment Authority (GIA).\n\nBeginning in 2004, another clan, the Houthis, fought a six-year war against Saleh, whom they accused of corruption and criticized for sundry other reasons, including his U.S. and Saudi ties and his failure to support economic development in their region. This struggle gradually turned into a conflict between Ahmed Ali’s Republican Guard and Ali Mohsin’s First Armoured Division, and it escalated in 2009 with a Saudi troop deployment. In 2010, international pressure led to a ceasefire.\n\nAlso in 2010, the CEIP stated in that Yemen was at greater systemic risk of collapsing from corruption, than by being toppled by Al-Qaeda.\n\nYoung Yemenis' anger over “political and economic exclusion” led to a 2011 popular uprising and increased the risk of civil war. In response, the U.S., U.K., and Saudi Arabia pushed for a transfer of power that would remove Saleh but left the political elites essentially intact. In 2012, then, with the elite's power crippled by its “increasingly obvious corruption,” Ali Abdullah Saleh resigned from the presidency in exchange for a guarantee of immunity from prosecution and a promise that he could stay in the country.\n\nThis resignation effectively averted civil war. Replacing Saleh as president was his deputy, Abd Rabbu Mansour Hadi. The negotiated handover of power was widely viewed as “a regional success story” that could set Yemen on a “path towards a secure, prosperous future.” As \"IRIN News\" put it, these developments were widely considered a step forward for good governance advocates, who had struggled to make reforms for years.\n\nOver two years later, however, anti-corruption activists were still embattled with an entrenched culture of corruption that discourages honesty. A representative of a local human-rights foundation said that one patronage system had been dismantled, only to begin all new corruption systems. It was noted that bribery under Saleh was \"more standardized\" and that the breakdown of central authority has caused groups to demand inconsistent bribe amounts.\n\nIn 2013, Yemen's score on Transparency International's (TI) Corruption Perception Index (CPI) was the lowest it had received from TI in all years' rankings. In a survey of Yemenis taken the same year, 42% believed corruption was up since 2011. The World Bank agreed that by 2014 there had not been “any noticeable improvement in anti-corruption efforts” in Yemen, and that in fact corruption in the country was “still rampant and growing.”\n\nWhen Saleh's successor, Abd Rabbuh Mansour Hadi, was toppled in a coup in 2015, Saleh was accused of playing a role in it.\n\nUnder Saleh, power was alleged to be distributed to the president's relatives and members of his clan, who came to dominate the military, tribes, government, and economy.\n\nA 2013 report argued that Saleh utilized his massive to garner cooperation between the nation's tribal elite. This system operated to the benefit of the Yemeni elite at the expense of the poor majority. The report noted that the elite rarely keep their looted wealth within the nation, further bearing down on Yemen's populace.\n\nA UN panel told the Security Council in February 2015 that Saleh was thought to have accumulated up to $60 billion through corruption during his tenure. He had carried out these activities in collaboration with friends, family, and associates, including at least five prominent businessmen, and his stolen assets had reportedly been “hidden in at least twenty countries with the help of business associates and front companies.” An estate of $60 billion would make Saleh the fifth richest man in the world.\n\nToday, despite the changes that have taken place, Yemen's economy is criticized as still being dominated by a tiny elite consisting of military, tribal, political, and business leaders, with around ten families and groups of business associates controlling over 80% of the country's imports, manufacturing, processing, banking, telecommunications, and goods transport. Yemen's future, stated a 2013 report by Chatham House, will be determined by “whether its elite remains more concerned by the threats posed by rival factions within the elite, or prioritizes its response to popular anger arising from the failure to allocate resources more widely.”\n\nThe Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (CEIP) has pointed out that a custom known as \"wasta\", or favoritism, ensures that favors or job appointments are routinely given to persons who have relatives in positions of power or who pay sufficient bribes to public officials.\n\nAccording to the World Food Programme, “over 10 million Yemenis – 46 per cent of the population – do not have enough to eat,” a problem that is worsened by “the self-enriching behaviour of the country’s elites, who are depleting Yemen’s resources, sending illicitly earned and untaxed profits abroad, and often actively resisting much-needed structural reforms.” Nepotism, according to \"IRIN News\", is routinely present in public aid projects, and its presence is more often a hindrance.\n\nElections have been characterized by \"Freedom House\" as “vote buying, the partisanship of public officials and the military, and exploitation of state control over key media platforms.” According to Chatham House, a national debate about corruption was occasioned by the 2006 election campaign, but this debate did not lead to any systemic changes. Also, “parliamentary elections have been repeatedly postponed,” with the 2009 elections put off to 2011 and then put off again.\n\nAccording to \"Chatham House\", corruption is reportedly widespread in the Yemeni military, a state of affairs partially caused by the virtual absence of civilian oversight. In 2013, the Transparency International Government Defence Anti-Corruption Index ranked Yemen's defense establishments as one of the world's most corrupt. Since at least 2010, the army has consisted of “a series of factional alliances that more resembled a collection of feudal warlords than a modern, centrally managed military,” because “Saleh was wary of creating a centralized military capable of mounting a coup.”\n\nA “parastatal” entity called YECO, which procures military equipment and is run by active-duty officers, owns a great deal of land and “various parastatal enterprises,” mostly in what used to be South Yemen, according to \"Chatham House\". YECO is active in various sectors, including real estate, tourism, construction, oil and gas, pharmaceuticals, transport and agriculture. The military is permitted to seize land for its own use, and can do so either directly or via YECO. It has been suggested that this land is often given to officers or sold to developers for private profit. Both Saleh and Ali Mohsin had “extensive patronage networks inside YECO.”\n\nBribes have been characterized as not only widespread but “necessary” in Yemen, given the poor economic conditions that compel subject police and other civil servants to try to live on salaries that “barely meet subsistence levels.” As Philippe Le Billon of the University of British Columbia has put it, petty corruption of this sort is often the only way civil servants can make ends meet.\n\nIn Yemen, a person who is not entitled to a passport can easily secure one in exchange for a bribe. This causes trouble for Yemenis who have legitimate passports and who wish to work in other Gulf countries. These Yemenis' resultant inability to get jobs abroad limits remittances and thus weakens the Yemeni economy.\n\nThe process by which land is sold and registered is reportedly murky and lacking in transparency, and these systematic weaknesses provide opportunities for widespread corruption.\n\nDuring the Saleh era, the oil and gas industry was supposedly “the main source of export revenue and government finance.” Saleh personally approved “all major deals and production-sharing agreements” with foreign oil firms. The government-owned Yemen Oil and Gas Corporation “dominated the import and distribution of petroleum products, and delegated monopoly privileges to two major operators, Tawfiq Abdulraheem and Ahmed al-Iessi,” who were close to Saleh and Ali Mohsin. Corruption in this sector principally involved the awarding of service contracts and import/export deals. In addition, “Saleh allocated state-subsidized fuel products on a quota basis to his relatives and political allies, who were free to charge a substantial mark-up to wholesale domestic buyers, or trade their allocated quota overseas at international market prices.” Saleh also allowed certain businessmen “to claim subsidies on non-existent fuel imports, on the basis of falsified import documents.” This practice cost the national treasury dearly, although YECO profited greatly from it. “Oil-related corruption was also endemic in the military, with officers benefiting directly from fuel allocated to their units and using military transport infrastructure to move it both within Yemen and to foreign markets.”\n\nThe \"Wall Street Journal\" reported in 2010 that the US Justice Department was investigating Schlumberger, an oil firm, for corruption connected to its activities in Yemen. In 2002, Schlumberger had bid on a contract with state-run PEPA via a local agent, Zonic Investments, run by Tawfiq Saleh Abdullah Saleh, and paid a “signing bonus” of $500,000 to an offshore subsidiary of Zonic in addition to disbursing an additional $1.38 million to PEPA. Also, two PEPA officials rented cars to Schlumberger at artificially high prices, and Dhakwan Petroleum and Mineral Services, owned by Ali Mohsin, which imported and exported equipment for Schlumberg, received $280,000 for processing paperwork. The Journal stated that when Schlumberger sought to end its arrangement with Dhakwan, “it became impossible for it to import equipment into Yemen.”\n\nFuel subsidies in Yemen, according to the IMF, open substantial opportunities for corruption. These subsidies chiefly benefit rich Yemenis, encourage excess consumption, and provide opportunities for smuggling.\n\nAt a typical hospital, according to \"IRIN News\", doctors and other staff are, according to one employee, mostly hired on the basis of connections to the local sheikh, without regard to qualifications. Many of those who are hired are either “ghost workers” – i.e., do not exist – or do not actually show up for work. The latter receive their own paychecks, while the sheikh takes those for the “ghost workers.” Medical funding rarely makes it past the employees dividing it between themselves.\n\nAnother medical professional described a similar situation in a hospital in Sana’a, where a fellow aid worker paid graft on a daily basis in cooperation with the Yemeni military officer in charge of the facility. The corrupt activity at this hospital involved over-billing an aid agency. \"IRIN News's\" interviewee chose not to report the corruption because he feared that doing so could thwart investors, which would cause the hospital to fall apart. Colleagues agreed that whistleblowing in this case would likely be pointless, given the military's impunity. Moreover, these medical professionals risked losing their jobs, or worse, for defying authority.\n\nYemen's central bank has raised much of its capital from private banks “by selling treasury bills and bonds into the domestic market at generous interest rates.” This resulted, allegedly, in excellent profits for elite businessmen who held most of the government's debt but deterred other businesspersons from applying for loans.\n\nA December 2014 World Bank report stated that corruption is a continued drain on the economy of Yemen. Corruption by influential individuals who strong-arm investors, forcing them to pay for protection, negatively affects Yemen's business climate, according to the report, causing investor flight that results in fewer job opportunities and hesitation on the part of Yemeni businessmen abroad to invest in their own country.\n\nA September 2010 report on Yemeni corruption by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (CEIP) described corruption as the chief source of Yemen's stagnation. Fighting corruption, stated the report, must be central to stabilization and development. According to CEIP, corruption was preventing the expansion of small business owing to the arbitrary corruption they face at the hands of police and government officials. This, in turn, keeps unemployment high, and discourages investment.\n\nA 2010 documentary film by the Center for International Private Enterprise, \"Destructive Beast\", exposed the cost of corruption, in terms of economic and social impact, in Yemen.\n\n“Yemen’s reputation for corruption,” \"IRIN News\" has maintained, is a chief factor why Yemen received limited aid. \"IRIN\" stated that in 2006, a London group that had granted $4.7 billion in aid to Yemen saw only about 10 percent of that funding pass through corruption obstacles and contribute to aid.\n\nIn 2011, the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD) found that current efforts to reduce corruption in the foreign aid to Yemen rely too much on internationally driven “technical-legal” processes that lack sufficient local consent. Also, current anti-corruption approaches tend to be legal framework, which has little impact on the localized groups that lack rule of law.\n\nAccording to the World Bank, the regulatory bodies monitoring corruption in Yemen are weak. The parliament, instead of acting against corruption, is said to have acted as an enabler of government opacity because it routinely defends the government. However, some of the laws Yemen has proceed with have been called a “good start.”\n\nThe SNACC, however, has “not...fully realized” its officially designated role. Authorities have slowed down its investigative procedures or impeded the referral of cases to authorities that are supposed to take action on them. Also, the legal system lacks framework for special cases. Out of 2400 corruption complaints filed from 2007 to 2014, only 71 were heard in court. In 2013, 100 cases of corruption were referred to the SNACC for prosecution, but by the end of that year no verdicts had been forthcoming.\n\nIn 2013, President Hadi dismissed several highly placed officials for corruption. Also, the Central Organization for Control and Auditing has prosecuted corrupt officials and recuperated embezzled funds. Freedom House has credited the Yemeni government with trying to fight corruption, but has also pointed out that the country has no conflict of interest enforcement and that bodies responsible for auditing and investigation are not independent of the executive branch.\n\nTransparency International's 2005 Global Corruption Report noted donors in Yemen rarely denounce corruption for fear of politically-motivated reprisals.\n\nA campaign by Transparency International’s Yemen chapter (YTTI), addressed corruption in the security sector, particularly bribery and extortion by police officers and soldiers. In 2012, police were alleged to have threatened YTTI members violently and may have even resorted to force. Also, the group’s project coordinator was shot by an unidentified shooter after delivering a speech on corruption, seriously injuring him.\n\nThe UK’s Department for International Development (DFID) has backed Yemenis who demand greater government accountability and transparency. In 2013, the then British Minister of State for International Development, Alan Duncan MP, told journalists that Yemen requires better leadership in combatting corruption at every level.\n\nThe US State Department has expressed concern about the lack of laws protecting Yemeni government employees who report corruption. According to the Department’s 2013 Human Rights report on Yemen, NGO's reported several instances of reprisals for employees reporting corruption. The same report describes how Yemen’s Ministry of Social and Labor Affairs unfairly put up barriers to human rights-related groups, whereas unrelated groups experienced few difficulties.\n\nHamid al-Ahmar, Sheikh Abdullah’s son, sponsored the National Dialogue Conference (NDC), a “grassroots consultation exercise,” beginning in 2009. Its goal was “to draw up a national ‘salvation plan’ for Yemen.” At the same time, civil-society activists took up “a more aggressive stance, staging regular sit-ins in front of the parliament building.” One of those activists, Tawwakul Karman, went on to share the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize. The Conference, which brought together “a wide range of participants,” allowed people to “air their grievances publicly” but did not enable them to “significantly challenge the informal networks of power that have proved remarkably resilient to change in the past.” NDC participants recognized that the nation's wealth had been looted by a privileged elite. The Good Governance Working Group, whose task was to develop an approach to fighting corruption, called for a law protecting journalists, whistleblowers, and witnesses.\n"}
{"id": "13519536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13519536", "title": "Deep Water Royalty Relief Act", "text": "Deep Water Royalty Relief Act\n\nThe United States Deep Water Royalty Relief Act (DWRRA) implemented a royalty-relief program that relieves eligible leases from paying royalties on defined amounts of deep-water petroleum production over Federal Outer Continental Shelf lands. After its expiration in 2000, the DWRRA was redefined and extended to promote continued interest in deep water. The Minerals Management Service (MMS) defines a \"deep-water\" lease as having a minimum water depth of 200 meters (656 ft).\n\nUnder the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended in 1978, and under the provisions of the DWRRA of 1995, relief from royalty obligations may be granted to increase production or to encourage development on certain producing or non-producing leases. Royalty relief may be applied to either active leases or to newly offered leases directly in their fiscal terms. The primary MMS royalty relief programs include those that were required for Gulf of Mexico deepwater leases (located in water depth greater than 200 meters or 656 feet) issued in 1996-2000 under the DWRRA. After certain sunset provisions in the DWRRA expired in November 2000, the MMS adopted a program that provides lower amounts of royalty relief to each lease. The Federal Government has also offered royalty relief incentives since 2001 for natural gas production from certain deep wells in shallow water (15,000 feet total well depth) for newly issued leases, and commenced a similar program for active shallow water leases where drilling started on or after March 26, 2003.\n\nThe Energy Information Administration estimates there were 18,812 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of dry natural gas proved reserves and of crude oil proved reserves in the Federal Gulf of Mexico as of the end of 2004. About 45 percent of the natural gas proved reserves and 79 percent of the crude oil proved reserves in the Federal Gulf of Mexico are in deepwater areas, although not all of this is subject to royalty relief. The following sections highlight provisions in several rules and regulations under which oil and natural gas production volumes may receive royalty relief.\n"}
{"id": "1090946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1090946", "title": "Democracy 21", "text": "Democracy 21\n\nDemocracy 21 is a non-profit organization in the United States that aims to combat the influence of private money in politics by enacting campaign finance reform. It was founded in 1997 by longtime activist Fred Wertheimer. The organization supports stricter campaign finance limits and regulations and opposes the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in \"Citizens United v. FEC.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54011540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54011540", "title": "Dès Demain", "text": "Dès Demain\n\nDès Demain (; English: \"As of tomorrow\", \"Starting tomorrow\"), stylized as ¡Dès Demain!, is a social democratic political movement in France founded on by Anne Hidalgo, Christiane Taubira and Martine Aubry.\n"}
{"id": "2095659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095659", "title": "Federation of Pro-Independence Co-operation Committees", "text": "Federation of Pro-Independence Co-operation Committees\n\nThe Federation of Pro-Independence Co-operation Committees () is a political party in New Caledonia supporting the island's independence from France, although it is the most moderate of all nationalist parties.\n\nThe FCCI was founded in 1998 by three dissident members of the Kanak and Socialist National Liberation Front (FLNKS) who opposed waiting for a settlement to a mining dispute in the North until agreeing on sitting down for negotiations which eventually led to the Nouméa Accord. In the 1999 elections, the new party obtained 4 seats in the Congress of New Caledonia and formed a common group with the anti-independence Rally for Caledonia in the Republic (RPCR). While still in favour of independence, it supports talks and co-operation between factions in the meantime and opposes the concept of ethnic nationalism and ethnic independence supported by the FLNKS. The FCCI's close affiliation with the RPCR has often made it the centre of criticism, mostly on its left, calling it a \"RPCR bis\".\n\nThe FCCI's co-operation with the RPCR led to its downfall in the 2004 election, where it won only one seat in Congress (from the Loyalty Islands). Its sole Congressman, Cono Hnaéjé Hamu, formed a common group with the RPCR but Hamu left to re-join the Caledonian Union.\n\nIn the latest legislative elections of May 10, 2009, it won 0.6% of the popular vote, and no seats in the Congress of New Caledonia.\n"}
{"id": "1360491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1360491", "title": "Fixture (property law)", "text": "Fixture (property law)\n\nA fixture, as a legal concept, means any physical property that is permanently attached (\"fixed\") to real property (usually land) Property not affixed to real property is considered \"chattel\" property. Fixtures are treated as a part of real property, particularly in the case of a security interest. A classic example of a fixture is a building, which—in the absence of language to the contrary in a contract of sale—is considered part of the land itself and not a separate piece of property. Generally speaking the test for deciding whether an article is a fixture or a chattel turns on the purpose of attachment. If the purpose was to enhance the land the article is likely a fixture. If the article was affixed to enhance the use of the chattel itself, the article is likely a chattel.\n\nChattel property is converted into a fixture by the process of attachment. For example, if a piece of lumber sits in a lumber yard it is a chattel. If the same lumber is used to build a fence on the land it becomes a fixture to that real property. In many cases, the determination of whether property is a fixture or a chattel turns on the degree to which the property is attached to the land. For example, this problem arises in the case of a trailer home. In this case the characterization of the home as chattel or realty will depend on how permanently it is attached—such as whether the trailer has a foundation.\n\nThe characterization of property as a fixture or as chattel is important. In most jurisdictions, the law respecting the registration of security against debt, or proof that money has been lent on the collateral of property, is different for chattels than it is for real property. For example, in the province of Ontario, Canada, mortgages against real property must be registered in the county or region's land titles office. However, mortgages against chattels must be registered in the province-wide registry set up under the \"Personal Property Security Act\".\n\nIn the case of a trailer home, whether it is a fixture or chattel has a bearing on whether a real property mortgage applies to the trailer. For example, most mortgages contain a clause that forbids the borrower from removing or demolishing fixtures on the property, which would lower the value of the security. However, there have been cases where lenders lend money based on the value of the trailer home on the property, where that trailer is later removed from the property. Similarly, a chattel mortgage granted to allow a person to purchase a trailer home could be lost if the trailer is later attached to real property.\n\nThe law regarding fixtures can also cause many problems with property held under a lease. Fixtures put in place by the tenant belong to the landlord if the tenant is evicted from the property. This is the case even if the fixture could have legally been removed by the tenant while the lease was in good standing. For example, a chandelier hung by the tenant may become the property of the landlord. Although this example is trivial, there have been cases where heavy equipment incorporated into a plant has been deemed to have become fixtures even though it was sold as chattels.\n\nBecause the value of fixtures often exceeds the value of the land they are affixed to, lawsuits to determine whether a particular item is a chattel or a fixture are common. In one case in Canada, a provincial government argued that a huge earth dam was a chattel, as it was only held in place by gravity and not by any type of affixation (the claim was rejected). In a sale of land, fixtures are treated as part of the land, and may not be removed or altered by the seller prior to the transfer of the land.\n\nFixtures are known in civil law as essential parts.\n\nAn important exception to the usual treatment of fixtures is the category of trade fixtures (often called \"chattel\" fixtures)—chattels installed by a tenant on leased commercial property specifically for their use in a trade or business. These may always be removed by the tenant, so long as any damage to the structure caused by the removal is repaid or repaired. For example, business signage, display counters, store shelves, liquor bars, and machining equipment are often firmly, if not almost permanently, attached to the building or land. However, they remain personal property and can be removed by the tenant, since they are part of the tenant's business.\n\nThe economic logic behind this exception for trade fixtures reckons that if tenants could not remove them, then landlords would bear the responsibility of outfitting their tenants with such equipment and materials.\n\nBy deduction, therefore, a trade fixture is not a fixture at all. Its name is misleading, since a fixture, by definition, is real property that must remain with the real estate when a seller sells it or a tenant leaves her lease. A trade \"fixture\" is not real property, but personal property of the tenant.\n\nThe landlord does have some protection. Any damage to the real property caused by the tenant’s removal of trade fixtures must be repaired or paid for by the tenant. If a trade fixture is not removed when the tenant moves out, those trade fixtures become the landlord’s property through the process of accession. For example, if a restaurant goes bankrupt and the owner forgoes his right and the expense of removing all the kitchen equipment, dining booths and other trade fixtures, those trade fixtures become the landlord's property. In this manner, they will no longer be trade fixtures and can actually become regular fixtures, hence real property.\n\nIn the absence of agreement between the parties, the doctrine of fixtures, subject to statute, operates to resolve contests concerning title to objects.\n\nWhether a chattel by its nature, becomes a fixture by virtue of all the circumstances, surrounding their annexation to land, depends upon (i) the purpose and (ii) degree of annexation. Semble, it is a mixed question of fact and law, to be determined objectively, the subjective intention being a consideration.\n\nIntention may be ascertained from the annexing party's relation to the land’s possessor, when the chattel’s use is contemplated, not from the party's agreement. Objects brought onto land by tenants may become fixtures, and this fact may be a significant determining factor.\n\nSince Palumberi v Palumberi, greater emphasis has been directed to the purpose of annexation. Each case depends upon its own facts, however a guiding test, is whether a chattel has been fixed with the intention that it shall remain in position 'permanently or for an indefinite or substantial period', or only for some temporary purpose.\n\nWhere the object is not resting by its own weight, this will raise the rebuttable presumption, that the chattel is a fixture. Non-affixed objects may become fixtures especially when they will be used for an extensive period.\n\nFurther indicators include whether the object can be detached without substantial damage being caused, whether it was fixed for the better enjoyment of the land, or the object itself, the period of time in use and its function, the function served by its annexation, and whether the cost of renewal would exceed the value of the property.\n\nA tenant's right of removal does not extend to agricultural fixtures at common law. However, under New South Wales legislation, tenants can remove agricultural fixtures in certain circumstances, subject to landlords' statutory rights pertaining to fixtures.\n\nIn most commercial real estate leases, a tenant has the obligation to restore the leasehold improvements back to a base building condition at the expiry of the lease term.\n\n"}
{"id": "31057269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31057269", "title": "Henshaws Society for Blind People", "text": "Henshaws Society for Blind People\n\nHenshaws Society for Blind People (founded in 1837), by Oldham businessman Thomas Henshaw, is a specialist charity providing support, advice and training to anyone affected by sight loss and other disabilities.\n\nThe charity has changed names three times. In 1921, it was 'Henshaw’s Institution for the Blind', in January 1971 it changed to 'Henshaw’s Society for the Blind', and then finally in 2000 to 'Henshaws Society for Blind People.'\n\nThomas Henshaw died in 1810, bequeathing £20,000 to establish an institution of the blind in Manchester. His will was contested by family members for 26 years, but was eventually upheld by the Court of Chancery in favour of the scheme.\n\nThomas Henshaw's will said that his ‘expectation that other persons at their expense purchase land and buildings’ for the institution. This was matched by public donations and subscriptions procured through a subscription list across the City and surrounding districts.\n\nA Board of Management was chosen based on Henshaw’s directive that “all subscribers of two guineas or upwards, and donors in any one year of twenty guineas or upwards, shall form a Board of Management, to whom the whole direction and control of the Institutions be entrusted.”\n\nIn September 1834 the Board of Management of Henshaw’s Blind Asylum and Deaf and Dumb schools, jointly purchased a plot of land adjoining the botanical gardens at Old Trafford Manchester. In 1837 Henshaw's Blind Asylum, later known as Henshaw's Institution for the Blind, was founded in a building built with public contributions in Old Trafford.\n\nIn 1850 Mr. G.A. Hughes (first Governor of Henshaw's Blind Asylum) took out a patent for the Hughes Typograph, which he claimed to be the first typewriting machine. It was designed primarily to enable the blind to communicate with the sighted. A Hughes Typograph was awarded the gold medal at the Great Exhibition in Hyde Park in 1851. One of these machines is in the Museum of the National Institute for the Blind, and another in the Science Section of the South Kensington Museum, where it is the oldest English Model - the one older machine is American.\n\nIn 1859 the Family of Lord Derby became the President of the Society, which tradition continues. In 1861 the asylum added workshop accommodation for brush-making; this was soon discontinued, although basket-making and mat-making continued. Outside blind workers were employed in addition to the inmates.\n\nIn 1881 the asylum introduced Braille systems into the school, one of the many improvements introduced by Governor James McCormick (1876–1892). In 1887 as a result of a munificent bequest by Mr J Pendlebury, the asylum carried out a large extension known as the Pendlebury Extension, consisting of dormitories and workshops.\n\nIn 1891 workshops for the blind opened at the corner of Deansgate and Wood Street; the building cost about £9,000 and provided new workshops, formerly in Bloom Street. In 1892 the asylum received nearly £14,000 from James Nasmyth for a large concert hall to seat 500 persons and kitchens. In 1895 the asylum started giving instruction in massage; its pupils were the first in the country to follow this profession.\n\nIn 1900 the Manchester and Salford Blind Aid Society, 30 Tonman Street, Deansgate, Manchester, was founded by Miss Isabel M Heywood of Pendleton, and a small Home opened at the Crescent, Salford. (In 1930 there were 1,390 blind persons on its register - 1,160 in Manchester and 230 in other parts of Lancashire). In 1902 Manchester and Salford Blind Aid Society started a brush department, which it transferred to Henshaws twenty years later. In 1904 W.H. Illingworth, Head Masterfor twenty years and author of \"History of the Education of the Blind\" (1910), was appointed Superintendent. In 1905 the asylum received £10,000 from the trustees of the late James Holden, of Rochdale, providing fifty-five weekly grants to blind people in the area. In 1930 the income from this fund was £380, half of which was used by Henshaws for general expenses, and the other half paid to the Rochdale and District Society. In 1908 Manchester and Salford Blind Aid Society moved their women to a larger home, The Elms, Eccles Old Road, Pendleton, with accommodation for thirty-five.\n\nIn 1910 the asylum opened the Hayesleigh Home and Workshops in Old Trafford. It was given by Mr. C. H. Scott, a Board Member, who afterwards added £3,000 for its endowment. The complex was named The Mary Ann Scott Memorial Home and Workshop after his wife. In 1913 they took an additional house for a College of Music. In 1915 they opened the Gresham Home for 30 blind men, and the Birch Avenue Home for 30 blind women. In 1918 Manchester and Salford Blind Aid Society opened a Home, Oaklands, for 30 aged blind men, next to its Women's Home in the Eccles Old Road, Pendleton.\n\nIn 1921 the name was changed to Henshaw's Institution for the Blind. In 1924 Manchester and Salford Blind Aid Society opened an additional house in Eccles Old Road, Pendleton, to accommodate 20 blind women. In 1927 new workshops built on the Hayesleigh site were officially opened in July 1927, resulting in more efficient and economic production.\n\nOne of the country's largest private institutions, the asylum occupied a plot of land beside Boyer Street in Old Trafford. In 1930 Mr. W.H. Thurman was appointed director and secretary of Henshaw's Institution for the Blind. It had 118 school pupils, 155 technical pupils, 194 workshop employees, 29 home workers, 64 residents in its Homes and 19 blind instructors, teachers, or other employees. Today, the former asylum is occupied by the Greater Manchester Police Headquarters and dominated by its multi-story office block called Chester House. In 1932 The Gresham Home for Men and the Birch Avenue Home for Women were disposed of, replaced by a new home in Rhyl.\n\nIn 1945 evacuated school children - the boys from Ellesmere, Shropshire, and the girls from Fulwood, Preston, returned to Old Trafford. In 1946 under a policy of the Ministry of Education, Henshaws School changed from an all-age school for boys and girls into a secondary special school for pupils aged 12 to 16. In 1948 The Society bought Astle Park at Chelford, Cheshire, for £15,000 with plans to build a new school in the country. After spending the war years at Hare Hill, Macclesfield, the residents of the Mary Ann Scott Memorial Home moved to a new permanent home in Southport on September 27. The home officially opened on November 2.\n\nIn 1966 The Society's plans to build a new school at Astle Park were turned down, following complaints by Sir Bernard Lovell at Jodrell Bank that the expansion of computers would eventually interfere with the operation of his radar dish.\n\nThe Government offered the Society a 50-acre site in Harrogate. The Society was offered a grant of £250,000 in return for moving to North Yorkshire. The land at Astle Park was finally disposed of in 1995.\n\nIn 1971 the new school opened in October and new headquarters were built on part of the old workshop site in Old Trafford. A new scheme for the regulation of the charity, amending the 1924 Scheme was sealed by the Charity Commissioners. A number of outdated clauses in the old scheme were replaced. An important addition gave effect to a change of title to 'Henshaw's Society for the Blind'. In 1972 the Society opened a holiday home in Llandudno, the Belmont Hotel and a few years later a special care centre was built at Rhyl to accommodate frail elderly residents.\n\nIn 1980 The Society merged with the Manchester and Salford Blind Aid Society, making the charity one of the largest in the country. Henshaw's became a Housing Association and opened Dr Pigott Lodge, a sheltered housing scheme in Blackley for retired blind and partially sighted people. In 1982 the Pendleton Special Care Centre was built as an addition to the Elms Home in Salford for people requiring nursing care, known as the Isabel Heywood Centre. In 1985 Government Policy required Henshaw's to implement changes. Part of the pupil accommodation was converted into single study bedrooms to provide residential independence training for pupils over the age of 16. A small special unit was also established for deaf-blind students in this age group. In 1986/7 the Society developed a Community Housing Scheme in Harrogate for students about to leave the College who wished to remain in the area, but needed support in order to achieve independence. (By 2000, the Society had acquired 17 community houses in Harrogate & Knaresborough).\n\nIn 1990 Phase I of the Lottie Hobson Centre was completed in November and 30 people moved into the home, which was formerly the Elms. It was officially opened in September 1991. In 1992 community services delivered from Warwick Road for several years were expanded to create a regional resource centre. In 1992/1993 The Society became a founder member of Opsis, the National Association for the Education, Training and Support of Blind and Partially Sighted People. The work of the charity ‘Eyeline’ was continued in the form of a family and Patient Support Service – a precursor to later Children and Family Services. In 1993 On July 20, the charity commission granted national charity status to Henshaws.\n\nThe Society built a new residential home in Southport after realising that its high standards of care could not be maintained at the original Godfrey Ermen Home. Phase II of the Lottie Hobson Centre was completed. A merger between the Liverpool Workshops and Birkenhead Society for the Blind resulted in the opening of Henshaws Merseyside Resource Centre in The Strand, Liverpool, in April 1993. In June 1993, in collaboration with Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, the Society established a Patient Support Service to provide advice, information, support, counselling and rehabilitation to patients attending hospital appointments. In 1995 A Community Housing initiative in Newcastle was developed for people leaving long hospital stays. The project began in 1994 with the opening of a home for five people. In March 1995, Henshaws Head Office and Greater Manchester Resource Centre moved to new premises in Talbot Road, Old Trafford. John Derby House, named after the late 18th Earl of Derby, President of the Society for 46 years, was officially opened in September 1995 by his nephew, the 19th Earl of Derby. Its School of Visual Impairment Studies based at Henshaw's College opened to provide training for Rehabilitation Officers. It quickly became established as a leading training provider – the only one of its kind in the North of England. In 1996 The Godfrey Ermen Home officially opened on April 26. In 1997 The Society celebrated its 160th Anniversary by holding a range of fundraising and profile raising events. On September 8, 1998, Henshaws opened its new Arts and Crafts Centre in Knaresborough, North Yorkshire, partly funded by a £1.8m grant from the National Lottery through the Arts Council of England. On September 9, 50 clients moved into the craft workshops to begin their training and employment. The Arts and Crafts Centre opened to the general public on April 25, 1999 with a carnival parade involving clients, staff and the local community with facilities for visitors including a café, exhibition gallery and shop.\n\nIn December, 2000, the Society changed its name to Henshaws Society for Blind People and renamed its residential establishments in the Northwest. The Godfrey Ermen Home, Isabel Heywood & Lottie Hobson Centre and Doctor Pigott Lodge became known as the Southport Centre, Pendleton Centre and Blackley Centre respectively.\n\nThe Society also launched its first website. On October 9, Phase I of the Garden of the Senses at the Arts and Crafts Centre was officially opened. The Crown Green Road housing scheme opened on October 23 to provide supported community accommodation for visually impaired people in their 20s to 50s, some with additional disabilities. Henshaws partnered with Manchester Methodist Housing Group on the six-flat scheme.\n\nIn June 2001, due to lack of demand and a shortage of nursing staff, the Pendleton registered as a residential home only. Also in June, the Blackley Centre announced it was going to close permanently. The Merseyside Resource Centre moved next door and spread over three floors. In 2002 ownership of Henshaws Belmont Hotel was transferred to the Royal Blind Society (RBS). In September, the 12-week, pre-vocational Skillstep to Success course was launched at the Manchester centre. The School of Visual Impairment Studies became known as the Training & Professional Development Centre.\n\nIn 2003 the pre-vocational training Skillstep to Success course opened at John Derby House, Manchester. In September, HSBP hosted an Early Years Conference to debate the needs of young visually impaired children and their families. The Patient Support Service celebrated its 10th Anniversary and expanded to eye hospitals and clinics in Bolton, Eccles and Wythenshawe.\n\nIn 2004 a new I.T service was introduced in Merseyside and the pre-vocational Skillstep to Success course was established in all four Henshaws regions. The first house in Greater Manchester opened to accommodate six College leavers and one house has been purchased in Gateshead. Two new and improved houses replaced four older ones in Harrogate. Henshaws won a Visionary Design Award as the most accessible website of any visual impairment organisation. The revolutionary ‘Handy Guide for families’ was published.\n\nIn 2005 the Children and Family Services was established in all four of Henshaws regions. The first 4 Skillstep students at Wakefield graduated from the course. Red Admiral Court in Newcastle upon Tyne opened in December with 3 service users to eventually house 6 service users.\n\nThe object of the Charity is the relief of the blind and partially sighted persons in all or any of the following ways:\n\n\nHenshaws Society for Blind People today provides a comprehensive range of residential, education training and community care services for blind and partially sighted people of all ages in the North of England.\n\nHenshaws College in Harrogate provides vocational education and training opportunities for one hundred visually impaired students living both on and off campus, many of whom also have additional physical and learning disabilities. The majority of courses offered are aimed at maximizing independence skills.\n\nAs a Registered Social Landlord, Henshaws owns and manages a wide range of accommodations. Yew Tree Lane in Northenden is the only residential home for young visually impaired people in the Greater Manchester area. It offers residential care, personal support and individual development on a permanent or a respite basis for people with learning disabilities, physical disabilities and/or a visual impairment.\n\nCrown Green Road is a block of self-contained flats, specially adapted for visually impaired people in their 20s to 50s. Residents receive support from a support worker 3 hours per week.\n\nHenshaws currently have 17 community houses in Harrogate and Knaresborough for young people, many of whom are former Henshaws College students.\n\nHenshaws has two resource centres in Liverpool and Manchester that support local communities through Information and Advice, Social and Self-help Groups, Informal Learning and Accredited Learning.\n\nIn Liverpool and Manchester, popular information technology and pre-vocational guidance courses meet the needs of visually impaired people. The centre has a range of specialist equipment for purchase or demonstration.\n\nThe Greater Manchester Resource Centre offers outreach services providing information, advice and support.\n\nAt the Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, the Patient Support Service provides post-diagnosis and other counseling.\n\nIn Salford, the Community Outreach Worker works closely with Salford Social Services and volunteers to reduce social isolation, increase confidence and improve quality of life for older people with a visual impairment.\n\nHenshaws Children and Family Services offers a range of support, social and training activities throughout the year with young people up to age 18.\n\nBoth Resource Centres are stocked with specialist toys, contain soft play areas and sensory stimulation rooms.\n\nHenshaws contract with a number of social services across NW England to supply rehabilitation services. The rehabilitation officers provide training in daily living skills to help visually impaired people achieve greater independence.\n\nHenshaws Training and Professional Development Centre (formerly known as the School of Visual Impairment Studies) is based at College and delivers full and part-time professional training courses for Rehabilitation Officers and others working with the visually impaired.\n\nThe Visual Impairment Awareness Training scheme has been undertaken by many health and social services personnel, schools and colleges, voluntary agencies and commercial organisations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9589826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9589826", "title": "Independence Republic of Sardinia", "text": "Independence Republic of Sardinia\n\nIndependence Republic of Sardinia (, iRS) is a Sardist, left-wing nationalist and social-democratic and non-violent separatist political party in Sardinia. The party, whose long-time leader is Gavino Sale, supports the establishment of a \"Republic of Sardinia\" and its independence from Italy.\n\nThe party emerged in 2001–2002 by the merger of \"Su Cuncordu\", a separatist platform animated by three Sardinian intellectuals living in Rome (Franciscu Sedda, Frantziscu Sanna and Franciscu Pala), and a splinter group from Sardinia Nation (SN) led by Gavino Sale. The latter and his followers left SN because of its alliance with the Sardinian Action Party (PSd'Az), which did not support independentism fully at the time and was engaged in alliances with Italian parties.\n\nAs soon as in 2004 (when Sale won 1.9% of the vote in the regional election) iRS absorbed virtually all the voters of Sardinia Nation, thanks to the charismatic leadership of Sale, a more coherent and instransigent secessionist platform and a more centrist political position. In the 2006 general election iRS won 1.1% of the vote in Sardinia, while it chose to boycott the 2008 general election in order not to be partner in crime with the Italian political system.\n\nAt the 2009 regional election Gavino Sale won 3.1% of the vote (4.2% in the Province of Oristano and 3.3% in the Province of Sassari, where the party had its early strongholds) as candidate for President of the Region, while the party stopped at 2.1%, short of the 3% threshold needed to enter the Regional Council.\n\nAt the 2010 provincial elections iRS candidates for president gained more than 2% of the vote in all the provinces and the party obtained its best result ever. Notably, Sale won 6.5% in Sassari (party list: 5.8%), Sebastian Madau 5.9% (5.8%) in Oristano and Salvatore Bussa 4.4% (4.2%) in Nuoro.\n\nIn January 2010, during a party congress, Ornella Demuru was elected secretary of the party, replacing Gavino Sale, who was elected president, and representing a power shift within the party from the old guard and younger activists. Notwithstanding the good results of the party at the 2010 provincial elections, the relation between Sale and Demuru was tense from the beginning. In October Demuru threatened her resignation and reclaimed more internal democracy within the party. Sale, for his part, replied that he rejected an \"intellectual-chic\" party as that imagined by Demuru and her supporters, who included the three founding members Franciscu Sedda, Frantziscu Sanna and Franciscu Pala, plus younger intellectuals such as Michela Murgia. During a grassroots' meeting on 12 December, Sale accused Demuru and the young guard of conspiring against him and, after this accusation, he was expelled from the party by the executive composed by Demuru's loyalists.\n\nBy the end of December Sale was sure to have won the power struggle and suspended the members of the executive who had expelled him. A few days later, on 2 January 2010, the group of Demuru and Sedda finally decided to leave the party and launch a \"Republican Constituent Assembly\" (\"Sa Costituente Repubricana\"). In February the new party took the name of Project Republic of Sardinia (ProgReS). Moreover, on 10 February, Claudia Zuncheddu left the Red Moors, party of which she was president, and joined iRS. Zuncheddu was a regional councillor, thus the party was represented in the Council for the first time. In May 2011 Zuncheddu ran for Mayor of Cagliari and gained a mere 2.4% of the vote, but better than Demuru, who stopped at 0.4%. Zunchedda would later form her own party, Free Sardinia.\n\nIn the 2014 regional election the party chose to join forces with the Italian centre-left for the first time (whose candidate, Francesco Pigliaru, was elected President), instead of forming a coalition with other independentist parties. Consequently, iRS lost much of his electoral support and won a mere 0.8% of the vote (compared to the ProgReS-led coalition's 10.8%), but, thanks to the alliance, Sale was elected to the Regional Council. It was the first time that the iRs was able to elect a regional councillor on its own, but it lasted just a year: in July 2015 the Italian Council of State invalidated the election of four councillors, including Sale.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14528720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14528720", "title": "Labour party proxy and undeclared donations (2007)", "text": "Labour party proxy and undeclared donations (2007)\n\nThe Labour party proxy and undeclared donations was a political scandal involving the British Labour Party in November and December 2007, when it was discovered that, contrary to legislation passed during the Blair Government, the Party had been receiving significant financial donations made anonymously via third parties. The careers of Labour Party treasurer Peter Watt and the leader of the Scottish Labour Party, Wendy Alexander, were curtailed as a consequence. In May 2009 the Crown Prosecution Service decided there was insufficient evidence for any prosecution relating to these events.\n\nOn 25 November 2007, \"The Mail on Sunday\" carried a front-page headline: \"How big Labour backer is a jobbing builder who knows NOTHING about his £200,000 donation\". It was revealed that Tyneside lawyer David Abrahams had donated at least £548,850 to the Labour Party since 2003 via two colleagues, his solicitor and the wife of an employee, which broke electoral law forbidding the use of proxy donors. Abrahams had had a colourful political involvement with the Labour party over many years.\n\nAfter being honoured with a front row seat in Sedgefield at Tony Blair's announcement that he was leaving office, in November 2007 it emerged that, in the time since Prime Minister Gordon Brown had come to power, Abrahams was now Labour's third largest donor behind Lord Sainsbury of Turville (£2 million) and Iranian businessman Mahmoud Khayami (£320,000 in September 2007). (Mr Khayami's donations subsequently came under some scrutiny in the press, though there was no indication that they were in any way illegal.) Abrahams has donated at least £548,850 since 2003, via two colleagues, his solicitor and the wife of an employee.\n\nAbrahams's secretary Janet Kidd \"gave\" £80,000, while builder Ray Ruddick – who has \"given\" a total of £196,000 according to a political donors list – had contributed £104,000 of the £222,000 donated by Abrahams in the five months since Mr Brown became PM. Mrs Kidd has \"donated\" £185,000 since 2003, and is also listed as a £5,000 donor to Harriet Harman's successful Labour deputy leadership bid in 2007;\n\n\"The Mail on Sunday\", which broke the story, investigated the donations after it emerged that builder Ray Ruddick lived in a former council house he had bought for £12,000, and drove a second-hand blue Ford Transit; while Mrs Kidd was a secretary living in Whickham near Gateshead. It also emerged that £167,000 had been given previously through another intermediary, solicitor John McCarthy.\n\nAnother go-between used by Abrahams, Janet Dunn, who is a lifelong Conservative Party supporter and a lollipop lady by profession, has subsequently claimed that she never knowingly paid any money to the Labour Party; she had only on one occasion signed a blank cheque for Mr Abrahams for £25,000 after he had paid a similar amount into her own bank account. \"I thought it was just a bit of business\", her husband has said. However a donation of £25,000 in her name was received by the Labour Party in 2003, although Mrs Dunn says the first she knew of this was on 26 November 2007.\n\nAfter the news broke of Mrs Kidd's \"donation\" to her campaign, Harriet Harman made a statement saying she accepted a donation to her campaign for the Labour Party deputy leadership (which she eventually won) on 4 July \"in good faith,\" had registered the monies with the Electoral Commission and the Register of Members Interests, and she \"was not aware of any funding arrangements ... between David Abrahams and Janet Kidd\". Baroness Jay of Paddington, who was working on the deputy leadership team of Hilary Benn, questioned and turned down a donation of £5,000 offered by Mrs Kidd; but it was subsequently accepted by Benn's team when made under the name of Mr Abrahams. Kidd offered a similar \"donation\" to the leadership campaign of Gordon Brown, but was turned down as she was not a known donor.\n\nOn 3 December 2007 Peter Hain, on BBC Radio, admitted that some donations to his own Labour deputy leadership campaign \"were not registered as they should have been\".\n\nAt the time of Abrahams's attempted offer of £5,000 towards Hilary Benn's campaign for the office of Deputy Prime Minister, and his successful donation of £5,000 to Harriet Harman who was campaigning for the same position, Abrahams was in the midst of protracted negotiations concerning a development he was proposing close to the A1. After initial proposals had been rejected by the Highways Agency, Abrahams made his donations, and resubmitted plans which were duly accepted the second time round. The Highways Agency was overseen by the Department for Transport which at that time was headed by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nJon Mendelsohn, Brown's chief fund-raiser, admitted that he had known since September about the arrangement, but claimed that he disapproved. Abrahams contends that Mendelsohn had known since April, and had encouraged the process. Mendelsohn denies this.\n\nThe General Secretary of the Labour Party, Peter Watt, resigned on 26 November, after saying he took full responsibility. In his monthly press conference on 27 November, Prime Minister Gordon Brown said donations to the Labour Party by Abrahams through intermediaries were \"completely unacceptable\" and would be repaid. The Electoral Commission is seeking to investigate under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 why they were given wrong names and what checks Labour made into its \"donors\", and has since called in the Crown Prosecution Service for briefings and advice.\n\nIn December 2007, the Metropolitan Police wrote to the Labour Party saying that \"the donated money was no longer an issue for the police\". Mr Abrahams and his middlemen were also cleared of any wrongdoing. It was also discovered that the £630,000 donated had not been returned to Mr Abrahams, although Harriet Harman had returned the £5,000 donated to her.\n\nOn 28 June 2008, Wendy Alexander announced her resignation as Leader of the Scottish Labour Party, due to pressure on her following the donation scandal. She said it was with \"deep regret\" that she was resigning following the decision of the Scottish Parliament's standards committee. She had come under pressure after breaking donation rules and faces a one-day ban from parliament. In her resignation statement, she claimed the breach of the rules was made in \"good faith\" and the decision of the committee was \"partisan\" but she respected parliamentary process.\n\nDonorgate meant that Gordon Brown's government was involved in an early scandal, and only a few months after the Cash for Peerages imbroglio which had beset Blair. There was heavy criticism from opposition parties, which includes calls for Harman's resignation. Conservative leader David Cameron questioned Brown's integrity during Prime Minister's Question Time and Liberal Democrat leadership contender Chris Huhne asked police to get involved, in particular as regards the planning permissions granted to Abrahams.\n\nPolitical funding in the United Kingdom\n"}
{"id": "853546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853546", "title": "List of Chinese dissidents", "text": "List of Chinese dissidents\n\nThis list consists of these activists who are known as Chinese dissidents. The label is primarily applied to intellectuals who \"push the boundaries\" of society or criticize the policies of the government. Examples of the former include Wei Hui and Jia Pingwa, whose sexually explicit writings reflect dissent from traditional Chinese culture rather than the laws of the state.\n\nMany Chinese political activists have been detained or jailed or exiled for their pro-democracy or rights defending activities. They include the following notable activists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22191262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22191262", "title": "List of First Deputy Chairmen of the State Council of Bulgaria", "text": "List of First Deputy Chairmen of the State Council of Bulgaria\n\nThe following is a list of First Deputy Chairmen of the State Council of Bulgaria.\n\nIn the 1971–1990 period, the Chairmen of the State Council — Todor Zhivkov (1971–1989) and Petar Mladenov (1989–1990) — were the heads of state of Bulgaria. The First Deputy Chairmen of the State Council were deputy heads of state. The State Council was abolished on April 3, 1990.\n\nBelow is a list of office-holders:\n\n"}
{"id": "1113681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1113681", "title": "List of Indian independence activists", "text": "List of Indian independence activists\n\nThis is a listing of people who campaigned against or are considered to have campaigned against colonial rule on the Indian sub-continent.\n\nThe Indian independence movement consisted of efforts by individuals and organizations from a wide spectrum of philosophies to obtain political independence from British, French and Portuguese rule through the use of a variety of methods.\n\nPost-Independence, \"Freedom fighter\" is an officially recognised category by the Indian government covering those who took part in the movement; people in this category (can also include dependant family members) get pensions and other benefits like special railway counters.\n\nBhagat Singh\nBorn\n1907[a]\nBanga, Punjab, British India \nDied\n23 March 1931 (aged 23)\nLahore, Punjab, British India\nOrganization\nNaujawan Bharat Sabha\nHindustan Socialist Republican Association\nKirti Kisan Party\nMovement\nIndian Independence movement"}
{"id": "163044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163044", "title": "List of Prime Ministers of the United Arab Emirates", "text": "List of Prime Ministers of the United Arab Emirates\n\nThe Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates is the head of government of the United Arab Emirates. While not required by the UAE constitution, historically the ruler or the deputy ruler of Dubai has served as the Prime Minister.\n\nThe first Prime Minister, Maktoum bin Rashid Al Maktoum, took office on 9 December 1971. He left office on 25 April 1979 and was succeeded by his father Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum, the Vice President of the United Arab Emirates. Every Prime Minister since has also held the title of Vice President. Upon the death of Sheikh Rashid Al Maktoum on 7 October 1990, his son Sheikh Maktoum Al Maktoum became Prime Minister for a second time. Upon Sheikh Maktoum Al Maktoum's death on 11 February 2006 while on a visit to the Gold Coast of Australia, his younger brother Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the current Prime Minister, succeeded him.\n\nThe UAE's Prime Minister chairs the Council of Ministers, which meets once a week in the capital, Abu Dhabi.\n\n"}
{"id": "10438109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10438109", "title": "List of current United States congressional joint committees", "text": "List of current United States congressional joint committees\n\nThis is a list of active joint United States congressional committees.\n\nChairmanship of joint committees alternates with each Congress between the senior majority Senator and the senior majority Representative. For purpose of seniority on joint committees, total time \"in Congress\" — Senate and House — is counted.\n\n"}
{"id": "37282250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37282250", "title": "London Declaration on Combating Antisemitism", "text": "London Declaration on Combating Antisemitism\n\nThe London Declaration on Combating Antisemitism is a declaration which asserts the need for global cooperation in the fight against Antisemitism by drawing \"The Democratic world’s attention to the resurgence of Antisemitism as a potent force in politics, international affairs and society\". It was signed on February 17, 2009, in Lancaster House, during the Conference and Summit of the Inter-parliamentary Coalition for Combating Antisemitism, by some of the world's leading parliamentarians.\n\nThe first annual conference of the \"Inter-parliamentary Coalition for Combating Antisemitism\" (ICCA) was held in London, England in February, 2009. It brought together over 100 parliamentarians and NGO representatives from 35 different countries to discuss the uprising of contemporary antisemitism (i.e. old and New Antisemitism) around the world, by sharing knowledge, experience and recommendations. By the end of the first annual conference, the Parliamentarians \"call upon national governments, parliaments, international institutions, political and civic leaders, NGOs, and civil society to affirm democratic and human values, build societies based on respect and citizenship and combat any manifestations of antisemitism and discrimination\". The conference concluded with the signing of the London Declaration on Combating Antisemitism.\n\nThe declaration deals with 6 fundamental issues:\n\nBritain’s prime minister, Gordon Brown, who was the first to sign the declaration, said:\n\nHannah Rosenthal, special envoy to monitor and combat Antisemitism, said at the 9th Biennial Stephen S. Weinstein Holocaust Symposium that:\n"}
{"id": "1539919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1539919", "title": "Luigi Sturzo", "text": "Luigi Sturzo\n\nLuigi Sturzo (; 26 November 1871 – 8 August 1959) was an Italian Roman Catholic priest and prominent politician. He was known in his lifetime as a \"clerical socialist\" and is considered one of the fathers of the Christian democratic platform. He was also the founder of the Luigi Sturzo Institute in 1951. Sturzo was one of the founders of the Partito Popolare Italiano in 1919, but was forced into exile in 1924 with the rise of Italian fascism. In exile in London (and later New York) he published over 400 articles (published after his death under the title \"Miscellanea Londinese\") critical of fascism and later the post-war Christian Democrats.\n\nSturzo's cause for canonization opened on 23 March 2002 and he is titled as a Servant of God.\n\nLuigi Sturzo was born on 26 November 1871 in Caltagirone to Felice Sturzo. His twin sister was Emanuela (also known as Nelina). One ancestor - Giuseppe Sturzo - served as the Mayor of Caltagirone in 1864 until an unspecified time and another ancestor was Croce Sturzo who wrote about the Roman Question. His two brothers Luigi and Franco Sturzo were well-known Jesuits. His elder brother Mario (1.11.1861-11.11.1941) was a noted theologian and Bishop of Piazza Armerina. His two other sisters were Margherita and the nun Remigia (or Sister Giuseppina).\n\nFrom 1883 until 1886 he studied at Acireale and then in Noto. He commenced his studies for the ecclesial life in 1888.\n\nSturzo received his ordination to the priesthood on 19 May 1894 from the Bishop of Caltagirone Saverio Gerbino (at the Chiesa del Santissimo Salvatore) and following his graduation served as a teacher of philosophical and theological studies in Caltagirone; he served as his town's Vice-Mayor from 1905 to 1920. In 1898 he received a doctorate in his philosophical studies from the Pontifical Gregorian in Rome in 1898 and he taught that subject in his hometown from 1898 to 1903. It was around this time that he knew Giacomo Radini-Tedeschi.\n\nIn his spare time he liked to collect antique ceramic art and while serving as the Vice-Mayor opened a ceramicists' school in 1918. He also founded the newspaper \"La Croce di Constantino\" in Caltagirone in 1897. In 1900 - at the same time as the Boxer Rebellion - Sturzo asked his bishop to serve in the missions in China despite the persecutions the Church was enduring there. But he was denied this request on the account of his precarious state of health. Sturzo also was involved since 1915 with Azione Cattolica. He was also close with Romolo Murri.\n\nSturzo's political activism and collaboration with his colleagues prevented Giovanni Giolitti assuming power once again in 1922 which allowed for Luigi Facta to assume the prime ministership.\n\nSturzo was among the founders of the Partito Popolare Italiano on 19 January 1919. The formation of the PPI - with the permission of Pope Benedict XV - represented a tacit and reluctant reversal of the Vatican's \"Non Expedit\" of non-participation in Italian politics which was abolished before the November 1919 elections in which the PPI won 20.6% of the vote and 100 seats in the legislature. The PPI was a colossal political force in the nation: between 1919 and 1922 no government could be formed and maintained without the support of the PPI. But a coalition between the Socialists and the PPI was deemed unacceptable within the Vatican despite the Prime Minister Giovanni Giolitti in 1914 proposing it and something his progressive and powerless successors—Bonomi (1921-1922) and Facta (1922)—reimaged as the single possible coalition that excluded the Fascists.\n\nSturzo was a committed anti-fascist who pontificated on the manners in Catholicism and Fascism were incompatible in such works as \"Coscienza cristiana\" and criticized what he perceived to be \"filo-fascist\" elements within the Vatican. Sturzo also wrote about the thought of Saint Augustine of Hippo and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz as well as Giambattista Vico and Maurice Blondel. He did this in order to elaborate on what he called the \"dialectic of the concrete\" and opposed this dialectic as a veer towards absolute idealism and scholastic realism.\n\nSturzo was not among the 14 PPI members who defected—under pressure from Pope Pius XI—to approve the Acerbo Law in July 1923. Sturzo was forced to resign as the General Secretary of the PPI on 10 July 1923 (he had served as such since 1919) after being unable to obtain the support of the Vatican to continue to oppose Benito Mussolini and his regime. He further resigned from the board on 19 May 1924. After Sturzo's departure the Vatican endorsed the formation of the \"Unione Nazionale\" which was pro-fascist and Catholic which hastened the rupture of the PPI and provided political cover for its former members to join Mussolini’s inaugural government. Following the Matteotti affair (after which Sturzo thought the Aventine Secession should return to Parliament) Cardinal Pietro Gasparri acceded to the wishes of Mussolini and forced Sturzo to leave the Italian nation before the re-opening of Parliament commemorating the March on Rome.\n\nSturzo was exiled from 1924 to 1946 first in London (1924–40) and then in the United States of America (1940–46). Sturzo left Rome for London on 25 October 1924. Sturzo was consigned to a 3-month educational trip in London; but the choice of London was perhaps intended to isolate Sturzo because he did not speak the language and it did not contain a large population of like-minded Catholics. He moved to the residence of the Oblates of Saint Charles in Bayswater and then in January 1925 to the Servites at their priory of Saint Mary in Fulham Road where he was asked to leave in 1926 because the Servites' motherhouse in Rome was being denied funds as long as Sturzo was their guest.\n\nIn 1926 he refused an offer from the Vatican - communicated through Cardinal Francis Bourne - to serve as a chaplain in a convent in Chiswick and lodging for his twin sister Nelina in exchange for ending his journalistic activism and issuing a \"spontaneous declaration\" that he was retired from politics in full. Instead in November 1926 he moved into a flat at 213b Gloucester Terrace in Bayswater with his sister where the pair lived as lodgers until 1933. After the signing of the Lateran Treaty in 1929 he was offered an appointment as a Canon of Saint Peter's Basilica in Rome again in exchange for his permanent renunciation of politics.\n\nOn 22 September 1940 he boarded the \"Samaria\" in Liverpool bound for New York hoping for an academic appointment and arrived there on 3 October. But he was instead sent to Saint Vincent's Hospital in Jacksonville in Florida which was filled with priests who were ill and about to die. Beginning in 1941 he cooperated with agents from the British Security Co-Ordination as well as the Office of Strategic Services and the Office of War Information providing them with his assessments of the political forces with the Italian resistance movement and radio broadcasts to the Italian peninsula. Sturzo returned to Brooklyn in April 1944 but his return to his homeland received a Vatican-Alcide De Gasperi veto in October 1945 and May 1946. De Gasperi with Sturzo on the scope of a referendum to abolish the monarch as the head of state.\n\nIn 1951 he founded the Luigi Sturzo Institute which was designed to endorse research in historical science as well as in economics and politics.\n\nSturzo set off to return to his homeland on the \"Vulcania\" on 27 August 1946 (after the June Referendum had abolished the need for a monarch) but did not have a dominant role in Italian politics after his arrival on 6 September in Naples. He instead retired to the outskirts of Rome after landing in Naples. He was made a Senator on 17 December 1952 and Senator for life in 1953 at the behest of President Luigi Einaudi and he obtained a dispensation from Pope Pius XII in order to accept the title.\n\nOn 23 July 1959 he celebrated Mass and when he came to the consecration of the Eucharist he looked down and slumped. He was carried to his bed still in his vestments and his health took a sharp decline until his death. Sturzo died in Rome in the afternoon of 8 August 1959 at the general house of the Canossians; his remains were interred in the church of San Lorenzo al Verano but were transferred in 1962 to the church of Santissimo Salvatore in Caltagirone.\n\nThe beatification process for Sturzo opened under Pope John Paul II on 23 March 2002 after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints issued the official \"nihil obstat\" decree and titled the priest as a Servant of God. Cardinal Camillo Ruini inaugurated the diocesan process of investigation on 3 May 2002. The diocesan process concluded on 24 November 2017 in the Lateran Palace.\n\nRecent reports indicate - as of August 2017 - that the beatification cause is gaining greater momentum and is close to a conclusion that would see Sturzo named as Venerable.\n\nThe current postulator for this cause is Avv. Carlo Fusco.\n\n\nSturzo was the author of several works in relation to philosophical and political thought. This included:\n\n"}
{"id": "859401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=859401", "title": "Ministry (government department)", "text": "Ministry (government department)\n\nA ministry is a governmental organisation, headed by a minister, that is meant to manage a specific sector of public administration. Governments may have differing numbers and types of ministries, but the Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedic Dictionary notes that all states have (often under varying names) a Ministry of Interior, a Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a Ministry of Defense (which may be divided into ministries for land, naval, and air forces), a Ministry of Justice and a Ministry of Finance. Ministries called the Ministry of Education or similar are also common.\n\nMinistries are usually immediate subdivisions of the cabinet (the executive branch of the government), and subordinate to its chief executive who is called prime minister, chief minister, president, minister-president or (federal) chancellor.\n\nDuring the 20th century, many countries increasingly tended to replace the term \"ministry\" with words such as \"department\", \"office\" or \"state secretariat\". In some countries, these terms may be used with specific meanings: for example, an office may be a subdivision of a department.\n\nIn Canada, five of the ten provincial governments use the term \"ministry\" to describe their departments (Ontario, Quebec, Saskatchewan, British Columbia, and Alberta) but the other five, as well as the federal government, use the term \"department\". Despite the difference in nomenclature, both the provincial and federal governments use the term \"minister\" to describe the head of a ministry or department. The specific task assigned to a minister is referred to as his or her \"portfolio\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, all government organisations that consist of civil servants, and which may or may not be headed by a government minister or secretary of state, are considered to be departments. Until 2018, the term \"ministry\" had been retained only for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice. On 8 January 2018, Prime Minister Theresa May announced that the Department of Communities and Local Government would be renamed at the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government to emphasise her government's prioritising of housing policy.\n\nSome countries, such as Australia, the United Kingdom Switzerland, the Philippines and the United States, do not use the term \"ministry\" and instead call their main government bodies \"departments\". \n\nNew Zealand's state agencies include a large number of ministries and a smaller number of departments. Increasingly, state agencies are styled neither as ministries nor as departments. All New Zealand agencies are under the direction of one or more ministers or associate ministers, whether they are styled \"ministries\" or not. Each body also has an apolitical chief executive, and in ministries and departments these chief executives often have the title of Secretary.\n\nHowever, in other countries such as Luxembourg a department is a subdivision of a ministry, usually led by a government member called a secretary of state who is subordinate to the minister. \n\nIn Hong Kong, the term \"bureau\" is used, and departments are subordinate to the bureaus, while in Mexico, ministries are referred to as secretariats. \n\nIn Nigeria each ministry is led by a minister who is not a member of the Nigerian legislature (due to the separation of powers) and is responsible to the popularly elected President.\n\nIn Lebanon, there are 21 ministries. Each ministry is led by a minister, and the Prime Minister is the 22nd minister of the Lebanese government.\n\nIn the European Union, departments are termed Directorate(s)-General with the civil servant in charge called a Director-General (in the European Commission, the political head of the department is one of the European Commissioners). \n\nThe government departments of the Soviet Union were named \"People's Commissariats\" between 1917 and 1946.\n\nThe term \"ministry\" has also been widely used in fiction, notably in satires and parodies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "349750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349750", "title": "Minnesota Experimental City", "text": "Minnesota Experimental City\n\nThe Minnesota Experimental City (MXC) was a proposed planned community to be located in northern Minnesota (near Swatara in Aitkin County). Proposed and studied beginning in the 1960s, it would have been constructed as a public private partnership. In contrast with many of the model cities of the time, the MXC was to be experimental, trying new things rather than proposing to select from the best of the existing practice. The project was initiated and directed by renowned scientist and University of Minnesota dean Athelstan Spilhaus.\n\nThe city was designed for 250,000 people over . In the plan, only 1/6 of the area would be paved, the remainder would be open space: parks, wilderness, and farms. Under the influence of Buckminster Fuller who sat on the MXC's advisory board, the plan called for the MXC to be partially enclosed by a geodesic dome. It would contain a branch of the University of Minnesota and 3M Corporation.\n\nAmong other proposed features were: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30013836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30013836", "title": "NATO Lisbon Summit Declaration", "text": "NATO Lisbon Summit Declaration\n\nThe NATO Lisbon Summit Declaration was issued on November 20, 2010 by the heads of states and governments, who participated in the 2010 Lisbon summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Touching upon various matters, it was described as geared towards pragmatic co-operation on issues of common concern.\n\nThe document was one of the three declarations, adopted by the summit, the other ones being the Declaration by NATO and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on an Enduring Partnership and the Declaration by the Heads of State and Government of the Nations contributing to the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF).\n\nThe Lisbon Summit Declaration consists of 54 paragraphs. Continuing the 2009 Strasbourg–Kehl summit stance in Georgia–NATO relations, the Declaration called on Russia \"to reverse its recognition of the South Ossetia and Abkhazia regions of Georgia as independent states\" once again. The Declaration also urged Russia \"to meet its commitments with respect to Georgia\" embodied by the 2008 ceasefire agreement following the 2008 South Ossetia war and subsequent treaty of September 8, 2008. Having reaffirmed the 2008 Bucharest summit decision, the Declaration reiterated that \"Georgia will become a member of NATO\".\n\nThe Declaration emphasized further support for territorial integrity of Azerbaijan amid Nagorno-Karabakh dispute and Moldova amid Transnistria issue in particular. It was noted that protracted regional conflicts there continue \"to be a matter of great concern for the alliance\". However, because NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen had not supported the idea of Nagorno-Karabakh conflict mediation, the Declaration assumed no legal force in that field.\n\nThe key provisions of the Declaration envisage continued support for arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation together with the development a missile defence capable to protect all European NATO member states and enhanced computer security. The NATO-led operations and missions are supposed to be embedded with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325.\n\nThe Lisbon Summit Declaration is considered advantageous to Azerbaijani diplomacy: at the 1996 Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe Lisbon summit Armenian delegation vetoed the Article 20 of summit's declaration, which supported Azerbaijan's integrity, prompting the Azerbaijani side to veto the entire document. The deputy executive secretary of New Azerbaijan Party Mubariz Gurbanli characterised the Lisbon Summit Declaration as \"quite significant\".\n\nThe Declaration was denounced in Armenia. Protesting against the reference to territorial integrity in the document, Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan boycotted the summit, leaving Foreign Minister Eduard Nalbandyan and Defense Minister Seyran Ohanian to represent the country. According to Giro Manoyan, a senior member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation, the Declaration showed Sargsyan administration's failure to boost Armenia's stance in the West despite rapprochement policy with Turkey.\n\n"}
{"id": "22429138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22429138", "title": "Nabawiyya Musa", "text": "Nabawiyya Musa\n\nNabawiyya Mohamed Musa Badawia(December 17, 1886 - 1951) was an Egyptian Nationalist and Feminist and is recognized as one of the founding feminists of the 20th century in Egypt. She is often partnered with Huda Sharawi and Malak Hifni Nasif as all three of these women gave lectures and put on other events to further education, health and reduce sexual exploitation among other things for women. She grew up in Alexandria and was part of the middle-class. Along with being an avid educator she wrote and published articles such as \"al-Ayat al –badyyina fi tarbiya al-banat\" (a treatise on girls' education) in 1902, \"al-Mar’a wa-l-‘amal\" (Woman and Work) in 1920 as well as editing a woman's page for \"al-Balagh al-usbui\" (The Weekly News).\n\nNabawiya Mohamed Musa Badawia, the inspiring Zagazigi fallahi woman that had strong nationalism and feminism ideas as a young-woman, she stood for the rights of her nation and fellow Egyptian women. Nabawiya's dad was an Egyptian officer who once went to a mission to Sudan and had never came back. Nabawiyya Musa was one of the first and last women to complete the education exam and be accepted into the Saniyya School under colonial rule because of their [who?] fear of women becoming too powerful ina society led by men. In her childhood her brother helped her learn to read and write at home; while she taught herself Math principles. By the time she turned thirteen she was keen on continuing her school education but her family refused, thus defying the established social norms of the time she stole her mother's stamp and sold her gold bracelet to apply for school and went on with her studies secretly against her family's wishes.\n\nShe finished her High School education in 1907 to become the first girl ever to finish high school in Egypt. In 1908 she finished her degree in education and went on to be a prominent educator for the middle-class and an advocate for women’s rights. It was not until after 1922 that more women were let into the newly established Egyptian University and by this time Nabawiyya Musa was a key lecturer and leader among her colleagues. Nabawiyya musa is famous because she was the first Egyption woman to go to high school.\n\nNabawiyya Musa was an avid writer and educator who gave lectures around Egypt advocating for the education of women. She believed strongly that educated women would only improve the state by being able to be independent, bring in money for the household as middle-class women and/or raise their children to be independent so they could grow up to be assets to society. She believed strongly that the lack of hierarchy in the peasant and lower classes was actually a good model of how women can be an asset to work and equal opportunities with men. She also believed that the differences between men and women were nothing but a social construct and could easily be broken with time. Through giving women and education she sought to end sexual violence against women. She believed that by giving women an equal status in the workforce and in education would make them less vulnerable and less prone to sexual violence.\n\nNabawiyya Musa was an integral part in the feminist movement in Egypt. She stood out because many of her views echoed very strong Egyptian Nationalism as well as equal opportunities for women. Along with highlighting the education of women, she was also a leading role model in breaking down the social constructs of women. She and her partners in the feminist movement believed that a radical call for unveiling of women was not needed in the beginning of the movement because Egypt was not ready to accept it. However, after attending a conference in Rome in 1923, she along with Huda Shaarawi and Ceza Nabarawi came back to Egypt unveiled as a proclamation to Egyptian society.\n\nMusa died on April 30, 1951.\n"}
{"id": "918783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=918783", "title": "National Democratic and Labour Party", "text": "National Democratic and Labour Party\n\nThe National Democratic and Labour Party, usually abbreviated to National Democratic Party (NDP), was a short-lived political party in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe party's origins lay in a split by the right wing of the British Socialist Party, primarily over issues raised by the First World War. In 1915, Victor Fisher formed the Socialist National Defence Committee along with Alexander M. Thompson and Robert Blatchford. They supported \"the eternal idea of nationality\" and aimed to promote \"socialist measures in the war effort\". The Committee was supported by John Hodge, George Henry Roberts, and for a time by Henry Hyndman who subsequently formed his own party, the National Socialist Party.\n\nIn 1916, this committee formed the British Workers League. It described itself as a \"patriotic labour\" group, and focused on support for the war and the British Empire and opposition to Little Englander and Cobdenite laissez-faire economics. The League was subsidised by Lord Milner, who consulted with Fisher during the war. The League was supported by Labour MPs such as James O'Grady, Stephen Walsh and William Abraham.\n\nThe League sought to challenge pacificist Parliamentary candidates; this caused a rupture with the Labour Party. Eleven out of thirty-eight of the Labour Parliamentary MPs showed support for the British Workers League; however, many later returned to the Labour Party.\n\nThe British Workers League reconstituted itself in 1918 as the National Democratic and Labour Party, with the support of George Barnes, MP for Glasgow Blackfriars and Hutchesontown, when he resigned from the Labour Party. The group gained the support of the Musicians' Union and parts of other unions, including some sections of the Miners' Federation of Great Britain. It was primarily funded by Lloyd George Coalition Liberals.\n\nThe party fielded twenty-eight candidates in the 1918 general election—twenty of them on the Coalition Coupon—and won ten seats, including Barnes in the Glasgow Gorbals constituency. Barnes was a member of the coalition government's cabinet until 1920.\n\nBarnes retired from Parliament in 1922, and the group's remaining MPs joined the National Liberal Party. The party was wound up in 1923, but a grouping continued as the Empire Citizen League until the late 1920s. Victor Fisher stood, unsuccessfully, for the Conservative Party.\n\nSome prominent members such as George Barnes were elected as Coalition Labour. Taylor ran as a joint NDP-Liberal candidate, and sat as a Coalition Liberal MP after election.\n\nTurnour ran as a joint NDP-Conservative candidate.\n\n"}
{"id": "305917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305917", "title": "National Wrestling Alliance", "text": "National Wrestling Alliance\n\nThe National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) is an American professional wrestling organization. Formed in 1948, it was for a time the most-recognized brand and largest governing body in professional wrestling. Under the control of the NWA Board of Directors (consisting of various prominent, regional promoters), the organization acted as a governing body for the NWA's national territory system which recognized one world champion, participated in talent exchanges and collectively protected the territorial integrity of member promotions.\n\nThe NWA thrived in America until the late 1980s, by which time most original members had gone out of business as a result of the World Wrestling Federation's national expansion. The largest remaining NWA member, World Championship Wrestling (WCW), which had been formed from the assets of Jim Crockett Promotions which in turn had itself acquired other former NWA members, would leave the NWA for good in 1993.\n\nThe NWA continued on as a governing body until 2012, when the rights to the name were transferred to R. Bruce Tharpe's International Wrestling Corp as a result of a lawsuit filed against then-Executive Director Robert Trobich and his company, Pro Wrestling Organization LLC, which controlled the trademarks on behalf of the organization. Under Tharpe, the NWA changed from a membership-based governing body to a private organization which licensed the NWA name to promotions. In May 2017, it was announced that musician Billy Corgan through his production company Lightning One had agreed to purchase the NWA as part of a deal that was finalized on October 1. Upon the finalization of the deal, the NWA's affiliate agreements were allowed to lapse.\n\nBeginning in October, the NWA began its first YouTube series \"NWA Ten Pounds of Gold\", focused primarily around the NWA World Heavyweight Champion and others in the division. On February 8, 2018, the organization launched the NWA Network, a professional wrestling podcast network.\n\nBefore the NWA was founded in 1948, there existed many regional professional wrestling promotions across North America (each promoting its own world champion). However, none of them had backing or recognition outside of their own respective geographic base-areas. The concept of the NWA was to consolidate the championships of these regional companies into one true world championship of professional wrestling, whose holder would be recognized worldwide. In 1948, Paul \"Pinkie\" George, a promoter from the Midwest, founded the original version of the National Wrestling Alliance with the backing of five other promoters (Al Haft, Tony Strecher, Harry Light, Orville Brown, and Sam Muchnick). This newly formed NWA Board of Directors wanted Brown to be the first-ever NWA world champion. During the reign of the second NWA World Heavyweight Champion, Lou Thesz (1949–1956), the title was further unified with several more previously competing world titles, such as those recognized jointly by the National Wrestling Association and the American Wrestling Alliance (in Boston), plus another version promoted from the Los Angeles Olympic Auditorium. This legitimized the NWA's claim that its title was a \"unified world title\" and its lineage continues to this day.\n\nThe NWA members divided up North America as well as Japan into territories that each promoter would \"own\" and operate in. Having a territory meant that no other NWA member could promote wrestling in that area unless special arrangements were made between the promoters involved. If non-NWA promoters tried to promote their show in an NWA territory, then the other member groups were obliged to send stars to help force the intruder out. Reportedly, threats of violence or physical retaliation were used against any promoters (and/or talent) who disregarded the territory system. If any member territory broke the NWA's rules, it faced expulsion, and thus risked missing out on having nationally known wrestlers appear on their local shows. For most promoters under the NWA umbrella, the benefits of membership were well worth the dues. Usually, the NWA President's territory was the main territory of the entire alliance.\n\nBeyond the benefit of having other promotions to draw on in case of an intruder, each territory also received periodic guest visits from the NWA World Heavyweight Champion. The champion did not have a \"home territory\" as such, but instead traveled from territory to territory, defending the title against the top stars of each territory. A number of former NWA World Champions often remarked that their primary goal was to make the top stars of each territory \"look good\" and give crowds the impression that those \"local heroes\" had the potential of being the champion by almost winning the title. Many promoters would build up to the appearance of the NWA World Heavyweight Champion weeks or months in advance, making the local world title matches that much more special, and the shows they headlined more lucrative. In addition, each NWA member promotion usually produced a TV show that aired in their territory only, meaning that the local fans only saw the world champion when he came to their area, not year-round. It was not just the champion that would travel the territories as often wrestlers from a different area would come into a territory (often the heels/\"bad guys\"), and run an angle or two with its top local faces (\"good guys\"). If the local fans ever got tired of a wrestler, he could go to a whole new area and perform the same act for new audiences, who would think the act was brand-new. This storyline was often advanced in the area from which the competitor was departing as resulting from the outcome of an especially highly promoted \"loser leaves town\" match.\n\nUpon becoming the booker for Lou Thesz in 1950, Muchnick, who was the head of the St. Louis Wrestling Club, became the new NWA President and maintained that position until 1960.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, serious disputes broke out within the NWA. There were antitrust problems with the government and there were a number of competing factions who wanted to replace Thesz as champion with different wrestlers, such as Verne Gagne. The antitrust case led to the infamous NWA Consent Decree of 1956 in \"U.S. v. National Wrestling Alliance\". There were also disputes over the number of dates wrestled by the champion in various parts of the country. The first break within the organization occurred in 1957, when Montreal promoter Eddie Quinn walked out of the August NWA meeting in St. Louis. Quinn had fallen out with Muchnick over a number of issues. Quinn was a partner in the St. Louis territory and disagreed with how it was being run, and was also angry that Muchnick had business dealings with rogue promoter (and Quinn rival) Jack Pfefer. At the time Quinn walked out, a wrestler of his named Édouard Carpentier was involved in an angle where he and Lou Thesz were both being presented around the NWA as champion. This occurred after Carpentier had a disputed win over Thesz on June 14, 1957 and some of the NWA promoters considered it a legitimate title change while others did not. The original idea was to build the idea of the \"disputed\" NWA title into a high-profile rematch. When Quinn left the NWA, Muchnick announced that Carpentier had never been an official champion and had no claim on the title.\nAfterward, Quinn saw the financial possibilities in the Carpentier situation and began to negotiate with factions within the NWA, as some territories such as Boston (AAC/Big Time Wrestling), Nebraska, and Los Angeles (NAWA/WWA) continued to recognize Carpentier as champion. He offered to have Carpentier lose a title match to their prospective champion thus giving them, if they decided to break away, a legitimate claim on the world title. The AAC recognized Killer Kowalski as world champion when he defeated Carpentier in Boston, and Nebraska recognized Verne Gagne as champion when he defeated Carpentier in Omaha (after winning the belt, Gagne tried for two years to work things out with the NWA, but finally left the organization in 1960 forming the American Wrestling Association. Gagne's win over Carpentier was used to legitimize the world championship status of the AWA title). The NAWA/WWA recognized Freddie Blassie as world champion when he defeated Carpentier in 1961. The promotion then left the NWA officially and became Worldwide Wrestling Associates (WWA) until it returned to the NWA in 1968.\n\nMuchnick's replacement at the NWA's helm in 1960 was Toronto's Frank Tunney; he in turn was succeeded by Fred Kohler, who was the main booker for the new NWA world champion, \"Nature Boy\" Buddy Rogers. Rogers had defeated NWA World Champion Pat O'Connor in 1961 in front of a then record crowd of over 38,000 fans at Comiskey Park in Chicago. October 1962 saw Rogers defeat Kowalski in a match promoted by Doc Karl Sarpolis, the NWA member promoter in Amarillo, Texas, and Sarpolis rose to the NWA presidency as a result. On January 24, 1963 at Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto, Lou Thesz defeated Rogers in a one-fall match and was declared champion. After the event, however, Northeastern promoter Vincent J. McMahon refused to recognize the title change and withdrew his operation from the NWA, becoming the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF, now WWE) with Rogers as the star performer. The WWWF recognized Rogers as its first world champion in April 1963. Although both Gagne and McMahon promoted their own world champions, their promotions continued to have representatives on the NWA Board of Directors and regularly exchanged talent with NWA promotions.\n\nIn the 1980s, video tape trading and cable television paved the way for the eventual death of the NWA's inter-regional business model, as fans could now see for themselves the plot holes and inconsistencies between the different regional storylines. Also, the presence of stars like Ric Flair on TV every week made their special appearances in each region less of a draw. Vincent K. McMahon (who bought the WWF from his father in 1982) used these gathering trends plus an unorthodox marketing-and-merchandising-based business plan, to turn his family's Northeastern United States territory into the first truly national promotion. To combat the looming WWF threat, various NWA promoters, and the AWA, attempted to co-promote shows under the Pro Wrestling USA brand. Internal disputes over creative control, power, and revenue sharing caused Pro Wrestling USA to eventually fall apart with nothing to show for their efforts. The AWA ended up owning the Pro Wrestling USA's ESPN timeslot, and used it to broadcast its own weekly shows.\n\nIn 1984, McMahon bought NWA member Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW) and merged it into the WWF, with the WWF taking over GCW's long-time TV slot on TBS. Meanwhile, to hold off the threat of the WWF, Charlotte, North Carolina-based Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP) decided to unify certain NWA territories and \"go national\" itself. Accordingly, Jim Crockett, Jr. began buying out some of the other NWA member promotions or, in some cases, allowed them to quietly die and just absorbed their rosters. Because of his acquisition spree, and because he failed to/ consistently match the WWF's ambitious marketing, TV production values, and merchandising, Crockett was facing bankruptcy by 1988. TBS owner Ted Turner bought JCP and renamed it World Championship Wrestling (WCW) after the popular GCW TV show on TBS. With the backing of Turner’s money, it grew into a national promotion. With time, WCW became the main NWA territory with the JCP versions of the Tag-Team, United States, and Television Champions being recognized on a national scale. Up until this point only the NWA World Heavyweight Championship and NWA Junior Heavyweight Championship had had national recognition. WCW was still a member of the NWA, but with time felt that the NWA needed it more than it needed the backing of the NWA, especially since both WCW and the WWF toured the entire country instead of staying within a confined territory. To make matters even more confusing, WCW spent much of 1992 and 1993 recognizing and promoting both WCW-brand world champions and NWA-brand world champions.\n\nAnother promotion that withdrew from the NWA to operate on their own was Mid-South Sports. Originally owned by Leroy McGuirk (who booked the NWA World Junior Heavyweight Champion for the NWA), the promotion was sold to Bill Watts in 1979. Watts changed the name of the promotion to Mid-South Sports. In 1986, Watts renamed his promotion the Universal Wrestling Federation (UWF) in a bid to expand nationally, but was eventually bought out by JCP in March 1987, after going bankrupt.\n\nIn February 1986, promoter Fritz Von Erich withdrew World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW) from the NWA in a bid to become a national promotion. He teamed with another former NWA member, the Continental Wrestling Association (CWA), and the AWA to try to compete with the WWF, but the arrangement soon fell apart due to inter-promotional politics. WCCW and the CWA later merged to form the United States Wrestling Association (USWA), which folded in 1997. Abroad, Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre (EMLL), All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW), and New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) all seceded from the NWA in the mid-1980s, but not many American fans followed or even knew about these promotions.\n\nIn January 1991, WCW officially began to recognize a WCW World Champion, with Ric Flair, who had just defeated Sting to regain the NWA World Heavyweight Championship, as the first title holder. Ric Flair was simultaneously recognized as the World champion of both the NWA and WCW until he left WCW over a dispute with WCW president Jim Herd (with the actual title belt in his possession) to join the WWF. Upon leaving, Flair was immediately stripped of the WCW World title but continued to be recognized as the NWA World champion, causing the separation of the WCW and NWA titles. He was officially stripped of the NWA World title upon his arrival in the WWF a few months later. Afterwards, the NWA World title lay dormant for a year until New Japan Pro-Wrestling hosted a tournament to crown a new champion. In September 1993, WCW withdrew completely from the NWA and despite Flair's possession of the physical belt made no mention of the NWA name on air after the split.\n\nIn August 1994, Philadelphia-based Eastern Championship Wrestling (ECW) withdrew their membership from the NWA in somewhat surprising fashion. As one of the most popular independent promotions of the early 1990s, they hosted a tournament to crown a new NWA World Heavyweight Champion after WCW had withdrawn from the NWA. The finals of the tournament saw Shane Douglas defeat 2 Cold Scorpio for the world title. In a surprising turn, Douglas threw the title belt to the ground, claiming that he did not want to be the champion of a promotion that died \"seven years before\" (when JCP became WCW). Shane then grabbed the ECW Heavyweight Championship belt and declared himself the ECW World Champion. ECW owner Tod Gordon then renamed the company to Extreme Championship Wrestling and officially withdrew ECW from the NWA. This act all but obliterated any remaining prestige connected to the NWA World Championship and relegated it to an all but forgotten status among wrestling fans.\n\nAfter the secession of WCW in 1993, the NWA wasn't what it once was. Through the mid to late 1990s, the organization was left with a small collection of independent promotions during the peak of the Monday Night Wars between WCW and the WWF.\n\nIn order to have joined the NWA, a promoter must have been operating for at least one year in a territory uncontested by any other NWA member, and their application had to be approved by a majority vote of the Board of Directors—with some exceptions. In August 2005, the presidency of the NWA was dissolved and the duties of the office assumed by the Board of Directors, following the resignation of Ernie Todd (NWA: Canadian Wrestling Federation). It was announced on the NWA's website on Monday, October 10, 2005 that NWA legal counsel Bob Trobich would become its new Executive Director. In April 2012, North Carolina businessman and NWA Carolinas promoter David Baucom took over as the Executive Director after the resignation of Trobich.\n\nIn August 2012, International Wrestling Corp, LLC, a holding company run by Houston-based attorney and wrestling promoter R. Bruce Tharpe, sued Trobich, Baucom, the NWA, and its then-parent company, Trobich's Pro Wrestling Organization LLC, claiming insurance fraud regarding the NWA's liability insurance policy. A settlement was negotiated that transferred the rights to the NWA name and trademarks from Trobich's company to Tharpe's. The new organization moved from a membership model to a licensing model, which caused many promotions to immediately cut ties with the NWA, including Championship Wrestling from Hollywood. CWF Hollywood was the unofficial home promotion of both the then-current NWA champion (Adam Pearce) and the most recent previous champion (Colt Cabana), both of whom publicly left the NWA, with Pearce vacating the NWA World Title while exiting.\n\nIn 2013, the NWA re-established a relationship with New Japan Pro-Wrestling, where Bruce Tharpe became an on-screen character, portraying a villainous manager of wrestlers representing the NWA. Over the next two years, the NWA World Heavyweight, World Tag Team and World Junior Heavyweight Championships all changed hands at NJPW events.\n\nIn September 2016, NWA signed a deal with the new Japanese Diamond Stars Wrestling (DSW) promotion to promote shows in not only Japan, but also other parts of Asia. As part of the deal, DSW chairman Hideo Shimada was appointed the NWA Vice President of the Asian Pacific region while Jimmy Suzuki was appointed senior NWA consultant.\n\nOn May 1, 2017, it was reported that Billy Corgan, singer of the Smashing Pumpkins, had agreed to purchase the NWA, including its name, rights, trademarks and championship belts. The report was confirmed by Tharpe that same day. Over the following weeks, the NWA trademarks were moved from Tharpe's International Wrestling Corp. over to Corgan's Lightning One, Inc. production company. According to multiple sources, as part of his acquisition of the NWA Corgan would be purchasing the name, rights and trademarks of the NWA along with the NWA title belts, Tharpe's stake in the NWA's \"On Demand\" VOD service and licensing of the Paul Boesch wrestling library. Corgan's ownership of the NWA took effect on October 1, 2017. All licenses granted by Tharpe to use the NWA branding expired the previous day, putting Corgan in complete control of both the brand and its championships. Corgan forms the organization's new leadership alongside Dave Lagana. With the exception the NWA World Heavyweight Championship, which is still actively contested, all of the NWA's other championship titles have since been vacated.\n\nIn 2018, the NWA briefly allied with Impact Wrestling (the former NWA: Total Nonstop Action) to hold an Empty Arena match at the Impact Zone at Universal Orlando in Orlando, Florida. It was contested by Tim Storm and Jocephus and served as a qualifier to challenge then-NWA World Heavyweight Champion Nick Aldis. The match was recorded on January 14, 2018 and uploaded to YouTube the next day. Spring would see the NWA ally with Ring of Honor. Aldis would appear at ROH's Supercard of Honor XII and Best In The World and defend the title against Flip Gordon at Honor for All in Nashville, Tennessee on July 21, 2018. On September 1, 2018, the NWA World Heavyweight Championship was featured at All In, with Cody defeating Aldis for the title. The following day, NWA Vice President David Lagana confirmed on the \"Voices of Wrestling\" podcast that Jazz is still officially recognized as the NWA World Women's Champion.\n\nSeveral smaller promotions that were once cornerstones of the NWA ceased to exist as the WWF (now World Wrestling Entertainment) and WCW grew to national levels. Indeed the WWF (then known as the World Wide Wrestling Federation) was itself previously one of the NWA's biggest promotions. It initially started out in the NWA, and managed to dominate the Northeastern U.S. territory after withdrawing from the NWA through most of the 1960s. The WWWF quietly rejoined the organisation in 1971, after WWWF's biggest draw, Bruno Sammartino left the promotion and in 1979 changed the name from World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) to World Wrestling Federation (WWF). In 1983, the McMahons and associates all withdrew from the NWA, Pacific Northwest Wrestling (PNW) was one of the main NWA territories into the 1980s, but, due to the aging of promoter Don Owen and dwindling profit, it closed down in 1992. Another territory that was once considered a main territory of the NWA was promoter and two-time NWA President Sam Muchnick’s St. Louis-based promotion, the St. Louis Wrestling Club, which ran until 1982 and was then sold to a promotion that Jim Crockett Promotions absorbed in 1985 in its attempt to create a national promotion. NWA Mid-America, booked by Nick Gulas, and the Continental Wrestling Federation, booked by the Fullers, both folded in the 1980s, but were long-time members. Southwest Championship Wrestling out of San Antonio was a member from 1978 until 1985, when it was bought by another NWA member promotion, World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW). When wrestler and Detroit NWA member Ed Farhat made several appearances as The Sheik in an \"outlaw territory\", his promotion Big Time Wrestling was deemed to have violated the NWA charter and was expelled from the organization. Another American former NWA member is Ohio Valley Wrestling, which was a member until it was made a WWF developmental territory in 2001.\n\nThe NWA is not restricted to the United States alone. At various points, promotions in Mexico, Canada, the Caribbean, Japan, the United Kingdom and Australia were members. In Canada, Maple Leaf Wrestling was a long-time member of the NWA, with its promoter, Frank Tunney, serving as the NWA President in the early 1960s. Maple Leaf Wrestling withdrew from the NWA when it was incorporated into the WWF in 1984. Another Canadian promotion that was a key member in the NWA until also being absorbed into the WWF was Stu Hart’s Stampede Wrestling in Calgary, although when it was relaunched in 1999, it did not become a member of the NWA. Another Canadian territory, encompassing the Maritime provinces of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island, was known as the Eastern Sports Association and operated only in the summer months. This promotion dissolved in 1977, and promoter Al Zink’s subsequent ventures into wrestling were not affiliated with the NWA. Out of Vancouver came NWA All-Star Wrestling. Run by promoters Gene Kiniski and Sandor Kovac, NWA All-Star Wrestling was an NWA member until 1985, after which recognized a fictitious sanctioning body known as the Universal Wrestling Alliance.\n\nIn Mexico, the primary NWA member was Empresa Mexicana de la Lucha Libre (now called CMLL). Founded in 1933, it precedes the creation of the NWA. EMLL joined with the NWA later on, but broke away from the group in 1980. Despite not being a member of the NWA since 1980, CMLL still recognizes three titles with NWA lineage: NWA Light Heavyweight Championship, NWA World Middleweight Championship and NWA World Welterweight Championship, which are all unsanctioned and only defended at CMLL events.\n\nIn the Caribbean, long-time promotion the World Wrestling Council, owned by Carlos Colon and based in Puerto Rico, was a member from 1973 until 1988, when the territory concept became semi-obsolete due to WCW’s growth. Rival Puerto Rican promotion International Wrestling Association, founded in 1994 by Victor Quiñones, was a member of the NWA from its inception until its withdrawal in 2001. The Dominican promotion Dominicana de Espectáculos, led by Jack Veneno, was affiliated to the NWA as well in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe NWA’s presence in Japan was established in 1953, when Japanese wrestler/promoter Rikidozan founded the Japan Pro Wrestling Alliance, (JWA) which quickly became the main promotion in Japan. In 1972, the JWA’s two top draws Giant Baba and Antonio Inoki left to form their own promotions, All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW) and New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) respectively. As a result, the JWA soon folded. AJPW became an NWA member upon its inception in 1973 and stayed until the late 1980s. NJPW was also a member of the NWA at various points between 1975 and 1985, mainly in order to gain control of the NWA Junior Heavyweight Championship. In 1992 and 1993, NJPW joined with the NWA once more to re-establish and promote the NWA World Heavyweight Championship, but left the NWA when WCW withdrew. NJPW returned to the NWA in 2004, again mainly for the NWA Junior Heavyweight Championship, and it is not a connection that is strongly emphasized. Between NJPW's departure in 1993 and its return in 2004 NWA representation in Japan was scattered among a few independent promotions: the International Wrestling Association of Japan (1994–1996); the Wrestle Yume Factory (1995–1997), the Universal Fighting Arts Organization (1999–2000); and Pro Wrestling Zero-One (2001–2004). In June 2007, the Inoki Genome Federation replaced NJPW as the Japanese affiliate of the National Wrestling Alliance. In February 2008, however, New Japan returned to the NWA. At the annual meeting in 2010, New Japan did not renew its membership and left the NWA yet again. In 2011, Pro Wrestling Zero1 returned to the NWA as their Japanese territory.\n\nThe NWA brand name has been seen most prominently in recent years in conjunction with Impact Wrestling, a former NWA member promotion started by Jeff Jarrett and his promoter father Jerry in 2002, which withdrew from the NWA in 2004. In 2004, Impact negotiated a new deal to license the NWA name and the use of the NWA World Heavyweight Championship and the NWA World Tag Team Championship, for ten years. On May 13, 2007, the NWA ended this deal, revoked official World Heavyweight and World Tag Team championship statuses from the current Impact-based holders, and scheduled tournaments for both newly vacated titles. Both sides wanted to end the arrangement as Impact wanted to brand its own World titles, and the NWA members wanted ultimate control on the choice and booking dates of NWA-brand champions.\n\nThe most visible NWA member promotion in the United States recently was NWA Wildside. It aired 300 consecutive weeks of syndicated television before closing in April 2005, when the promoter, Bill Behrens, signed a deal to work as a television syndicator for WWE. Bill Behrens and Jerry Palmer began NWA Anarchy after the closing of NWA Wildside. NWA Anarchy continues to broadcast weekly television programs appearing on stations all across the U.S. and Canada. NWA Pro Wrestling, operated out of Los Angeles by David Marquez and John Rivera, have been successful in running arena events throughout the American Southwest using top Lucha libre stars to draw houses. The promotion earlier known as NWA Championship Wrestling from Hollywood is broadcast in the Southern California television market on KDOC. It withdrew from the NWA in 2012.\n\nNWA also has affiliates throughout California and New Jersey. The largest and most successful member promotion of the NWA was New Japan Pro-Wrestling, the second-largest and most profitable wrestling promotion in the world (after WWE). NJPW was sanctioned by NWA member and wrestler, Antonio Inoki, who at times has also sanctioned Zero-One and the Universal Fighting Organization as NWA promotions. NJPW holds events consistently throughout Japan, and has also run shows in Europe and the United States. However, it is no longer an NWA territory, as Inoki transferred the rights to his Inoki Genome Federation when he left New Japan. At the 2010 Annual Meeting, New Japan did not renew its membership and has left the NWA. However, the NWA did re-appear in New Japan in 2013 as part of an angle with NWA wrestlers wrestling in Japan to try to take over the company, most notably former NWA Champion Rob Conway.\n\nThe late 1990s also brought in the first European member, NWA UK Hammerlock. Due to European recognition of the championships set up by the Admiral-Lord Mountevans rules and the match rule differences (for example, matches in Europe were usually divided into rounds), the NWA did not have a presence in Europe in its heyday. The promotion withdrew from the NWA in December 2013.\n\nIn 2008, a new Mexican promotion, NWA Mexico run by Blue Demon, Jr. (adopted son of the original EMLL star Blue Demon) arose as the NWA's new Mexican affiliate. Demon Jr. made an instant impact by winning the NWA World Heavyweight Championship (the first Mexican luchador to do so) without any EMLL involvement. NWA Mexico was disbanded on November 13, 2013.\n\nIn January 2008, Colours TV on Dish Network and the NWA announced that they would begin airing an hour-long show entitled \"NWA Wrestling Showcase\", featuring the NWA's current lineup of stars in action. The show was hosted by David Marquez (with Rob Conway co-hosting the first four episodes) with match commentary by announcers Todd Kenneley, Kris Kloss and Rick Otazu. Ten episodes were shown before re-runs began. All the matches were taped at the Plaza Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada. In January 2009, \"NWA Wrestling Showcase\" started airing new episodes, this time the tapings took place in Hollywood California.\n\nOn July 12, 2010, NWA Pro Wrestling, Inc. and KDOC-TV Los Angeles announced a partnership in producing National Wrestling Alliance branded television programming to the station beginning September 2010.\n\n\"NWA Championship Wrestling from Hollywood\" is a weekly television series that originates from KDOC-TV Los Angeles. The series premiere was on September 17, 2010. On September 9, 2012, Championship Wrestling from Hollywood announced it had left the NWA.\n\nSince the NWA was founded in 1948, there have been twenty different presidents of the organization. In 2005, at its annual meeting, the position of President was abandoned in favor of the position of Executive Director. However, after a lawsuit against the organization and its now former management by one of its members, R. Bruce Tharpe, the organization came under Tharpe's ownership through a holding company he formed. Afterwards, the Executive Director position was abandoned in favor of a return to President. On October 1, 2017, Billy Corgan became new owner following acquisition of NWA from Tharpe.\n\nThe NWA Hall of Fame is an American professional wrestling hall of fame maintained by the NWA. It was established in 2005 to honor select wrestling personalities, mostly alumni of the NWA.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3827272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3827272", "title": "Permanent fund", "text": "Permanent fund\n\nIn the United States, a permanent fund is one of the five governmental fund types established by GAAP. It is classified as a restricted true endowment fund for governments and non-profit organizations. Put simply, a permanent fund may be used to generate and disburse money to those entitled to receive payments by qualification or agreement, as in the case of Alaska citizens or residents that satisfy the rules for payment from their permanent fund from State oil revenues. It was first introduced through GASB Statement 34. The name of the fund comes from the purpose of the fund: a sum of equity used to permanently generate payments to maintain some financial obligation. Also, a fund can only be classified as a permanent fund if the money is used to report the status of a restricted financial resource. The resource is restricted in the sense that only earnings from the resource are used and not the principal. For example, a fund can be classified as a permanent fund if it is being used to pay for accounting services for a perpetual endowment of a government-run cemetery or financial endowments towards a government-run library.\n\nA common misconception is that permanent funds are required for special-purpose government entities that solely engage in business-type activities. However, this is not the case. According to Statement 34, that special-purpose government entity needs only to report the net balance of the restricted resources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41315495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41315495", "title": "Policy Monitoring", "text": "Policy Monitoring\n\nPolicy monitoring comprises a range of activities describing and analyzing the development and implementation of policies, identifying potential gaps in the process, outlining areas for improvement, and holding policy implementers accountable for their activities.\n\nMonitoring policy development and implementation is an integral component of the policy cycle and can be applied in sectors including agriculture, health, education, and finance. Policy monitoring can improve policy information, collaboration among stakeholders, and the use of evaluation techniques to provide feedback to reframe and revise policies.\nWaterman and Wood derived policy monitoring from agency theory, describing a process where policymakers monitor the actions of their bureaucratic agents who implement and enforce policies. This monitoring allows policymakers to compensate for their agents’ greater knowledge of the policy process, and enables them to be well-informed decision makers. Thus policy monitoring allows policymakers and interested actors to systematically examine the process of creating a policy, implementing it, and evaluating its effects.\nPolicy monitoring activities can be used to collect and analyze data related to the development and implementation of specific policies. It can also help link policies to specific outcomes and help identify and evaluate policy impacts. Policy impacts can include specific changes in behavior (e.g., increased number of people wearing seatbelts), finances (e.g., increased tax revenue), health status or epidemiology (e.g., reduced number of new HIV infections) or other social indicators (e.g., reduced crime rates, reduced levels of pollution). Data from policy monitoring can be used to support advocacy efforts and guide the development of new, timely, and relevant policies. Policy monitoring should also include the identification of operational policy barriers that can be addressed through policy and program reform, and findings can support improved implementation of existing policies.\nNumerous actors and stakeholders can influence the movement of policy from inception to implementation. Well-maintained documentation and review of all key stakeholders involved in a policy can help advocates for a given policy—such as military reform, water rights, or disability legislation—prepare to address different ideologies, capacities, or interests of key actors. Limiting stakeholder analysis only to government and official policymakers may ignore major groups that can support policy development. Policy monitoring coalitions should agree on what they are monitoring and be succinct in their recommendations to policymakers.\nPolicy initiatives themselves are often controversial, and policy monitoring can be contentious because it shows how well policy implementers and enforcers are doing their jobs. Those conducting policy monitoring should be thorough in their data collection and unbiased in their presentation of facts. Robust trainings on policy monitoring work can help organizations be systematic and effective in their policy monitoring efforts.\nThe United States President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)’s Monitoring Policy Reform tool outlines the progression of policy development related to HIV from problem identification to monitoring and evaluation. The tool supports a relatively simple and uniform monitoring process which can be applied to any policy area. This tool can guide policy monitoring efforts throughout the policy reform process.\n\nThe FAO’s Food and Agriculture Policy Decision Analysis (FAPDA) is a policy monitoring tool that provides a working cycle technique to identify policy problems and improve analysis of policy issues. By incorporating FAPDA outputs, such as a web-based tool, country policy review, and policy analysis report, policy dialogue can be more systematic and encompass different actors interested in FAPDA data.\n\nThe World Health Organization has started to develop dedicated monitoring systems for policy interventions on the social determinants of health that improve health equity, such as social protection and gender equity policies. \nPolicy monitoring can be performed through different issue-driven lenses, such as gender sensitivity or gender equality. Gender-sensitive policy monitoring analyzes any gender aspects of a policy or policy issue, and considers the impact of the policy on both men and women, as well as its impact on gender relations. For example, a policy that is shown to have improved the welfare of a household may not necessarily affect all household members positively or equally, and may have even exacerbated gender inequity. Gender-sensitive policy monitoring can help advance gender equity and improve policy implementation. Civil society and other stakeholders can use policy monitoring techniques to systematically gather data on the gender aspects of policies and use these data to influence policymakers to favor gender-equitable health policies¬¬¬—these processes are essential to facilitating gender mainstreaming.\n\nA 2012 study analyzed planned policy interventions across the 22 publicly accessible PEPFAR Partnership Frameworks to understand how the interventions are related to PEPFAR and country or regional priorities. The study found that “policy monitoring by donors, partner country governments, and civil society stakeholders can help measure whether policy interventions are occurring as planned in order to further HIV prevention, care, and treatment and health system goals and, if not, can point to needed changes.\"\n"}
{"id": "83933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83933", "title": "Resistance movement", "text": "Resistance movement\n\nA resistance movement is an organized effort by some portion of the civil population of a country to withstand the legally established government or an occupying power and to disrupt civil order and stability. It may seek to achieve its objectives through either the use of nonviolent resistance (sometimes called civil resistance), or the use of force, whether armed or unarmed. In many cases, as for example in Norway in the Second World War, a resistance movement may employ both violent and non-violent methods, usually operating under different organizations and acting in different phases or geographical areas within a country.\n\nOn the lawfulness of armed resistance movements in international law, there has been a dispute between states since at least 1899, when the first major codification of the laws of war in the form of a series of international treaties took place. In the Preamble to the 1899 Hague Convention II on Land War, the Martens Clause was introduced as a compromise wording for the dispute between the Great Powers who considered francs-tireurs to be unlawful combatants subject to execution on capture and smaller states who maintained that they should be considered lawful combatants. More recently the 1977 Protocol Additional to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949, and relating to the Protection of Victims of International Armed Conflicts, referred in Article 1. Paragraph 4 to armed conflicts \"... in which peoples are fighting against colonial domination and alien occupation and against racist regimes...\" This phraseology contains many ambiguities that cloud the issue of who is or is not a legitimate combatant. Hence depending on the perspective of a state's government, a resistance movement may or may not be labelled a terrorist group based on whether the members of a resistance movement are considered lawful or unlawful combatants and whether they are recognised as having a right to resist occupation. Ultimately, the distinction is a political judgment. \n\nThe modern usage of the term \"Resistance\" originates from the self-designation of many movements during World War II, especially the French Resistance. The term is still strongly linked to the context of the events of 1939–45, and particularly to opposition movements in Axis-occupied countries. Using the term \"resistance\" to designate a movement meeting the definition prior to World War II might be considered by some to be an anachronism. However, such movements existed prior to World War II (albeit often called by different names), and there have been many after it for example in struggles against colonialism and foreign military occupations. \"Resistance\" has become a generic term that has been used to designate underground resistance movements in any country.\n\nResistance movements can include any irregular armed force that rises up against an enforced or established authority, government, or administration. This frequently includes groups that consider themselves to be resisting tyranny. Some resistance movements are underground organizations engaged in a struggle for national liberation in a country under military occupation or totalitarian domination. Tactics of resistance movements against a constituted authority range from nonviolent resistance and civil disobedience, to industrial sabotage and guerrilla warfare, or even conventional warfare if the resistance movement is strong enough. Any government facing violent acts from a resistance movement usually condemns such acts as terrorism, even when such attacks target only the military or security forces. Resistance during World War II was mainly dedicated to fighting the Axis occupiers. Germany itself also had an anti-Nazi German resistance movement in this period. Although the United Kingdom did not suffer invasion in World War II, preparations were made for a British resistance movement in the event of a German invasion (see Auxiliary Units)\n\nWhen we talk about geographies of resistance, we often take for granted that resistance takes place in the spaces where domination, power, or oppression is present. So, resistance is often understood as something that always opposes to power or domination. However, some scholars believe and argue that looking at resistance in relation to only power and domination will not provide us a full understanding of the actual nature of resistance. Not all power, domination or oppression leads to resistance, and not all cases of resistance are against or to oppose what we categorize as \"power.\" In fact, they believe that resistance has its own characteristics and spatialities. In Steve Pile's (1997) \"Opposition, political identities and spaces of resistance,\" geographies of resistance show:\n\nWe can better understand resistance by accounting different perspectives and by breaking the presumptions that resistance is always against power. In fact, resistance should be understood not only in relations to domination and authority, but also through other experiences, such as \"desire and anger, capacity and ability, happiness and fear, dreaming and forgetting,\" meaning that resistance is not always about the dominated versus the dominator, the exploited versus the exploiter, or the oppressed versus the oppressor. There are various forms of resistance for various reasons, which then can be, again, classified as violent and nonviolent resistance (and \"other\" which is unclear).\n\nDifferent geographical spaces can also make different forms of resistance possible or impossible and more effective or less effective. Furthermore, in order to understand any resistance its capacity to achieve its objective effectively, its success or failure we need to take closely into account many variables, such as political identities, cultural identities, class, race, gender and so on. The reason is that these variations can define the nature and outcome of resistance. Harvey (1993), who looked at resistance in relations to capitalist economic exploitation, took on a fire accident happened in the Imperial Foods chicken processing plant in Hamlet, North Carolina in 1991, in which 20 of 200 workers were killed and 56 were injured due to poor working conditions and protections. He compared this accident with a similar fire accident at Triangle Shirtwaist Company, New York, 1911, killing 146 workers, which caused a labor resistance by 100,000 people. He argued that no resistance took place in respond to the fire accident in Hamlet because most of the people who died there were black and women workers, and he believed that not only class but also other identities such as race, gender, and sexuality were important factors in understanding nature and outcome of resistance. For an effective resistance, he proposed that four tasks should be undertaken:\n\nThere are many forms of resistance in relations to different power dominations and actors. Some resistance takes place in order to oppose, change, or reform the exploitation of the capitalist economic systems and the capitals, while other resistance takes place against the state or authority in power. Moreover, some other resistance takes place in order to resist or question the social/culture norms or discourse or in order to challenge a global trend called \"globalization\". For example, LGBT social movements is an example of resistance that challenges and tries to reform the existing cultural norms in many societies. Resistance can also be mapped in various scales ranging from local to national to regional and to global spaces. We can look at a big-scale resistance movement such as Anti-globalization movement that tries to resist the global trend of capitalist economic system. Or we can look at the Internal resistance to South African apartheid, which took place at national level. Most, if not all, social movements can be considered as some forms of resistance.\n\nNot all resistance takes place in physical spaces or geographies but in \"other spaces\" as well. Some resistance happens in the form of Protest Art or in the form of music. Music can be used and has been used as a tool or space to resist certain oppression or domination. Gray-Rosendale, L. (2001) put it this way:\n\nIn the age of advanced IT and mass consumption of social media, resistance can also occur in the cyberspace. The Aboriginal Health and Medical Research Council of NSW's Tobacco Resistance and Control (A-TRAC) team created a Facebook page to help promote anti-smoking campaign and rise awareness for its members. Sometimes, resistance takes place in people's minds and ideology or in people's \"inner spaces.\" For example, sometimes people have to struggle within or fight against their inner spaces, with their consciousness and, sometimes, with their fear before they can resist in the physical spaces. In other cases, people sometimes simply resist to certain ideology, belief, or culture norms within their minds. These kinds of resistance are less visible but very fundamental parts of all forms of resistance.\n\nSome definitions of resistance movement have proved controversial. According to Joint Publication 1-02, the United States Department of Defense defines a resistance movement as \"an organized effort by some portion of the civil population of a country to resist the legally established government or an occupying power and to disrupt civil order and stability\". In strict military terminology, a resistance movement is simply that; it seeks to resist (change) the policies of a government or occupying power. This may be accomplished through violent or non-violent means. In this view, a resistance movement is specifically limited to changing the nature of current power, not to overthrow it; and the correct military term for removing or overthrowing a government is an insurgency. However, in reality many resistance movements have aimed to displace a particular ruler, especially if that ruler has gained or retained power illegally.\n\nFreedom fighter is another term for those engaged in a struggle to achieve political freedom for themselves or obtain freedom for others. Though the literal meaning of the words could include \"anyone who fights for the cause of freedom\", in common use it may be restricted to those who are actively involved in an armed rebellion, rather than those who campaign for freedom by peaceful means, or those who fight violently for the freedom of others outside the context of an uprising (though this title may be applied in its literal sense)\n\nGenerally speaking, freedom fighters are people who use physical force to cause a change in the political and or social order. Notable examples include Umkhonto we Sizwe in South Africa, the Sons of Liberty in the American Revolution, the Eritrean People's Liberation Front, and the National Resistance Army in Uganda, which were considered freedom fighters by supporters. However, a person who is campaigning for freedom through peaceful means may still be classed as a freedom fighter, though in common usage they are called political activists, as in the case of the Black Consciousness Movement. In India, \"Freedom fighter\" is an officially recognized category by the Indian government covering those who took part in the country's independence movement; people in this category (can also include dependant family members) get pensions and other benefits like special railway counters.\n\nPeople described as freedom fighters are often also called assassins, rebels, insurgents or terrorists. This leads to the aphorism \"one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter\". The degree to which this occurs depends on a variety of factors specific to the struggle in which a given freedom fighter group is engaged.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the term \"freedom fighter\" was first used with reference to the Hungarian rebels in 1956. Ronald Reagan picked up the term to explain America's support of rebels in countries controlled by communist states or otherwise perceived to be under the influence of the Soviet Union, including the Contras in Nicaragua, UNITA in Angola and the multi-factional mujahideen in Afghanistan.\n\nIn the media, an effort has been made by the BBC to avoid the phrases \"terrorist\" or \"freedom fighter\", except in attributed quotes, in favor of more neutral terms such as \"militant\", \"guerrilla\", \"assassin\", \"insurgent\", \"rebel\", \"paramilitary\" or \"militia\".\n\nPartisans often use captured weapons taken from their enemies, or weapons that have been stolen or smuggled in. During the Cold War, partisans often received arms from either NATO or Warsaw Pact member states. Forces sympathetic to the communist ideology often received aid from the latter in the form of military equipment. Where partisan resources are stretched, improvised weapons are also deployed.\n\nThe following examples are of groups that have been considered or would identify themselves as groups. These are mostly, but not exclusively, of armed resistance movements. For movements and phases of activity involving non-violent methods, see civil resistance and nonviolent resistance.\n\n\n\n\nPlanned resistance movements\n\nKosovo Liberation Army\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "407919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407919", "title": "Rick Renzi", "text": "Rick Renzi\n\nRichard George Renzi (born June 11, 1958) is a former American politician who was a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives representing from 2003 until in 2009. In 2013, he was convicted on federal criminal charges against him for his involvement in a land-swap deal.\n\nThe charges for personal gain of over $700,000 were filed in 2008. On April 19, 2007, the FBI had raided his family business, and he temporarily resigned from the House Intelligence Committee. On April 27 Renzi denied printed claims he was considering resigning office; however, on August 23, Renzi announced he would not be a candidate for re-election in 2008. On February 22, 2008, Renzi was initially indicted on 35 counts connected to land deals. He pleaded not guilty. On June 12, 2013, Renzi was convicted on 17 of 32 counts in his corruption case. On October 28, 2013, he was sentenced to three years in prison.\n\nRenzi was born to an Italian-American family in Fort Monmouth, New Jersey. He attended high school in Annandale, Virginia, before moving to Sierra Vista, Arizona, in 1975, where his father, the late U.S. Army Major General (Ret.) Eugene \"Gene\" Renzi, served at Fort Huachuca. Renzi graduated from Buena High School and then attended Northern Arizona University, receiving a B.S. in criminal justice in 1980. Renzi played football for NAU and was a starting offensive lineman.\n\nUntil his death, Renzi's father was an executive vice president at ManTech International, a company providing information technology services to a number of intelligence and defense-related federal government agencies.\n\nRenzi and his wife Roberta are the parents of 12 children, the most of any member of Congress. Additionally, all of his children have first names that begin with the letter R.\n\nWhere Renzi lived and what he did throughout the 1986–1997 period is unclear. In a letter to the \"Arizona Daily Sun\" in July 2002, Renzi said \"The only time I have not lived in Arizona is when I served our nation overseas on a Defense Department program, or when I entered law school at age 39\" [which would be 1997 or 1998]. But according to an August 2002 \"Associated Press\" article, Renzi said that between college, starting in the late 1970s, and his return some 20 years later, he had lived in Flagstaff for only a total of seven years. The AP article also said \"Renzi made much of his money while living in Burke, Virginia, about 20 minutes from downtown Washington. He has owned a $765,000 two-story, six-bedroom home on five acres there since 1991, according to Fairfax County, Virginia, property records.\"\n\nIn 1989, Renzi started Renzi & Company (now called the Patriot Insurance Agency), a company that offers insurance to nonprofit organizations such as crisis pregnancy centers, pregnancy care clinics, maternity homes, PTAs, PTOs, and local service organizations. In 2006, Renzi said that he decided to enter politics because of his experiences as a member of National Association of Professional Insurance Agents. Renzi was a property/casualty agent and a member of PIA of Virginia & D.C. He said his first taste of the political process was attending a PIA Federal Legislative Summit. \"I had a chance to interact with a lot of the congressmen and Senators, and I fell in love with it\", Renzi said.\n\nIn 1997 or 1998, Renzi began to take law courses at The Catholic University of America in Washington D.C. He finished his coursework in December 2001 and graduated with a J.D. in 2002. While he was studying law, he claimed he was an unpaid intern in Senator Jon Kyl's office for two months in 1999, and in 2001 he spent several months as an unpaid intern for Representative Jim Kolbe. Senator Kyl later questioned the accuracy of Renzi's description of his work in Kyl's office, saying he was never employed there.\n\nRenzi moved his official residence from Virginia to Arizona in 1999, registering to vote in Santa Cruz County. In 2001, he bought a $216,000 home in Flagstaff, moving his voting registration there in December of that year.\n\nIn 2002, Renzi acknowledged that he returned to Arizona with the intention of running for Congress, but defended his state ties. He noted that between college and his return to Arizona, he lived in Flagstaff for a total of seven years. There is proof Renzi was living in Arizona after college because, Renzi and his wife did have several children who were born in Sierra Vista, AZ. Renzi also said he owned more than in northern Arizona through a real estate development and improvement business, in addition to a small vineyard and ranch in Sonoita, Arizona, west of Sierra Vista, in the 8th congressional district, and a home in Kingman. During the campaign, Renzi said \"Let the chips fall where they may if I'm a carpetbagger.\"\n\nRenzi won a hotly contested Republican primary election against five other candidates; his closest opponents were Lewis Noble Tenney, a former Navajo County supervisor, and conservative radio personality Sydney Ann Hay of Munds Park. Renzi outspent his primary opponents by a substantial sum of money. He invested $585,000 of his own money and raised another $100,000 to run radio and TV ads throughout the district. Renzi received 24.4 percent of the 46,585 votes cast in the Republican primary, with half of his votes coming from Yavapai County.\n\nThe 2002 Democratic primary, also hotly contested, was narrowly won by George Cordova, a party outsider who ran against several better-known candidates, including Stephen Udall, Diane Prescott and Fred Duval. (There was no incumbent for the seat, in a new district created after the 2000 census gave the state two more Representatives.)\n\nRenzi received significant support from the national Republican party in the race: President Bush visited twice, including a fundraiser; Vice President Cheney appeared at a fund-raising luncheon; Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton visited the district to support Renzi; and so did Mel Martinez, secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.\n\nThe campaign included the heavy use of negative advertising attacking Cordova, including accusing him of cheating investors out of $1 million in a failed business venture, failing to pay income and business taxes, and living in California. Cordova denied the charges but had no funds to buy many television ads to refute them. The Renzi campaign also made heavy use of automated telephone calls throughout the district with various claims and innuendos about Cordova. Renzi said of the $2 million spent on negative ads, that he \"took no joy in any of that.\" Renzi said he had tried to tell the National Republican Congressional Committee that the negative ads were the wrong way to go.\n\nDuring the 2002 election campaign, Renzi proposed that Walnut Canyon National Monument in Northern Arizona be renamed the \"National Park of the American Flag\" with the addition an American flag theme to the park, including displays of U.S. flags throughout history. This was in response to proposals by local citizens that Walnut Canyon National Monument be expanded and given National Park status. Renzi's proposal was widely ridiculed, and he has not promoted it since.\n\nOn election day, Renzi defeated Cordova by 49 percent to 46 percent, a difference of about 6,000 votes.\n\nRenzi spent $436,590 of his own money on the election. In addition to large donations from his father's defense company, Mantech International, Mantech executives were the largest single source of outside money for the campaign.\n\nIn 2004, the Federal Election Commission completed an audit of Renzi's campaign committee, \"Rick Renzi for Congress.\" The audit found that Renzi's campaign overstated its cash on hand by about $64,000, and that employers or occupations for 200 contributors were not listed, though required by law. The FEC also concluded that the committee had illegally financed much of the campaign with $369,090 of loans that came from \"impermissible\" corporate funds. Most of those loans were part of the $436,000 that Renzi put into his own campaign. Renzi was fined $1,000 in November 2005 by the FEC for underreported receipts stemming from what his campaign called a software glitch. During the summer before the 2006 election, the FEC dropped all charges related to the 2002 alleged use of impermissible corporate funds for his campaign.\n\nIn preparation for the 2004 campaign, the Democratic Party in Arizona tapped Paul Babbitt, Coconino County commissioner and the brother of Bruce Babbitt, to run for the seat and pressured all other candidates with the exception of political unknown Bob Donahue to bow out of the primary in order to clear the way for Babbitt to run against Renzi without a costly primary contest. Paul Babbitt's campaign was named a top national priority by most major Democratic fundraisers and liberal weblogs, because a plurality of Arizona 1st Congressional District voters are registered Democrats and because Renzi won so narrowly in 2002. Unlike the Cordova campaign in 2002, which received only token support from the national Democratic Party organizations, the Babbitt campaign received major support; nonetheless, it was unable to match Renzi's fundraising.\n\nRenzi faced no opposition from his own party in the Republican primary. Five Democratic Party candidates, including Bob Donahue, Mike Caccioppoli, Susan Friedman, Ellen Simon, and Vic McKerlie, ran in the 2006 primary in September, which was won by Ellen Simon, an attorney and community activist. David Schlosser was also in the November general election on the Libertarian Party ticket.\n\nRenzi won his re-election against Simon, 52% to 43%.\n\nOn August 23, 2007, Renzi announced he would not seek another term.\n\nIn 2002, in response to a question about spiraling health care costs, Renzi said \"In order to keep health insurance costs competitive, we must allow the self-employed to take annual tax deductions for their health-care costs. We must change the health insurance industry by allowing employees to purchase their own health-care policy. This would allow for personal ownership of health-care policies, which would provide portability, more choice and thus more competition, which leads to lower health-care premiums.\"\n\nRenzi was named one of the American Legion's \"Unsung Heroes\" of the 108th Congress. American Legion National Commander John Brieden noted that \"The 108th Congress passed a record increase in Department of Veterans Affairs health care funding for the current fiscal year, and it reduced the number of service-disabled military retirees subject to a 'disability tax' on their retired pay.\" Brieden said \"I commend Representative Renzi for taking a leadership role in making that happen.\"\n\nIn 2004, Renzi and Representative Jon Porter introduced legislation to split the Ninth Circuit court, currently the largest circuit in the U.S., which includes Arizona, into three smaller circuits. John Ensign of Nevada introduced similar legislation in the Senate.\n\nRenzi was generally a supporter of expanded legal immigration into the United States and supported expansion of guest worker programs and the H1B visa. He did strongly support using technology to enforce border security.\n\nIn June 2006, the House accepted an amendment proposed by Renzi to increase tribal law enforcement funding by $5 million and decrease spending for international organizations such as the United Nations by the same amount.\n\nOn December 14, 2005, he voted for the reauthorization of the Patriot Act. On June 29, 2005, he voted for the increase of funds by $25 million for anti-marijuana print and TV ads.\n\nIn September 2006, Renzi was named one of the \"20 Most Corrupt Members of Congress\" in a report by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a non-partisan watchdog group founded in 2005 by former Democratic congressional staffers. Renzi was also listed in the first report by the organization in January 2006, when he was one of 13 named members. The organization said \"His ethics issues stem from the outside income earned by his administrative assistant and from legislation he sponsored that benefitted his father.\" He was subsequently listed in CREW's 2007 and 2008 reports as well.\n\nRenzi has been criticized for consistently introducing and voting in favor of bills benefiting his father's defense company, ManTech International Corp., a Fairfax, Virginia,-based defense contractor. Renzi's father, Retired Major General Eugene Renzi, was an executive vice president of the firm, until his death in February 2008. ManTech had $467 million in contracts at the Army's Fort Huachuca with options for an additional $1.1 billion between 2004 through 2008. In addition, the company, which has an office in Sierra Vista, Arizona, was the largest contributor to Renzi's 2002 congressional campaign and the second largest in his 2004 campaign.\n\nIn 2003, Renzi sponsored legislation (signed into law in November 2003) that put hundreds of millions of dollars to Eugene's business while, according to environmentalists, devastating the San Pedro River. The provision exempted Fort Huachuca, in Sierra Vista, Arizona, from maintaining water levels in the San Pedro River as called for in an agreement made in 2002 with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Renzi claimed he introduced the measure to prevent the closing of the Fort and to promote its enlargement. Neither the fort nor the river is located in Renzi's Congressional district.\n\nOn October 25, 2006, just two weeks before Election Day, \"The New York Times\" reported that federal authorities had opened an inquiry into the case. According to the \"Times\", the \"officials said the inquiry was at an early stage and that no search warrants had been issued, suggesting that investigators had yet to determine whether there was a basis to open a formal investigation or empanel a grand jury.\" Federal investigators in Arizona reported that unexplained delays were encountered in getting permission from Washington for investigations prior to the 2006 election.\n\nOn April 19, 2007, the FBI raided his family business, and he temporarily resigned from the House Intelligence Committee.\n\nOn February 22, 2008, Renzi was indicted on multiple federal charges as a result of the investigation.\n\nAccording to the \"Phoenix New Times\", in 2002 Renzi sold off a half-interest in his real estate investment business to a fellow investor, James Sandlin, for $200,000. Renzi used the money for his 2002 congressional campaign. In 2003, Renzi sold the remainder of the business to Sandlin, for somewhere between $1 million and $5 million, according to financial records, retaining a \"future development interest\".\n\nIn October 2005, three years after the business transaction with Sandlin, Renzi announced he'd be introducing a bill in Congress that would include a swap of land owned by Sandlin (not in Renzi's district) for federal land near Florence, Arizona. A week after Renzi's announcement, Sandlin sold his land for $4.5 million, a much higher price than he paid for it.\n\nRenzi told the \"New Times\" that he did nothing wrong and that sometime after his announcement he recused himself from the bill after a lobbyist questioned his connection to Sandlin. The land swap never became law.\n\nIn 2007 news came of another $200,000 payment that Sandlin made to Renzi, this one in 2005, that Renzi failed to report on financial disclosure forms.\n\nOn October 24, 2006, the \"Associated Press\" reported that the U.S. attorney's office in Arizona has opened an investigation into the land swap deal. The US Attorney for Arizona, Paul Charlton, had initiated the investigation in September 2006.\n\nJohn Wilke in the Wall Street Journal writes,\n\nOn February 22, 2008, a Federal Grand Jury in Arizona handed up a 35-count indictment charging Renzi with conspiracy, wire fraud, money laundering extortion and insurance fraud.\n\nAfter the land swap controversy was revealed, an unnamed official from the US Department of Justice (DOJ) cautioned the media not to jump to conclusions regarding the inquiry into Renzi, saying it \"is not a well-developed investigation, by any means. A tip comes into the department. The department is obligated to follow up ... and we do that. People are assuming there is evidence of some crime,\" even though that is not necessarily true. The official added, \"Be careful. I can confirm to you a very early investigation. But I want to caution you not to chop this guy's (Renzi's) head off.\"\n\nAccording to the Arizona Republic, \"The federal official would not discuss whether the Justice Department was being manipulated for political purposes. However, the official said it is unusual for the department to publicly acknowledge concerns about the accuracy of media reports.\" In the same story, the official said the Justice Department contacted at least two newspapers about \"chunks of stuff in their stories that's wrong.\"\n\nShortly after initiating the investigation of Renzi, the US Attorney for Arizona, Paul Charlton, was belatedly added to a previously assembled list of US attorneys the Justice Department wanted to remove, in an effort that would become the dismissal of U.S. attorneys controversy. In February 2005, Charlton had been on the \"retain\" list of United States Attorney General Alberto Gonzales's chief of staff, Kyle Sampson, but \"by September of 2006 — after it became clear that Charlton had launched an investigation of Rep. Rick Renzi, R-Ariz, — Sampson included the Arizona prosecutor on another list of U.S. attorneys 'we now should consider pushing out'.\" Sampson made the comment in a September 13, 2006, letter to then-White House Counsel Harriet Miers.\n\nOn March 19, 2007, the White House released 3,000 pages of records connected to the controversy, including emails sent by Charlton to the Justice Department about his dismissal. On December 21, 2006, Charlton sent a message to William W. Mercer, the third-ranking official in the DOJ, writing, \"Media now asking if I was asked to resign over leak in Congressman Renzi investigation.\" Charlton never received a response from Mercer, about whom ethical questions had also been raised.\n\nThe \"Wall Street Journal\" explained further allegations: that the DOJ under Gonzales had intentionally delayed part of the investigation of Renzi until after the November 2006 election. They wrote:\n\nFurther, the Journal noted that investigators had unsuccessfully solicited the administration for clearance to tap Renzi's phone for months. That clearance was finally given nineteen months later, in October 2006. Unfortunately for the investigators, word broke of the investigation soon after, disrupting the usefulness their wiretap.\n\nOn April 24, 2007, Renzi stepped down from the House Financial Services and Natural Resources committees, as more revelations connected him to the U.S. attorneys controversy. During that afternoon, Paul Charlton, the US Attorney from Arizona who was inexplicably added to the list of those to be fired, related to House investigators that Brian Murray, Renzi's top aide, called Charlton spokesman Wyn Hornbuckle shortly after news of Renzi's investigation became public, making inquiries related to information on the case. Charlton, in turn, notified the Department of Justice about the call. Justice, it was discovered, had neglected to notify Congress of the contact.\n\nIn December 2005, Renzi hired Patty Roe, the wife of Jason Roe, the chief of staff of Representative Tom Feeney (R-FL), as his full-time administrative assistant. In that position, she is paid $95,000 per year. Renzi also pays her $5,000 per month ($60,000 per year) as a fundraising consultant (she ran her own consulting business before being hired by Renzi).\n\nTo be in compliance with the rules, Roe must be doing all her fundraising work before she clocks in to work as Renzi's administrative assistant, or after she checks out, and she can't make or receive a single fundraising-related call in her House office. Renzi's spokesman Vartan Djihanian said that this is the case: \"Whatever fundraising she does,\" he said, \"is on her time.\"\n\nRoe also received about $30,000 in fundraising fees in 2006 from four other House members: Tom Feeney; Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Mario Diaz-Balart, both of Florida; and Patrick McHenry of North Carolina. Renzi's office said those payments were for services rendered in 2005. There is no evidence that Roe's activities are not in compliance with House ethics standards.\n\nRenzi was an opponent of embryonic stem cell research. In May 2005, he engaged in an argument on the House floor with Congressman Mark Kirk (R-IL). The argument ensued after Renzi had learned that Kirk and the moderate Republican Main Street Partnership commissioned secret polling in the districts of Renzi and other members of Congress who oppose stem cell research. Renzi said, \"I was yelling at him. I told him it's absolutely unprecedented that Republicans would pay for a push poll to attack another Republican on such a core belief of mine... You're not going to change my view on the issue, as a father of 12.\"\n\nRenzi also received $30,000 in campaign contributions from former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay's ARMPAC.\n\nOn February 22, 2008, after \"Phoenix New Times\" columnist Sarah Fenske broke a story about the 2002 campaign financing embezzlement, Congressman Renzi was indicted on multiple federal charges. The charges included conspiracy, wire fraud, money laundering, extortion and insurance fraud. In October 2009, the government added a conspiracy to commit insurance fraud charge to the indictment. It alleged that Renzi and others willfully embezzled from a risk retention company called Spirit Mountain. In June 2010, Federal District Judge David C. Bury, a 2002 George W. Bush appointee, ruled that procedural errors precluded the prosecution from using available wire-taps as evidence in the case going forward.\n\nOn July 9, 2010, a Renzi partner-in-crime, accountant Dwayne Lequire, was convicted for conspiracy in the embezzlement of $796,000, while involved with Renzi, of insurance premiums from a dozen non-profits, which likely included anti-abortion crisis pregnancy centers and organizations such as Arizona Right-to-Life, which unknowingly operated without insurance per records from the Arizona Department of Insurance. As Renzi was vowing to represent anti-choice interests in Washington, he was stealing money from those very groups that aim to convince pregnant women to avoid abortions. A co-defendant, Andrew Beardall, was acquitted. Though Lequire could have been sentenced to 85 years in prison, the prosecution requested a three-year prison sentence and restitution of $475,400. Judge Bury reduced the recommended restitution to $26,500, gave him probation and assessed no fine.\n\nIn 2011, Renzi appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, asking the court to stop his prosecution. A three-judge panel held that Renzi's prosecution could go forward and the full court let pass a petition to rehear that decision en banc, allowing the case against Renzi to proceed. Renzi appealed to the Supreme Court but it also declined to hear his appeal so he was put on trial.\n\nOn June 12, 2013, a jury convicted Renzi on 17 of 32 counts in his corruption case that accused him of using his office for personal financial gain and looting a family insurance business to help pay for his 2002 campaign. That October, Renzi was sentenced to three years in prison. Renzi appealed his conviction to the Ninth Circuit, but the court upheld the jury's verdict. The United States Supreme Court denied certiorari.\n\nOn February 27, 2015, Renzi reported to Federal Correctional Institution, Morgantown West Virginia, to serve his 3-year prison sentence. He was Bureau of Prisons inmate 29375-208 and was released on January 6, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38889846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38889846", "title": "Roslin Institute", "text": "Roslin Institute\n\nThe Roslin Institute is an animal sciences research institute at Easter Bush, Midlothian, Scotland, part of the University of Edinburgh, and is funded by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council. In September 2017, Professor Eleanor Riley became the Director of the Roslin Institute and Dean of Research at the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies of the University of Edinburgh. to replace Professor David Hume. \n\nThe Roslin Institute was established in 1993 as an entirely owned but then as an independent institute of the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council. However, its former are closely associated to animal genetics research unit at the University of Edinburgh in 1919.\n\nThe Institute won international fame in 1996, when Ian Wilmut, Keith Campbell and their colleagues created Dolly the sheep, the first mammal to be cloned from an adult cell, at the institute. A year later Polly and Molly were cloned, both sheep contained a human gene.\n\nRoslin has made many other contributions to animal sciences, especially in the area of livestock improvement and welfare through applications of Quantitative Genetics. In 2007 a Roslin team developed genetically modified chickens capable of laying eggs containing proteins needed to make cancer-fighting drugs.\n\nThe Roslin Institute aims to enhance the lives of animals and humans through world class research in animal biology. The principal objectives are to:\n\n\nThe Roslin Institute are categorized by four Scientific Divisions.:\n\n\nIn April 2007, The Roslin Institute was joined by the Neuropathogenesis Unit of the Institute for Animal Health, well known for its role in deciphering the biology of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (mad cow disease, scrapie, CJD). In 2008, the Institute was incorporated with the Royal School of Veterinary Studies within the College of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine of The University of Edinburgh. There are currently more than 500 staff and students.\n\nIn March 2011, The Roslin Institute moved from its previous home in Roslin, a village in Midlothian, to a £60.6M building on the University of Edinburgh's Veterinary Campus at Easter Bush, across the road from the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies' new teaching building. The new building was designed by global architecture firm, HDR, Inc.\n\nThe Roslin Institute and Vet School are part of a formal consortium, the Easter Bush Research Consortium, with the Moredun Research Institute and the Scottish Agricultural College.\n"}
{"id": "990923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990923", "title": "Second Barons' War", "text": "Second Barons' War\n\nThe Second Barons' War (1264–1267) was a civil war in England between the forces of a number of barons led by Simon de Montfort against the royalist forces of King Henry III, led initially by the king himself and later by his son, the future King Edward I. The war featured a series of massacres of Jews by Montfort's supporters including his sons Henry and Simon, in attacks aimed at seizing and destroying evidence of Baronial debts. After a rule of just over a year, Montfort was killed by forces loyal to the King in the Battle of Evesham.\n\nThe reign of Henry III is most remembered for the constitutional crisis in this period of civil strife, which was provoked ostensibly by Henry III's demands for extra finances, but which marked a more general dissatisfaction with Henry's methods of government on the part of the English barons, discontent which was exacerbated by widespread famine.\n\nFrench-born Simon de Montfort, Earl of Leicester, had originally been one of the foreign upstarts so loathed by many lords as Henry's \"foreign councillors\", but having inherited through his mother the English title Earl of Leicester, he married Henry’s sister Eleanor without Henry's permission, and without the agreement of the English Barons (ordinarily necessary since it was a matter of state). As a result, a feud developed between de Montfort and Henry. Their relationship reached a crisis in the 1250s, when de Montfort was put on trial for actions he took as lieutenant of Gascony, the last remaining Plantagenet lands across the English Channel.\n\nMontfort took advantage of rising anti-Jewish sentiments in England. An alleged Jewish child murder of Hugh of Lincoln had led to the hanging of 18 Jews. Official anti-Judaic measures sponsored by the Catholic Church combined with resentment about debts among the Barons gave an opportunity for Montfort to target this group and incite rebellion by calling for the cancellation of Jewish debts. \n\nHenry also became embroiled in funding a war against the Hohenstaufen Dynasty in Sicily on behalf of Pope Innocent IV in return for the Hohenstaufen title King of Sicily for his second son Edmund. This made many barons fearful that Henry was following in the footsteps of his father King John and, like him, needed to be kept in check. When Henry's treasury ran dry, Innocent withdrew the title, and in regranting it to Charles of Anjou in effect negated the sale.\n\nSimon de Montfort became leader of those who wanted to reassert the Magna Carta and force the king to surrender more power to the baronial council. In 1258, initiating the move toward reform, seven leading barons forced Henry to agree to the Provisions of Oxford, which effectively abolished the absolutist Anglo-Norman monarchy, giving power to a council of twenty-four barons to deal with the business of government and providing for a great council in the form of a parliament every three years, to monitor their performance. Henry was forced to take part in the swearing of a collective oath to uphold the Provisions.\n\nSeeking to restore his position, in 1259 Henry purchased the support of King Louis IX of France by the Treaty of Paris, agreeing to accept the loss of the lands in France that had been seized from him and from his father King John by Louis and his predecessors since 1202, and to do homage for those that remained in his hands. In 1261 he obtained a papal bull releasing him from his oath, and set about reasserting his control of government. The baronial opposition responded by summoning their own Parliament and contesting control of local government, but with civil war looming they backed down and de Montfort fled to France, while the other key opposition leader, Richard de Clare, Earl of Hertford and Gloucester, switched over to the King's side. Under the Treaty of Kingston an arbitration system was agreed to resolve outstanding disputes between Henry and the barons, with de Clare as the initial arbiter and the option of appealing his verdicts to Louis IX. However, continued Poitevin influence and the failures and renewal of provocative policies by Henry's government soon inflamed hostility once more. The King's position was further weakened by the death of Richard de Clare and the succession of his son Gilbert, who sided with the opposition, and by the reversal of the papal annulment of his oath to uphold the Provisions.\n\nIn April 1263 Simon de Montfort returned to England and gathered a council of dissident barons at Oxford. Fighting broke out in the Welsh Marches, and by the autumn both sides had raised considerable armies. De Montfort marched on London and the city rose in revolt, trapping the King and Queen at the Tower of London. They were taken prisoner and de Montfort assumed effective control of government in Henry's name. However, his support soon fractured and Henry was able to regain his liberty. With violent disorder spreading and the prospect of all-out war, Henry appealed to Louis for arbitration, and after initial resistance de Montfort consented to this. In January 1264, by the Mise of Amiens, Louis declared in Henry's favour, annulling the Provisions of Oxford. Some of the barons who had previously opposed Henry acquiesced in this verdict, but a more radical faction led by de Montfort prepared to resist any reassertion of royal power, and both they and the king gathered their forces for war.\n\nFighting resumed in February 1264, with attacks by Simon de Montfort's sons Henry and Simon on royalist supporters in the Welsh Borders. Cancellation of debts (owed to Jews) was part of Montfort's call to arms.\n\nA series of attacks on Jewish communities followed, organised by key allies of Montfort, hoping to gain by destroying the records of their debts to moneylenders. These pogroms killed the majority of Jews in Worcester, in this case led by de Montfort's son Henry and Robert Earl Ferrers.\n\nAt London, one of his key followers John fitz John, led the attack and is said to have killed leading Jewish figures Isaac fil Aaron and Cok fil Abraham with his bare hands. He allegedly shared the loot with Montfort. 500 Jews died. Attacks occurred in Winchester, led by the younger Simon de Montfort. Anti-Jewish violence spread to Lincoln and Cambridge, Jewish communities were also targeted at Canterbury, led by Gilbert de Clare, and Northampton.\n\nIn April the elder Simon de Montfort, in control of London, assembled his forces at St Albans and marched to relieve Northampton, which was under siege by the royalists, but was too late to prevent the town's capture by betrayal. He then moved into Kent and laid siege to the royal stronghold of Rochester Castle, but on hearing reports of a royal advance on London he withdrew most of his forces from the siege to confront this threat. King Henry, however, bypassed the capital and the rebel army and raised the siege of Rochester, before capturing Tonbridge and Winchelsea from the rebels.\n\nMoving into Sussex, Henry was confronted by de Montfort, who had led his army out from London in pursuit. In the Battle of Lewes on 14 May 1264, Henry was defeated and taken prisoner by de Montfort, along with his son Prince Edward and his brother, Richard of Cornwall. While Henry was reduced to a figurehead king, de Montfort broadened parliamentary representation to include groups beyond the nobility, members from each county of England and many important towns. Henry and his son Edward remained effective prisoners. Around this time, Montfort announced the cancellation of all debt owed to Jews.\n\nThe radicalism of de Montfort's subversion of traditional order once again led to a fracturing of his brittle base of support.\n\nIn May 1265 Prince Edward escaped from de Montfort's custody at Hereford and assembled a new royalist army at Worcester. He attracted defectors from the baronial cause, most importantly Gilbert de Clare, de Montfort's most powerful ally. Simon was blocked from moving east from Hereford by royalist control of the crossings of the River Severn, completed by Edward's capture of Gloucester. Moving into Wales, de Montfort forged an alliance with the Welsh Prince Llywelyn ap Gruffudd, who provided him with soldiers. An attempt by Simon to ship his forces across the Severn estuary from Newport was thwarted when his transports were destroyed by royalist warships, and he returned to Hereford.\n\nPrince Edward meanwhile attacked de Montfort's seat at Kenilworth Castle, where the younger Simon de Montfort had been gathering forces to assist his father. The baronial army was caught asleep in camp by a surprise attack in the early hours of 1 August and massacred. The survivors took refuge inside the castle and Edward initiated the long Siege of Kenilworth. The elder Simon had taken advantage of Edward's move to Kenilworth to cross the Severn at Kempsey, and was on his way to join his son when he was intercepted and decisively defeated by the royalists in the Battle of Evesham on 4 August. Simon and his son Henry were killed in the fighting, and King Henry, whom de Montfort had taken into battle with him, was freed.\n\nThe victory at Evesham left the royalists in a dominant position, but the rebels continued to defend their strongholds, most notably Kenilworth, and the war dragged on. In 1266 the King was persuaded to seek a compromise settlement, and a commission of bishops and barons drafted a proclamation known as the Dictum of Kenilworth, issued on 31 October. This set terms under which rebels could secure a pardon and regain their confiscated lands, on payment of a heavy fine. The proposal was initially rejected by the rebels, but on 14 December 1266 hunger finally compelled the defenders of Kenilworth to surrender, accepting the terms of the Dictum. In April 1267 Gilbert de Clare turned again to revolt and occupied London. He was reconciled with Henry by a negotiated settlement in June, which eased the terms of the Dictum, enabling repentant rebels to regain their lands before rather than after paying their fines. That summer also saw the negotiated surrender of the last group of defiant rebels, who had been holding out in the Fens at the Isle of Ely. The total casualties of the war are estimated at 15,000.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13702201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13702201", "title": "Stalinist repressions in Mongolia", "text": "Stalinist repressions in Mongolia\n\nThe Stalinist repressions in Mongolia (, Ikh Khelmegdüülelt, \"Great Repression\") refers to a period of heightened political violence and persecution in the Mongolian People's Republic between 1937 and 1939. The repressions were part of the Stalinist purges (also known as the Great Purge) unfolding across the Soviet Union around the same time. Soviet NKVD advisors, under the nominal direction of Mongolia's \"de facto\" leader Khorloogiin Choibalsan, persecuted individuals and organizations perceived as threats to the Mongolian revolution and the growing Soviet influence in the country. As in the Soviet Union, methods of repression included torture, show trials, executions, and imprisonment in remote forced labor camps. Estimates differ, but anywhere between 20,000 and 35,000 \"enemies of the revolution\" were executed, a figure representing three to five percent of Mongolia's total population at the time. Victims included those accused of espousing lamaism, pan-Mongolist nationalism, and pro-Japanese sentiment. Buddhist clergy, aristocrats, intelligentsia, political dissidents, and ethnic Buryats and Kazakhs suffered the greatest losses.\n\nFollowing the Mongolian Revolution of 1921, infighting within the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party (MPRP) resulted in several waves of violent political purges, often instigated and aided by Comintern or Soviet agents and government advisors. In August 1922, Dogsomyn Bodoo, the first prime minister of the revolutionary period, and 14 others were executed without trial after confessing under torture by Soviet agents to conspiring to overthrow the government. Two years later Bodoo's chief accuser, Soliin Danzan, was executed during the Third Party Congress for representing \"bourgeois interests\". In 1928, several prominent MPRP members including Ajvaagiin Danzan, Jamsrangiin Tseveen, Tseren-Ochiryn Dambadorj, and Navaandorjiin Jadambaa, were imprisoned or exiled in a widescale purge of suspected rightwingers as the country launched its \"Leftist Period\" of more rapid collectivization, land expropriation, and persecution of the Buddhist Church. After those drastic measures resulted in popular uprisings throughout the country, several of the MPRP's most hard-line leftists including Zolbingiin Shijee, Ölziin Badrakh, and Prime Minister Tsengeltiin Jigjidjav were blamed and officially expelled from the party.\n\nIn 1933–34, in what is viewed as a dress rehearsal for the repressions of 1937–1939, MPRP General Secretary Jambyn Lkhümbe and other MPRP elements, particularly Buryat-Mongols, were falsely accused of conspiring with Japanese spies. Over 1,500 people were implicated and 56 were executed. The public hysteria surrounding the Lkhümbe Affair was spurred in part by Japan's invasion of neighboring Manchuria in 1931. To defend against possible Japanese military expansion into the Soviet Far East, Stalin sought to stabilize Mongolia politically by eliminating opposition to the Soviet backed government and securing an agreement to permit the stationing of Red Army troops in the country.\n\nMongolia's prime minister Peljidiin Genden, weary of growing Soviet domination, worked to postpone both a 1934 bilateral Gentlemen's Agreement in which the USSR promised Soviet protection of Mongolia and the 1936 \"Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation\" that allowed Soviet troops to be stationed in the country. Genden likewise balked at Stalin's recommendation that he elevate Mongolia's internal affairs committee, 26 percent of whose staff were NKVD agents, to a fully independent ministry and that he enlarge Mongolia's military. Finally, he resisted Moscow's pressure to exterminate more than 100,000 of the country's lamas, which Stalin called \"the enemies within\". Frustrated by Genden's obstinacy, Stalin backed the promotion of Khorloogiin Choibalsan as Marshal and head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In March 1936, Choibalsan orchestrated Genden's removal from office for sabotaging Mongol–Soviet relations. Genden was arrested and sent to Moscow, where he was executed a year later. Although the popular but politically feeble Anandyn Amar became Prime Minister, Choibalsan became the \"de facto\" most powerful person in the country.\n\nOver the next three years, Soviet mentors in the Ministry of Internal Affairs guided Choibalsan in planning and carrying out the impending purges. Under the direction of his Soviet handler Chopyak, Choibalsan had Internal Affairs Committee rules amended in May 1936 to facilitate the detention of high ranking politicians without first consulting political superiors. Soon thereafter 23 high ranking lamas were arrested for participating in a \"counter revolutionary center.\" Following a yearlong trial they were publicly executed in early October 1937. When Mongolia's Procurator General protested the lamas' prosecution, he too was arrested and then shot.\n\nIn August 1937, the 36-year-old Marshal Demid, whose popularity Choibalsan had always resented, died under suspicious circumstances resulting in Choibalsan's promotion to the dual role of sole Commander-in-Chief of the Mongolian military and Minister of Defense. The following day Choibalsan, as Interior Minister, issued Order 366 which declared that many in Mongolia \"had fallen under the influence of Japanese spies and provocateurs.\" That same month Stalin, alarmed by Japanese military movements in Manchuria ordered the stationing of 30,000 Red Army troops in Mongolia and had dispatched a large Soviet delegation to Ulaanbaatar under Soviet Deputy NKVD Commissar Mikhail Frinovsky. Frinovsky was charged with setting in motion the violent purges that he had so effectively carried out in the Soviet Union under NKVD Chief Nikolai Yezhov. Working through Soviet advisers already embedded within the Ministry of Interior and with a compliant Choibalsan providing symbolic cover, Frinovsky built the purge framework from behind the scenes; producing arrest lists and assembling an \"Emergency Commission\", an NKVD style Troika (headed by Choibalsan) to try and sentence suspects extra-judiciously.\n\nThe arrest of 65 high ranking government officials and intelligentsia on the night of Sept 10, 1937 signaled the launch of the purges in earnest. All were accused of spying for Japan as part of a Genden-Demid plot and most confessed under intense torture. The first show trial was staged at Ulaanbaatar's Central Theater from 18 to 20 October 1937. 13 of the 14 persons accused were sentenced to death.\n\nIn a spasm of violence that lasted nearly 18 months, Choibalsan's troika approved and carried out the execution of over 18,000 counterrevolutionary lamas. Monks that were not executed were conscripted into the Mongolian armed forces or otherwise forcibly laicized while 746 of the country's monasteries were liquidated. Thousands more dissident intellectuals, political and government officials labeled \"enemies of the revolution,\" as well as ethnic Buryats and Kazakhs were also rounded up and killed. 25 persons from top positions in the party and government were executed, 187 from the military leadership, 36 of the 51 members of the Central Committee. Following the Russian model, Choibalsan opened gulags in the countryside to imprison dissidents. While the NKVD effectively managed the purge by staging show trials and carrying out executions, a frequently intoxicated Choibalsan was sometimes present during torture and interrogations of suspected counterrevolutionaries, including old friends and comrades. Choibalsan rubber-stamped NKVD execution orders and at times personally directed executions. He also added names of political enemies to NKVD arrest lists simply to settle old scores. Nevertheless, even when he attempted to spare victims by recommending leniency in certain cases, NKVD officers often overrode his decision.\n\nRacked with stress, Choibalsan spent six months (August 1938 – January 1939) recuperating and consulting with Voroshilov, Yezhov, and Stalin in Moscow and Sochi while NKVD agents and Interior Ministry officials carried on purge operations from Ulaanbaatar. When he returned to Mongolia, Choibalsan followed Soviet directives and had the highly popular Prime Minister Amar purged. Choibalsan claimed he \"had helped anti-government plotters, opposed their arrest, and neglected the defense of the borders. He betrayed his own country and was a traitor to the revolution.\" After a coordinated propaganda campaign, Amar was arrested on 7 March 1939 and sent to the USSR, where he was later tried by a Soviet Troika and executed.\n\nWith Amar's removal, Choibalsan became Mongolia's uncontested leader, simultaneously holding the office Prime Minister, Minister for Internal Affairs, Minister of War, and Commander in Chief of the Mongolian armed forces. Secured in his position, Choibalsan brought the terror to an end in April 1939 by declaring that the excesses of the purges had been conducted by overzealous party officials while he was away in the USSR, but that he had overseen the arrests of the real criminals. Official blame for the purges fell on the deputy minister of internal affairs Nasantogtoh, and his former Soviet handler Kichikov. Later, other henchmen of the purge were arrested and executed, including Luvsansharav, Bayasgalan, Dashtseveg, and Luvsandorj. Dogsom and Losol, the last two living members (besides Choibalsan himself) of the original seven founding members of the MPRP, were also arrested. Dogsom was executed in 1941. Losol died in a Soviet prison before his case came to trial.\n\nBy the time the purges ended in early 1939, an entire stratum of Mongolian society had effectively been exterminated while much of Mongolia's cultural heritage lay in ruins. Approximately 18,000 lamas were condemned to death while thousands more were forcibly laicized and conscripted into the Mongolian army. More than 700 Buddhist monasteries were destroyed. The old guard revolutionary class, viewed as heavily nationalist, was eliminated; twenty five persons from top positions in the party and government were executed (including former prime ministers Peljidiin Genden and Anandyn Amar), 187 from the military leadership, and 36 of the 51 members of the Central Committee. Choibalsan became Mongolia's unquestioned leader backed by Soviet advisors and a growing Red Army presence in the country and supported by younger apparatchiks who were more closely aligned with the Soviet Union, such as future leader Yumjaagiin Tsedenbal.\n\nIn the 50 years following the repressions, any public discourse on the matter was discourage or condemned. At the time of his death in 1952 Choibalsan was widely mourned as a hero, a patriot, and ultimately a martyr for the cause of Mongolian independence. Remnants of his strong personality cult, as well as successful efforts by his successor Tsendenbal to obstruct \"de-Stalinization\" efforts that could have shed light on the purges, helped solidify the positive regard many Mongolians held of their former leader. Some scholars have suggested the inclination of Mongolians to avoid blaming Choibalsan for the purges is in effect an attempt to exonerate themselves for what happened. Public anger over the violence of the purges falls predominantly on the Soviet Union and the NKVD, with Choibalsan viewed sympathetically (if not pathetically) as a puppet with little choice but to follow Moscow's instructions or else meet the fate of his predecessors Genden and Amar.\n\nWith the end of socialist rule in 1990, however, re-examination of the Socialist Era, and particularly the Great Repression, has occurred and there does seem to be an attempt by some Mongolians to come to terms the country's past in a more general context. In 1991 mass graves of monks executed during the repressions were uncovered near Mörön, and in 2003 in Ulaanbaatar. The corpses of hundreds of executed lamas and civilians were unearthed, all killed with a single shot to the base of the skull. At the same time, there have been concerted efforts by various groups to restore many of the temples and monasteries that were destroyed during the purges.\n\n\nA number of prominent Buryats connected to Mongolia were imprisoned and killed during the purges in the Soviet Union, among them:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40642042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40642042", "title": "Tajik Border Troops", "text": "Tajik Border Troops\n\nThe Border Troops, also called the Border Service, is the border security force of Tajikistan. Functioning under the military of Tajikistan, the border guards are trained by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, along with the Afghan Border Police. A higher education college is located in the capital, Dushanbe, the Border Troops Academy, and a Border Troops Training Centre is located south of it, in the Rudaki District. \n\nIn 2011, the Border Troops, along with the national army and mobile forces, took part in a military drill with Kyrgyzstan. Their objective was to eliminate two terrorist groups on the Kyrgyz-Tajik border.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9057072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9057072", "title": "Texas Cryptologic Center", "text": "Texas Cryptologic Center\n\nThe NSA/CSS Texas Cryptologic Center (TCC), also known as the Texas Cryptology Center, Texas Cryptographic Center or NSA Texas, is a satellite campus at the Medina Annex, Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas, operated by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA).<ref name=\"NSA/CSS\">Recommended Requirements for cryptanalysts at CCs at Texas, Georgia and Hawaii to access NSA and FBI FISA material</ref> It is adjacent to the former Medina National Stockpile Site.\n\nThe TCC site was formerly known as the Medina Regional Security Operations Center (RSOC), which includes the Regional Technical Control and Analysis Element (TCAE). The Medina RSOC was known to house 2200 Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force and civilian Department of Defense employees, including two squadrons of the 70th Intelligence Wing—the 543rd Support Squadron and the 93rd Intelligence Squadron.\n\nIn 2005 the NSA leased a nearby defunct chip plant from Sony at Loop 410 and Military Drive and announced plans to more than double the number of employees over the next two to three years. The NSA has completed the construction of a new Data Storage Complex on the old Sony plant grounds as of June 2010, but the current employee count remains classified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1070016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1070016", "title": "Unification of Germany", "text": "Unification of Germany\n\nThe unification of Germany into a politically and administratively integrated nation state officially occurred on 18 January 1871, in the Hall of Mirrors at the Palace of Versailles in France. Princes of the German states, excluding Austria, gathered there to proclaim William I of Prussia as German Emperor after the French capitulation in the Franco-Prussian War. Unofficially, the \"de facto\" transition of most of the German-speaking populations into a federated organization of states had been developing for some time through alliances formal and informal between princely rulers, but in fits and starts. The self-interests of the various parties hampered the process over nearly a century of autocratic experimentation, beginning in the era of the Napoleonic Wars, which prompted the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806, and the subsequent rise of German nationalism.\n\nUnification exposed tensions due to religious, linguistic, social, and cultural differences among the inhabitants of the new nation, suggesting that 1871 only represented one moment in a continuum of the larger unification processes. The Holy Roman Emperor had been often called \"Emperor of all the Germanies\"; contemporary news accounts frequently referred to \"The Germanies\". In the empire, higher nobility were referred to as \"Princes of Germany\" or \"Princes of the Germanies\"—for the lands once called East Francia had been organized and governed as pocket kingdoms since before the rise of Charlemagne (800 AD). In the mountainous terrain of much of the territory, isolated peoples developed cultural, educational, linguistic, and religious differences over such a lengthy time period. By the nineteenth century, transportation and communications improvements brought these regions closer together.\n\nThe Holy Roman Empire, which had included more than 500 independent states, was effectively dissolved when Emperor Francis II abdicated (6 August 1806) during the War of the Third Coalition. Despite the legal, administrative, and political disruption associated with the end of the Empire, the people of the German-speaking areas of the old Empire had a common linguistic, cultural, and legal tradition further enhanced by their shared experience in the French Revolutionary Wars and Napoleonic Wars. European liberalism offered an intellectual basis for unification by challenging dynastic and absolutist models of social and political organization; its German manifestation emphasized the importance of tradition, education, and linguistic unity of peoples in a geographic region. Economically, the creation of the Prussian (customs union) in 1818, and its subsequent expansion to include other states of the German Confederation, reduced competition between and within states. Emerging modes of transportation facilitated business and recreational travel, leading to contact and sometimes conflict among German speakers from throughout Central Europe.\n\nThe model of diplomatic spheres of influence resulting from the Congress of Vienna in 1814–15 after the Napoleonic Wars endorsed Austrian dominance in Central Europe. The negotiators at Vienna took no account of Prussia's growing strength within and among the German states and so failed to foresee that Prussia would rise to challenge Austria for leadership of the German peoples. This German dualism presented two solutions to the problem of unification: , the small Germany solution (Germany without Austria), or , the greater Germany solution (Germany with Austria).\n\nHistorians debate whether Otto von Bismarck—Minister President of Prussia—had a master plan to expand the North German Confederation of 1866 to include the remaining independent German states into a single entity or simply to expand the power of the Kingdom of Prussia. They conclude that factors in addition to the strength of Bismarck's led a collection of early modern polities to reorganize political, economic, military, and diplomatic relationships in the 19th century. Reaction to Danish and French nationalism provided foci for expressions of German unity. Military successes—especially those of Prussia—in three regional wars generated enthusiasm and pride that politicians could harness to promote unification. This experience echoed the memory of mutual accomplishment in the Napoleonic Wars, particularly in the War of Liberation of 1813–14. By establishing a Germany without Austria, the political and administrative unification in 1871 at least temporarily solved the problem of dualism.\n\n\nPrior to 1803, German-speaking Central Europe included more than 300 political entities, most of which were part of the Holy Roman Empire or the extensive Habsburg hereditary dominions. They ranged in size from the small and complex territories of the princely Hohenlohe family branches to sizable, well-defined territories such as the Kingdoms of Bavaria and Prussia. Their governance varied: they included free imperial cities, also of different sizes, such as the powerful Augsburg and the minuscule Weil der Stadt; ecclesiastical territories, also of varying sizes and influence, such as the wealthy Abbey of Reichenau and the powerful Archbishopric of Cologne; and dynastic states such as Württemberg. These lands (or parts of them—both the Habsburg domains and Hohenzollern Prussia also included territories outside the Empire structures) made up the territory of the Holy Roman Empire, which at times included more than 1,000 entities. Since the 15th century, with few exceptions, the Empire's Prince-electors had chosen successive heads of the House of Habsburg to hold the title of Holy Roman Emperor. Among the German-speaking states, the Holy Roman Empire administrative and legal mechanisms provided a venue to resolve disputes between peasants and landlords, between jurisdictions, and within jurisdictions. Through the organization of imperial circles (\"Reichskreise\"), groups of states consolidated resources and promoted regional and organizational interests, including economic cooperation and military protection.\n\nThe War of the Second Coalition (1799–1802) resulted in the defeat of the imperial and allied forces by Napoleon Bonaparte. The treaties of Lunéville (1801) and the Mediatization of 1803 secularized the ecclesiastical principalities and abolished most free imperial cities and these territories along with their inhabitants were absorbed by dynastic states. This transfer particularly enhanced the territories of Württemberg and Baden. In 1806, after a successful invasion of Prussia and the defeat of Prussia and Russia at the joint battles of Jena-Auerstedt, Napoleon dictated the Treaty of Pressburg and presided over the creation of the Confederation of the Rhine, which, \"inter alia\", provided for the mediatization of over a hundred petty princes and counts and the absorption of their territories, as well as those of hundreds of imperial knights, by the Confederation's member-states. Following the formal secession of these member-states from the Empire, the Emperor dissolved the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nUnder the hegemony of the French Empire (1804–1814), popular German nationalism thrived in the reorganized German states. Due in part to the shared experience, albeit under French dominance, various justifications emerged to identify \"Germany\" as a single state. For the German philosopher Johann Gottlieb Fichte,\nThe first, original, and truly natural boundaries of states are beyond doubt their internal boundaries. Those who speak the same language are joined to each other by a multitude of invisible bonds by nature herself, long before any human art begins; they understand each other and have the power of continuing to make themselves understood more and more clearly; they belong together and are by nature one and an inseparable whole.\n\nA common language may have been seen to serve as the basis of a nation, but as contemporary historians of 19th-century Germany noted, it took more than linguistic similarity to unify these several hundred polities. The experience of German-speaking Central Europe during the years of French hegemony contributed to a sense of common cause to remove the French invaders and reassert control over their own lands. The exigencies of Napoleon's campaigns in Poland (1806–07), the Iberian Peninsula, western Germany, and his disastrous invasion of Russia in 1812 disillusioned many Germans, princes and peasants alike. Napoleon's Continental System nearly ruined the Central European economy. The invasion of Russia included nearly 125,000 troops from German lands, and the loss of that army encouraged many Germans, both high- and low-born, to envision a Central Europe free of Napoleon's influence. The creation of student militias such as the Lützow Free Corps exemplified this tendency.\n\nThe debacle in Russia loosened the French grip on the German princes. In 1813, Napoleon mounted a campaign in the German states to bring them back into the French orbit; the subsequent War of Liberation culminated in the great Battle of Leipzig, also known as the Battle of Nations. In October 1813, more than 500,000 combatants engaged in ferocious fighting over three days, making it the largest European land battle of the 19th century. The engagement resulted in a decisive victory for the Coalition of Austria, Prussia, Russia, Saxony, and Sweden, and it ended French power east of the Rhine. Success encouraged the Coalition forces to pursue Napoleon across the Rhine; his army and his government collapsed, and the victorious Coalition incarcerated Napoleon on Elba. During the brief Napoleonic restoration known as the 100 Days of 1815, forces of the Seventh Coalition, including an Anglo-Allied army under the command of the Duke of Wellington and a Prussian army under the command of Gebhard von Blücher, were victorious at Waterloo (18 June 1815). The critical role played by Blücher's troops, especially after having to retreat from the field at Ligny the day before, helped to turn the tide of combat against the French. The Prussian cavalry pursued the defeated French in the evening of 18 June, sealing the allied victory. From the German perspective, the actions of Blücher's troops at Waterloo, and the combined efforts at Leipzig, offered a rallying point of pride and enthusiasm. This interpretation became a key building block of the \"Borussian\" myth expounded by the pro-Prussian nationalist historians later in the 19th century.\n\nAfter Napoleon's defeat, the Congress of Vienna established a new European political-diplomatic system based on the balance of power. This system reorganized Europe into spheres of influence, which, in some cases, suppressed the aspirations of the various nationalities, including the Germans and Italians. Generally, an enlarged Prussia and the 38 other states consolidated from the mediatized territories of 1803 were confederated within the Austrian Empire's sphere of influence. The Congress established a loose German Confederation (1815–1866), headed by Austria, with a \"Federal Diet\" (called the \"Bundestag\" or \"Bundesversammlung\", an assembly of appointed leaders) that met in the city of Frankfurt am Main. In recognition of the imperial position traditionally held by the Habsburgs, the emperors of Austria became the titular presidents of this parliament. Problematically, the built-in Austrian dominance failed to take into account Prussia's 18th century emergence in Imperial politics. Ever since the Prince-Elector of Brandenburg had made himself King in Prussia at the beginning of that century, their domains had steadily increased through war and inheritance. Prussia's consolidated strength had become especially apparent during the War of the Austrian Succession and the Seven Years' War under Frederick the Great. As Maria Theresa and Joseph tried to restore Habsburg hegemony in the Holy Roman Empire, Frederick countered with the creation of the \"Fürstenbund\" (Union of Princes) in 1785. Austrian-Prussian dualism lay firmly rooted in old Imperial politics. Those balance of power manoeuvers were epitomized by the War of the Bavarian Succession, or \"Potato War\" among common folk. Even after the end of the Holy Roman Empire, this competition influenced the growth and development of nationalist movements in the 19th century.\n\nDespite the nomenclature of \"Diet\" (Assembly or Parliament), this institution should in no way be construed as a broadly, or popularly, elected group of representatives. Many of the states did not have constitutions, and those that did, such as the Duchy of Baden, based suffrage on strict property requirements which effectively limited suffrage to a small portion of the male population. Furthermore, this impractical solution did not reflect the new status of Prussia in the overall scheme. Although the Prussian army had been dramatically defeated in the 1806 Battle of Jena-Auerstedt, it had made a spectacular comeback at Waterloo. Consequently, Prussian leaders expected to play a pivotal role in German politics.\n\nThe surge of German nationalism, stimulated by the experience of Germans in the Napoleonic period and initially allied with liberalism, shifted political, social, and cultural relationships within the German states. In this context, one can detect its roots in the experience of Germans in the Napoleonic period. The \"Burschenschaft\" student organizations and popular demonstrations, such as those held at Wartburg Castle in October 1817, contributed to a growing sense of unity among German speakers of Central Europe. Furthermore, implicit and sometimes explicit promises made during the German Campaign of 1813 engendered an expectation of popular sovereignty and widespread participation in the political process, promises that largely went unfulfilled once peace had been achieved. Agitation by student organizations led such conservative leaders as Klemens Wenzel, Prince von Metternich, to fear the rise of national sentiment; the assassination of German dramatist August von Kotzebue in March 1819 by a radical student seeking unification was followed on 20 September 1819 by the proclamation of the Carlsbad Decrees, which hampered intellectual leadership of the nationalist movement.\n\nMetternich was able to harness conservative outrage at the assassination to consolidate legislation that would further limit the press and constrain the rising liberal and nationalist movements. Consequently, these decrees drove the \"Burschenschaften\" underground, restricted the publication of nationalist materials, expanded censorship of the press and private correspondence, and limited academic speech by prohibiting university professors from encouraging nationalist discussion. The decrees were the subject of Johann Joseph von Görres's pamphlet \"Teutschland [archaic: Deutschland] und die Revolution\" (\"Germany and the Revolution\") (1820), in which he concluded that it was both impossible and undesirable to repress the free utterance of public opinion by reactionary measures.\n\nAnother institution key to unifying the German states, the \"Zollverein\", helped to create a larger sense of economic unification. Initially conceived by the Prussian Finance Minister Hans, Count von Bülow, as a Prussian customs union in 1818, the \"Zollverein\" linked the many Prussian and Hohenzollern territories. Over the ensuing thirty years (and more) other German states joined. The Union helped to reduce protectionist barriers between the German states, especially improving the transport of raw materials and finished goods, making it both easier to move goods across territorial borders and less costly to buy, transport, and sell raw materials. This was particularly important for the emerging industrial centers, most of which were located in the Prussian regions of the Rhineland, the Saar, and the Ruhr valleys. States more distant from the coast joined the Customs Union earlier. Not being a member mattered more for the states of south Germany, since the external tariff of the Customs Union prevented customs-free access to the coast (which gave access to international markets). Thus, by 1836, all states to the south of Prussia had joined the Customs Union, except Austria.\n\nIn contrast, the coastal states already had barrier free access to international trade and did not want consumers and producers burdened with the import duties they would pay if they were within the Zollverein customs border. Hanover on the north coast formed its own customs union - the “Tax Union” or Steuerverein - in 1834 with Brunswick and with Oldenburg in 1836. The external tariffs on finished goods and overseas raw materials were below the rates of the Zollverein. Brunswick joined the Zollverein Customs Union in 1842, while Hanover and Oldenburg finally joined in 1854 After the Austro-Prussian war of 1866, Schleswig, Holstein and Lauenburg were annexed by Prussia and thus annexed also to the Customs Union, while the two Mecklenburg states and the city states of Hamburg and Bremen joined late because they were reliant on international trade. The Mecklenburgs joined in 1867, while Bremen and Hamburg joined in 1888.\n\nBy the early 19th century, German roads had deteriorated to an appalling extent. Travelers, both foreign and local, complained bitterly about the state of the \"Heerstraßen\", the military roads previously maintained for the ease of moving troops. As German states ceased to be a military crossroads, however, the roads improved; the length of hard–surfaced roads in Prussia increased from in 1816 to in 1852, helped in part by the invention of macadam. By 1835, Heinrich von Gagern wrote that roads were the \"veins and arteries of the body politic...\" and predicted that they would promote freedom, independence and prosperity. As people moved around, they came into contact with others, on trains, at hotels, in restaurants, and for some, at fashionable resorts such as the spa in Baden-Baden. Water transportation also improved. The blockades on the Rhine had been removed by Napoleon's orders, but by the 1820s, steam engines freed riverboats from the cumbersome system of men and animals that towed them upstream. By 1846, 180 steamers plied German rivers and Lake Constance, and a network of canals extended from the Danube, the Weser, and the Elbe rivers.\n\nAs important as these improvements were, they could not compete with the impact of the railway. German economist Friedrich List called the railways and the Customs Union \"Siamese Twins\", emphasizing their important relationship to one another. He was not alone: the poet August Heinrich Hoffmann von Fallersleben wrote a poem in which he extolled the virtues of the \"Zollverein\", which he began with a list of commodities that had contributed more to German unity than politics or diplomacy. Historians of the Second Empire later regarded the railways as the first indicator of a unified state; the patriotic novelist, Wilhelm Raabe, wrote: \"The German empire was founded with the construction of the first railway...\" Not everyone greeted the \"iron monster\" with enthusiasm. The Prussian king Frederick William III saw no advantage in traveling from Berlin to Potsdam a few hours faster, and Metternich refused to ride in one at all. Others wondered if the railways were an \"evil\" that threatened the landscape: Nikolaus Lenau's 1838 poem \"An den Frühling\" (\"To Spring\") bemoaned the way trains destroyed the pristine quietude of German forests.\n\nThe Bavarian Ludwig Railway, which was the first passenger or freight rail line in the German lands, connected Nuremberg and Fürth in 1835. Although it was long and only operated in daylight, it proved both profitable and popular. Within three years, of track had been laid, by 1840, , and by 1860, . Lacking a geographically central organizing feature (such as a national capital), the rails were laid in webs, linking towns and markets within regions, regions within larger regions, and so on. As the rail network expanded, it became cheaper to transport goods: in 1840, 18 \"Pfennigs\" per ton per kilometer and in 1870, five \"Pfennigs\". The effects of the railway were immediate. For example, raw materials could travel up and down the Ruhr Valley without having to unload and reload. Railway lines encouraged economic activity by creating demand for commodities and by facilitating commerce. In 1850, inland shipping carried three times more freight than railroads; by 1870, the situation was reversed, and railroads carried four times more. Rail travel changed how cities looked and how people traveled. Its impact reached throughout the social order, affecting the highest born to the lowest. Although some of the outlying German provinces were not serviced by rail until the 1890s, the majority of the population, manufacturing centers, and production centers were linked to the rail network by 1865.\n\nAs travel became easier, faster, and less expensive, Germans started to see unity in factors \"other\" than their language. The Brothers Grimm, who compiled a massive dictionary known as \"The Grimm\", also assembled a compendium of folk tales and fables, which highlighted the story-telling parallels between different regions. Karl Baedeker wrote guidebooks to different cities and regions of Central Europe, indicating places to stay, sites to visit, and giving a short history of castles, battlefields, famous buildings, and famous people. His guides also included distances, roads to avoid, and hiking paths to follow.\n\nThe words of August Heinrich Hoffmann von Fallersleben expressed not only the linguistic unity of the German people but also their geographic unity. In \"Deutschland, Deutschland über Alles\", officially called \"Das Lied der Deutschen\" (\"The Song of the Germans\"), Fallersleben called upon sovereigns throughout the German states to recognize the unifying characteristics of the German people. Such other patriotic songs as \"Die Wacht am Rhein\" (\"The Watch on the Rhine\") by Max Schneckenburger began to focus attention on geographic space, not limiting \"Germanness\" to a common language. Schneckenburger wrote \"The Watch on the Rhine\" in a specific patriotic response to French assertions that the Rhine was France's \"natural\" eastern boundary. In the refrain, \"Dear fatherland, dear fatherland, put your mind to rest / The watch stands true on the Rhine\", and in such other patriotic poetry as Nicholaus Becker's \"Das Rheinlied\" (\"The Rhine\"), Germans were called upon to defend their territorial homeland. In 1807, Alexander von Humboldt argued that national character reflected geographic influence, linking landscape to people. Concurrent with this idea, movements to preserve old fortresses and historic sites emerged, and these particularly focused on the Rhineland, the site of so many confrontations with France and Spain.\n\nThe period of Austrian and Prussian police-states and vast censorship before the Revolutions of 1848 in Germany later became widely known as the \"Vormärz\", the \"before March\", referring to March 1848. During this period, European liberalism gained momentum; the agenda included economic, social, and political issues. Most European liberals in the \"Vormärz\" sought unification under nationalist principles, promoted the transition to capitalism, sought the expansion of male suffrage, among other issues. Their \"radicalness\" depended upon where they stood on the spectrum of male suffrage: the wider the definition of suffrage, the more radical.\n\nDespite considerable conservative reaction, ideas of unity joined with notions of popular sovereignty in German-speaking lands. The Hambach Festival (\"Hambacher Fest\") in May 1832 was attended by a crowd of more than 30,000. Promoted as a county fair, its participants celebrated fraternity, liberty, and national unity. Celebrants gathered in the town below and marched to the ruins of Hambach Castle on the heights above the small town of Hambach, in the Palatinate province of Bavaria. Carrying flags, beating drums, and singing, the participants took the better part of the morning and mid-day to arrive at the castle grounds, where they listened to speeches by nationalist orators from across the conservative to radical political spectrum. The overall content of the speeches suggested a fundamental difference between the German nationalism of the 1830s and the French nationalism of the July Revolution: the focus of German nationalism lay in the education of the people; once the populace was educated as to what was needed, they would accomplish it. The Hambach rhetoric emphasized the overall peaceable nature of German nationalism: the point was not to build barricades, a very \"French\" form of nationalism, but to build emotional bridges between groups.\n\nAs he had done in 1819, after the Kotzebue assassination, Metternich used the popular demonstration at Hambach to push conservative social policy. The \"Six Articles\" of 28 June 1832 primarily reaffirmed the principle of monarchical authority. On 5 July, the Frankfurt Diet voted for an additional 10 articles, which reiterated existing rules on censorship, restricted political organizations, and limited other public activity. Furthermore, the member states agreed to send military assistance to any government threatened by unrest. Prince Wrede led half of the Bavarian army to the Palatinate to \"subdue\" the province. Several hapless Hambach speakers were arrested, tried and imprisoned; one, Karl Heinrich Brüggemann (1810–1887), a law student and representative of the secretive \"Burschenschaft\", was sent to Prussia, where he was first condemned to death, but later pardoned.\n\nSeveral other factors complicated the rise of nationalism in the German states. The man-made factors included political rivalries between members of the German confederation, particularly between the Austrians and the Prussians, and socio-economic competition among the commercial and merchant interests and the old land-owning and aristocratic interests. Natural factors included widespread drought in the early 1830s, and again in the 1840s, and a food crisis in the 1840s. Further complications emerged as a result of a shift in industrialization and manufacturing; as people sought jobs, they left their villages and small towns to work during the week in the cities, returning for a day and a half on weekends.\n\nThe economic, social and cultural dislocation of ordinary people, the economic hardship of an economy in transition, and the pressures of meteorological disasters all contributed to growing problems in Central Europe. The failure of most of the governments to deal with the food crisis of the mid-1840s, caused by the potato blight (related to the Great Irish Famine) and several seasons of bad weather, encouraged many to think that the rich and powerful had no interest in their problems. Those in authority were concerned about the growing unrest, political and social agitation among the working classes, and the disaffection of the intelligentsia. No amount of censorship, fines, imprisonment, or banishment, it seemed, could stem the criticism. Furthermore, it was becoming increasingly clear that both Austria and Prussia wanted to be the leaders in any resulting unification; each would inhibit the drive of the other to achieve unification.\n\nCrucially, both the Wartburg rally in 1817 and the Hambach Festival in 1832 had lacked any clear-cut program of unification. At Hambach, the positions of the many speakers illustrated their disparate agendas. Held together only by the idea of unification, their notions of how to achieve this did not include specific plans but instead rested on the nebulous idea that the \"Volk\" (the people), if properly educated, would bring about unification on their own. Grand speeches, flags, exuberant students, and picnic lunches did not translate into a new political, bureaucratic, or administrative apparatus. While many spoke about the need for a constitution, no such document appeared from the discussions. In 1848, nationalists sought to remedy that problem.\n\nThe widespread—mainly German—revolutions of 1848–49 sought unification of Germany under a single constitution. The revolutionaries pressured various state governments, particularly those in the Rhineland, for a parliamentary assembly that would have the responsibility to draft a constitution. Ultimately, many of the left-wing revolutionaries hoped this constitution would establish universal male suffrage, a permanent national parliament, and a unified Germany, possibly under the leadership of the Prussian king. This seemed to be the most logical course since Prussia was the strongest of the German states, as well as the largest in geographic size. Generally, center-right revolutionaries sought some kind of expanded suffrage within their states and potentially, a form of loose unification. Their pressure resulted in a variety of elections, based on different voting qualifications, such as the Prussian three-class franchise, which granted to some electoral groups—chiefly the wealthier, landed ones—greater representative power.\n\nOn 27 March 1849, the Frankfurt Parliament passed the \"Paulskirchenverfassung\" (Constitution of St. Paul's Church) and offered the title of \"Kaiser\" (Emperor) to the Prussian king Frederick William IV the next month. He refused for a variety of reasons. Publicly, he replied that he could not accept a crown without the consent of the actual states, by which he meant the princes. Privately, he feared opposition from the other German princes and military intervention from Austria or Russia. He also held a fundamental distaste for the idea of accepting a crown from a popularly elected parliament: he would not accept a crown of \"clay\". Despite franchise requirements that often perpetuated many of the problems of sovereignty and political participation liberals sought to overcome, the Frankfurt Parliament did manage to draft a constitution and reach an agreement on the \"kleindeutsch\" solution. While the liberals failed to achieve the unification they sought, they did manage to gain a partial victory by working with the German princes on many constitutional issues and collaborating with them on reforms.\n\nScholars of German history have engaged in decades of debate over how the successes and failures of the Frankfurt Parliament contribute to the historiographical explanations of German nation building. One school of thought, which emerged after The Great War and gained momentum in the aftermath of World War II, maintains that the failure of German liberals in the Frankfurt Parliament led to bourgeoisie compromise with conservatives (especially the conservative Junker landholders), which subsequently led to the so-called \"Sonderweg\" (distinctive path) of 20th-century German history. Failure to achieve unification in 1848, this argument holds, resulted in the late formation of the nation-state in 1871, which in turn delayed the development of positive national values. Hitler often called on the German public to sacrifice all for the cause of their great nation, but his regime did not create German nationalism: it merely capitalized on an intrinsic cultural value of German society that still remains prevalent even to this day. Furthermore, this argument maintains, the \"failure\" of 1848 reaffirmed latent aristocratic longings among the German middle class; consequently, this group never developed a self-conscious program of modernization.\n\nMore recent scholarship has rejected this idea, claiming that Germany did not have an actual \"distinctive path\" any more than any other nation, a historiographic idea known as exceptionalism. Instead, modern historians claim 1848 saw specific achievements by the liberal politicians. Many of their ideas and programs were later incorporated into Bismarck's social programs (e.g., social insurance, education programs, and wider definitions of suffrage). In addition, the notion of a distinctive path relies upon the underlying assumption that some other nation's path (in this case, the United Kingdom's) is the accepted norm. This new argument further challenges the norms of the British-centric model of development: studies of national development in Britain and other \"normal\" states (e.g., France or the United States) have suggested that even in these cases, the modern nation-state did not develop evenly. Nor did it develop particularly early, being rather a largely mid-to-late-19th-century phenomenon. Since the end of the 1990s, this view has become widely accepted, although some historians still find the \"Sonderweg\" analysis helpful in understanding the period of National Socialism.\n\nAfter the Frankfurt Parliament disbanded, Frederick William IV, under the influence of General Joseph Maria von Radowitz, supported the establishment of the Erfurt Union—a federation of German states, excluding Austria—by the free agreement of the German princes. This limited union under Prussia would have almost entirely eliminated Austrian influence on the other German states. Combined diplomatic pressure from Austria and Russia (a guarantor of the 1815 agreements that established European spheres of influence) forced Prussia to relinquish the idea of the Erfurt Union at a meeting in the small town of Olmütz in Moravia. In November 1850, the Prussians—specifically Radowitz and Frederick William—agreed to the restoration of the German Confederation under Austrian leadership. This became known as the Punctation of Olmütz, but among Prussians it was known as the \"Humiliation of Olmütz.\"\n\nAlthough seemingly minor events, the Erfurt Union proposal and the Punctation of Olmütz brought the problems of influence in the German states into sharp focus. The question became not a matter of \"if\" but rather \"when\" unification would occur, and \"when\" was contingent upon strength. One of the former Frankfurt Parliament members, Johann Gustav Droysen, summed up the problem:\nWe cannot conceal the fact that the whole German question is a simple alternative between Prussia and Austria. In these states, German life has its positive and negative poles—in the former, all the interests [that] are national and reformative, in the latter, all that are dynastic and destructive. The German question is not a constitutional question but a question of power; and the Prussian monarchy is now wholly German, while that of Austria cannot be.\nUnification under these conditions raised a basic diplomatic problem. The possibility of German (or Italian) unification would overturn the overlapping spheres of influence system created in 1815 at the Congress of Vienna. The principal architects of this convention, Metternich, Castlereagh, and Tsar Alexander (with his foreign secretary Count Karl Nesselrode), had conceived of and organized a Europe balanced and guaranteed by four \"great powers\": Great Britain, France, Russia, and Austria, with each power having a geographic sphere of influence. France's sphere included the Iberian Peninsula and a share of influence in the Italian states. Russia's included the eastern regions of Central Europe and a balancing influence in the Balkans. Austria's sphere expanded throughout much of the Central European territories formerly held by the Holy Roman Empire. Britain's sphere was the rest of the world, especially the seas.\n\nThis sphere of influence system depended upon the fragmentation of the German and Italian states, not their consolidation. Consequently, a German nation united under one banner presented significant questions. There was no readily applicable definition for who the German people would be or how far the borders of a German nation would stretch. There was also uncertainty as to who would best lead and defend \"Germany\", however it was defined. Different groups offered different solutions to this problem. In the \"Kleindeutschland\" (\"Lesser Germany\") solution, the German states would be united under the leadership of the Prussian Hohenzollerns; in the \"Grossdeutschland\" (\"Greater Germany\") solution, the German states would be united under the leadership of the Austrian Habsburgs. This controversy, the latest phase of the German dualism debate that had dominated the politics of the German states and Austro-Prussian diplomacy since the 1701 creation of the Kingdom of Prussia, would come to a head during the following twenty years.\n\nOther nationalists had high hopes for the German unification movement, and the frustration with lasting German unification after 1850 seemed to set the national movement back. Revolutionaries associated national unification with progress. As Giuseppe Garibaldi wrote to German revolutionary Karl Blind on 10 April 1865, \"The progress of humanity seems to have come to a halt, and you with your superior intelligence will know why. The reason is that the world lacks a nation [that] possesses true leadership. Such leadership, of course, is required not to dominate other peoples but to lead them along the path of duty, to lead them toward the brotherhood of nations where all the barriers erected by egoism will be destroyed.\" Garibaldi looked to Germany for the \"kind of leadership [that], in the true tradition of medieval chivalry, would devote itself to redressing wrongs, supporting the weak, sacrificing momentary gains and material advantage for the much finer and more satisfying achievement of relieving the suffering of our fellow men. We need a nation courageous enough to give us a lead in this direction. It would rally to its cause all those who are suffering wrong or who aspire to a better life and all those who are now enduring foreign oppression.\"\n\nGerman unification had also been viewed as a prerequisite for the creation of a European federation, which Giuseppe Mazzini and other European patriots had been promoting for more than three decades:\nIn the spring of 1834, while at Berne, Mazzini and a dozen refugees from Italy, Poland and Germany founded a new association with the grandiose name of Young Europe. Its basic, and equally grandiose idea, was that, as the French Revolution of 1789 had enlarged the concept of individual liberty, another revolution would now be needed for national liberty; and his vision went further because he hoped that in the no doubt distant future free nations might combine to form a loosely federal Europe with some kind of federal assembly to regulate their common interests. [...] His intention was nothing less than to overturn the European settlement agreed [to] in 1815 by the Congress of Vienna, which had reestablished an oppressive hegemony of a few great powers and blocked the emergence of smaller nations. [...] Mazzini hoped, but without much confidence, that his vision of a league or society of independent nations would be realized in his own lifetime. In practice Young Europe lacked the money and popular support for more than a short-term existence. Nevertheless he always remained faithful to the ideal of a united continent for which the creation of individual nations would be an indispensable preliminary.\n\nKing Frederick William IV suffered a stroke in 1857 and could no longer rule. This led to his brother William becoming Prince Regent of the Kingdom of Prussia in 1858. Meanwhile, Helmuth von Moltke had become chief of the Prussian General Staff in 1857, and Albrecht von Roon would become Prussian Minister of War in 1859. This shuffling of authority within the Prussian military establishment would have important consequences. Von Roon and William (who took an active interest in military structures) began reorganizing the Prussian army, while Moltke redesigned the strategic defense of Prussia by streamlining operational command. Prussian army reforms (especially how to pay for them) caused a constitutional crisis beginning in 1860 because both parliament and William—via his minister of war—wanted control over the military budget. William, crowned King Wilhelm I in 1861, appointed Otto von Bismarck to the position of Minister-President of Prussia in 1862. Bismarck resolved the crisis in favor of the war minister.\n\nThe Crimean War of 1854–55 and the Italian War of 1859 disrupted relations among Great Britain, France, Austria, and Russia. In the aftermath of this disarray, the convergence of von Moltke's operational redesign, von Roon and Wilhelm's army restructure, and Bismarck's diplomacy influenced the realignment of the European balance of power. Their combined agendas established Prussia as the leading German power through a combination of foreign diplomatic triumphs—backed up by the possible use of Prussian military might—and an internal conservativism tempered by pragmatism, which came to be known as \"Realpolitik\".\n\nBismarck expressed the essence of \"Realpolitik\" in his subsequently famous \"Blood and Iron\" speech to the Budget Committee of the Prussian Chamber of Deputies on 30 September 1862, shortly after he became Minister President: \"The great questions of the time will not be resolved by speeches and majority decisions—that was the great mistake of 1848 and 1849—but by iron and blood.\" Bismarck's words, \"iron and blood\" (or \"blood and iron\", as often attributed), have often been misappropriated as evidence of a German lust for blood and power. First, the phrase from his speech \"the great questions of time will not be resolved by speeches and majority decisions\" is often interpreted as a repudiation of the political process—a repudiation Bismarck did not himself advocate. Second, his emphasis on blood and iron did not imply simply the unrivaled military might of the Prussian army but rather two important aspects: the ability of the assorted German states to produce iron and other related war materials and the willingness to use those war materials if necessary.\n\n—article from \"The New York Times\" published in July 1, 1866\n\nBy 1862, when Bismarck made his speech, the idea of a German nation-state in the peaceful spirit of Pan-Germanism had shifted from the liberal and democratic character of 1848 to accommodate Bismarck's more conservative \"Realpolitik\". Bismarck sought to link a unified state to the Hohenzollern dynasty, which for some historians remains one of Bismarck's primary contributions to the creation of the German Empire in 1871. While the conditions of the treaties binding the various German states to one another prohibited Bismarck from taking unilateral action, the politician and diplomat in him realized the impracticality of this. To get the German states to unify, Bismarck needed a single, outside enemy that would declare war on one of the German states first, thus providing a \"casus belli\" to rally all Germans behind. This opportunity arose with the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870. Historians have long debated Bismarck's role in the events leading up to the war. The traditional view, promulgated in large part by late 19th and early 20th century pro-Prussian historians, maintains that Bismarck's intent was always German unification. Post-1945 historians, however, see more short-term opportunism and cynicism in Bismarck's manipulation of the circumstances to create a war, rather than a grand scheme to unify a nation-state. Regardless of motivation, by manipulating events of 1866 and 1870, Bismarck demonstrated the political and diplomatic skill that had caused Wilhelm to turn to him in 1862.\n\nThree episodes proved fundamental to the unification of Germany. First, the death without male heirs of Frederick VII of Denmark led to the Second War of Schleswig in 1864. Second, the unification of Italy provided Prussia an ally against Austria in the Austro-Prussian War of 1866. Finally, France—fearing Hohenzollern encirclement—declared war on Prussia in 1870, resulting in the Franco-Prussian War. Through a combination of Bismarck's diplomacy and political leadership, von Roon's military reorganization, and von Moltke's military strategy, Prussia demonstrated that none of the European signatories of the 1815 peace treaty could guarantee Austria's sphere of influence in Central Europe, thus achieving Prussian hegemony in Germany and ending the dualism debate.\n\nThe first episode in the saga of German unification under Bismarck came with the Schleswig-Holstein Question. On 15 November 1863, King Christian IX of Denmark became king of Denmark and duke of Schleswig and Holstein. On 18 November 1863, he signed the Danish November Constitution and declared the Duchy of Schleswig a part of Denmark. The German Confederation saw this act as a violation of the London Protocol of 1852, which emphasized the status of the Kingdom of Denmark as distinct from the independent duchies of Schleswig and Holstein. The populations of Schleswig and Holstein, furthermore, valued their separate status. The German Confederation could use the ethnicities of these duchies as a rallying cry: large portions of both Schleswig and Holstein were of German origin and spoke German in everyday life (though Schleswig had a sizable Danish minority). Diplomatic attempts to have the November Constitution repealed collapsed, and fighting began when Prussian and Austrian troops crossed the border into Schleswig on 1 February 1864. Initially, the Danes attempted to defend their country using an ancient earthen wall known as the \"Danevirke\", but this proved futile. The Danes were no match for the combined Prussian and Austrian forces, and they could not rely on help from their allies in the other Scandinavian states because Denmark had nullified its alliance by violating the London Protocol. The Needle Gun, one of the first bolt action rifles to be used in conflict, aided the Prussians in both this war and the Austro-Prussian War two years later. The rifle enabled a Prussian soldier to fire five shots while lying prone, while its muzzle-loading counterpart could only fire one shot and had to be reloaded while standing. The Second Schleswig War resulted in victory for the combined armies of Prussia and Austria, and the two countries won control of Schleswig and Holstein in the concluding peace of Vienna, signed on 30 October 1864.\n\nThe second episode in Bismarck's unification efforts occurred in 1866. In concert with the newly formed Italy, Bismarck created a diplomatic environment in which Austria declared war on Prussia. The dramatic prelude to the war occurred largely in Frankfurt, where the two powers claimed to speak for all the German states in the parliament. In April 1866, the Prussian representative in Florence signed a secret agreement with the Italian government, committing each state to assist the other in a war against Austria. The next day, the Prussian delegate to the Frankfurt assembly presented a plan calling for a national constitution, a directly elected national Diet, and universal suffrage. German liberals were justifiably skeptical of this plan, having witnessed Bismarck's difficult and ambiguous relationship with the Prussian \"Landtag\" (State Parliament), a relationship characterized by Bismarck's cajoling and riding roughshod over the representatives. These skeptics saw the proposal as a ploy to enhance Prussian power rather than a progressive agenda of reform.\n\nThe debate over the proposed national constitution became moot when news of Italian troop movements in Tyrol and near the Venetian border reached Vienna in April 1866. The Austrian government ordered partial mobilization in the southern regions; the Italians responded by ordering full mobilization. Despite calls for rational thought and action, Italy, Prussia, and Austria continued to rush toward armed conflict. On 1 May, Wilhelm gave von Moltke command over the Prussian armed forces, and the next day he began full-scale mobilization.\n\nIn the Diet, the group of middle-sized states, known as \"Mittelstaaten\" (Bavaria, Württemberg, the grand duchies of Baden and Hesse, and the duchies of Saxony–Weimar, Saxony–Meiningen, Saxony–Coburg, and Nassau), supported complete demobilization within the Confederation. These individual governments rejected the potent combination of enticing promises and subtle (or outright) threats Bismarck used to try to gain their support against the Habsburgs. The Prussian war cabinet understood that its only supporters among the German states against the Habsburgs were two small principalities bordering on Brandenburg that had little military strength or political clout: the Grand Duchies of Mecklenburg-Schwerin and Mecklenburg-Strelitz. They also understood that Prussia's only ally abroad was Italy.\n\nOpposition to Prussia's strong-armed tactics surfaced in other social and political groups. Throughout the German states, city councils, liberal parliamentary members who favored a unified state, and chambers of commerce—which would see great benefits from unification—opposed any war between Prussia and Austria. They believed any such conflict would only serve the interests of royal dynasties. Their own interests, which they understood as \"civil\" or \"bourgeois\", seemed irrelevant. Public opinion also opposed Prussian domination. Catholic populations along the Rhine—especially in such cosmopolitan regions as Cologne and in the heavily populated Ruhr Valley—continued to support Austria. By late spring, most important states opposed Berlin's effort to reorganize the German states by force. The Prussian cabinet saw German unity as an issue of power and a question of who had the strength and will to wield that power. Meanwhile, the liberals in the Frankfurt assembly saw German unity as a process of negotiation that would lead to the distribution of power among the many parties.\n\nAlthough several German states initially sided with Austria, they stayed on the defensive and failed to take effective initiatives against Prussian troops. The Austrian army therefore faced the technologically superior Prussian army with support only from Saxony. France promised aid, but it came late and was insufficient. Complicating the situation for Austria, the Italian mobilization on Austria's southern border required a diversion of forces away from battle with Prussia to fight the Third Italian War of Independence on a second front in Venetia and on the Adriatic sea.\n\nIn the day-long Battle of Königgrätz, near the village of Sadová, the Crown Prince Friedrich Carl and his troops arrived late, and in the wrong place. Once he arrived, however, he ordered his troops immediately into the fray. The battle was a decisive victory for Prussia and forced the Habsburgs to end the war, laying the groundwork for the \"Kleindeutschland\" (little Germany) solution, or \"Germany without Austria.\"\n\nA quick peace was essential to keep Russia from entering the conflict on Austria's side. Prussia annexed Hanover, Hesse-Kassel, Nassau, and the city of Frankfurt. Hesse Darmstadt lost some territory but not its sovereignty. The states south of the Main River (Baden, Württemberg, and Bavaria) signed separate treaties requiring them to pay indemnities and to form alliances bringing them into Prussia's sphere of influence. Austria, and most of its allies, were excluded from the North German Confederation.\n\nThe end of Austrian dominance of the German states shifted Austria's attention to the Balkans. In 1867, the Austrian emperor Franz Joseph accepted a settlement (the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867) in which he gave his Hungarian holdings equal status with his Austrian domains, creating the Dual Monarchy of Austria-Hungary. The Peace of Prague (1866) offered lenient terms to Austria, in which Austria's relationship with the new nation-state of Italy underwent major restructuring; although the Austrians were far more successful in the military field against Italian troops, the monarchy lost the important province of Venetia. The Habsburgs ceded Venetia to France, which then formally transferred control to Italy. The French public resented the Prussian victory and demanded \"Revanche pour Sadová\" (\"Revenge for Sadova\"), illustrating anti-Prussian sentiment in France—a problem that would accelerate in the months leading up to the Franco-Prussian War. The Austro-Prussian War also damaged relations with the French government. At a meeting in Biarritz in September 1865 with Napoleon III, Bismarck had let it be understood (or Napoleon had thought he understood) that France might annex parts of Belgium and Luxembourg in exchange for its neutrality in the war. These annexations did not happen, resulting in animosity from Napoleon towards Bismarck.\n\nThe reality of defeat for Austria caused a reevaluation of internal divisions, local autonomy, and liberalism. The new North German Confederation had its own constitution, flag, and governmental and administrative structures. Through military victory, Prussia under Bismarck's influence had overcome Austria's active resistance to the idea of a unified Germany. Austria's influence over the German states may have been broken, but the war also splintered the spirit of pan-German unity: most of the German states resented Prussian power politics.\n\nBy 1870 three of the important lessons of the Austro-Prussian war had become apparent. The first lesson was that, through force of arms, a powerful state could challenge the old alliances and spheres of influence established in 1815. Second, through diplomatic maneuvering, a skillful leader could create an environment in which a rival state would declare war first, thus forcing states allied with the \"victim\" of external aggression to come to the leader's aid. Finally, as Prussian military capacity far exceeded that of Austria, Prussia was clearly the only state within the Confederation (or among the German states generally) capable of protecting all of them from potential interference or aggression. In 1866, most mid-sized German states had opposed Prussia, but by 1870 these states had been coerced and coaxed into mutually protective alliances with Prussia. In the event that a European state declared war on one of their members, they all would come to the defense of the attacked state. With skillful manipulation of European politics, Bismarck created a situation in which France would play the role of aggressor in German affairs, while Prussia would play that of the protector of German rights and liberties.\n\nAt the Congress of Vienna in 1815, Metternich and his conservative allies had reestablished the Spanish monarchy under King Ferdinand VII. Over the following forty years, the great powers supported the Spanish monarchy, but events in 1868 would further test the old system. A revolution in Spain overthrew Queen Isabella II, and the throne remained empty while Isabella lived in sumptuous exile in Paris. The Spanish, looking for a suitable Catholic successor, had offered the post to three European princes, each of whom was rejected by Napoleon III, who served as regional power-broker. Finally, in 1870 the Regency offered the crown to Leopold of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, a prince of the Catholic cadet Hohenzollern line. The ensuing furor has been dubbed by historians as the Hohenzollern candidature.\n\nOver the next few weeks, the Spanish offer turned into the talk of Europe. Bismarck encouraged Leopold to accept the offer. A successful installment of a Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen king in Spain would mean that two countries on either side of France would both have German kings of Hohenzollern descent. This may have been a pleasing prospect for Bismarck, but it was unacceptable to either Napoleon III or to Agenor, duc de Gramont, his minister of foreign affairs. Gramont wrote a sharply formulated ultimatum to Wilhelm, as head of the Hohenzollern family, stating that if any Hohenzollern prince should accept the crown of Spain, the French government would respond—although he left ambiguous the nature of such response. The prince withdrew as a candidate, thus defusing the crisis, but the French ambassador to Berlin would not let the issue lie. He approached the Prussian king directly while Wilhelm was vacationing in Ems Spa, demanding that the King release a statement saying he would never support the installation of a Hohenzollern on the throne of Spain. Wilhelm refused to give such an encompassing statement, and he sent Bismarck a dispatch by telegram describing the French demands. Bismarck used the king's telegram, called the Ems Dispatch, as a template for a short statement to the press. With its wording shortened and sharpened by Bismarck—and further alterations made in the course of its translation by the French agency Havas—the Ems Dispatch raised an angry furor in France. The French public, still aggravated over the defeat at Sadová, demanded war.\n\nNapoleon III had tried to secure territorial concessions from both sides before and after the Austro-Prussian War, but despite his role as mediator during the peace negotiations, he ended up with nothing. He then hoped that Austria would join in a war of revenge and that its former allies—particularly the southern German states of Baden, Württemberg, and Bavaria—would join in the cause. This hope would prove futile since the 1866 treaty came into effect and united all German states militarily—if not happily—to fight against France. Instead of a war of revenge against Prussia, supported by various German allies, France engaged in a war against all of the German states without any allies of its own. The reorganization of the military by von Roon and the operational strategy of Moltke combined against France to great effect. The speed of Prussian mobilization astonished the French, and the Prussian ability to concentrate power at specific points—reminiscent of Napoleon I's strategies seventy years earlier—overwhelmed French mobilization. Utilizing their efficiently laid rail grid, Prussian troops were delivered to battle areas rested and prepared to fight, whereas French troops had to march for considerable distances to reach combat zones. After a number of battles, notably Spicheren, Wörth, Mars la Tour, and Gravelotte, the Prussians defeated the main French armies and advanced on the primary city of Metz and the French capital of Paris. They captured Napoleon III and took an entire army as prisoners at Sedan on 1 September 1870.\n\nThe humiliating capture of the French emperor and the loss of the French army itself, which marched into captivity at a makeshift camp in the Saarland (\"Camp Misery\"), threw the French government into turmoil; Napoleon's energetic opponents overthrew his government and proclaimed the Third Republic. The German High Command expected an overture of peace from the French, but the new republic refused to surrender. The Prussian army invested Paris and held it under siege until mid-January, with the city being \"ineffectually bombarded\". On 18 January 1871, the German princes and senior military commanders proclaimed Wilhelm \"German Emperor\" in the Hall of Mirrors at the Palace of Versailles. Under the subsequent Treaty of Frankfurt, France relinquished most of its traditionally German regions (Alsace and the German-speaking part of Lorraine); paid an indemnity, calculated (on the basis of population) as the precise equivalent of the indemnity that Napoleon Bonaparte imposed on Prussia in 1807; and accepted German administration of Paris and most of northern France, with \"German troops to be withdrawn stage by stage with each installment of the indemnity payment\".\n\nVictory in the Franco-Prussian War proved the capstone of the nationalist issue. In the first half of the 1860s, Austria and Prussia both contended to speak for the German states; both maintained they could support German interests abroad and protect German interests at home. In responding to the Schleswig-Holstein Question, they both proved equally diligent in doing so. After the victory over Austria in 1866, Prussia began internally asserting its authority to speak for the German states and defend German interests, while Austria began directing more and more of its attention to possessions in the Balkans. The victory over France in 1871 expanded Prussian hegemony in the German states (aside from Austria) to the international level. With the proclamation of Wilhelm as \"Kaiser\", Prussia assumed the leadership of the new empire. The southern states became officially incorporated into a unified Germany at the Treaty of Versailles of 1871 (signed 26 February 1871; later ratified in the Treaty of Frankfurt of 10 May 1871), which formally ended the war. Although Bismarck had led the transformation of Germany from a loose confederation into a federal nation state, he had not done it alone. Unification was achieved by building on a tradition of legal collaboration under the Holy Roman Empire and economic collaboration through the \"Zollverein.\" The difficulties of the \"Vormärz\", the impact of the 1848 liberals, the importance of von Roon's military reorganization, and von Moltke's strategic brilliance all played a part in political unification.\n\nThe new German Empire included 25 states, three of them Hanseatic cities. It realized the \"Kleindeutsche Lösung\" (\"Lesser German Solution\", with the exclusion of Austria) as opposed to a \"Großdeutsche Lösung\" or \"Greater German Solution\", which would have included Austria. Unifying various states into one nation required more than some military victories, however much these might have boosted morale. It also required a rethinking of political, social, and cultural behaviors and the construction of new metaphors about \"us\" and \"them\". Who were the new members of this new nation? What did they stand for? How were they to be organized?\n\nThough often characterized as a federation of monarchs, the German Empire, strictly speaking, federated a group of 26 states.\n\nThe 1866 North German Constitution became (with some semantic adjustments) the 1871 Constitution of the German Empire. With this constitution, the new Germany acquired some democratic features: notably the Imperial Diet, which—in contrast to the parliament of Prussia—gave citizens representation on the basis of elections by direct and equal suffrage of all males who had reached the age of 25. Furthermore, elections were generally free of chicanery, engendering pride in the national parliament. However, legislation required the consent of the \"Bundesrat\", the federal council of deputies from the states, in and over which Prussia had a powerful influence; Prussia could appoint 17 of 58 delegates with only 14 votes needed for a veto. Prussia thus exercised influence in both bodies, with executive power vested in the Prussian King as \"Kaiser\", who appointed the federal chancellor. The chancellor was accountable solely to, and served entirely at the discretion of, the Emperor. Officially, the chancellor functioned as a one-man cabinet and was responsible for the conduct of all state affairs; in practice, the State Secretaries (bureaucratic top officials in charge of such fields as finance, war, foreign affairs, etc.) acted as unofficial portfolio ministers. With the exception of the years 1872–1873 and 1892–1894, the imperial chancellor was always simultaneously the prime minister of the imperial dynasty's hegemonic home-kingdom, Prussia. The Imperial Diet had the power to pass, amend, or reject bills, but it could not initiate legislation. (The power of initiating legislation rested with the chancellor.) The other states retained their own governments, but the military forces of the smaller states came under Prussian control. The militaries of the larger states (such as the Kingdoms of Bavaria and Saxony) retained some autonomy, but they underwent major reforms to coordinate with Prussian military principles and came under federal government control in wartime.\n\nThe \"Sonderweg\" hypothesis attributed Germany's difficult 20th century to the weak political, legal, and economic basis of the new empire. The Prussian landed elites, the \"Junkers\", retained a substantial share of political power in the unified state. The \"Sonderweg\" hypothesis attributed their power to the absence of a revolutionary breakthrough by the middle classes, or by peasants in combination with the urban workers, in 1848 and again in 1871. Recent research into the role of the Grand Bourgeoisie—which included bankers, merchants, industrialists, and entrepreneurs—in the construction of the new state has largely refuted the claim of political and economic dominance of the \"Junkers\" as a social group. This newer scholarship has demonstrated the importance of the merchant classes of the Hanseatic cities and the industrial leadership (the latter particularly important in the Rhineland) in the ongoing development of the Second Empire.\n\nAdditional studies of different groups in Wilhelmine Germany have all contributed to a new view of the period. Although the \"Junkers\" did, indeed, continue to control the officer corps, they did not dominate social, political, and economic matters as much as the \"Sonderweg\" theorists had hypothesized. Eastern \"Junker\" power had a counterweight in the western provinces in the form of the Grand Bourgeoisie and in the growing professional class of bureaucrats, teachers, professors, doctors, lawyers, scientists, etc.\n\nIf the Wartburg and Hambach rallies had lacked a constitution and administrative apparatus, that problem was addressed between 1867 and 1871. Yet, as Germans discovered, grand speeches, flags, and enthusiastic crowds, a constitution, a political reorganization, and the provision of an imperial superstructure; and the revised Customs Union of 1867–68, still did not make a nation.\n\nA key element of the nation-state is the creation of a national culture, frequently—although not necessarily—through deliberate national policy. In the new German nation, a \"Kulturkampf\" (1872–78) that followed political, economic, and administrative unification attempted to address, with a remarkable lack of success, some of the contradictions in German society. In particular, it involved a struggle over language, education, and religion. A policy of Germanization of non-German people of the empire's population, including the Polish and Danish minorities, started with language, in particular, the German language, compulsory schooling (Germanization), and the attempted creation of standardized curricula for those schools to promote and celebrate the idea of a shared past. Finally, it extended to the religion of the new Empire's population.\n\nFor some Germans, the definition of \"nation\" did not include pluralism, and Catholics in particular came under scrutiny; some Germans, and especially Bismarck, feared that the Catholics' connection to the papacy might make them less loyal to the nation. As chancellor, Bismarck tried without much success to limit the influence of the Roman Catholic Church and of its party-political arm, the Catholic Center Party, in schools and education and language-related policies. The Catholic Center Party remained particularly well entrenched in the Catholic strongholds of Bavaria and southern Baden, and in urban areas that held high populations of displaced rural workers seeking jobs in the heavy industry, and sought to protect the rights not only of Catholics, but other minorities, including the Poles, and the French minorities in the Alsatian lands. The May Laws of 1873 brought the appointment of priests, and their education, under the control of the state, resulting in the closure of many seminaries, and a shortage of priests. The Congregations Law of 1875 abolished religious orders, ended state subsidies to the Catholic Church, and removed religious protections from the Prussian constitution.\n\nThe Germanized Jews remained another vulnerable population in the new German nation-state. Since 1780, after emancipation by the Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II, Jews in the former Habsburg territories had enjoyed considerable economic and legal privileges that their counterparts in other German-speaking territories did not: they could own land, for example, and they did not have to live in a Jewish quarter (also called the \"Judengasse\", or \"Jews' alley\"). They could also attend universities and enter the professions. During the Revolutionary and Napoleonic eras, many of the previously strong barriers between Jews and Christians broke down. Napoleon had ordered the emancipation of Jews throughout territories under French hegemony. Like their French counterparts, wealthy German Jews sponsored salons; in particular, several Jewish \"salonnières\" held important gatherings in Frankfurt and Berlin during which German intellectuals developed their own form of republican intellectualism. Throughout the subsequent decades, beginning almost immediately after the defeat of the French, reaction against the mixing of Jews and Christians limited the intellectual impact of these salons. Beyond the salons, Jews continued a process of Germanization in which they intentionally adopted German modes of dress and speech, working to insert themselves into the emerging 19th-century German public sphere. The religious reform movement among German Jews reflected this effort.\n\nBy the years of unification, German Jews played an important role in the intellectual underpinnings of the German professional, intellectual, and social life. The expulsion of Jews from Russia in the 1880s and 1890s complicated integration into the German public sphere. Russian Jews arrived in north German cities in the thousands; considerably less educated and less affluent, their often dismal poverty dismayed many of the Germanized Jews. Many of the problems related to poverty (such as illness, overcrowded housing, unemployment, school absenteeism, refusal to learn German, etc.) emphasized their distinctiveness for not only the Christian Germans, but for the local Jewish populations as well.\n\nAnother important element in nation-building, the story of the heroic past, fell to such nationalist German historians as the liberal constitutionalist Friedrich Dahlmann (1785–1860), his conservative student Heinrich von Treitschke (1834–1896), and others less conservative, such as Theodor Mommsen (1817–1903) and Heinrich von Sybel (1817–1895), to name two. Dahlmann himself died before unification, but he laid the groundwork for the nationalist histories to come through his histories of the English and French revolutions, by casting these revolutions as fundamental to the construction of a nation, and Dahlmann himself viewed Prussia as the logical agent of unification.\n\nHeinrich von Treitschke's \"History of Germany in the Nineteenth Century\", published in 1879, has perhaps a misleading title: it privileges the history of Prussia over the history of other German states, and it tells the story of the German-speaking peoples through the guise of Prussia's destiny to unite all German states under its leadership. The creation of this \"Borussian\" myth (\"Borussia\" is the Latin name for Prussia) established Prussia as Germany's savior; it was the destiny of all Germans to be united, this myth maintains, and it was Prussia's destiny to accomplish this. According to this story, Prussia played the dominant role in bringing the German states together as a nation-state; only Prussia could protect German liberties from being crushed by French or Russian influence. The story continues by drawing on Prussia's role in saving Germans from the resurgence of Napoleon's power in 1815, at Waterloo, creating some semblance of economic unity, and uniting Germans under one proud flag after 1871.\n\nMommsen's contributions to the \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\" laid the groundwork for additional scholarship on the study of the German nation, expanding the notion of \"Germany\" to mean other areas beyond Prussia. A liberal professor, historian, and theologian, and generally a titan among late 19th-century scholars, Mommsen served as a delegate to the Prussian House of Representatives from 1863–1866 and 1873–1879; he also served as a delegate to the \"Reichstag\" from 1881–1884, for the liberal German Progress Party (\"Deutsche Fortschrittspartei\") and later for the National Liberal Party. He opposed the antisemitic programs of Bismarck's \"Kulturkampf\" and the vitriolic text that Treitschke often employed in the publication of his \"Studien über die Judenfrage\" (\"Studies of the Jewish Question\"), which encouraged assimilation and Germanization of Jews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3772752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3772752", "title": "Unitary urbanism", "text": "Unitary urbanism\n\nUnitary urbanism (UU) was the critique of \"status quo\" \"urbanism\", employed by the Letterist International and then further developed by the Situationist International between 1953 and 1960.\n\nThe praxis originates from the Lettrist technique of hypergraphics which was applied to architecture by the Lettrist International (LI). The UU critique of urbanism was further developed in the 1950s by the LI, and consists of a range of practices that include, but are not limited to:\n\nThe critical practice continued to be developed by the Situationists and others. It was largely abandoned for the Debordian theory of the spectacle after the Second Situationist International and Situationist Antinational were formed. London based evoL PsychogeogrAphix is one of the few groups openly practicing unitary urbanism today.\n\nUnitary urbanism was announced as a very specific praxis at the Alba platform between the Lettrist International and the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus. In his Address to the Alba Conference in September 1956, the Lettrist International Delegate Gil J Wolman said: \"A unitary urbanism—the synthesis of art and technology that we call for—must be constructed according to certain new values of life, values which now need to be distinguished and disseminated.\" This mode of urban practice was also called for in a tract distributed during a demonstration by Lettrists in Turin, Italy in December 1956.\n\nConstant Nieuwenhuys and Guy Debord disagreed about the praxis, issuing the designation \"the complex, ongoing activity which consciously recreates man's environment according to the most advanced conceptions in every domain,\" however the widening gulf between Nieuwenhuys' \"structural\" approach and Debord's focus on \"content\" eventually lead to Nieuwenhuy's split from the SI in 1960.\n\nUnitary urbanism, one of the major early Situationist concerns, stands on two tenets:\n\nIn the relative utopia of the UU ideal, the structural and artistic elements of human's metropolitan surroundings are blended into such grey area that one cannot identify where function ends and play begins. The resulting society, while it caters to fundamental needs, does so in an atmosphere of continual exploration, leisure, and stimulating ambience.\n\n\n\"'Whatever prestige the bourgeoisie may today be willing to grant to fragmentary or deliberately retrograde artistic tentatives, creation can now be nothing less than a synthesis aiming at the construction of entire atmospheres and styles of life. ... A unitary urbanism—the synthesis we call for, incorporating arts and technologies—must be created in accordance with new values of life, values which we now need to distinguish and disseminate.'\"<br>—George Williams, \"La plate-forme d’Alba\"; originally appeared in Potlatch: Information Bulletin of the Lettrist International #27 (Paris, 2 November 1956), quoting Gil J Wolman.\n\n"}
{"id": "22028808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22028808", "title": "United Farmers of British Columbia", "text": "United Farmers of British Columbia\n\nThe United Farmers of British Columbia was a union of farmers established in 1917. Unlike some of their sibling United Farmers organizations in other provinces, the United Farmers of British Columbia were never directly incorporated as a full political party in their own right, although two candidates stood under the United Farmers banner in the 1920 provincial election, and the United Farmers subsequently participated in the creation of the Provincial Party of British Columbia.\n"}
{"id": "35367125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35367125", "title": "Vice President of Yemen", "text": "Vice President of Yemen\n\nThe Vice President of the Republic of Yemen is the second highest political position in Yemen.\n\nUnder the Constitution of Yemen, the Vice President is appointed by the President, and acts as constitutional successor of the President in case of a vacancy. The Vice President assists the President in his duties. The President may delegate some of his functions to the Vice President.\n\nThe position of the Vice President of Yemen is currently occupied by Yemen Army general Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar since 4 April 2016, after being appointed by the President Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi.\n\nThis office was created in 1977.\n"}
{"id": "747573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=747573", "title": "Waterboarding", "text": "Waterboarding\n\nWaterboarding is a form of water torture in which water is poured over a cloth covering the face and breathing passages of an immobilized captive, causing the individual to experience the sensation of drowning. Ordinarily, the water is poured intermittently so as to prevent death during torture, however, if the water is poured uninterruptedly it will lead to death by asphyxia with the sensation of drowning, also called dry drowning. Besides death, waterboarding can cause extreme pain, damage to lungs, brain damage from oxygen deprivation, other physical injuries including broken bones due to struggling against restraints, and lasting psychological damage. Adverse physical consequences can manifest themselves months after the event, while psychological effects can last for years.\n\nIn the most common method of waterboarding, the captive's face is covered with cloth or some other thin material, and the subject is immobilized on their back at an incline of 10 to 20 degrees. Torturers pour water onto the face over the breathing passages, causing an almost immediate gag reflex and creating a drowning sensation for the captive.\nThe term \"water board torture\" appeared in press reports as early as 1976. In late 2007, it was widely reported that the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) was waterboarding extrajudicial prisoners and that the Office of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice, had authorized the procedure among enhanced interrogation techniques. The CIA confirmed having waterboarded three Al-Qaeda suspects: Abu Zubaydah, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, in 2002 and 2003.\n\nIn August 2002 and March 2003, in its war on terror, the George W. Bush administration, through Jay S. Bybee, the Office of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice, issued what became known as the Torture Memos after being leaked in 2004. These legal opinions (including the 2002 Bybee memo) argued for a narrow definition of torture under US law. The first three were addressed to the CIA, which took them as authority to use the described enhanced interrogation techniques (more generally classified as torture) on detainees classified as enemy combatants. Five days before the March 2003 invasion of Iraq, John Yoo, the acting Office of Legal Counsel, issued a fourth memo to the General Counsel of DOD, concluding his legal opinion by saying that federal laws related to torture and other abuse did not apply to interrogations overseas. The legal opinions were withdrawn by Jack Goldsmith of the OLC in June 2004 but reaffirmed by the succeeding head of the OLC in December 2004. US government officials at various times said they did not believe waterboarding to be a form of torture.\n\nIn 2006, the Bush administration banned torture including waterboarding on detainees, but only for the US Military, not the CIA. When an amendment by Senator Dianne Feinstein passed that restricted its use on the CIA, President Bush vetoed the bill. In January 2009, U.S. President Barack Obama issued a similar ban on the use of waterboarding and other forms of torture in interrogations of detainees. In April 2009, the U.S. Department of Defense refused to say whether waterboarding is still used for training (e.g., SERE) US military personnel in resistance to interrogation.\n\nIn December 2014, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence issued a declassified 500 page summary of its still classified 6,700 page report on the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Detention and Interrogation Program. The report concluded that \"the CIA's use of Enhanced Interrogation Techniques (EIT) was not effective for acquiring intelligence or gaining cooperation from detainees.\" According to the report, the CIA had presented no credible proof that information obtained through waterboarding or the other harsh interrogation methods that the CIA employed prevented any attacks or saved any lives. There was no evidence that information obtained from the detainees through EIT was not or could not have been obtained through conventional interrogation methods.\n\nIn June 2015, in response to a critical assessment of China in the U.S. State Department's annual human rights report, China noted that the U.S., among other alleged human rights abuses, engaged in torture of terrorism suspects, specifically by waterboarding.\n\nWhile the technique has been used in various forms for centuries, the term \"water board\" was recorded first in a 1976 UPI report: \"A Navy spokesman admitted use of the 'water board' torture ... to 'convince each trainee that he won't be able to physically resist what an enemy would do to him.'\" The verb-noun \"waterboarding\" dates from 2004. First appearance of the term in the mass media was in a \"New York Times\" article on 13 May 2004:\n\nU.S. attorney Alan Dershowitz is reported to have shortened the term to a single word in a \"Boston Globe\" article two days later: \"After all, the administration did approve rough interrogation methods for some high valued detainees. These included waterboarding, in which a detainee is pushed under water and made to believe he will drown unless he provides information, as well as sensory deprivation, painful stress positions, and simulated dog attacks\". Dershowitz later told the \"New York Times\" columnist William Safire that, \"when I first used the word, nobody knew what it meant.\"\n\nTechniques using forcible drowning to extract information had hitherto been referred to as \"water torture\", \"water treatment\", \"water cure\" or simply \"torture\".\n\nProfessor Darius Rejali of Reed College, author of \"Torture and Democracy\" (2007), speculates that the term waterboarding probably has its origin in the need for a euphemism. \nThere is a special vocabulary for torture. When people use tortures that are old, they rename them and alter them a wee bit. They invent slightly new words to mask the similarities. This creates an inside club, especially important in work where secrecy matters. Waterboarding is clearly a jailhouse joke. It refers to surfboarding\"– a word found as early as 1929– \"they are attaching somebody to a board and helping them surf. Torturers create names that are funny to them.\"\n\n\"Webster's Dictionary\" first included the term in 2009: \"[A]n interrogation technique in which water is forced into a detainee's mouth and nose so as to induce the sensation of drowning.\"\n\nWaterboarding was characterized in 2005 by former CIA director Porter J. Goss as a \"professional interrogation technique\". According to press accounts, a cloth or plastic wrap is placed over or in the person's mouth, and water is poured onto the person's head. Press accounts differ on the details of this technique – one article describes \"dripping water into a wet cloth over a suspect's face\", while another states that \"cellophane is wrapped over the prisoner's face and water is poured over him\".\nThe United States' Office of Legal Counsel in August 2002 responded to the request by the CIA for a legal opinion regarding the use of certain interrogation techniques. It included the following account of the CIA's definition of waterboarding in a Top Secret 2002 memorandum as follows:\n\nHistorically in the West, the technique is known to have been used in the Spanish Inquisition. The suffocation of bound prisoners with water has been favored because, unlike most other torture techniques, it produces no marks on the body. CIA officers who have subjected themselves to the technique have lasted an average of 14 seconds before capitulating. According to at least one former CIA official, information retrieved from the waterboarding may not be reliable because a person under such duress may admit to anything, as harsh interrogation techniques lead to false confessions. \"The person believes they are being killed, and as such, it really amounts to a mock execution, which is illegal under international law\", says John Sifton of Human Rights Watch. It is \"bad interrogation. I mean you can get anyone to confess to anything if the torture's bad enough\", said former CIA officer Bob Baer. There was considerable dissension within the Bush administration over the use of these techniques; both military investigators and the FBI opposed them.\n\nIn 2006 and 2007, Fox News and Current TV, respectively, demonstrated a waterboarding technique. In the videos, each correspondent is held against a board by the \"interrogators\".\n\nChristopher Hitchens voluntarily subjected himself to a filmed demonstration of waterboarding in 2008, an experience which he recounted in \"Vanity Fair\". He was bound on a horizontal board with a black mask over his face. A group of men said to be highly trained in this tactic, who demanded anonymity, carried out the torture. Hitchens was strapped to the board at the chest and feet, face up, and unable to move. Metal objects were placed in each of his hands, which he could drop if feeling \"unbearable stress\". The interrogator placed a towel over Hitchens' face, and poured water on it. After 16 seconds, Hitchens threw the metal objects to the floor and the torturers pulled the mask from his face, allowing him to breathe. In his article on the topic, he stated \"Well, then, if waterboarding does not constitute torture, then there is no such thing as torture.\" In 2016, conservative commentator Steven Crowder demonstrated waterboarding on his YouTube channel.\n\nAllen Keller, the director of the Bellevue Hospital/New York University Program for Survivors of Torture, has treated \"a number of people\" who had been subjected to forms of near-asphyxiation, including waterboarding. In an interview for \"The New Yorker\", he argued that \"it was indeed torture. 'Some victims were still traumatized years later', he said. One patient couldn't take showers, and panicked when it rained. 'The fear of being killed is a terrifying experience', he said\". Keller also gave a full description in 2007 in testimony before the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence on the practice:\n\nThe CIA's Office of Medical Services noted in a 2003 memo that \"for reasons of physical fatigue or psychological resignation, the subject may simply give up, allowing excessive filling of the airways and loss of consciousness\".\n\nIn an open letter in 2007 to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, Human Rights Watch asserted that waterboarding can cause the sort of \"severe pain\" prohibited by 18 USC 2340 (the implementation in the United States of the United Nations Convention Against Torture), that the psychological effects can last long after waterboarding ends (another of the criteria under 18 USC 2340), and that uninterrupted waterboarding can ultimately cause death.\n\nWaterboarding is considered to be torture by a wide range of authorities, including legal experts, politicians, war veterans, intelligence officials, military judges, and human rights organizations. David Miliband, then United Kingdom Foreign Secretary, described it as torture on 19 July 2008, and stated \"the UK unreservedly condemns the use of torture\". Arguments have been put forward that it might not be torture in all cases, or that it is unclear. The U.S. State Department has recognized \"submersion of the head in water\" as torture in other circumstances, for example, in its 2005 Country Report on Tunisia.\n\nThe United Nations' \"Report of the Committee Against Torture: Thirty-fifth Session\" of November 2006, stated that state parties should rescind any interrogation techniques, such as waterboarding, that constitutes torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment.\n\nWhether waterboarding should be classified as a method of torture was not widely debated in the United States before it was alleged, in 2004, that members of the CIA had used the technique against certain suspected detained terrorists.\n\nSubsequently, the U.S. government released a memorandum written in 2002 by the Office of Legal Counsel that came to the conclusion that waterboarding did not constitute torture and could be used to interrogate subjects. The OLC reasoned that \"in order for pain or suffering to rise to the level of torture, the statute requires that it be severe\" and that waterboarding did not cause severe pain or suffering either physically or mentally.\n\nFor over three years during the George W. Bush administration, the Justice Department's Office of Professional Responsibility conducted an investigation into the propriety of this and other memos by the Justice Department on waterboarding and other \"enhanced\" interrogation techniques. The OPR report findings were that former Deputy AAG John Yoo committed intentional professional misconduct and that former AAG Jay Bybee committed professional misconduct. These findings were dismissed in a memo from Associate Deputy Attorney General David Margolis who found that Yoo showed \"poor judgment\" but did not violate ethical standards. Commentators have noted that the memos omitted key relevant precedents, including a Texas precedent under then-Governor George W. Bush when the state convicted and sentenced to prison for 10 years a county sheriff for waterboarding a criminal suspect. Bush did not issue a pardon for the sheriff.\n\nFormer George W. Bush administration officials Dick Cheney and John Ashcroft have stated since leaving office that they do not consider waterboarding to be torture. At least one Republican member of the U.S. Congress, Ted Poe, has taken a similar position.\n\nOther Republican officials have provided less definitive views regarding whether waterboarding is torture. Andrew C. McCarthy, a former Republican prosecutor including in the George W. Bush administration, has stated that when used in \"some number of instances that were not prolonged or extensive\", waterboarding should not qualify as torture under the law. McCarthy has also stated that \"waterboarding is close enough to torture that reasonable minds can differ on whether it is torture\" and that \"[t]here shouldn't be much debate that subjecting someone to [waterboarding] repeatedly would cause the type of mental anguish required for torture\".\n\nMany former senior George W. Bush administration officials, on the other hand, have seriously questioned or directly challenged the legality of waterboarding. These include former State Department Counselor Philip Zelikow, former Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage, former Homeland Security Chief Tom Ridge, former head of the Office of Legal Counsel Jack Goldsmith, General Ricardo Sanchez, FBI Director Robert Mueller, and former Convening Authority for the Guantanamo military commissions Susan J. Crawford.\n\nDuring his tenure as head of the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel in 2003–2004, Jack Goldsmith put a halt to the use of waterboarding as an interrogation technique because of serious concern over its legality, but Goldsmith's order was quickly reversed by others within the George W. Bush administration.\n\nA Republican 2008 candidate for president, Senator John McCain who himself was tortured during his years as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam during the Vietnam War, has stated unequivocally several times that he considers waterboarding to be torture:\n\nProfessors such as Wilson R. Huhn have also challenged the legality of waterboarding.\n\nIn May 2008, author and journalist Christopher Hitchens voluntarily underwent waterboarding and concluded that it was torture. He also noted that he suffered ongoing psychological effects from the ordeal.\n\nOn 22 May 2009, radio talk show host Erich \"Mancow\" Muller subjected himself to waterboarding to prove that it is not torture, but changed his mind because of the experience.\n\nSean Hannity, another commentator who claims that waterboarding is not torture and has described those who oppose waterboarding as \"moral fools\", had declared on 22 April 2009 that he would similarly subject himself to waterboarding to prove that it is not torture. Hannity has yet to subject himself to the technique even though Keith Olbermann and Jesse Ventura have made public wagers regarding Hannity's inability to withstand the treatment.\n\nIn an 11 May 2009 interview with Larry King, Ventura stated:\n\nOn 15 January 2009, U.S. President-elect Barack Obama's nominee for Attorney General, Eric Holder, told his Senate confirmation hearing that waterboarding is torture and the President cannot authorize it. In a press conference on 30 April, President Obama also stated, \"I believe waterboarding was torture, and it was a mistake.\"\n\nIn covering the debate on the use of waterboarding as an interrogation technique by the U.S. government, U.S. reporters had to decide whether to use the term \"torture\" or \"enhanced interrogation techniques\" to describe waterboarding. National Public Radio's ombudsman detailed this debate and why NPR had decided to refrain from using the word torture to describe waterboarding. Due to criticism of the policy by the media and to NPR directly, a second piece was written to further explain their position and a desire to describe the technique rather than simply describe it as torture.\n\nExamining the four newspapers with the highest daily circulation in the country (\"The New York Times\", \"The Los Angeles Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"USA Today\") a student group of the Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy found that newspapers \"almost uniformly\" characterized waterboarding as torture from the 1930s until the September 11 attacks, at which point a \"significant and sudden shift\" occurred. Between 2002-2008, newspapers only seldom referred to waterboarding as torture. The group also noted the newspapers described waterboarding as torture far more frequently when it was performed by countries other than the United States.\n\nA form of torture similar to waterboarding is called \"toca\", and more recently \"Spanish water torture\", to differentiate it from the better known Chinese water torture, along with \"garrucha\" (or strappado) and the most frequently used \"potro\" (or the rack). This was used infrequently during the trial portion of the Spanish Inquisition process. \"The \"toca\", also called \"tortura del agua\", consisted of introducing a cloth into the mouth of the victim, and forcing them to ingest water spilled from a jar so that they had the impression of drowning\". William Schweiker claims that the use of water as a form of torture also had profound religious significance to the Inquisitors.\n\nIn general, waterboarding seemed to be very extended in the Spanish detention centers in the 1500s. Books from the time explain how to treat persons in custody, and used this \"light\" form of torture. After a specific way of beating, body, legs and arms, it was detailed how to pour 4 cuartillos (approx. 2.5 liters) of water over mouth and nose, with a covering cloth, making sure there was some cloth introduced in the mouth so water could also get in.\n\nIn Joos de Damhouder's \"Praxis rerum criminalium\" (1554), a manual on the practice of criminal law, the chapter on torture and interrogation is illustrated with a woodcut of waterboarding, which it describes in detail. The Martyr's Mirror depicts one incident of waterboarding used against the early Mennonites thus:\n\nAnd as they did still not obtain anything from me, to the implication of my neighbor, Master Hans took water (during the entire time a cloth had lain on my face), and holding my nose shut with one hand, began to pour water on my abdomen and thence all over my breast, and into my mouth; even as one should drink when he is very thirsty. I think that the can from which he poured out – the water held about three pints. And when I was at the end of my breath, and wanted to fetch such, I drew the water all into my body, whereupon I suffered such distress, that it would be impossible for me to relate or describe it; but the Lord be forever praised: He kept my lips. And when they could still not obtain anything from me, they caused the cord which was on my thigh to be loosed and applied to a fresh place, and wound it much tighter than before, so that I thought he would kill me, and began to shake and tremble greatly. He then proceeded to pour water into me again, so that I think he emptied four such cans, and my body became so full of it, that twice it came out again at the throat. And thus I became so weak. that I fainted; for, when I recovered from my swoon, I found myself alone with Master Hans and Daniel de Keyser. And Master Hans was so busily engaged in loosing all my cords, that it seemed to me that they were concerned over me. But the Lord in a large degree took away my pain every time; whenever it became so severe that I thought it was impossible to bear it, my members became as dead. Eternal praise, thanks, honor, and glory be to the Lord; for when it was over I thought that, by the help of the Lord, I had fought a good fight.\n\nAgents of the Dutch East India Company used a precursor to waterboarding during the Amboyna massacre of English prisoners, which took place on the island of Amboyna in the Molucca Islands in 1623. At that time, it consisted of wrapping cloth around the victim's head, after which the torturers \"poured the water softly upon his head until the cloth was full, up to the mouth and nostrils, and somewhat higher, so that he could not draw breath but he must suck in all the water\". In one case, the torturer applied water three or four times successively until the victim's \"body was swollen twice or thrice as big as before, his cheeks like great bladders, and his eyes staring and strutting out beyond his forehead\".\n\nAn editorial in \"The New York Times\" of 6 April 1852, and a subsequent 21 April 1852 letter to the editors documents an incidence of waterboarding, then called \"showering\" or \"hydropathic torture\", in New York's Sing Sing prison of an inmate named Henry Hagan, who, after several other forms of beating and mistreatment, had his head shaved, and \"certainly three, and possibly a dozen, barrels of water were poured upon his naked scalp\". Hagan was then placed in a yoke. A correspondent listed only as \"H\" later wrote: \"Perhaps it would be well to state more fully the true character of this 'hydropathic torture.' The stream of water is about one inch in diameter, and falls from a of seven or eight feet. The head of the patient is retained in its place by means of a board clasping the neck; the effect of which is, that the water, striking upon the board, rebounds into the mouth and nostrils of the victim, almost producing strangulation. Congestion, sometimes of the heart or lungs, sometimes of the brain, not ensues; and death, in due season, has released some sufferers from the further ordeal of the water cure. As the water is administered officially, I suppose that it is not murder!\" H. then went on to cite an 1847 New York law which limited prison discipline to individual confinement \"upon a short allowance.\"\n\nPrisoners in late 19th-century Alabama, and in Mississippi in the first third of the 20th century, also suffered waterboarding. In Alabama, in lieu of or in addition to other physical punishment, a \"prisoner was strapped down on his back; then 'water [was] poured in his face on the upper lip, and effectually stop[ped] his breathing as long as there [was] a constant stream'.\" In Mississippi, the accused was held down, and water was poured \"from a dipper into the nose so as to strangle him, thus causing pain and horror, for the purpose of forcing a confession.\"\n\nThe U.S. army used waterboarding, called the \"water cure\", during the Philippine–American War. It is not clear where this practice came from; it probably was adopted from the Filipinos, who themselves adopted it from the Spanish. Reports of \"cruelties\" from soldiers stationed in the Philippines led to Senate hearings on U.S. activity there.\n\nTestimony described the waterboarding of Tobeniano Ealdama \"while supervised by ...Captain/Major Edwin F. Glenn (Glenn Highway)\".\n\nElihu Root, United States Secretary of War, ordered a court martial for Glenn in April 1902.\" During the trial, Glenn \"maintained that the torture of Ealdama was 'a legitimate exercise of force under the laws of war.'\"\n\nThough some reports seem to confuse Ealdama with Glenn, Glenn was found guilty and \"sentenced to a one-month suspension and a fifty-dollar fine\", the leniency of the sentence due to the \"circumstances\" presented at the trial.\n\nPresident Theodore Roosevelt privately rationalized the instances of \"mild torture, the water cure\" but publicly called for efforts to \"prevent the occurrence of all such acts in the future\". In that effort, he ordered the court-martial of General Jacob H. Smith on the island of Samar, \"where some of the worst abuses had occurred\". When the court-martial found only that he had acted with excessive zeal, Roosevelt disregarded the verdict and had the General dismissed from the Army.\n\nRoosevelt soon declared victory in the Philippines, and the public lost interest in \"what had, only months earlier, been alarming revelations\".\n\nThe use of \"third degree interrogation\" techniques to compel confession, ranging from \"psychological duress such as prolonged confinement to extreme violence and torture\", was widespread in early American policing. Lassiter classified the water cure as \"orchestrated physical abuse\", and described the police technique as a \"modern day variation of the method of water torture that was popular during the Middle Ages\". The technique employed by the police involved either holding the head in water until almost drowning, or laying on the back and forcing water into the mouth or nostrils. Such techniques were classified as \"'covert' third degree torture\" since they left no signs of physical abuse, and became popular after 1910 when the direct application of physical violence to force a confession became a media issue and some courts began to deny obviously compelled confessions. The publication of this information in 1931 as part of the Wickersham Commission's \"Report on Lawlessness in Law Enforcement\" led to a decline in the use of third degree police interrogation techniques in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nDuring World War II, both Japanese military personnel, especially the Kempeitai, and the officers of the Gestapo, the German secret police, used waterboarding as a method of torture. During the Japanese occupation of Singapore, the Double Tenth Incident occurred. This included waterboarding, by the method of binding or holding down the victim on his back, placing a cloth over his mouth and nose, and pouring water onto the cloth. In this version, interrogation continued during the torture, with the interrogators beating the victim if he did not reply and the victim swallowing water if he opened his mouth to answer or breathe. When the victim could ingest no more water, the interrogators would beat or jump on his distended stomach.\n\nChase J. Nielsen, one of the U.S. airmen who flew in the Doolittle raid following the attack on Pearl Harbor, was subjected to waterboarding by his Japanese captors. At their trial for war crimes following the war, he testified \"Well, I was put on my back on the floor with my arms and legs stretched out, one guard holding each limb. The towel was wrapped around my face and put across my face and water poured on. They poured water on this towel until I was almost unconscious from strangulation, then they would let up until I'd get my breath, then they'd start over again... I felt more or less like I was drowning, just gasping between life and death.\" In 2007, Senator John McCain claimed that the United States military hanged Japanese soldiers for waterboarding American prisoners of war during World War II. A minimal sentence for Japanese soldiers convicted of waterboarding American soldiers was 15 years.\n\nThe technique was also used during the Algerian War (1954–1962). French journalist Henri Alleg, who was subjected to waterboarding by French paratroopers in Algeria in 1957, is one of only a few people to have described in writing the first-hand experience of being waterboarded. His book \"La Question\", published in 1958 with a preface by Jean-Paul Sartre subsequently banned in France until the end of the Algerian War in 1962, discusses the experience of being strapped to a plank, having his head wrapped in cloth and positioned beneath a running tap:\n\nAlleg stated that he did not break under his ordeal of being waterboarded. He also stated that the incidence of \"accidental\" death of prisoners being subjected to waterboarding in Algeria was \"very frequent\".\n\nWaterboarding was designated as illegal by U.S. generals in the Vietnam War. On 21 January 1968, \"The Washington Post\" published a controversial front-page photograph of two U.S soldiers and one South Vietnamese soldier participating in the waterboarding of a North Vietnamese POW near Da Nang. The article described the practice as \"fairly common\". The photograph led to the soldier being court-martialled by a U.S. military court within one month of its publication, and he was discharged from the army. Another waterboarding photograph of the same scene, referred to as \"water torture\" in the caption, is also exhibited in the War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh City.\n\nBased on the testimonies from more than 35,000 victims of the Pinochet regime, the Chilean Commission on Political Imprisonment and Torture concluded that provoking a near-death experience by waterboarding is torture.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge at the Tuol Sleng prison in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, used waterboarding as a method of torture between 1975 and 1979. The practice was perfected by Duch's lieutenants Mam Nai and Tang Sin Hean and documented in a painting by former inmate Vann Nath, which is on display in the Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum. The museum also has on display boards and other actual tools used for waterboarding during the Khmer Rouge regime.\n\nEvidence shows that the British Army in the Troubles subjected prisoners in Northern Ireland to torture and waterboarding during interrogations in the 1970s. Liam Holden was wrongfully arrested by British forces for the murder of a British soldier and became the last person in the United Kingdom to be sentenced to hang after being convicted in 1973, largely on the basis of an unsigned confession produced by torture. His death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment and he spent 17 years behind bars. On 21 June 2012, in the light of CCRC investigations which confirmed that the methods used to extract confessions were unlawful, Holden had his conviction quashed by the Court of Appeal in Belfast, at the age of 58. Former Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) interrogators during the Troubles admitted that beatings, sleep deprivation, waterboarding, and the other tortures were systematic, and were, at times, sanctioned at a very high level within the force.\n\nThe South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission received testimony from Charles Zeelie and Jeffrey Benzien, officers of the South African Police under Apartheid, that they used waterboarding, referred to as \"tubing\", or the \"wet bag technique\" on political prisoners as part of a wide range of torture methods to extract information. Specifically, a cloth bag was wet and placed over victim's heads, to be removed only when they were near asphyxiation; the procedure was repeated several times. The TRC concluded that the act constituted torture and a gross human rights violation, for which the state was responsible.\n\nUntil 2007, all special operations units in all branches of the U.S. military and the CIA's Special Activities Division employed the use of waterboarding as part of survival school (Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape) training, to psychologically prepare soldiers for the possibility of being captured by enemy forces. By 2002, many branches of the military had backed away from waterboarding trainees, and in November 2007 the practice was banned by the Department of Defense because it \"provided no instructional or training benefit to the student\". John Yoo, former Deputy Assistant Attorney General under President Bush stated that the United States has subjected 20,000 of its troops to waterboarding as part of SERE training prior to deployment to Iraq and Afghanistan.\nDr. Jerald Ogrisseg, former head of Psychological Services for the Air Force SERE School has stated in testimony before the U.S. Senate's Committee on Armed Services that there are fundamental differences between SERE training and what occurs in real world settings. Dr. Ogrisseg further states that his experience is limited to SERE training, but that he did not believe waterboarding to be productive in either setting.\n\nJane Mayer wrote for The New Yorker:\n\nand continues to report:\n\nHowever, according to a declassified Justice Department memo attempting to justify torture which references a still-classified report of the CIA Inspector General on the CIA's use of waterboarding, among other \"enhanced\" interrogation techniques, the CIA applied waterboarding to detainees \"in a different manner\" than the technique used in SERE training:\n\nThe difference was in the manner in which the detainees' breathing was obstructed. At the SERE school and in the DoJ opinion, the subject's airflow is disrupted by the firm application of a damp cloth over the air passages; the interrogator applies a small amount of water to the cloth in a controlled manner. By contrast, the Agency interrogator ... applied large volumes of water to a cloth that covered the detainee's mouth and nose. One of the psychiatrist / interrogators acknowledged that the Agency's use of the technique is different from that used in SERE training because it is 'for real' and is more poignant and convincing.\nAccording to the DOJ memo, the IG Report observed that the CIA's Office of Medical Services (OMS) stated that \"the experience of the SERE psychologist / interrogators on the waterboard was probably misrepresented at the time, as the SERE waterboard experience is so different from the subsequent Agency usage as to make it almost irrelevant\" and that \"[c]onsequently, according to OMS, there was no a priori reason to believe that applying the waterboard with the frequency and intensity with which it was used by the psychologist/interrogators was either efficacious or medically safe.\"\n\nIn 1983, San Jacinto County, Texas sheriff, James Parker, and three of his deputies were convicted for conspiring to force confessions. The complaint said they \"subject prisoners to a suffocating water torture ordeal to coerce confessions. This generally included the placement of a towel over the nose and mouth of the prisoner and the pouring of water into the towel until the prisoner began to move, jerk (twitch), or otherwise indicate suffocation and/or drowning\". James Parker was sentenced to ten years in prison, and the deputies to four years.\n\n21 June 2004 issue of \"Newsweek\" stated that the Bybee Memo, an early August 2002 legal memorandum drafted by John Yoo and signed by his boss, Jay S. Bybee, then head of the Office of Legal Counsel, described interrogation tactics against suspected terrorists or terrorist affiliates the George W. Bush administration would consider legal, was \"prompted by CIA questions about what to do with a top Qaeda captive, Abu Zubaydah, who had turned uncooperative... and was drafted after White House meetings convened by George W. Bush's chief counsel, Alberto Gonzales, along with Defense Department general counsel William Haynes and David Addington, Vice President Dick Cheney's counsel, who discussed specific interrogation techniques\", citing \"a source familiar with the discussions\". Amongst the methods they found acceptable was waterboarding. Jack Goldsmith, head of the Office of Legal Counsel (October 2003-June 2004) in the Department of Justice, later said this group was known as \"the war council\".\n\nIn November 2005, ABC News reported that former CIA agents claimed that the CIA engaged in a modern form of waterboarding, along with five other \"enhanced interrogation techniques\", against suspected members of al Qaeda.\n\nOn 20 July 2007, U.S. President George W. Bush signed Executive Order 13440, banning torture during interrogation of terror suspects. While the guidelines for interrogation do not specifically ban waterboarding, the executive order refers to torture as defined by 18 USC 2340, which includes \"the threat of imminent death\", as well as the U.S. Constitution's ban on cruel and unusual punishment. Reaction to the order was mixed, with the CIA satisfied that it \"clearly defined\" the agency's authorities.\n\nHuman Rights Watch said that answers about what specific techniques had been banned lay in the classified companion document and that \"the people in charge of interpreting [that] document don't have a particularly good track record of reasonable legal analysis\".\nOn 14 September 2007, ABC News reported that sometime in 2006, CIA Director Michael Hayden asked for and received permission from the Bush administration to ban the use of waterboarding in CIA interrogations. A CIA spokesperson declined to discuss interrogation techniques, which he or she said \"have been and continue to be lawful\". ABC reported that waterboarding had been authorized by a 2002 Presidential finding. On 5 November 2007, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that its \"sources confirm... that the CIA has only used this interrogation method against three terrorist detainees and not since 2003.\" John Kiriakou, a former CIA officer, is the first official within the U.S. government to openly admit to the use of waterboarding as an interrogation technique, as of 10 December 2007.\n\nOn 6 February 2008, CIA director General Michael Hayden stated that the CIA had waterboarded three prisoners during 2002 and 2003, namely Abu Zubaydah, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri.\n\nOn 23 February 2008, the Justice Department revealed that its internal ethics office was investigating the department's legal approval for waterboarding of al Qaeda suspects by the CIA and was likely to make public an unclassified version of its report.\n\nOn 15 October 2008, it was reported that the Bush administration had issued a pair of secret memos to the CIA in June 2003 and June 2004 explicitly endorsing waterboarding and other torture techniques against al-Qaeda suspects. The memos were granted only after \"repeated requests\" from the CIA, who at the time were worried that the White House would eventually try to distance themselves from the issue. Field employees in the agency believed they could easily be blamed for using the techniques without proper written permission or authority. Until this point, the Bush administration had never been concretely tied to acknowledging the torture practices.\n\nIn December 2008, Robert Mueller, the Director of the FBI since 5 July 2001, had said that despite Bush Administration claims that waterboarding has \"disrupted a number of attacks, maybe dozens of attacks\", he does not believe that evidence obtained by the U.S. government through enhanced interrogation techniques such as waterboarding disrupted one attack.\n\nIn an interview in January 2009, Dick Cheney acknowledged the use of waterboarding to interrogate suspects and said that waterboarding had been \"used with great discrimination by people who know what they're doing and has produced a lot of valuable information and intelligence\".\n\nOn 1 July 2009, the Obama administration announced that it was delaying the scheduled release of declassified portions of a report by the CIA Inspector General in response to a civil lawsuit. The CIA report reportedly cast doubt on the effectiveness of the torture used by CIA interrogators during the Bush administration. This was based on several George W. Bush-era Justice Department memos declassified in the Spring of 2009 by the U.S. Justice Department.\n\nAbu Zubaydah was waterboarded by the CIA.\n\nIn 2002, U.S. intelligence located Abu Zubaydah by tracing his phone calls. He was captured 28 March 2002, in a safehouse located in a two-story apartment in Faisalabad, Pakistan.\n\nOne of Abu Zubaydah's FBI interrogators, Ali Soufan, wrote a book about his experiences. He later testified to Congress that Zubaydah was producing useful information in response to conventional interrogation methods, including the names of Sheikh Mohammed and Jose Padilla. He stopped providing accurate information in response to harsh techniques. Soufan, one of the FBI's most successful interrogators, explained, \"When they are in pain, people will say anything to get the pain to stop. Most of the time, they will lie, make up anything to make you stop hurting them. That means the information you're getting is useless.\"\n\nParticipating in his later interrogation by the CIA were two American psychologists, James Elmer Mitchell and R. Scott Shumate.\n\nIn December 2007, \"The Washington Post\" reported that there were some discrepancies regarding reports about the number of times Zubaydah was waterboarded. According to a previous account by former CIA officer John Kiriakou, Abu Zubaydah broke after just 35 seconds of waterboarding, which involved stretching cellophane over his mouth and nose and pouring water on his face to create the sensation of drowning. Kiriakou later admitted that he had no first hand knowledge of the interrogation and accused the CIA of using him to spread disinformation.\n\nFormer CIA operative John Kiriakou in 2007 told CNN's \"American Morning\" that the waterboarding of Al Qaeda's Abu Zubaydah indirectly led to the arrest of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed:\n\nKhalid Sheikh Mohammed was waterboarded 183 times while being interrogated by the CIA.\n\nPakistani intelligence agents say Mohammed was carrying a letter from bin Laden at the time of his arrest, but there is no evidence he knew bin Laden's whereabouts. By this point, any information Mohammed had would have been years out of date.\n\nAfter being subjected to repeated waterboarding, Mohammed claimed participation in thirty-one terrorist plots. On 15 June 2009, in response to a lawsuit by the ACLU, the government was forced to disclose a previously classified portion of a CIA memo written in 2006. It recounted Mohammed's telling the CIA that he \"made up stories\" to stop from being tortured. Legal experts cast serious doubt as to the validity of Mohammed's \"confessions\" as being false claims, and human rights activists raised serious concerns over the \"sham process\" of justice and use of torture.\n\nDuring a radio interview on 24 October 2006, with Scott Hennen of radio station WDAY, Vice President Dick Cheney agreed with the use of waterboarding. The administration later denied that Cheney had confirmed the use of waterboarding, saying that U.S. officials do not talk publicly about interrogation techniques because they are classified. White House Press Secretary Tony Snow claimed that Cheney was not referring to waterboarding, despite repeated questions refused to specify what else Cheney was referring to by a \"dunk in the water\", and refused to confirm that this meant waterboarding.\n\nOn 13 September 2007, ABC News reported that a former intelligence officer stated that Khalid Sheikh Mohammed had been waterboarded in the presence of a female CIA supervisor.\n\nOn 2 June 2010, while speaking to the Economic Club of Grand Rapids, Michigan, former President Bush publicly confirmed his knowledge and approval of waterboarding Mohammed, saying \"Yeah, we waterboarded Khalid Sheikh Mohammed...I'd do it again to save lives.\"\n\nPresident Barack Obama banned the use of waterboarding and several other interrogation methods in January 2009. He reported that U.S. personnel must stick to the Army Field Manual guidelines. In early April 2009, the Obama administration released several classified Justice Department memos from the George W. Bush administration that discussed waterboarding.\n\nObama opposed prosecuting CIA personnel who committed waterboarding while relying on legal advice provided by their superiors. The American Civil Liberties Union has criticized his stance. In early April 2009, news reports stated that Obama would support an independent investigation over the issue as long as it would be bipartisan. On 23 April 2009, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs stated that the administration had changed its position and no long supported such an idea. The topic was the subject of heated internal debate within the White House.\n\nNational Intelligence Director Dennis Blair has stated that \"high value information\" came from waterboarding certain prisoners during the George W. Bush administration. He also commented that he could not know for sure whether or not other interrogation methods would have caused them to talk, had they been tried. In an administration memo that was publicly released, he wrote, \"I do not fault those who made the decisions at that time, and I will absolutely defend those who carried out the interrogations within the orders they were given.\"\n\nAn April poll by Rasmussen Reports found that 77 percent of voters had followed the story in the media and that 58 percent believed that releasing the memos compromised American national security. On the issue of a further investigation, 58 percent disagreed while 28% agreed.\n\nObama detailed his view on waterboarding and torture in a press conference on 29 April 2009.\n\nIn May 2011, Obama authorized a successful commando raid to kill Osama Bin Laden. The extent to which waterboarding assisted in ascertaining the whereabouts of Bin Laden is a matter of dispute. Former Attorney General Michael Mukasey criticized the Obama administration for denying future missions the intelligence capability that made the raid possible: \"Acknowledging and meeting the need for an effective and lawful interrogation program, which we once had, and freeing CIA operatives and others to administer it under congressional oversight, would be a fitting way to mark the demise of Osama bin Laden.\" CIA Director Leon Panetta, who supervised the operation that found and killed bin Laden, stated in an interview with NBC reporter Brian Williams: \"...they used these enhanced interrogation techniques against some of these detainees. But I'm also saying, that the debate about whether we would have gotten the same information through other approaches, I think, is always going to be an open question.\"\n\nRepublican Senator John McCain, in a \"Washington Post\" opinion piece, disputed Mukasey's account, saying:\nThe Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture, released in December 2014, examined in detail specifically whether torture provided information helpful in locating Osama Bin Laden, and concluded that it did not, and that the CIA deliberately misled political leaders and the public in saying it had.\nU.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. announced on 30 August 2012 that no one would be prosecuted for the deaths of a prisoner in Afghanistan in 2002 and another in Iraq in 2003, eliminating the last possibility that any criminal charges will be brought as a result of the interrogations carried out by the CIA. The Justice Department closed its investigation of the CIA's use of severe interrogation methods, because investigators said they could not prove any agents crossed the lines authorized by the Bush administration in the \"war on terror\" program of detention and rendition. According to \"the New York Times\" the closing of the two cases means that the Obama administration's limited effort to scrutinize the counterterrorism programs, such as waterboarding, carried out under President George W. Bush has come to an end.\n\nIn October 2014, John Cantlie reported that ISIS had waterboarded prisoners, \"Some of us who tried to escape were waterboarded by our captors, as Muslim prisoners are waterboarded by their American captors.\"\n\nIn 2015, various Republican presidential candidates indicated their willingness to bring back waterboarding as an interrogation technique. Donald Trump (the eventual winner of the election) stated he believed in the effectiveness of the technique. Trump also stated that it is a \"minimal\" form of torture, and that it was necessary. Ben Carson had not ruled out approving its use, nor did Jeb Bush. Carly Fiorina endorsed its use, as did Rick Perry and Rick Santorum.\n\nWaterboarding and other forms of water torture have historically been used for 1) punishing, 2) forcing confessions for use in trials 3) eliciting false confessions for political purposes, and 4) obtaining factual intelligence for military purposes.\n\nIts use principally for obtaining confessions rather than as punishment dates back to the 15th century and the Spanish Inquisition. It was also in use for the same purpose, albeit illegally, by U.S. police officers as recently as 1981. During the Korean War, the North Koreans used several enhanced interrogation techniques (EIT) to achieve prisoner compliance and false confessions. Such techniques caused a U.S.airmen to falsely \"confess\" that there was a plan to use biological weapons against North Korea. After 9/11, CIA interrogators, sought to waterboard suspected terrorists to obtain actionable intelligence, but prisoners falsely confessed to whatever interrogators accused them of in order to stop the EIT. Khalid Shaykh Muhammad fabricated stories to give his tormentors \"everything they wanted to hear.\" Later, he recanted, citing he was being tortured when he made up the stories. The same was true for the \"confessions\" elicited by EIT on Riduan Isamuddin, aka Hambali.\n\nWaterboarding's effectiveness as a technique for reliably obtaining truthful, useful intelligence has not been established. In May 2003, a senior CIA interrogator told the CIA's Office of Inspector General that the EIT then being used by the CIA was modeled after U.S. resistance training to prepare servicemen for \"physical torture\" by North Vietnamese. This torture, including waterboarding, was intended to extract \"confessions for propaganda purposes\" from U.S. airman \"who possessed little actionable intelligence.\" If the CIA wanted to obtain useful information rather than false confessions, he said, the CIA needed \"a different working model for interrogating terrorists.\" Nonetheless, with the active support of former Vice President Dick Cheney, the CIA embraced the EIT approach proposed by two psychologists, James Elmer Mitchell and Bruce Jessen, neither of whom had interrogation experience. While Cheney continues to maintain that waterboarding has \"produced phenomenal results\" including tracking down Osama bin Laden, the report of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence concluded that \"the CIA's use of its enhanced interrogation techniques was not an effective means of acquiring intelligence or gaining cooperation from detainees.\" There was no proof, according to the 6,700 page report, that information obtained through waterboarding prevented any attacks or saved any lives, or that information obtained from the detainees was not or could not have been obtained through conventional interrogation methods.\n\nAll nations that are signatory to the United Nations Convention Against Torture have agreed they are subject to the explicit prohibition on torture under any condition. This was affirmed by Saadi v. Italy in which the European Court of Human Rights, on 28 February 2008, upheld the absolute nature of the torture ban by ruling that international law permits no exceptions to it. Article 2.2 of the Convention Against Torture states that \"[n]o exceptional circumstances whatsoever, whether a state of war or a threat of war, internal political instability or any other public emergency, may be invoked as a justification of torture.\" Additionally, signatories of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are bound to Article 5, which states, \"No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.\" Many signatories of the UN Convention Against Torture have made specific declarations and reservations regarding the interpretation of the term \"torture\" and restricted the jurisdiction of its enforcement. However, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Louise Arbour, stated on the subject \"I would have no problems with describing this practice as falling under the prohibition of torture\", and that violators of the UN Convention Against Torture should be prosecuted under the principle of universal jurisdiction.\n\nBent Sørensen, Senior Medical Consultant to the International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims and former member of the United Nations Committee Against Torture has said:\n\nLt. Gen. Michael D. Maples, the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, concurred by stating, in a hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee, that he believes waterboarding violates Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions.\n\nIn a review of \"The Dark Side: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals\", by Jane Mayer, \"The New York Times\" reported on 11 July 2008, that \"Red Cross investigators concluded last year in a secret report that the Central Intelligence Agency's interrogation methods for high-level Qaeda prisoners constituted torture and could make the Bush administration officials who approved them guilty of war crimes\", that the techniques applied to Abu Zubaydah were \"categorically\" torture, and that Abu Zubaydah had told investigators that, contrary to what had been revealed previously, \"he had been waterboarded at least 10 times in a single week and as many as three times in a day\".\n\nShortly before the end of Bush's second term, news media in other countries were opining that under the United Nations Convention Against Torture, the U.S. is obligated to hold those responsible to account under criminal law.\n\nThe United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment– Manfred Nowak– on 20 January 2009, remarked on German television that, following the inauguration of Barack Obama as new President, George W. Bush has lost his head of state immunity and under international law, the U.S. is now mandated to start criminal proceedings against all those involved in violations of the UN Convention Against Torture. Law professor Dietmar Herz explained Nowak's comments by saying that under U.S. and international law, former President Bush is criminally responsible for adopting torture as interrogation tool.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court in Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain, said that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights \"does not of its own force impose obligations as a matter of international law.\" However, the United States has a historical record of regarding waterboarding as a war crime, and has prosecuted individuals for such practice in the past.\n\nIn 1947, during the Yokohama War Crimes Trials, the United States prosecuted a Japanese civilian who had served in World War II as an interpreter for the Japanese military, Yukio Asano, for \"Violation of the Laws and Customs of War\", asserting that he \"did unlawfully take and convert to his own use Red Cross packages and supplies intended for\" prisoners, but, far worse, that he also \"did willfully and unlawfully mistreat and torture\" prisoners of war. The charges against Asano included \"beating using hands, fists, club; kicking; water torture; burning using cigarettes; strapping on a stretcher head downward.\" The specifications in the charges with regard to \"water torture\" consisted of \"pouring water up [the] nostrils\" of one prisoner, \"forcing water into [the] mouths and noses\" of two other prisoners, and \"forcing water into [the] nose\" of a fourth prisoner. Asano received a sentence of 15 years of hard labor.\n\nFollowing the September 11 attacks, several memoranda, including the Bybee memo, were written analyzing the legal position and possibilities in the treatment of prisoners. The memos, known today as the \"torture memos\", advocate enhanced interrogation techniques, while pointing out that refuting the Geneva Conventions would reduce the possibility of prosecution for war crimes. In addition, a new definition of torture was issued. Most actions that fall under the international definition do not fall within this new definition advocated by the U.S.\n\nIn its 2005 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices, the U.S. Department of State formally recognized \"submersion of the head in water\" as torture in its examination of Tunisia's poor human rights record, and draws parallels between the two techniques, citing the similar usage of water on the subject.\n\nOn 6 September 2006, the U.S. Department of Defense released a revised Army Field Manual entitled \"Human Intelligence Collector Operations\" that prohibits the use of waterboarding by U.S. military personnel. The department adopted the manual amid widespread criticism of U.S. handling of prisoners in the War on Terrorism, and prohibits other practices in addition to waterboarding. The revised manual applies only to U.S. military personnel, and as such does not apply to the practices of the CIA. Nevertheless, Steven G. Bradbury, acting head of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Legal Counsel, on 14 February 2008 testified:\n\nIn addition, both under the War Crimes Act and international law, violators of the laws of war are criminally liable under the command responsibility doctrine, and they could still be prosecuted for war crimes. Commenting on the torture memos, Scott Horton pointed out:\n\nMichael Mukasey's refusal to investigate and prosecute anyone that relied on these legal opinions led Jordan Paust of the University of Houston Law Center to write an article for JURIST stating:\n\nOn 22 February 2008, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse made public that \"the Justice Department has announced it has launched an investigation of the role of top DOJ officials and staff attorneys in authorizing and/or overseeing the use of waterboarding by U.S. intelligence agencies.\"\n\nBoth houses of the United States Congress approved a bill by February 2008 that would ban waterboarding and other harsh interrogation methods, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. As he promised, President Bush vetoed the legislation on 8 March. His veto applied to the authorization for the entire intelligence budget for the 2008 fiscal year, but he cited the waterboarding ban as the reason for the veto. Supporters of the bill supporters lacked enough votes to overturn the veto.\n\nOn 22 January 2009, President Barack Obama signed a Executive Order 13491, which requires both U.S. military and paramilitary organizations to use the Army Field Manual as the guide on getting information from prisoners, moving away from the Bush administration tactics.\n\n\nWhile waterboarding has been depicted in several films and demonstrated at protest gatherings, images of its actual use are scarce. The CIA allegedly destroyed all videos it made of the procedure. The 1968 Washington Post photo of a captured North Vietnamese soldier being interrogated is arguably different because instead of being strapped to a board, the prisoner is held down by two soldiers as a third pours water from a canteen over a cloth covering face.\nOne eye-witness depiction of waterboarding is a painting by Vann Nath, a Cambodian artist who was held captive and tortured by the Khmer Rouge. After his release in 1979 from Tuol Sleng Prison, he began to paint pictures of the abusive practices used there, including waterboarding, to let people know about them, saying of the prisoners he heard screaming for help: \"I would like their souls to get something from what I paint.\" \nOne of his waterboarding paintings depicts a sparse room with a man affixed to a board by iron bars. A cloth covers his head. Another man pours water from a watering can over his face. A similar board and watering can are on display at the Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum. \"Waterboarding of Abu Zubaydah\", a drawing by , has been exhibited at the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences, DePaul University, Brecht Forum, The Graduate Center, CUNY, and Palace of Culture and Science.\nIn 2008, the \"Coney Island waterboarding thrill ride\" went on display in Coney Island amusement park: viewers would see two models, one a captive wearing an orange uniform who was spread-eagled on a tilted table, the other one a masked interrogator. When viewers inserted a dollar the interrogator figure would pour water onto a rag over the captive figures' nose and throat, upon which the captive figure would start convulsing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27311417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27311417", "title": "Wet infrastructure", "text": "Wet infrastructure\n\nWet infrastructure is the spectrum of water-related projects relating to water supply, treatment and storage, water resource management, flood management, coastal restoration, hydropower and renewable energy facilities. Common examples of wet infrastructure include new construction as well as renovations and maintenance of locks, weirs, storm-surge barriers, guiding structures, pumping plants, culverts, bridges, controlling systems, operating systems, and tunnel installations.\n\n"}
{"id": "313027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313027", "title": "White nationalism", "text": "White nationalism\n\nWhite nationalism is a type of nationalism or pan-nationalism which espouses the belief that white people are a race and seeks to develop and maintain a white national identity. Its proponents identify with and are attached to the concept of a white nation. White nationalists say they seek to ensure the survival of the white race, and the cultures of traditionally white ethnic groups. They hold that white people should maintain their majority in majority-white countries, maintain their political and economic dominance, and that their cultures should be foremost. Many white nationalists believe that miscegenation, multiculturalism, immigration of nonwhites and low birth rates among whites are threatening the white race, and some believe these things are being promoted as part of an attempted white genocide.\n\nWhite nationalism is sometimes described as a euphemism for, or subset of, white supremacy, and the two have been used interchangeably by journalists and other analysts. White nationalist groups espouse white separatism and white supremacy. White separatism is the pursuit of a \"white-only state\"; supremacism is the belief that white people are superior to nonwhites, taking ideas from social Darwinism and Nazism. White nationalists generally avoid the term \"supremacy\" because it has negative connotations.\n\nCritics argue that the term \"white nationalism\" and ideas such as white pride exist solely to provide a sanitized public face for white supremacy, and that most white nationalist groups promote racial violence.\n\nWhite nationalists claim that culture is a product of race, and advocate for the self-preservation of white people. White nationalists seek to ensure the survival of (what they see as) the white race, and the cultures of historically white nations. They hold that white people should maintain their majority in mainly-white countries, maintain their dominance of its political and economic life, and that their culture should be foremost. Many white nationalists believe that miscegenation, multiculturalism, mass immigration of non-whites and low birth rates among whites are threatening the white race, and some argue that it amounts to white genocide.\n\nPolitical scientist Samuel P. Huntington described white nationalists as arguing that the demographic shift in the United States towards non-whites would bring a new culture that is intellectually and morally inferior. White nationalists claim that this demographic shift brings affirmative action, immigrant ghettos and declining educational standards. Most American white nationalists say immigration should be restricted to people of European ancestry.\n\nWhite nationalists embrace a variety of religious and non-religious beliefs, including various denominations of Christianity, generally Protestant, although some specifically overlap with white nationalist ideology (Christian Identity, for example, is a family of white supremacist denominations), Germanic neopaganism (e.g. Wotanism) and atheism.\n\nMost white nationalists define white people in a restricted way. In the United States, it often—though not exclusively—implies European ancestry of non-Jewish descent. Some white nationalists draw on 19th-century racial taxonomy. White nationalist Jared Taylor has argued that Jews can be considered \"white\", although this is controversial within white nationalist circles. Many white nationalists oppose Israel and Zionism, while some, such as William Daniel Johnson and Taylor, have expressed support for Israel and have drawn parallels between their ideology and Zionism.\n\nDifferent racial theories, such as Nordicism and Germanism, define different groups as white, both excluding some southern and eastern Europeans because of a perceived racial taint. Pan-Aryanism defines whites as individuals native to Europe, the Americas, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and Western Asia who are wholly of Caucasian lineage or are overwhelmingly from the following Caucasian ethnic groups, or any combination thereof: Indo-European (\"Aryan\", including the Iranian and Indo-Aryan peoples), Old European (e.g. Basque), or Hamitic (in modern times supposedly confined to Berbers).\n\nThe White Australia policy was semi-official government policy in Australia until the mid twentieth century. It restricted non-white immigration to Australia and gave preference to British migrants over all others.\n\nThe Barton Government, which won the first elections following Federation in 1901, was formed by the Protectionist Party with the support of the Australian Labor Party (ALP). The support of the Labor Party was contingent upon restricting non-white immigration, reflecting the attitudes of the Australian Workers' Union and other labor organizations at the time, upon whose support the Labor Party was founded. The first Parliament of Australia quickly moved to restrict immigration to maintain Australia's \"British character\", passing the Pacific Island Labourers Act and the Immigration Restriction Act before parliament rose for its first Christmas recess. The Immigration Restriction Act of 1901 limited immigration to Australia and required a person seeking entry to Australia to write out a passage of 50 words dictated to them in any European language, not necessarily English, at the discretion of an immigration officer. Barton argued in favour of the bill: \"The doctrine of the equality of man was never intended to apply to the equality of the Englishman and the Chinaman.\" The passage chosen for the test could often be very difficult, so that even if the test was given in English, a person was likely to fail. The test enabled immigration officials to exclude individuals on the basis of race without explicitly saying so. Although the test could theoretically be given to any person arriving in Australia, in practice it was given selectively on the basis of race. This test was later abolished in 1958.\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Stanley Bruce supported the White Australia policy, and made it an issue in his campaign for the 1925 Australian Federal election.\n\nIt is necessary that we should determine what are the ideals towards which every Australian would desire to strive. I think those ideals might well be stated as being to secure our national safety, and to ensure the maintenance of our White Australia Policy to continue as an integral portion of the British Empire. We intend to keep this country white and not allow its peoples to be faced with the problems that at present are practically insoluble in many parts of the world.\n\nAt the beginning of World War II, Prime Minister John Curtin (ALP) expressed support for White Australia policy: \"This country shall remain forever the home of the descendants of those people who came here in peace in order to establish in the South Seas an outpost of the British race.\"\n\nAnother (ALP) Leader of the Labor Party from 1960 to 1967 Arthur Calwell supported the White European Australia policy. This is reflected by Calwell's comments in his 1972 memoirs, \"Be Just and Fear Not\", in which he made it clear that he maintained his view that non-European people should not be allowed to settle in Australia. He wrote:\n\nI am proud of my white skin, just as a Chinese is proud of his yellow skin, a Japanese of his brown skin, and the Indians of their various hues from black to coffee-coloured. Anybody who is not proud of his race is not a man at all. And any man who tries to stigmatize the Australian community as racist because they want to preserve this country for the white race is doing our nation great harm... I reject, in conscience, the idea that Australia should or ever can become a multi-racial society and survive.\n\nHe was the last leader of either the Labour or Liberal party to support it.\n\nThe Parliament of Canada passed the Chinese Immigration Act of 1923 to bar all Chinese from coming to Canada with the exception of diplomats, students, and those granted special permission by the Minister of Immigration. Chinese immigration to Canada had already been heavily regulated by the Chinese Immigration Act of 1885 which required Chinese immigrants to pay a fifty dollar fee to enter the country (the fee was increased to one hundred dollars in 1900 and to five hundred dollars in 1903). Groups such as the Asiatic Exclusion League, which had formed in Vancouver, British Columbia on 12 August 1907 under the auspices of the Trades and Labour Council, pressured Parliament to halt Asian immigration. The Exclusion League's stated aim was \"to keep Oriental immigrants out of British Columbia.\"\n\nThe Canadian government also attempted to restrict immigration from British India by passing an order-in-council on January 8, 1908, that prohibited immigration of persons who \"in the opinion of the Minister of the Interior\" did not \"come from the country of their birth or citizenship by a continuous journey and or through tickets purchased before leaving their country of their birth or nationality.\" In practice, this applied only to ships that began their voyages in India, because the great distance usually necessitated a stopover in either Japan or Hawaii. These regulations came at a time when Canada was accepting massive numbers of immigrants (over 400,000 in 1913 alone – a figure that remains unsurpassed to this day), almost all of whom came from Europe. This piece of legislation has been called the \"continuous journey regulation\".\n\nThe Thule Society developed out of the \"Germanic Order\" in 1918, and those who wanted to join the \"Order\" in 1917 had to sign a special \"blood declaration of faith\" concerning their lineage: \"The signer hereby swears to the best of his knowledge and belief that no Jewish or coloured blood flows in either his or in his wife's veins, and that among their ancestors are no members of the coloured races.\" Heinrich Himmler, one of the main perpetrators of the Holocaust, said in a speech in 1937: \"The next decades do in fact not mean some struggle of foreign politics which Germany can overcome or not ... but a question of to be or not to be for the white race ... .\" As the Nazi ideologist Alfred Rosenberg said on the 29th of May 1938 on the Steckelburg in Schlüchtern: \"It is however certain that all of us share the fate of Europe, and that we shall regard this common fate as an obligation, because in the end the very existence of White people depends on the unity of the European continent.\"\n\nAt the same time Nazis subdivided white people into groups, viewing the Nordics as the \"master race\" (\"Herrenvolk\") above groups like Alpine and Mediterranean peoples. Slavic peoples, such as Russians and Poles, were considered Untermenschen instead of Aryan. Hitler's conception of the Aryan \"Herrenvolk\" (\"Aryan master race\") explicitly excluded the vast majority of Slavs, regarding the Slavs as having dangerous Jewish and Asiatic influences. The Nazis because of this declared Slavs to be \"untermenschen\" (subhumans). Hitler described Slavs as \"a mass of born slaves who feel the need of a master\". Hitler declared that because Slavs were subhumans that the Geneva Conventions were not applicable to them, and German soldiers in World War II were thus permitted to ignore the Geneva Conventions in regard to Slavs. Hitler called Slavs \"a rabbit family\" meaning they were intrinsically idle and disorganized. Nazi Germany's propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels had media speak of Slavs as primitive animals who were from the Siberian tundra who were like a \"dark wave of filth\". The Nazi notion of Slavs being inferior was part of the agenda for creating Lebensraum (\"living space\") for Germans and other Germanic people in eastern Europe that was initiated during World War II under \"Generalplan Ost\", millions of Germans and other Germanic settlers would be moved into conquered territories of Eastern Europe, while the original Slavic inhabitants were to be exterminated and enslaved. Nazi Germany's ally the Independent State of Croatia rejected the common conception that Croats were primarily a Slavic people and claimed that Croats were primarily the descendents of the Germanic Goths. However the Nazi regime continued to classify Croats as \"subhuman\" in spite of the alliance. Even among European cultures and people that were considered Aryan, the Nazis considered the Nordic race and German culture to be superior to other Aryan races and cultures, thus making them far less Pan-European than groups that identify themselves as White Nationalist.\n\nFollowing the example of anti-Chinese poll taxes enacted by California in 1852 and by Australian states in the 1850s, 1860s and 1870s, John Hall's government passed the Chinese Immigration Act 1881. This imposed a £10 tax per Chinese person entering New Zealand, and permitted only one Chinese immigrant for every 10 tons of cargo. Richard Seddon's government increased the tax to £100 per head in 1896, and tightened the other restriction to only one Chinese immigrant for every 200 tons of cargo.\n\nThe Immigration Restriction Act of 1899 prohibited the entry of immigrants who were not of British or Irish parentage and who were unable to fill out an application form in \"any European language.\" The Immigration Restriction Amendment Act of 1920 aimed to further limit Asian immigration into New Zealand by requiring all potential immigrants not of British or Irish parentage to apply in writing for a permit to enter the country. The Minister of Customs had the discretion to determine whether any applicant was \"suitable.\" Prime Minister William Massey asserted that the act was \"the result of a deep seated sentiment on the part of a huge majority of the people of this country that this Dominion shall be what is often called a 'white' New Zealand.\"\n\nOne case of a well known opponent of non-British and non-European immigration to New Zealand is that of English-born Lionel Terry who, after traveling widely to South Africa, British Columbia and finally New Zealand and publishing a book highly critical of capitalism and Asian immigration, shot and killed an elderly Chinese immigrant in Wellington. Terry was convicted of murder in 1905 and sentenced to death, but the sentence was commuted to life incarceration in New Zealand psychiatric institutions.\n\nA Department of External Affairs memorandum in 1953 stated: \"Our immigration is based firmly on the principle that we are and intend to remain a country of European development. It is inevitably discriminatory against Asians – indeed against all persons who are not wholly of European race and colour. Whereas we have done much to encourage immigration from Europe, we do everything to discourage it from Asia.\"\n\nIn Paraguay, the New Australian Movement founded New Australia, a utopian socialist settlement in 1893. Its founder, William Lane, intended the settlement to be based on a \"common-hold\" instead of a commonwealth, life marriage, teetotalism, communism and a brotherhood of Anglophone white people and the preservation of the \"colour-line\". The colony was officially founded as \"Colonia Nueva Australia\" and comprised 238 adults and children.\n\nIn July 1893, the first ship left Sydney, Australia for Paraguay, where the government was keen to get white settlers, and had offered the group a large area of good land. The settlement had been described as a refuge for misfits, failures and malcontents of the left wing of Australian democracy. Notable Australian individuals who joined the colony included Mary Gilmore, Rose Summerfield and Gilbert Stephen Casey. Summerfield was the mother of León Cadogan, a noted Paraguayan ethnologist.\n\nDue to poor management and a conflict over the prohibition of alcohol, the government of Paraguay eventually dissolved New Australia as a cooperative. Some colonists founded communes elsewhere in Paraguay but others returned to Australia or moved to England. Around 2,000 descendants of the New Australia colonists still live in Paraguay.\n\nIn South Africa, white nationalism was championed by the National Party starting in 1948, as opposition to apartheid heated up. The Promotion of Bantu Self-Government Act, 1959 established homelands (sometimes pejoratively referred to as Bantustans) for ten different black African tribes. The ultimate goal of the National Party was to move all Black South Africans into one of these homelands (although they might continue to work in South Africa as \"guest workers\"), leaving what was left of South Africa (about 87 percent of the land area) with what would then be a White majority, at least on paper. As the homelands were seen by the apartheid government as embryonic independent nations, all Black South Africans were registered as citizens of the homelands, not of the nation as a whole, and were expected to exercise their political rights only in the homelands. Accordingly, the three token parliamentary seats that had been reserved for White representatives of black South Africans in Cape Province were scrapped. The other three provinces – Transvaal, the Orange Free State, and Natal – had never allowed any Black representation.\n\nColoureds were removed from the Common Roll of Cape Province in 1953. Instead of voting for the same representatives as White South Africans, they could now only vote for four White representatives to speak for them. Later, in 1968, the Coloureds were disenfranchised altogether. In the place of the four parliamentary seats, a partially elected body was set up to advise the government in an amendment to the Separate Representation of Voters Act.\n\nDuring the 1960s, 1970s, and early 1980s, the government implemented a policy of \"resettlement\", to force people to move to their designated \"group areas\". Millions of people were forced to relocate during this period. These removals included people relocated due to slum clearance programs, labour tenants on White-owned farms, the inhabitants of the so-called \"black spots\", areas of Black owned land surrounded by White farms, the families of workers living in townships close to the homelands, and \"surplus people\" from urban areas, including thousands of people from the Western Cape (which was declared a \"Coloured Labour Preference Area\") who were moved to the Transkei and Ciskei homelands. The best-publicised forced removals of the 1950s occurred in Johannesburg, when 60,000 people were moved to the new township of Soweto, an abbreviation for South Western Townships.\n\nUntil 1955, Sophiatown had been one of the few urban areas where Blacks were allowed to own land, and was slowly developing into a multiracial slum. As industry in Johannesburg grew, Sophiatown became the home of a rapidly expanding black workforce, as it was convenient and close to town. It could also boast the only swimming pool for Black children in Johannesburg. As one of the oldest black settlements in Johannesburg, Sophiatown held an almost symbolic importance for the 50,000 Blacks it contained, both in terms of its sheer vibrancy and its unique culture. Despite a vigorous ANC protest campaign and worldwide publicity, the removal of Sophiatown began on 9 February 1955 under the Western Areas Removal Scheme. In the early hours, heavily armed police entered Sophiatown to force residents out of their homes and load their belongings onto government trucks. The residents were taken to a large tract of land, thirteen miles (19 km) from the city center, known as Meadowlands (that the government had purchased in 1953). Meadowlands became part of a new planned Black city called Soweto. The Sophiatown slum was destroyed by bulldozers, and a new White suburb named Triomf (Triumph) was built in its place. This pattern of forced removal and destruction was to repeat itself over the next few years, and was not limited to people of African descent. Forced removals from areas like Cato Manor (Mkhumbane) in Durban, and District Six in Cape Town, where 55,000 coloured and Indian people were forced to move to new townships on the Cape Flats, were carried out under the Group Areas Act of 1950. Ultimately, nearly 600,000 coloured, Indian and Chinese people were moved in terms of the Group Areas Act. Some 40,000 White people were also forced to move when land was transferred from \"White South Africa\" into the Black homelands.\n\nBefore South Africa became a republic, politics among White South Africans was typified by the division between the chiefly Afrikaner pro-republic conservative and the largely English anti-republican liberal sentiments, with the legacy of the Boer War still a factor for some people. Once republican status was attained, Hendrik Verwoerd called for improved relations and greater accord between those of British descent and the Afrikaners. He claimed that the only difference now was between those who supported apartheid and those in opposition to it. The ethnic divide would no longer be between Afrikaans speakers and English speakers, but rather White and Black ethnicities. Most Afrikaners supported the notion of unanimity of White people to ensure their safety. White voters of British descent were divided. Many had opposed a republic, leading to a majority \"no\" vote in Natal. Later, however, some of them recognized the perceived need for White unity, convinced by the growing trend of decolonization elsewhere in Africa, which left them apprehensive. Harold Macmillan's \"Wind of Change\" pronouncement left the British faction feeling that Britain had abandoned them. The more conservative English-speakers gave support to Verwoerd; others were troubled by the severing of ties with Britain and remained loyal to the Crown. They were acutely displeased at the choice between British and South African nationality. Although Verwoerd tried to bond these different blocs, the subsequent ballot illustrated only a minor swell of support, indicating that a great many English speakers remained apathetic and that Verwoerd had not succeeded in uniting the White population.\n\nThe Black Homeland Citizenship Act of 1970 was a denaturalization law passed during the apartheid era of South Africa that changed the status of the inhabitants of the Bantustans (Black homelands) so that they were no longer citizens of South Africa. The aim was to ensure that white South Africans came to make up the majority of the \"de jure\" population.\n\nThe Naturalization Act of 1790 () provided the first rules to be followed by the United States government in granting national citizenship. This law limited naturalization to immigrants who were \"free white persons\" of \"good moral character.\" Major changes to this racial requirement for US citizenship did not occur until the years following the American Civil War. In 1868, the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was passed to grant citizenship to black people born in the US, but it specifically excluded untaxed Indians, because they were separate nations. However, citizenship for other non-whites born in the US was not settled until 1898 with United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U.S. 649, which concluded with an important precedent in its interpretation of the Citizenship Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. This racial definition of American citizenship has had consequences for perceptions of American identity.\n\nThroughout the 19th and early 20th centuries, racial definitions of the American nation were still common, resulting in race-specific immigration restrictions, such as the Chinese Exclusion Act. Groups such as the Asiatic Exclusion League, formed on 14 May 1905 in San Francisco, California by 67 labor unions and supported by labor leaders (and European immigrants) Patrick Henry McCarthy of the Building Trades Council of San Francisco, Andrew Furuseth and Walter McCarthy of the Sailor's Union, attempted to influence legislation restricting Asian immigration.\n\nDuring the controversy surrounding the All of Mexico Movement, Senator John C. Calhoun of South Carolina stated \"We have never dreamt of incorporating into our Union any but the Caucasian race—the free white race... Ours, sir, is the Government of a white race.\"\n\nEver since the Confederate States of America's loss in the Civil War, the people who had lived in those states at the time—no matter what race they were—had to start the fight for jobs, power, and other more unimportant things against each other within their own states. At this point in the 18th century United States, the white population had felt an incessant need to be superior to, and more successful than, blacks—both from social and economic standpoints. Before the war, whites were easily above blacks; however, now slavery was abolished. Although this did not mean that blacks were now equal to whites by any means, it was just the beginning of the many steps to achieving minority equality. For now, blacks were at least not considered property of the white man throughout the southern states. This, consequently, instilled fear in the white population—would their race not reign supreme forever? Whenever a group is afraid of losing its identity and power, especially if it is over another group of people, the former proceeds to make radical moves to keep its position over the former. Weakness was not an option.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the Confederate States of America, the Ku Klux Klan (KKK) was founded as an insurgent group with the goal of maintaining the Southern racial system throughout the Reconstruction Era. The creation of this group was able to instill fear in African Americans while, in some cases, filling white Americans with pride in their race and reassurance in the fact that they will stay 'on top'. The message they gave to people around them was that, even though the Confederate States did not exist anymore, the same principle remained in their minds: whites were superior. Although the first incarnation of the KKK was focused on maintaining the Antebellum South, its second incarnation in the 1915-1940s period was much more oriented towards white nationalism and American nativism, with slogans such as \"One Hundred Percent Americanism\" and \"America for Americans\", in which \"Americans\" were understood to be white and Protestant. The 1915 film \"The Birth of a Nation\" is an example of an allegorical invocation of white nationalism during this time, and its positive portrayal of the first KKK is considered to be one of the factors which led to the emergence of the second KKK.\n\nThe second KKK was founded in Atlanta, Georgia in 1915 and, starting in 1921, it adopted a modern business system of recruiting. The organization grew rapidly nationwide at a time of prosperity. Reflecting the social tensions of urban industrialization and vastly increased immigration, its membership grew most rapidly in cities and spread out of the South to the Midwest and West. The second KKK called for strict morality and better enforcement of prohibition. Its rhetoric promoted anti-Catholicism and nativism. Some local groups took part in attacks on private houses and carried out other violent activities. The violent episodes were generally in the South.\n\nThe second KKK was a formal fraternal organization, with a national and state structure. At its peak in the mid-1920s, the organization claimed to include about 15% of the nation's eligible population, approximately 4 to 5 million men. Internal divisions, criminal behavior by leaders, and external opposition brought about a collapse in membership, which had dropped to about 30,000 by 1930. It faded away in the 1940s.\n\nStarting in the 1960s, white nationalism grew in the US as the conservative movement developed in mainstream society. Samuel P. Huntington argues that it developed as a reaction to a perceived decline in the essence of American identity as European, Anglo-Protestant and English-speaking. The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 had opened entry to the US to immigrants other than traditional Northern European and Germanic groups, and as a result it would significantly, and unintentionally, alter the demographic mix in the US.\n\nThe slogan \"white power\" was popularized by American Nazi Party leader George Lincoln Rockwell, who used the term in a debate with Stokely Carmichael of the Black Panther Party after Carmichael issued a call for \"black power\". Rockwell advocated a return to white control of all American institutions, and violently opposed any minority advancement. He rejected the Nazi idea of \"master race\", however, and accepted all white European nationalities in his ideology, including Turks.\n\nOne influential white nationalists in the United States was William Luther Pierce, who founded the National Alliance in 1974.\n\nIn the United States a movement calling for white separatism emerged in the 1980s. Leonard Zeskind has chronicled the movement in his book \"Blood and Politics\", in which he argues that it has moved from the \"margins to the mainstream\".\n\nDuring the 1980s the United States also saw an increase in the number of neo-völkisch movements. According to Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke, these movements cover a wide variety of mutually influencing groups of a radically ethnocentric character which have emerged, especially in the English-speaking world, since World War II. These loose networks revive or imitate the \"völkisch\" movement of 19th and early 20th century Germany in their defensive affirmation of white identity against modernity, liberalism, immigration, multiracialism, and multiculturalism. Some are neo-fascist, neo-Nazi or Third Positionist; others are politicised around some form of white ethnic nationalism or identity politics, and a few have national anarchist tendencies. One example is the neo-tribalist paganism promoted by Else Christensen's Odinist Fellowship. Especially notable is the prevalence of devotional forms and esoteric themes, so neo-völkisch currents often have the character of new religious movements.\n\nIncluded under the neo-völkisch umbrella are movements ranging from conservative revolutionary schools of thought (\"Nouvelle Droite\", European New Right, Evolian Traditionalism) to white supremacist and white separatist interpretations of Christianity and paganism (Christian Identity, Creativity, Nordic racial paganism) to neo-Nazi subcultures (Esoteric Hitlerism, Nazi Satanism, National Socialist black metal).\n\nMore recently, the alt-right, a broad term covering many different far-right ideologies and groups in the United States, some of which endorse white nationalism, has gained traction as an alternative to mainstream conservatism in its national politics. The comic book super hero Captain America, in an ironic co-optation, has been used for dog whistle politics by the alt-right in college campus recruitment in 2017.\n\nIn February 1962 George Lincoln Rockwell, the leader of the American Nazi Party, spoke at a Nation of Islam (NOI) rally in Chicago, where he was applauded by Elijah Muhammad as he pronounced: \"I am proud to stand here before black men. I believe Elijah Muhammed is the Adolf Hitler of the black man!\" Rockwell had attended, but did not speak at, an earlier NOI rally in Washington, D.C. in June 1961, and once he even donated $20 to the NOI. In 1965, after breaking with the Nation of Islam and denouncing its separatist doctrine, Malcolm X told his followers that the Nation of Islam under Elijah Muhammad had made secret agreements with the American Nazi Party and the Ku Klux Klan.\n\nRockwell and other white supremacists (e.g. Willis Carto) also supported less well-known black separatist groups, such as Hassan Jeru-Ahmed's Blackman's Army of Liberation, in reference to which Rockwell told \"Los Angeles Times\" reporter Michael Drosnin in 1967 that if \"Any Negro wants to go back to Africa, I'll carry him piggy-back.\"\n\nMore recently, Tom Metzger, erstwhile Ku Klux Klan leader from California, spoke at a NOI rally in Los Angeles in September 1985 and donated $100 to the group. In October of that same year, over 200 prominent white supremacists met at former Klan leader Robert E. Miles's farm to discuss an alliance with Louis Farrakhan, head of the NOI. In attendance were Edward Reed Fields of the National States' Rights Party, Richard Girnt Butler of the Aryan Nations, Don Black, Roy Frankhouser, and Metzger, who said that \"America is like a rotting carcass. The Jews are living off the carcass like the parasites they are. Farrakhan understands this.\"\n\nNumerous individuals and organizations have argued that ideas such as white pride and white nationalism exist merely to provide a sanitized public face for white supremacy. Kofi Buenor Hadjor argues that black nationalism is a response to racial discrimination, while white nationalism is the expression of white supremacy. Other critics have described white nationalism as a \"...somewhat paranoid ideology\" based upon the publication of pseudo-academic studies.\n\nCarol M. Swain argues that the unstated goal of white nationalism is to appeal to a larger audience, and that most white nationalist groups promote white separatism and racial violence. Opponents accuse white nationalists of hatred, racial bigotry and destructive identity politics. White supremacist groups have a history of perpetrating hate crimes, particularly against people of Jewish or African descent. Examples include the lynching of black people by the Ku Klux Klan (KKK).\n\nSome critics argue that white nationalists—while posturing as civil rights groups advocating the interests of their racial group—frequently draw on the nativist traditions of the KKK and the British National Front. Critics have noted the anti-semitic rhetoric used by some white nationalists, as highlighted by the promotion of conspiracy theories such as Zionist Occupation Government.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
