{"id": "42456269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42456269", "title": "Addanki Dayakar", "text": "Addanki Dayakar\n\nAddanki Dayakar is an Indian political activist and important leader with Telangana Joint Action Committee. He is also the president of Telangana Mala Mahanadu.\n\nHe was born in Nuthankal mandal Nalgonda district in Andhra pradesh. He graduated MCA and LLB from Osmania University.\n\nHe is a major proponent of Telangana statehood. He joined Congress party in March 2014 and unsuccessfully contested Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly election, 2014 from Tungaturthi assembly constituency.\n"}
{"id": "6100801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6100801", "title": "Afshar language", "text": "Afshar language\n\nAfshar or Afshari (, افشار تورکجه‌سی, Әфшар түркҹәси; ) is a Turkic language spoken in Turkey, Iran, Syria, and parts of Afghanistan by the Afshar people. Ethnologue lists it as a dialect of South Azerbaijani language.\n\nAfshar is distinguished by a large number of loanwords from Persian and a rounding of the phoneme to , as occurred in Uzbek. In many cases, vowels that are rounded in Azerbaijani are not rounded in Afshar. An example of this is (meaning \"100\"), which is in standard Azerbaijani.\n\n"}
{"id": "8022030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8022030", "title": "American Pie Council", "text": "American Pie Council\n\nThe American Pie Council (APC) is an organization committed to \"preserving America's pie heritage and promoting America's love affair with pies\". As America's only purely pie-focused national organization, the APC combines aspects of a hobby club, professional association, trade group, and pro-pie interest group.\n\nThe Council offers both personal and commercial memberships which allow individual participants to have discussions and swap recipes with fellow pie lovers, while providing commercial members with business networking opportunities and promotional support. The APC has run the APC National Pie Championships since 1995. The event is usually held in Celebration, Florida. The competition is open to amateur, professional, and commercial bakers. As an example of typical categories, the categories at the 2014 competition were:\n\nThe APC also sponsors or promotes other pie-centric events throughout the year. The APC council also conducts surveys of pie consumption. APC research has shown that Apple is Americans' favorite pie, that 59% of Americans consider pie an appropriate late-night snack, and that 20% of Americans have eaten an entire pie.\n\nNational Pie Day, which is held annually on January 23, is now sponsored by the APC since 1986. The holiday was started in the mid-1970s by Boulder, Colorado teacher Charlie Papazian after he declared his birthday to be National Pie Day. This should not be confused with Pi Day which the U.S. Congress recognizes as March 14.\n\nIn 2014, the APC partnered with Paramount Pictures in promoting the romantic thriller film \"Labor Day\" in conjunction with National Pie Day. (A pie-making scene features prominently in the film, and the film's general release was within a few days of National Pie Day.)\n\nThe APC distributed a promotional poster to pie shops and bakeries featuring images of the film's stars Kate Winslet, Josh Brolin, and Gattlin Griffith in the pie-making scene. \"New York Post\" writer Lou Lumenick noted dryly that the scene was an \"eccentric choice for a promotion\" since Brolin's character is an escaped murderer and \"before they all make pies together, he abducts them from a supermarket and ties both of them up... A bond does emerge between Brolin and his hostages before he surrenders to police. But still.\" The poster is captioned in part \"It makes the time we spend together, just a little sweeter. Pie. Grab a slice of life.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37825690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37825690", "title": "Armenian religion in Cyprus", "text": "Armenian religion in Cyprus\n\nLike most communities of the Armenian Diaspora, the Armenian-Cypriot community is predominantly Armenian Apostolic (about 95%). Some 5% belong either to the Armenian Evangelical Church, the Armenian Catholic Church, the Latin Church, the Greek Orthodox Church, the Anglican Church, the Plymouth Brethren Church, the Seventh-day Adventist Church or they are Jehovah's Witnesses; of this 5%, historically the most significant groups have been Armenian Evangelicals, who in the 1940s and 1950s comprised about 10% of the Armenian-Cypriot community, and Armenian-Catholics, who have been on the island since the time of the Crusades.\n\nThe Armenian Prelature of Cyprus (\"Առաջնորդարան Հայոց Կիպրոսի\") was established in 973 by Catholicos Khatchig I and ever since it has maintained a continuous presence on the island. In the years that followed, some of its Prelates participated in important church synods, such as Tateos (who participated in the Council of Hromkla in 1179), Nigoghaos (who participated in the Synod of Sis in 1307) and Krikor (who participated in a conference of Greek Orthodox Bishops in Cyprus in 1340). The antiquity of the Armenian Church in Cyprus was confirmed by a bull of Pope Leo X, which was issued in 1519 after multiple discords, according to which the Armenian Prelate would be senior to and take precedence over the Maronite, Jacobite and Coptic Prelates.\n\nHistorically, the Prelature has been under the jurisdiction of the Catholicosate of the Great House of Cilicia, while today it is the oldest \"theme\" that falls under its jurisdiction. In the past, for various reasons, it was at times under the Armenian Patriarchate of Jerusalem (1775–1799, 1812–1837, 1848–1861, 1865–1877, 1888–1897, 1898–1908), the Armenian Patriarchate of Constantinople (1799–1812, 1861–1864, 1877–1888, 1897–1898, 1908–1921), even the Catholicosate of Etchmiadzin (1864–1865). Cyprus was the place of refuge for two exile Patriarchs of Constantinople, Archbishop Tavit Areveltsi (1644-1648) and Senior Archimandrite Krikor Basmadjian (1773-1775). The current Prelate, a Catholicosal Vicar General, is as of 2014 Archbishop Nareg Alemezian. The parish priest in Nicosia is Fr. Momik Habeshian (since 2000), while the parish priest in Larnaca and Limassol is Fr. Mashdots Ashkarian (since 1992).\n\nFor centuries, the Prelature building was located within the Armenian compound in Victoria street in walled Nicosia; when that area was taken over by Turkish-Cypriot extremists in 1963–1964, the Prelature was temporarily housed in Aram Ouzounian street (1964–1968) and, later on, in Kyriakos Matsis street in Ayios Dhometios (1968–1984). Thanks to the efforts of Bishop Zareh Aznavorian and with financial aid from the Evangelical Church of Westphalia, the new Prelature building was erected in 1983, next to the Virgin Mary church and the Nareg school in Nicosia, by architects Athos Dikaios & Alkis Dikaios; it was officially inaugurated on 4 March 1984, during the pastoral visit of Catholicos Karekin II. By initiative of Archbishop Varoujan Hergelian, in 1998 the basement of the building was renovated and the “Vahram Utidjian” Hall was formed; previously a store room, it became a reality from the proceeds of the auction in 1994 of the art collection that Vahram Utidjian had donated to the Prelature in 1954. It was inaugurated on 3 February 1999 by Catholicos Aram I; numerous charity, communal and cultural events take place there. The Prelature’s consistory houses a collection of ecclesiastical relics, some of which were previously in the old Virgin Mary church or the Magaravank.\n\nThe current Charter of the Prelature, first drafted in 1945 and ratified in 1950, consists of 102 articles and, in its present form, applies as of 3 September 2010. The administration is exercised by the Armenian Ethnarchy (\"Ազգային Իշխանութիւն\") through the Diocesan Council [Թեմական Ժողով (\"Temagan Joghov\"), consisting of the Prelate, two priests and twelve elected lay persons - 7 for Nicosia, 3 for Larnaca, 1 for Limassol and 1 for Famagusta] and the Administrative Council [Վարչական Ժողով (\"Varchagan Joghov\"), presided by the Prelate and consisting of seven lay persons appointed by the Temagan], currently chaired by Sebouh Tavitian (as of 2007) and John Guevherian (as of 2011), respectively. As of 1998, the elected Representative is \"ex officio\" a member of the Diocesan Council. There are also the local parish committees (\"թաղական հոգաբարձութիւններ\", one in Nicosia, one in Larnaca and one in Limassol), the committee for Christian instruction (\"Քրիստոնէական դաստիարակութեան յանձնախումբ\") and the Ladies’ committee (\"Տիկնանց յանձնախումբ\"). Under the committee for Christian instruction are the Sunday schools (\"Կիրակնօրեայ վարժարաններ\") and the youth committee (\"երիտասարդական յանձնախումբ\").\n\nAccording to the Decision of the Council of Ministers 66.589/19–12–2007, the Armenian Prelature of Cyprus receives an annual grant of €59.800 by the Republic of Cyprus; the Republic also pays the salaries of the Prelature's clergy and covers their medical and health care (Decision of the Council of Ministers 48.166/22–07–1998). The same arrangements apply for the Maronite Archbishopric of Cyprus and the Latin Vicariate of Cyprus (the latter, however, receives an annual grant of €51.260).\n\nBelow is the list of Prelates of the Armenian Prelature of Cyprus, according to available information. Unfortunately, there are some gaps:\n\nThe first Armenian Evangelicals in Cyprus came after the arrival of the British in July 1878. As they were not committed, and very few, they quickly became associated with the \"Mother Church\" (Armenian Apostolic Church), such as Apisoghom Utidjian, the official state documents translator - and the son of Stepan Utidjian, one the original founders of the Armenian Evangelical Church -, who served as Chairman of the Nicosia parish council for 30 years. With the influx of more Protestants, Armenian Evangelicals became affiliated with the Reformed Presbyterian Church as early as 1887. Although the main centres were Nicosia and Larnaca, gatherings were occasionally held in Limassol, Famagusta and Amiandos. In Larnaca, gatherings were held at the Reformed Presbyterian Mission church (built in 1892 and re-built in 1901–1902). In Nicosia, gatherings were initially held at the Reformed Presbyterian Mission church (built in 1906–1907), until Armenian Evangelicals built their own church in 1946–1947 behind the old American Academy building, near the Arab Ahmed Pasha mosque; its foundation stone was laid on 28 July 1946 by pastor Yohanna der Megerditchian, who dedicated it on 1 June 1947. The building was renovated in 1955, while a kitchen was added in 1959.\n\nIn 1933, the newly formed Cyprus Synod of the Reformed Presbyterian Church divided its congregations into Armenian and Greek councils. Armenian Evangelicals were granted provisional autonomy from the Reformed Presbyterian Mission in 1954, which was formalised in 1962. In Larnaca, as Armenian Evangelicals dwindled after the inter-communal troubles of 1963–1964, services were no longer held; in Nicosia, the Armenian Evangelical church was taken over by Turkish-Cypriot extremists during the 1963–1964 inter-communal troubles and so services were then held at the American Academy chapel (built in 1955) until 1973.\n\nAfter nearly 30 years of inactivity, by initiative of Nevart Kassouni-Panayiotides and Lydia Gulesserian (†) and with the help of Hrayr Jebejian, Executive Secretary of the Bible Society in the Gulf, Armenian Evangelicals were re-organised at the Greek Evangelical church in Larnaca in 2002. Since 2005, when Hrayr Jebejian moved to Cyprus, services are held every few months at the Greek Evangelical church in Nicosia. Also, the Armenian Evangelical Church organizes a few lectures in Nicosia. The following is a list of the Armenian Reverends and preachers in charge of the Armenian Evangelical community of Cyprus.\n\nArmenian-Catholics first came to the island during the Frankish Era from the nearby Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia. It is unclear whether they had their own structure during the Latin Era or if they were under the Latin Church of Cyprus, as has been the case since the Ottoman Era. What we do know is that Armenian-Catholics used Saint Lazarus' basilica in Larnaca, the Holy Cross church in Nicosia (probably Arablar Djami/Stavros tou Missirikou) and the Virgin Mary of the Green (de Vert) in Famagusta, which was built between 1311-1317. Armenian-Catholic monks and nuns also served at the Premonstratensian Bellapais Abbey and the Benedictine Notre Dame de Tyre convent in Nicosia, respectively. The only Armenian-Catholic Bishops' names which have survived until today are George Noreghes, appointed by Latin Archbishop of Cyprus Elias de Nabineaux circa 1340, and the Dominican Julio or Julian Stavriano, who served as Bishop of the Armenians (1561-1567) and later became Bishop of the Maronites (1567-1570); he started as Armenian Orthodox and later he embraced Catholicism. The latter's flock included about 1.000 Armenians and he used Saint Sergius' church in Famagusta.\n\nDuring the Ottoman Era, there was a very limited conversion of Armenian Orthodox to Catholicism, mainly due to the proselytising activities of the Franciscan mission in Nicosia and Larnaca, especially during the 17th and 18th centuries; however, these must have been temporary apostasies and their number never exceeded 50 at any given time. In 1794 the small (and perhaps newly formed) Armenian Catholic community of Larnaca was granted some holy chalices from the auction of the belongings of the old Capuchin monastery of the town.\n\nIt was during the British Era that the Armenian-Catholic community increased in number, due to the arrival of a large number of refugees from the Armenian Genocide (1915-1923). In 1931, there were about 200 Armenian-Catholics in Cyprus, rather poor, and many of them were middle-aged. Most of them became attached to the Latin places of worship, especially the Holy Cross cathedral in Nicosia and Saint Joseph's convent in Larnaca; between 1921-1923, the latter housed a small Armenian-Catholic school, run by Abbot Jean Kouyoumdjian - who served at the convent between 1921-1928. There was also another Armenian-Catholic cleric, Archimandrite Arsène Khorassandjian, who also served in Larnaca (and, at times, at the Holy Cross cathedral and the Terra Santa school in Nicosia), between 1931-1959.\n\nIn 1960, there were less than 100 Armenian-Catholics. However, their number decreased in the following years, due to emigration to other countries and assimilation with the Armenian-Cypriot, the Latin-Cypriot and/or the Greek-Cypriot community. However, due to the influx of Lebanese-Armenians to Cyprus since the mid-1970s, there has been a small increase in the number of Armenian-Catholics on the island. Currently, local Armenian-Catholics are less than 20, in addition to about 30 foreign Armenians.\n\nThere are five Armenian churches, two in the capital Nicosia (one under Turkish occupation since 1964) and one in each Larnaca, Limassol and Famagusta; the latter has been occupied by the Turks since 1964. Additionally, there are three Armenian chapels in the vicinity of Nicosia and one within the Magaravank complex, the latter under also under Turkish occupation since 1974. There is also an Armenian Evangelical church in Nicosia (under Turkish occupation since 1964). Finally, there is the renowned Magaravank, under Turkish occupation since 1974.\n\nThe building of the Armenian Prelature of Cyprus and the Virgin Mary [Սուրբ Աստուածածին (Sourp Asdvadzadzin)] cathedral are located in Armenia street in Strovolos, Nicosia. The Prelature building was built between 1983–1984 by architects Athos Dikaios & Alkis Dikaios and was inaugurated on 4 March 1984 by Catholicos Karekin II of Cilicia. The Prelature's consistory houses a collection of ecclesiastical relics, some of which were previously kept at the Magaravank or the old Virgin Mary church; the relics are kept at a display case, donated in 1986 by brothers Garabed and Nshan Arakchindjian. The Prelature's basement is the “Vahram Utidjian” Hall, which was inaugurated on 3 February 1999 by Catholicos Aram I. The hall, previously a store room, became a reality thanks to the initiative of Archbishop Varoujan Hergelian, using proceeds from the auction in 1994 of the art collection that Vahram Utidjian had donated to the Prelature in 1954. It is one of the main venues for events of the Armenian-Cypriot community. Together with the Virgin Mary church and the Nareg Armenian School, the land was granted \"in trust\" to the community on 16 December 1966 by the government; on 10 December 1979, Strovolos Improvement Board decided to rename the road in front of the plot of land from “Cyclops street” to “Armenia street”, as a gesture of solidarity to the Armenian people. A freehold title deed on the land was granted on 31 March 1983.\n\nThe Virgin Mary cathedral was built between 1976–1981 by architects Iacovos & Andreas Philippou, with financial help from the World Council of Churches, the Evangelical Church of Westphalia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Holy Archbishopric of Cyprus and the faithful. Located next to Nareg Elementary School, its foundation stone was laid on 25 September 1976 by Archbishop Makarios III and Bishop Nerses Pakhdigian. On 16 April 1978, the Co-adjutor Catholicos Karekin II blessed the 16 columns of the church, while the inauguration and consecration of the cathedral took place on 22 November 1981 by Catholicos Khoren I and his Co-adjutor Karekin II. It is the only church in Cyprus built in a traditional Armenian style, with a central octagonal dome and a smaller dome for the bell. The church was renovated externally in late 2005 in memory of the Tutundjian family, killed in the Helios air accident, while the belfry was also repaired that year, in memory of archpriest der Vazken Sandrouni. Liturgies are held every Sunday. The church celebrates on the nearest Sunday to 21 November, feast day of the Presentation of Mary. The parish priest (as of 2000) is Fr. Momik Habeshian.\n\nThe church was renovated internally in mid–2008. Many of its icons are the work of Lebanese-Armenian painter Zohrab Keshishian. It is interesting that just below the holy altar, there is a khachkar (cross-stone) donated by the Holy See of Etchmiadzin. On top of the church's entrance there is a marble inscription in Armenian reading: \n\nOn the two columns facing the entrance are the following two aluminium commemorative plaques in Armenian:\n\nՆորոգեցաւ զանգակատունս ի յիշատակ Տ. Վազգէն Ա. Քհնյ. Սանտրունիի 2005 \"(This belltower was renovated in memory of Archpriest Der Vazken Sandrouni 2005)\"\n\nՆորոգեցաւ եկեղեցիս ի յիշատակ Յակոբ, Հիլտա, Արա, Պարէթ Թիւթիւնճեանի 2005 \"(This church was renovated in memory of Hagop, Hilda, Ara, Baret Tutundjian 2005)\"\n\nOn the side of the church there is a marble inscription in Greek reading: \n\nIn front of the church's entrance is a white marble khachkar (cross-stone) dedicated to the eternal friendship of Armenians and Greeks in Cyprus; it was unveiled on 21 October 2001 by Presidential Commissioner Manolis Christophides. To the side of the church's entrance is the bronze bust of Archbishop Zareh Aznavorian; it was unveiled on 1 May 2005 by Italian-Armenian donator Aleco Bezigian. Finally, in the coutryard of the church is the white marble Armenian Genocide Monument; it was unveiled on 24 April 1991 by Senior Archimandrite Yeghishe Madjikian. In 2000, two white marble ossuaries were built in front of it, as well as five small sandstone khachkar-like columns.\n\nIn the old Armenian cemetery, near the Ledra Palace hotel (Markos Drakos Avenue), there is the Saint Paul [Սուրբ Պօղոս (Sourp Boghos)] chapel, built in 1892 by donation of Boghos Odadjian. Left unused since the 1963–1964 intercommunal troubles, the chapel and the cemetery fell into disuse. It was restored between 2008–2009, together with the rest of the cemetery, by initiative of Representative Vartkes Mahdessian and the Armenian Ethnarchy of Cyprus. A Liturgy is held once a year since 2010. On top of the chapel's entrance there is a marble inscription in Armenian reading: \n\nBehind it, from inside the chapel, there is another marble inscription in Armenian reading: \n\nIn the Armenian cemetery near Ayios Dhometios (Gregoris Afxentiou Avenue) there is the Holy Resurrection [Սուրբ Յարութիւն (Sourp Haroutiun)] chapel, built in 1938 by donation of Haroutiun Bohdjalian and consecrated in 1949 by Bishop Ghevont Chebeyan. Left unused since the 1974 Turkish invasion, it was renovated in 2010. No Liturgies have been held since 1974. On top of its entrance, there is a marble inscription in Armenian reading: \n\nOn the lower part of the southern wall, there is the following well-known inscription in Armenian:\n\nՄահուամբ զմահ կոխեաց եւ Յարութեամբն Իւրով մեզ զկեանս պարգեւեաց \"(He trampled death with death and through His Resurrection He granted us life)\"\n\nFinally, the Holy Saviour of All [Սուրբ Ամենափրկիչ (Sourp Amenapergitch)] chapel was built between 1995–1996 by architects Athos & Alkis Dikaios and by donation of Aram and Bedros Kalaydjian. Located in Corinth street in Strovolos, Nicosia, within the premises of the Kalaydjian Rest Home for the Elderly, its foundation stone was laid on 15 December 1995 by the Catholicos of the Great House of Cilicia, Aram I, who inaugurated it on 16 February 1997. Matins are held regularly. On top of its entrance, there is a marble inscription in Armenian reading: \n\nՍուրբ Ամենափրկիչ մատուռ (\"Holy Saviour of All chapel\")\n\nThe church of Saint Stephen [Սուրբ Ստեփանոս (Sourp Stepanos)], in Armenian church street in the city centre, was originally built as a chapel by the Armenian refugees who came to Larnaca after the Adana massacre in 1909. It was built as a replica of Adana's main church and was dedicated to Adana's patron Saint, Saint Stephen. However, as most of the refugees returned, the chapel was left unfinished. After a fund-raising which started on 24 October 1912, the small chapel became a church, whose construction finished on 1 April 1913.\n\nDedicated to the memory of the martyrs of the Adana massacre, it is the first monument in the entire Armenian Diaspora in memory of the Armenian massacres in the Ottoman Empire. On top of the church's façade there is a commemorative composition featuring the Armenian ethnarch Haig, the last King of the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia, Levon V, a scroll held by a hand - representing the Ten Commandments - and the four symbols of the Four Evangelists; around King Levon V, there is a commemorative inscription in Armenian: \n\nԻ Յիշատակ Կիլիկիոյ Նահատակաց – 1 Ապր. 1909 \"(In Memory of the Cilician Martyrs – 1 April 1909)\" \n\nwhile under the composition and above the entrance it reads: \n\nՀայկական Մատուռ \"(Armenian Chapel)\"\n\nThe church was inaugurated on 20 May 1914 by Senior Archimandrite Serovpe Samvelian and was consecrated on 30 June 1918 by Archbishop Taniel Hagopian. Until the early 1940s, there was a small octagonal dome on top of the church. The church was renovated between 1956–1957 and again in 1998. Liturgies are held every other Sunday, in turns with Saint George's church in Limassol. The church celebrates on 25 December, feast day of Saint Stephen. The parish priest (as of 1992) is Fr. Mashdots Ashkarian. To the left and the right of the entrance, there are two marble inscriptions in Armenian: to the left, the inscription reads: \n\nԿառուցաւ մատուռս Յամի Տեառն 1909 \"(This chapel was constructed in the Lord's Year 1909)\"\n\nand to the right, the inscription reads: \n\nՆորոգեցաւ մատուռս Յամի Տեառն 1998 \"(This chapel was renovated in the Lord's Year 1998)\" \n\nMany of the church's icons are the work of Lebanese-Armenian painter Fr. Hovsep Ashkarian.\n\nThe church of Saint George [Սուրբ Գէորգ (Sourp Kevork)] is built in Vassilis Michaelides street near the city centre, on land donated circa 1935 by Satenig Soultanian, in memory of her father-in-law, Kevork. As the small Armenian community of Limassol could not afford to build a church, a theatre company was formed under Ardashes Bastadjian, giving performances in Nicosia, Larnaca and Limassol. Together with a contribution by the Armenian Prelature of Cyprus and Stepan Kavafian, the church was built between 1939–1940, while its consecration took place on 11 April 1948 by Bishop Ghevont Chebeyian. The church was renovated between 1975–1976, in 2007 and again in 2015, while in 1989 its bell was made electronic by donation of brothers Garabed and Nshan Arakchindjian. Liturgies are held every other Sunday, in turns with Saint Stephen's church in Larnaca. The church celebrates on the last Sunday of September, feast day of Saint George. The parish priest (as of 1992) is Fr. Mashdots Ashkarian. During the 1975–1976 renovation, the belltower was placed on top of the entrance, while an iron Armenian cross was added during the 2006 renovation, with the inscription in Armenian reading: \n\nՍուրբ Գէորգ եկեղեցի \"(Saint George's church)\"\n\nOn the lower part of the wall outside the repository, where the belltower used to be, there is another marble inscription in Armenian. It reads:\n\nՆուիրեցաւ ելեկտրական կոչնակս արդեամբ եւ ծախիւք եղբարցն Կարապետ եւ Նշան Արագչինճեանոց Տիգրանակերտցի ի թուին Քս.ի 1989-ի \"(This electric rattle was offered by commission and expenses of brothers Garabed and Nshan Arakchindjian from Dikranagerd in the year of Christ 1989)\"\n\nIn front of the church is a dark brown tuff stone khachkar (cross-stone), donated by the Arakelyan family; it was unveiled by Archbishop Varoujan Hergelian on 28 September 2008. Next to the church is the Limassol Armenian school.\n\nThe old Virgin Mary [Սուրբ Աստուածածին (Sourp Asdvadzadzin)] cathedral in Victoria street, currently in the Turkish-occupied part of the walled city of Nicosia near Paphos Gate, also known as Notre Dame de Tyre or Tortosa, was originally a Benedictine/Carthusian Abbey built between 1308–1310, on the site of an older church which had originally been built in 1116 and was destroyed by an earthquake in 1303, where Armenian-Catholic nuns served. Sometime before 1504 it passed into the hands of the Armenian Prelature of Cyprus and it used to be the centre of the Armenian community of Cyprus until it was captured, along with the rest of the Armenian quarter, by Turkish-Cypriot extremists during the 1963–1964 Turkish-Cypriot mutiny and occupied by Turkey during the 1974 Turkish invasion. After the Osmanian occupation of Cyprus in 1570, it was temporarily used as a salt store, until it was returned to the Armenian community by a firman in May 1571; the Armenian ownership of the church was further confirmed by another firman in May 1614. During the period of the Armenian Genocide, many persecuted Armenian refugees sought shelter on its verandah. It was located next to the old Prelature building, the Melikian-Ouzounian school, the Armenian Genocide monument and the Melikian family mansion. \n\nDuring the centuries it served the small yet prosperous Armenian community of Nicosia, the church underwent various modifications: in 1688 it was renovated, in 1788 the baptistery was constructed, in 1858 the arches of the northern verandah were built, in 1860 the belfry was constructed - amongst the first in Ottoman Cyprus, a donation by Hapetig Nevrouzian of Constantinople -, in 1884 it was restored, in 1904 the roof was re-built and a renovation took place, in 1945 the upper tier was erected for the choir (by donation of Aram Ouzounian), in 1950 the belfry was restored, while in 1960-1961 the Antiquities Department installed a new floor - after removing the mediaeval tombstones that were previously covered by the carpets. The church celebrated on the nearest Sunday to 21 November, feast day of the Presentation of Mary.\n\nAfter its illegal occupation in January 1964, it was used as barracks for the Turkish-Cypriot militia, while after its illegal occupation by the Turkish army in July 1974 it continued to be used as barracks for Turkish soldiers, until it suffered further damages by an earthquake in 1998. The site was abandoned and illegal Anatolian settlers inhabited the place until late 2006. \n\nIn 2005, the UNDP carried out a preliminary study for the potential restoration of the entire compound, while in 2007 it conducted a feasibility study. Heavily desecrated, its restoration finally started in October 2009 by initiative of the Armenian Ethnarchy of Cyprus and the Armenian Representative, Vartkes Mahdessian. The works were carried out by the UNDP-ACT, with partial funding from USAID, and were completed in November 2012.\n\nThere was also a small Armenian Evangelical church, located in Mahmoud Pasha street, in the Turkish-occupied part of the walled city of Nicosia - behind the old American Academy building, near the Arab Ahmed mosque. Prior to its erection, Armenian Evangelicals used to worship God at the Reformed Presbyterian church on Apostolos Varnavas street, opposite the old Powerhouse and behind the building of the Holy Archbishopric of Cyprus. The church - a vision already since the early 1930s - was eventually built thanks to the initiative of pastor Yohanna Der Megerditchian, with the financial contribution of the Reformed Presbyterian Church and the Armenian Evangelical faithful; its architect was Dickran H. Davidian. Its foundation stone was laid on 28 July 1946 by pastor Yohanna der Megerditchian, who dedicated it on 1 July 1947. On the lower part of the right wall to the side of the entrance there is the following inscription in Armenian:\n\nԷփեսացիս Բ:20 - 28 Յուլիս 1946 Նիկոսիա \"(Ephesians 2:20–28 July 1946 Nicosia)\"\n\nThe church was renovated in 1955, the year when the border fence and the gate were erected; in 1959 a kitchen was added. Unfortunately, during the 1963–1964 intercommunal troubles, the church was taken over by extremist Turkish-Cypriots. Between 1964-1974, the church and the surrounding buildings were used as a school for some time and then as the main military headquarters (sancaktarlık). After that, for a long time the buildings remained empty. Later on, the church was used as a Turkish folk music centre (1987-1997) and as Handicrafts Co-Operative (1997-2011); as of 2011 it is used as a music centre. As with the old Virgin Mary church, no Services have been held since 1964.\n\nThe church of Ganchvor [Սուրբ Աստուածածին Կանչուոր (Sourp Asdvadzadzin Ganchvor) or Virgin Mary the Caller] was probably built in 1346 by Armenian refugees who escaped the Mameluke attacks against Ayas of Cilicia. It is located between Kışla and Server Somuncuoğlu streets, in the north-western part of the walled city of Famagusta (next to the Carmelite church) and it is believed it was a part of an important monastic, cultural and theological establishment, at which Saint Nerses of Lambron is said to have studied, and whose foundations survived until the mid-20th century. A scriptorium used to operate in this monastery, manuscripts of which survive at the Armenian Saint James’ Monastery in Jerusalem.\nIt is unknown when exactly it ceased being used, however it possibly stopped operating already since the mid-Venetian Era. Up until at least 1862, there was a small bell-tower. Unused for more than three and a half centuries, because of Ottoman restrictions, in 1907 it was declared an ancient monument, based on Colonial Antiquities’ Law IV/1905. In the same year, it was repaired by the Antiquities Department, as it was in 1931. In 1932 it was restored, also by the Antiquities Department, which significantly repaired it between 1937-1944 (under the care of Theophilus Mogabgab, Director of Antiquities for Famagusta District), after it was leased to the Armenian Prelature of Cyprus on 7 March 1936, for a period of 99 years - which was achieved after the intervention of Co-adjutor Catholicos of Cilicia, Papken Gulesserian, who had visited the church in 1934, and Archbishop Bedros Saradjian.\n\nThe first Liturgy and its re-consecration were held on 14 January 1945 by Archimandrite Krikor Bahlavouni (also known as “Topal Vartabed”). On 8 March 1957 it was partially burnt by Turkish-Cypriots, but continued to be used as a church until 1962; since then, the Famagusta Armenian community used the church of Ayia Paraskevi, which the Holy Archbishopric of Cyprus granted. The church celebrated on the nearest Sunday to 15 August, feast day of the Dormition of the Mother of God. In January 1964 it was taken by extremist Turkish-Cypriots during the 1963–1964 Turkish-Cypriot mutiny and was occupied by Turkey in August 1974 during the 1974 Turkish invasion. Between 1964-1974, it was used as a residence, despite attempts by the Swedish Contingent (SWEDCON) of UNFICYP and others to make other arrangements for the residing family. During the 1974-2005 period, the year in which it was declassified from a “military area”, it was used as a stable and a store room. Until 1974, there were beautiful frescoes on the walls, which today have disappeared. It has been left at the mercy of nature and vandals and it is in need of repairs. No Liturgies have been held since 1964.\n\nThe Armenian Orthodox church of the Virgin Mary of Ganchvor should not be confused with the Armenian-Catholic church of Saint Mary the Green (de Vert), whose location is unknown.\n\nOf great importance is Saint Makarios’ [Սուրբ Մակար (Sourp Magar)] monastery [Մակարավանք (Magaravank), also known as Αρμενομονάστηρο (Greek), Ermeni Manastırı (Turkish) and Armenian Monastery (English)], located within Plataniotissa forest near Turkish-occupied Halevga, on the Pentadhaktylos mountain range - at a height of 530 m. Its vast land (about 8.500 donums), extending up to the coast, included around 30.000 olive and carob trees, whose exploitation was the main source of income for the Armenian Prelature of Cyprus until 1974. The monastery was originally established by Copts circa 1000 AD on a location at which Saint Macarius is said to have been an ascetic; his icon was believed to be miraculous and, until the early 20th century, the Armenian residents of the region - some of whom had found shelter after the Hamidian massacres (1894-1896) - believed they could hear the Saint galloping with his horse at night.\n\nThe monastery passed into the hands of the Armenians sometime before 1425. During the Latin Era, its monks were known for their strict diet, while during the Ottoman Era it was known as the Blue Monastery (Armenian: Կապոյտ Վանք/Կէօք Մանասթըր, Turkish: Mavi Manastır, Greek: Κυανούν Μοναστήρι), from the colour of its doors and window blinds. For centuries, it had been a popular place of pilgrimage for Armenians and non-Armenians alike, a way station for pilgrims en route to the Holy Land, as well as a place of recuperation and rest for Armenian Catholicoi and clergymen from Cilicia and Jerusalem (it was the favourite holiday resort for Catholicos Sahag II, who used to ride his horse around its vast lands). Amongst its guests was Abbot Mekhitar of Sebaste, who spent some time there in 1695 on his way to Rome, as well as Hovsep Shishmanian (Dzerents), who - inspired by the visible outline of the distant Taurus mountains, in 1875 - he wrote the historical novel Toros Levoni, set in the times of the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia; according to tradition, in 1140 prince Thoros II took refuge here to escape from his persecutors.\n\nThe monastery won the favour of the Ottomans: a 1642 firman exempted Armenians from paying taxes for the monastery, whose terms were renewed in 1660 and 1701. The 1650-1750 period is considered its “golden century”, as huge areas of land were purchased or given to the monastery. A large-scale renovation took place between 1734–1735 by Archimandrite Haroutiun, while between 1811–1818 Symeon Agha of Crimea financed a complete restoration and built the present chapel of the monastery. The initial chapel, at the centre of the monastic compound, was destroyed by earthquakes and natural conditions; the present chapel, next to the original one, was inaugurated on 3 January 1814. Renovations and restorations took place also in 1866 (by commission of the Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople Boghos Taktakian), in 1926 (by commission of Dickran Ouzounian, Ashod Aslanian and Garo Balian), in 1929 (by commission of Boghos and Anna Magarian), between 1947–1949 (by commission of Hovhannes and Mary Shakarian) and again in 1973 (by initiative of the Armenian Ethnarchy of Cyprus). The road linking the monastery to Halevga was constructed in 1926-1927, by commission of Agha Garabed Melkonian, while the square, to the east of the monastery, was constructed in 1933 by commission of Catholicos Sahag II.\n\nFor centuries, the monastery had been an important spiritual centre. Until the early 20th century, a large number of exquisite and priceless manuscripts written at the monastery’s scriptorium between 1202-1740, as well as numerous valuable ecclesiastical vessels, were kept here, before they were moved to Nicosia for safe-keeping; since 1947, 56 illuminated manuscripts are at the Catholicosate of Cilicia in Antelias. It appears that the last monks lived permanently until about 1800. There are two monuments in the vicinity: a commemorative stone column at the square of the monastery, unveiled on 8 September 1933 by Catholicos Sahag II, and a mortar obelisk dedicated to Abbot Mekhitar, on top of the namesake hill to the north-west of the monastery, unveiled on 2 August 1931 by Catholicos Sahag II and Archbishop Bedros Saradjian.\n\nBetween 1897-1904, Vahan Kurkjian’s (Pagouran) National Educational Orphanage had its summer sessions here, as did - for the whole year - a small Armenian school for the children of the region until 1914. The area was used as a summer resort and camping site for Armenian scouts and students. In 1948 the Archangels’ fountain was erected, by commission of Kapriel and Arshalouis Kasbarian, which was officially blessed by Bishop Ghevont Chebeyan on 2 May 1948. In 1949 Sarkis and Sourpig Marashlian funded the water distribution network, the turbine and the electric generator. The monastery’s chapel was a favourite place for Christenings. A new baptistery was constructed in 1968 by Karnig Kouyoumdjian. Until 1974, a large number of Armenian-Cypriot families rented rooms in the monastery during the weekends and holidays. On May’s first weekend, Saint Macarius’ feast, many Armenian-Cypriots would visit Magaravank and some of them would rent rooms and help in the preparation of the harissa (chicken porridge). On Sunday, a Liturgy was held at the chapel of the monastery and harissa was served afterwards.\n\nUnfortunately, the monastery was captured by the Turkish troops in August 1974, who later used it to house illegal settlers from Anatolia and, in the 1980s, to house military officers. Left at the mercy of vandals and nature, it has been desecrated and today is dilapidated and in a pitiful condition. Between 1998-1999 and again in 2005, the occupying regime intended to turn it into a hotel; after co-ordinated reactions, this unholy plan was averted. In December 2006 and in July 2008, it was visited by Hrant Dink and Catholicos Aram I, respectively. By initiative of Representative Vartkes Mahdessian and the Armenian Ethnarchy, on 6 May 2007 the first visit-pilgrimage took place there after 33 years; it was repeated on 10 May 2009, 9 May 2010, 8 May 2011, 13 May 2012 and 19 May 2013, with the participation of a large number of Armenian-Cypriots and other Armenians, some of whom came from abroad.\n\nOn top of the entrance gate of the monastery there used to be the following commemorative marble inscription in Armenian:\n\nԻ յիշատակ ազգ. մեծ բարերար Տիար Կարապետ Մելգոնեանի որ ետ շինել զխճուղի Ս. Մակարայ Վանուց 1926 \"(In memory of great national benefactor Mr Garabed Melkonian who re-built the macadam road of Sourp Magar's monastery 1926)\"\n\nBetween the entrance and the chapel, on a wall to the left and above the monastery's turbine and generator, there is the following commemorative marble inscription in Armenian, the only one surviving within the monastery premises, even though it has been partially defaced:\n\nՇինեցաւ կազմածք ջրաբաշխութեան եւ լուսաւորութեան Ս. Մակարայ Վանուց սրտաբուխ նուիրատուութեամբ Տէր եւ Տիկին Սարգիս Մարաշլեանի 1949 \"(The equipments of water and light distribution of Saint Macarius' monastery were built by the generous donation of Mr and Mrs Sarkis Marashlian 1949)\"\n\nIn front of the iron gate to the chapel there used to be the following commemorative marble inscriptions in Armenian:\n\nՇինեցաւ զանգակատուն եւ յատակ մատրանս՝ արդեամբ Տիար Կարօ Պալեանի 1926 \"(The belfry and floor of the chapel were built by commission of Mr Garo Balian 1926)\"\n\nՇինեցաւ դասս, գաւիթ մատրանս, արդեամբ Տիար Տիգրան Ուզունեանի 1926 \"(The soleas\" [and] \"narthex of this chapel were built by commission of Mr Dickran Ouzounian 1926)\"\n\nIn front of the chapel's door there used to be the following commemorative marble inscription in Armenian:\n\nՎերանորոգեցաւ մատուռս սրտաբուխ ծախիւք Տէր եւ Տիկին Յովհաննէս Շաքարեանի ի յիշատակ ննջեցելոց իւրեանց 1947 \"(This chapel was restored by the generous expenses of Mr and Mrs Hovhannes Shakarian in memory of their deceased 1947)\"\n\nOn top of the chapel's door there used to be the following commemorative marble inscriptions in Armenian:\n\nՎերստին նորոգեցի Սուրբ Անապատս Մեծի Մակարայ Ճգնաւորին ձեռամբ Յարութիւն Վարդապետի: Ի թուին ՌՃՁԴ 1735 \"[The Holy Hermitage of Macarius the Great was renovated again by the hands of Archimandrite Haroutiun. In the year 1184\" (according to the old Armenian dating system) \"1735\" (according to the global dating system)]\n\nԱյց արար մէզ Տէրն Բարձանց, Աստուած եւ Հայրն Ողորմութեանց, ետ նորոգել Վանքս ի հիմանց, յըստորակաց Փրկչին ամաց: Հոգաբարձութբ. ազնիւ Սիմէօն Աղային 1814 Յունվ. 3: \"(The Lord of the Heavens visited us, the God and Father of Mercy, this Monastery was renovated again from its foundations, by His subordinate in the Saviour's years. Under the direction of the noble Symeon Agha, 3 January 1814.)\"\n\nIn front of the repository there used to be the following commemorative marble inscriptions in Armenian:\n\nՏիար Աշոտ Ասլանեան մասնակցեցաւ աւանդատան նորոգման 1926 \"(Mr Ashod Aslanian participated in the renovation of the repository 1926)\"\n\nUnder the baptistery there used to be the following commemorative marble inscription in Armenian:\n\nՇինեցւ աւազանս մկրտութեան արդեամբ եւ ծախիւք Գառնիկ Մկրտիչ Գույոումճեանի ի յիշատակ ննջեցելոց իւրոյ 1968 \"(This baptistery was built by commission and expenses of Karnig Mgrditch Kouyoumdjian in memory of his deceased 1968)\"\n\nIn front of the dorter there used to be the following commemorative marble inscription in Armenian:\n\nՆորոգեցաւ դարպասս արդեամբ Տէր եւ Տիկին Պօղոս եւ Աննա Մակարեանի 1929 \"(This dorter was renovated by commission of Mr and Mrs Boghos and Anna Magarian 1929)\"\n\nՇինեցաւ գաւիթ սբյ. տաճարիս արդեամբք բարեսէր Խրմցի մհտսի. Սիմէօն Աղային ի յշտկ. հոգւոյ կենակցւոյն իւրոյ ի Տր. հանգուցեալ Աննայ հոգեսէր Խաթունին դստեր Սարգիս Աղային. Ընթերցողքըդ տուք զողորմիս. Ամէն յամի Տռն. 1818 \"(The narthex of this holy temple was built by commission of benevolent mahdessi (a person gone on pilgrimage to Jerusalem) Agha Symeon of Crimea in memory of the soul of his deceased companion who rests besides the Lord the devout Anna Khatoun, daughter of Sarkis Agha. You the readers give me your mercy. Amen in the Lord's Year 1818)\"\n\nIn front of the two Moughalian rooms there used to be the following commemorative marble inscription in Armenian:\n\nԵրկոքին սենեակս շինեցան արդեամբք ժառանգորդաց Արթին Աղա Մուղալեանի 1907 \"(Both these rooms were built by commission of the heirs of Artin Agha Moughalian 1907)\"\n\nIn front of the other rooms there used to be the following commemorative marble inscription in Armenian:\n\nԱրար ըզսոյն իւր յիշատակ Ս. Մակարայ Վանիցս սենեակ արգոյ Հաճի Սիմէօն Աղային ընդ ամուսնոյն Խաթուն Աննայն 1814 Յունվ. 3 \"(These rooms in Saint Macarius Monastery were built by Hadji Symeon Agha for the precious memory of his wife Khatoun Anna 3 January 1814)\"\n\nOn the rooms of the mills there is the following commemorative marble inscription in Armenian:\n\nՇինեցաւ ի յիշատակ նուիրատուացն աղօրեաց Տ. Տ. Յովսէփայ եւ Մարտիրոսի Վարդապետացն, 1922 \"(Built in memory of the mills' donors Archimandrites Hovsep and Mardiros, 1922)\"\n\nFinally, on the Holy Archangels' fountain, there used to be the following commemorative marble inscription in Armenian, which is now partially defaced:\n\nԳտաւ ակնաղբիւրս այս Սրբոց Հրեշտակապետաց սրտաբուխ նուիրատուութեամբ Տէր եւ Տիկին Գասպարեանի 1948 \"(This fountain-head of the Holy Archangels was found by the generous donation of Mr and Mrs Kasparian 1948)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "75220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75220", "title": "Baltic Germans", "text": "Baltic Germans\n\nThe Baltic Germans ( or , later ) are ethnic German inhabitants of the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea, in what today are Estonia and Latvia. Since their expulsion from Estonia and Latvia and resettlement during the upheavals and aftermath of the Second World War, Baltic Germans have markedly declined as a geographically determined ethnic group. The largest groups of present-day descendants of the Baltic Germans are found in Germany and Canada. It is estimated that several thousand still reside in Latvia and Estonia.\n\nFor centuries Baltic Germans and the Baltic nobility constituted a ruling class over native non-German serfs. The emerging Baltic-German middle class was mostly urban and professional.\n\nIn the 12th and 13th centuries Catholic Germans, both traders and crusaders (\"see \"), began settling in the eastern Baltic territories. After the Livonian Crusade, they assumed control of government, politics, economics, education and culture of these lands, ruling for more than 700 years until 1918 — usually in alliance with Polish, Swedish or Russian overlords. With the decline of Latin, German became the language of all official documents, commerce, education and government.\n\nAt first the majority of German settlers lived in small cities and military castles. Their elite formed the Baltic nobility, acquiring large rural estates and comprising the social, commercial, political and cultural elite of Latvia and Estonia for several centuries. After 1710 many of these men increasingly took high positions in the military, political and civilian life of the Russian Empire, particularly in Saint Petersburg. Baltic Germans held citizenship in the Russian Empire until the Revolution of 1918. They then held Estonian or Latvian citizenship until the occupation and later annexation of these areas by the Soviet Union in 1939–1940.\n\nThe Baltic German population never surpassed more than 10% of the total population. In 1881 there were 180,000 Baltic Germans in Russia's Baltic provinces, but by 1914 this number had declined to 162,000. In 1881 there were approximately 46,700 Germans in Estonia (5.3% of the population). According to the Russian Empire Census of 1897, there were 120,191 Germans in Latvia, or 6.2% of the population.\n\nBaltic German history and presence in the Baltics came to an end in late 1939, following the signing of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact and the subsequent Nazi–Soviet population transfers. Almost all the Baltic Germans were resettled by Nazi Germany under the program into the newly formed of and Danzig-West Prussia (on the territory of the occupied Second Polish Republic). In 1945, most ethnic Germans were expelled from these lands by the Soviet army. Resettlement was planned for the territory remaining to Germany under terms of the border changes promulgated at the Potsdam Conference, i.e. west of the Oder–Neisse line, or elsewhere in the world.\n\nEthnic Germans from East Prussia and Lithuania are sometimes incorrectly considered Baltic Germans for reasons of cultural, linguistic, and historical affinities. But the Germans of East Prussia held Prussian, and after 1871, German citizenship, because the territory they lived in was part of Kingdom of Prussia.\n\nBaltic Germans were not a purely German ethnic group. The early crusaders, tradesmen and craftsmen often married local women, as there were no German women available. Some noble families, such as the Lievens, claimed descent through such women from native chieftains. Many of the German Livonian Order soldiers died during the Livonian War. New German arrivals came to the area. During this time the Low German (\"Plattdeutsch\") of the original settlers was gradually replaced by the High German (\"Hochdeutsch\") of the new settlers.\n\nIn the course of their 700-year history, Baltic German families had ethnic German roots, but also had extensive intermarriage with Estonians, Livonians and Latvians, as well as with other Northern or Central European people, such as Danes, Swedes, Irish, English, Scots, Poles, Hungarians and Dutch. In cases where intermarriage occurred, members of the other ethnic groups frequently assimilated into German culture, adopting language, customs, and German family names. They were then considered Germans, leading to the ethnogenesis of the Baltic Germans. Barclay de Tolly and George Armitstead, who emigrated from the British Isles, married into and became part of the Baltic-German community.\n\nBaltic German settlements in the Baltic area consisted of the following territories:\n\nSmall numbers of Ethnic Germans began to settle in the area in the late 12th century when traders and Christian missionaries began to visit the coastal lands inhabited by tribes who spoke Finnic and Baltic languages. Systematic conquest and settlement of these lands was completed during the Northern Crusades of the 12th and 13th centuries which resulted in creation of the Terra Mariana confederation, under the protection of Roman Popes and Holy Roman Empire. After the heavy defeat in the 1236 Battle of Saule the Livonian Brothers of the Sword became a part of the Teutonic Order.\n\nDuring the next three centuries German-speaking soldiers, clergymen, merchants and craftsmen constituted the majority of the quickly growing urban population, as the native inhabitants usually were prohibited from settling there. Membership in the Hanseatic League and active trade links with Russia and Europe increased wealth of Baltic German traders.\n\nAs the military power of the Teutonic Knights weakened during the 15th century wars with the Kingdom of Poland, Grand Duchy of Lithuania and Grand Duchy of Moscow, the Livonian branch in the north began to pursue its own policies. When the Prussian branch of the Order secularized in 1525 and became a Polish vassal state as the Duchy of Prussia, the Livonian branch remained independent while searching for a similar way to secularize. Livonia became mostly Protestant during the Reformation.\n\nIn 1558, the Tsardom of Russia began the Livonian War against Terra Mariana which soon involved the Kingdoms of Poland, Sweden, and Denmark and lasted for 20 years. In 1561, Terra Mariana ceased to exist and was divided among Denmark (which took the island of Ösel), Sweden (which took northern Estonia) and Poland, which annexed the newly created Duchy of Livonia, and granted the Duchy of Courland and Semigallia, a vassal state of Poland-Lithuania, to the last Master of the Livonian Order Gotthard Kettler. The secularized land was divided among the remaining knights who formed the basis of Baltic nobility.\n\nThe Duchy of Courland and Semigallia existed as a German-speaking country until 1795, while the northern part of Duchy of Livonia was conquered by Sweden which controlled parts of Estonia between 1561 and 1710 and Swedish Livonia between 1621 and 1710, having signed an agreement with the local Baltic German nobles not to undermine their political rights and autonomy.\n\nThe \"Academia Gustaviana\" (now University of Tartu) was founded in 1632 by King Gustavus II Adolphus of Sweden. It remained the only institution of higher education in the former Livonian territories and became the intellectual focus of the Baltic Germans.\n\nAt the end of the 17th century Sweden introduced the land reduction in its Baltic provinces and properties held by German nobility became the property of the Crown. That effectively turned serfs into free peasants, but it would be overturned when Russia conquered these territories in 1710 and restored the rights of German landowners under the Treaty of Nystad.\n\nBetween 1710 and 1795, following Russia's success in the Great Northern War and the three Partitions of Poland, the areas inhabited by Baltic Germans eventually became Baltic governorates of Russian Empire - Courland Governorate, Governorate of Livonia and Governorate of Estonia.\n\nThe Baltic provinces remained autonomous and were self-governed by the local Baltic nobility. Until the imperial reforms of 1880s local government was in the hands of the landtag of each province, in which only members of the matriculated Baltic nobility held membership and cities were ruled by German burgomasters.\n\nBetween 1710 and approximately 1880 Baltic German ruling class enjoyed great autonomy from the Imperial government and achieved great political influence in the Imperial court. Starting from the 18th century Baltic German nobility increasingly assumed leading posts in the Russian imperial government, after all, Russia was ruled by a German dynasty of Holstein-Gottorp, and Baltic Germans provided a well-educated, Westernized elite.\n\nGermans, other than the local estate-owners, mainly lived in the cities, such as Riga, \"Reval\", \"Dorpat\", \"Pernau\" and \"Mittau\". As late as the mid-19th century the population of many of these cities still had a German majority, with Estonian, Latvian or Jewish minorities. By 1867 Riga's population was 42.9% German. Until the late 19th century most of the professional and learned classes in the region, the \"literati\", were Germans.\n\nGerman political and cultural autonomy ceased in the 1880s, when Russification replaced German administration and schooling with the usage of Russian. After 1885 provincial governors usually were Russians.\n\nYears of peace under Russian rule brought increasing prosperity and many new manor houses were built in country estates, but economic exploitation worsened situation of the native population.\nFor examples, see List of palaces and manor houses in Latvia and List of palaces and manor houses in Estonia.\n\nThe native Latvian and Estonian population enjoyed fewer rights under the Baltic German nobility compared to the farmers in Germany, Sweden, or Poland. In contrast to the Baltic Germans, Estonians and Latvians had restricted civil rights and resided mostly in rural areas as serfs, tradesmen, or as servants in manors and urban homes. They had no rights to leave their masters and no last names. This was in keeping with the social scheme of things in Russian Empire, and lasted until the 19th century, when emancipation from serfdom brought those inhabitants increased civil freedoms and some political rights.\n\nIn 1804 Livonian peasant law was introduced by Imperial government, aimed at improving condition of serfs. Serfdom was abolished in all Baltic provinces between 1816 and 1820, about half a century earlier than in Russia proper. For some time there was no outward tension between the German speakers and indigenous residents.\n\nIf earlier any Latvian or Estonian who managed to rise above his class was expected to Germanize and to forget his roots, by the middle of 19th century German urban classes began to feel increasing competition from the natives, who after the First Latvian National Awakening and Estonian national awakening produced their own middle class and moved to German and Jewish dominated towns and cities in increasing numbers.\n\nThe Revolution of 1905 led to attacks against the Baltic German landowners, the burning of manors, and the torture and even killing of members of the nobility. During the 1905 Revolution groups of rebels burned over 400 manor houses and German owned buildings and killed 82 Germans. In response Cossack punitive expeditions aided by German nobles and officers burned down hundreds of farms, arrested and deported thousands and summarily executed at least 2,000 people.\n\nReaction to 1905 Revolution included a scheme by Karl Baron von Manteuffel-Szoege and Silvio Broedrich-Kurmahlen to pacify the countryside by settling up to 20,000 ethnic German farmers, mostly from Volhynia, in Courland.\n\nWorld War I brought the end of the alliance of the Baltic Germans and the Russian Tsarist government. German heritage made them to be seen as the enemy by Russians. They were seen also as traitors by the German Empire if they remained loyal to Russia. Their loyalty to the state was questioned and rumors of a German fifth column increased together with the defeats of the Imperial army led by Baltic German general Paul von Rennenkampf. All German schools and societies were closed in the Estonian Governorate and Germans were ordered to leave the Courland Governorate for inner Russia.\n\nCourland was conquered by Germany in 1915 and included into the military Ober Ost administration. After the Russian surrender at the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk in 1917, the German Empire occupied the remaining Baltic provinces.\n\nThe Ober Ost military administration began plans for German colonization of Courland. On April 20, 1917 the Commander-in-Chief of the Eastern front announced that 1/3 or arable land there should be reserved for settlement by German war veterans. This was approved by Courland's German nobility on September 22, 1917.\n\nLivonian and Estonian nobles on January 28, 1918 delivered a note of independence to Soviet representatives in Stockholm, announcing their intent to break away from Russia under the rights granted to them by the Treaty of Nystad of 1721. In response Bolsheviks, who controlled Estonia, arrested 567 leading Germans and deported them to Russia. After signing the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk they were allowed to return. Under German-Soviet treaties, Germany gained control over Courland, Riga, Saaremaa (Ösel), Livonia and Estonia.\n\nIn spring of 1918 Baltic Germans announced the restoration of the independent Duchy of Courland and Semigallia and pursued plans for uniting it with the Kingdom of Prussia. On April 12, 1918 Baltic German representatives from all Baltic provinces met in Riga and called on the German Emperor to annex the Baltic lands.\n\nLater, instead of outright annexation, a plan for a United Baltic Duchy ruled by Duke Adolf Friedrich of Mecklenburg was developed. Its regency council met on November 9, 1918 but collapsed together with the German Empire.\n\nThe Baltic Germans' rule and class privileges came to the end with the demise of the Russian Empire (due to the Bolshevik revolution of October 1917) and the independence of Estonia and Latvia in 1918–1919.\n\nBaltic Germans greatly suffered under Bolshevik regimes in Estonia and Latvia. While short-lived, they pursued Red Terror against Germans, often killing them purely because of their nationality.\n\nAfter the collapse of the German Empire, Baltic Germans in Estonia began forming volunteer units to defend against the Bolshevik threat. On November 27, 1918 this was authorized by the Estonian government, and the Volunteer Baltic Battalion (\"Freiwilligen Baltenbataillon\") was formed under the command of Colonel Constantin von Weiss ().\n\nDuring the Estonian and Latvian independence wars of 1918–1920, many Baltic Germans signed voluntarily into the newly formed Estonian and Latvian armies to help secure the independence of these countries from Russia. These Baltic German military units became known as the \"Baltische Landeswehr\" in Latvia and \"Baltenregiment ()\" in Estonia. The State archives of Estonia and Latvia keep individual military records of each person who fought in this war.\n\n\"Baltische Landeswehr\" units took Riga on May 22, 1919 which was followed by White Terror in which up to 2,000 people, mostly Latvians, were shot as suspected Bolshevik supporters.\n\nBaltic German outlying estates were frequent targets of local Bolsheviks (as portrayed in the film, \"Coup de Grâce\") and the combination of local Bolsheviks and nationalists following independence brought about land nationalisations and a displacement of Baltic Germans from positions of authority. Baltic Germans of the Livonian Governorate found themselves in two new countries, both of which introduced sweeping agrarian reforms aimed at the large land owners, an absolute majority of whom were Germans.\n\nAs a result of the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the subsequent Russian Civil War, many Baltic Germans fled to Germany. After 1919, many Baltic Germans felt obliged to depart the newly independent states for Germany, but many stayed as ordinary citizens.\n\nIn 1925 there were 70,964 Germans in Latvia (3.6%) and 62,144 in 1935 (3.2% of population). Riga remained by far the largest German center with 38,523 Germans residing there in 1935, while Tallinn then had 6,575 Germans.\n\nWhile the German landed class soon lost most of their lands after the agrarian reforms, they continued to work in their professions and to lead their companies. German cultural autonomy was respected. The Committee of the German Baltic Parties in Latvia and \"Deutsch-baltische Partei in Estland\" in Estonia participated in elections and won seats.\n\nAt the same time, as both young states built their institutions this often reduced the status of their minorities. In Latvia, children of mixed marriages were registered as Latvians while in Estonia they took the nationality of their fathers, who increasingly were Estonians. This quickly reduced the number of German children. German place names were eliminated from public use. German congregations lost their churches. Tallinn Cathedral was given to an Estonian congregation in 1927. After the 1923 referendum St. James's Cathedral in Riga was lost and Riga Cathedral taken away after another referendum in 1931.\n\nAt the start of independence Baltic Germans owned 58% of land in Estonia and 48% in Latvia. Radical agrarian reforms were implemented in both countries to break German power and to distribute land to the veterans of independence wars and landless peasants. This largely destroyed the landed class of German noble families and their economic base.\n\nOn October 10, 1919 the Estonian parliament expropriated 1,065 estates (96.6% of all estates). March 1, 1926 law set the compensation to the former owners of arable land at about 3% of its market value and no compensation at all for the forests. This almost instantly bankrupted the German noble class, even if they were allowed to keep some 50 ha of their lands.\n\nOn September 16, 1920 the Constitutional Assembly of Latvia nationalized 1,300 estates with 3.7 million hectares of land. Former German owners were allowed to keep 50 ha of land and farm equipment. In 1924, the Saeima decided that no compensation would be paid to former owners. In 1929, the Saeima voted that veterans of the \"Baltische Landeswehr\" could not receive any land.\n\nIn Estonia, there was only one German party, which from 1926 was led by Axel de Vries (), editor of \"Revaler Bote\". Their leading parliamentarian was Werner Hasselblatt (1890–1958). Germans never received ministerial posts in governments. The three largest minorities Germans, Swedes and Russians sometimes formed election coalitions. The \"Deutsch-baltische Partei in Estland\" was established to defend the interests of German landowners, who wanted to receive compensation for their nationalized lands and properties. After land nationalization they received no compensation, but could keep plots up to 50 ha which could not support their manor houses.\n\nGermans were banned from governmental and military positions. Many Germans sold their properties and emigrated to Scandinavia or Western Europe. Most of the grand manor houses were taken over by schools, hospitals, local administration and museums.\n\nEstonia's Baltic German population was smaller than Latvia's, so as Estonians continued to fill professional positions such as law and medicine, there was less of a leadership role for the Baltic Germans. Baron Wilhelm Wrangell, leader of the Baltic German cultural association between 1933 and 1938 was included in the Estonian Council of State after 1937 as a token representative of minorities. The last leader of Baltic German Cultural administration was .\n\nOn February 12, 1925 Estonia adapted the Cultural Autonomy and national Minorities act which provided for some cultural autonomy of Germans. Despite this, German community in Estonia continued to decline as the majority of young people chose to emigrate. By 1934 there were 16.346 Baltic Germans in Estonia, 1.5% of the total population.\n\nEstonia allowed German schools in German language, they were overseen by the \"Gesellschaft Deutsche Schulhilfe\", which was part of the Union of German Societies in Estonia. After adoption of the Minority law of February 5, 1925 the Baltic German Cultural Council was created on November 1, 1925. In 1928, German schools were attended by 3,456 pupils.\n\nIn Latvia, Baltic Germans remained a politically active and organized ethnic group, although they lost some influence after the 1934 Latvian coup d'état. A couple of times Germans received ministerial posts in coalition governments. Commander of Latvia's Navy between 1919 and 1931 was Admiral Archibald Count von Keyserling.\n\nSix, later seven, German parties existed and formed a coalition in the Saeima. The leading politicians were Baron Wilhelm Friedrich Karl von Fircks, leader of the Baltic-German People's Party and Paul Schiemann, editor in chief of the \"\" newspaper and leader of the Baltic-German Democratic Party. Increased activity of National Socialist supporters in the German community led to the resignation of Schiemann from the \"Rigasche Rundschau\" in 1933.\n\nMinority cultural affairs were overseen by the Ministry of Culture and the German section was led by pastor Karl Keller (1868–1939) and later by Dr. Wolfgang Wachtsmuth. In 1923, there were 12.168 pupils in German schools. The Herder Institute, a private German university with three faculties (Theology, Jurisprudence and Political Science and Philosophy) was established.\n\nIn 1926, the German community introduced voluntary self-taxation, asking all Germans to contribute up to 3% of their monthly income to community activities. In 1928, the Baltic German National Community was established as the central representative body of Baltic Germans in Latvia.\n\nEducational autonomy of Germans was severely limited in 1931–1933, when the Minister of Education introduced a policy of latvianization in minority schools. On July 18, 1934 the autonomous German schools were brought under complete control of the Ministry of Education.\n\nAfter the May 15, 1934 coup all associations and independent business organizations had to shut down, this affected the German community especially hard, as they lost their ancient communal centers – guilds, and all of their property was nationalized. Then followed a wave of takeovers of Jewish, Russian and German businesses – banks, factories and trading companies were purchased by state owned banks at set rates in order to reduce minority control over businesses.\n\nAs a result of the secret agreements of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union in 1939, Estonia and Latvia were assigned to the \"Soviet sphere of influence\". One of the main conditions posed by Hitler to Stalin in August 1939 was the prior transfer of all ethnic Germans living in Estonia and Latvia to areas under German military control. These became known as the Nazi–Soviet population transfers. Stalin proceeded to set up Soviet military bases in Estonia and Latvia in late 1939.\n\nIn a speech to Reichstag on October 6, 1939 with was broadcast live on radio, Hitler announced that German minorities should be resettled in the Reich (Back home to Reich, \"heim ins Reich\"). Resettlement was overseen by Himmler who created a new Reich Commisariat for the Strengthening of Germandom for this purpose.\n\nTreaties were signed with Estonia and Latvia in 1939 and 1940 concerning the emigration of Baltic Germans and the liquidation of their educational, cultural, and religious institutions. Nazi Germany succeeded in getting the Baltic Germans to abandon their homes and homeland in haste. Due to the imposition of wartime rationing, Germans were banned from taking along any valuables, objects of historic value, fuels and even food. Massive sell-off of household items and small businesses followed. Larger properties, real estate and businesses were sold over a longer period of time by a special German commission to local governments.\n\n\nThe Estonian and Latvian governments published books containing alphabetical lists of the names of resettled Baltic German adults together with their birthdate, birthplace and last address in the Baltics.\n\nBaltic Germans left by ships from the port cities of Estonia and Latvia to ports of Gotenhafen and Stettin and then were transported to Posen and Lodz in \"Reichsgau Wartheland\" (sometimes called \"Warthegau\") and other Polish areas annexed by Nazi Germany. The \"new\" homes and farms they were given to live in had been owned and inhabited by Poles and Jews just a few months earlier who were executed or deported eastwards when Nazi Germany invaded Poland. The new arrivals fulfilled Nazi plans for ethnic Germanization of these lands.\n\nIn early 1941, the Nazi German government arranged another resettlement for all those who had refused to leave in 1939 or 1940. The action was called the \"Nachumsiedlung\". This time around no compensation was offered for any property or belongings left behind and this group of resettlers were treated with intense suspicion or considered traitors because they had refused Hitler's first call to leave the Baltics in 1939. Most of these arrivals were first settled in filtration camps. Unknown to the general public, the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union was only 2 to 4 months away, and this was Hitler's last chance to transfer these people in peacetime conditions.\n\nBy this time, the remaining Baltic Germans in Estonia and Latvia found themselves in a vastly different situation than in 1939. Their countries were now occupied by the Soviet Union, and intense pressure and intimidation had been put on anyone with a position of privilege or wealth before 1939. Mass arrests and some killings had taken place. Fearing a worsening of the situation, the vast majority of the remaining Baltic Germans decided to leave. About 7,000 resettled from Estonia by late March 1941, and approximately 10,500 resettled from Latvia by late March 1941.\n\nNo books were published listing those who resettled in 1941; however, the present-day archives of Estonia and Latvia still have the lists of all those who left in this year.\n\nA very small minority of Baltic Germans refused again to be resettled and remained in the Baltics past March 1941. Some fell victim to the Soviet deportations to Siberian gulags beginning in early June 1941. The names and data of those deported from Estonia from 1941 to 1953 have been published in books. Details are kept at the Museum of Occupations in Estonia.\n\nAfter the Nazi attack on the Soviet Union and the conquering of Latvia and Estonia, a small number of Baltic Germans were allowed to return in order to serve as translators, but requests of many resettled Germans to be allowed to return to their homelands were denied by Himmler's SS. Many German Baltic men were mobilized in the occupied Warthegau and served in the German army.\n\nThe resettled Germans fled west with the retreating German army in 1944. No precise numbers or lists are available for them. However, several thousand Baltic Germans remained in the Baltics after 1944, but they were subject to widespread discrimination (and possible deportation to Siberia until 1953) by the Soviet authorities ruling Estonia and Latvia. As a result of this, many hid or lied about their Baltic German origins. Most of those who stayed past 1944 were children of mixed ethnic marriages or themselves married to ethnic Estonians, Latvians or Russians and their descendants no longer consider themselves German.\n\nThe Soviet Union's advance into Poland and Germany in late 1944 and early 1945 resulted in the Baltic Germans being evacuated by the German authorities (or simply fleeing) from their \"new homes\" to areas even further in the west to escape the advancing Red Army. Most of them settled in West Germany, some ended up in East Germany.\n\nIn stark contrast to the resettlements in 1939–1941, this time around the evacuation in most of the areas was delayed until the last moment, when it was too late to conduct it in an orderly fashion, and practically all of them had to leave most of their belongings behind.\n\nSeeing as they had only been living in these \"new\" homes for only about five years, this was almost seen as a \"second forced resettlement\" for them, albeit under different circumstances. \n\nMany Baltic Germans were on board the KdF Ship \"Wilhelm Gustloff\" when it was sunk by a Soviet submarine on January 30, 1945. By one estimate, 9,400 people on board died, which would make it the largest loss of life in a single ship sinking in history. Additionally, many Baltic Germans died during the sinking of the SS \"General von Steuben\" on February 10, 1945.\n\nTwo books listing the names and personal data of all Baltic Germans who died as a result of the resettlements and wartime conditions between 1939 and 1947 have been published by the Baltic German genealogical society: \"Deutsch-baltisches Gedenkbuch. Unsere Toten der Jahre 1939–1947\" by Karin von Borbély, Darmstadt, 1991; and \"Nachtrag zum Deutsch-baltisches Gedenkbuch\" by Karin von Borbély, Darmstadt, 1995.\n\nLater, with Estonia and Latvia falling under Soviet rule after 1944, the Baltic Germans did not return to Soviet occupied Baltics again.\n\nMany thousands of Baltic Germans emigrated to Canada starting in 1948 with the support of Canadian Governor General The Earl Alexander of Tunis, who had known many Baltic Germans when he had commanded the Baltic German Landeswehr for a short time in 1919. Initially only 12 Germans were allowed to settle in 1948. Based on the good behavior of this group, many thousands of Baltic Germans were soon allowed to immigrate during the following years.\n\nDuring the 50-year-long occupation of the Baltic states, Soviet occupation authorities governing the Estonian SSR and the Latvian SSR, politically empowered by their victory in World War II, were keen to erase any traces of ethnic German rule in past centuries. Numerous statues, monuments, structures or landmarks with German writing were destroyed, vandalized or left to ruin.\n\nThe largest Baltic German cemeteries in Estonia, Kopli cemetery and Mõigu cemetery, both standing since 1774, were completely destroyed by the Soviet authorities. Great Cemetery of Riga, the largest burial ground of Baltic Germans in Latvia standing since 1773, also had the vast majority of its graves destroyed by the Soviets.\n\nThe present-day governments of Estonia and Latvia, who regained their independence in 1991, generally take a positive, or sometimes neutral, view towards the contributions of the Baltic Germans in the development of their cities and countries throughout their history. An occasional exception to this comes with some criticism in relation to the major landowners, who controlled most of the rural areas of the Baltics, and the ethnic Estonians and Latvians, until 1918.\n\nAfter Estonia regained independence from the Soviet Union on August 20, 1991, the exiled association of the German Baltic nobility sent an official message to the president-to-be Lennart Meri that no member of the association would claim proprietary rights to their former Estonian lands. This, and the fact that the first German ambassadors to Estonia and Latvia were both Baltic Germans, helped to further reconcile the Baltic Germans with these two countries.\n\nCooperation between Baltic German societies and the governments of Estonia and Latvia has made the restoration of many small Baltic German plaques and landmarks possible, such as monuments to those who fought in the 1918–1920 War of Independence.\n\nSince 1989, many elderly Baltic Germans, or their descendants, have taken holidays to Estonia and Latvia to look for traces of their own past, their ancestral homes, and their family histories. Most of the remaining manor houses have new owners, operate as hotels and are open to public.\n\nBaltic Germans played leading roles in the society of what are now Estonia and Latvia throughout most of the period from 13th to mid-20th century, with many of them becoming noted scientists or explorers. A number of Baltic Germans served as ranking generals in the Russian Imperial Army and Navy, including Michael Barclay de Tolly, Adam von Krusenstern, Fabian von Bellingshausen, Friedrich von Buxhoeveden, Paul von Rennenkampf, Ivan Ivanovich Michelson and Eduard Totleben.\n\nMany Baltic Germans (such as Baron Roman von Ungern-Sternberg, Baron Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel, Yevgeny Miller, and Anatoly Lieven) sided with the Whites and related anti-Bolshevik forces (like the \"Baltische Landeswehr\" and the \"Freikorps\" movement) during the Russian Civil War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17338916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17338916", "title": "Bungal Bugti", "text": "Bungal Bugti\n\nBungal Bugti () was a Baloch politician from Sim Shah, Dera Bugti District, Balochistan, Pakistan. Bungal Bugti was former ally of Nawab Akbar Shahbaz Khan Bugti. Bungal Bugti was killed on May 9, 2008 when his car blew up. It has been reported that the militants of Balochistan Liberation Army carried out the attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "766369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766369", "title": "Collective", "text": "Collective\n\nA collective is a group of entities that share or are motivated by at least one common issue or interest, or work together to achieve a common objective. Collectives can differ from cooperatives in that they are not necessarily focused upon an economic benefit or saving, but can be that as well.\n\nThe term \"collective\" is sometimes used to describe a species as a whole—for example, the human collective.\n\nFor political purposes, a collective is defined by decentralized, or \"majority-rules\" decision making styles.\n\nCollectives are sometimes characterised by attempts to share and exercise political and social power and to make decisions on a consensus-driven and egalitarian basis. \n\nA commune or intentional community, which may also be known as a \"collective household\", is a group of people who live together in some kind of dwelling or residence, or in some other arrangement (e.g. sharing land). Collective households may be organized for a specific purpose (e.g. relating to business, parenting, or some other shared interest).\n\nArtist collectives, including musical collectives, are typically a collection of individuals with similar interests in producing and documenting art as a group. These groups can range in size from a few people to thousands of members. The style of art produced can have vast differences. Motivations can be for a common cause or individually motivated purposes. Some collectives are simply people who enjoy painting with someone else and have no other goals or motivations for forming their collective.\n\nA Worker cooperative is a type of horizontal collectivism wherein a business functions as a partnership of individual professionals, recognizing them as equals and rewarding them for their expertise. The working collective aims to reduce costs to clients while maintaining healthy rewards for participating partners. This is accomplished by eliminating the operating costs that are needed to support levels of management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41389178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41389178", "title": "Corruption in Slovakia", "text": "Corruption in Slovakia\n\nCorruption in Slovakia is examined on this page.\n\nTransparency International’s Global Corruption Barometer 2013 indicates that corruption remains a serious problem in Slovakia. High-profile corruption cases have plagued the country, including the “Gorilla” case that surfaced at the end of 2011. In this case, secret wiretap recordings between 2005 and 2006 were leaked to the internet, bringing to light millions of Euros in bribes paid by a private equity firm to Slovakian government officials in exchange for privatisation and procurement deals. \n\nAccording to Global Corruption Barometer 2013, political parties rank as the third most corrupt institution in Slovakia, after the judiciary and public servants, and 56% of surveyed households believe the level of corruption in the country has “increased a lot” in the past two years. In order to combat corruption in the country, Slovakia has initiated several corruption reforms in recent years, including the creation of a central contract registry and publishing online all government contracts.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 54th place out of 180 countries.\n\nCorruption is ranked as the second most problematic factor for doing business in Slovakia, according to the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014, after inefficient government bureaucracy. Surveyed business executives report that public funds are often diverted to companies, individuals or groups due to corruption, and the lack of ethical behaviour by companies in their interactions with public officials, politicians and other companies represents a serious business disadvantage for the country.\n\nCompanies consider the occurrence of irregular payments and bribes to be fairly common in connection with imports and exports, public utilities, annual tax payment, and awarding of public contracts and licences or obtaining favourable judicial decisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38047060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38047060", "title": "Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission", "text": "Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission\n\nThe Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) was established after Kenya’s President Mwai Kibaki signed the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Act on 29 August 2011. The EACC replaced the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission (KACC).\n\nThe country’s Parliament disbanded KACC on 24 August 2011, in line with the requirements for change as stipulated in the new Constitutional dispensation after the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution.\n\nThe EACC was established on 5 September 2011 and Commissioners Irene Keino and Prof. Jane K. Onsongo appointed on 11 May 2012 to head the anti-graft agency.\n\nChairman Mumo Matemu was nominated by the Grand Coalition principals, President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila Odinga in 2012 to head the anti-graft agency alongside commissioners Irene Keino and Prof. Jane Onsongo.\n\nThe three have since resigned concurrently amid controversy in between April–May 2015.\n\nIn November 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta nominated new members to head the agency. Philip Kinusu as the commission’s chairperson alongside four other officials as commissioners. The commissioners are Dabar Maalim, Paul Gachoka, Sophia Lepuchirit and Rose Macharia\n\nThe Commission Secretary - HALAKHE DIDA WAQO is in charge of the day to day operations. Mr. Halakhe D. Waqo formally took office at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) after a swearing-in ceremony held at the Supreme Court of Kenya, on 21 January 2013.\n\nBy doing so, he becomes the Commission’s first Secretary/Chief Executive Officer since EACC was established to replace the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission in 2012.\n\nHe is deputised by:\n\nMr. Michael Mubea (Deputy Secretary/Chief Executive Officer – Operations) whom joined the commission in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9073909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9073909", "title": "FORDISC", "text": "FORDISC\n\nBefore ForDisc, many anthropologists based their studies off of museum skeletal collections such as the Hamann-Todd collection that is housed at Case Western Reserve in Cleveland, Ohio, and the Terry collection housed at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC. These museum collections house skeletal remains that were amassed from 50 to 100 years ago. Due to the age of these collections, their use in a medico-legal context did not produce accurate determination of the biological profile. ForDisc was forensic anthropologists solution to this problem, and allowed for classification when some measurements are not available.\n\nForDisc, an interactive discriminant functions program created by Stephen Ousley and Richard Jantz, is widely used by forensic anthropologists to assist in the creation of a decedent's biological profile when only parts of the cranium are available. The use of discriminant function analysis in this program allows the researcher to sort individuals into specific groups that are defined by certain criteria. In this program discriminate function analysis \"analyzes specific groups with known membership in discrete categories such as ancestry, language, sex, tribe or ancestry, and provides a basis for the classification of new individuals with unknown group membership.\" The program compares potential profiles to data contained in a database of skeletal measurements of modern humans.\n\nUsing ForDisc, a decedent’s biological profile can be created based on measurements from various areas of bones, along with information about the person's age, height, race, and illnesses. For ancestry ForDisc uses standard anthropometric measurements including maximum length, maximum breadth, bi-zygomatic breadth, orbital breadth and height, maximum alveolar breadth and width, minimum frontal breadth, basion-bregma, basion-prosthion, cranial base length, bi-auricular breadth, upper facial height and breadth, foramen magnum breadth and length, frontal chord, parietal chord, occipital chord, nasal height and breadth, bi-orbital breadth, inter orbital breadth, and mastoid length.\n\nThe data behind this software largely originated from the Forensic Data Bank, which is contributed to by the University of Tennessee and other contributing institutions. The Forensic Data Bank was created in 1986, through the use of a National Institute of Justice grant, and has gathered over 3400 cases.The Forensic Data Bank is a currently ongoing effort to record information about modern populations, primarily from forensic cases.\n\nForDisc's creators have also integrated W. W. Howells worldwide cranial data in to the program, for the use of archaeological remains. Howell's craniometric data set consist of 2500 crania from 28 different populations around the world dating to the later Holocene, in which around 82 cranial measurements were obtained.\n\nThis software is able to estimate the sex, ancestry, and stature from a skeleton of unknown identity. This software also can be used for international hearings of war crime and investigations of human rights. This method is also used by the FBI, in different types of criminal cases.\n\nAlthough this program was created for forensic anthropology use, many physical anthropologists are still using the program to determine the biological profile of skeletal remains that are considered archaeological in origin, but the use of this program on archaeological remains has produced misclassifications in the past. The use of William W. Howell’s craniometric data set, which is published online, has made ForDisc 2.0 more appealing to many physical anthropologists concerned with archaeological remains.\n\nThis program is continually updated. New and updated versions are created and added as more knowledge is acquired. The new features of ForDisc 2.0 are improved pictorial guide to measurements, and improved file management and printer control; larger number of variables, including post cranial variables; larger numbers of groups, including Howells' worldwide cranial data. The newest version, ForDisc 3.0 is an interactive forensic software that runs under the Windows system.\n\nAccording to the authors of the program, there are limitations that should be taken into account when using this program. Some of these limitations include the fact that ForDisc will classify any unknown into the ‘closest’ group, this means that even if an individuals ethnic group or race is not represented in the database, the program will classify it to the ‘closest’ group. Another limitation involves classification using hybrid individuals and groups. The authors state that genetic exchange between groups can cause misclassifications due to gene overlap that can consist of two ancestral populations. Another limitation deal with the classification of individuals under the age of 18, this is due to the nature of physical anthropologists ability to assess age in subadults. However, the authors state that there are differences between subadults in different groups, but these differences tend to not correspond to differences seen in adults. Another limitation that the authors believe researchers should take into account is the fact that this program is based on measurements that are affected by \"disease, disuse, treatment, or trauma.\" The measurement of affected bone(s) may produce values that are inaccurate, and therefore he classification will not reflect the correct population affinity.\n\nThe last limitation deals with archaeological populations. This limitation is due to the fact that most of the measurements in the data set that the classifications are based on in the program are from remains that are from the 20th century, and should not be used for classification of archaeological remains. This is because documented population differences and secular changes that have occurred throughout history. However, the inclusion of W. W. Howells craniometric data set has allowed researchers to classify archaeological remains due to the fact that much of the data set comes from individuals from the 19th century.\n\nA 2009 study found that FORDISC 3.0 \"is only likely to be useful when an unidentified specimen is more or less complete and belongs to one of the populations represented in its reference samples\", and even in such \"favorable circumstances it can be expected to classify no more than 1 per cent of specimens with confidence.\"\nIn 2012 research was presented at the 81st Annual Meeting of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists, which concluded ForDisc ancestry determination was not always consistent, and the programs' recommended acceptance criteria did not separate correct and incorrect determinations. The authors concluded that the program does not perform to expectations and should be used with caution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41763092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41763092", "title": "Glenn D. Walters", "text": "Glenn D. Walters\n\nGlenn Walters is an American forensic psychologist and Associate Professor of Criminal Justice at Kutztown University in Pennsylvania. He worked for three decades in federal government as a clinical psychologist and drug program coordinator for military and federal prison inmates. He has published widely in criminology, including addiction. He has developed a Psychological Inventory of Criminal Thinking Styles (PICTS). He argues that criminality is best understood and prevented by examining how it develops within the context of a person's life, and has critiqued genetic studies via metaanalytic research.\n\nHis earlier work focused on recidivist criminals within the justice system with failed lives, describing them as lazy and motivated primarily be fear; it has been pointed out that this does not seem to apply to those who manage to be successful, particularly those in organized crime.\n\nWalter has more recently sought to develop an overarching explanation of why any person develops into a certain lifestyle - a patterned set of rules, roles, rituals and relationships - described as falling within four broad groupings: leader, follower, rebel, and disabled.\n\n"}
{"id": "57576660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57576660", "title": "Greater Magaric languages", "text": "Greater Magaric languages\n\nThe Greater Magaric languages are a branch of Sino-Tibetan languages proposed by Nicolas Schorer (2016). Schorer (2016: 286-287) considers Greater Magaric to be closely related to the Kiranti languages as part of a greater \"Himalayish\" branch, and does not consider Himalayish to be particularly closely related to the Tibetic languages, which include Tibetan and the Tamangic languages.\n\nMatisoff (2015: xxxii, 1123-1127), in the final print release of the \"Sino-Tibetan Etymological Dictionary and Thesaurus\" (STEDT), has also proposed a Kham-Magar-Chepang language group.\n\nSchorer (2016:293)classifies the Greater Magaric languages as follows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42628986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42628986", "title": "Institutional betrayal", "text": "Institutional betrayal\n\nInstitutional betrayal is a concept described by psychologist Jennifer Freyd (Platt, Barton, & Freyd, 2009). referring to \"wrongdoings perpetrated by an institution upon individuals dependent on that institution, including failure to prevent or respond supportively to wrongdoings by individuals (e.g. sexual assault) committed within the context of the institution\". It is an extension of betrayal trauma theory. In a landmark study, Carly P. Smith and Jennifer Freyd (2013) documented psychological harm caused by institutional betrayal. A legal analysis concludes that this study is reliable under Frye and Daubert standards. When institutions such as universities cover up violations such as rape, sexual assault and child sexual abuse (as in the Jerry Sandusky case), this institutional betrayal undermines survivors' recovery.\n\nThe term is receiving increased attention based on recent White House statements about sexual assault on college campuses. The term is also used by the Our Harvard Can Do Better student group at Harvard University. Recent debate about how colleges respond to sexual assault by students has brought this issue renewed media attention.\n\nInstitutional betrayal can occur within families, governments and the military, organizations, workplaces, religious institutions, or any organizational system in which people are dependent on systemic protection. Individuals who have experienced extensive trauma appear to be both less satisfied with police responses in the face of an intimate partner violence incident and more distrustful of police. Therefore, these individuals may experience feelings of institutional betrayal due to a perceived failure of the police to prevent further revictimization. Individuals who have been frequently retraumatized are also the ones most likely to utilize health care and mental health services. Institutional betrayal in the medical system is currently being investigated in the Canadian health care system. It is hypothesized that institutional betrayal in the medical system will explain symptoms of PTSD, depression and anxiety above and beyond the effects of general tendencies to trust others or the patient satisfaction with the care received.\n"}
{"id": "35495198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35495198", "title": "Kuravar", "text": "Kuravar\n\nThe Kuravar is an ethnic Tamil community native to the Kurinji mountain region of southern India.\n\nThe \"Kuravan\" is a Tamil word which means \"uyarnthavan\" or \"Thalaivan\" means \"Leader\"\n\nDuring British rule in India they were placed under Criminal Tribes Act 1871, hence stigmatized for a long time, after Independence however they were denotified in 1952, though the stigma continues.\n\nThe whole population of Tamil Nadu knows that Narikuravar best Community as Tribal Gypsies but the subsequent Governments denied that fact and helped the reservation mechanism which systematically oppressed this group of people who were already been oppressed for ages by their own Tamil people. This has led to protests and resentment from the community. However, the Narikuravas are yet to be recognized as a scheduled tribe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "967342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967342", "title": "Liberty Generation", "text": "Liberty Generation\n\nThe Liberty Generation is an identified cohort within the Strauss–Howe generational theory that describes the generation of people who were born from approximately 1724–1741. According to the authors, notable members include King George III, Czarina Catherine the Great, George Washington, Giacomo Casanova and Daniel Boone.\n"}
{"id": "161151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161151", "title": "Lucy Stone", "text": "Lucy Stone\n\nLucy Stone (August 13, 1818 – October 18, 1893) was a prominent U.S. orator, abolitionist, and suffragist, and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women. In 1847, Stone became the first woman from Massachusetts to earn a college degree. She spoke out for women's rights and against slavery at a time when women were discouraged and prevented from public speaking. Stone was known for using her birth name after marriage, the custom being for women to take their husband's surname.\n\nStone's organizational activities for the cause of women's rights yielded tangible gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century. Stone helped initiate the first National Women's Rights Convention in Worcester, Massachusetts and she supported and sustained it annually, along with a number of other local, state and regional activist conventions. Stone spoke in front of a number of legislative bodies to promote laws giving more rights to women. She assisted in establishing the Woman's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery, after which she helped form the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA), which built support for a woman suffrage Constitutional amendment by winning woman suffrage at the state and local levels.\n\nStone wrote extensively about a wide range of women's rights, publishing and distributing speeches by herself and others, and convention proceedings. In the long-running and influential \"Woman's Journal\", a weekly periodical that she founded and promoted, Stone aired both her own and differing views about women's rights. Called \"the orator\", the \"morning star\" and the \"heart and soul\" of the women's rights movement, Stone influenced Susan B. Anthony to take up the cause of women's suffrage. Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that \"Lucy Stone was the first person by whom the heart of the American public was deeply stirred on the woman question.\" Together, Anthony, Stanton, and Stone have been called the 19th-century \"triumvirate\" of women's suffrage and feminism.\n\nLucy Stone was born on August 13, 1818, on her family's farm at Coy's Hill in West Brookfield, Massachusetts. She was the eighth of nine children born to Hannah Matthews and Francis Stone; she grew up with three brothers and three sisters, two siblings having died before her own birth. Another member of the Stone household was Sarah Barr, \"Aunt Sally\" to the children– a sister of Francis Stone who had been abandoned by her husband and left dependent upon her brother. Although farm life was hard work for all and Francis Stone tightly managed the family resources, Lucy remembered her childhood as one of \"opulence,\" the farm producing all the food the family wanted and enough extra to trade for the few store-bought goods they needed.\n\nAlthough Stone recalled that \"There was only one will in our family, and that was my father's,\" she described the family government characteristic of her day. Hannah Stone earned a modest income through selling eggs and cheese but was denied any control over that money, sometimes denied money to purchase things Francis considered trivial. Believing she had a right to her own earnings, Hannah sometimes stole coins from his purse or secretly sold a cheese. As a child, Lucy resented instances of what she saw as her father's unfair management of the family's money. But she later came to realize that custom was to blame, and the injustice only demonstrated \"the necessity of making custom right, if it must rule.\"\n\nFrom the examples of her mother, Aunt Sally, and a neighbor neglected by her husband and left destitute, Stone early learned that women were at the mercy of their husbands' good will. When she came across the biblical passage, \"and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee,\" she was distraught over what appeared to be divine sanction of women's subjugation, but then reasoned that the injunction applied only to wives. Resolving to \"call no man my master,\" she determined to keep control over her own life by never marrying, obtaining the highest education she could, and earning her own livelihood.\n\nKerr writes \"Stone's personality was striking: her unquestioning willingness to take responsibility for other peoples actions; her \"workaholic\" habits; her self doubt; her desire for control.\"\n\nAt age 16, Stone began teaching in district schools, as her brothers and sister, Rhoda, also did. Her beginning pay of $1.00 a day was much lower than that of male teachers, and when she substituted for her brother, Bowman, one winter, she received less pay than he received. When she protested to the school committee that she had taught all the subjects Bowman had, it replied that they could give her \"only a woman's pay.\" Lower pay for women was one of the arguments cited by those promoting the hiring of women as teachers: \"To make education universal, it must be at moderate expense, and women can afford to teach for one-half, or even less, the salary which men would ask.\" Although Stone's salary increased along with the size of her schools, until she finally received $16 a month, it was always lower than the male rate.\n\nIn 1836, Stone began reading newspaper reports of a controversy raging throughout Massachusetts that some referred to as the \"woman question\" – what was woman's proper role in society; should she assume an active and public role in the reform movements of the day? Developments within that controversy over the next several years shaped her evolving philosophy on women's rights.\n\nA debate over whether women were entitled to a political voice had begun when many women responded to William Lloyd Garrison's appeal to circulate antislavery petitions and sent thousands of signatures to Congress only to have them rejected, in part because women had sent them. Women abolitionists responded by holding a convention in New York City to expand their petitioning efforts, and declaring that \"as certain rights and duties are common to all moral beings,\" they would no longer remain within limits prescribed by \"corrupt custom and a perverted application of Scripture.\" After sisters Angelina and Sarah Grimke began speaking to audiences of men and women, instead of women only as was acceptable, a state convention of Congregational ministers issued a Pastoral letter condemning women's assuming \"the place of man as a public reformer\" and \"itinerat[ing] in the character of public lecturers and teachers.\" Stone attended the convention as a spectator, and was so angered by the letter that she determined \"if ever [I] had anything to say in public, [I] would say it, and all the more because of that pastoral letter.\"\n\nStone read Sarah Grimke's \"Letters on the Province of Woman\" (later republished as \"Letters on the Equality of the Sexes\"), and told a brother they only reinforced her resolve \"to call no man master.\" She drew from these \"Letters\" when writing college essays and her later women's rights lectures.\n\nHaving determined to obtain the highest education she could, Stone enrolled at Mount Holyoke Female Seminary in 1839, at the age of 21. But she was so disappointed in Mary Lyons' intolerance of antislavery and women's rights that she withdrew after only one term. The very next month she enrolled at Wesleyan Academy (later Wilbraham & Monson Academy), which she found more to her liking: \"It was decided by a large majority in our literary society the other day,\" she reported to a brother, \"that ladies ought to mingle in politics, go to Congress, etc. etc.\" Stone read a newspaper account of how a Connecticut antislavery meeting had denied the right to speak or vote to Abby Kelley, recently hired as an antislavery agent to work in that state. Refusing to relinquish her right, Kelley had defiantly raised her hand every time a vote was taken. \"I admire the calm and noble bearing of Abby K,\" Stone wrote to a brother, \"and cannot but wish there were more kindred spirits.\"\n\nThree years later, Stone followed Kelley's example. In 1843, a deacon was expelled from Stone's church for his antislavery activities, which included supporting Kelley by hosting her at his home and driving her to lectures that she gave in the vicinity. When the first vote for expulsion was taken, Stone raised her hand in his defense. The minister discounted her vote, saying that, though she was a member of the church, she was not a voting member. Like Kelley, she stubbornly raised her hand for each of the remaining five votes.\n\nAfter completing a year at coeducational Monson Academy in the summer of 1841, Stone learned that Oberlin Collegiate Institute in Ohio had become the first college in the nation to admit women and had bestowed college degrees on three women. Stone enrolled at Quaboag Seminary in neighboring Warren, where she read Virgil and Sophocles and studied Latin and Greek grammar in preparation for Oberlin's entrance examinations.\n\nIn August 1843, just after she turned 25, Stone traveled by train, steamship, and stagecoach to Oberlin College in Ohio, the country's first college to admit both women and African Americans. She entered the college believing that women should vote and assume political office, that women should study the classic professions and that women should be able to speak their minds in a public forum. Oberlin College did not share all of these sentiments.\n\nIn her third year at Oberlin, Stone befriended Antoinette Brown, an abolitionist and suffragist who came to Oberlin in 1845 to study to become a minister. Stone and Brown would eventually marry abolitionist brothers and thus become sisters-in-law.\n\nStone hoped to earn most of her college expenses through teaching in one of the institute's lower departments. But because of its policy against employing first-year students as teachers, the only work Stone could get other than teaching at district schools during the winter break was house keeping chores through the school's manual labor program. For this she was paid three cents an hour—less than half what male students received for their work in the program. Among measures taken to reduce her expenses, Stone prepared her own meals in her dormitory room. In 1844 Stone was given a position teaching arithmetic in the Ladies Department, but again received reduced pay because of her sex.\n\nOberlin's compensation policies required Stone to do twice the labor a male student had to do to pay the same costs. Stone frequently rose at two o'clock to fit in work and study, and she found her health declining. In February 1845, having decided to submit to the injustice no longer, she asked the Faculty Board for the same pay given two lesser-experienced male colleagues. When her request was denied, she resigned her position. Pleading with the faculty to restore Stone, her former students said they would pay Stone \"what was right\" if the college would not. Stone had planned to borrow money from her father when funds ran out, but Francis Stone, moved by his daughter's description of her struggles, promised to provide money when needed. Help from home was not needed, however, because after three months of pressure, the faculty yielded and hired Stone back, paying both her and other women student teachers at the same rate paid male student teachers.\n\nIn February 1846, Stone intimated to Abby Kelley Foster that she was thinking of becoming a public speaker, but not until the following summer did a storm of controversy over Foster's speaking at Oberlin decide the matter for her. Faculty opposition to Foster ignited impassioned discussion of women's rights among the students, especially of woman's right to speak in public, which Stone vigorously defended in a joint meeting of the men's and women's literary societies. She followed that campus demonstration by making her first public speech at Oberlin's August 1 commemoration of Emancipation in the West Indies.\n\nIn the fall of 1846, Stone informed her family of her intention to become a woman's rights lecturer. Her brothers were at once supportive, her father encouraged her to do what she considered her duty, but her mother and only remaining sister begged her to reconsider. To her mother's fears that she would be reviled, Stone said she knew she would be disesteemed and even hated, but she must \"pursue that course of conduct which, to me, appears best calculated to promote the highest good of the world.\"\n\nStone then tried to gain practical speaking experience. Although women students could debate each other in their literary society, it was considered inappropriate for them to participate in oral exercises with men; women members of the collegiate rhetoric class were expected to learn by observing their male classmates. So Stone and first-year student Antoinette Brown, who also wanted to develop skill in public speaking, organized an off-campus women's debating club. After gaining a measure of competence, they sought and received permission to debate each other before Stone's rhetoric class. The debate attracted a large student audience as well as attention from the Faculty Board, which thereupon formally banned women's oral exercises in coeducational classes. Shortly thereafter, Stone accepted a challenge from a former editor of a county newspaper to a public debate on women's rights, and she soundly defeated him. She then submitted a petition to the Faculty Board, signed by most members of her graduating class, asking that women chosen to write graduation essays be permitted to read them themselves, as men so honored did, instead of having them read by faculty members. When the Faculty Board refused and Stone was elected to write an essay, she declined, saying she could not support a principle that denied women \"the privilege of being co-laborers with men in any sphere to which their ability makes them adequate.\"\n\nStone received her baccalaureate degree from Oberlin College on August 25, 1847, becoming the first female college graduate from Massachusetts.\n\nStone gave her first public speeches on women's rights in the fall of 1847, first at her brother Bowman's church in Gardner, Massachusetts, and a little later in neighboring Warren. Stone became a lecturing agent for the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society in June 1848, persuaded by Abby Kelley Foster that the experience would give her the speaking practice she still felt she needed before beginning her women's rights campaign. Stone immediately proved to be an effective speaker, reported to wield extraordinary persuasive power over her audiences. She was described as \"a little meek-looking Quakerish body, with the sweetest, modest manners and yet as unshrinking and self-possessed as a loaded canon.\" One of her assets, in addition to a storytelling ability that could move audiences to tears or laughter as she willed, was said to be an unusual voice that contemporaries compared to a \"silver bell,\" and of which it was said, \"no more perfect instrument had ever been bestowed upon a speaker.\"\n\nIn addition to helping Stone develop as an orator, the antislavery agency introduced her to a network of progressive reformers within the Garrisonian wing of the abolition movement who assisted her women's rights work. In the fall of 1848, she received an invitation from Phoebe Hathaway of Farmington, New York, to lecture for the women who had organized the Seneca Falls women's rights convention and the Rochester women's rights convention earlier that summer. These rights convention provided continuity for the woman's rights movement, even though no official organization was actually formed prior to the Civil War. Most of the well-known leaders at the time attended these conventions, except for those who were ill or sick. The best-known of them, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Lucy Stone, met, and worked together harmoniously as they wrote, discussed, and circulated petitions for the woman's rights movement. Although Stone accepted and expected to begin working for them in the fall of 1849, the agency never materialized. In April 1849, Stone was invited to lecture for the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society, and Lucretia Mott took advantage of her presence to hold Pennsylvania's first women's rights meeting on May 4, 1849. With the help of abolitionists, Stone conducted Massachusetts' first petition campaigns for the right of women to vote and hold public office. Wendell Phillips drafted the first petitions and accompanying appeals for circulation, and William Lloyd Garrison published them in the Liberator for readers to copy and circulate. When Stone sent petitions to the legislature in February 1850, over half were from towns where she had lectured.\n\nIn April 1850, the Ohio Women's Convention met in Salem, Ohio a few weeks before a state convention met to revise the Ohio state constitution. The women's convention sent a communication to the constitutional convention requesting that the new constitution secure the same political and legal rights for women that were guaranteed to men. Stone sent a letter praising their initiative and said, \"Massachusetts ought to have taken the lead in the work you are now doing, but if she chooses to linger, let her young sisters of the West set her a worthy example; and if the 'Pilgrim spirit is not dead,' we'll pledge Massachusetts to follow her.\"\nSome of the leaders asked Stone and Lucretia Mott to address the constitutional convention on their behalf, but believing such appeals should come from residents of the state, they declined.\n\nWomen's rights conventions up to this point had been organized on a regional or state basis. During the annual convention of the American Anti-Slavery Society in Boston in 1850, with the support of Garrison and other abolitionists, Stone and Paulina Wright Davis posted a notice for a meeting to consider the possibility of organizing a women's rights convention on a national basis.\nThe meeting was held at Boston's Melodeon Hall on May 30, 1850. Davis presided while Stone presented the proposal to the large and responsive audience and served as secretary. Seven women were appointed to organize the convention, with Davis and Stone assigned to conduct the correspondence needed to solicit signatures to the call and recruit speakers and attendance.\n\nA few months before the convention, Stone contracted typhoid fever while traveling in Indiana and nearly died. The protracted nature of Stone's illness left Davis as the principal organizer of the first National Women's Rights Convention, which met on October 23–24, 1850, in Brinley Hall in Worcester, Massachusetts with an attendance of about a thousand.\nStone was able to attend the Worchester convention, but frail health limited her participation, and she made no formal address until the closing session.\n\nThe convention decided not to establish a formal association, but to exist as an annual convention with a standing committee to arrange its meetings, publish its proceedings, and execute adopted plans of action. Stone was appointed to the Central Committee of nine women and nine men. The following spring, she became secretary of the committee and, except for one year, retained that position until 1858. As secretary, Stone took a leading part in organizing and setting the agenda for the national conventions throughout the decade.\n\nIn May 1851, while in Boston attending the New England Anti-Slavery Society's annual meeting, Stone went to the exhibit of Hiram Powers's statue The Greek Slave. She was so moved by the sculpture that when she addressed the meeting that evening, she poured out her heart about the statue being emblematic of all enchained womanhood. Stone said the society's general agent, Samuel May, Jr., reproached her for speaking on women's rights at an antislavery meeting, and she replied, \"I was a woman before I was an abolitionist. I must speak for women.\" Three months later, Stone notified May that she intended to lecture on women's rights full-time and would not be available for antislavery work. \nStone launched her career as an independent women's rights lecturer on October 1, 1851. When May continued to press antislavery work upon her, she agreed to lecture for the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society on Sundays. Arranging women's rights lectures around these engagements, she used pay for her antislavery work to defray expenses of her independent lecturing until she felt confident enough to charge admission.\n\nWhen Stone resumed lecturing in the fall of 1851, she wore a new style of dress that she had adopted during her winter convalescence, consisting of a loose, short jacket and a pair of baggy trousers under a skirt that fell a few inches below the knees. The dress was a product of the health-reform movement and intended to replace the fashionable French dress of a tight bodice over a whalebone-fitted corset, and a skirt that dragged several inches on the floor, worn over several layers of starched petticoats with straw or horsehair sewn into the hems. Ever since the fall of 1849, when the \"Water-Cure Journal\" urged women to invent a style of dress that would allow them the free use of their legs, women across the country had been wearing some form of pants and short skirt, generally called the \"Turkish costume\" or the \"American dress.\" Most wore it as a walking or gardening dress, but a letter writer to the National Woman's Rights Convention urged women to adopt it as common attire.\n\nBy the spring of 1851, women in several states were wearing the dress in public. In March, Amelia Bloomer, editor of the temperance newspaper \"The Lily,\" announced that she was wearing it and printed a description of her dress along with instructions on how to make it. Soon, newspapers had dubbed it the \"Bloomer dress\", and the name stuck.\n\nThe Bloomer became a fashion fad during the following months, as women from Toledo to New York City and Lowell, Massachusetts, held reform-dress social events and festivals. Supporters gathered signatures to a \"Declaration of Independence from the Despotism of Parisian Fashion\" and organized dress-reform societies. A few Garrisonian supporters of women's rights took prominent part in these activities, and one offered silk to any of his friends who would make it into a short skirt and trousers for a public dress. Stone accepted the offer.\nWhen Stone lectured in the dress in the fall of 1851, hers was the first Bloomer most of her audiences had ever seen. But by then, the dress had become controversial. Although newspapers had initially praised the practicality of the new style, they soon turned to ridicule and condemnation, now viewing the trousers as a usurpation of the symbol of male authority. Many women retreated in the face of criticism, but Stone continued to wear the short dress exclusively for the next three years. She also wore her hair short, cut just below her jaw line. After Stone lectured in New York City in April 1853, the report of her speeches in the \"Illustrated News\" was accompanied by this engraving of Stone in the Bloomer dress.\n\nStone found the short skirt convenient during her travels and defended it against those who said it was a distraction that hurt the women's rights cause. Nevertheless, she disliked the instant attention it drew whenever she arrived in a new place. In the fall of 1854, she added a dress a few inches longer, for occasional use. In 1855, she abandoned the dress altogether and was not involved in the formation of a National Dress Reform Association in February 1856. Her resumption of long skirts drew the condemnation of such dress-reform leaders as Gerrit Smith and Lydia Sayer Hasbrouk, who accused her of sacrificing principle for the sake of pleasing a husband.\n\nStone's anti-slavery work included harsh criticism of churches that refused to condemn slavery. Her own church in West Brookfield, the First Congregational Church of West Brookfield, was one of those, having expelled a deacon for anti-slavery activities. In 1851, the church expelled Stone herself. Stone had already moved significantly away from that church's Trinitarian doctrines. While at Oberlin, Stone had arranged for her friend Abby Kelley Foster and her new husband, Stephen Symonds Foster, to speak there on the abolition of slavery. Afterwards, Charles Finney, a prominent professor of theology at Oberlin, denounced the Fosters for their Unitarian beliefs. Intrigued, Stone began to engage in classroom discussions about the Trinitarian-Unitarian controversy and ultimately decided that she was a Unitarian. Expelled from her childhood church, she affiliated with the Unitarian church.\n\nBefore her own marriage, Stone felt that women should be allowed to divorce drunken husbands, to formally end a \"loveless marriage\" so that \"a true love may grow up in the soul of the injured one from the full enjoyment of which no legal bond had a right to keep her ...Whatever is pure and holy, not only has a right to be, but it has a right also to be recognized, and further, I think it has no right not to be recognized.\" Stone's friends often felt differently about the issue; \"Nettee\" Brown wrote to Stone in 1853 that she was not ready to accept the idea, even if both parties wanted divorce. Stanton was less inclined to clerical orthodoxy; she was very much in favor of giving women the right to divorce, eventually coming to the view that the reform of marriage laws was more important than women's voting rights.\n\nIn the process of planning for women's rights conventions, Stone worked against Stanton to remove from any proposed platform the formal advocacy of divorce. Stone wished to keep the subject separate, to prevent the appearance of moral laxity. She pushed \"for the right of woman to the control of her own person as a moral, intelligent, accountable being.\" Other rights were certain to fall into place after women were given control of their own bodies. Years later, Stone's position on divorce would change.\n\nIn 1853, Stone drew large audiences with a lecture tour through several southern states. Former slave Frederick Douglass rebuked her in his abolitionist newspaper, accusing her of achieving success by putting her anti-slavery principles aside and speaking only of women's rights. Douglass later found Stone at fault for speaking at a whites-only Philadelphia lecture hall, but Stone insisted that she had replaced her planned speech that day with an appeal to the audience to boycott the facility. It took years before the two were reconciled.\n\nOn October 14, 1853, following the National Woman's Rights Convention held in Cleveland, Ohio, Stone and Lucretia Mott addressed Cincinnati's first women's rights meeting, arranged by Henry Blackwell, a local businessman from a family of capable women, who had taken an interest in Stone. After that successful meeting, Stone accepted Blackwell's offer to arrange a lecturing tour for her in the western states – considered then to be those west of Pennsylvania and Virginia. Over the following thirteen weeks, Stone gave over forty lectures in thirteen cities, during which a report to the \"New York Tribune\" said she was stirring the West on women's rights \"as it is seldom stirred on any subject whatsoever.\" After four lectures in Louisville, Stone was begged to repeat the entire course and told she was having more effect there than she could have anywhere else. An Indianapolis newspaper reported that Stone \"set about two-thirds of the women in the town crazy after women's rights and placed half the men in a similar predicament.\" St. Louis papers said her lectures attracted the largest crowds ever assembled there, filling the city's largest auditorium beyond its capacity of two thousand. Chicago papers praised her lectures as the best of the season, and said they were inspiring discussion and debate in the city's homes and meeting places. When Stone headed home in January, 1854, she left behind incalculable influence.\n\nFrom 1854 through 1858, Stone lectured on women's rights in Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New York, Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey, Washington, D.C., Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and Ontario. Elizabeth Cady Stanton would later write that \"Lucy Stone was the first speaker who really stirred the nation's heart on the subject of woman's wrongs.\"\n\nIn addition to being the women's rights movement's most prominent spokesperson, Lucy Stone led the movement's petitioning efforts. She initiated petition efforts in New England and several other states and assisted the petitioning efforts of state and local organizations in New York, Ohio, and Indiana.\n\nAfter petitioning the Massachusetts legislature from 1849 through 1852 for the right of women to vote and serve in public office, \nStone aimed her 1853 petitions at the convention that would meet on May 4, 1853, to revise the state constitution. Wendell Phillips drafted both the petition asking that the word \"male\" be stricken wherever it appeared in the constitution, and an appeal urging Massachusetts citizens to sign it. After canvassing the state for nine months, Stone sent the convention petitions bearing over five thousand signatures. On May 27, 1853, Stone and Phillips addressed the convention's Committee on Qualifications of Voters. In reporting Stone's hearing, the \"Liberator\" noted: \"Never before, since the world was made, in any country, has woman publicly made her demand in the hall of legislation to be represented in her own person, and to have an equal part in framing the laws and determining the action of government.\"\n\nStone called a New England Woman's Rights Convention in Boston on June 2, 1854, to expand her petitioning efforts. The convention adopted her resolution for petitioning all six New England legislatures, as well as her proposed form of petition, and it appointed a committee in each state to organize the work. In a speech before the second New England Woman's Rights Convention, held in June 1855, Stone urged that one reason women needed suffrage was to protect any gains achieved, reminding them that \"the next Legislature may undo all that the last have done for women.\" The convention adopted a resolution calling the ballot \"woman's sword and shield; the means of achieving and protecting all other civil rights\" and another urging the national convention to make suffrage petitioning its priority.\n\nThe next National Woman's Rights Convention met in Cincinnati on October 17 and 18, 1855. It was here that Stone delivered impromptu remarks that became famous as her \"disappointment\" speech. When a heckler interrupted the proceedings, calling female speakers \"a few disappointed women,\" Stone retorted that yes, she was indeed a \"disappointed woman.\" \"In education, in marriage, in religion, in everything, disappointment is the lot of woman. It shall be the business of my life to deepen this disappointment in every woman's heart until she bows down to it no longer.\" The convention adopted Stone's resolution calling for the circulation of petitions and saying it was \"the duty of women in their respective States to ask the legislators for the elective franchise.\" Following the convention, suffrage petitioning took place in the New England states, New York, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and Nebraska, with resultant legislative hearings or action in Nebraska and Wisconsin. Amelia Bloomer, recently moved to Iowa near the Nebraska border, took up the work in that area, while the Indiana Woman's Rights Society, at least one of whose officers was at the Cincinnati convention, directed the work in Indiana. Stone had helped launch the New York campaign at a state woman's rights convention in Saratoga Springs in August, and at the Cleveland convention recruited workers for it, as well as for the work in Illinois, Michigan and Ohio. Stone took charge of the work in Ohio, her new home state, drafting its petition, placing it in Ohio newspapers and circulating it during lectures across southern Ohio while her recruit worked in the northern part of the state. Stone also lectured in Illinois and Indiana in support of the petition drives there and personally introduced the work in Wisconsin, where she found volunteers to circulate the petition and legislators to introduce them in both houses of the legislature.\n\nAt the national convention of 1856, Stone presented a new strategy suggested by Antoinette Brown Blackwell to send a memorial to the various state legislatures signed by the officers of the National Woman's Rights Convention. Antoinette Brown had married Samuel Charles Blackwell on January 24, 1856, becoming Stone's sister-in-law in the process. Stone, Brown Blackwell and Ernestine Rose were appointed a committee to carry out the plan. Stone drafted and printed the appeal, and Brown Blackwell mailed it to twenty-five state legislatures. Indiana and Pennsylvania referred the memorial to select committees, while both Massachusetts and Maine granted hearings. On March 6, 1857, Stone, Wendell Phillips and James Freeman Clarke addressed the Judiciary Committee of the Massachusetts senate, and on March 10, Stone and Phillips addressed a select committee of the Maine legislature.\n\nOn July 4, 1856, in Viroqua, Wisconsin, Stone gave the first women's rights and anti-slavery speech delivered by a woman in the area.\n\nIn January 1858, Stone staged a highly publicized protest that took the issue of taxation without representation across the nation. The previous summer she and Blackwell had purchased a house in Orange, New Jersey, and when the first tax bill came, Stone returned it unpaid with the explanation that taxing women while denying them the right to vote was a violation of America's founding principles. On January 22, 1858, the city auctioned some of her household goods to pay the tax and attendant court costs. The following month, Stone and Blackwell spoke on taxation without representation before two large meetings in Orange, and circulated petitions asking the New Jersey legislature for woman suffrage. Stone's protest inspired other tax-paying women to action: some followed her example and refused to pay taxes, with one case reaching the Massachusetts Supreme Court in 1863, while others went to the polls to demand their right as tax-payers to vote.\n\nHenry Blackwell began a two-year courtship of Stone in the summer of 1853. Stone told him she did not wish to marry because she did not want to surrender control over her life and would not assume the legal position occupied by a married woman. Blackwell maintained that despite the law, couples could create a marriage of equal partnership, governed by their mutual agreement. They could also take steps to protect the wife against unjust laws, such as placing her assets in the hands of a trustee. He also believed that marriage would allow each partner to accomplish more than he or she could alone, and to show how he could help advance Stone's work, he arranged her highly successful western lecturing tour of 1853. Over an eighteen-month courtship conducted primarily through correspondence, Stone and Blackwell discussed the nature of marriage, actual and ideal, as well as their own natures and suitability for marriage. Stone gradually fell in love and in November 1854 agreed to marry Blackwell.\n\nStone and Blackwell developed a private agreement aimed at preserving and protecting Stone's financial independence and personal liberty. In monetary matters, they agreed that the marriage be like a business partnership, with the partners being \"joint proprietors of everything except the results of previous labors.\" Neither would have claim to lands belonging to the other, nor any obligation for the other's costs of holding them. While married and living together they would share earnings, but if they should separate, they would relinquish claim to the other's subsequent earnings. Each would have the right to will their property to whomever they pleased unless they had children. Over Blackwell's objections, Stone refused to be supported and insisted on paying half of their mutual expenses. In addition to financial independence, Stone and Blackwell agreed that each would enjoy personal independence and autonomy: \"Neither partner shall attempt to fix the residence, employment, or habits of the other, nor shall either partner feel bound to live together any longer than is agreeable to both.\" During their discussion of marriage, Stone had given Blackwell a copy of Henry C. Wright's book \"Marriage and Parentage; Or, The Reproductive Element in Man, as a Means to His Elevation and Happiness,\" and asked him to accept its principles as what she considered the relationship between husband and wife should be. Wright proposed that because women bore the results of sexual intercourse, wives should govern a couple's marital relations. In accordance with that view, Blackwell agreed that Stone would choose \"when, where and how often\" she would \"become a mother.\" In addition to this private agreement, Blackwell drew up a protest of laws, rules, and customs that conferred superior rights on husbands and, as part of the wedding ceremony, pledged never to avail himself of those laws.\n\nThe wedding took place at Stone's home in West Brookfield, Massachusetts, on May 1, 1855, with Stone's close friend and co-worker Thomas Wentworth Higginson officiating. Higginson sent a copy of Stone and Blackwell's Protest to the \"Worcester Spy\", and from there it spread across the country. While some commentators viewed it as a protest against marriage itself, others agreed that no woman should resign her legal existence without such formal protest against the despotism that forced her to forgo marriage and motherhood or submit to the degradation in which law placed a married woman. It inspired other couples to make similar protests part of their wedding ceremonies.\n\nStone viewed the tradition of wives abandoning their own surname to assume that of their husbands as a manifestation of the legal annihilation of a married woman's identity. Immediately after her marriage, with the agreement of her husband, she continued to sign correspondence as \"Lucy Stone\" or \"Lucy Stone – only.\" But during the summer, Blackwell tried to register the deed for property Stone purchased in Wisconsin, and the registrar insisted she sign it as \"Lucy Stone Blackwell.\" The couple consulted Blackwell's friend, Salmon P. Chase, a Cincinnati lawyer and future Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, who was not immediately able to answer their question about the legality of her name. So while continuing to sign her name as Lucy Stone in private correspondence, for eight months she signed her name as Lucy Stone Blackwell on public documents and allowed herself to be so identified in convention proceedings and newspaper reports. But upon receiving assurance from Chase that no law required a married woman to change her name, Stone made a public announcement at the May 7, 1856, convention of the American Anti-Slavery Society in Boston that her name remained Lucy Stone. In 1879, when Boston women were granted the franchise in school elections, Stone registered to vote. But officials notified her that she would not be allowed to vote unless she added \"Blackwell\" to her signature. This she refused to do, and so she was not able to vote. Because her time and energy were consumed with suffrage work, she did not challenge the action in a court of law.\n\nStone and Blackwell had one daughter, Alice Stone Blackwell, born September 14, 1857, who became a leader of the suffrage movement and wrote the first biography of her mother, \"Lucy Stone: Pioneer Woman Suffragist.\" In 1859, while the family was living temporarily in Chicago, Stone miscarried and lost a baby boy.\n\nAfter her marriage, from the summer of 1855 to the summer of 1857, Stone continued a full lecturing, petitioning, and organizing schedule.\nIn January 1856, Stone was accused in court, and spoke in defense of a rumor put forward by the prosecution that Stone gave a knife to former slave Margaret Garner, on trial for the killing of her own child to prevent it from being enslaved. Stone was said to have slipped the prisoner the knife so that Garner could kill herself if she was forced to return to slavery. Stone was referred to by the court as \"Mrs. Lucy Stone Blackwell\" and was asked if she wanted to defend herself; she preferred to address the assembly off the record after adjournment, saying \"...With my own teeth I would tear open my veins and let the earth drink my blood, rather than wear the chains of slavery. How then could I blame her for wishing her child to find freedom with God and the angels, where no chains are?\"\n\nThe birth of her daughter in September 1857, however, began to reduce the level of her activism. Stone had made preliminary arrangements for the 1857 national convention to be held in Providence, but because she would not be able to attend it, she handed responsibility to Susan B. Anthony and Thomas Wentworth Higginson. When the Panic of 1857 disrupted Anthony's plan to move the convention to Chicago, Stone made the announcement that the next National Woman's Rights Convention would be in May 1858. Anthony helped Stone arrange the 1858 convention and then took sole responsibility for the 1859 meeting. Elizabeth Cady Stanton took charge of the 1860 convention.\n\nStone hired a nursemaid to help care for her daughter, who was in poor health for several years, but she didn't trust her ability to provide proper care when Stone was absent. Stone eventually withdrew from most public work to stay at home with her child. She resigned from the Central Committee, which organized the annual women's rights conventions. She began to suffer from self-doubt and a lack of drive in addition to the debilitating headaches that had plagued her for years. She made only two public appearances during the Civil War (1861—1865): to attend the founding convention of the Women's Loyal National League and the celebration of the thirtieth anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society, both in 1863. Stone began to increase her reform activities back to a normal level after the Civil War had ended.\n\nAs a lifelong believer in nonresistance, Stone could not support the war effort as so many of her friends did. She could certainly support the drive to end slavery, however, which the war had made into a realistic possibility. In 1863, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony organized the Women's Loyal National League, the first national women's political organization in the U.S. It collected nearly 400,000 signatures on petitions to abolish slavery in the largest petition drive in the nation's history up to that time. Despite her reduced public activity, Stone agreed to preside over the League's founding convention, and she later agreed to manage its office for two weeks to give Anthony a badly-needed break. She declined, however, to go on lecture tours for the League.\n\nHenry Blackwell had for years worked with real estate investments. In 1864, amid wartime inflation, his investments began to pay off handsomely. Stone was enormously relieved to have the family freed from the debts that had been contracted to buy investment property. This major improvement in the family's finances enabled Blackwell to scale back his business efforts and devote more of his time to social reform activities.\n\nBeginning to ease back into public activity, Stone embarked on a lecture tour on women's rights in New York and New England in the autumn of 1865. She was still experiencing periods of self-doubt a year later, but, with Blackwell's encouragement, she traveled with him on a joint lecture tour in 1866.\n\nSlavery was abolished in December 1865 with the ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which raised questions about the future role of the American Anti-Slavery Society (AASS). In January 1866, Stone and Anthony traveled to an AASS meeting in Boston to propose a merger of the anti-slavery and women's movements into one that would campaign for equal rights for all citizens. The AASS, preferring to focus on the rights of African Americans, especially the newly freed slaves, rejected their proposal.\n\nIn May 1866, Anthony and Stanton organized the Eleventh National Women's Rights Convention, the first since before the Civil War began.\nIn a move similar to the proposal that had been made earlier to anti-slavery forces, the convention voted to transform itself into a new organization called the American Equal Rights Association (AERA), whose purpose was to campaign for the equal rights for all, especially the right of suffrage. Stone did not attend the AERA's founding convention, most likely for fear of the recent cholera outbreak in New York City, the meeting's location. She was nevertheless elected to the new organization's executive committee. Blackwell was elected as the AERA's recording secretary.\n\nIn 1867, Stone and Blackwell opened the AERA's difficult campaign in Kansas in support of referenda in that state that would enfranchise both African Americans and women. They led the effort for three months before turning the work over to others and returning home. Neither of the Kansas referenda was approved by the voters. Disagreements over tactics used during the Kansas campaign contributed to a growing split in the women's movement, which was formalized after the AERA convention in 1869.\n\nThe immediate cause of the split was the proposed Fifteenth Amendment, which would prohibit the denial of suffrage because of race. In one of their most controversial moves, Anthony and Stanton campaigned against the amendment, insisting that women and African Americans should be enfranchised at the same time. They said that by effectively enfranchising all men while excluding all women, the amendment would create an \"aristocracy of sex\" by giving constitutional authority to the idea that men were superior to women.\n\nStone supported the amendment. She had expected, however, that progressive forces would push for the enfranchisment of African Americans and women at the same time and was distressed when they did not. In 1867, she wrote to Abby Kelley Foster, an abolitionist, to protest the plan to enfranchise black men first. \"O Abby\", she wrote, \"it is a terrible mistake you are all making... There is no other name given by which this country can be saved, but that of woman.\"\nIn a dramatic debate with Frederick Douglass at the AERA convention in 1869, Stone argued that suffrage for women was more important than suffrage for African Americans. She nevertheless supported the amendment, saying, \"But I thank God for that XV. Amendment, and hope that it will be adopted in every State. I will be thankful in my soul if \"any\" body can get out of the terrible pit. But I believe that the safety of the government would be more promoted by the admission of woman as an element of restoration and harmony than the negro.\" Stone and her allies expected that their active support for the amendment to enfranchise black men would lead their abolitionist friends in Congress to push for an amendment to enfranchise women as the next step, but that did not happen.\n\nHenry Blackwell, Stone's husband and an important figure in the suffrage movement in the coming years, also supported the amendment. His special interest, however, which he pursued for decades, was in convincing southern politicians that the enfranchisement of women would help to ensure white supremacy in their region. In 1867, he published an open letter to southern legislatures, assuring them that if both blacks and women were enfranchised, \"the political supremacy of your white race will remain unchanged\" and \"the black race would gravitate by the law of nature toward the tropics.\" Stone's reaction to this idea is unknown.\n\nThe AERA essentially collapsed after its acrimonious convention in May 1869, and two competing woman suffrage organizations were created in its aftermath. Two days after the convention, Anthony, Stanton and their allies formed the National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA). In November 1869, Lucy Stone, Julia Ward Howe and their allies formed the competing American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA). The AWSA initially was the larger of the two organizations, but it declined in strength during the 1880s.\n\nEven after the Fifteenth Amendment was ratified in 1870, differences between the two organizations remained. The AWSA worked almost exclusively for women's suffrage while the NWSA initially worked on a wide range of issues, including divorce reform and equal pay for women. The AWSA included both men and women among its leadership while the NWSA was led by women. The AWSA worked for suffrage mostly at the state level while the NWSA worked more at the national level. The AWSA cultivated an image of respectability while the NWSA sometimes used confrontational tactics.\n\nIn 1870, at the twentieth anniversary celebration of the first National Women's Rights Convention in Worcester, Stanton spoke for three hours rallying the crowd for women's right to divorce. By then, Stone's position on the matter had shifted significantly. Personal differences between Stone and Stanton came to the fore on the issue, with Stone writing \"We believe in \"marriage for life\", and deprecate all this loose, pestiferous talk in favor of \"easy divorce.\"\" Stone made it clear that those wishing for \"free divorce\" were not associated with Stone's organization AWSA, headed at that time by Reverend Henry Ward Beecher. Stone wrote against 'free love:' \"Be not deceived—\"free love means free lust.\"\"\n\nThis editorial position would come back to haunt Stone. Also in 1870, Elizabeth Roberts Tilton told her husband Theodore Tilton that she had been carrying on an adulterous relation with his good friend Henry Ward Beecher. Theodore Tilton published an editorial saying that Beecher \"has at a most unseemly time of life been detected in improper intimacies with certain ladies of his congregation.\" Tilton also informed Stanton about the alleged affair, and Stanton passed the information to Victoria Woodhull. Woodhull, a free love advocate, printed innuendo about Beecher, and began to woo Tilton, convincing him to write a book of her life story from imaginative material that she supplied. In 1871, Stone wrote to a friend \"my one wish in regard to Mrs. Woodhull is, that [neither] she nor her ideas, may be so much as heard of at our meeting.\" Woodhull's self-serving activities were attracting disapproval from both centrist AWSA and radical NWSA. To divert criticism from herself, Woodhull published a denunciation of Beecher in 1872 saying that he practiced free love in private while speaking out against it from the pulpit. This caused a sensation in the press, and resulted in an inconclusive legal suit and a subsequent formal inquiry lasting well into 1875. The furor over adultery and the friction between various camps of women's rights activists took focus away from legitimate political aims. Harry Blackwell wrote to Stone from Michigan where he was working toward putting woman suffrage into the state constitution, saying \"This Beecher-Tilton affair is playing the deuce with [woman suffrage] in Michigan. No chance of success this year I fancy.\"\n\nIn 1870, Stone and Blackwell moved from New Jersey to Dorchester, Massachusetts, which today is a neighborhood of Boston just south of downtown. There they purchased Pope's Hill, a seventeen-room house with extensive grounds and several outbuildings. Many of the town's women had been active in the Dorchester Female Anti-Slavery Society and, by 1870, a number of local women were suffragists.\n\nAt her new home, Stone worked closely with the New England Woman Suffrage Association (NEWSA), the first major political organization in the U.S. with women's suffrage as its goal. Two years earlier she had traveled to Boston to participate in its founding convention and had been elected to its executive committee. In 1877, she became its president and served in that position until her death in 1893.\n\nIn 1870, Stone and Blackwell founded the \"Woman's Journal\", an eight-page weekly newspaper based in Boston. Originally intended primarily to voice the concerns of the NEWSA and the AWSA, by the 1880s it had become an unofficial voice of the suffrage movement as a whole. Stone edited the journal for the rest of her life, assisted by her husband and their daughter Alice Stone Blackwell. Stone did not collect a salary for her work on the paper, which required continual financial support. One of her greatest challenges was raising money to keep it going. Its circulation reached a peak of 6,000, although in 1878 it was 2,000 less than it had been two years earlier.\n\nAfter the AWSA and NWSA merged to form the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA) in 1890, the \"Woman's Journal\" became its official voice and eventually the basis for a newspaper with a much wider circulation. In 1917, at a time when victory for women's suffrage was coming closer, Carrie Chapman Catt, leader of the NAWSA, said, \"There can be no overestimating the value to the suffrage cause of the \"Woman's Journal\"... The suffrage success of to-day is not conceivable without the \"Woman's Journal\"'s part in it.\n\nIn 1877, Stone was asked by Rachel Foster Avery to come assist Colorado activists in the organization of a popular referendum campaign with the aim of gaining suffrage for Coloradan women. Together, Stone and Blackwell worked the northern half of the state in late summer, while Susan Anthony traveled the less-promising rough-and-tumble southern half. Patchwork and scattered support was reported by activists, with some areas more receptive. Latino voters proved largely uninterested in voting reform; some of that resistance was blamed on the extreme opposition to the measure voiced by the Roman Catholic bishop of Colorado. All but a handful of politicians in Colorado ignored the measure, or actively fought it. Stone concentrated on convincing Denver voters during the October ballot, but the measure lost heavily, with 68% voting against it. Married working men showed the greatest support, and young single men the least. Blackwell called it \"The Colorado Lesson\", writing that \"Woman suffrage can never be carried by a popular vote, without a political party behind it.\"\n\nIn 1879, after Stone organized a petition by suffragists across the state, Massachusetts women were given strictly delimited voting rights: a woman who could prove the same qualifications as a male voter was allowed to cast her vote for members of the school board. Stone applied to the voting board in Boston but was required to sign her husband's surname as her own. She refused, and never participated in that vote.\n\nIn 1887, eighteen years after the rift formed in the American women's rights movement, Stone proposed a merger of the two groups. Plans were drawn up, and, at their annual meetings, propositions were heard and voted on, then passed to the other group for evaluation. By 1890, the organizations resolved their differences and merged to form the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA). Stone was too weak with heart problems and respiratory illness to attend its first convention but was elected chair of the executive committee. Stanton was president of the new organization, but Anthony, who had the title of vice president, was its leader in practice.\nStarting early in January 1891, Carrie Chapman Catt visited Stone repeatedly at Pope's Hill, for the purpose of learning from Stone about the ways of political organizing. Stone had previously met Catt at an Iowa state woman's suffrage convention in October, 1889, and had been impressed at her ambition and sense of presence, saying \"Mrs. Chapman will be heard from yet in this movement.\" Stone mentored Catt the rest of that winter, giving her a wealth of information about lobbying techniques and fund-raising. Catt later used the teaching to good effect in leading the final drive to gain women the vote in 1920.\n\nCatt, Stone and Blackwell went together to the January, 1892 NAWSA convention in Washington, DC. Along with Isabella Beecher Hooker, Stone, Stanton and Anthony, the \"triumvirate\" of women's suffrage, were called away from the convention's opening hours by an unexpected woman suffrage hearing before the United States House Committee on the Judiciary. Stone told the assembled congressmen \"I come before this committee with the sense which I always feel, that we are handicapped as women in what we try to do for ourselves by the single fact that we have no vote. This cheapens us. You do not care so much for us as if we had votes...\" Stone argued that men should work to pass laws for equality in property rights between the sexes. Stone demanded an eradication of coverture, the folding of a wife's property into that of her husband. Stone's impromptu speech paled in comparison to Stanton's brilliant outpouring which preceded hers. Stone later published Stanton's speech in its entirety in the \"Woman's Journal\" as \"Solitude of Self\". Back at the NAWSA convention, Anthony was elected president, with Stanton and Stone becoming honorary presidents.\n\nIn 1892, Stone was convinced to sit for a portrait in sculpture, rendered by Anne Whitney, sculptor and poet. Stone had previously protested the proposed portrait for more than a year, saying that the funds to engage an artist would be better spent on suffrage work. Stone finally yielded to pressure from Frances Willard, the New England Women's Club and some of her friends and neighbors in the Boston area, and sat while Whitney produced a bust. In February 1893, Stone invited her brother Frank and his wife Sarah to come see the bust, before it was shipped to Chicago for display at the upcoming World's Columbian Exposition.\n\nStone went with her daughter to Chicago in May 1893 and gave her last public speeches at the World's Congress of Representative Women where she saw a strong international involvement in women's congresses, with almost 500 women from 27 countries speaking at 81 meetings, and attendance topping 150,000 at the week-long event. Stone's immediate focus was on state referenda under consideration in New York and Nebraska. Stone presented a speech she had prepared entitled \"The Progress of Fifty Years\" wherein she described the milestones of change, and said \"I think, with never-ending gratitude, that the young women of today do not and can never know at what price their right to free speech and to speak at all in public has been earned.\" Stone met with Carrie Chapman Catt and Abigail Scott Duniway to form a plan for organizing in Colorado, and Stone attended two days of meetings about getting a woman suffrage drive restarted in Kansas. Stone and her daughter returned home to Pope's Hill on May 28.\nThose who knew Stone well thought her voice was lacking strength. In August when she and her husband Harry wanted to take part in more meetings at the Exposition, she was too weak to go. Stone was diagnosed as suffering from advanced stomach cancer in September. She wrote final letters to friends and relatives. Having \"prepared for death with serenity and an unwavering concern for the women's cause,\" Lucy Stone died on October 18, 1893, at the age of 75. At her funeral three days later, 1,100 people crowded the church, and hundreds more stood silently outside. Six women and six men served as pallbearers, including sculptor Anne Whitney, and Stone's old abolitionist friends Thomas Wentworth Higginson and Samuel Joseph May. Mourners lined the streets for a sight of the funeral procession, and front-page banner headlines ran in news accounts. Stone's death was the most widely reported of any American woman's up to that time.\n\nAccording to her wishes, her body was cremated, making her the first person cremated in Massachusetts, though a wait of over two months was undertaken while the crematorium at Forest Hills Cemetery could be completed. Stone's remains are inurned at Forest Hills; a chapel there is named after her.\n\nLucy Stone's refusal to take her husband's name, as an assertion of her own rights, was controversial then, and is largely what she is remembered for today. Women who continue to use their birth name after marriage are still occasionally known as \"Lucy Stoners\" in the United States. In 1921, the Lucy Stone League was founded in New York City by Ruth Hale, described in 1924 by \"Time\" as the \"'Lucy Stone'-spouse\" of Heywood Broun. The League was re-instituted in 1997.\nSusan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Matilda Joslyn Gage and Ida Husted Harper began in 1876 to write the \"History of Woman Suffrage\". They planned for one volume but finished four before the death of Anthony in 1906, and two more afterward. The first three volumes chronicled the beginnings of the women's rights movement, including the years that Stone was active. Because of differences between Stone and Stanton that had been highlighted in the schism between NWSA and AWSA, Stone's place in history was marginalized in the work. The text was used as the standard scholarly resource on 19th-century U.S. feminism for much of the 20th century, causing Stone's extensive contribution to be overlooked in many histories of women's causes.\n\nOn August 13, 1968, the 150th anniversary of her birth, the U.S. Postal Service honored Stone with a 50¢ postage stamp in the Prominent Americans series. The image was adapted from a photograph included in Alice Stone Blackwell's biography of Stone.\n\nIn 1986, Stone was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 1999, a series of six tall marble panels with a bronze bust in each was added to the Massachusetts State House; the busts are of Stone, Florence Luscomb, Mary Kenney O'Sullivan, Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin, Sarah Parker Remond, and Dorothea Dix. As well, two quotations from each of those women (including Stone) are etched on their own marble panel, and the wall behind all the panels has wallpaper made of six government documents repeated over and over, with each document being related to a cause of one or more of the women.\n\nIn 2000, Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls included a song entitled \"Lucystoners\" on her first solo recording, \"Stag\".\n\nAn administration and classroom building on Livingston Campus at Rutgers University in New Jersey is named for Lucy Stone. Warren, Massachusetts contains a Lucy Stone Park, along the Quaboag River. Anne Whitney's 1893 bust of Lucy Stone is on display in Boston's Faneuil Hall building.\nShe is featured on the Boston Women's Heritage Trail.\n\nThe Lucy Stone Home Site is owned and managed by The Trustees of Reservations, a non-profit land conservation and historic preservation organization dedicated to preserving natural and historic places in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The site includes 61 acres of forested land on the side of Coys Hill in West Brookfield, Massachusetts. Although the farmhouse in which Stone was born and married burned to the ground in 1950, its ruins are at the center of the property. At the time of Stone's wedding, both her parents and a married brother and his family lived in the two-and-one-half-story house, and family descendants continued to live there until 1936. In 1915, a pilgrimage of suffragists placed a memorial tablet on the house, which read: \"This house was the birthplace of Lucy Stone, pioneer advocate of equal rights for women. Born August 13, 1818. Married May 1, 1855, died October 18, 1893. In grateful memory Massachusetts suffragists placed this tablet August 13, 1915.\" That tablet, severely damaged but surviving the 1950 fire, is now in the Quaboag Historical Society Museum. After the fire, the surrounding farmland was abandoned and left to revert to forest, and it is now used for hunting and harvesting timber. The Trustees acquired the home site in 2002 and have been maintaining the property ever since.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29797063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29797063", "title": "Makoa", "text": "Makoa\n\nThe Makoa (or Masombika) are an ethnic group in Madagascar descended from slaves traded through the major slave trading ports of northern Mozambique in an area mainly populated by the Makua people. They are among the last African diaspora communities in the world to issue from the slave trade. They are sometimes classified as a subgroup of the fishing peoples known as the Vezo (who are themselves a subset of the Sakalava people), although the Makoa maintain a distinct identity, one reinforced by their larger physical stature and historic employment as police officers by the French colonial administration.\n\nThe Makoa (called Masombika in the central highlands around the capital of Antananarivo) are an ethnic group in Madagascar descended from slaves traded through the major slave trading ports of northern Mozambique in an area mainly populated by the Makua people. They are one of the latest African diaspora groups in the world to be created as a result of the slave trade. They are sometimes classified as a subgroup of the fishing peoples known as the Vezo (who are themselves a subset of the Sakalava people), although the Makoa maintain a distinct identity, one reinforced by their larger physical stature and historic employment as police officers by the French colonial administration. The term Makoa is used today in Madagascar to refer not only to those who are believed descendants of Makua slaves, but also those who are very dark skinned, and those who are physically robust and powerful.\n\nSlave trading was a major source of wealth for Malagasy kings since at least the 16th century, when the first people from Mozambique arrived in the western part of Madagascar. They were not slaves, but rather migrants relocating to Madagascar to escape the slave trading that was then ravaging the eastern coast of Africa. The largest slave trading ports in Mozambique were located in the north, an area traditionally populated by the Makua people, and while not all the slaves exported from these ports were Makua, the name came to be associated with slaves exported from the area. Madagascar was principally an exporter of slaves, however, as kings sold fellow Malagasy captured in conflicts and slave raids among enemy villages to European and Arab traders. In 1819, King Radama I, ruler of the Kingdom of Imerina that had come to dominate two thirds of the island of Madagascar from its capital at Antananarivo, capitulated to the entreaties of British diplomats to abolish the exportation of Malagasy slaves. The demand for slaves within Madagascar nonetheless remained strong, leading domestic slave traders to supplement those captured in Merina military expeditions to coastal provinces with others imported from Mozambique; clandestine importation of Makoa slaves increased dramatically over the course of the 19th century. The town of Maintirano, between Mahajanga and Morondava on the west coast, was a major hub of the illegal Mozambican slave trade. An estimated total of 650,000 Makoa slaves were exported from Mozambique to Madagascar in total, with as many as 30% of these being resold and exported to other western Indian Ocean islands.\n\nOn 20 June 1877, Prime Minister Rainilaiarivony under Queen Ranavalona II passed a law liberating all Makoa slaves. An estimated 150,000 Makoa were emancipated in territories under the control of the Kingdom of Imerina; in other areas of the west coast beyond Merina administrative reach, the illegal slave trade persisted. The town of Morondava, under Merina administration, enforced the liberation of Makoa slaves, who grouped together to form their own neighborhoods within the city and established villages around its periphery. Makoa slaves from territory outside Merina control who managed to escape from their masters fled to Morondava to rejoin their free counterparts. Many joined the Norwegian Lutheran Mission that was active in Morondava in the late 19th century. In the 1880s, a number of Makoa solicited the aid of the Norwegian missionaries to help repatriate them to Mozambique. Over thirty years many Makoa in Morondava organized to return home, whether by building boats and rafts or by raising funds for passage on a ship. Norwegian records indicate that at least a few were successful in returning to Africa. Importation of Makoa slaves continued along portions of the west coast beyond Merina reach until the French colonized Madagascar in 1896 and outlawed all forms of slavery on the island.\n\nThroughout the colonial period, life in Makoa villages reflected strong and enduring ties to the traditions left behind in Mozambique: language, dance, music, food, storytelling and other cultural features were in evidence. Inhabitants of the villages crafted furniture, jewelry, utensils and musical instruments (particularly including drums) of the types used in Mozambique. Certain Makoa cultural practices were adopted by the neighboring Sakalava people, including facial and body tattooing. Today, Makoa villages and neighborhoods are large and preserve a distinct identity relative to the surrounding communities, although most of the cultural practices have been deliberately abandoned or forgotten.\n\nWithin Makoa society, a three level caste system emerged to replicate that predominant in larger Malagasy society. A slave master would typically designate a leader of the Makoa, who took the title \"ampanjaka\" (king), as well as higher status slaves and lower status ones.\n\nThe Makoa speak a dialect of the Malagasy language, which is a branch of the Malayo-Polynesian language group derived from the Barito languages, spoken in southern Borneo. Historically they spoke Emakhuwa, the language spoken in northern Mozambique; church hymns and portions of the Bible were translated to Emakhuwa by Makoa Lutheran converts. There are several known Emakhuwa language documents written by Makoa in Madagascar that were carefully preserved by family and community members. Today, no living Makoa in Madagascar continue to speak this language as their mother tongue. \n\nThe rap group Makoa claims to valorize an \"Afro-Malagasy\" identity associated with the Makoa people. Although the members of the group are not themselves Makoa by ethnicity, the popularity of the group and its inclusive message has contributed to rehabilitating the image of the Makoa in the popular imagination.\n"}
{"id": "2593764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2593764", "title": "Mancuerda", "text": "Mancuerda\n\nMancuerda was a method of torture. A tight cord was wound around the arms of the condemned. The executioner would then throw his entire weight backwards, or the pressure would be exerted by a lever. \n\nThe cord cut through skin and muscle directly to the bone. Additional pain was produced by the fact that the body of the prisoner was stretched as in a rack, and the belt or girdle attached to the waist also contributed further to the suffering.\n\nThe procedure was repeated six or eight times, on different parts of the arms. People subjected to such torture usually fainted from its effects.\n\nGiovanni II Bentivoglio, tyrant of Bologna, is said to have subjected the astrologer Luca Gaurico to this method of torture after he was unhappy with a prediction that Gaurico had made. \n\n"}
{"id": "29735296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29735296", "title": "Masguda Shamsutdinova", "text": "Masguda Shamsutdinova\n\nMasguda Islamovna Shamsutdinova (; born June 1, 1955 in Kshlau-Yelga, Bashkir ASSR) is a Tatar writer and composer.\n\nMasguda Shamsutdinova was born in Bashkortostan. She studied music in Kazakhstan and graduated from Kazan State Conservatoire in the Republic of Tatarstan. She continued her studies at the Tatar History Institute and St. Petersburg State University and received a Ph.D in 2002. The same year Shamsutdinova moved to Seattle, Washington, where she lives and works.\n\n\nShamsutdinova's compositions are influenced by Tartar folk music. She composes chamber and symphony music, and for film soundtracks. Selected works include:\n\nShamsutdinova's works have been recorded and issued on media, including:\n\nOther publications include:\n"}
{"id": "2286913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2286913", "title": "Matagalpa language", "text": "Matagalpa language\n\nMatagalpa is an extinct Misumalpan language formerly spoken in the central highlands of Nicaragua. The language became extinct in the nineteenth century, and only few short wordlists remain. It was closely related to Cacaopera. The ethnic group, which numbers about 20,000, now speaks Spanish.\n"}
{"id": "35435862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35435862", "title": "Mazhory", "text": "Mazhory\n\nMazhory (, ; which roughly translates as \"the superior ones\") is a slang term used in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet countries for children of privileged people, who take advantage of their inborn privileges (nepotism, cronyism, avoiding due punishment, etc.), often in an arrogant and abusive way.\n\nParticularly in Ukraine the term \"Mazhory\" is used to describe children of high-ranking, mid-ranking, and sometimes even seemingly low-ranking officials in the government, police force, judiciary or army. This term is also used to describe officials themselves as well as wealthy businessmen and their children. They are seen to lead easier lives than normal people, due to their parents' influence. Often they are able to avoid punishment, or receive less severe punishments than usual, when committing crimes. This phenomenon is also known in other countries of the former Soviet Union.\n\nIn Russia the term \"Mazhory\" is connected with young socialites rather than with abuse of power; but the term is also connected with criminal misdemeanour of advantaged youth. The term \"Golden Youth\" () is more commonly used in Russia to describe this advantaged youth.\n\nIn the Soviet Union the term \"Mazhory\" was connected with children of high-ranked officials who, through their parents, had greater access to Western products than the average young person and could travel abroad more easily.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3800060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3800060", "title": "Nation branding", "text": "Nation branding\n\nNation branding aims to measure, build and manage the reputation of countries (closely related to place branding). In the book \"Diplomacy in a Globalizing World: Theories and Practices\", the authors define nation branding as “the application of corporate marketing concepts and techniques to countries, in the interests of enhancing their reputation in international relations.” Many nations try to make brands in order to build relationships between different actors that are not restricted to nations. It extends to public and private sectors in a nation and helps with nationalism. States also want to participate in multilateral projects. Some approaches applied, such as an increasing importance on the symbolic value of products, have led countries to emphasise their distinctive characteristics. The branding and image of a nation-state \"and the successful transference of this image to its exports - is just as important as what they actually produce and sell.\"This is also referred to as country-of-origin effect. \n\nNation branding is a developing field in which scholars continue their search for a unified theoretical framework. Many nations aim to improve their country's standing, as the image and reputation of a nation can dramatically influence its economic vitality. They seek to attract tourism and investment capital, increase exports, attract a talented and creative workforce, and enhance their cultural and political influence in the world.\nDifferent ways that nation project their nation brand include export, foreign direct investment, and tourism. One example of exporting products is that the country Germany is known for their motor industry because famous car companies like Mercedes, Audi, and BMW are German companies. An example of foreign direct investments that help the nation brand are US companies building maquiladoras and other European countries having factories in different countries.\n\nNation branding appears to be practiced by many countries, including the United States, Canada, France, United Kingdom (where it is officially referred to as public diplomacy), Taiwan, Malaysia, Japan, China, South Korea, Singapore, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Israel and most Western European countries. An early example of this was the Cool Britannia approach of the early days of the New Labour government (following the \"Britain (TM)\" pamphlet by Demos's Mark Leonard), though this has since been replaced by a more credible Public Diplomacy Board. Cool Japan is a newer initiative aimed at promoting Japan's creative industries. There is increasing interest in the concept from poorer states on the grounds that an enhanced image might create more favorable conditions for foreign direct investment, tourism, trade and even political relations with other states. Developing nations such as Tanzania and Colombia are creating smaller nation branding programs aimed at increased overall image and with the case of Colombia, changing international perception.\nNation branding is seen as a part of Sweden's public diplomacy, especially with Brand Sweden. Sweden uses two main institutions, called the Utrikesdepartementet and the Swedish Institute, to study their nation branding. They wanted to present a good image through the press and also collect different reports on Sweden’s representations abroad. Different events and campaigns were also made to promote Brand Sweden, one example being the House of Sweden which was an embassy in the US. Another campaign was the Second House of Sweden which used the internet to introduce Sweden’s embassy virtually. Researchers in Sweden also studied the Nation Brand Index (NBI) results to collect data.\n\nNation branding can be approached in academics as a field in social sciences, political sciences, humanities, communication, marketing and international relations.\nScholars such as Evan H. Potter at the University of Ottawa have conceptualized nation brands as a form of national soft power. All efforts by government (at any level) to support the nation brand - either directly or indirectly - becomes public diplomacy.\n\nAnti-globalisation proponents often claim that globalisation diminishes and threatens local diversity, but there is evidence that in order to compete against the backdrop of global cultural homogeneity, nations strive to accentuate and promote local distinctiveness as a competitive advantage.\n\nThe concept of measuring global perceptions of countries across several dimensions (culture, governance, people, exports, tourism, investment and immigration) was developed by Simon Anholt. His original survey, the Anholt Nation Brands Index, was launched in 2005 and fielded four times a year. Today it is fielded and published once a year in partnership with GfK, named the Anholt-GfK Nation Brands Index, using a panel of 20,000 people in 20 countries to monitor the global perceptions of countries. There is also an Anholt-GfK Roper City Brands Index. \n\nBrand Finance produces an annual Brand Finance Nation Brands table, in which 100 brands are ranked according to national brand value. This is based on the royalty relief methodology and takes into account the brand strength of individual countries. \n\nFuturebrand publishes the Country Brand Index every year, which includes an overall ranking of the 75 countries and rankings by dimension, FutureBrand collected quantitative and qualitative data from Approximately 2,500 opinion-formers and frequent international business or leisure travellers in 17 countries (USA, Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, UK, Germany, France, Russia, Turkey, South Africa, UAE, India, China, Thailand, Japan and Australia). complete perception dashboards for the top five country brands, regional leaders, and 'ones to watch' for the future. Futurebrand tests a global research sample based on the Hierarchical Decision Model (HDM) which involves determining an individual's awareness, familiarity, association, and preference towards a country's brand. In their 2018-19 ranking, the top 5 nations brands were (ranked from first to fifth) Germany, Switzerland, Japan, Sweden, and Canada.\n\n\"Monocle\" magazine released its third annual Soft Power Survey in 2012. The latest edition of the survey was launched in 2013 \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "243061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243061", "title": "Nivkh language", "text": "Nivkh language\n\nNivkh or Gilyak (; self-designation: Нивхгу диф \"Nivxgu dif\", ) is a language spoken in Outer Manchuria, in the basin of the Amgun (a tributary of the Amur), along the lower reaches of the Amur itself, and on the northern half of Sakhalin. \"Gilyak\" is the Manchu appellation. Its speakers are known as the Nivkh people.\n\nThe population of ethnic Nivkhs has been reasonably stable over the past century, with 4,549 Nivkhs counted in 1897, and 4,673 in 1989. However, the number of native speakers of the Nivkh language among these has dropped from 100% to 23.3% in the same period, so that there are now just over 1,000 first-language speakers left.\n\nNivkh is not known to be related to any other language, making it a language isolate. For classification convenience, it is included in the group of Paleosiberian languages. Many words in the Nivkh language bear a certain resemblance to words of similar meaning in other Paleosiberian languages, Ainu, Korean, or Tungusic languages, but no regular sound correspondences have been discovered to systematically account for the vocabularies of these various languages, so any lexical similarities are considered to be due to chance or to borrowing.\n\nThe Nivkh language is included in the controversial Eurasiatic languages hypothesis by Joseph Greenberg. Michael Fortescue has suggested in 1998 that Nivkh may be related to the Mosan languages, and later, in 2011, he has argued that Nivkh, which he also refers to as an \"isolated Amuric language\", is related to the Chukotko-Kamchatkan languages, forming a Chukotko-Kamchatkan-Amuric language family. More recently, Sergei Nikolaev has argued in two papers for a systematic relationship between Nivkh and the Algic languages of North America and a secondary relationship between these two together and the Wakashan languages of coastal British Columbia.\n\nProto-Nivkh, the proto-language ancestral to the modern-day Nivkh language varieties, has been reconstructed by Fortescue (2016).\n\nThe Nivkh people have lived, by many accounts for thousands of years, on the island of Sakhalin and the Amur River. They maintained trade with the neighboring Ainu, Japanese, and Mongolian, until Russian contact, which began in the 17th century. The 19th century shows the first recorded decline of Nivkh numbers, with official estimates dropping from 1856 to 1889. This coincided with smallpox epidemics and the expansion of Sakhalin's prisoner population, as Russia began sending groups of its convicts to Sakhalin in 1873. At this time, reportedly few Nivkh spoke Russian.\n\nRevolutionary and post-revolutionary Russia accorded large changes for the Nivkh. The 1920s ushered in years of guerilla fighting in the area, Russians against Japanese, ending in 1925, when Japan ceded Sakhalin to the Soviets. The violence lead to Nivkh deaths, as the area's resources were depleted and disease spread. Later, Stalin's policy of collectivization was imposed on indigenous economies, and in many cases, drove Nivkh individuals to hired labor, marking a departure from traditional means of subsistence. Many Nivkh were forcibly displaced from their more widely spread settlements to Nogliki, a small city, in the process of centralization. The traditional Nivkh way of life was gradually and sometimes forcibly converted to a Soviet way of life, as changes in subsistence, diet, dwellings, and education have resulted.\n\nNivkh is divided into four dialects, the Amur dialect, the North Sakhalin dialect, the South Sakhalin dialect, and the East Sakhalin dialect. The lexical and phonological differences between the dialect spoken by the Nivkhs of the Amur River basin and the dialect spoken by the Nivkhs of Sakhalin Island are so great that some linguists have classified them as two distinct languages belonging to a small Nivkh language family. Other linguists have emphasized the high degree of variability of usage among all Nivkhs; even within the Amur or Sakhalin dialect zone, there is said to be great diversity depending on the village, clan, or even individual speaker.\n\nFortescue (2016) notes that the Amur, East Sakhalin, and South Sakhalin dialects have low intelligibility with each other, considers them to be separate languages.\n\nNivkh is an agglutinating synthetic language. It has a developed case system, as well as other grammatical markers, but no grammatical gender. The basic word order of Nivkh is subject–object–verb, the subject being frequently omitted in speech. Nivkh is notable for the high degree of incorporation between words. For example, morphemes that express spatial relationships (prepositions or postpositions in many other languages) are incorporated into the noun to which they relate. Words consist of easily definable roots and productive grammatical morphemes, most of which are suffixes. Nivkh has no adjectives, but rather verbs that describe a state of being. There are two verb tenses: non-future and future. The non-future form may combine with adverbials, as well as context, to indicate a time frame.\n\nAs Russian has become the dominant language in all spheres of life, Nivkh grammar has changed in the last century. For example, Nivkh has recently begun to mark plurals on counting nouns and pairs, a change that originated from the grammar rules of Russian. However, it has been postulated that due to the vastly differing grammatical structures of the two tongues, grammatical interference has not been extensive. Simplification has occurred past borrowed Russian structure, though; due to disuse of the language and a changing culture, many of the complex morphological aspects of Nivkh have been simplified or fallen out of use. In a process referred to as obsolescence, things like the distinction between the morpheme for counting sledges and the morpheme for counting fishnets has disappeared, with speakers opting to use more general categories of counting numbers or other descriptors.\n\nThe labial fricatives are weakly articulated, and have been described as both bilabial and labiodental . The palatal stops may have some degree of affrication, as . After nasals or , the unaspirated stops become voiced . Unlike consonant alternation, this occurs also within a morpheme. The Amur dialect deletes some word-final nasals, which leads to voiced stops occurring also word-initially.\n\nNivkh's phonemic distinction between velar and uvular fricatives ( vs. and vs. ) is rare among the world’s languages. These sounds do occur in a great deal of languages, but usually they are interchangeable.\n\nNivkh features a process of consonant alternation not unlike in Celtic languages, in which morpheme-initial stops alternate with fricatives and trills:\n\nThis occurs when a morpheme is preceded by another morpheme within the same phrase (e.g. a prefix or an adjunct), unless the preceding morpheme ends itself in a fricative or trill, or in a nasal or .\n\nOnly the morpheme-initial position is affected: other clusters ending in a stop are possible within a morpheme (e.g. \"man\").\n\nIn some transitive verbs, the process has been noted to apparently run in reverse (fricatives/trills fortiting to stops, with the same distribution). This has been taken a distinct process, but has also been explained to be fundamentally the same, with the citation form of these verbs containing an underlying stop, lenited due to the presence of a former \"i-\" prefix (which still survives in the citation form of other verbs, where it causes regular consonant alternation). Initial fricatives in nouns never change.\n\nThe vowel system of Nivkh is unusual, being described by Ian Maddieson as \"defective.\" It is actually a rotated system in which a gap in the mid front region of the vowel space is compensated for by moving vowels around. The centralised has been described by Maddieson (1984) as complementing a gap caused by the lack of an ordinary mid front vowel.\n\nThe mid front vowel expected in a five-vowel system may have in the past developed into a close-to-mid front unrounded diphthong, represented in Maddieson's description of the language as .\n\nStress can fall on any syllable, but tends to be on the first; there is dialectal variation, and minimal pairs distinguished by stress seem to be rare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13802703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13802703", "title": "Origins of Falkland Islanders", "text": "Origins of Falkland Islanders\n\nFalkland Islanders (also called \"Kelpers\", \"Falklanders\" or \"Malvineros\" and \"Malvinenses\" in Spanish) derive from various origins. Earliest among these are the numerically small but internationally diverse early 19th century inhabitants of the Falkland Islands, comprising and descended in part from settlers brought by Luis Vernet, and English and American sealers; South American gauchos who settled in the 1840s and 1850s; and since the late 1830s, settlers largely from Britain (especially Scotland and Wales) with a minority from other European countries. There has also been significant recent contributions from Saint Helena and Chile.\n\nFollowing the abandonment of the archipelago by the Spanish authorities in 1811, the only inhabitants of the islands were people who in their various capacities travelled back and forth, carried out a variety of commercial and shipping activities, sought refuge there, and through various efforts attempted to colonize the islands. Most numerous by far among them were the English and American sealers who had pursued their industry on the Falklands at least since the 1770s, as pointed out by US Secretary of State Edward Livingston. The average number of English and American sealing vessels operating in the area is estimated between 40 and 50 meaning that several hundred to 1,000 sealers were involved.\n\nThe settlement of Port Louis, established by Vernet on the site of the former Spanish settlement of Puerto Soledad, had about 100 inhabitants at its high point. In his account of his voyages in , Captain Robert FitzRoy quoted references to the numbers and makeup of the inhabitants from a fellow officer who had previously visited Port Louis. According to that source there were about 100 people in the settlement, comprising:\n\nThat population was reduced in 1831-32 by various means unconnected with the British arrival at Port Louis on 2 January 1833. Luis Vernet and his family left the Falklands, and returned to Buenos Aires in November 1831 following his action involving the use of force against local American sealers, while the United States warship \"USS Lexington\", Commander Silas Duncan arrested 7 residents he deemed responsible for the detention of US sealing vessels, and also transported from the islands a further 33 persons including families. In his report on the incident Duncan says:\n\nOn 5 January 1833, at the moment when the remaining Argentine military abandoned the islands, 27 of the original Vernet settlers and 2 temporary residents remained in Port Louis. These included 12 gauchos from Argentina and their \"Capataz\" (foreman); a Frenchman; 5 Indians from Montevideo, Uruguay; 3 women from mainland South America and their two children. Other nationalities recorded are Irish, Scottish, German, and North American, making up a tiny population of some 7 different nationalities.\n\nAn insight into the state of the local population in March 1833 is provided by Captain Fitzroy who outlines the scene of a land based population that is vastly outnumbered by the many ships that ply their trade around the islands, the whole completely unregulated by any authority whatsoever:\n\nCharles Darwin, who visited the Falklands in 1833 and 1834, was greatly impressed by the expertise of his two gaucho assistants in the exploration of the interior of East Falkland:\n\nAccording to Lieutenant B.J. Sullivan’s survey of the Falklands, corroborated by other sources, in 1838 the then single settlement of Port Louis had a population of 40-45 residents including some gauchos and women from among Luis Vernet’s settlers. The population grew to 50 in 1841, and 200 by 1849, boosted by the building of Stanley, the new capital with better port facilities which was inaugurated in 1845. New arrivals included more gauchos from South America and military pensioners, farmers and shepherds from the British Isles. The 1851 Falklands Census recorded 20 men as ‘Gaucho’ by profession, mostly of ‘South American’ nationality, with 8 of them having wives and young children.\n\nRichard Clement Moody, the first British Governor of the Falkland Islands, recommended in his Dispatch 13 of 1842:\nThe earliest known Falklands settler was Carmelita Penny (Simon) who had arrived as a slave after 1826. Her sons José Simon, Manuel Coronel Jr. and Richard Penny Jr. were all native Falkland Islanders (born in 1831, 1834 and 1837 respectively), whose fathers had been resident in the islands since before 1833. Among the prominent early Falkland Islanders of Buenos Ayrean origins were the gaucho Manuel Coronel Sr., Santiago Lopez (Darwin's ‘St Jago’), German-born Charles Kussler, Antonina Roxa, and another slave Gregoria Madrid. Most popular among them was Antonina Roxa whose hard work in several occupations (she was a skillful gaucho, and worked as such at Hope Place - Saladero) made her the owner of a farm and valuable real estate in Stanley. The South American contribution to the Falklander ethnogenesis is further recorded by Commodore Augusto Lasserre of the Argentine Navy, who traveled extensively around the islands; according to his account there were up to 20 Argentine-born Islanders in 1869, \"\"working either as labourers or foremen in the ranches, because in this kind of work they are better than the majority of the foreigners\".\"\n\nThe mainland South American-born Falkland Islanders contributed to shaping the Falklander identity in the 1830s-1850s, and nowadays their legacy is visible in Falklands genealogy, Falklands English vernacular, and Falklands toponymy.\n\nA number of modern Falkland Islanders have some mainland South Americans among their 19th century ancestors, mostly Uruguayan gauchos who settled in the islands in connection with the development of the cattle and sheep farming industry that was to form the backbone of the Falklands economy for rather more than a century, until the offshore fisheries assumed that role in the 1980s. Eventually, gauchos took part in the colonization of the uninhabited West Falkland in the 1860s and 1870s, although by that time many of them were of European origins (Scottish, Gibraltarian etc.). There are some two dozen stone or turf-built corrals scattered around Camp — picturesque historical monuments of the 1840s-1870s, the epoch of pioneers who settled and developed the country outside Port Louis and Stanley.\n\nThe Falklands English vernacular has a fair amount of borrowed Spanish words (often modified or corrupted); they are particularly numerous, indeed dominant in the local horse-related terminology. For instance, the Islanders use ‘alizan’, ‘colorao’, ‘negro’, ‘blanco’, ‘gotiao’, ‘picasso’, ‘sarco’, ‘rabincana’ etc. for certain horse colours and looks, or ‘bosal’, ‘cabresta’, ‘bastos’, ‘cinch’, ‘conjinilla’, ‘meletas’, ‘tientas’, ‘manares’ etc. for various items of horse gear.\n\nUnlike the older English, French and Spanish place names given by mariners, which refer mainly to islands, rocks, bays, coves, and capes (points) important for navigation, the post-1833 Spanish names usually identify inland geographical locations and features, reflecting the new practical necessity for orientation, land delimitation and management in the cattle and sheep farming. Among the typical such names or descriptive and generic parts of names are ‘Rincon Grande’, ‘Ceritos’, ‘Campito’, ‘Cantera’, ‘Terra Motas’, ‘Malo River’, ‘Brasse Mar’, ‘Dos Lomas’, ‘Torcida Point’, ‘Pioja Point’, ‘Estancia’, ‘Oroqueta’, ‘Piedra Sola’, ‘Laguna Seco’, ‘Manada’, etc.\n\nThe development of the sheep-breeding industry in the second half of the 19th century was accompanied by substantial immigration, increasing the population sevenfold in fifty years, from 287 in 1851 to 2,043 in 1901. The vast majority of immigrants during that period came from the British Isles, mostly from Scotland. Scots were particularly common in Darwin, many of them coming from the Orkney and Shetland Islands, which have a similar climate to these areas.\nAn additional boost to that population growth came from the expansion of Stanley’s port activities in service of the ships sailing between the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific via the Strait of Magellan or Cape Horn. The port was particularly busy during the California Gold Rush, subsiding following the opening of the Panama Canal in 1914.\n\nThe early 20th century brought about a new industry to the region, Antarctic whaling in South Georgia, that supported a transient population varying from few hundred in winter to over 1,000 in summer. Some Falkland Islanders found employment with South Georgian whaling bases or ships, while some whalers settled in the Falklands to blend into the local populace. The whalers were predominantly Scandinavian (Norwegians, Swedes and Danes), with a minority of Britons, Germans, and a variety of other European nations. As a result of both natural demographic growth and ongoing immigration, the population of the Falkland Islands reached a peak of 2,392 recorded in the 1931 census, a figure that would not be surpassed until late in the twentieth century.\n\nHaving shrunk as low as 1,813 in 1980, since the Falklands War the number of Falkland Islanders has been steadily increasing to exceed 3,100 in 2007. That new growth was supported by a thriving economy, with wool monoculture giving way to a more diversified agriculture, fisheries and tourism, augmented with services related to the military garrison as well as to the islands' role as one of the major gateways to neighbouring Antarctica. According to the 2001 census, the people who have settled in the Falklands during the last decade originated from the United Kingdom (30 per cent of the entire population excepting those resident in connection with the military garrison, including however some children born abroad to Falklander parents), Saint Helena and Ascension Island (6 per cent; 15.8 per cent if people resident in connection with the military garrison were included, Chile (3 per cent), Australia and New Zealand (2.3 per cent), Argentina (1 per cent), followed by Russia, Germany, with minor contributions by several dozens other nations from six continents. It should be noted that children born abroad to Falkland Island women were enumerated in the 2001 census as being \"Foreign-born\".\n\nSome Falkland Islanders were even born beyond the Antarctic Convergence, most recently in the 1980s in the territory of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.\n\nThe Falkland Islanders are British by citizenship, and by either origins or naturalization. They are one of the nations and mini-nations of the United Kingdom and the British overseas territories, including also the English, Scots, Welsh, Northern Irish, Channel Islanders, Gibraltarians, Saint Helenians, Bermudians, Caymanians etc. Along with their common British identity, each of these has its own distinct identity shaped in the respective particular circumstances of political, economic, social and cultural evolution history. According to Lewis Clifton, Speaker of the Falklands Legislative Council, the Falkland Islanders are no exception:\n\nBesides geographical isolation, the emerging of a distinct Falkland Islander national identity along with the originally undifferentiated British identity was possibly influenced by the devolution processes taking place among the United Kingdom nations:\n\nSince the 1960s, the political dimension of Falklander identity has evolved around the campaign for recognition of the Islanders' right to self-determination. Key to this was the formation of the Falkland Island Committee in 1968, Britain's recognition of the right to self-determination after the Islanders turned down the so-called \"leaseback proposal\" put forward by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in 1980, and the new Falklands Constitution enacted in 1985. The constitution vests political power in the elected Falklands Legislative Council rather than the old style colonial governors.\n\nA specific regional aspect of identity is the human relationship the Islanders traditionally maintain with Chile and Uruguay, and the well-known Islander rejection of the Argentine sovereignty claim:\n\nThe Falklands War had tremendous security, economic and social implications for the Falkland Islanders. The War opened the prospects for long needed reforms, reversing the demographic, economic and social decline that the Falklands had suffered for several decades. The Islanders became self-confident masters of their natural resources, and managers of a vibrant economy that attracted a wide range of new technical and managerial personnel to immigrate.\n\nThe Falkland Islanders consider themselves a nation, the ethnogenesis of which is no different from that of other immigrant nations typical of the Americas, Australia or New Zealand; indeed no different from the case of neighbouring South American nations, as pointed out by Councillor Mike Summers:\n\n"}
{"id": "229719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229719", "title": "Popularity", "text": "Popularity\n\nIn sociology, the popularity of a person, idea, item or other concept can be defined in terms of liking, attraction, dominance and superiority. With respect to interpersonal popularity, there are two primary divisions: perceived and sociometric.\n\nAccording to psychologist Tessa Lansu at the Radboud University Nijmegen, \"Popularity [has] to do with being the middle point of a group and having influence on it.\"\n\nThe term \"Popularity\" is borrowed from the Latin term \"popularis\", which originally meant \"common.\" The current definition of the word popular, the \"fact or condition of being well liked by the people\", was first seen in 1601.\n\nWhile popularity is a trait often ascribed to an individual, it is an inherently social phenomenon and thus can only be understood in the context of groups of people. Popularity is a collective perception, and individuals report the consensus of a group's feelings towards an individual or object when rating popularity. It takes a group of people to like something, so the more that people advocate for something or claim that someone is best liked, the more attention it will get, and the more popular it will be deemed.\n\nNotwithstanding the above, popularity as a concept can be applied, assigned, or directed towards objects such as songs, movies, websites, activities, soaps, foods etc. Together, these objects collectively make up popular culture, or the consensus of mainstream preferences in society. In essence, anything, human or non-human, can be deemed popular.\n\nFor many years, popularity research focused on a definition of popularity that was based on being \"well liked.\" Eventually, it was discovered that those who are \"perceived\" as popular are not necessarily the most well liked as originally assumed. When students are given the opportunity to freely elect those they like most and those they perceive as popular, a discrepancy often emerges. This is evidence that there are two main forms of personal popularity that social psychology recognizes, sociometric popularity and perceived popularity.\n\nSociometric popularity can be defined by how liked an individual is. This \"liking\" is correlated with prosocial behaviours. Those who act in prosocial ways are likely to be deemed sociometrically popular. Often they are known for their interpersonal abilities, their empathy for others, and their willingness to cooperate non-aggressively. This is a more private judgement, characterized by likeability, that will not generally be shared in a group setting. Often, it is impossible to know whom individuals find popular on this scale unless confidentiality is ensured.\n\nPerceived popularity is used to describe those individuals who are known among their peers as being popular. Unlike sociometric popularity, perceived popularity is often associated with aggression and dominance and is not dependent on prosocial behaviors. This form of popularity is often explored by the popular media. Notable works dealing with perceived popularity include \"Mean Girls\", \"Odd Girl Out\", and \"Ferris Bueller's Day Off\". Individuals who have perceived popularity are often highly socially visible and frequently emulated but rarely liked. Since perceived popularity is a measure of visible reputation and emulation, this form of popularity is most openly discussed, agreed upon within a group, and what most people refer to when they call someone popular.\n\nTo date, only one comprehensive theory of interpersonal popularity has been proposed: that of A. L. Freedman in the book \"Popularity Explained.\" The 3 Factor Model proposed attempts to reconcile the two concepts of sociometric and perceived popularity by combining them orthogonally and providing distinct definitions for each. In doing so, it reconciles the counter intuitive fact that liking does not guarantee perceived popularity nor does perceived popularity guarantee being well liked.\n\n''Popularity Explained'' was first published as a blog before being converted to a book and various versions have been available on Amazon since 2013.\n\nThere are four primary concepts that \"Popularity Explained\" relies on.\n\n\nAccording to Freedman, an individual's place in the social landscape is determined by a combination of three factors: \"what\" they are; \"who\" they are; and the situation.\n\nOne of the most widely agreed upon theories about what leads to an increased level of popularity for an individual is the perceived value which that individual brings to the group. This seems to be true for members of all groups, but is especially demonstrable in groups that exist for a specific purpose. For example, sports teams exist with the goal of being successful in competitions against other sports teams. Study groups exist so that the members of the group can mutually benefit from one another's academic knowledge. In these situations, leaders often emerge because other members of the group perceive them as adding a lot of value to the group as a whole. On a sports team, this means that the best players are usually elected captain and in study groups people might be more inclined to like an individual who has a lot of knowledge to share. It has been argued that this may be a result of our evolutionary tendencies to favor individuals who are most likely to aid in our own survival.\n\nIt is also of note that the actual value which an individual brings to a group is not of consequence in determining his or her popularity; the only thing that is important is his or her value as perceived by the other members of the group. While perceived value and actual value may often overlap, this is not a requisite and it has been shown that there are instances in which an individual's actual value is relatively low, but they are perceived as highly valuable nevertheless.\n\nAttractiveness, specifically physical attractiveness, has been shown to have very profound effects on popularity. People who are physically attractive are more likely to be thought of as possessing positive traits. People who are attractive are expected to perform better on tasks and are more likely to be trusted. Additionally, they are judged to possess many other positive traits such as mental health, intelligence, social awareness, and dominance.\n\nAdditionally, people who are of above average attractiveness are assumed to also be of above average value to the group. Research shows that attractive people are often perceived to have many positive traits based on nothing other than their looks, regardless of how accurate these perceptions are. This phenomenon is known as the Halo effect This means that, in addition to being more well-liked, attractive people are more likely to be seen as bringing actual value to the group, even when they may be of little or no value at all. In essence, physically attractive people are given the benefit of the doubt while less attractive individuals must prove that they are bringing value to the group. It has been shown empirically that being physically attractive is correlated with both sociometric and perceived popularity. Some possible explanations for this include increased social visibility and an increased level of tolerance for aggressive, social interactions that may increase perceived popularity.\n\nThe degree to which an individual is perceived as popular is often highly correlated with the level of aggression with which that individual interacts with his or her peers. There are two main categories of aggression, relational and overt, both of which have varying consequences for popularity depending on several factors, such as the gender and attractiveness of the aggressor.\n\nRelational aggression is nonviolent aggression that is emotionally damaging to another individual. Examples of relationally aggressive activities include ignoring or excluding an individual from a group, delivering personal insults to another person, and the spreading of rumors. Relational aggression is more frequently used by females than males.\n\nIt has been found that relational aggression almost always has a strongly negative relationship with sociometric popularity but can have a positive relationship with perceived popularity depending on the perceived level of attractiveness of the aggressor. For an aggressor who is perceived as unattractive, relational aggression, by both males and females, leads to less perceived popularity. For an attractive aggressor however, relational aggression has been found to actually have a positive relationship with perceived popularity.\n\nThe relationship between attractiveness and aggression is further intertwined by the finding that increased levels of physical attractiveness actually further decreased the sociometric popularity of relationally aggressive individuals.\n\nIn short, the more physically attractive an individual is, the more likely they are to experience decreased levels of sociometric popularity but increased levels of perceived popularity for engaging in relationally aggressive activities.\n\nOvert aggression is aggression that involves individuals physically interacting with each other in acts such as pushing, hitting, kicking or otherwise causing physical harm or submission in the other person. This includes threats of violence and physical intimidation as well.\n\nIt has been shown that overt aggression directly leads to perceived popularity when the aggressor is attractive. Experiments that are controlled for levels of physical attractiveness show that individuals who are attractive and overtly aggressive have a higher degree of perceived popularity than attractive non-overtly aggressive individuals. This was found to be true to a small degree for females and a large degree for males.\n\nAttractive individuals who are overtly aggressive barely suffer any consequences in terms of sociometric popularity. This is a key difference between overt and relational aggression because relational aggression has a strongly negative relationship on sociometric popularity, especially for attractive individuals. For unattractive individuals, there is again a strongly negative relationship between overt aggression and sociometric popularity. This means that attractive individuals stand to gain a lot of perceived popularity at the cost of very little sociometric popularity by being overtly aggressive while unattractive individuals stand to gain very little perceived popularity from acts of overt aggression but will be heavily penalized with regards to sociometric popularity.\n\nAccording to Talcott Parsons, as rewritten by Fons Trompenaars,\nthere are four main types of culture : marked by love/hate (Middle East, Mediterranean, Latin America) approval/criticism (United Kingdom, Canada, Scandinavia, Germanic countries) esteem/contempt (Japan, Eastern Asia). The last one, responsiveness/rejection, is typical for the United States. \n\nThere is no effort for popularity in Northern or Southern Europe, Latin America or Asia. This emotional bonding is specific for the high schools of the United States. \nIn the love/hate cultures, the family and close friends are more important than popularity. In the approval/criticism cultures, actions are more important than persons, no strong links develop during school.\n\nPopularity is gauged primarily through social status. Because of the importance of social status, peers play the primary role in social decision making so that individuals can increase the chances that others like them. However, as children, individuals tend to do this through friendship, academics, and interpersonal conduct. By adulthood, work and romantic relationships become much more important. This peer functioning and gaining popularity is a key player in increasing interest in social networks and groups in the workplace. To succeed in such a work environment, adults then place popularity as a higher priority than any other goal, even romance.\n\nThese two types of popularity, perceived popularity and sociometric popularity, are more correlated for girls than they are for boys. However, it is said that men can possess these qualities to a larger extent, making them more likely to be a leader, more powerful, and more central in a group, but also more likely than women to be socially excluded. Boys tend to become popular based on athletic ability, coolness, toughness, and interpersonal skills; however, the more popular a boy gets, the worse he tends to do on his academic work. On the other hand, this negative view of academics is not seen at all in popular girls, who gain popularity based on family background (primarily socioeconomic status), physical appearance, and social ability. Boys are also known to be more competitive and rule focused, whereas girls have more emotional intimacy.\n\nIn some instances, it has been found that in predominantly white high schools, attractive non-white students are on average significantly more sociometrically popular than equally attractive white students. One theory that has been put forth to explain this phenomenon is a high degree of group cohesiveness among minority students compared with the relative lack of cohesion amongst members of the majority. Since there is more cohesion, there is more availability for one person to be liked by many since they are all in contact. This acts like Zipf's Law, where the cohesion is a confounding factor that forces the greater links in the smaller minority, causing them to be more noticed and thus more popular. When considering race as a predictor for perceived popularity by asking a class how popular and important each other person is, African American students were rated most popular by their peers. Popularity in race was found to be correlated with athleticism, and because African Americans have a stereotype of being better at sports than individuals of other races, they are viewed as more popular. Additionally, White and Hispanic children were rated as more popular the better they succeeded in school and came from a higher socioeconomic background. No single factor can explain popularity, but instead the interaction between many factors such as race and athleticism vs. academics.\n\nMore tasks in the workplace are being done in teams, leading to a greater need of people to seek and feel social approval. In academic settings, a high social standing among peers is associated with positive academic outcomes. Popularity also leads to students in academic environments to receive more help, have more positive relationships and stereotypes, and be more approached by peers. While this is the research found in schools, it is likely to be generalized to a workplace.\n\nPopularity is positively linked to job satisfaction, individual job performance, and group performance. The popular worker, besides just feeling more satisfied with his job, feels more secure, believes he has better working conditions, trusts his supervisor, and possesses more positive opportunities for communication with both management and co-workers, causing a greater feeling of responsibility and belongingness at work. Others prefer to work with popular individuals, most notably in manual labor jobs because, although they might not be the most knowledgeable for the job, they are approachable, willing to help, cooperative in group work, and are more likely to treat their coworkers as an equal. If an employee feels good-natured, genial, but not overly independent, more people will say that they most prefer to work with that employee.\n\nAccording to the mere-exposure effect, employees in more central positions that must relate to many others throughout the day, such as a manager, are more likely to be considered popular.\nThere are many characteristics that contribute to popularity:\n\nWith a greater focus on groups in the workplace, it is essential that leaders effectively deal with and mediate groups to avoid clashing. Sometimes a leader does not need to be popular to be effective, but there are a few characteristics that can help a leader be more accepted and better liked by his group. Without group or team cohesiveness, there is no correlation between leadership and popularity; however, when a group is cohesive, the higher up someone is in the leadership hierarchy, the more popular they are for two reasons. First, a cohesive group feels more personal responsibility for their work, thus placing more value on better performance. Cohesive members see leaders as taking a bulk of the work and investing a lot of personal time, so when they see a job's value they can ascribe its success to the leader. This greatest contribution principle is perceived as a great asset to the team, and members view the leader more favorably and he gains popularity. Secondly, cohesive groups have well established group values. Leaders can become more popular in these groups by realizing and acting on dominant group values. Supporting group morals and standards leads to high positive valuation from the group, leading to popularity.\n\nPoplularity is a term widely applicable to the modern era thanks primarily to social networking technology. Being \"liked\" has been taken to a completely different level on ubiquitous sites such as Facebook.\n\nPopularity is a social phenomenon but it can also be ascribed to objects that people interact with. Collective attention is the only way to make something popular, and information cascades play a large role in rapid rises in something's popularity. Rankings for things in popular culture, like movies and music, often do not reflect the public's taste, but rather the taste of the first few buyers because social influence plays a large role in determining what is popular and what is not through an information cascade.\n\nInformation cascades have strong influence causing individuals to imitate the actions of others, whether or not they are in agreement. For example, when downloading music, people don't decide 100% independently which songs to buy. Often they are influenced by charts depicting which songs are already trending. Since people rely on what those before them do, one can manipulate what becomes popular among the public by manipulating a website's download rankings. Experts paid to predict sales often fail but not because they are bad at their jobs; instead, it is because they cannot control the information cascade that ensues after first exposure by consumers. Music is again, an excellent example. Good songs rarely perform poorly on the charts and poor songs rarely perform very well, but there is tremendous variance that still makes predicting the popularity of any one song very difficult.\n\nExperts can determine if a product will sell in the top 50% of related products or not, but it is difficult to be more specific than that. Due to the strong impact that influence plays, this evidence emphasizes the need for marketers. They have a significant opportunity to show their products in the best light, with the most famous people, or being in the media most often. Such constant exposure is a way of gaining more product followers. Marketers can often make the difference between an average product and a popular product. However, since popularity is primarily constructed as a general consensus of a group's attitude towards something, word-of-mouth is a more effective way to attract new attention. Websites and blogs start by recommendations from one friend to another, as they move through social networking services. Eventually, when the fad is large enough, the media catches on to the craze. This spreading by word-of-mouth is the social information cascade that allows something to grow in usage and attention throughout a social group until everyone is telling everyone else about it, at which point it is deemed popular.\n\nIndividuals also rely on what others say when they know that the information they are given could be completely incorrect. This is known as groupthink. Relying on others to influence one's own decisions is a very powerful social influence, but can have negative impacts.\n\nThe popularity of many different things can be described by Zipf's powerlaw which posits that there is a low frequency of very large quantities and a high frequency of low quantities. This illustrates popularity of many different objects.\n\nFor example, there are few very popular websites, but many websites have small followings. This is the result of interest; as many people use e-mail, it is common for sites like Yahoo! to be accessed by large numbers of people; however, a small subset of people would be interested in a blog on a particular video game. In this situation, only Yahoo! would be deemed a popular site by the public. This can additionally be seen in social networking services, such as Facebook. The majority of people have about 130 friends, while very few people have larger social networks. However, some individuals do have more than 5,000 friends. This reflects that very few people can be extremely well-connected, but many people are somewhat connected. The number of friends a person has, has been a way to determine how popular an individual is, so the small number of people who have an extremely high number of friends is a way of using social networking services, like Facebook, to illustrate how only a few people are deemed popular.\nPopular people may not be those who are best liked interpersonally by their peers, but they do receive most of the positive behavior from coworkers when compared to nonpopular workers. This is a result of the differences between sociometric and perceived popularity. When asked who is most popular, employees typically respond based on perceived popularity; however, they really prefer the social interactions with those who are more sociometrically popular. For each individual to ensure that they are consistent with the group's popularity consensus, those who are high in perceived popularity are treated with the same positive behaviors as those who are more interpersonally, but privately, liked by specific individuals. Well-liked workers are most likely to get salary increases and promotions, while disliked (unpopular) workers are the first to get their salary cut back or laid off during recessions.\n\nDuring interactions with others in the work environment, more popular individuals receive more organizational citizenship behavior (helping and courteousness from others) and less counter productive work behavior (rude reactions and withheld information) than those who are considered less popular in the workplace. Coworkers agree with each other on who is and who is not popular and, as a group, treat popular coworkers more favorably. While popularity has proven to be a big determiner of getting more positive feedback and interactions from coworkers, such a quality matters less in organizations where workloads and interdependence is high, such as the medical field.\n\nIn many instances, physical appearance has been used as one indicator of popularity. Attractiveness plays a large role in the workplace and physical appearance influences hiring, whether or not the job might benefit from it. For example, some jobs, such as salesperson, benefit from attractiveness when it comes down to the bottom line, but there have been many studies which have shown that, in general, attractiveness is not at all a valid predictor of on-the-job performance. Many individuals have previously thought this was only a phenomenon in the more individualistic cultures of the Western world, but research has shown that attractiveness also plays a role in hiring in collectivist cultures as well. Because of the prevalence of this problem during the hiring process in all cultures, researchers have recommended training a group to ignore such influencers, just like legislation has worked to control for differences in sex, race, and disabilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35447791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35447791", "title": "Prostitution in Laos", "text": "Prostitution in Laos\n\nProstitution in Laos is regarded as a criminal activity and can be subject to severe prosecution. It is much less common than in neighbouring Thailand. Soliciting for prostitution instead takes place mainly in the city's bars and clubs, although street prostitution also takes place. The visibility of prostitution in Laos belies the practice's illegality. UNAIDS estimates there to be 13,400 prostitutes in the country.\n\nMost prostitutes in Laos are from poor rural Laotian families and the country's ethnic minorities. In addition to these, there are many prostitutes in Laos from China and Vietnam, while some Laotian women go to Thailand to work as sex workers. Laos has been identified as a source country for women and girls trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation in Thailand.\n\nMany female sex workers in Laos are at high risk of sexually transmitted infection (STI) and disease. They often have limited access to treatment and services due to cultural sensitivity regarding sexuality and pre-marital sex.\n\nThe establishment of the French Protectorate of Laos in 1893 resulted in the arrival of French civil servants who took \"local wives\" while posted in the country. Prostitution increased during the First Indochina War and the Vietnam War as a result of the presence of foreign troops in Laos. At this time prostitutes came from Thailand to work in the nightclubs and bars of the capital city Vientiane. During the 1960s and 1970s the country's involvement in the Vietnam War led to Vientiane becoming famous for its brothels and ping pong show bars. As early as the 1950s, prostitution was discouraged by the Lao government as a social evil. When the Lao People's Democratic Republic was established in 1975, prostitution was criminalised. Brothels were prohibited by law and disappeared from the country. Prostitutes were initially interned in rehabilitation camps called \"don nang\" (\"women's island\"), though this practice was later discontinued. In the 1990s, tourism and nightclubs returned to the country and with them prostitution became evident again.\n\nPoverty in Laos is a cause of increased prostitution in the country, with the sex industry in neighbouring Thailand attracting sex workers from Laos. By 2011, changing socio-economic conditions in rural Laos had resulted in Laotian women from the Khmu ethnic minority becoming predominant at the lower end of the Laotian sex industry. Research published in 2012 indicated that sex workers considered the profession to be \"an easy and good source of income compared to other jobs\". They also said that it had the advantage of being \"suitable for a low-educated person because working in a bar does not require formal training or skills and is quickly learned.\"\n\nBrothels are prohibited by Lao law. Female sex workers in Laos are often employed as hostesses in places of entertainment, such as beer bars, \"drinkshops\", karaoke bars, nightclubs, guest houses and restaurants. They serve beer and snacks and provide conversation as well as selling sex. Pimps are sometimes used to find clients. Sexual services are provided in guest houses, hotels, or the client's room, which are usually attached to places of entertainment. Otherwise they tend to take place in remote areas. The country's Golden Triangle Special Economic Zone in Bokeo Province has been called \"a mecca of gambling, prostitution and illicit trade\".\n\nResearch conducted into female sex workers published in 2011 indicated that while 99% of them reported using condoms, 26% had had an abortion. Of those that had been pregnant in the last 6 months, 89.4% had had an abortion. Abortions in Laos are not only illegal, but also are generally performed in unsafe conditions by untrained practitioners. In 2016, only 42% of all births were attended by skilled health professionals. In 2004, infection rates of chlamydia and gonorrhea were 33 and 18%. The Lao government implemented a national strategic and action plan in 2005, aimed at expanding universal access to treatment, support, and care. The primary target groups included females sex workers, mobile populations and drug users. However, the plan has not had much of an impact due to the quality of STI services being relatively limited in Laos.\n\nAccess to information and treatment regarding AIDS/HIV/STIs remains limited in Laos due to a conservative culture and sensitivity towards sexuality. Many individuals reported a fear of going to health facilities for treatment due to social discrimination regarding pre-marital sex and \"clinicians' negative attitudes towards 'dirty disease'\". A general lack of knowledge exists in Laos regarding RTI/STIs. The main sources of information are radio and television. However, access to health information is even more difficult in rural areas. One study suggested that providers of contraceptive information and supplies are influenced by Lao norms, which disapprove of pre-marital sex, and stigmatize women who do seek contraceptive services.\n\nIn 2004, between 0.8 percent and 4.2 percent of female sex workers in Laos were estimated to be infected with HIV/AIDS. In 2015 the HIV prevalence for the total Laos population was 0.2 percent with 1096 new infections and 128 AIDS related deaths. In 2016, an estimated 4,900 women aged 15 and up were living with HIV. \n\nLaos is a source and, to a lesser extent, a transit and destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Lao trafficking victims, especially from the southern region of the country, are often migrants seeking opportunities abroad who then experience sexual exploitation in destination countries, most often Thailand, as well as Vietnam, Malaysia, China, Taiwan, and Japan. Some migrate with the assistance of brokers charging fees, while others move independently through Laos’ 23 official border crossings using valid travel documents. Traffickers take advantage of this migration, and the steady movement of Lao population through the country’s 50 unofficial and infrequently-monitored border crossings, to facilitate the trafficking of Lao individuals in neighboring countries. Traffickers in rural communities often lure acquaintances and relatives with false promises of legitimate work opportunities in neighboring countries, then subject them to sex trafficking.\n\nA large number of victims, particularly women and girls, are exploited in Thailand’s commercial sex industry. Some number of women and girls from Laos are sold as brides in China and subjected to sex trafficking. Some local officials reportedly contributed to trafficking vulnerabilities by accepting payments to facilitate the immigration of girls to China.\n\nLaos is reportedly a transit country for some Vietnamese and Chinese women and girls who are subjected to sex trafficking in neighboring countries, particularly Thailand. Chinese women and girls are also subjected to sex trafficking within Laos.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Laos as a 'Tier 3' country.\n\nThe Khmu are a minority ethnic group that reside mostly in isolated and mountainous areas in the Upper Mekong region of Laos. They are the second largest ethnic group after the lowland Lao and make up more than 10% of the 6.2 million population. There are a significant number of Khmu women in northern Laos that are involved in the commercial sex industry. Many of these women voluntary leave their villages due to the very poor living conditions there. The Khmu women mostly move to border areas around the Upper Mekong where there is more infrastructure and recent development, including bars, restaurants and casinos. In addition, \"Chinese sex workers at both casinos and local commercial sex venues increasingly host itinerant laborers and gamblers. Meanwhile, as a nod to promised development assistance, Chinese casino managers promote 'ethnic tourism' by supporting beauty contests in neighboring villages\".\n"}
{"id": "337662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337662", "title": "Sati (practice)", "text": "Sati (practice)\n\nSati or suttee is an obsolete funeral custom where a widow immolates herself (Anumarana) on her husband's pyre or takes her own life in another fashion shortly after her husband's death.\n\nMention of the practice can be dated back to the 3rd century BCE, while evidence of practice by widows of kings only appears beginning between the 5th and 9th centuries CE. The practice is considered to have originated within the warrior aristocracy in India, gradually gaining in popularity from the 10th century CE and spreading to other groups from the 12th through 18th century CE. The practice was particularly prevalent among some Hindu communities, observed in aristocratic Hindu families, and has been attested to outside South Asia in a number of localities in Southeast Asia, such as in Indonesia and Vietnam.\n\nThe British East India Company initially tolerated the practice, with William Carey noting 438 incidences within a 30-mile (48-km) radius of Calcutta, in 1803, despite its ban within Calcutta itself. Historian A.F. Salahuddin Ahmed states Company employees \"not only seemed to accord an official sanction, but also increased its prestige value\", in Bengal, through only prohibiting involuntary immolations in 1813. Between 1815 and 1818, the number of \"sati\" in Bengal province doubled from 378 to 839. Under sustained campaigning against \"sati\" by Christian missionaries such as William Carey and Brahmin Hindu reformers such as Ram Mohan Roy, the provincial government banned \"sati\" in 1829. This was followed up by similar laws by the authorities in the princely states of India in the ensuing decades, with a general ban for the whole of India issued by Queen Victoria in 1861. In Nepal, \"sati\" was banned in 1920. The Indian Sati Prevention Act from 1988 further criminalised any type of aiding, abetting, and glorifying of \"sati\".\n\n\"Sati\" (Sanskrit: सती / \"\") is derived from the name of the goddess Sati, who self-immolated because she was unable to bear her father Daksha's humiliation to her husband Shiva.\n\nThe term \"sati\" was originally interpreted as \"chaste woman\". \"Sati\" appears in Hindi and Sanskrit texts, where it is synonymous with \"good wife\"; the term \"suttee\" was commonly used by Anglo-Indian English writers. \"Sati\" designates therefore originally the woman, rather than the rite; the rite itself having technical names such as sahagamana (\"going with\") or sahamarana (\"dying with\"). Anvarohana (\"ascension\" to the pyre) is occasionally met, as well as satidaha as terms to designate the process. Satipratha is also, on occasion, used as a term signifying the custom of burning widows alive. Two other terms related to \"sati\" are sativrata and satimata. \"Sativrata\", an uncommon and seldom used term, denotes the woman who makes a vow, \"vrata\", to protect her husband while he is alive and then die with her husband. \"Satimata\" denotes a venerated widow who committed \"sati\".\n\nThe Indian Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987 Part I, Section 2(c) defines \"sati\" as the act or rite itself.\n\nFew reliable records exist of the practice before the time of the Gupta empire, approximately 400 CE although the Greek historian Aristobulus of Cassandreia, who traveled to India with the expedition of Alexander the Great, recorded that he had heard that among certain tribes widows were glad to burn along with their husbands, and that those who declined to die were disgraced. According to Axel Michaels, the first inscriptional evidence of the practice is from Nepal in 464 CE, and in India from 510 CE. The early evidence suggests that widow-burning practice was seldom carried out in the general population. Centuries later, instances of \"sati\" began to be marked by inscribed memorial stones called Sati stones. According to J.C. Harle, the medieval memorial stones appear in two forms – \"viragal\" (hero stone) and \"satigal\" (sati stone), each to memorialize something different. Both of these are found in many regions of India, but \"rarely if ever earlier in date than the 8th or 9th century\". Numerous memorial \"sati\" stones appear 11th-century onwards, states Michaels, and the largest collections are found in Rajasthan. Sati was also prevalent in the Chola Empire in South India. Vanavan Mahadevi, the mother of Rajaraja Chola I (10th century A.D) and Viramahadevi the queen of Rajendra Chola I (11th century A.D) both committed Sati upon their husband's death by ascending the pyre.\n\nA description of \"sati\" appears in the Greek 1st-century BCE historian Diodorus Siculus's account of the war fought in Iran between two of Alexander the Great's generals, Eumenes of Cardia and Antigonus Monophthalmus. In 317 BCE Eumenes's cosmopolitan army defeated that of Antigonus in the Battle of Paraitakene. Among the fallen was one Ceteus, the commander of Eumenes's Indian soldiers. Diodorus writes that Ceteus had been followed on campaign by his two wives, at his funeral the two wives competed for the honour of joining their husband on the pyre. After the older wife was found to be pregnant, Eumenes's generals ruled in favour of the younger. She was led to the pyre crowned in garlands to the hymns of her kinsfolk. The whole army then marched three times around the pyre before it was lit. According to Diodorus the practice of \"sati\" started because Indians married for love, unlike the Greeks who favoured marriages arranged by the parents. When inevitably many of these love marriages turned sour, the woman would often poison the husband and find a new lover. To end these murders, a law was therefore instituted that the widow should either join her husband in death or live in perpetual widowhood. Modern historians believe Diodorus's source for this episode was the eyewitness account of the now lost historian Hieronymus of Cardia. Hieronymus' explanation of the origin of \"sati\" appears to be his own composite, created from a variety of Indian traditions and practices to form a moral lesson upholding traditional Greek values.\nIn the 1886 published Hobson-Jobson, Henry Yule and Arthur Coke Burnell mention the practice of \"Suttee\" (sati) as an early custom of Russians near Volga, tribes of Thracians in southeast Europe, and some tribes of Tonga and Fiji islands. Yule and Burnell also compiled a few dozen excerpts of historical descriptions of \"sati\", the first being of Ceteus (or Keteus) mentioned above in 317 BC, and then a few before the 9th century AD, where the widow of a king had the choice to burn with him or abstain. Most of the compiled list on \"sati\", by Yule and Burnell, date from 1200 CE through the 1870s CE.\n\nThe archaeologist Elena Efimovna Kuzmina enlists clear parallels between the burial practices of the ancient Asiatic steppe Andronovo cultures (fl. 1800–1400 BCE) and the Vedic Age. In Kuzmina's archaeological definition, \"sati\" is understood as a double burial, the co-cremation of a man and a woman/wife, a feature to be found in both cultures. Kuzmina states that in the Androvo culture and Vedic age, the practice was never strictly observed and was symbolic.\n\nThe sacrifice of widow(s) or a great man's retainers at his death is attested in various Indo-European cultures outside of India. As an example where the widows vied for the honour to die with their common husband, the 5th-century BCE historian Herodotus mentions the Krestones tribe among the Thracians. The woman found to have been held highest in the husband's favour while he lived had her throat slit on his grave, the surviving wives reputedly regarding it as a great shame to have to live on. Citing the \"Gothic Wars\" of Procopius (written circa 550 CE), Edward Gibbon notes that among the Germanic tribe of the Heruli, a widow typically hanged herself upon her husband's tomb.\n\nThe early 14th-century CE traveller Odoric of Pordenone mentions wife burning in Zampa (Champa), in nowadays south/central Vietnam. Anant Altekar states that \"sati\" spread with Hindu migrants to Southeast Asian islands, such as to Java, Sumatra and Bali. According to Dutch colonial records, this was however a rare practice in Indonesia, one found in royal households.\nIn Cambodia, both the lords and the wives of a dead king voluntarily burnt themselves in the 15th and 16th centuries. According to European traveller accounts, in 15th century Mergui, in present-day extreme south Myanmar, widow burning was practiced. A Chinese pilgrim from the 15th century seems to attest the practice on islands called Ma-i-tung and Ma-i (possibly Belitung (outside Sumatra) and Northern Philippines, respectively).\n\nAccording to the historian K.M. de Silva, Christian missionaries in Sri Lanka with a substantial Hindu minority population, reported \"there were no glaring social evils associated with the indigenous religions-no \"sati\", (...). There was thus less scope for the social reformer.\" However, although \"sati\" was non-existent in the colonial era, earlier Muslim travellers such as Sulaiman al-Tajir reported that \"sati\" was optionally practiced, which a widow could choose to undertake.\n\nIn 1968, Eberhard stated that the practice of widow burning was observed inside China, but was rare and influenced by India. Chinese sociology studies that followed suggest that the practice was historically more widespread, far removed from India (near the Korean peninsula), and found among the Manchu people of China where a widow would ritually commit suicide after her husband died (Chinese: \"xunsi\", \"congxun\"). After her suicide, she was socially celebrated as a virtuous chaste widow. This Altaic tradition was not limited to the Manchu people of China, but also found in other Chinese ethnic groups. The practice of self-immolation and other forms of public suicide by widows were observed, for example, in Fukien province of southeast China, in some cases in duress after a rape attempt and in other cases voluntarily without duress.\n\nA similar practice of widow suicide to follow her husband or fiancé, states Hai-soon Lee, existed in medieval Korea, in accordance with the traditional Confucian ethos. According to Martina Deuchler, this practice was praised as \"misok\" (beautiful custom), and the dead widow praised as \"faithful wife\", in the historic Korean culture and literature.\n\nHistorical documents attest to the public self-immolation practice (self cremation, as shaoshen 燒身 or zifen 自焚) among Buddhist nuns (and monks) in ancient and medieval China for religious reasons. This was considered as evidence of a renunciant bodhisattva, and may have been inspired by the Jataka tales wherein the Buddha in his earlier lives immolates himself to assist other living beings, or teachings in the \"Lotus Sutra\". The Chinese Buddhist asceticism practices, states James Benn, were not an adaptation or import of Indian ascetic practices, but an invention of Chinese Buddhists, based on their unique interpretations of Buddhists texts. It may be an adoption of more ancient pre-Buddhist Chinese practices.\n\nIn modern times, Buddhist nuns have used self-immolation as a form of protest. Thich Nu Thanh Quang, a Buddhist nun publicly burnt herself to death in front of Diệu Đế Pagoda in central Vietnam, as a mark of protest against the Vietnam War. Her death triggered a wave of similar self-immolations by other nuns and monks as the war continued.\n\nA well-known case is that of the 10th-century CE ship burial of the Rus' described by Ibn Fadlan. Here, when a female slave had said she would be willing to die, her body was subsequently burned with her master on the pyre.\n\nSuch rituals as widow sacrifice/widow burning have, presumably, prehistoric roots. Early 20th-century pioneering anthropologist James G. Frazer, for example, thought that the legendary Greek story of Capaneus, whose wife Evadne threw herself on his funeral pyre, might be a relic of an earlier custom of live widow-burning. The strangling of widows after their husbands' deaths are attested from as disparate cultures as the Natchez people in present-day US state Louisiana, to a number of Pacific Islander cultures.\n\nThe Rajput practice of Jauhar, known from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, was the collective suicide of widows who preferred death rather than being captured alive and dishonored by victorious Muslim soldiers in a war. According to Bose, \"jauhar\" practice grew in the 14th and 15th century with Hindu-Muslim wars of northwest India, where the Hindu women preferred death than slavery or rape they faced if captured. \"Sati\"-style \"jauhar\" custom was observed only during Hindu-Muslim wars in medieval India, but not during internecine Hindu-Hindu wars among the Rajputs.\n\nArvind Sharma states that there was a distinction between \"jauhar\" and \"sati\", because \"jauhar\" was principally motivated by a desire to avoid being captured by the invading Muslims, while \"sati\" was suicide of a devoted widow. John Hawley disagrees, and states there was a connection between \"jauhar\" and \"sati\" in terms of the insecurity and fears of the widow(s), and that these customs reinforced each other. Further Jauhar was a custom for which special combustible rooms were built within the forts called Lakshagraha made of Lacquer and other inflammable substances.\n\n\"Sati\" was observed within Sikh aristocracy. For example, when the founder of the Sikh Empire Ranjit Singh died in 1839, four of his proper wives and seven of his concubines committed themselves to \"sati\". Two wives committed \"sati\" when Sikh King Kharak Singh died, and five women joined the funeral pyre of Maharaja Basant Singh. When Raja Suchet Singh died in 1844, 310 women committed \"sati\". Sikh theology does not support the \"sati\" practice, however, as is evidenced by the criticism of the practice by the 3rd Sikh Guru Guru Amar Das (1479–1554).\n\nIn ancient texts of Jainism, such as the Kalpa Sūtra the term \"Sati\" is found, and it means \"virtuous woman\". Many texts include a list of sixteen Satis, ancient women that represent auspiciousness and virtue, names revered in the mythology of Hinduism as well. The connotation of the term \"Sati\", states M Whitney Kelting, means the same \"virtuousness, chaste, dedication to her family\" as in Hinduism, and in both cases, it is different from the associated practice called suttee during colonial British India. Evidence suggests that there were instances of Sati practice (self immolation) by Jain women, including some in the 19th century. In the \"Epigraphia Carnatica\", two of the 41 cases of \"sati\" in the time period 1400 to 1600 CE are those of Jain women. The low numbers of Jains known to have committed sati suggests that the practice was uncommon within this community. In Jainism, the alternate competing phenomenon of widows becoming nuns, after a husband's death, has been recorded.\n\nIn Bihar, the Muslim widows were stated to be carrying out a related practice. Buchanan Hamilton in his early 19th century \"Shahabad report\" wrote that Sati-like practice had spread to Muhammadans because he had heard that a widow had herself buried in the coffin of her dead husband.\n\nThe earlier historian Anant Sadashiv Altekar, in his (1938) \"The Position of Women in Hindu Civilization From Prehistoric Times to the Present Day\" held the position that the Vedic Age saw an active discontinuation of pre-historic burning of widows, on basis that a 1000 BCE funerary custom describes that of \"symbolic sati\", where the widow lies down by her deceased husband, but is then bidden to rise again, to enjoy the bliss of children and wealth remaining for her. In the following, a brief sketch on the chronology on the spread of sati, as proposed by Altekar is given.\n\nAccording to Altekar, there is no mention of actual \"sati\" in the period of Brahmana literature (c. 1500–700 BCE) and the later Grhyusutras, roughly composed 600–300 BCE on a number of rituals, but \"sati\" is not described or mentioned. In fact, what is written about funeral customs, is that the widow is brought back from the funeral pyre, typically by a trusted servant. Altekar thinks it significant that Gautama Buddha, who castigated customs of \"animal\" sacrifice, and other customs where pain was inflicted, is entirely silent about burning women alive. Altekar takes these elements as proofs that burning widows alive had long ago died out as a practice. Nor do the authors of the Dharmasutras (c. 400 BCE–100 BCE) or Yajnavalkya (c. 100 CE–300 CE) say anything about it being commendable to burn a widow alive on her husband's funeral pyre. Although we have late fourth-century BCE evidence from Greek authors and the Mahabharata for the 'existence' of the custom of \"sati\", Altekar thinks it did not really begin to grow in popularity before 400 CE, by the manner of which it is infrequently mentioned in the Puranas of that time. A very early attested case from 510 CE is that of the wife of Goparaja, who immolated herself with her dead husband, according to the Eran inscription of king Bhanugupta, with another similar case attested from 606 CE. As the custom grew in popularity, Altekar highlights as determined opponents of this aristocratic custom in particular 7th-century poet Bāṇabhaṭṭa, but also 9th-century theologian Medhātithi and 12th-century Devana Bhatta. In Altekar's view, their crusades against the custom were largely unsuccessful.\n\nAccording to Altekar, it is the period c. 700–1100 CE that sees \"sati\" becoming really widespread in India, in particular in Kashmir. As the centuries wore on, Altekar provides a few statistics on the spread of the custom. In Rajputana, a later stronghold for \"sati\" there are two, possibly three reliably attested cases before 1000 CE. For the period from 1200 to 1600 CE, there are at least 20 such cases. For the Carnatic, we have about 11 inscriptions relative to \"sati\" from 1000 to 1400 CE; for 1400–1600 CE we have 41.\n\nThus, a main view that Altekar espoused is that the spread of \"sati\" increased over time (with local variations, for example reductions in territories governed by zealous rulers hostile to the practice), and probably was close to a maximum when the British began to intervene in the first decades of the nineteenth century.\n\nHow, when, where and why the practice of \"sati\" spread are complex and much debated questions, without a consensus.\n\nAccording to Anand A. Yang, one model proposes, taking into account the association of \"sati\" with the warrior elite in particular, \"sati\" only became really widespread during the Muslim invasions of India, and the practice of \"sati\" now acquired an additional meaning as a means to preserve the honour of women whose men had been slain. Sashi states, \"the argument is that the practice came into effect during the Islamic invasion of India, to protect their honour from Muslims who were known to commit mass rape on the women of cities that they could capture successfully.\"\nHowever, this theory does not address the evidence of occasional incidences of \"sati\" in pre-Islamic times. The 510 CE inscription at Eran mentioning the wife of Goparaja, a vassal of Bhanugupta, burning herself on her husband's pyre is considered to be a Sati stone. Vidya Dehejia states that sati became regular only after 500 CE. He states that the practice originated among the Kshatriyas and remained mostly limited to the warrior class among Hindus. Yang adds that the practice was also emulated by those seeking to achieve high status of the royalty and the warriors.\n\nDuring the period of Muslim-Hindu conflict, Rajputs performed a distinct form of \"sati\" known as jauhar as a direct response to the onslaught they experienced. The earliest Islamic invasions of South Asia have been recorded from the early 8th century CE such as with the raids of Muhammad bin Qasim, and major wars of Islamic expansion after the 10th century. This chronology has led to the theory that the increase in \"sati\" practice in India may be related to the centuries of Islamic invasion and its expansion in South Asia.\n\nAlternate theories for the spread of sati include it expanding from Kshatriya caste to others castes, not because of wars, but on its own, as part of \"Sanskritization\" and cultural phenomenon that conflated sati as a caste status symbol. This theory has been challenged because it does not explain the spread of sati from Kashatriyas to Brahmins, and Brahmins were not considered to be of inferior caste status than Kshatriyas. Another theory, by Hawley, is that sati started as a \"nonreligious, ruling-class, patriarchal\" ideology but later spread as a gilded status symbol of \"valor\", \"honor\" and \"purity\", representing strength and courage in internecine Rajput wars, and after Muslim invasions where Hindu women feared becoming the \"booty for the captor\" and committed jauhar and sati to avoid \"rape, torture and other ignominies\".\n\nThe above theories do not explain how and why sati practice continued during the colonial era, particularly in significant numbers in colonial Bengal Presidency (modern Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Bangladesh and Assam). Three theories have been proposed: first that sati was believed to be supported by Hindu scriptures by the 19th century, second that sati was encouraged by unscrupulous neighbors because it was a means of property annexation from a widow who had the right to inherit her dead husband's property under Hindu law and sati helped eliminate the inheritor, and third theory being that poverty was so extreme during the 19th century that sati was a means of escape for a woman with no means or hope of survival.\n\nDaniel Grey states that the understanding of origins and spread of sati were distorted in the colonial era because of a concerted effort to push \"problem Hindu\" theories in the 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nAccording to Annemarie Schimmel, the Mughal Emperor Akbar was averse to the practice of Sati; however, he expressed his admiration for \"widows who wished to be cremated with their deceased husbands\". He was averse to abuse, and in 1582, Akbar issued an order to prevent any use of compulsion in \"sati\". According to M. Reza Pirbhai, a professor of South Asian and World history, it is unclear if a prohibition on \"sati\" was issued by Akbar, and other than a claim of ban by Monserrate upon his insistence, no other primary sources mention an actual ban. Instances of \"sati\" continued during and after the era of Akbar. For example, according to a poem, \"Sūz u gudāz\" (\"Burning and melting\") by Muhammad Riza Nau'i of Khasbushan (d. 1610), Akbar attempted to prevent a \"sati\" by calling a widow before him and offering her wealth and protection. The poet reports hearing the story from Prince Dāniyāl, Akbar's third son. According to Arvind Sharma, a professor of Comparative Religion specializing on Hinduism, the widow \"rejected all this persuasion as well as the counsel of the Brahmans, and would neither speak nor hear of anything but the Fire\".\n\nJahangir, who succeeded Akbar in the early 17th century, found \"sati\" prevalent among the Muslims of Rajaur (Kashmir). They had been converted to Islam by Sultan Firoz. During this era, many Muslims and Hindus were ambivalent about the practice, with Muslim attitude leaning towards disapproval. According to Sharma, the evidence nevertheless suggests that \"sati\" was universally admired, and both \"Hindus and Muslims went in large numbers to witness a sati\". According to Reza Pirbhai, the memoirs of Jahangir suggest \"sati\" continued in his regime, was practiced by Hindus and Muslims, he was fascinated by the custom, and that those Kashmiri Muslim widows who practiced \"sati\" either immolated themselves or buried themselves alive with their dead husbands. Jahangir prohibited such sati and other customary practices in Kashmir.\n\nAurangzeb issued another order in 1663, states Sheikh Muhammad Ikram, after returning from Kashmir, \"in all lands under Mughal control, never again should the officials allow a woman to be burnt\". The Aurangzeb order, states Ikram, though not mentioned in the formal histories, is recorded in the official records of Aurangzeb's time. Although Aurangzeb's orders could be evaded with payment of bribes to officials, adds Ikram, later European travelers record that \"sati\" was not much practiced in Mughal empire, and that Sati was \"very rare, except it be some Rajah's wives, that the Indian women burn at all\" by the end of Aurangzeb's reign.\n\nThe memoirs of European merchants and travelers, as well the colonial era Christian missionaries of British India described Sati practices under Mughal rulers. The Spanish missionary Domingo Navarrete wrote in 1670 of different styles of Sati during Aurangzeb's time.\n\nEuropean travellers in the Mughal empire noted the practice, with Ralph Fitch noting in 1591:\n\nWhile amongst the descriptions in François Bernier's Travels in the Mogul Empire, A.D. 1656–1668, he gives:\n\nThe Portuguese banned the practice in Goa after the conquest of Goa, however the practice continued in the region. The Dutch and the French banned it in Chinsurah and Pondichéry, their respective colonies. The Danes, who held the small territories of Tranquebar and Serampore, permitted it until the 19th century. The Danish strictly forbade, apparently early the custom of \"sati\" at \"Tranquebar\", a colony they held from 1620–1845 (whereas Serampore (Frederiksnagore) was Danish colony merely from 1755–1845).\n\nAttempts to limit or ban the practice had been made by individual British officers in the 18th century, but without the backing of the British East India Company. The first formal British ban was imposed in 1798, in the city of Calcutta only. The practice continued in surrounding regions. In the beginning of the 19th century, the evangelical church in Britain, and its members in India, started campaigns against \"sati\". Leaders of these campaigns included William Carey and William Wilberforce. These movements put pressure on the company to ban the act. William Carey, and the other missionaries at Serampore conducted in 1803–04 a census on cases of \"sati\" for a region within a 30-mile radius of Calcutta, finding more than 300 such cases there. The missionaries also approached Hindu theologians, who opined that the practice was encouraged, rather than enjoined by the Hindu scriptures.\n\nSerampore was a Danish colony, rather than British, and the reason why Carey started his mission in Danish India, rather than in British, was because The East India Company did not accept Christian missionary activity within their domains. In 1813, in a speech to the House of Commons, William Wilberforce, with particular reference to the statistics on \"sati\" collected by Carey and the other Serampore missionaries, forced through a bill that made Christian missionary preaching in British India legal, to combat such perceived social evils as \"sati\".\n\nElijah Hoole in his book \"Personal Narrative of a Mission to the South of India, from 1820 to 1828\" reports an instance of Sati at Bangalore, which he did not personally witness. Another missionary, Mr. England, reports witnessing Sati in the Bangalore Civil and Military Station on 9 June 1826. However, these practices were very rare after the Government of Madras cracked down on the practice from the early 1800s (p. 82).\n\nThe British authorities within the Bengal Presidency started systematically to collect figures on the practice in 1815.\n\nThe ban on \"Sati\", effected by Lord William Bentinck in 1829, was largely due to the efforts of both Christian and Hindu reformers such as William Carey and Ram Mohan Roy. In 1799 Carey, a Baptist missionary from England, first witnessed the burning of a widow on her husband’s funeral pyre. Horrified by the practice, Carey and his coworkers Joshua Marshman and William Ward opposed \"sati\" from that point onward, lobbying for its abolishment. Known as the Serampore Trio, they published essays forcefully condemning the practice and presented an address against Sati to then Governor General of India, Lord Wellesley.\nIn 1812 Raja Ram Mohan Roy, founder of Brahmo Samaj, began to champion the cause of banning \"sati\" practice. He was motivated by the experience of seeing his own sister-in-law being forced to commit \"sati\". He visited Kolkata’s cremation grounds to persuade widows against immolation, formed watch groups to do the same, sought the support of other elite Bengali classes, and wrote and disseminated articles to show that it was not required by Hindu scripture. He was at loggerheads with Hindu groups which did not want the Government to interfere in religious practices.\n\nFrom 1815–1818 \"Sati\" deaths doubled. Ram Mohan Roy launched an attack on \"Sati\" that “aroused such anger that for awhile his life was in danger” In 1821 he published a tract opposing Sati, and in 1823 the Serampore missionaries led by Carey published a book containing their earlier essays, of which the first three chapters opposed Sati. Another Christian missionary published a tract against Sati in 1927.\n\nSahajanand Swami, the founder of the Swaminarayan sect, preached against the practice of \"sati\" in his area of influence, that is Gujarat. He argued that the practice had no Vedic standing and only God could take a life he had given. He also opined that widows could lead lives that would eventually lead to salvation. Sir John Malcolm, the Governor of Bombay supported Sahajanand Swami in this endeavor.\n\nIn 1828 Lord William Bentinck came to power as Governor of India. When he landed in Calcutta, he said that he felt \"“the dreadful responsibility hanging over his head in this world and the next, if… he was to consent to the continuance of this practice (sati) one moment longer.”\"\n\nBentinck decided to put an immediate end to \"Sati\". Ram Mohan Roy warned Bentinck against abruptly ending \"Sati\". However, after observing that the judges in the courts were unanimously in favor of it, Bentinck proceeded to lay the draft before his council. Charles Metcalfe, the Governor’s most prominent counselor expressed apprehension that the banning of \"Sati\" might be \"“used by the disaffected and designing”\" as \"“an engine to produce insurrection.”\" However these concerns didn’t deter him from upholding the Governor’s decision \"“in the suppression of the horrible custom by which so many lives are cruelly sacrificed.”\"\n\nThus on Sunday morning of 4 December 1829 Lord Bentinck issued Regulation XVII declaring \"Sati\" to be illegal and punishable in criminal courts. It was presented to William Carey for translation. His response is recorded as follows: \"“Springing to his feet and throwing off his black coat he cried, 'No church for me to-day... If I delay an hour to translate and publish this, many a widow’s life may be sacrificed,' he said. By evening the task was finished.”\"\n\nOn 2 February 1830 this law was extended to Madras and Bombay. The ban was challenged by a petition signed by “several thousand… Hindoo inhabitants of Bihar, Bengal, Orissa etc” and the matter went to the Privy Council in London. Along with British supporters, Ram Mohan Roy presented counter-petitions to parliament in support of ending Sati. The Privy Council rejected the petition in 1832, and the ban on \"Sati\" was upheld.\n\nAfter the ban, priests in Sindh region complained that the British colonial government was interfering with the rare local \"sati\" custom. Charles Napier clarified in 1843 that anyone involved in this custom would be executed and their property confiscated. According to an account of his administration, there were no more \"sati\" thereafter, in the region Napier administered.\n\n\"Sati\" remained legal in some princely states for a time after it had been banned in lands under British control. Baroda and other princely states of Kathiawar Agency banned the practice in 1840, whereas Kolhapur followed them in 1841, the princely state of Indore some time before 1843. According to a speaker at the East India House in 1842, the princely states of Satara, Kingdom of Nagpur and Mysore had by then banned \"sati\". Jaipur banned the practice in 1846, while Hyderabad, Gwalior and Jammu and Kashmir did the same in 1847. Awadh and Bhopal were actively suppressing \"sati\" by 1849. Cutch outlawed it in 1852 with Jodhpur having banned \"sati\" about the same time.\n\nThe 1846 abolition in Jaipur was regarded by many British as a catalyst for the abolition cause within the Rajputana; within 4 months after Jaipur's 1846 ban, 11 of the 18 independently governed states in Rajputana had followed Jaipur's example. One paper says that in the year 1846–1847 alone, 23 states in the whole of India (not just within Rajputana) had banned \"sati\". It was not before 1861 sati was legally banned in all princely states of India, Mewar resisting for a long time before that time. The last legal case within princely states was from 1861 Udaipur the capital of Mewar, but as Anant S. Altekar shows, local opinion had then shifted strongly against the practice. All the widows of Maharanna Sarup Singh flatly refused to become \"sati\" when asked, and the one who was burnt with him was a slave girl. Later the same year, the general ban on \"sati\" was issued by a proclamation from Queen Victoria.\n\nSome princely states, such as the major Salute state of Travancore, were perceived not to ever have sanctioned \"sati\" within their domains. For example, the regent Gowri Parvati Bayi was asked by the British Resident if he should permit a \"sati\" to take place in 1818, but the regent urged him not to do so, since the custom of \"sati\" had never been acceptable in her domains. In another state, Sawunt Waree (Sawantvadi), the king Khemsawant III (r. 1755–1803) is credited for having issued a positive \"prohibition\" of sati over a period of ten or twelve years. That prohibition from the 18th century may have lapsed, since in 1843, the government in Sawunt Waree issued a new prohibition of \"sati\".\n\nFollowing the outcry after the \"sati\" of Roop Kanwar, the Indian Government enacted the Rajasthan Sati Prevention Ordinance, 1987 on 1 October 1987 and later passed the Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987.\n\nThe Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987 Part I, Section 2(c) defines \"sati\" as:\n\nThe burning or burying alive of –\n\nThe \"Prevention of Sati Act\" makes it illegal to support, glorify or attempt to commit sati. Support of sati, including coercing or forcing someone to commit sati, can be punished by death sentence or life imprisonment, while glorifying sati is punishable with one to seven years in prison.\n\nEnforcement of these measures is not always consistent. The National Council for Women (NCW) has suggested amendments to the law to remove some of these flaws. Prohibitions of certain practices, such as worship at ancient shrines, is a matter of controversy.\n\nThere have been 30 cases of \"sati\" or attempted \"sati\" over a 44-year period (1943–1987) in India, the official number being 28. A well-documented case from 1987 was that of 18-year-old Roop Kanwar. In response to this incident, additional legislation against \"sati\" practice was passed, first within the state of Rajasthan, then nationwide by the central government of India.\n\nIn 2002, a 65-year-old woman by the name of Kuttu died after sitting on her husband's funeral pyre in the Indian Panna district. On 18 May 2006, Vidyawati, a 35-year-old woman allegedly committed sati by jumping into the blazing funeral pyre of her husband in Rari-Bujurg Village, Fatehpur district in the State of Uttar Pradesh.\nOn 21 August 2006, Janakrani, a 40-year-old woman, burned to death on the funeral pyre of her husband Prem Narayan in Sagar district; Janakrani had not been forced or prompted by anybody to commit the act. On 11 October 2008 a 75-year-old woman, Lalmati Verma, committed \"sati\" by jumping into her 80-year-old husband's funeral pyre at Checher in the Kasdol block of Chhattisgarh's Raipur district; Verma killed herself after mourners had left the cremation site.\n\nScholars debate whether these rare reports of \"sati\" suicide by widows are related to culture or are examples of mental illness and suicide such as those found among women worldwide. In the case of Roop Kanwar, Dinesh Bhugra states that there is a possibility that the suicides could be triggered by \"a state of depersonalization as a result of severe bereavement\", then adds that it is unlikely that Kanwar had mental illness and culture likely played a role. However, Colucci and Lester state that none of the women reported by media to have committed \"sati\" had been given a psychiatric evaluation before their \"sati\" suicide and thus there is no objective data to ascertain if culture or mental illness was the primary driver behind their suicide. Inamdar, Oberfield and Darrell state that the women who commit \"sati\" are often \"childless or old and face miserable impoverished lives\" which combined with great stress from the loss of the only personal support may be the cause of a widow's suicide.\n\nAccounts describe numerous variants in the sati ritual. The majority of accounts describe the woman seated or lying down on the funeral pyre beside her dead husband. Many other accounts describe women walking or jumping into the flames after the fire had been lit, and some describe women seating themselves on the funeral pyre and then lighting it themselves.\n\nAlthough \"sati\" is typically thought of as consisting of the procedure in which the widow is placed, or enters, or jumps, upon the funeral pyre of her husband, slight variations in funeral practice have been reported here as well, by region. For example, the mid-17th-century traveler Tavernier claims that in some regions, the \"sati\" occurred by construction of a small hut, within which the widow and her husband were burnt, while in other regions, a pit was dug, in which the husband's corpse was placed along with flammable materials, into which the widow jumped after the fire had started. In mid-nineteenth-century Lombok, an island in today's Indonesia, the local Balinese aristocracy practiced widow suicide on occasion; but only widows of \"royal\" descent could burn themselves alive (others were stabbed to death by a kris knife first). At Lombok, a high bamboo platform was erected in front of the fire and, when the flames were at their strongest, the widow climbed up the platform and dived into the fire.\n\nHindus only bury the bodies of those under the age of two. Those older than two are customarily cremated. A few European accounts provide rare descriptions of Indian \"sati\" that included the burial of the widow with her dead husband. Jean-Baptiste Tavernier, a 17th-century world traveller and trader of gems, wrote that women were buried with their dead husbands along the Coast of Coromandel while people danced during the cremation rites.\n\nThe 18th-century Flemish painter Frans Balthazar Solvyns provided the only known eyewitness account of an Indian sati involving a burial. Solvyns states that the custom included the woman shaving her head, music and the event was guarded by East India Trading company officials. He expresses admiration for the Hindu woman, but also calls the custom barbaric.\n\nThe Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987 Part I, Section 2(c) includes within its definition of \"sati\" not just the act of burning a widow alive, but also that of burying her alive.\n\n\"Sati\" is often described as voluntary, although in some cases it may have been forced. In one narrative account in 1785, the widow appears to have been drugged either with bhang or opium and was tied to the pyre which would have prevented her from escaping the fire, if she changed her mind.\nThe British local press of the time proffered several accounts of alleged forcing of the woman. As an example, \"The Calcutta Review\" published accounts as the following one:\n\nApart from accounts of direct compulsion, some evidence exists that precautions, at times, were taken so that the widow could not escape the flames once they were lit. Anant S. Altekar, for example, points out that it is much more difficult to escape a fiery pit you've jumped in, than descending from a pyre you have entered on. He mentions the custom of the fiery pit as particularly prevalent in the Deccan and western India. From Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, where the widow typically was placed in a hut along with her husband, her leg was tied to one of the hut's pillars. Finally, from Bengal, where the tradition of the pyre held sway, the widow's feet could be tied to posts fixed to the ground, she was asked three times if she wished to ascend to heaven, before the flames were lit.\n\nThe historian Anant Sadashiv Altekar states that some historical records suggest without doubt that instances of sati were forced, but overall the evidence suggests most instances were a voluntary act on the woman's part.\n\nThere have been accounts of symbolic \"sati\" in some Hindu communities. A widow lies down next to her dead husband, and certain parts of both the marriage ceremony and the funeral ceremonies are enacted, but without her death. An example in Sri Lanka is attested from modern times Although this form of symbolic sati has contemporary evidence, it should by no means be regarded as a modern invention. For example, the ancient and sacred Atharvaveda, one of the four Vedas, believed to have been composed around 1000 BCE, describes a funerary ritual where the widow lies down by her deceased husband, but is then asked to descend, to enjoy the blessings from the children and wealth left to her.\n\nIn 20th-century India, a tradition developed of venerating \"jivit\" (living satis). A \"jivit\" is a woman who once desired to commit sati, but lives after having sacrificed her desire to die. Two famous \"jivit\" were Bala Satimata, and Umca Satimata, both living until the early 1990s.\n\nRecords of \"sati\" exist across the subcontinent. However, there seems to have been major differences historically, in different regions, and among communities. Furthermore, no reliable figures exist for the numbers who have died by \"sati\", in general.\nAn 1829 report by a Christian missionary organization includes among other things, statistics on sati. It begins with a declaration that \"the object of all missions to the heathen is to substitute for these systems the Gospel of Christ\", thereafter lists sati for each year over the period 1815–1824 which totals 5,369, followed by a statement that a total of 5,997 instances of women were burned or buried alive in the Bengal presidency over the 10-year period, i.e., average 600 per year. In the same report, it states that the Madras and Bombay presidencies totaled 635 instances of \"sati\" over the same ten-year period. The 1829 missionary report does not provide its sources and acknowledges that \"no correct idea can be formed of the number of murders occasioned by suttees\", then states some of the statistics is based on \"conjectures\". According to Yang, these \"numbers are fraught with problems\".\n\nWilliam Bentinck, in an 1829 report, stated without specifying the year or period, that \"of the 463 satis occurring in the whole of the Presidency of Fort William, 420 took place in Bengal, Behar, and Orissa, or what is termed the Lower Provinces, and of these latter 287 in the Calcutta Division alone\". For the Upper Provinces, Bentinck added, \"in these Provinces the satis amount to forty three only upon a population of nearly twenty millions\", i.e., average one sati per 465,000.\n\nAnand Yang, speaking of the early nineteenth century CE, says that contrary to conventional wisdom, \"sati\" was not, in general, confined to being an upper class phenomenon, but spread through the classes/castes. In the 575 reported cases from 1823, for example, 41 percent were Brahmins, some 6 percent were Kshatriyas, whereas 2 percent were Vaishiyas, and 51 percent Sudras. In Banaras, though, in the 1815–1828 British records, the upper castes were only for two years represented with less than 70% of the total; in 1821, all sati were from the upper castes there.\n\nYang notes that many studies seem to emphasize the young age of the widows who committed sati. However, by study of the British figures from 1815 to 1828, Yang states the overwhelming majority were ageing women: The statistics from 1825 to 1826 about two thirds were above the age of 40 when committing \"sati\".\n\nAnand Yang summarizes the regional variation in incidence of \"sati\" as follows:\nNarayan H. Kulkarnee believes that \"sati\" became to be practiced in medieval days Maharashtra initially by the Maratha nobility claiming Rajput descent. Then, according to Kulkarnee, the practice of \"sati\" may have increased across caste distinctions as an honour saving custom in the face of Muslim advances into the territory. But, the practice never gained the type of prevalence as seen in Rajasthan or Bengal, and social customs of actively dissuading a widow from committing \"sati\" are well established. Apparently not a single instance of \"sati\" are attested for the 17th and 18th centuries CE.\n\nThe \"sati\" stone evidence from the time of the empire is regarded as relatively rare; only about 50 are clearly identified as such. Thus, Carla M. Sinopoli, citing Verghese, says that despite the attention European travellers paid the phenomenon, it should be regarded as having been fairly uncommon during the time of the Vijayanagara empire.\n\nSangam literature (200 BCE) mentions the Sati of a Chola queen. The Madurai Nayak dynasty, reigning 1529–1736 CE seems to have adopted the custom in larger measure; one Jesuit priest observing in 1609 Madurai the burning of 400 women at the death of Nayak Muttu Krishnappa.\n\nKongu Nadu region of Tamil Nadu has the highest number of Veera Maha Sati (வீரமாசதி) or Veeramathy temples (வீரமாத்தி) from all the native Kongu castes.\nKongu Nadu region of Tamil Nadu has the highest number of Veera Maha Satis (வீரமாசதி) or Veeramathys (வீரமாத்தி) in South India. Sangam literature talk about the Sati of a Chola queen.\n\nEstablished in 1799, a few records exist from the Princely State of Mysore that say permission to commit \"sati\" could be granted. Dewan (prime minister) Purnaiah is said to have allowed it for a Brahmin widow in 1805, whereas an 1827 eye-witness to the burning of a widow in Bangalore in 1827 says it was rather uncommon there.\n\nIn the Upper Gangetic plain, while it occurred, there is no indication that it was especially widespread. The earliest known attempt by a government to stop the practice took place here, that of Muhammad Tughlaq, in the Sultanate of Delhi in the 14th century.\n\nIn the Lower Gangetic plain, the practice may have reached a high level fairly late in history. According to available evidence and the existing reports of the occurrences of it, the greatest incidence of \"sati\" in any region and period, in total numbers, occurred in Bengal and Bihar in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.\n\nThe earliest stone inscription in South Asia relating to \"sati\" has been found in Nepal, dated to be from the 5th century, wherein the king successfully persuades his mother to not commit sati when his father died. This inscription suggests that sati practice was known but not compelled. Nepal formally banned sati in 1920.\n\nOn the Indonesian island of Bali, \"sati\" (known as \"masatya\") was practised by the aristocracy as late as 1903, until the Dutch colonial masters pushed for its termination, forcing the local Balinese princes to sign treaties containing the prohibition of sati as one of the clauses. Early Dutch observers of the particular Balinese custom in the 17th century said that only widows, themselves of royal blood, were to be burned alive. Concubines or others of inferior blood lines consenting to die with their princely husband could choose to be stabbed to death before burning.\n\nLindsey Harlan, having conducted extensive field work among Rajput women, has constructed a model of how, and why, women having committed \"sati\" are still venerated today, and how the worshippers think about the process involved. Essentially, a woman on the path to become a \"sati\" goes through three stages\n\nThe dutiful wife, the \"pativrata\", is devoted and subservient to her husband, and also protective of him. If he dies before her, some culpability is attached to her for his death, as not having been sufficiently protective of him. Making the vow to burn alive beside him removes her own culpability, as well as within the afterlife, enables her to protect him from new dangers.\n\nIn Harlan's model, having made the holy vow to burn herself transforms the woman to a \"sativrata\", a transitional stage between the living and the dead, before ascending the funeral pyre. Once a woman committed herself to become \"sati\", popular belief thought her to become endowed with many supernatural powers. Lourens P. Van Den Bosch enumerates some of them. The \"sati\" would gain the powers of prophecy and clairvoyance, as well as the ability to bless women with sons, who had not borne sons before. The gifts from a \"sati\" were venerated as valuable relics, and in her journey to the pyre, people would seek to touch her garments to benefit from her powers.\n\nLindsey Harlan probes deeper into the sativrata stage: As a transitional figure on her path to become a powerful family protector as \"satimata\", the sativrata dictates the terms, and obligations the family must fulfill in order for her to protect them once she has become satimata, by showing reverence to her by observing the conditions. These are generally called \"ok\". A typical example of an \"ok\" is to place a restriction on the type of colours used in the family members's clothing, or to forbid the use of some particular type of clothing.\n\nWhat can be termed curses, \"shrap\" is also within the sativrata's power, understood to be a severe teaching to members of her family in how they have failed. One woman cursed her in-laws when they refused to bring neither a horse or a drummer to her pyre, saying that whenever in the future might have need of either (and many religious rituals requires such a presence), it would not be available to them. \n\nAfter her death on the pyre, the woman is finally transformed into the shape of the \"satimata\", an spiritual embodiment of goodness, with her principal concern of being a family protector. Typically, the \"satimata\" occurs in the dreams of the family members, teaching for example, the women how to be good \"pativratas\", herself through her sacrifice having proved she was the perfect \"pativrata\". However, although the satimata's intentions are always for the good of the family, she is not averse to let, for example, children become sick, or the cows' udders wither, if she thinks this is an appropriate lesson to the living wife who had neglected her duties as \"pativrata\".\n\nDavid Brick, in his 2010 review of ancient Indian literature, states\n\nThe earliest scholarly discussion of sati, whether it is right or wrong, is found in the Sanskrit literature dated to 10th- to 12th-century. The earliest known commentary on sati by Medhatithi of Kashmir argues that sati is a form of suicide, which is prohibited by the Vedic tradition. Vijnanesvara, of the 12th-century Chalukya court, and the 13th-century Madhvacharya, argue that sati should not to be considered suicide, which was otherwise variously banned or discouraged in the scriptures. They offer a combination of reasons, both in favor and against sati.\n\nIn the following, a historical chronology is given of the debate within Hinduism on the topic of \"sati\".\n\nThe most ancient texts still revered among Hindus today are the Vedas, where the \"Saṃhitās\" are the most ancient, four collections roughly dated in their composition to 1700–1100 BCE. In two of these collections, the Rigveda and the Atharvaveda there is material relevant to the discussion of \"sati\".\n\nClaims about the mention of sati in Rig Veda vary. There are differing interpretations of one of the passages which reads:\n\nThis passage and especially the last of these words has been interpreted in different ways, as can be seen from various English translations:\n\nVerse 7 itself, unlike verse 8, does not mention widowhood, but the meaning of the syllables \"yoni\" (literally \"seat, abode\") have been rendered as \"go up into the \"dwelling\"\" (by Wilson), as \"step into the \"pyre\"\" (by Kane), as \"mount the \"womb\"\" (by Jamison/Brereton) and as \"go up to \"where he lieth\"\" (by Griffith). A reason given for the discrepancy in translation and interpretation of verse 10.18.7, is that one consonant in a word that meant house, \"yonim agree\" (\"foremost to the \"yoni\"\"), was deliberately changed by those who wished claim scriptural justification, to a word that meant fire, \"yomiagne\".\n\nIn addition, the following verse, which is unambiguously about widows, contradicts any suggestion of the woman's death; it explicitly states that the widow should return to her house.\n\nDehejia states that Vedic literature has no mention of any practice resembling Sati. There is only one mention in the Vedas, of a widow lying down beside her dead husband who is asked to leave the grieving and return to the living, then prayer is offered for a happy life for her with children and wealth. Dehejia writes that this passage does not imply a pre-existing sati custom, nor of widow remarriage, nor that it is authentic verse because its solitary mention may also be explained as a later date insertion into the text. Dehejia writes that no ancient or early medieval era Buddhist texts mention sati, and if the practice existed it would likely have been condemned by these texts.\n\nDavid Brick, a professor of South Asia Studies, states that neither \"sati\" nor equivalent terms such as \"sahagamana\" are ever mentioned in any Vedic literature (Samhitas, Brahmanas, Aranyakas, Upanishads), or in any of the early Dharmasutras or Dharmasastras.\n\nThe Brahmana literature, one of the layers within the ancient Vedic texts, dated about 1000 BCE – 500 BCE are entirely silent about \"sati\" according to the historian Altekar. Similarly, the Grhyasutras, a body of text devoted to ritual, with composition date about the time of the youngest within Brahmana literature, \"sati\" is not mentioned, either. What is mentioned concerning funeral rites, though, is that the widow is to be brought back from her husband's funeral pyre, either by his brother, or by a trusted servant. In the Taittiriya Aranyaka from about the same time, it is said that when leaving, the widow took from her husband's side such objects as his bow, gold and jewels (which previously would have been burnt with him), and a hope expressed that the widow and her relatives would lead a happy and prosperous life afterwards. According to Altekar, it is \"clear\" that the custom of actual widow burning had died out a long time previously at this stage.\n\nNor is the practice of \"sati\" mentioned anywhere in the Dharmasutras, texts tentatively dated by Pandurang Vaman Kane to 600–100 BCE, while Patrick Olivelle thinks the bounds should be roughly 250–100 BCE instead.\n\nNot only is sati not mentioned in Brahmana and Dharmasastra literature, Satapatha Brahmana explains that suicide by anyone is inappropriate (adharmic). This Śruti prohibition became one of the several basis for arguments presented against sati by 11th- to 14th-century Hindu scholars such as Medhatithi of Kashmir,\n\nThus, in none of the principal religious texts believed composed before the Common Era is there any evidence at all for a sanctioning of the practice of \"sati\". It is wholly unmentioned, although the archaic Atharvaveda do contain hints of a funeral practice of \"symbolic\" sati. In addition, the twelfth-century CE commentary of Apararka, claiming to quote the Dharmasutra text Apastamba, it says that the Apastamba prescribes that if a widow has made a vow of burning herself (anvahorana, \"ascend the pyre\"), but then \"retracts\" her vow, she must expiate her sin by the penance ritual called \"Prajapatya-vrata\"\n\nThe oldest portion of the epic Ramayana, the Valmiki Ramayana, is tentatively dated for its composition by Robert P. Goldman to 750–500 BCE. Anant S. Altekar says that no instances of \"sati\" occur in this earliest, archaic part of the whole Ramayana.\n\nAccording to Ramashraya Sharma, there is no conclusive evidence of the sati practice in the Ramayana. For instance, Tara, Mandodari and the widows of Ravana, all live after their respective husband's deaths, though all of them announce their wish to die, while lamenting for their husbands. The first two remarry their brother-in-law. The only instance of sati appears in the \"Uttara Kanda\" – believed to be a later addition to the original text – in which Kushadhwaja's wife performs sati. The Telugu adaptation of the Ramayana, the 14th-century Ranganatha Ramayana, tells that Sulochana, wife of Indrajit, became sati on his funeral pyre.\n\nInstances of \"sati\" are found in the Mahabharata.\n\nMadri, the second wife of Pandu, immolates herself. She believes she is responsible for his death, as he had been cursed with death if he ever had intercourse. He died while performing the forbidden act with Madri; she blamed herself for not rejecting him, as she knew of the curse. Also, in the case of Madri the entire assembly of sages sought to dissuade her from the act, and no religious merit is attached to the fate she chooses against all advice. In the Musala-parvan of the Mahabharata, the four wives of Vasudeva are said to commit \"sati\". Furthermore, as news of Krishna's death reaches Hastinapur, five of his wives choose to burn themselves.\n\nAgainst these stray examples within the Mahabharata of \"sati\", there are scores of instances in the same epic of widows who do not commit sati, none of them blamed for not doing so.\n\nThe four works, (200 BCE–200 CE), (200–500 CE), (100 BCE–400 CE) and the (700–1000 CE) are the principal Smrti works in the Dharmaśāstra tradition, along with the Parasara Smrti, composed in the latter period, rather than in the earlier.\n\nThe first three principal smrtis, those of Manu, Yājñavalkya and Nārada, do not contain any mention of sati.\n\nJustifications for the practice are given in the \"Vishnu Smriti\" (dated from 700 to 1000CE):\n\nIn contrast, Moriz Winternitz states that Brihaspati Smriti prohibits burning of widows. Brihaspati Smriti was authored after the three principal smritis of Manu, Yājñavalkya and Nārada.\n\nPassages of the Parasara Smriti say:\n\nNeither of these suggest sati as mandatory, but Parasara Smriti elaborates the benefits of sati in greater detail.\n\nWithin the dharmashastric tradition espousing \"sati\" as a justified, and even recommended, option to ascetic widowhood, there remained a curious conception worth noting the achieved status for a woman committing \"sati\". Burning herself on the pyre would give her, and her husband, automatic, but not eternal, reception into heaven (svarga), whereas only the wholly chaste widow living out her natural life span could hope for final liberation (moksha) and breaking the cycle of rebirth. Thus, acknowledging that performing \"sati\" only achieved an inferior otherworldy status than successful widowhood could achieve, \"sati\" became recommended when coupled with a dismissal of the effective possibility for a widow to remain truly chaste.\n\nWhile some smriti passages allow sati as optional, others forbid the practice entirely. Vijñāneśvara (c. 1076–1127), an early Dharmaśāstric scholar, claims that many smriti call for the prohibition of sati among Brahmin widows, but not among other social castes. Vijñāneśvara, quoting scriptures from Paithinasi and Angiras to support his argument, states:\n\n\"Due to Vedic injunction, a Brahmin woman should not follow her husband in death, but for the other social classes, tradition holds this to be the supreme Law of Women... when a woman of Brahmin caste follows her husband in death, by killing herself she leaders neither herself nor her husband to heaven.\"\n\nHowever, as proof of the contradictory opinion of the smriti on sati, in his Mitākṣarā, Vijñāneśvara argues Brahmin women are technically only forbidden from performing sati on pyres other than those of their deceased husbands. Quoting the Yājñavalkya Smṛti, Vijñāneśvara states, \"a Brahmin woman ought not to depart by ascending a separate pyre.\" David Brick states that the Brahmin sati commentary suggests that the practice may have originated in the warrior and ruling class of medieval Indian society. In addition to providing arguments in support of sati, Vijñāneśvara offers arguments against the ritual.\n\nThose who supported the ritual, did however, put restrictions on sati. It was considered wrong for women who had young children to care for, those who were pregnant or menstruating. A woman who had doubts or did not wish to commit sati at the last moment, could be removed from the pyre by a man, usually a brother of the deceased or someone from her husband's side of the family.\n\nDavid Brick, summarizing the historical evolution of scholarly debate on sati in medieval India, states:\nAlthough the myth of the goddess Sati is that of a wife who dies by her own volition on a fire, this is not a case of the practice of \"sati\". The goddess was not widowed, and the myth is quite unconnected with the justifications for the practice.\n\nJulia Leslie points to an 18th-century CE text on the duties of the wife by Tryambakayajvan that contains statements she regards as evidence for a sub-tradition of justifying strongly encouraged, pressured, or even forced \"sati\". Although the standard view of the sati within the justifying tradition is that of the woman who out of moral heroism chooses sati, rather than choosing to enter ascetic widowhood, Tryambaka is quite clear upon the automatic good effect of sati for the woman who was a 'bad' wife:\nThus, as Leslie puts it, becoming (or being pressured into the role of) a \"sati\" was, within \"Tryambaka\" thinking, the only truly effective method of atonement for the bad wife.\n\nOpposition to sati was expressed by several exegesis scholars such as the ninth- or tenth-century Kashmir scholar Medatithi – who offers the earliest known explicit discussion of sati, the 12th- to 17th-century scholars Vijnanesvara, Apararka and Devanadhatta, as well as the mystical Tantric tradition, with its valorization of the feminine principle.\n\nExplicit criticisms were published by Medhatithi, a commentator on various theological works. He offered two arguments for his opposition. He considered sati a form of suicide, which was forbidden by the Vedas:\n\nMedhatithi offered a second reason against sati, calling it against dharma (\"adharma\"). He argued that there is a general prohibition against violence of any form against living beings in the Vedic dharma tradition, sati causes death which is sufficient proof of violence, and thus sati is against Vedic teachings.\n\nVijnanesvara presents both sides of the argument, for and against sati. He argues first that Vedas do not prohibit sacrifice aimed to stop an enemy and in pursuit of heaven, and sati for these reasons is thus not prohibited. He then presents two arguments against sati, calling it \"unobjectionable\". The first is based on hymn 10.2.6.7 of Satapatha Brahmana will forbids suicide. His second reason against sati is an appeal to relative merit between two choices. Death may grant a woman's wish to enter heaven with her dead husband, but living offers her the possibility of reaching moksha through knowledge of the Self through learning, reflecting and meditating. In Vedic tradition, moksha is of higher merit than heaven, because moksha leads to eternal, unsurpassed bliss while heaven is impermanent and smaller happiness. Living gives her an option to discover deeper, fulfilling happiness than dying through sati does, according to Vijnanesvara.\n\nApararka acknowledges that Vedic scripture prohibits violence against living beings and \"one should not kill\"; however, he argues that this rule prohibits violence against another person, but does not prohibit killing oneself if one wants to. Thus sati is a woman's choice and it is not prohibited by Vedic tradition, argues Apararka.\n\nReform and bhakti movements within Hinduism favoured egalitarian societies, and in line with the tenor of these beliefs, generally condemned the practice, sometimes explicitly. The 12th-century Virashaiva movement condemned the practice. Later, Sahajananda Swami, the founder of Vaishnavite Swaminarayana sampradaya preached against sati in the 18th century in western India.\n\nIn a petition to the British East India Company in 1818, Ram Mohan Roy wrote that:\n\n\"All these instances are murders according to every shastra.\"\n\nEuropean artists in the eighteenth century produced many images for their own native markets, showing the widows as heroic women, and moral exemplars.\n\nIn her article \"Can the Subaltern Speak?\" philosopher Gayatri Spivak discusses the British manipulation of sati practice, and how sati takes the form of imprisoning women in the double bind of self-expression attributed to mental illness and social rejection, or of self-incrimination according to British colonial law. The woman who commits sati takes the form of the subaltern in Spivak's work, a form much of postcolonial studies takes very seriously.\nThe Australian rock band Tlot Tlot's song \"The Bonebass Suttee\" on their 1991 album \"A Day at the Bay\" is about the practice.\n\nThe 2005 novel \"The Ashram\" by Indian writer Sattar Memon, deals with the plight of an oppressed young woman in India, under pressure to commit suttee and the endeavours of a western spiritual aspirant to save her.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242901", "title": "Schizoaffective disorder", "text": "Schizoaffective disorder\n\nSchizoaffective disorder (SZA, SZD or SAD) is a mental disorder characterized by abnormal thought processes and an unstable mood. The diagnosis is made when the person has features of both schizophrenia (usually psychosis) and a mood disorder—either bipolar disorder or depression—but doesn't meet the diagnostic criteria for schizophrenia or a mood disorder separately. The main criterion for the schizoaffective disorder diagnosis is the presence of psychotic symptoms for at least two weeks without any mood symptoms present. Schizoaffective disorder can often be misdiagnosed when the correct diagnosis may be psychotic depression, psychotic bipolar disorder, schizophreniform disorder or schizophrenia; this is important for patients or consumers because the treatments and prognoses for these other disorders are different from schizoaffective disorder. The DSM-5 criteria revision for schizoaffective disorder is mainly an attempt to reduce the significant problems with misdiagnosis; but whether this has been achieved awaits outcome studies which have not been completed yet.\n\nThere are two types of schizoaffective disorder: the bipolar type, which is distinguished by symptoms of mania, hypomania, or mixed episode; and the depressive type, which is distinguished by symptoms of depression only. Common symptoms of the disorder include hallucinations, delusions, and disorganized speech and thinking. The onset of symptoms usually begins in young adulthood, currently with an uncertain lifetime prevalence because the disorder was redefined, but DSM-IV prevalence estimates have been less than one percent of the population, in the range of 0.5 to 0.8 percent. Diagnosis is based on observed behavior and the person's reported experiences.\n\nGenetics, neurobiology, early and current environment, behavioral, social, and experiential components appear to be important contributory factors; some recreational and prescription drugs may cause or worsen symptoms. No single isolated organic cause has been found, but extensive evidence exists for abnormalities in the metabolism of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), dopamine, and glutamic acid in people with schizophrenia, psychotic mood disorders, and schizoaffective disorder. People with schizoaffective disorder are likely to have co-occurring conditions, including anxiety disorders and substance use disorders. Social problems such as long-term unemployment, poverty and homelessness are common. The average life expectancy of people with the disorder is shorter than those without it, due to increased physical health problems from an absence of health promoting behaviors such as a sedentary lifestyle, and a higher suicide rate.\n\nThe mainstay of current treatment is antipsychotic medication combined with mood stabilizer medication or antidepressant medication, or both. There is growing concern by some researchers that antidepressants may increase psychosis, mania, and long-term mood episode cycling in the disorder. When there is risk to self or others, usually early in treatment, hospitalization may be necessary. Psychiatric rehabilitation, psychotherapy, and vocational rehabilitation are very important for recovery of higher psychosocial function. As a group, people with schizoaffective disorder diagnosed using DSM-IV and criteria have a better outcome than people with schizophrenia, but have variable individual psychosocial functional outcomes compared to people with mood disorders, from worse to the same. Outcomes for people with DSM-5 diagnosed schizoaffective disorder depend on data from prospective cohort studies, which have not been completed yet.\n\nIn DSM-5 and ICD-10, schizoaffective disorder is in the same diagnostic class as schizophrenia, but not in the same class as mood disorders. The diagnosis was introduced in 1933, and its definition was slightly changed in the DSM-5, published in May 2013, because the DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder definition leads to excessive misdiagnosis. The changes made to the schizoaffective disorder definition were intended to make the DSM-5 diagnosis more consistent (or reliable), and to substantially reduce the use of the diagnosis. Additionally, the DSM-5 schizoaffective disorder diagnosis can no longer be used for first episode psychosis.\nSchizoaffective disorder is defined by \"mood disorder-free psychosis\" in the context of a long-term psychotic and mood disorder. Psychosis must meet criterion A for schizophrenia which may include delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, thinking or behavior and negative symptoms. Both delusions and hallucinations are classic symptoms of psychosis. Delusions are false beliefs which are strongly held despite evidence to the contrary. Beliefs should not be considered delusional if they are in keeping with cultural beliefs. Delusional beliefs may or may not reflect mood symptoms (for example, someone experiencing depression may or may not experience delusions of guilt). Hallucinations are disturbances in perception involving any of the five senses, although auditory hallucinations (or \"hearing voices\") are the most common. A lack of responsiveness or negative symptoms include alogia (lack of spontaneous speech), blunted affect (reduced intensity of outward emotional expression), avolition (loss of motivation), and anhedonia (inability to experience pleasure). Negative symptoms can be more lasting and more debilitating than positive symptoms of psychosis.\n\nMood symptoms are of mania, hypomania, mixed episode, or depression, and tend to be episodic rather than continuous. A mixed episode represents a combination of symptoms of mania and depression at the same time. Symptoms of mania include elevated or irritable mood, grandiosity (inflated self-esteem), agitation, risk-taking behavior, decreased need for sleep, poor concentration, rapid speech, and racing thoughts. Symptoms of depression include low mood, apathy, changes in appetite or weight, disturbances in sleep, changes in motor activity, fatigue, guilt or feelings of worthlessness, and suicidal thinking.\n\nA combination of genetic and environmental factors are believed to play a role in the development of schizoaffective disorder.\n\nViewed broadly then, biological and environmental factors interact with a person's genes in ways which may increase or decrease the risk for developing schizoaffective disorder; exactly how this happens (the biological mechanism) is not yet known. Schizophrenia spectrum disorders, of which schizoaffective disorder is a part, have been increasingly linked to advanced paternal age at the time of conception, a known cause of genetic mutations. The physiology of people diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder appears to be similar, but not identical, to that of those diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder; however, human neurophysiological function in normal brain and mental disorder syndromes is not fully understood.\n\nA clear causal connection between drug use and psychotic spectrum disorders, including schizoaffective disorder, has been difficult to prove. In the specific case of cannabis (marijuana), however, evidence supports a link between earlier onset of psychotic illness and cannabis use. The more often cannabis is used, particularly in early adolescence, the more likely a person is to develop a psychotic illness, with frequent use being correlated with double the risk of psychosis and schizoaffective disorder. A 2009 Yale review stated that in individuals with an established psychotic disorder, cannabinoids can exacerbate symptoms, trigger relapse, and have negative consequences on the course of the illness. While cannabis use is accepted as a contributory cause of schizoaffective disorder by many, it remains controversial, since not all young people who use cannabis later develop psychosis, but those who do use cannabis have an increased odds ratio of about 3.\n\nThere is evidence that the two major component cannabinoids in cannabis have different effects: tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), which causes a \"high,\" may increase propensity to psychosis; while cannabidiol (CBD), which doesn't cause a \"high\" and may have neuroprotective effects—that is, reduce psychosis and have mood stabilizing effects.\n\nAbout half of those with schizoaffective disorder use drugs or alcohol excessively. There is evidence that alcohol abuse via a kindling mechanism can occasionally cause the development of a chronic substance induced psychotic disorder, i.e. schizoaffective disorder. There is little evidence to suggest that psychotic individuals choose specific drugs to self-medicate; there is some support for the hypothesis that they use drugs to cope with unpleasant states such as depression, anxiety, boredom and loneliness.\n\nAmphetamine, cocaine, and to a lesser extent alcohol, can result in psychosis that presents clinically like psychosis in schizoaffective disorder. It is well understood that amphetamine or methamphetamine and cocaine use can result in stimulant-induced psychosis, respectively, that may persist even when users remain abstinent. Alcohol-induced psychosis can also persist during abstinence, though it appears to do so at a lower rate, than when it is being abused.\n\nAlthough it is not generally believed to be a cause of the illness, people with schizoaffective disorder use nicotine at much greater rates than the general population.\n\nPsychosis as a symptom of a psychiatric disorder is first and foremost a diagnosis of exclusion. So a new-onset episode of psychosis \"cannot\" be considered to be a symptom of a psychiatric disorder until other relevant and known medical causes of psychosis are excluded, or ruled out. Many clinicians improperly perform, or entirely miss this step, introducing avoidable diagnostic error and misdiagnosis.\n\nAn initial assessment includes a comprehensive history and physical examination. Although no biological laboratory tests exist which confirm schizoaffective disorder, biological tests should be performed to exclude psychosis associated with or caused by substance use, medications, toxins or poisons, surgical complications, or other medical illnesses. Since non-medical mental health practitioners are not trained to exclude medical causes of psychosis, people experiencing psychosis should be referred to an emergency department or hospital.\n\nDelirium should be ruled out, which can be distinguished by visual hallucinations, acute onset and fluctuating level of consciousness, indicating other underlying factors which includes medical illnesses. Excluding medical illnesses associated with psychosis is performed by using blood tests to measure:\n\n\nOther investigations which may be performed include:\n\nBlood tests are not usually repeated for relapse in people with an established diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder, unless there is a specific \"medical\" indication. These may include serum BSL if olanzapine has previously been prescribed, thyroid function if lithium has previously been taken to rule out hypothyroidism, liver function tests if chlorpromazine has been prescribed, CPK levels to exclude neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and a urinalysis and serum toxicology screening if substance use is suspected. Assessment and treatment may be done on an outpatient basis; admission to an inpatient facility is considered if there is a risk to self or others.\n\nBecause psychosis may be precipitated or exacerbated by common classes of psychiatric medications, such as antidepressants, ADHD stimulant medications, and sleep medications, prescribed medication-induced psychosis should be ruled out, particularly for first-episode psychosis. This is an essential step to reduce diagnostic error and to evaluate potential medication sources of further patient harm. Regarding prescribed medication sources of patient harm, Yale School of Medicine Professor of Psychiatry Malcolm B. Bowers, Jr, MD wrote:\nIllicit drugs aren't the only ones that precipitate psychosis or mania—prescribed drugs can too, and in particular, some psychiatric drugs. We investigated this and found that about 1 in 12 psychotic or manic patients in an inpatient psychiatric facility are there due to antidepressant-induced psychosis or mania. That's unfortunate for the field [of psychiatry] and disastrous for some of our patients.\n\nSubstance-induced psychosis should also be ruled out. Both substance- and medication-induced psychosis can be excluded to a high level of certainty while the person is psychotic, typically in an emergency department, using both a\n\nSome dietary supplements may also induce psychosis or mania, but cannot be ruled out with laboratory tests. So a psychotic person's family, partner, or friends should be asked whether he or she is currently taking any dietary supplements.\n\nCommon mistakes made when diagnosing psychotic patients include:\n\nOnly after these relevant and known causes of psychosis have been ruled out can a psychiatric differential diagnosis be made. A mental health clinician will incorporate family history, observation of a psychotic person's behavior while the person is experiencing active symptoms, to begin a psychiatric differential diagnosis. Diagnosis also includes self-reported experiences, as well as behavioral abnormalities reported by family members, friends, or significant others. Mistakes in this stage include:\n\nThe most widely used criteria for diagnosing schizoaffective disorder are from the American Psychiatric Association's \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-5\".\n\nThe DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder definition was plagued by problems of being inconsistently (or unreliably) used on patients; when the diagnosis is made, it doesn't stay with most patients over time; and it has questionable diagnostic validity (that is, it doesn't describe a distinct disorder, nor predict any particular outcome). These problems have been slightly reduced (or \"modestly improved\") in the DSM-5 according to Carpenter.\n\nWhen psychotic symptoms are confined to an episode of mania or depression (with or without mixed features), the diagnosis is that of a “psychotic” mood disorder, namely either psychotic bipolar disorder or psychotic major depression. Only when psychotic states persist in a sustained fashion for two weeks or longer without concurrent affective symptoms is the diagnosis schizoaffective disorder, schizophreniform disorder or schizophrenia.\n\nThe second cardinal guideline in the DSM-5 diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder is one of timeframe.\n\nThese two changes are intended by the DSM-5 workgroup to accomplish two goals:\n\n\nIf the schizoaffective diagnosis is used less often, other diagnoses (like psychotic mood disorders and schizophrenia) are likely to be used more often; but this is hypothetical until real-world data arrive. Validity problems with the diagnosis remain and await further work in the fields of psychiatric genetics, neuroimaging, and cognitive science that includes the overlapping fields of cognitive, affective, and social neuroscience, which may change the way schizoaffective disorder is conceptualized and defined in future versions of the DSM and ICD.\n\nOne of two types of schizoaffective disorder may be noted in a diagnosis based on the mood component of the disorder:\n\n\nThe American Psychiatric Association's DSM-IV criteria for schizoaffective disorder persisted for 19 years (1994–2013). Clinicians adequately trained in diagnosis used the schizoaffective diagnosis too often, largely because the criteria were poorly defined, ambiguous, and hard to use (or poorly operationalized). Poorly trained clinicians used the diagnosis without making necessary exclusions of common causes of psychosis, including some prescribed psychiatric medications. Specialty books written by experts on schizoaffective disorder have existed for over eight years before DSM-5 describing the overuse of the diagnosis.\n\nCarpenter and the DSM-5 schizoaffective disorders workgroup analyzed data made available to them in 2009, and reported in May 2013 that:\na recent review of psychotic disorders from large private insurance and Medicare databases in the U.S. found that the diagnosis of DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder was used for about a third of cases with non-affective psychotic disorders. Hence, this unreliable and poorly defined diagnosis is clearly overused.\n\nAs stated above, the DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder diagnosis is very inconsistently used or unreliable. A diagnosis is unreliable when several different mental health professionals observing the same individual make different diagnoses excessively. Even when a structured DSM-IV diagnostic interview and best estimate procedures were made by experts in the field that included information from family informants and prior clinical records, reliability was still poor for the DSM-IV schizoaffective diagnosis.\n\nThe DSM-IV schizoaffective diagnosis isn't stable over time either. An initial diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder during time spent at a psychiatric inpatient facility was stable at 6-month and 24-month follow ups for only 36% of patients. By comparison, diagnostic stability was 92% for schizophrenia, 83% for bipolar disorder and 74% for major depression. Most patients diagnosed with DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder are later diagnosed with a different disorder, and that disorder is more stable over time than the DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder diagnosis.\n\nIn April 2009, Carpenter and the DSM-5 schizoaffective disorder workgroup reported that they were \"developing new criteria for schizoaffective disorder to improve reliability and face validity,\" and were \"determining whether the dimensional assessment of mood [would] justify a recommendation to drop schizoaffective disorder as a diagnostic category.\" Speaking to an audience at the May 2009 annual conference of the American Psychiatric Association, Carpenter said:\nWe had hoped to get rid of schizoaffective [disorder] as a diagnostic category [in the DSM-5] because we don't think it's [a] valid [scientific entity] and we don't think it's reliable. On the other hand, we think it's absolutely indispensable to clinical practice.\n\nA major reason why DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder was indispensable to clinical practice is because it offered clinicians a diagnosis for patients with psychosis in the context of mood disorder whose clinical picture, at the time diagnosed, appeared different from DSM-IV \"schizophrenia\" or \"mood disorder with psychotic features.\"\n\nBut DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder carries an unnecessarily worse prognosis than a \"mood disorder with psychotic features\" diagnosis, because long-term data revealed that a significant proportion of DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder patients had 15-year outcomes indistinguishable from patients with mood disorders with or without psychotic features, even though the clinical picture at the time of first diagnosis looked different from both schizophrenia and mood disorders.\n\nThese problems with the DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder definition result in most people the diagnosis is used on being misdiagnosed; furthermore, outcome studies done 10 years after the diagnosis was released showed that the group of patients defined by the DSM-IV and ICD-10 schizoaffective diagnosis had significantly better outcomes than predicted, so the diagnosis carries a misleading and unnecessarily poor prognosis. The DSM-IV criteria for schizoaffective disorder will continue to be used on U.S. board examinations in psychiatry through the end of 2014; established practitioners may continue to use the problematic DSM-IV definition much further into the future also.\n\nThe new schizoaffective disorder criteria continue to have questionable diagnostic validity. Questionable diagnostic validity does not doubt that people with symptoms of psychosis and mood disorder need treatment—psychosis and mood disorder must be treated. Instead, questionable diagnostic validity means there are unresolved problems with the way the DSM-5 categorizes and defines schizoaffective disorder.\n\nA core concept in modern psychiatry since DSM-III was released in 1980, is the categorical separation of mood disorders from schizophrenia, known as the Kraepelinian dichotomy. Emil Kraepelin introduced the idea that schizophrenia was separate from mood disorders after observing patients with symptoms of psychosis and mood disorder, over a century ago, in 1898. This was a time before genetics were known and before any treatments existed for mental illness. The Kraepelinian dichotomy wasn't used for DSM-I and DSM-II because both manuals were influenced by the dominant psychodynamic psychiatry of the time, but the designers of DSM-III wanted to use more scientific and biological definitions. Consequently, they looked to psychiatry's history and decided to use the Kraepelinian dichotomy as a foundation for the classification system.\n\nThe Kraepelinian dichotomy continues to be used in DSM-5 despite having been challenged by data from modern psychiatric genetics for over eight years, and there is now evidence of a significant overlap in the genetics of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. According to this genetic evidence, the Kraepelinian categorical separation of mood disorders from schizophrenia at the foundation of the current classification and diagnostic system is a mistaken false dichotomy.\n\nThe dichotomy at the foundation of the current system forms the basis for a convoluted schizoaffective disorder definition in DSM-IV that resulted in excessive misdiagnosis. Real life schizoaffective disorder patients have significant and enduring symptoms that bridge what are incorrectly assumed to be categorically separate disorders, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. People with psychotic depression, bipolar disorder with a history of psychosis, and schizophrenia with mood symptoms also have symptoms that bridge psychosis and mood disorders. The categorical diagnostic manuals don't reflect reality in their separation of psychosis (via the schizophrenia diagnosis) from mood disorder, nor do they currently emphasize the actual overlap found in real-life patients. Thus, they are likely to continue to introduce either-or conceptual and diagnostic error, by way of confirmation bias into clinicians' mindsets, hindering accurate assessment and treatment.\n\nThe new definition continues the lack of parsimony of the old definition. Simpler, clearer, and more usable definitions of the diagnosis were supported by certain members of the DSM-5 workgroup (see next paragraph); these were debated but deemed premature, because more \"research [is] needed to establish a new classification system of equal or greater validity\" to the existing system. Because of DSM-5's continuing problematic categorical foundation, schizoaffective disorder's conceptual and diagnostic validity remains doubtful. After enough research is completed and data exists, future diagnostic advances will need to either eliminate and replace, or soften and bridge, the hard categorical separation of mood disorders from schizophrenia; most likely using a spectrum or dimensional approach to diagnosis.\n\nMore parsimonious definitions than the current one were considered by Carpenter and the DSM-5 workgroup:\nOne option for the DSM-5 would have been to remove the schizoaffective disorder category and to add affective [or mood] symptoms [that is, mania, hypomania, mixed episode, or depression] as a dimension to schizophrenia and schizophreniform disorder \"or\" to define a single category for the co-occurrence of psychosis and mood symptoms. This option was extensively debated but ultimately deemed to be premature in the absence of sufficient clinical and theoretical validating data justifying such a … reconceptualization. Additionally, there appeared to be no practical way to introduce affect [or mood] dimensions covering the entire course of illness, that would capture the current concept of periods of psychosis related and unrelated to mood episodes.\n\nThe field of psychiatry has begun to question its assumptions and analyze its data in order to merge closer with evidence-based medicine. The removal of the \"episode diagnosis,\" and the addition of two episodes of psychosis, as qualifications for the DSM-5 schizoaffective diagnosis, may improve the diagnosis' consistency over DSM-IV for research purposes, where diagnostic criteria are by necessity followed \"exactingly\". But the new definition remains long, unwieldy, and perhaps still not very useful for community clinicians—with two psychoses, one for two weeks minimum and without mood disorder (but the person can be mildly or moderately depressed) and the other with significant mood disorder and psychosis lasting for most of the time, and with lasting mood symptoms for most of the residual portion of the illness. Community clinicians used the previous definition \"for about a third of cases with non-affective psychotic disorders.\" Non-affective psychotic disorders are, by definition, not schizoaffective disorder. For clinicians to make such sizeable errors of misdiagnosis may imply systemic problems with the schizoaffective disorder diagnosis itself. Already, at least one expert believes the new schizoaffective definition hasn't gone far enough to solve the previous definition's problems.\n\nFrom a scientific standpoint, modern clinical psychiatry is still a very young, underdeveloped medical specialty because its target organ, the human brain, is not yet well understood. The human brain's neural circuits, for example, are just beginning to be mapped by modern neuroscience in the Human Connectome Project and CLARITY. Clinical psychiatry, furthermore, has begun to understand and acknowledge its current limitations—but further steps by the field are required to significantly reduce misdiagnosis and patient harm; this is crucial both for responsible patient care and to retain public trust. Looking forward, a paradigm shift is needed in psychiatric research to address unanswered questions about schizoaffective disorder. The dimensional Research Domain Criteria project currently being developed by the U.S. National Institutes of Mental Health, may be the specific problem solving framework psychiatry needs to develop a more scientifically mature understanding of schizoaffective disorder as well as all other mental disorders.\n\nThe primary treatment of schizoaffective disorder is medication, with improved outcomes using combined long-term psychological and social supports. Hospitalization may occur for severe episodes either voluntarily or (if mental health legislation allows it) involuntarily. Long-term hospitalization is uncommon since deinstitutionalization beginning in the 1950s, although it still occurs. Community support services including drop-in centers, visits by members of a community mental health team, supported employment and support groups are common. Evidence indicates that regular exercise has a positive effect on the physical and mental health of those with schizoaffective disorder.\n\nParticipating in internet forums is sometimes used by people with schizoaffective disorder in addition to outpatient medication treatment.\n\nSkillfully delivered psychosocial treatments are perhaps the most important component of pushing for and encouraging improved overall functioning in schizoaffective disorder. Supportive psychotherapy and cognitive behavioral therapy are both helpful. Intensive case management (ICM) has been shown to reduce hospitalizations, improve adherence to treatment, and improve social functioning. With ICM, clients are assigned a case manager responsible for coordination of care and assisting clients to access supports to address needs in multiple areas related to well-being, including housing.\n\nHigh quality psychosocial or psychiatric rehabilitation is very important for recovery from schizoaffective disorder. Psychiatric or psychosocial rehabilitation focuses on solving community integration problems such as obtaining and keeping housing and increasing involvement in positive social groups. It also focuses on improving and increasing activities of daily living; increasing daily healthy habits (such as normalizing sleep-wake cycles; increasing early morning natural light exposure; increasing moderate exercise [such as 2030 minutes of moderate to brisk early morning to pre-afternoon walking daily, in order to help normalize circadian rhythms]; helping individuals understand the specific benefits of healthy food choices; increasing stress-reduction activities such as yoga, tai chi, or meditation); and decreasing unhealthy behaviors (such as substance abuse and smoking); thereby significantly improving quality of life. High quality psychiatric rehabilitation may also focus on vocational rehabilitation including preparing the client for volunteer, part-time paid work, returning to school for further education, job skills training for full-time flexible or supported employment, and other client self-improvement efforts. Core principles of effective psychiatric rehabilitation must include providing \"hope\" when the client lacks it, \"respect for the client\" wherever they are in the recovery process, \"empowering\" the client, teaching the client \"wellness planning\", and emphasizing the importance for the client to develop \"social support networks\". A long-term goal of psychiatric and vocational rehabilitation is that the client learn and actively engage in active stress management while in education or employment, while receiving treatment.\n\nPsychiatric rehabilitation consists of eight main areas:\n\n\nFew medications are approved specifically for schizoaffective disorder. In general, medications are chosen to reduce symptoms of psychosis and mood disorder.\n\nAntipsychotic medication is usually required both for acute treatment and the prevention of relapse. There is no single antipsychotic of choice in treating schizoaffective disorder, but atypical antipsychotics should be considered because they have mood-stabilizing activity. Paliperidone is an antipsychotic with FDA approval for the treatment of schizoaffective disorder. Antipsychotics should be used at the minimum dose necessary to control symptoms. Potential side effects include extrapyramidal symptoms, including tremor, muscle stiffness, and restlessness or akathisia. Atypical antipsychotics carry a risk of metabolic syndrome, including weight gain, increased blood sugar, and increased blood cholesterol, so regular monitoring of weight and bloodwork should be carried out. Some atypical antipsychotics, such as ziprasidone and aripiprazole, are associated with less risk than others, such as olanzapine. Medication choice is based on how effectively it reduces symptoms, how few side effects it causes, and cost.\n\nIn people with treatment-refractory psychosis, a clozapine trial should be considered. Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic that is recognized as being particularly effective when other antipsychotic agents have failed. Clozapine should also be considered in people with chronic and persistent suicidal thinking and behaviour, as it has been shown to reduce the risk of suicide in patients with schizoaffective disorder and a history of suicidality. Between 0.5 and 2% of patients taking clozapine may develop a life-threatening complication called agranulocytosis, which is a significant drop in a type of white blood cell. Because of this risk, people taking clozapine must have regular monitoring of blood cell counts.\n\nThe management of the bipolar type of schizoaffective disorder is similar to the treatment of bipolar disorder, with the goal of preventing mood episodes and cycling. Lithium or anticonvulsant mood stabilizers such as valproic acid, carbamazepine, and lamotrigine are prescribed in combination with an antipsychotic.\n\nFor depression, if an antidepressant is prescribed, \"extra attentiveness must be given\" by the prescribing clinician due its risk for long-term mood cycle acceleration (that is, inducing more frequent episodes of depression per unit of time) and medication-induced psychosis or mania. For individuals who show emerging psychosis, mania, mixed episode symptoms, or mood cycle acceleration, switching to an antipsychotic plus lithium or lamotrigine is preferable to antidepressants.\n\nFor individuals who experience anxiety, anti-anxiety medications can be used, usually on a short-term basis. Benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, clonazepam and diazepam, are types of anti-anxiety medications. Care must be taken when prescribing benzodiazepines due to the risk of the person developing tolerance and dependence.\n\nElectroconvulsive therapy, or ECT, may be considered for patients with schizoaffective disorder experiencing severe depression or severe psychotic symptoms that have not responded to treatment with antipsychotics.\n\nSchizoaffective disorder is estimated to occur in 0.5 to 0.8 percent of people at some point in their life. It is more common in women than men; however, this is because of the high concentration of women in the depressive subcategory, whereas the bipolar subtype has a more or less even gender distribution.\n\nThe term \"schizoaffective psychosis\" was introduced by the American psychiatrist Jacob Kasanin in 1933 to describe an episodic psychotic illness with predominant affective symptoms, that was thought at the time to be a good-prognosis schizophrenia. Kasanin's concept of the illness was influenced by the psychoanalytic teachings of Adolf Meyer and Kasanin postulated that \"schizoaffective psychosis\" was caused by \"emotional conflicts\" of a \"mainly sexual nature\" and that psychoanalysis \"would help prevent the recurrence of such attacks.\" He based his description on a case study of nine individuals.\n\nOther psychiatrists, before and after Kasanin, have made scientific observations of schizoaffective disorder based on assumptions of a biological and genetic cause of the illness. In 1863, German psychiatrist Karl Kahlbaum (18281899) described schizoaffective disorders as a separate group in his \"vesania typica circularis\". Kahlbaum distinguished between cross-sectional and longitudinal observations. (\"Cross-sectional\" refers to observation of a single, specific episode of the illness, for example, one episode of psychotic depression; while \"longitudinal\" refers to long-term observation of many distinct episodes [similar or different] often occurring over the span of years.) In 1920, psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin (18561926), the founder of contemporary scientific psychiatry, observed a \"great number\" of cases that had characteristics of both groups of psychoses that he originally posited were two distinct and separate illnesses, \"dementia praecox\" (now called schizophrenia) and \"manic depressive insanity\" (now called bipolar disorders [plural since there are more than one type of bipolar disorder] and recurrent depression).\n\nKraepelin acknowledged that \"there are many overlaps in this area,\" that is, the area between schizophrenia and mood disorders. In 1959, psychiatrist Kurt Schneider (18871967) began to further refine conceptualizations of the different forms that schizoaffective disorders can take since he observed \"concurrent and sequential types\". (The \"concurrent type\" of illness he referred to is a longitudinal course of illness with episodes of mood disorder and psychosis occurring predominantly at the same time [now called psychotic mood disorders or affective psychosis]; while his \"sequential type\" refers to a longitudinal course predominantly marked by alternating mood and psychotic episodes.) Schneider described schizoaffective disorders as \"cases in-between\" the traditional Kraepelinian dichotomy of schizophrenia and mood disorders.\n\nThe historical clinical observation that schizoaffective disorder is an overlap of schizophrenia and mood disorders is explained by genes for both illnesses being present in individuals with schizoaffective disorder; specifically, recent research shows that schizophrenia and mood disorders share common genes \"and\" polygenic variations.\nSchizoaffective disorder was included as a subtype of schizophrenia in DSM-I and DSM-II, though research showed a schizophrenic cluster of symptoms in individuals with a family history of mood disorders whose illness course, other symptoms and treatment outcome were otherwise more akin to bipolar disorder than to schizophrenia. DSM-III placed schizoaffective disorder in \"Psychotic Disorders Not Otherwise Specified\" before being formally recognized in DSM-III-R. DSM-III-R included its own diagnostic criteria as well as the subtypes, bipolar and depressive. In DSM-IV, published in 1994, schizoaffective disorders belonged to the category \"Other Psychotic Disorders\" and included almost the same criteria and the same subtypes of illness as DSM-III-R, with the addition of mixed bipolar symptomatology.\n\nDSM-IV and DSM-IV-TR (published in 2000) criteria for schizoaffective disorder were poorly defined and poorly operationalized. These ambiguous and unreliable criteria lasted 19 years and led clinicians to significantly overuse the schizoaffective disorder diagnosis. Patients commonly diagnosed with DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder showed a clinical picture at time of diagnosis that appeared different from schizophrenia or psychotic mood disorders using DSM-IV criteria, but who as a group, were longitudinally determined to have outcomes indistinguishable from those with mood disorders with or without psychotic features. A poor prognosis was assumed to apply to these patients by most clinicians, and this poor prognosis was harmful to many patients. The poor prognosis for DSM-IV schizoaffective disorder was not based on patient outcomes research, but was caused by poorly defined criteria interacting with clinical tradition and belief; clinician enculturation with unscientific assumptions from the diagnosis' history (discussed above), including the invalid Kraepelinian dichotomy; and by clinicians being unfamiliar with the scientific limitations of the diagnostic and classification system.\n\nThe DSM-5 schizoaffective disorder workgroup analyzed all of the available research evidence on schizoaffective disorder, and concluded that \"presenting symptoms of psychosis have little validity in determining diagnosis, prognosis, or treatment response.\" Given our understanding of overlapping genetics in bipolar disorders, schizoaffective disorder, and schizophrenia, as well as the overlap in treatments for these disorders; but given the lack of specificity of presenting symptoms for determining diagnosis, prognosis or treatment response in these psychotic illness syndromes, the limits of our knowledge are clearer: \"Presenting symptoms of psychosis describe only presenting symptoms to be treated, and not much more\". Schizoaffective disorder was changed to a longitudinal or life course diagnosis in DSM-5 for this reason.\n\nEvidence is sorely lacking about schizoaffective disorder's (likely multiple) causes and mechanisms (knowing these leads to specific and consistently effective treatments), and about how exactly mood episodes and psychosis are related (knowing this may lead to a simpler, clearer, and more usable behavioral definition of the disorder; as well as a better diagnostic system). Whether schizoaffective disorder is a variant of schizophrenia (as in DSM-5 and ICD-10 classification systems), a variant of bipolar disorder, or part of a dimensional continuum between psychotic depression, bipolar disorders and schizophrenia is currently being investigated.\n\nResearch into the assessment and treatment of schizoaffective disorder will rely less on DSM and ICD criteria as time progresses, and more on the dimensional Research Domain Criteria currently being developed by the U.S. National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH). The Research Domain Criteria initiative, led by Bruce Cuthbert, Ph.D., of NIMH, is the inspiration for the Roadmap for Mental Health Research in Europe (ROAMER). The purpose of the Research Domain Criteria initiative is to address the marked variability and overlap within and among the disorder categories, and to foster development of more effective assessment and treatment for each individual patient. Over the coming decades, advances resulting from the Research Domain Criteria in the U.S. and ROAMER in Europe will be incorporated into future versions of the DSM and ICD, with the hope of eventually leading to personalized mental health of greater diagnostic accuracy and with more targeted and useful treatments, including biomedical, psychosocial, and possibly preventive approaches.\n\n"}
{"id": "2216865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2216865", "title": "Selkup language", "text": "Selkup language\n\nSelkup language is the language of the Selkups, belonging to the Samoyedic group of the Uralic language family. It is spoken by some 1,570 people (1994 est.) in the region between the Ob and Yenisei Rivers (in Siberia). The language name \"Selkup\" comes from the Russian \"\" (\"selkupsky yazyk\"), based on the native name used in the Taz dialect, шӧльӄумыт әты \"šöľqumyt әty\", lit. \"forest-man language\". Different dialects use different names.\n\nSelkup is fractured in an extensive dialect continuum whose ends are no longer mutually intelligible. The three main varieties are the Taz (Northern) dialect (, \"tazovsky dialekt\"), which became the basis of the Selkup written language in the 1930s, Tym (Central) dialect (, \"tymsky dialekt\"), and Ket dialect (, \"ketsky dialekt\"). It is not related to the Ket language.\n\nThere are 25 vowel and 16 consonant phonemes in the Taz dialect.\n\n\nSelkup has a syllable structure (C)V(C). Word-initial and word-final or do not occur. Various consonant clusters and geminate consonants such as may occur, though many potential combinations occurring morphologically are simplified.\n\nStress in Selkup is marginally phonemic. Generally the rightmost long vowel in a word is stressed, or otherwise the first syllable, but certain suffixes with short vowels may acquire stress, leading to minimal pairs such as \"to stamp down\" vs. \"to stamp once\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41308584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41308584", "title": "Siva Balaji", "text": "Siva Balaji\n\nSiva Balaji (born as Siva Balaji Manoharan on 14 October 1980) is an Indian actor, television personality, and producer who is known for his works in the Telugu Film Industry, as well as a few Tamil films. He was introduced as a hero by director Suresh Krissna through the film \"Idi Maa Ashokgadi Love Story\" (2003). He shot to fame with his performance as a hot blooded youth with gray shades in the cult classic \"Arya (2004 film)\" (2004). He continued to star in films such as \"Sankranti\" (2005), \"Englishkaran\" (2005), \"Pote Poni\" (2006), \"Chandamama\" (2007), \"Shambo Shiva Shambo\" (2010), \"Katamarayudu\" (2017), and \"Snehamera Jeevitham\" (2017). Siva Balaji is best known for appearing in several successful films as the solo lead, part of multistarrers, and in supporting roles. He won the Copper Nandi Award for his performance in the film \"Pothe Poni\".\n\nSiva Balaji is also a notable television personality. He appeared on the Telugu version of the Bigg Boss reality show that is broadcast on Star Maa, where he emerged as the title winner of Bigg Boss Telugu season 1. He was also a wildcard contestant along with his wife Madhumitha on the dance TV show \"Neethone Dance\".\n\nSiva Balaji was born and brought up in Chennai, Tamil Nadu. He attended Karthikeyan Metriculation Higher Secondary School. He has a younger sister Gayathri Lingam who is married to Yathendra Lingam, and younger brothers Prashanth Balaji and Krishna Sai. In 2009, he married actress Madhumitha, whom he paired in his film \"Englishkaran\". They have two sons, Dhanvin Kangula, born on 11 February 2010 and Gagan Kangula, born on 28 November 2014.\n\nSiva Balaji started working in his father's Sri Balaji Group of companies (Sri Balaji Cylinders pvr ltd, Sri Balaji Valves Pvt ltd (DPR), and Sri Srinivasa cylinders pvr ltd (hot repair unit)) when he was 17 and established his own MSB Industries (valves, regulators and components manufacturing industry) at the age of 20. \nHe got his first film offer in 2002 at the age of 22 which made him leave his entrepreneurship and choose films, as his father strictly advised him to choose, either films or business. \nHe started shooting for his first film \"Idi Maa Ashokgadi Love Story\" on 23 September 2002, followed by a role in \"Ela Cheppanu\" and the lead role in \"Dost\". \nHis major break came through the film \"Arya (2004 film)\" directed by Sukumar. Playing the role of Ajay, local MPs spoiled brat son, who is adamant and very possessive lover, gained him critical acclaim which made him a star in the Telugu film industry. Reviewer from Idlebrain.com quoted \"Siva is good as adamant, at times confused, lover. He generated comedy in few scenes where he shows his frustration.\" Reviewer from Sify.com wrote \" Siva as Ajay is very promising.\" It was followed by \"Sankranti\", in which he shared screen space with actors Daggubati Venkatesh and Srikanth.\n\nHe took up \"Kumkuma\" an emotional heart touching script in 2005. He got his debut Tamil film \"Englishkaran\" in the same year, it was a huge hit also in Telugu. He got 5 releases in 2006, \"Pothe Poni\", \"Kokila\", \"Sarada Saradaga\", \"Aganthakudu\" and \"Annavaram\". His film \"Pothe Poni\" directed by Tammareddy Bharadwaja, won Golden Nandi Award, which got him Copper Nandi Award for the same. In 2007 two of his films- \"Pagale Vennela\" and \"Chandamama\" were released. \"Chandamama\" directed by Krishna Vamsi, \"Navdeep\" was another lead and movie succeeded well at the box office and gained huge applause for him in the role of good-hearted Village boy. Kajal Aggarwal, and Sindhu Menon were the heroines of the film. \"Target\" released in 2008 and that's a wrong choice made. He did \"Mast\" in 2009 produced by actor Suresh. \"Shambo Shiva Shambo\" directed by Samuthirakani was another milestone in his career released in 2010 and was a huge success. He worked with Ravi Teja and Allari Naresh in the film, while Priyamani, and Abhinaya were the heroines. He took up supporting roles for \"Janda Pai Kapiraju\" and \"Katamarayudu\", both of which helped him gain more fame post his commercial failures at the box office. He appeared in the reality show Bigg Boss Telugu, which he won on 24 September 2017. Post the success and popularity of Bigg Boss, he has returned back to lead roles in films, marked by his film in 2017 \"Snehamera Jeevitham\", and has also appeared in dance show \"Neethone Dance\". He is all set to star in a multistarrer in 2018 with Navdeep once again after \"Chandamama\" and appearing in Bigg Boss Telugu together.\n"}
{"id": "12482383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12482383", "title": "Slovenian Red Cross", "text": "Slovenian Red Cross\n\nThe Slovenian Red Cross () is a non-government and non-profit humanitarian organisation, part of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement. It was established in Gradac in June 1944, at first as part of the Yugoslav Red Cross. It became an independent entity after the Slovenian proclamation of independence in 1991. It has its headquarters in Ljubljana, Slovenia. \n\n"}
{"id": "26203820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26203820", "title": "Society for the History of Discoveries", "text": "Society for the History of Discoveries\n\nSociety for the History of Discoveries (or SHD), founded in 1960, is an international, United States-based, organization formed to stimulate interest in teaching, research, and publishing the history of geographical exploration. Its members include those from several academic disciplines as well as archivists, non-affiliated scholars, and laypersons with an interest in history. SHD advances its goals by organizing annual meetings at which pertinent scholarly research papers are presented, by publishing a scholarly journal with articles on geographic exploration, and by annually offering an award to student research papers in the field. The Society is a US non-profit 501(c)(3) organization administered by a voluntary and unpaid team of council members and officers. Membership is open to all who have an interest in the history of geographical exploration. It publishes a semiannual journal, \"Terrae Incognitae\".\n\nThe origin of the Society for the History of Discoveries (SHD) can be traced back to the summer of 1960 at an academic conference in Lisbon, Portugal, that commemorated the quincentenery of the death of Prince Henry the Navigator. American scholars John (Jack) Parker, Thomas (Thom) Goldstein, and Vsevolod (Steve) Slesarev, determined that there should be an organization in the United States that would encourage research into the history of exploration and discovery. Later, in December 1960, Goldstein posted a notice at the New York City meeting of the American Historical Association inviting interested parties to meet at a nearby restaurant. The people who attended that December 1960 luncheon constituted themselves as an executive board for a period of one year, and proceeded to organize SHD.\n\nAt the beginning of 1961, there were a total of twenty-one members in the Society. The appeal of this newly created learned Society was wide. Because there were no barriers to qualify for membership, within a short time historians, geographers, librarians, museum curators, archivists, philosophers, mathematicians, linguists, cartographers, navigators, medical doctors, editors, book sellers, book and map collectors, and independent scholars comprised the membership. Also, because there were no gender barriers, women scholars readily found a friendly intellectual home, and not only were they among the earliest members attracted to the new Society, they quickly assumed leadership positions. By 2010, the organization’s membership counted over three hundred people, and numerous institutions subscribe to the Society’s journal, \"Terrae Incognitae\".\n\nThe founding members established the major goals to stimulate interest in teaching, research, and publishing the history of geographical exploration. Since its inception, the scope of the Society's activities encompasses the discovery, exploration, and mapping of the earth's land and sea surface from earliest times to the present - the explorers and the explored. Fields of specialization thus include the history of European expansion, the history of cartography, navigation, colonial settlement, biography, and bibliography. To further its mission, the Society since 1969 has published annually a journal, \"Terrae Incognitae\", and a newsletter, which since 2000 is titled \"Terra Cognita\".\n\nRecords of the Society are archived in Special Collections at The University of Texas at Arlington Library.\n\nDuring most of its history, the Society was governed by three elected officers and six members of Council. The officers were President, Vice President, and Secretary-Treasurer. In 2006, the by-laws were changed to add another officer. Because the demands on the Secretary-Treasurer had grown, the office of Secretary-Treasurer was divided into two positions, Executive Secretary and Treasurer. Duties are found at the Society’s Articles of Association, available via the Society website. Council meets formally at the annual meeting, and during the year via email and other technologies.\n\nThe Society for the History of Discoveries determined at its 1966 annual meeting at West Point, New York, to publish an annual journal. It has become a major part of the Society’s identity, and all agree that the unpaid editor performs the Society’s most difficult and important task. Bruce Solnick was appointed Executive Editor, and first published by Nico Israel in Amsterdam, the first volume of \"Terrae Incognitae\" appeared in 1969. The peer-reviewed journal was published annually from 1969 through 2010. Beginning in 2011, the journal is published semiannually. Past and current editors are listed at the Society website. In addition to scholarly articles, each issue of \"Terrae Incognitae\" includes reviews of recent literature, and since 1979, an extensive bibliography of recent publications related to exploration and discovery. Beginning in 2008 the editorial board of \"Terrae Incognitae\" extended the number of book reviews to be published in each issue.\n\nA paper by Commodore Pieter Verhoog was read by John Parker at the Columbus, Ohio, annual meeting in 1980 which interested those in attendance so much that a special session on the Columbus 1492 landfall was scheduled at the next annual meeting in Athens, Georgia. In addition to focusing on the Columbus landfall at the meeting, John Parker and Louis De Vorsey were charged with producing a special issue dedicated to the first landfall, and it was published in 1983 as Volume 15. It was re-published in 1985 by Wayne State University Press as a book titled \"In the Wake of Columbus: Islands and Controversy\". One important and enduring result of the scholarship represented in Volume 15 was a highly received new translation of Columbus’ \"Diario\" by two Society members, Oliver Dunn and James Kelley, which was published to acclaim by the University of Oklahoma Press in 1991.\n\nBeginning in 2010, \"Terrae Incognitae\" is published by Maney Publishing, an independent publisher operating internationally. Maney produces the journal, both printed hard copies and also, in the future, an online version. Maney will provide a full back issue archive online for institutional subscribers, and freely searchable electronic abstracts. When Maney began publication of the journal in 2010, it announced that it would scan and make available in electronic form the back issues to the membership.\n\nPublished by the University of Chicago Press:\n\nAlong with \"Terrae Incognitae\", the Society for the History of Discoveries also publishes an annual report each autumn, and 'Terra Cognita', a newsletter in the spring. These documents, prepared by the Executive Secretary, include Council and business meeting minutes, election results, membership (including a directory) information, reports from committees, abstracts of papers read at the annual meeting, information on upcoming meeting sites, obituaries, various announcements of interest to members, a financial report, and one of the most popular functions, news of members. Periodically, the Society’s Articles of Association are reprinted.\n\nThe venues of annual meeting are contingent upon invitations from universities, libraries, maritime museums, map societies, and from organizations familiar with the purpose of the Society. Since 1960, annual meetings usually are held in the Fall, but the 1989 and 1997 meetings were held in the Summer. On several occasions, the Society met jointly with the Hakluyt Society, the North American Society for Oceanic History, and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "55828454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55828454", "title": "Somalis in Norway", "text": "Somalis in Norway\n\nSomalis in Norway are citizens and residents of Norway who are of Somali descent.\n\nIn 1999, the Norwegian Directorate of Immigration (Norwegian: \"Udlendingsdirektoratet\", UDI) started to use blood testing on Somalis who applied for family reunification with parents, the tests showed that 1 out of 4 lied about the family ties. The tests were later changed to DNA tests to verify family ties. The leader of a Somali community organization in Norway and the Norwegian Medical Association protested the tests and wished they would be discontinued. In 2010, UDI started DNA-tests on Somali childless couples who applied for family reunification where one spouse already resided in Norway. The results showed that 40% of such pairs were siblings. As the tests became widely known, the ratio dropped to 25% and the tests were widended to migrants from other regions.\n\nIn 2004, Somali women had the highest nativity rate in Norway with 4.4 children per female, in contrast to 1.73 for Norwegian women.\n\nAccording to Statistics Norway, as of 2017, there are a total 28,696 persons of Somali origin living in Norway. Of those, 12,767 individuals were born in Norway to immigrant parents.\n\nAccording to the Oslo Municipality, as of 2014, a total of 8,758 Somalia-born immigrants reside in Oslo. Of those individuals, many arrived during the 2000-2004 period (2,811 persons).\n\nAccording to Statistics Norway, as of 2012-2014, the percentage of Somalia-born immigrants in Norway with a persistently low income averaged out at 70.7%. This was a higher proportion than the native population and other immigrant groups, largely because most Somali individuals arrived as asylum immigrants, who tend to have lower incomes. The percentage of Somalia-born immigrants with a persistently low income has also steadily declined the longer that the individuals have resided in Norway, with proportions of 94.2% among 3 year Somalia-born residents, 74.7% among 4-9 year residents, and 61.6% among residents of 10 years or longer. This was relative to immigrant averages of 26.3% overall, 50.3% among 3 year residents, 28.5% among 4-9 year residents, and 20.2% among residents of 10 years or more. As of 2014, around 72% of Somalia-born immigrants have a persistently low income, with individuals born in Norway to Somali immigrants having a smaller low income percentage of approximately 65%.\n\nAccording to Oslo municipality, about 50-70% of Somali males in Oslo are habitual users of khat, a narcotic banned in Norway. The narcotic is expensive on the black market which is a contributing factor to destroying household economics.\n\nAccording to Statistics Norway, in the 2001 to 2010-2013 period, the estimated proportion of Somalia-born perpetrators of criminal offences aged 15 and older in Norway decreased from 227 to 124 per 1000 residents. This was compared to averages of 44.9 among native Norwegians and 112.9 among Norway-born residents with parents of foreign origin.\n\nAccording to a Statistics Norway report in 2017 investigating crime among immigrants in the 2010-2013 period, it was found Somalis, together with Iraqis, Iranians and Afghans had the highest over-represented as perpetrators of crime. With 125 perpetrators out of 1000, Somalis were over-represented when compared to the Norwegian population (45 out of 1000). Over-representation of Somali perpetrators remained at 90 out of 1000 after gender balance, age distribution, city of residence and employment was adjusted for.\n\nAccording to Statistics Norway, as of 2016, among a total 24,651 Somalia-born immigrants aged 16 and older, 15,944 individuals had attained a below upper secondary education level, 3,709 had attained an upper secondary education level, 122 had attained a tertiary vocational education level, 1,793 had attained a higher education level of up to four years in duration, 378 had attained a higher education level of more than four years in duration, and 2,705 had no education.\n\nAccording to Statistics Norway, as of 2016, Somalia-born immigrants aged 15-74 in Norway have an employment rate of approximately 32.4%. , their unemployment rate was also about 7.5%.\n\nStatistics Norway has been criticized for misrepresenting employment levels for African migrants due to employment was counted from 1 weekly hour of work. Counting full-time employment as 30 hours of work per week, 11% of women from Somalia were in full-time employment with another 10% having 1-19 hours of work. According to Nettavisen, Somali females differ strongly in employment patterns to Polish women, where the latter are joining the workforce more rapidly, have twice as high an employment level and they stay in the workforce much longer.\n"}
{"id": "11024299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11024299", "title": "Southern Oromo language", "text": "Southern Oromo language\n\nSouthern Oromo, or Borana (after one of its dialects), is a variety of Oromo spoken in southern Ethiopia and northern Kenya by the Borana people. Günther Schlee also notes that it is the native language of a number of related peoples, such as the Sakuye.\n\nDialects are Borana proper (Boran, Borena), possibly Arsi (Arussi, Arusi) and Guji (Gujji, Jemjem) in Ethiopia and, in Kenya, Karayu, Salale (Selale), Gabra (Gabbra, Gebra) and possibly Orma and Waata.\n\nThe language is locally and commonly known as \"afaan borana\" (\"Borana language\").\n"}
{"id": "34155848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34155848", "title": "Square dancing (China)", "text": "Square dancing (China)\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, square dancing or plaza dancing (), is an exercise routine performed to music in squares, plazas or parks of the nation's cities. It is popular with middle-aged and retired women who have been referred to as \"dancing grannies\" in the English-language media. Due to its low cost and ease of participation, it has been estimated to have over 100 million practitioners, according to CCTV, the country's official television network.\n\nThe practice has roots in both ancient and modern Chinese history. Dancing for exercise has been recorded as developed millennia ago in Emperor Yao's China, and during the Song Dynasty the public spaces of cities were noted for their use in performance. Most of the women who square dance came of age during the Cultural Revolution, when folk dances such as \"yangge\" were widely performed, often as propaganda. Some have confirmed that this nostalgia is one of their reasons for taking part, although the benefits of the exercise and socialization opportunities also play a role.\n\nSquare dancers dance to a variety of music, mostly Chinese popular songs, both contemporary and historic. The hobby began in the mid-1990s, as middle-aged women who had been forced into retirement began doing it to keep themselves occupied. Its popularity notwithstanding, square dancing has been the subject of considerable controversy in the 2010s China due to complaints of noise pollution in the evening or morning hours. Dancers in China's increasingly populous cities congregate in public areas because there are few dedicated facilities where they could go. Residents of nearby apartment complexes who have been disturbed by the high volume of multiple dance groups' musical accompaniment, especially late in the evening and early in the morning when they are trying to sleep, have sometimes reacted violently.\n\nIn 2015 the Chinese government reacted to these complaints and incidents by prescribing a set of standardized routines for all dancers to follow, claiming they would be culturally unifying and healthier. The move was met with widespread criticism. Some Chinese complained that it did nothing to address the noise issues; others said the dancers should be free to choose their own routines. The real problem, yet others said, was not only the lack of better places for the dancing but the lack of other social opportunities for the women. The government soon clarified that the routines it created and promoted were only meant to be healthy alternatives to existing ones and were not required.\n\nThe groups congregate in the early morning and evening, any time of year, at parks or public squares, or anywhere they can find enough space, regardless of what other use that space may nominally have, such as a parking lot. Morning dancers try to avoid parks since they are preferred locations for \"taiji\", the martial arts school whose slowed-down moves are often practiced as exercise, known as \"tai chi\" in the West. They begin as early as 5:30 a.m., and tend to use spaces nearer supermarkets so they are better positioned to bargain for and purchase fresh vegetables when the markets open. In the evening they tend to start dancing after dinner; for this reason spaces used by square dancers in the evening tend not to be too far from their homes as they also may have to tend to grandchildren they may be watching while their own children work late. \n\nDancers organize themselves into rank and file. The front rank comprises the most proficient dancers, the best being in the center. Each rank back from the one in front contains dancer who are less proficient. All the dancers face forward. This allows dancers to learn from those in the rows ahead. The back rank is often populated with beginners just learning the moves, while the front rows are well-coordinated.\n\nSome groups have gotten large, as many as 80 members in some cases. Leaders of these large groups charge a small fee to regular attendees to support the use of the electronics. It is reported as being either per month or ¥20 annually. One group in Changsha, however, was said to charge twice that.\n\nGroups sometimes split if one experienced dancer feels she can lead a group of her own, especially if there are dancers dissatisfied with the current leaders' interpretation of the songs. Groups that form by such splits often consider themselves in competition. These can take the nature of friendly, organized events, or more serious competition for the best spaces available and the loudest sound.\n\nApparel varies greatly. Many groups' members show up in street clothes or exercise clothing similar to that worn for aerobics or yoga in the West. More advanced groups sometimes wear costumes and use props. \"The New York Times\" reported seeing one group in green fatigues, dancing to songs from the Korean War era. A Beijing group attracted international attention in summer of 2014 for performing Cultural Revolution-era songs like \"Without the Communist Party, There Would Be No New China\" outside a local shopping mall every night, wearing military uniforms and using toy guns as props.\n\nThe music is usually broadcast from a portable CD player and amplifier on wheels, powered by a large vehicle battery. Accompaniment varies. Some groups dance to Western pop or even waltzes, but most choose Chinese popular songs with a dance beat, such as the 2014 hit \"Little Apple\", or older hits from the 1950s, often with propagandist lyrics. Some dances are complicated and demanding, but the majority are low-impact routines that primarily consist of holding the dancer's arms in front of the body in varied positions. For this reason they are often referred to derisively as \"zombie dances.\"\n\n\"It's good for my health to be able to come out and exercise,\" a retiree told the \"Los Angeles Times\". \"I used to be quick to lose my temper, but now nothing bothers me,\" a similarly aged retired paper mill worker explained to \"The New York Times\" about the effect square dancing had had on her. \"When I dance, I forget all my cares. And I can also hike up mountains with little effort.\"\n\nA recent survey found that Shanghai residents have more tolerance for square dancing. According to the report, 75% of residents supported the group dancing, and 73% of young residents supported it. Beyond that, most residents said they thought \"guangchangwu\" is good for health, both mental and physical – 62% saw regular dancing as exercise and recreation, and 61% believed it helps elderly people expand their social circles and dispel loneliness.\n\nDance as a form of exercise has a long history in China. The \"Lüshi Chunqiu\", an encyclopedia compiled in the third century B.C.E., during the Spring and Autumn period, describes how, two millennia earlier in the time of Emperor Yao, people began to dance slowly in order to reinvigorate their muscles after lengthy rains had kept them indoors, sometimes leading to joint diseases. Eventually they began dressing up in costumes and using props. \"As time passed, they discovered that some activities could promote appetite, strengthen muscles and bones, and get rid of fatigue,\" writes one historian of Chinese traditional medicine. \"Over a longer period of time, these activities became arranged in rhythms and movements which were harmonious and graceful—now they had dancing.\" While these may have eventually evolved into modern breathing exercises, other commentators suggest a public aspect to such dancing analogous to modern square dancing may have been refined in later eras, such as the religious dances of the Warring States period that preceded the rise of Imperial China. A writer in \"Youth Times\" sees it as similar to public dancing in the Song Dynasty of the late first millennium C.E.\n\nChen Tong, a graduate student in landscape architecture at Ohio State University, traces the origins of modern square dancing to the Cultural Revolution that swept China during the 1960s and early '70s, in the broader context of the country's urbanization. In 1949, the Communist Party of China (CPC) won the Chinese Civil War and established the People's Republic of China. A decade later, CPC chairman Mao Zedong began the Great Leap Forward economic development initiative to accelerate industrialize the Chinese economy. At the time most Chinese still lived in rural areas, as they had for centuries. Some had already moved to cities to take industrial jobs, but to better realize the aspirations of the Great Leap Forward, many of them moved or were forcibly relocated.\n\nIn cities during the Great Leap, there was an emphasis on collective use of public space even for activities that had usually taken place in the home. For example, entire neighborhoods were required to eat their dinner in public dining halls. Ultimately, the Great Leap Forward proved disastrous, failing to industrialize effectively and causing famine due to labor shortages on farms. In 1962, the government began allowing people to move back to farms.\n\nSoon afterward, the Cultural Revolution began. Organized youth styling themselves the Red Guards revolted against both Chinese traditions and official Chinese communism, preferring the purity of Maoism. Since urban intellectuals' thought was believed to have been tainted by awareness or memory of capitalism, many were sent to rural areas to live, work and be properly re-educated through review of Mao's writings. This, too, caused great hardship and economic disruption.\n\nIn the rural areas they were relocated to, the urbanites first encountered the \"yangge\" folk dance, very popular in rural areas, particularly in northern China. Originally performed to mark important agricultural occasions, \"yangge\" had been adapted by the CPC for its own uses as a propaganda tool. Performances often helped relieve tensions between the party and the peasantry during times when food was scarce, although during the more repressive period of the Cultural Revolution, \"yangge\" was itself banned along with many other traditional forms of expression.\n\nThe Cultural Revolution ended with Mao's death in 1976. Following the arrest and trial of the Gang of Four, including Mao's widow, for perpetrating it, Deng Xiaoping took over as CPC chairman and instituted a program of economic reform which continues as \"socialism with Chinese characteristics\". The pace of urbanization picked up again afterwards. As younger Chinese moved from farms to cities, found jobs and started families, their parents often moved in with them to better supervise their grandchildren.\n\nForeign dance trends, such as ballroom, which had been suppressed during the Cultural Revolution, returned. Women who had experienced the brunt of the Cultural Revolution and its dislocations in their teens and young adulthood, including the exposure to and participation in \"yangge\" performances, began to reach mandatory retirement age in the mid-1990s, or were laid off from state-run enterprises following privatization. Some also began experiencing marital stress as husbands began having extramarital affairs with younger women, left home for long periods of time to work elsewhere, or both. They returned to dance as a way to stay fit, relieve boredom and socialize.\n\nSome dancers themselves make this historical connection. \"When I do the dances, it reminds me of my younger years when I was doing similar dances during the Cultural Revolution,\" a retired driver in her mid-60s told the \"Los Angeles Times\" in 2014. \"I feel the same kind of spirit and emotions.\" Another woman, whose troupe used the \"red songs\" written during that era, was more political. \"The[y] can always remind us what the Chinese leaders did for us to have a good life today and how they fought hard for the ordinary people in China.\"\n\nThe cities they were living in, however, lacked sufficient space for such activities. Chinese urban planners had prioritized commerce and industry, often demolishing older neighborhoods with small houses and replacing them with large high-rise apartment complexes, increasing population density. Streets were widened to accommodate automobile traffic, driving many activities that had once taken place there elsewhere. Although there were parks, there were severe shortages of urban open space, especially in rapidly growing cities. The small city of Xuanhua northwest of Beijing had, as of 2013, a mere of open space per resident, far below the suggested by the World Health Organization, as compared with per resident in Beijing and in New York or in Warsaw.\n\nAt first, they joined older Chinese in practicing \"taiji\", the slow martial arts school known in the West as \"tai chi\", and the newer practices of Falun Gong. \"Tai chi\"'s philosophy strongly encourages its practice in parks, closer to nature, and space there was scarce. Falun Gong was outlawed by the government in 1999, eliminating that option for exercise. So, the women, referred to as \"dàmā\"s (), often rendered in the English press as \"grannies\", began finding their own spaces to dance in the way they had in their youth.\n\nThe \"dama\"s ranks continued to grow along with China's cities. By 2008 half of the country's population was living in an urban environment. That year they received unintentional official encouragement when the government promoted fitness all over the country in anticipation of that year's Olympics in Beijing.\n\nIn the 2010s square dancing began to draw notice both in China and abroad. A Jiangsu TV network sponsored a contest, drawing participants from seven cities. Its successful broadcast drew more participants into the squares and plazas. In 2014 the Chopstick Brothers featured square dancers in the video for their hit song \"Little Apple\"; the dancers returned the favor by making it a popular tune for their routines.\n\nHowever, square dancers also came into conflict with residents of the areas that surrounded their preferred spaces. Many were younger workers who complained that this noise pollution kept them or their families from getting needed rest, especially if different groups of dancers began turning their music up to compete with each other. \"One man bouncing his infant daughter says he fears the first words she will speak are the saccharine lyrics that waft in daily through the walls and windows,\" the BBC reported in 2013. The dancers also drew complaints that they blocked building entrances, sidewalks or parking lots.\n\nThe annoyed residents have sometimes taken it upon themselves to quiet the dancers' din. In Wenzhou, one group pooled the equivalent of US$40,000 to purchase a sound system of their own loudly reminding dancers to comply with Chinese noise pollution laws. Wuhan residents threw human excrement on dancers from the tops of their neighboring towers. In a 2013 incident that gained national attention, a man in Beijing's outlying Changping District was arrested after he fired a shotgun in the air and set his three Tibetan Mastiffs on a nearby group of dancers.\n\nAltercations have arisen among the dancers themselves. In Qingyuan, two groups of rival dancers allegedly came to blows when they tried to share a small space at a local park. A court ordered one group to pay the other's medical costs.\n\nDancers have also taken their dances overseas. A dance on Moscow's Red Square provided no incident, but other square dancers have not been so lucky in other countries (similarly, Russians visiting cities in Manchuria have joined in the square dances). Two mainland Chinese women visiting Taipei decided to do their dance in the hotel lobby, attracting attention from guests there and causing friction with hotel management. A group dancing in Sunset Park, home of one of the earliest Chinatowns in the New York City borough of Brooklyn, made headlines in August 2014 when its leader was arrested for violating a city ordinance forbidding sounds over 45 decibels; the charge was later dropped.\n\nSquare dancers' response to clashes with residents over noise has been mixed. While one group of dancers in Xi'an's Weiyang District voluntarily agreed to limit its routines to certain times and noise levels, others have been more defiant. \"The louder the music, the more fun it is,\" one dancer told \"The New York Times\" in 2015. Song Jiahong, a humanities professor at Yunnan University, says this apparent insensitivity to loud noise is another effect of the Cultural Revolution, when propaganda read over loudspeakers was a constant feature of daily Chinese life. \"The intimate memories of the loudspeakers are lodged deep in the subconscious of the old Red Guards,\" he wrote. \"They have no concept that this can actually annoy others.\"\n\nBut other analysts wrote that the problem went deeper than that. Tong writes: \n\nAs a remedy that his home city of Xuanhua could implement, he suggested closing off lanes of less busy streets in the neighborhoods favored by square dancers to create temporary pedestrian space. He estimated that this could provide up to per dancer in the city.\n\nIn March 2015 two government agencies, the State General Administration of Sports and the Ministry of Culture, announced the development of 12 model square dancing routines it had hired and trained instructors to introduce around the country. \"Dancing in public squares represents the collective aspect of Chinese culture, but now it seems that the overenthusiasm of participants has dealt it a harmful blow with disputes over noise and venues,\" explained Liu Guoyong, director of General Administration of Sports' public fitness department. \"So we have to guide it with national standards and regulations.\" Xinhua, the government's press agency, explained that the new routines would help make square dancing \"a nationally unified, scientifically crafted new activity that brings positive energy to the people.\" The announcement was accompanied by a video set to \"Little Apple\" demonstrating one of the new routines.\n\nDespite the tension between square dancers and residents of the areas they danced in, most Chinese opposed the move and supported the square dancers' right to choose their own music and dances. \"This isn't a business,\" one dancer told the \"Times\". \"Dancing is free and voluntary, so why does the government need to get involved?\" Their disapproval was echoed in some of the country's media. \"What the grannies need are venues, not regulated routines,\" said RedNet, an online news portal. \"Only an increase of public sports venues can satisfy urban and rural residents' need for fitness routines such as football and square-dancing, and lessen the phenomenon where square-dancing disturbs residents and takes up all the parks and public spaces.\" In Shanghai, the \"Xinmin Evening News\" pointed out that \"The biggest tragedy is not the square dance by grannies, but the fact that grannies have nothing else to do than square-dance.\"\n\nOther commentators expressed more practical concerns, such as whether the higher-impact routines were ideal for older women. \"Who pays the medical bills if the grannies hurt themselves doing these?\", asked one person on a CCTV social media site. Wang Guangcheng, the fitness trainer who developed the routines, said that concern was misplaced. None of the groups of dancers he tested them on had any complaints, he said. \"Some even asked that the moves be more complicated.\"\n\nShortly afterwards, officials stated that the new routines were not meant to be the only ones permitted, contrary to what the original announcement had stated. \"We saw that some people on the Internet were worried that the new regulations meant all over China people would only be allowed to dance these twelve routines,\" said Liu. \"Of course that's impossible. It's a misunderstanding.\" Many Chinese took this to be a tacit admission that the hostile reaction to the routines, and the sheer number of square dancers, meant that government realized it would be impossible to displace existing square-dance routines with its own.\n\nWang had earlier clarified that he designed the routines to provide fuller exercise than the ones he saw on the streets. His routines were designed to involve the entire body, and incorporate dance moves from styles the Chinese public was not yet widely familiar with such as salsa and the Zumba fitness routine. He hoped that the more intense routines would widen the demographic of square dancers. \"I want to see more young people dancing in public squares.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3753018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3753018", "title": "The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five", "text": "The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\n\nThe Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five is a 1980 science fiction novel by Doris Lessing. It is the second book in her five-book \"Canopus in Argos\" series, the first being \"Shikasta\" (1979). It was first published in the United States in March 1980 by Alfred A. Knopf, and in the United Kingdom in May 1980 by Jonathan Cape.\n\nThe novel takes place in three of six metaphysical Zones that encircle the planet Shikasta (an allegorical Earth), and concerns two ordained marriages that link the patriarchal Zone Four with the matriarchal Zone Three, and the tribal Zone Five. The story is told from the point of view of the matriarchal utopian Zone Three, and is about gender conflict and the breaking down of barriers between the sexes. Lessing called the \"Canopus in Argos\" series \"space fiction\", but \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" is generally referred to as feminist science fiction.\n\nThe novel is influenced by spiritual and mystical themes in Sufism, an Islamic belief system in which Lessing had taken an interest in the mid-1960s. The zones are said to correspond to Sufism's different levels of consciousness, and symbolise the \"Sufi ladder to enlightenment\". Lessing was criticised for abandoning her traditional fiction and switching to science fiction in her \"Canopus in Argos\" series. Notwithstanding this criticism, \"The Marriages\" was generally well received by critics, with some reviewers calling it one of Lessing's best works on the topic of gender conflict.\n\n\"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" was adapted as an opera by composer Philip Glass with story-libretto by Lessing, and premiered in German in Heidelberg, Germany in May 1997. The United States premiere in English was performed in Chicago in June 2001. These productions were not very well received by theatre critics.\n\nIn the opening book of the \"Canopus in Argos\" series, \"Shikasta\", Lessing introduced six metaphysical Zones (akin to cosmological planes) that encircle the planet Shikasta (an allegorical Earth). These Zones, numbered One to Six, each represent different levels of spiritual being. \"Shikasta\" only deals with Zone Six, the innermost and least pure of the Zones, which one commentator described as \"a kind of purgatory in which humans wait out the time between incarnations on earth\". Adjacent Zones in the numerical sequence border each other, from Zone Six (the lowest) up to Zone One (the highest and purest), each with a terrain more mountainous than the previous.\n\nThree of the Zones in this spiritual landscape feature in \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\", which Lessing describes as self-contained \"countries\", each with their own \"societies\". Zone Two, highest in the spiritual hierarchy, is located high in the mountains at the edge of Zone Three, which in turn occupies the hills bordering the lowlands of Zone Four, which is adjacent to the flat desert terrain of Zone Five.\n\nThe story opens when the Providers, the invisible and unidentified rulers of all the Zones, order Al•Ith, queen of the peaceful paradise of Zone Three, to marry Ben Ata, king of the militarised and repressive Zone Four. Al•Ith is repulsed by the idea of consorting with a barbarian, and Ben Ata does not want a righteous queen disturbing his military campaigns. Nevertheless, Al•Ith descends to Zone Four and they reluctantly marry. Ben Ata is not used to the company of women he cannot control, and Al•Ith has difficulty relating to this ill-bred man, but in time they grow accustomed to each other and gain new insights into each other's Zones. Al•Ith is appalled that all of Zone Four's wealth goes into its huge armies, leaving the rest of its population poor and underdeveloped; Ben Ata is astounded that Zone Three has no army at all.\n\nThe marriage bears a son, Arusi, future heir to the two Zones. Some of the women of Zone Four, led by Dabeeb, step in to help Al•Ith. Suppressed and downtrodden, these women relish being in the presence of the queen of Zone Three. But soon after the birth of Arusi, the Providers order Al•Ith to return to Zone Three without her son, and Ben Ata to marry Vahshi, queen of the primitive Zone Five. Al•Ith and Ben Ata have grown fond of each other, and are devastated by this news.\n\nBack in Zone Three, Al•Ith finds that her people have forgotten her, and her sister, Murti• has taken over as queen. Disturbed by the changes she sees in Al•Ith, Murti• exiles her to the frontier of Zone Two. Al•Ith, drawn by its allure, tries to enter Zone Two, but finds an unworldly and inhospitable place and is told by invisible people that it is not her time yet. At the frontier of Zone Five, Ben Ata reluctantly marries Vahshi, a tribal leader of a band of nomads who terrorise the inhabitants of her zone. But Ben Ata's marriage to Al•Ith has changed him, and he disbands most of his armies in Zone Four, sending the soldiers home to rebuild their towns and villages and uplift their communities. He also slowly wins over Vahshi's confidence and persuades her to stop plundering Zone Five.\n\nWhen Arusi is old enough to travel, Dabeeb and her band of women decide to take him to Zone Three to see Al•Ith. This cross-border excursion is not ordered by the Providers, and Ben Ata has grave misgivings about their decision. In Zone Three the women are shocked to find the deposed Al•Ith working in a stable near Zone Two. While Al•Ith is pleased to see her son, she too has misgivings about Dabeeb's action. The bumptious women's travels through Zone Three evoke feelings of xenophobia in the locals.\n\nAfter five years of silence, the Providers instruct Ben Ata to go and see Al•Ith in Zone Three. At the border, he is surprised to find a band of youths armed with crude makeshift weapons blocking his way. Clearly they want no more incursions from Zone Four. Ben Ata returns with a large army and enters Zone Three unchallenged. He is not well received, but finds Al•Ith with a small band of followers who have moved to the frontier of Zone Two to be close to her. Ben Ata and Al•Ith reunite; he tells her of the reforms he has introduced in Zone Four and his taming of the \"wild one\" from Zone Five.\n\nOne day Al•Ith enters Zone Two and does not return. But the changes set in motion by the two marriages are now evident everywhere. The frontiers between Zones Three, Four and Five are open, and people and knowledge are flowing between them. Previously stagnant, the three Zones are now filled with enquiry, inspiration and renewal.\n\nWhen Lessing published \"Shikasta\" in 1979, the first book in her \"Canopus in Argos\" series, it represented a major shift of focus for the author. In her earlier books, Lessing had established a name for herself as a writer of realistic fiction; in \"Shikasta\" she introduced her readers to the spiritual and mystical themes in Sufism. In the mid-1960s Lessing had become interested in Sufism, an Islamic belief system, after reading \"The Sufis\" by Idries Shah. She described \"The Sufis\" as \"the most surprising book [she] had read\", stating that it \"changed [her] life\". Lessing later met Shah, who became \"a good friend [and] teacher\". In the early 1970s Lessing began writing inner space fiction, which included the novels \"Briefing for a Descent into Hell\" (1971) and \"Memoirs of a Survivor\" (1974), and in the late 1970s she turned to science fiction when she wrote \"Shikasta\", in which she used many Sufi concepts.\n\nLessing said that ideas for \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" had been with her for about ten years, but she \"couldn't think of a way to do it\". It was only when she was halfway through \"Shikasta\" that she realised that she had \"created a marvelous format\" that she could use for other books, and it was this format, \"Canopus in Argos\", that made \"The Marriages\" possible. \"Shikasta\" was originally intended to be a single self-contained book, but Lessing's fictional universe developed, and she ended up writing a series of five.\n\nLessing's switch to science fiction was not well received by readers and critics. By the late 1970s Lessing was considered \"one of the most honest, intelligent and engaged writers of the day\", and Western readers unfamiliar with Sufism were dismayed that Lessing had abandoned her \"rational worldview\". George Stade of \"The New York Times\" complained that \"our Grand Mistress of lumpen realism has gone religious on us\". Reaction to the first two books in the series, \"Shikasta\" and \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\", prompted Lessing to write in the Preface to the third book in the series, \"The Sirian Experiments\" (1980):\n\nFurther criticism of the \"Canopus\" series followed, which included this comment by \"New York Times\" critic John Leonard: \"One of the many sins for which the 20th century will be held accountable is that it has discouraged Mrs. Lessing ... She now propagandizes on behalf of our insignificance in the cosmic razzmatazz.\" Lessing replied by saying: \"What they didn't realize was that in science fiction is some of the best social fiction of our time. I also admire the classic sort of science fiction, like \"Blood Music\", by Greg Bear. He's a great writer.\" Lessing said in 1983 that she would like to write stories about red and white dwarves, space rockets powered by anti-gravity, and charmed and coloured quarks, \"[b]ut we can't all be physicists\".\n\nLessing considered \"Marriages\" one of her better books, and said, \"this book goes down into me pretty deep ... it will never happen again\". In an interview published in 1996, Lessing spoke passionately of the novel:\n\n\"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" is told largely from the point of view of the matriarchal utopian Zone Three, which places the novel in the category of feminist utopias or feminist science fiction. The \"Canopus in Argos\" series in general falls under the banner of soft science fiction, or \"space fiction\" as Lessing called it, due to its focus on characterisation and social and cultural issues, and the de-emphasis of science and technology. Comparative literature professor Robert Alter suggested that this kind of writing belongs to a genre that literary critic Northrop Frye called the \"anatomy\", which is \"a combination of fantasy and morality\". Author Gore Vidal placed Lessing's science fiction between John Milton and L. Ron Hubbard\". American screenwriter and film director Frank Pierson called Lessing's science fiction \"mythic tale[s]\" that are closer to Tolkien's \"Lord of the Rings\" and Herbert's \"Dune\" than works by Clarke and Asimov. British writer Graham Sleight said \"The Marriages\" comes closest to Ursula Le Guin's works in the way that both Lessing and Le Guin scrutinise societies. Sleight compared \"The Marriages\" to Le Guin's science fiction novel \"The Dispossessed\" (1974), saying that each revolves around conflicts between differing worldviews, namely the Zones in \"The Marriages\", and Anarres and Urras in \"The Dispossessed\".\n\n\"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" differs from the other books in the \"Canopus in Argos\" series in that it reads like a fable and is set in a metaphysical, or \"psychic\" space, outside the rest of the series' \"normal\" space/time universe. The story concerns two ordained marriages that link the patriarchal and militaristic Zone Four with the matriarchal and egalitarian Zone Three, and the tribal and barbaric Zone Five. It focuses on, what \"Time\" magazine reviewer Paul Gray calls, the \"struggles between men and women and the dimensions of sex and love\". Literary critic Diana Sheets says that the book is about overcoming gender differences and opening up new possibilities. She argues that the premise of the story is that \"cosmic order is ideally realized when men and women cross the gender divide and attempt genuine communication—sexually, emotionally ... thereby setting the preconditions for the attainment of enlightened consciousness.\"\n\nThe marriages were ordained by the Providers because the zones had stagnated and the birth rate of both humans and animals had fallen. Author Thelma J. Shinn says that, as in \"Shikasta\", Lessing's \"pessimistic view of human capabilities still keeps control in a benevolent power rather than in the hands of the individual\". But after a push in the right direction, the individual triumphs: Al•Ith and Ben Ata initiate changes in both their own and their neighbouring zones.\n\nLiterature academic Jayne Ashleigh Glover says that while Zone Three on the surface appears to be a feminist utopia, Lessing shows that it is far from idyllic. The story narrators, the Chroniclers of Zone Three, question their zone's behaviour and attitudes, and warn of the dangers of stagnation. Al•Ith, upon returning to Zone Three, is shunned by its inhabitants for failing to attend to their zone's needs, and Zone Three's stasis manifests itself in xenophobia when Al•Ith brings back new perspectives, followed by visitors from Zone Four.\n\nGlover sees Al•Ith, Ben Ata and Vahshi as allegories for their respective zones, and the marriages between them as marriages between the zones, as stated by the title of the book. Author Müge Galin says that Al•Ith functions according to the nature of Zone Three rather than as an individual. Galin also argues that the six zones correspond to Sufism's different levels of consciousness. Both Al•Ith and Ben Ata are able to experience other levels of consciousness when they travel to each other's zones, but Al•Ith can perceive and experience the neighbouring zone far deeper than Ben Ata because she is from a higher zone/level of consciousness. Galin says that on the \"Sufi ladder to enlightenment\", those on higher rungs must pull up those on lower rungs. Thus Al•Ith can only move to Zone Two after she has pulled Ben Ata up to Zone Three.\n\nCritic John Leonard, in a review in \"The New York Times\", described \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" as \"a remarkable recovery\" from \"Shikasta\", which he called a \"disaster\". He said \"The Marriages\" works for him because it comes across as a fable, like an instructive Sufi tale. Writing in \"HuffPost Culture\", University of Bristol academic Tom Sperlinger called the book \"a legend\" and listed it amongst his five recommended Lessing books that she as written since \"The Golden Notebook\" (1962). Pierson found the book \"enjoyable\", despite the \"dry and bookish sound[ing]\" dialogue which felt like a translation. He added that readers familiar with Lessing's fortitude in \"The Golden Notebook\" may not appreciate her allegory in \"The Marriages\". While she is still \"passionate, opinionated and outraged\" here, Pierson said Lessing has withdrawn from writing about the real world and chosen to \"soar unsteady currents of whimsy, dreams [and] mysticism\".\n\nSeveral reviewers were impressed with the way Lessing tackled the subject of sexual politics in the book. Paul Gray remarked in a review in \"Time\" magazine, that contrary to appearances, \"The Marriages\" is not a feminist parable, but added that while Lessing often wrote about gender conflict, she has never done it \"with more sweetness, compassion and wisdom\" than she has in this novel. Leonard commended Lessing for considering both sides of the gender divide and for being both critical and forgiving of Ben Ata and Al•Ith. Leonard said that Lessing had never written \"a gentler book\", adding, however, that her 1973 novel, \"Summer Before the Dark\", comes a close second. A reviewer in \"Kirkus Reviews\" also complemented Lessing on her handling of sexual conflict. While the review was critical of Lessing's prose style, and called her descriptions of the Zone Four war economy \"a silly cartoon sketch\", it said that \"there is a ... generosity about this work not quite like anything she has done\".\n\nReviewing the novel in the \"Roswell Daily Record\", American journalist Christopher Lehmann-Haupt called \"The Marriages\" one of Lessing's more accessible books because, in his opinion, her tendency to philosophise works better in fantasy than in other formats. Author Lucille deView was more critical of book. Writing for \"The Christian Science Monitor\", she complained that \"The Marriages\" is not as romantic a novel as it could have been. She said that the fate of the book's mismatched lovers did not interest her and that their love came across as forced instead of passionate. What could have been an emotionally charged romance became \"a calculated intellectual game\". DeView also criticised Lessing's characters, saying that they \"have the familiarity of childhood fairy tales with a little Walt Disney thrown in\".\n\n\"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" was adapted for the opera in 1997 by composer Philip Glass with story-libretto by Lessing. It was commissioned by the state of Baden-Württemberg and HeidelbergCement in Germany. The two-act opera for orchestra, chorus and soloists had its world premier in Heidelberg, Germany in May 1997 under the direction of Thomas Kalb (music) and Birgitta Trommler (stage), with libretto translated into German by Saskia M. Wesnigk. Lessing said that for the opera she expanded her allegory about gender relations: \"There was room for two festivals: a woman's festival and a marriage festival. There are a lot of lyrics not in the novel.\" A new production of the opera, directed by Harry Silverstein with music conducted by Robert Kaminskas, premiered for the first time in English in the United States in June 2001 at the Merle Reskin Theatre in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe German premiere was not well received by the press, and \"Chicago Tribune\" music critic John von Rhein found faults in the United States production. He said that the novel \"falls flat as music theater\", there is \"no compelling dramatic narrative\", and the music \"drifts along innocuously\". Von Rhein also complained that \"score breaks no new stylistic ground, nor does it define the characters dramatically\".\n\nIn 1988, Glass had adapted another book from the \"Canopus in Argos\" series, \"The Making of the Representative for Planet 8\", into a three-act opera with story-libretto by Lessing. It was commissioned by the Houston Grand Opera, the English National Opera, the Amsterdam Music Theatre and the Kiel Opera House. The opera premiered in Houston, Texas in July 1988, and received a lukewarm review by \"New York Times\" music critic John Rockwell.\n\n\"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" was first published in March 1980 in hardcover by Alfred A. Knopf in the United States, and in May 1980 by Jonathan Cape in the United Kingdom. The first paperback edition was published by Panther Books in November 1980 the United Kingdom, and in the United States by Vintage Books in August 1981. A Kindle edition was released in the United Kingdom in June 2012 by Fourth Estate. In December 1992 the five books in the \"Canopus\" series, including \"The Marriages\", were published in a single volume entitled \"Canopus in Argos: Archives\" by Vintage Books in the United States. \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" has been translated into several other languages including Dutch, French, German, Spanish, Swedish and Turkish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25181935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25181935", "title": "The Millennium Breach", "text": "The Millennium Breach\n\nThe Millennium Breach was sponsored by the Eisenhower Foundation to mark the thirtieth anniversary of the Kerner Report on March 1, 1998. The Kerner Report was released by the Kerner Commission, a committee established by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968 to investigate the causes of the 1967 race riots in the United States and to provide recommendations for the future. The infamous passage of the Kerner Report found, \"Our nation is moving toward two societies, one black, one white—-separate and unequal.\"\n\nThe Millennium Breach was written by Fred R. Harris, Lynn A. Curtis, and other Eisenhower trustees. The Breach presents the Foundation’s position on practical policy and how to replicate the grassroots non-profit, inner-city programs that have been effective since the release of the original Kerner Report in 1968. It targets private and public policymakers and inner-city community practitioners.\n\nThe breach documents the following trends since the release of the Kerner Report in 1968:\n\n\nThe report recommended the adoption of national policies based on what the Eisenhower Foundation believed to have been effective policies in education, employment, economic, development, race and criminal justice since the Kerner Commission. The following policies were recommended: \n\n\n\"The Milton S. Eisenhower Foundation\" \n"}
{"id": "10858643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10858643", "title": "The Slowskys", "text": "The Slowskys\n\n\"The Slowskys\" are a national television advertising campaign for Comcast Cable's Xfinity broadband Internet service. The ads feature an animatronic turtle couple, Bill and Karolyn Slowsky. The ads are based on the idea that DSL, which Xfinity claims is slower than their service, is only fast enough for people who like things very slow. In the television ads, the two turtles are usually shown together explaining why they are so happy with DSL service, and that if they got Xfinity, it would be far too fast for them.\n\nThe characters were created by Goodby Silverstein & Partners of San Francisco, produced by RSA, puppeteered by Stan Winston. The campaign won the gold Effie Award in 2007.\n\nTheSlowskys.com was a character blog on which everything slow is celebrated. Recently however, the blog was taken down and replaced by a peaceful, permanent flash widget that included their commercials. \n\nA knockoff of \"The Slowskys\" by Canadian cable provider Shaw Communications is called \"The Snailskis\".\n\nComedian Andrew Donnelly is the voice of Bill Slowsky and actress (and former member of The Groundlings) Rachael Harris provides the voice for Karolyn. \n\nLater on, when the Slowsky fad reached its peak, the Slowskys Website created a fictional campaign in which the Slowsky couple traveled around their block in an old fashioned political circuit. On top of their vehicle, multiple bullhorns would amplify the Slowsky's voices so that people could hear them. The advertising video showed the Slowskys in the vehicle, and with Bill screaming \"BE STILL WITH BILL!\", much to Karolyn's annoyance, with \"Hail to the Chief\" playing in the background. The party even offered membership cards and requested slogans for their platform.T\n\n"}
{"id": "6167109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6167109", "title": "Trade (gay slang)", "text": "Trade (gay slang)\n\nTrade (also known as Chow) is a gay slang term originating from Polari, the coded language among English subcultures, and usually refers to the casual partner of a gay man or to the genre of such pairings. Men falling in the category of \"trade\" are not gay-identified. Historically the motivations may at times include a desire for emotional fulfillment and admiration, but the term often refers to a straight man who partners with a gay man for economic benefit, either through a direct cash payment or through other, more subtle means (gifts, tuition payments, etc.). Trade originally referred to casual sex partners, regardless of sexuality as many gay and bisexual men were closeted, but evolved to imply the gay partner is comparatively wealthy and the partner who is trade is economically deprived. Examples of this include wealthy Englishmen finding partners among deprived Cockneys in 1930s London; traveling men finding partners in places such as Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and Bangkok, Thailand and locals picking up military personnel who are generally seen as being physically appealing and eager for extra income or benefits.\n\nMore modern usage has centered on any casual sexual encounter between men, and as an adjective to refer to any male considered masculine and/or sexually appealing.\n\nOften, the terms \"trade\" and rough trade are treated as synonymous. Often the attraction for the gay male partner is finding a dangerous, even thuggish, partner who may turn violent. That is not to say that people necessarily desire to be physically hurt, but the danger of seeking a partner in a public park, restroom, or alleyway may be exciting. Another variation is in comparison to regular trade, rough trade is more likely to be working-class laborers with less education and more physical demands of their work, therefore with a body developed naturally rather than in a gym. They may have a less polished or cleancut style than an office worker or professional businessman.\n\nRoyal favourites may at times have been trade. The label could perhaps be applied to George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham, the favourite of James I of England.\n\nWhile members of the African army and the Coldstream Guards in particular have long been regarded as coming from relatively elite backgrounds, guardsmen have also had a long and celebrated reputation as sexual partners to wealthier partners. This has led to their figuring in plays by playwrights such Georges Feydeau and Ferenc Molnár as partners to adulterous society ladies, as well as to their performing as partners of men. The novelist J. R. Ackerley wrote in his memoir \"My Father and Myself\" that he considered his guardsman father to have been the lover of an aristocrat for a long period of time before pursuing a wife and family, economically bettered in the end by the support he had received from his male partner.\n\nIn any relationship with rough trade, one takes a risk of becoming the object of violence. The 1975 murder of film director Pier Paolo Pasolini has been attributed to Pasolini's dalliance with rough trade. Similar rumors circulated about the 1976 death of American actor Sal Mineo but statements from his killer cite a botched mugging and allegations otherwise are unsubstantiated. In 2005 German designer Rudolph Moshammer was killed by a 25-year-old Iraqi asylum-seeker with whom he had had sex but refused to pay for it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004404", "title": "Tubalar", "text": "Tubalar\n\nThe Tubalar are an ethnic group native to the Altai Republic in Russia. \n\nAccording to the 2010 census, there were 1,965 Tubalars in Russia.\n\nThe villages with the highest population of Tubalars are Artybash, Iogach, Novotroitsk, Tuloi, Tondoshka, Kebezen, Ust-Pyzha, Biyka, Yailu, Chuyka, Torochak, Paspaul, Salganda, Karakoksha, Tunzha, Krasnoselskoye, Uskuch, Uimen, and Karasuk. \n\nThe sacred tree of Tubalars is the cedar, a symbol of the power, beauty and courage of taiga. The Holiday of Cedar is a celebration of this tree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22469462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22469462", "title": "Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act (1970)", "text": "Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act (1970)\n\nThe Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act (1970) (\"URA\") was passed by the U.S. federal government in 1970. It was intended to ensure fair compensation and assistance for those whose property was compulsorily acquired for public use under \"eminent domain\" law. Similar provisions have been introduced by most of the individual States.\n\nThis Act was a series of provisions codified in 1971 to ensure fair treatment of those displaced by federally funded programs, federally assisted programs or state and local agencies receiving federal funds. It was intended to make federal efforts to compensate these persons subjected to federal eminent domain efforts standard and uniform. The Act has since been amended at least three times.\n\nThe Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) may fund some of these displacement projects. That Department lists the Act's essential objectives as follows:\n(1) to provide uniform, fair and equitable treatment of persons whose real property is acquired or who are displaced in connection with federally funded projects; (2) to ensure relocation assistance is provided to displaced persons to lessen the emotional and financial impact of displacement; (3) to ensure that no individual or family is displaced unless decent, safe and sanitary housing is available within the displaced person's financial means; (4) to help improve the housing conditions of displaced persons living in substandard housing; and (5) to encourage and expedite acquisition by agreement and without coercion.\nTo be an eligible \"displaced person,\" the Act sets forth factors for qualification:\nIf one moves from real property, or moves personal property from their real property as a result of a written notice of intent to acquire, the initiation of negotiations for, or the acquisition of, the real property, in whole or in part, due to a federally funded program or one with federal assistance; or on which such person is a residential tenant or conducts a small business, farm operation, or a business as a direct result of rehabilitation, demolition, or other displacing activity, as the lead agency may prescribe, under a program or project undertaken by a federal agency or with federal financial assistance in any case in which the head of the displacing agency determines that the displacement is permanent.\nOnce found to be eligible under the URA, such a displaced person can receive a range of benefits, or compensation types. Importantly, instead of merely \"market value,\" many property owners can obtain \"replacement value\" for their original property. Arguably, this goes above and beyond the Supreme Court's general standard that, under the Fifth Amendment's Just Compensation Clause, an owner need only be paid \"fair market value\" for their property.\n\nThe URA endeavors to achieve this replacement value through providing the displacees with actual moving expenses, including mortgage and closing costs. Businesses even get $10,000.00 in reestablishment expenses. Displacees (not just owners, but lessees too) can also receive replacement advisory services to provide guidance in finding a new residence or business location. Not only that, but if such replacement housing is not readily available, the displacing body is authorized to do what is necessary to get such housing—including excess payments and even purchasing, rehabilitating, or building a new dwelling for the dislocated owner.\n\nSubsidizing displacees under the URA can be very beneficial in some cases, to the extent that the Act will provide an owner with an improved living situation. There are provisions under the URA that may mandate furnishing a larger residence to the displacee. Further, stipends are supposed to be limited to $22,500.00 for a homeowner to put toward buying a new home, yet there is evidence that more funds will be dispensed if necessary.\n\nThe HUD website details all of the general requirements under the URA, including notice prerequisites, pre-negotiation appraisals, offers, payments prior to possession, etc.\n\nMost states have enacted similar legislation and require very similar relocation compensation for displacement by state-level activities. Typically, the language of their statutes mirror that of the URA, though of late, some states have raised the amounts of compensation for dislocated businesses, with both goodwill and business value as traits of respective statutes. Connecticut's parallel version of the URA is one that attempts to compensate goodwill to non-chain businesses by allowing one to claim up to $10,000.00 of one's annual net income due to loss of a \"substantial part of their patronage.\" Connecticut provides that a state agency can choose to utilize the compensation levels under the Federal URA in lieu of the state's act. Its own relocation compensation requirements are lower than the URA's.\n\nIt is important to note that the Federal URA addresses interaction with the states regarding funding of projects and compensation of owners. Any state agency receiving funding from a federal counterpart must demonstrate similar compensation efforts as that of the Act (albeit there is no indication that the state's benefits must be the same or higher), and that federal agency is prohibited from supplying the monies unless it has received the appropriate assurances from the state that fair and reasonable compensation is made for an owner's relocation.\n"}
{"id": "50730399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50730399", "title": "Uruguayans in Cuba", "text": "Uruguayans in Cuba\n\nUruguayans in Cuba are people born in Uruguay who live in Cuba, or Cuban-born people of Uruguayan descent. .\n\nDuring the civic-military dictatorship of Uruguay (1973-1985) several Uruguayans went into exile in Cuba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27652744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27652744", "title": "Vera Beaudin Saeedpour", "text": "Vera Beaudin Saeedpour\n\nVera Marion Beaudin Saeedpour (pronounced sah-EED-por; \"née\" Fine; March 27, 1930 – May 30, 2010) was an American researcher and scholar who specialized in the study of Kurdish people. She founded the Kurdish Heritage Foundation of America, the first library and museum in the United States dedicated to the subject. The foundation is located in the Prospect Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn in New York City.\n\nSaeedpour was born Vera Marion Fine in Barre, Vermont on March 27, 1930, to Jewish immigrants from Russia. Her father sold scrap metal and rags for a living. \n\nShe grew up in the only Jewish family in the town. At age 17, she eloped with Marcel Beaudin and moved to Brooklyn, where she worked at a bakery. She later spent eight years working as an assistant to New York City real estate developer Seymour Durst. The couple had four sons, Marc, Paul, Adam and Jeb, and one daughter, Rebecca. Their marriage ended in divorce.\n\nAt age 40 she enrolled at the University of Vermont, where she earned a bachelor's degree in sociology and a master's degree in philosophy. After her divorce from Beaudin, she enrolled at Teachers College, Columbia University, where she earned a Ph.D. in 1976.\n\nWhile at Columbia, she moved to an apartment in Harlem. When her home was robbed, she called out to a man in an apartment across the street to ask if he had witnessed the burglary. That man, Homayoun Saeedpour, a 26-year-old Kurd from Sanandaj, later rang her doorbell and offered cake and flowers. They married soon after.\n\nAfter her marriage to Saeedpour, Vera developed an interest in the plight of the Kurdish people. She was unfamiliar with the Kurds and their history when she first met her husband, but a decade later she felt she got to \"know the Kurds better than any Westerner living\". At one point, in need of a bone marrow transplant to treat his leukemia, her husband's doctor refused to treat him, believing that he was Persian.\n\nThey were married 5 years. Following her husband's death, in 1986, Saeedpour opened the Kurdish Heritage Foundation of America with a library in her Prospect Heights, Brooklyn brownstone. The museum, opened in 1988, was the first museum with a focus on the Kurds in the United States. The library currently contains more than 2,000 texts in Kurdish and other languages, as well as Kurdish artifacts, art, costumes and maps.\n\nFor 15 years Saeedpour published a comprehensive and insightful quarterly on the middle east called Kurdish Life and edited the \"International Journal of Kurdish Studies\" as part of the Kurdish Program she established together with anthropologists at Harvard University and Cultural Survival. Before the Gulf War, she organized a speaking tour for Kurdish politician Jalal Talabani, later to become President of Iraq.\n\nA resident of Fort Plain, New York, Saeedpour died at age 80 of a heart attack on May 30, 2010, in Schenectady, New York. She is survived by her five children and two grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "50937570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50937570", "title": "Voisine v. United States", "text": "Voisine v. United States\n\nVoisine v. United States, , was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that the Domestic Violence Offender Gun Ban in U.S. federal law extends to those convicted of reckless domestic violence. The court reached its judgment in a 6-2 majority.\n\nIn 2009, an anonymous caller in Maine notified officials that a bald eagle had been shot in Kingman. Investigating officers discovered the primary suspect, Stephen L. Voisine, was not legally permitted to possess a firearm. His prior domestic violence conviction barred him from possessing a gun, resulting from the Lautenberg Amendment signed into law in 1996. During Voisine's interrogation, he admitted to shooting the eagle. Subsequently, officials discovered his 28-year criminal record included 14 convictions for assault and domestic violence. \n\nVoisine joined William Armstrong III to argue that their domestic violence convictions should not have precluded them from owning guns in the first place. They requested the Supreme Court to consider whether the Lautenberg Amendment was consititutional in the light of the precedent of \"DC v. Heller\" that the Second Amendment protected an individual right to bear arms. However, the court refused to consider this question, limiting itself to the question of whether the defendants' convictions for \"reckless\" acts of violence (as opposed to intentional ones) fell within the meaning of the Lautenberg Amendment.\n\nDuring the hearing of this case, Clarence Thomas asked a question from the bench for the first time in 10 years.\n\nAssociate Justice Elena Kagan authored the 6-2 majority opinion. Justices Clarence Thomas and Sonia Sotomayor were the dissenters. The court held that Mens rea of recklessness was sufficient because the Lautenberg Amendment does not mention intentionality. The court used an analogy of a thrown plate to illustrate the meaning of recklessness in an abuse context.The dissent disagreed with the majority holding that the term \"reckless\" is too broad under the Maine statute to pass constitutional muster for prohibition of firearms. \n\n"}
{"id": "29558646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29558646", "title": "Waves of economic development", "text": "Waves of economic development\n\nEconomic development research has currently identified five phases, or \"waves\" of economic development practice. The differences between these waves are shaped by historical factors, the economic climate during historical periods, and leaders' response to these forces, which over time have created five strategies that differ from their predecessors. The five waves have all been designed to accomplish the same goal: to help entrepreneurs and businesses discover and expand markets for their services. Often these waves operate concurrently (thus, overlapping), or within a single economic development plan.\n\nFirst-wave economic development, or the Growth Promotion Approach, is characterized by a focus on industrial recruitment through financial incentives such as tax abatement and loans in order to lower costs associated with land, infrastructure, and labor. This method of business attraction was first used in the United States in the 1930s as a response to the Great Depression. The economic development activities in this phase are sometimes called \"smokestack-chasing.\"\n\nThis approach to economic development has its foundation in the \"boosterism\" of small towns in early North America. Typically in this wave, local economic developers focus attention on attracting one major employer to the region - be it a factory, mine, college, or prison. The first step in smokestack-chasing is to promote the location to the potential employer. Next, the economic developer seeks to improve the likelihood of the employer locating within the area by providing incentives (e.g., cheap land or labor, lax environmental regulations).\nDetractors of this form of economic development have labeled it haphazard and suggested that smokestack-chasing is \"likely to prove ineffective,\" while others have said the result of smokestack-chasing is likely mixed, with increases in short-term job growth and per capita income as well as political support.\n\nSecond-wave development strategies have their roots in the increase of worldwide competition, the descent of American manufacturing, and the critical evaluations of first-wave techniques of the late 1960s. These critiques labeled first-wave development as a zero-sum game between elites that instead of creating jobs merely transferred opportunities from one area to another at the benefit of \"land-based\" elites. The first use of second-wave strategies was in the late 1960s and early 70s. In second-wave economic development, practitioners began to use strategies to retain and expand existing firms. They also included a focus on small business development through entrepreneurial tools like loans and enterprise zones.\n\nThird-wave was first identified in the early 1990s, and is marked by a declining emphasis on industrial attraction and retention and an increasing focus on strategies such as public-private partnerships, establishing regional networks, developing industrial clusters, and increasing human capital.\n\nThird-wave economic development focuses on “broadening of the foundation for effective economic development.” It also stresses the importance of nurturing and advancing local and sectoral resources resulting in more complex economic development planning. States increasingly see themselves as key players in an evolving international economic competition – one that requires third-wave efforts to shift to an industry-wide perspective, and in many instances improves the socio-economic standing of its citizens through equity planning during the strategic economic development process.\n\nThis wave is also called sustainable economic development, and includes strategies that enhance environmental quality and self-sufficiency. In this context, sustainability refers to the process economic developers employ to determine a balanced approach to development that take into consideration \"a full range of economic, environmental, and social characteristics that together comprise 'community,'\" or development that conciliates historically conflicting stakes: promotion of the economy, equitable distribution of economic growth, and the preservation of the natural environment.\n\nThis wave has also been referred to as sustainable local economic development (SLED) because of the emphasis on local community. Although there are various definitions of sustainability or SLED, most definitions share the following principles: \n\nAn example of this approach applied to workforce training is the U.S. program Pathways out of Poverty. \n\nThe fifth-wave of economic development began in the 1990s with a two-fold interest in providing market solutions and regional strategies for development. The idea of a comparative advantage has been integral to the development of the fifth-wave. This wave has been marked by economic developers who work to emphasize unmet demand, function as a go-between with government to identify financing, and build partnerships for minority businesses between the public and private sector. The fifth-wave has led to concerns about displacement of impoverished populations due to gentrification.\n"}
{"id": "2514942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514942", "title": "Whitechapel Vigilance Committee", "text": "Whitechapel Vigilance Committee\n\nThe Whitechapel Vigilance Committee was a group of local volunteers who patrolled the streets of London's Whitechapel District during the period of the Whitechapel murders of 1888. The volunteers patrolled mainly at night in the search of the murderer. The committee was set up by local businessmen who were concerned that the killings were affecting commerce in the area. It was led by George Lusk, a local builder who was elected chairman during the committee's first meeting on 10 September 1888.\n\nOther committee members included Publican Joseph Aarons (treasurer), Mr. B. Harris (secretary), and Messrs. Barnett, Cohen, H. A. Harris, Hodgkins, Houghton, Isaacs, Jacobs, Laughton, Lindsay, Lord, Mitchell, Reeves, and Rogers. The \"Daily Telegraph\" reported on 5 October 1888 that the leading members of the committee were \"drawn principally from the trading class, and include a builder, a cigar-manufacturer, a tailor, a picture-frame maker, a licensed victualler, and 'an actor.'\" The latter was probably the entertainer Charles Reeves.\n\nAs chairman of the committee, Lusk's name appeared in the national newspapers and on posters in Whitechapel appealing for information concerning the identity of Jack the Ripper and complaining about the lack of a reward for such information from the government. Due to this publicity, Lusk received threatening letters through the post, allegedly from the murderer. Lusk is also mentioned in a letter dated 17 September 1888, reportedly discovered among archive materials in the late 20th century; however, most experts dismiss this as a modern hoax.\n\nOn 30 September 1888 the committee members wrote to the government under Lord Salisbury in an attempt to persuade them to offer a reward for information leading to the apprehension of the killer. When the Home Secretary Henry Matthews refused, the committee offered its own reward. The committee also employed two private detectives, Mr. Le Grand (or Grand) and Mr. J. H. Batchelor, to investigate the murders without the involvement of the local police.\n\nThe committee was unhappy with the level of protection that the community was receiving from the police, so it introduced its own system of local patrols, using hand-picked unemployed men to patrol the streets of the East End every evening from midnight to between four and five the next morning. Each of these men received a small wage from the Committee, and patrolled a particular beat, being armed with a police whistle, a pair of galoshes and a strong stick. The committee itself met each evening at nine in The Crown, and once the public house closed at 12.30 am the committee members would inspect and join the patrols. These patrols were shortly to be joined by those of the Working Men's Vigilance Committee.\n\nThe \"From Hell\" letter, which was sent with half of a human kidney, was posted to the committee's chairman George Lusk, who received it on 16 October 1888. Many scholars of the Jack the Ripper murders regard this letter as being the communication most likely to have been sent by the killer.\n\n"}
{"id": "30514995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30514995", "title": "Yale Model Government Europe", "text": "Yale Model Government Europe\n\nYale Model Government Europe (YMGE) is a constituent program of the Yale International Relations Association (YIRA) at Yale University. Founded in 2010 under the auspices of the YIRA Independent Initiatives Program, YMGE is now a registered civic organization in the Czech Republic. The inaugural conference, YMGE 2011, took place in November 2011 in Prague hosting delegates from around the world. The second annual YMGE in 2012 drew 300 students from 25 countries spanning four continents. From 2013 onwards, YMGE has been hosted in Budapest, Hungary, and has now risen to about 500 attending delegates each year.\n\nYMGE was created in effort to reimagine the Model United Nations conference in a way that would be both more educational and more dynamic for the delegates. It combines the best of American and European conferences to create a hybrid format. The conference comprises two types of sessions. In standard committee debate, delegates will be placed in a parliament, European government, or supranational body to discuss important issues pertaining to the future of Europe and the international community. In crisis sessions, all committees will have to table their individual debates to come together and solve an issue that threatens the integrity of the international system and European integration. In preparation for the 2013 conference, Secretariat members have revised YMGE's mission, vision and values.\n\nWith the development of the mission to provide an innovative, collaborative, and inspiring environment in Europe for high school students to engage in high-level world politics, YMGE has changed its slogan to \"Inspire, Collaborate, Innovate\" so that it accurately reflects the qualities that the conference embraces.\n\nThe conference emulates the proceedings of the European Union and its nations constituent parliaments and ministries. Amongst the eighteen committees that will be simulated at the conference, there are typically five parliaments: European, British, French, German, and the United States Senate. The final thirteen committees are a sampling of national cabinets from across the European Union: the nine most populous members and the Czech Republic.\n\nAs in the real world, these committees form the framework of an integrated Europe: when something happens in the world that affects one committee, it affects all committees. Every committee will be kept abreast of developments in each of the others; if a new policy passed by the Belgian cabinet has repercussions in Denmark, it will be up to the Danish ministers to react.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43972955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43972955", "title": "Yusuf Isa Halim", "text": "Yusuf Isa Halim\n\nYusuf Isa Halim (also transliterated in Romanian as Iusuf Isa Halim; ) (1894–1982) was a Dobrujan-born Tatar poet, schoolteacher and linguist known for authoring the first Romanian-Turkish dictionary.\n\nYusuf Isa was born in 1894 in Bílbíl, today officially known as Ciocârlia, a Nogai village situated in the Tatar countryside west of Mangalia, in Dobruja.\nHe graduated in 1915 from the Medrese of Medğidiye/Medgidia and he served as a schoolteacher in Malşuwa/Abrud, Kavarna, Pazarjik, Bogaz-Kóy (Cernavodă). In 1930 he published in Pazarjik, now Dobrich in Bulgaria, the first Romanian-Turkish dictionary.\n\n\n"}
