{"id": "52662447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52662447", "title": "Aboriginal Healing Foundation", "text": "Aboriginal Healing Foundation\n\nThe Aboriginal Healing Foundation was established in 1998 as an Indigenous managed, non-profit corporation dedicated to responding to the legacy of residential schools in Canada and the associated community health impacts. Funding for the Aboriginal Healing Foundation ceased in 2014.\n\nThe Aboriginal Healing Foundation was created on March 30, 1998. It was established following consultations with residential school survivors, the Assembly of First Nations, the Inuit Tapirisat of Canada, the Congress of Aboriginal Peoples, the Métis National Council, and the Native Women's Association of Canada. The mission of the Aboriginal Healing Foundation was to foster sustainable healing strategies in Indigenous communities in Canada that begin to address the impacts of the residential school system. The Foundation was initially provided with $350 million of funding from the Canadian government to care out this work with residential school survivors and Indigenous communities across Canada. The Foundation was designed as an organization to be responsible for the management of the Canada government's healing strategy related to residential schools. This strategy was part of the \"Gathering Strength, Canada's Aboriginal Action Plan\" established by the federal government on January 7, 1998. The original mandate of the Foundation was set to end on March 31, 2009.\n\nThe first chair of the Foundation was Georges Erasmus. The original board of directors was composed of 17 people, including Garnet Angeconeb, Charlene Belleau, Jerome Berthelette, Paul Chartrand, Angus Cockney, Ken Courchene, Wendy John, Richard Kistabish, Cerrielynn Lamouche, Ann Meekitjuk-Hanson, Teressa Nahanee, Dorris Peters, Viola Robinson, Grant Severight, Cindy Swanson, and Charles Weaselhead.\n\nIn 2005 the Aboriginal Healing Foundation was granted an additional $40 million through the 2005 federal budget.\n\nThe Indian Residential Schools Settlement Agreement of 2007 resulted in an additional $125 million of funding for the Healing Foundation and a prolonged mandate for the organization. Part of this funding was through the federal government. Additionally under the settlement agreement the 50 Roman Catholic Church entities associated with the settlement agreement were required to pay $29 million to the Aboriginal Healing Foundation which would be used for community healing programs. There has been debate about the Church's obligations to pay this amount and in 2013 the Canadian government pursued legal action for $1.6 million that the Catholic entities had not paid the Foundation.\n\nThroughout its operation the Foundation received $515 million from the Government of Canada. The Foundation also generated $537,146,681 in interest on this funding which was further used to fund community projects. In 2010 funding for the Aboriginal Healing Foundation was cut by Stephen Harper's conservative government. This cut in funding resulted in the closure of the Foundation in 2014. It also resulted in the discontinuation of funding to many community based healing initiatives and the closure of many healing programs regionally in Canada. Following the closure of the Aboriginal Healing Foundation its research library, records, and archives were donated to the Shingwauk Residential Schools Centre at Algoma University.\n\nThe first funding cycle of the Foundation operated in the form of a call for proposals that was sent out on December 3, 1998. The call was open to communities and survivor groups and focused on three thematic areas of programming: 1) Developing and Enhancing Aboriginal Capacity and Community Therapeutic Healing; 2) Healing Centers; 3) Restoring Balance, Honour, and History. This first batch of funding resulted in $19.4 million being awarded to projects across Canada. Funded community groups included: \nDuring its operation the Aboriginal Healing Foundation funded over 1,500 community based healing initiatives. The Foundation was subject to government funding audits and the Foundation also conducted community based program evaluations of the initiatives which received funding. The 2009 Indian and Northern Affairs Canada (INAC) evaluation of the Foundation programming reviewed the administration files of Foundation funded projects; conducted staff and subject expert interviews; and conducted community case studies which included interviews with healing project participants. The evaluation found the Foundation had been very successful in administering funding and contributing to community healing but that there was still much ongoing work in communities to be done. INAC also indicated that there was a strong need for community based healing initiatives to continue and recommended continued funding of the Foundation.\n\nIn addition to funding community based healing initiatives the Aboriginal Healing Foundation had a research mandate that was dedicated to creating a knowledge base relating to the long term community and health impacts of residential schools. This research mandate was outlined in the 1998 agreement that the Foundation signed with the Government of Canada and resulted in the Foundation seeking out researchers, scholars, and authors to write publications on residential schools, reconciliation, health, and other issues.\n\nThe first research director of the Aboriginal Healing Foundation was Gail Guthrie Valaskakis (2000-2007). Following the death of Valaskakis in 2007, Jonathan Dewar served as research director from 2007 to 2012. As a result of the work of research branch of the organization published numerous books, including:\nIn addition to the publication of books the Aboriginal Healing Foundation maintained a research library. Named after the first research director the Aboriginal Healing Foundation, the Gail Guthrie Valaskakis Memorial Resource Library is a special collections library focused on residential schools, healing, reconciliation, and Indigenous people. The library contains over 6,000 unique items including video, books, research materials, and project reports. The contents of the library was donated to the Shingwauk Residential Schools Centre in 2011 following the announcement of funding cuts to the Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30411187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30411187", "title": "Accountable care organization", "text": "Accountable care organization\n\nAn accountable care organization (ACO) is a healthcare organization that ties payments to quality metrics and the cost of care. ACOs in the United States are formed from a group of coordinated health-care practitioners. They use alternative payment models, normally, capitation. The organization is accountable to patients and third-party payers for the quality, appropriateness and efficiency of its services. According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, an ACO is \"an organization of health care practitioners that agrees to be accountable for the quality, cost, and overall care of Medicare beneficiaries who are enrolled in the traditional fee-for-service program who are assigned to it\".\n\nThe term \"Accountable Care Organization\" was first used by Elliott Fisher in 2006 during a discussion of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission. The term was included in the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. It resembles the definition of Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO) that emerged in the 1970s. Like an HMO, an ACO is \"an entity that will be 'held accountable' for providing comprehensive health services to a population.\" The model builds on the Medicare Physician Group Practice Demonstration and the Medicare Health Care Quality Demonstration, established by the 2003 Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act.\n\nMedicare approved 32 Pioneer accountable care organizations in December 2011; of which 19 remained active through 2015. As of April 2015, Medicare had approved 404 Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) ACOs, covering over 7.3 million beneficiaries in 49 states. For the 2014 reporting period, MSSP ACOs saved a combined $338 million, or $63 per beneficiary.\n\nMark McClellan, Elliott Fisher and others defined three core accountable care organization principles:\n\nThe model places financial responsibility on providers in hopes of improving care management and limiting unnecessary expenditures, while providing patients freedom to select their medical service providers. ACO's model of fostering clinical excellence while simultaneously controlling costs depends on its ability to \"incentivize hospitals, physicians, post-acute care facilities, and other providers involved to form linkages and facilitate coordination of care delivery\". By increasing care coordination, ACOs were proposed to reduce unnecessary medical care and improve health outcomes, reducing utilization of acute care services. According to CMS estimates, ACO implementation as described in ACA was estimated to lead to an estimated median savings of $470 million from 2012–2015.\n\nOn July 7, 2013 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced the results of the Pioneer ACO demonstration. According to them, costs for more than 669,000 beneficiaries served by Pioneer ACOs grew by 0.3 percent in 2012. Costs for others grew by 0.8 percent in the same period. CMS stated that 19 out of 32 pioneer ACOs shared savings with CMS. The Pioneer ACOs earned an estimated $76 million. Two Pioneer ACOs generated losses totaling an estimated $4 million. According to CMS the savings were due, in part, to reduction in hospital admissions and readmissions.\n\nPublic Health Law (PHL) Article 29-E requires the Department of Health (Department) to establish a program governing the approval of Accountable Care Organizations. PHL § 2999-p defines an Accountable Care Organization (ACO) as \"an organization of clinically integrated health care providers that work together to provide, manage, and coordinate health care (including primary care) for a defined population; with a mechanism for shared governance; the ability to negotiate, receive, and distribute payments; and accountability for the quality, cost, and delivery of health care to the ACO's patients\" and that has been issued a certificate of authority by the Department.\nThe Greater Buffalo United Accountable Care Organization was the 1st Medicaid and Commercial ACO in New York State. It received 1 of 10 NCQA ACO recognitions in the country. The model of integrated health care and high level results displayed by Greater Buffalo United Accountable Care Organization (GBUACO) have been set as the building ground for other ACOs in the state. \n\nThe US Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) proposed the initial set of guidelines for ACOs under the Medicare Shared Savings Program (PPACA Section 3201) on March 31, 2011. These guidelines stipulate the necessary steps that physician, hospital and other health care provider groups must complete to become an ACO. Section 3022 authorized CMS to create the MSSP begin signing ACO contracts by January 2012. ACA intended for MSSP to promote \"accountability for a patient population and coordinate[s] items and services under part A and B, and encourage[s] investment in infrastructure and redesigned care processes for high quality and efficient service delivery\". MSSP ensures that ACOs are a permanent option under Medicare. However, the specifics of ACO contracts are left to the discretion of the DHHS Secretary, which allows the ACO design to evolve.\n\nMSSP is a three-year program during which ACOs accept responsibility for the overall quality, cost and care of a defined group of Medicare Fee-For-Services (FFS) beneficiaries. Under the program, ACOs accept a minimum of 5,000 beneficiaries. The provider network is required to include sufficient primary care physicians to serve its enrollees. The ACO must define processes to promote evidence-based medicine and patient engagement, monitor and evaluate quality and cost measures, meet patient-centeredness criteria and coordinate care across the care continuum. Prior to applying to MSSP, an ACO must establish appropriate legal and governance structures, cooperative clinical and administrative systems and a shared savings distribution method. The ACO may not participate in other shared savings programs during the MSSP period. An ACO may include professionals (e.g., Doctors of Medicine (M.D.) or Doctors of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.), physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists) in group practice arrangements, networks of individual practices, partnerships or joint venture arrangements between hospitals and ACO professionals, hospitals employing ACO professionals, or other Medicare providers and suppliers\" as determined by the Secretary.\n\nACO's incentive payments are determined by comparing the organization's annual costs relative to CMS-established benchmarks. These benchmarks are based on an estimation of the total FFS expenditures associated with management of a beneficiary based on FFS payment in the absence of an ACO. CMS updates benchmarks by the projected absolute amount of growth in national per capita expenditures as well as by beneficiary characteristics. CMS establishes a minimum savings rate (MSR) that is calculated as a percentage of the benchmark (2%) that ACO savings must exceed in order to qualify for shared savings. The MSR accounts for normal variation in health care spending.\n\nWhile Medicare continued to offer FFS, ACOs can choose one of two payment models (one-sided or two-sided model) based on the degree of risk and potential savings they prefer. A one-sided model ACO shared savings for the first two years and savings or losses during the third year. The maximum sharing percentage for this model is 50%. In a two-sided model, ACOs shared in savings and losses for all three years. In both cases, ACO savings must exceed 2% in order to qualify for shared savings. The maximum sharing percentage for this model is 60%. In both models the shared loss cap is 5% in the first year, 7.5% in the second year, and 10% in the third year. Aspects regarding financial risk and shared savings were altered in the final regulations.\n\nAfter the initial March, 2011 regulations, CMS received feedback regarding streamlining the governance and reporting burdens and improving the potential financial return for ACOs willing to make the necessary, and often substantial, investments to improve care. On October 20, 2011, DHHS released the final MSSP regulations. The final regulations allowed for broader ACO governance structures, reduced the number of required quality measures and created more opportunities for savings while delaying risk bearing.\n\nProviders' financial incentives were increased. Under the one-sided model, providers have the opportunity to engage in ACOs and any savings above 2% without any financial risk throughout the three years. Under the two-sided model, providers will assume some financial risk but will be able to share in any savings that occur (no 2% benchmark before provider savings accrue). In addition, the quality measures required were reduced from 65 to 33, decreasing the monitoring that providers claimed were overwhelming. Community health centers and rural health clinics were allowed to lead ACOs.\n\nThe final regulations required ACOs to:\n\nCMS introduced the one-sided and two-sided payment model. The one-sided model offered shared savings for the first two years and added shared losses for the third year. In the two-sided model, ACOs shared savings and losses for all three years. Although the ACO assumed less financial risk in the one-sided model, ACOs have a maximum sharing rate of 50% in the one-sided model and a higher maximum sharing rate of 60% in the two-sided model, provided that the minimum threshold of 2% is reached. For both models, the shared loss cap increases each year. Initial feedback raised concerns regarding ACO's financial risk and possible cost savings. On October 20, 2011, DHHS released the final regulations that altered providers' financial incentives. Under the one-sided model, providers no longer assumed any financial risk throughout the three years and continued to share in cost savings above 2%. Under the two-sided model, providers assumed some financial risk, but share in any savings that occur (no 2% benchmark before provider savings accrue).\n\nCMS established five domains in which to evaluate ACO performance. The five domains are \"patient/caregiver experience, care coordination, patient safety, preventative health, and at-risk population/frail elderly health\".\n\nACOs are composed mostly of hospitals, physicians and other healthcare professionals. Depending on the ACO's level of integration and size, providers may include health departments, social security departments, safety net clinics and home care services. The various providers within an ACO work to provide coordinated care, align incentives and lower costs. ACOs are different from HMOs in that they allow providers much freedom in developing infrastructure. Any provider or provider organization may assume the leadership role.\n\nMedicare is the ACOs primary payer. Other payers include private insurances and employer-purchased insurance. Payers may play several roles in helping ACOs achieve higher quality care and lower expenditures. Payers may collaborate with one another to align incentives for ACOs and create financial incentives for providers to improve healthcare quality.\n\nACO's patient populations primarily consist of Medicare beneficiaries. In larger and more integrated ACOs, the patient population may also include homeless and uninsured people. Patients may play a role in the healthcare they receive by participating in decision-making processes.\n\nA range of ACO pilots took place uniting commercial insurers and state Medicaid programs (New Jersey, Vermont, Colorado, etc.) in advance of MSSP. The Brookings Institution and Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice run the ACO Learning Network, a member-driven network of over 80 members that provides tools for operating ACOs. Led by McClellan and Fisher, Brookings and Dartmouth worked since 2007 to foster ACO adoption. Premier runs an ACO Implementation and Readiness Collaborative. The American Medical Group Association (AMGA) runs an ACO Development Collaborative and Implementation Collaborative. In 2010, Blue Shield of California, Dignity Health and Hill Physicians Medical Group formed an ACO that covers 41,000 individuals in the California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS). In 2012, Hennepin County Medical Center partnered with NorthPoint Health and Wellness Center, Metropolitan Health Plan, and Hennepin County's Human Services and Public Health Department to form an ACO called Hennepin Health. By February 2013, Hennepin Health had enrolled 6,000 clients. Independent ACO-like initiatives emerged in Massachusetts, Illinois and California. The Brookings-Dartmouth ACO Learning Network published the ACO Toolkit, an implementation guide. The results were mixed: some organization's efforts yielded financial benefits while others experienced trouble balancing costs with savings.\n\nThe lack of specificity regarding how ACOs should be implemented, the American Hospital Association estimated that ACO formation would incur high startup costs and large annual expenses. ACOs risk violating antitrust laws if they are perceived to drive up costs through reducing competition and lower quality of care. To address the issue of antitrust violation, the U.S. Department of Justice offered a voluntary antitrust review process for ACOs.\n\nSignificant challenges confront primary-care physicians who join an ACO via a group practice, hospital-medical practice alignment, or another joint venture—such as an independent practice association (IPA). Physician groups need a robust Electronic Health Record (EHR) system that is capable of advanced reporting, disease registries and patient population care-management. Organizations that achieved their Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH) accreditation have mastered these functions and are thus further along the road to meeting ACO metrics.\n\nNHS England produced a contract in August 2017 for use by accountable care organisations, which are to be integrated care systems with full responsibility for all health and care services in their area. Accountable care organisations are contractually integrated, unlike accountable care systems. Problems with the application of value-added tax have prevented the creation of a single contract for health and social care services.\n\nFor more details of the development of accountable care organisations in the English NHS see Sustainability and transformation plan.\n\nAccountable care system\n\n"}
{"id": "48562164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48562164", "title": "Audrey Cahn", "text": "Audrey Cahn\n\nAudrey Josephine Cahn (17 October 1905 – 1 April 2008) was an Australian microbiologist and nutritionist.\n\nThe daughter of Professor William Alexander Osborne and Ethel Elizabeth Goodson, a medical practitioner and industrial hygienist, she was born Audrey Josephine Osborne in Melbourne and grew up on the campus of the University of Melbourne. She earned a Bachelor of Agricultural Science at the University in 1929 and, later, received a diploma in dietetics. She first worked as a microbiologist and food analyst for Kraft. In 1930, she married Leslie Cahn, an architect. She was employed as chief dietician at St Vincent's Hospital, at the Victorian Mental Hygiene Department and at the Royal Perth Hospital. During World War II, she was chief dietician at the Heidelberg Military Hospital. From 1947 to 1959, she was a dietetics lecturer at the University of Melbourne; from 1959 until 1968, when she retired, she was chief lecturer in nutrition and applied dietetics at the University.\n\nShe was a founding member of the Dietetics Association. Cahn was among the first experts to recommend reducing fat intake and substituting polyunsaturated fatty acids for saturated fats. She helped conduct a longitudinal study of child growth in Melbourne (1954–1971) which allowed the growth patterns of Australian children to be compared with children in Britain and the United States.\n\nCahn died in Canberra at the age of 102.\n\nAudrey Cahn Street in the Canberra suburb of Macgregor was named in her honour.\n"}
{"id": "37628538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37628538", "title": "Brno Reservoir", "text": "Brno Reservoir\n\nThe Brno Reservoir, previously known as the Kníničky Reservoir (, also known as \"Prýgl\" in Hantec slang) is a dam on the Svratka River right outside the city of Brno, Czech Republic. The construction of a levee on the 56th river kilometre of the Svratka River, together with flooding of a valley with the Kníničky village in, created the Brno Reservoir. The reservoir used to serve as a water reserve for Brno (water from the Vír Dam and from water wells in Březová nad Svitavou are used today), a place for recreation, and also a source of electric power. Administrator of the Brno Reservoir is a state-owned enterprise Povodí Moravy, s.p.\n\nThe idea of creating a dam on the Svratka River began at the beginning of the 20th century; however, its reconstruction was realized as late as 1936–1940. The main investor was the then Ministry of Public Works. Apart from Brno, it was also “the Moravian-Silesian Land” (a former territory), which took a financial interest of 25% in it.\n\nThe water storage begins under the weir at the Tejkalův Mill in Veverská Bítýška and spans nearly 10 km to the dyke on the border of the Brno-Bystrc and Brno-Kníničky districts. The flooded area covers 259 ha. The inactive storage reaches up to 7.6 million m³; the reserve space is 10.8 million m³. The concrete solid dam is 7.14 m wide in corona and 120 m long. It rises 23.5 m above the bottom at an altitude of 233.72 m.\n\nHydroelectricity uses one Kaplan turbine with an output of 2.88 MW (the installed output is 3.1 MW). In case of an island operation (that is, independently, disconnected from network system, such as in case of a breakdown of the electric power transmission), the turbine can be used to set a gas combustion turbine in the heating plant “Červený mlýn” in motion. A small hydro in Brno-Komín serves as a buffer tank.\n\nAt the end of the Second World War the retreating German Army placed mines in the nearby roads, a barrel with trinitrotoluene on the levee (the explosives were originally supposed to be placed into the levee piping, but it was sealed with concrete due to an order to protect it from a sabotage), and also placed some machine guns in the house of the levee guard Šikula. The guard, together with a few people hidden in the power plant room, warned a convoy of the Red Army, but Šikula was shot and wounded. There is a plaque of his at the levee today.\n\nBrno Reservoir is a popular recreational area with both locals and visitors. There are vast forests on both sides of the reservoir and thus there are opportunities not only for swimming and water sports, but also hiking and cycling. The Veveří Castle is a popular destination for tourists, too. It rises over a rock close to Veverská Bítýška. There is a bridge for cyclists and hikers over the dam close to the castle.\n\nThe dam can be visited all year round. Swimming in the water is safe. Blue-green bacteria very rarely occur on the southern tip of the dam only.\n\nThere is an important international firework competition Ignis Brunensis that is held annually at the end of May and beginning of June at the Brno Reservoir.\n\nAs a result of water pollution by communal sewage, the dam suffered from an extensive amount of blue-green bacteria for a long time. In 2010 the reservoir underwent a series of cleaning by chemical substances against the bacteria. These cleanings remain a subject of criticism and dispute, as some people claim they were nothing more than a pre-election trick, and that they will not bring any sufficient results in the long run. Since 2011, however, the water in the reservoir has been suitable for swimming.\n\nThe Brno Public Transportation Office operates boat rides on the reservoir during summer season. The boats run from Bystrc harbour (“Přístaviště”) to Veveří Castle and some even to Veverská Bítýška (depending on water level). There are operating several new boats – Lipsko, Utrecht, and Vídeň – which are named after Leipzig, Utrecht and Vienna (twin towns of Brno); and older ones called Brno, Dallas, and Veveří. The boats run every 45 minutes. Tickets can be purchased in the harbour at the ticket office.\n\nThe reservoir serves as a popular place for sports, too. Apart from canoeing, water skiing, and yachting, the dam is also used for rowing. Several rowing clubs operate there, such as ČVK Brno (Czech Rowing Club Brno) or TJ Lodní sporty Brno (TJ Water Sports Brno), with its most famous member Miroslava Knapková (the winner in rowing at the 2012 Olympics).\n\nSince 2011 there has been a dispute over a planned construction of a wakeboarding track.\n\n"}
{"id": "33064727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33064727", "title": "Bruce Dan", "text": "Bruce Dan\n\nBruce Bespalow Dan, M.D. (December 20, 1946 – September 6, 2011) was one of the American researchers with the Toxic Shock Syndrome Task Force who established the link between toxic shock syndrome and the use of tampons.\n\nDan died September 6, 2011 in Baltimore, Maryland from complications stemming from a bone marrow transplant received to cure leukemia. He is buried in Garden of Remembrance Cemetery, Clarksburg, Maryland.\n"}
{"id": "23484567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23484567", "title": "Capital punishment in Tonga", "text": "Capital punishment in Tonga\n\nCapital punishment is legal in Tonga, but has not been imposed since 1982. The country’s lack of executions puts it into the category of abolitionist in practice, where it retains the death penalty at law but has not imposed it in the last ten years. Tonga’s low rate of murder convictions form part of the reason for the lack of executions, as well as its courts’ apparent unwillingness to impose the penalty unless it appears absolutely necessary to do so.\n\nIn Tonga, the governing legislation regarding the death penalty is the Criminal Offences Act. This Act includes death in its list of punishments for criminal behaviour. Capital punishment may be imposed for the crimes of murder and treason. It may not be imposed on a pregnant woman. The ban on imposing the death penalty on a pregnant woman was added to the Criminal Offences Act via an amendment in 1939. If a woman convicted of murder or treason alleges that she is pregnant, the question is put to a jury as to whether they are satisfied she is indeed pregnant. The jury who decides this will, as a general rule, be the same jury who convicted her. A person under 15 years old cannot receive the death penalty for murder. However, due to the wording of the Act, it is unclear whether a person under this age may receive death as punishment for treason.\n\nIn order for the death penalty to be imposed, the King must assent. He must do so with the consent of the Privy Council of Tonga. The method of execution used is death by hanging. After the execution of the offender, a medical officer must supply a certificate of death. The requirement for a certificate of death was inserted by way of an amendment in 1958. The jury who convicted the offender, alongside a magistrate for the district in which the death sentence was executed, must hold an “inquest” into the body of the offender. The jury is to ascertain the identity of the deceased (that is, he or she is the offender they convicted). The jury must also ensure that the “sentence of death was duly executed on the offender,” meaning that in addition to a medical certificate, the jury must ascertain that the offender is dead. Those who have received the death sentence have their place of burial decided by the Tongan Privy Council – a place is chosen, and every offender executed will be buried in this place. The Tongan Privy Council is also able to make “regulations” regarding executions, for the purposes of “guarding against any abuse in the execution,” “for giving greater solemnity thereto,” and to publicise outside of the prison that an execution is taking place.\n\nThe last executions in Tonga took place in 1982, when Flatoti Sole, Livingi Sole and Fili Esau were hanged for murder. In the same year, the Tongan Parliament discussed abolishing the death penalty, but decided to retain it.\n\nIn 2004, the Tongan Legislative Assembly voted on a bill which proposed to introduce the death penalty for possession of illicit drugs. This bill was defeated by the Assembly by a vote of 10-7, indicating that the death penalty, if Tonga continues to retain it, will not spread to become an applicable sentence for other crimes. It is an indication that Tonga wishes to reserve the death penalty for the very serious crimes of murder and treason.\n\nThe issue of capital punishment was raised in 2005, when Tevita Siale Vola became the first person in Tonga to be convicted of murder in 24 years. However, Webster CJ did not impose the death penalty, on the basis that Vola's actions did not meet the threshold of \"one of the rarest of rare cases where the alternative option of life imprisonment is unquestionably foreclosed.\" Webster CJ did not make any moral judgment on the death penalty, explaining that it was \"a matter for the Government and Parliament\" to decide whether the death penalty should be retained in Tonga. The judgment in \"R v Vola\" serves as an indicator that Tonga does not impose the death penalty lightly.\n\nThe United Nations presented a moratorium on the death penalty in 2007. Tonga voted against this, and continued to do so in 2008, 2010, and 2012. However, more recently - in 2014 and 2016 - Tonga chose to abstain from voting on this issue. This indicates a shift in Tonga's thinking which is consistent with its abolitionist in practice status.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2006 Nuku‘alofa riots, where several men were suspected of murder, it appeared that these men may never face trial. The Australian government, which formed part of the investigative team for the riots, refused to hand over the autopsy reports of victims for fear of the death penalty being imposed on the suspects. This was a diplomatic move on Australia’s part, which sent a clear message to Tonga that it did not approve of its retention of the death penalty. However, this has not altered Tonga’s stance at law.\n\n2008 Cycle\n\nIn the course of its first Universal Periodic Review cycle in 2008, Tonga received a recommendation from Italy to abolish the death penalty. Tonga responded with a reminder that it had not imposed such a penalty since 1982, and that it welcomed “further opportunities for discussion and debate on this issue.” However, following this cycle, Tonga made no efforts towards abolition of the death penalty. Given that Tonga has ratified few international human rights treaties, it has few international obligations regarding the death penalty.\n\n2012 Cycle\n\nThe 2012 cycle brought similar recommendations, this time from a number of States. These included recommendations from Australia, Spain, and the United Kingdom to ratify the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which is aimed at the abolition of the death penalty. Tonga is neither a signatory to, nor has it ratified, the ICCPR. As such, Australia and the United Kingdom’s recommendations included a suggestion to ratify this Covenant as well. In its response, Tonga said that it had not considered ratifying the ICCPR. However, it referred to \"R v Vola\" as authority that the Tongan Courts are applying principles of the ICCPR despite its non-ratification status.\n\nDuring the 2012 UPR cycle, Italy and Slovakia each made separate recommendations regarding the imposition of the death penalty on people under 18. Italy suggested that Tonga “explicitly prohibit” this, with Slovakia recommending the “immediate” abolition of the death penalty for juvenile offenders. Italy specifically mentioned that this would be in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and a contemporary resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Tonga has ratified the CRC, which prohibits capital punishment for people aged under 18, regardless of the offence committed.\n\nTonga's response during this cycle brought to light its determination to retain the death penalty. Despite being an abolitionist in practice, Tonga is essentially a retentionist state as it refuses to abolish capital punishment.\n\nTonga joins 140 other countries which are abolitionist in law or practice. Of the Pacific Island countries, only Tonga and Papua New Guinea retain the death penalty.\n"}
{"id": "50400496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50400496", "title": "Cardiac aberrancy", "text": "Cardiac aberrancy\n\nCardiac aberrancy is a type of aberration of the electrical conduction system of the heart.\nAberration occurs when the action potential is conducting improperly, which can be due to:\n\n"}
{"id": "29113859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29113859", "title": "Chris Hughes (hypnotist)", "text": "Chris Hughes (hypnotist)\n\nChris Hughes (born 18 April 1975) is a British born TV hypnotist, hypnotherapist, speaker, and entertainer. He is known for attempting to set a world record for the biggest online hypnosis event. The Socialtrance live event was exclusively for users of Facebook and Twitter and attracted over 1,000,000 listeners from over 130 countries.\n\nSince this event he has become increasingly well known for his modern approach to hypnosis. He featured and appeared on BBC One, BBC Three, ITV , Sky Living, CNN Türk, BBC Radio 2, BBC Radio 5 Live and Talksport with Ian Collins. In the same year on the 31 May, over 13,500 people took part in the Socialtrance Stop Smoking Session for World No Tobacco Day once again for users of Facebook and Twitter.\n\nOn World Hypnotism Day, 4 January 2011, Socialtrance returned with a weight loss session for charity which over 30,000 people attended. The live 30 minute hypnosis webcast was designed to modify the eating habits of all participants. At the end of the session a weight loss MP3 was released on iTunes and all other major music sites with all proceeds from the download donated to Diabetes UK.\n\nIn September 2011 Hughes appeared on Sky Living's \"Slave to Food\" with Steps singer Claire Richards. During the first episode Hughes is seen hypnotising Claire and trying to help change her relationship with food.\n\nChris Hughes started life as a studio engineer at Chipping Norton Recording Studios working with the likes of Andy Bell from Oasis, Hurricane #1 to name a few. A few years later his interest in programing computers and web development led to his leaving the music world and becoming a full-time computer programmer. During this time he developed an interest in hypnosis, initially for self-development and helping friends with issues like weight control and smoking. He has now been practising as a full-time hypnotist and hypnotherapist for over 7 years and specialises in self-help therapies and hypnotherapy CDs.\n\nChris Hughes attended Bicester Community College in Oxfordshire and then the University of Salford, where he obtained a diploma in sound engineering and acoustics. He then went on to graduate from the Omni Hypnosis Training Centre in Florida and is currently certified with the National Guild of Hypnotists.\n\nChris Hughes has produced a range of self-help hypnosis based recordings including:\n\nChris Hughes learned hypnosis from Gerald F. Kein from the Omni Hypnosis Training Centre in Florida. Kein is an American hypnotist and the creator of Ultra-Height Hypnosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24967838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24967838", "title": "Donald H. Baucom", "text": "Donald H. Baucom\n\nDonald H. Baucom, Ph.D.(born 22 July 1949) is a clinical psychology faculty member at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill. He is recognized for founding the field of Cognitive-Behavioral Couples Therapy Baucom is also recognized as one of the top marital therapists and most prolific researchers in this field. Currently, Baucom's National Cancer Institute funded study, CanThrive, has the largest observationally coded sample of any couples study to date.\n\nBaucom lives in Chapel Hill, North Carolina where he is the Richard Lee Simpson Distinguished Professor of Psychology at UNC. He is a familiar face on campus, having received both his bachelor's degree and his Ph.D. from UNC. Baucom's son Brian is also a Clinical Psychologist. Brian worked in southern California where he received his Ph.D. from the University of California, Los Angeles. He currently works at the University of Utah.\n\nFor over thirty years, Donald H. Baucom has focused his research on the dynamics of intimate relationships and how various factors contribute to distress, as well as joy, in couples. As a strong proponent of the scientist-practitioner model he is committed to the development of empirically based effective interventions for partners in intimate relationships. In doing so, he has been a leader in the development of the theoretical, empirical, and clinical foundation of cognitive-behavioral therapy that is used for helping couples in distress. Baucom has spent his career observing the ways in which couples interact, and how these individual interaction styles can cause both distress and joy in relationships based on factors such as social support, health, and infidelity.\n\nSocial Support: Baucom has been interested in the ways by which social support styles contribute to both positive and negative functioning during the course of a relationship.\n\nHealth: Baucom has studied the ways in which physiological/psychological health can become stressors in a dyad that can contribute to distress. For example, he has developed intervention studies based on the effects of anorexia, cancer, smoking, and arthritis with regards to couples functioning.\n\nInfidelity: This area is of particular interest to Baucom due to the severity of the direct distress it causes to the relationship. He has collaborated with his colleagues to develop a self-help book for partners experiencing infidelity, and is in the process of creating a training manual to guide practitioners in the aid of couples dealing with infidelity.\n\nObsessive-compulsive disorder: Baucom has collaborated with experts on obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) to develop a couple-based cognitive-behavioral treatment approach for couples in which one partner has this anxiety-related disorder. The treatment involves primarily bringing the non-OCD partner into therapy and training him or her to be a coach to help with exposure and response prevention for the partner with OCD. The couple also learns effective communication strategies and techniques for reducing accommodation and avoidance behaviors together.\n\nCurrently, Baucom is working on a large-scale treatment study funded by the National Cancer Institute called CanThrive. This is a couple-based intervention focused on partnerships in which the female has breast cancer. This study observes and measures various aspects of communicated social support between both partners, and is interested in finding possible relationships between differences in social support and treatment outcomes for breast cancer. This study has the largest observationally coded sample of any couples study to date, and is based at both the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Duke University. Additionally, he is collaborating with colleagues conducting a similar study in Germany.\n\nBooks\n\nAcademic Journals\n\n"}
{"id": "9188222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9188222", "title": "Donjon de Houdan", "text": "Donjon de Houdan\n\nThe Donjon de Houdan (Houdan Keep) is a medieval fortified tower in the \"commune\" of Houdan in the Yvelines \"département\" of France.\n\nConstructed around 1120-1137 by Amaury III of Montfort, the keep or donjon is the only vestige of the medieval castle of Houdan. It is a massive tower isolated from the town in the west, and is now used as a water tower.\n\nThe tower is cylindrical, 16 metres in diameter and 25 metres in height. It is flanked by four turrets 4.8 metres in diameter each at cardinal points on the central cylinder. The walls of the tower have an average thickness of three metres.\n\nThe tower consists of three levels: a ground floor, and two higher floors. The interior floors and roof have disappeared. An access door was located 6 metres above the ground level and once gave access to the mezzanine floor. Another entrance was located in one of the turrets.\n\nThe donjon is thought to have been one of the earliest experiments in improving flanking fire from the battlements (reduction of \"dead ground\"), and a transitional form between the rectangular keeps of the 11th to 12th centuries, and widespread adoption of cylindrical keeps in the 13th century. Other contemporary examples can be seen at Étampes and Provins.\n\n\nThis tower has never been taken during its history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45379640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45379640", "title": "Durian Tunggal Reservoir", "text": "Durian Tunggal Reservoir\n\nThe Durian Tunggal Reservoir () is a reservoir in Alor Gajah District, Melaka, Malaysia. It is one of the main source of water supply to residents in Melaka.\n\nIn early 1991, the reservoir dried up, affecting more than 600,000 people. The problem continued until early 1992. In 1993, to overcome this problem, the Malacca State Government signed a water supply agreement with Johor State Government.\n\nThe reservoir features camping area, jogging paths, merry-go-round, children's playground and refreshment kiosk.\n\nVarious activities can be done at the reservoir, such as boating, fishing or windsurfing.\n\n"}
{"id": "52419459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52419459", "title": "Dyslexia support in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Dyslexia support in the Republic of Ireland\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, people with dyslexia, especially school children, can benefit from a range of support techniques including additional one-to-one literacy support from specialist teachers, computer tools with text-to-speech, spelling correction and word prediction; coloured glasses, and many other methods. The techniques chosen for an individual vary according to their particular conditions. People in Northern Ireland are aided by the service available from Dyslexia support in the United Kingdom.\n\nDepending on the level of impairment, students may be offered support from a Special Needs Assistant.\n\nIrish is a compulsory subject in general. Students with dyslexia can claim an exemption in order to focus on English language study.\n\nStudents who require support for state exams (scribes or word processors) can apply under the Reasonable Accommodation in the Certificate Examinations (Race) scheme. Up to 9,000 students required this support in 2015.\n\nStudents with disabilities are given additional support and access routes to colleges and universities under the scheme Disability Access Route to Education (DARE) scheme. Dyslexia is recognised as specific learning difficulty (SLD) under the scheme. Some institutions reserve places for these students which might end up being offered to candidates with lower points than the standard CAO cut-off.\n"}
{"id": "9800360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9800360", "title": "Edward H. Shortliffe", "text": "Edward H. Shortliffe\n\nEdward (\"Ted\") Hance Shortliffe (born 1947) is a Canadian-born American biomedical informatician, physician, and computer scientist. Shortliffe is a pioneer in the use of artificial intelligence in medicine. He was the principal developer of the clinical expert system MYCIN, one of the first rule-based artificial intelligence expert systems, which obtained clinical data interactively from a physician user and was used to diagnose and recommend treatment for severe infections. While never used in practice (because it preceded the era of local-area networking and could not be integrated with patient records and physician workflow), its performance was shown to be comparable to and sometimes more accurate than that of Stanford infectious disease faculty. This spurred the development of a wide range of activity in the development of rule-based expert systems, knowledge representation, belief nets and other areas, and its design greatly influenced the subsequent development of computing in medicine.\n\nHe is also regarded as a founder of the field of biomedical informatics, and in 2006 received one of its highest honors, the Morris F. Collen Award given by the American College of Medical Informatics.\n\nHe has held administrative positions in academic medicine, research and national bodies including the Institute of Medicine, American College of Physicians, the National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health, and National Library of Medicine (NLM), and been influential in the development of medicine, computing and biomedical informatics nationally and internationally. His interests include the broad range of issues related to integrated medical decision-support systems and their implementation, biomedical informatics and medical education and training, and the Internet in medicine.\n\nIn March 2007, he became founding dean of the University of Arizona's College of Medicine - Phoenix campus. He stepped down from this position in May 2008 and in January 2009 transferred his primary academic appointment to Arizona State University where he became professor of biomedical informatics. He maintained a secondary appointment as professor of basic medical sciences and of medicine at the University of Arizona College of Medicine (Phoenix Campus). In November 2009 he transferred his academic home to a part-time appointment as professor at the School of Biomedical Informatics, University of Texas Health Science Center at the Texas Medical Center in Houston, where he lived until November 2011. Since that time he has returned to New York City, where he continues as an adjunct professor of biomedical informatics at Columbia University.\n\nIn July 2009, Shortliffe assumed a position as president and chief executive officer of the American Medical Informatics Association, an organization that he helped to form between 1988 and 1990 when he was President of the Symposium on Computer Applications in Medical Care. In late 2011 he announced his intention to step down from this position in 2012.\n\nShortliffe grew up in Edmonton, Alberta, until his family moved to Connecticut when he was 6. He attended the Loomis School in Connecticut (now Loomis Chaffee School) and later Gresham's School in the United Kingdom. His father was a physician and hospital administrator; his mother, an English teacher. He has one brother and one sister.\n\nAs an undergraduate at Harvard, he started working in the computer laboratory of G. Octo Barnett at Massachusetts General Hospital and realized that he could have a career spanning both medicine and computing.\n\nAfter receiving an AB in applied mathematics \"magna cum laude\" from Harvard College in 1970, he received an M.D. (1976) and Ph.D. in Medical Information Systems (1975) from Stanford University, with a dissertation on the MYCIN system, for which he also won the 1976 Grace Murray Hopper Award for outstanding computer scientists under the age of 30. He completed internal medicine house-staff training from 1976-1979 at Massachusetts General Hospital and Stanford Hospital. In 1979 he joined the Stanford faculty in internal medicine and computer science, where he directed the Stanford University Medical EXpertimental computer resource (SUMEX) and subsequently the Center for Advanced Medical Informatics at Stanford (CAMIS), continuing his work on expert systems, including ONCOCIN (an oncology decision support program), T-HELPER, and other projects in the Stanford Heuristic Programming Project. He also simultaneously served as chief of general internal medicine and associate chair of medicine for primary care, and was principal investigator of the InterMed Collaboratory, which developed the science of computable guidelines for medical decision support.\n\nIn 1980 he founded one of the earliest formal degree programs in biomedical informatics at Stanford University, emphasizing a rigorous and experimentalist approach. From 2003-2007 he served on the Board of Directors of Medco Health Solutions, a large pharmacy benefits manager headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey.\n\nIn 2000 he moved to Columbia University as chair of the department of biomedical informatics, deputy vice president (Columbia University Medical Center), senior associate dean for strategic information resources (College of Physicians and Surgeons), professor of medicine, professor of computer science, and director of medical informatics services for the New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He continued work on decision support guidelines including the development of the Guideline Interchange Format (GLIF3).\n\nFrom March 2007 until May 2008 he served as the founding dean of the Phoenix campus of the University of Arizona's College of Medicine and from November 2009 to October 2011 he served as professor in the School of Biomedical Informatics at the University of Texas Health Sciences Center in Houston, Texas. He has served as president and chief executive officer of the American Medical Informatics Association from 2009-2012 and continues to hold adjunct faculty appointments in biomedical informatics at Columbia University and Arizona State University.\n\nAt age 39, Shortliffe was elected to the Institute of Medicine of the United States National Academy of Sciences (where he has served on the IOM executive council). He is also an elected member or fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence, American Society for Clinical Investigation, the Association of American Physicians, and the American Clinical and Climatological Association.\n\nHe is a founding member of the American Medical Informatics Association and was one of five founding fellows of the American College of Medical Informatics. He is a master of the American College of Physicians and was a member of that organization's Board of Regents from 1996-2002. He is editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Biomedical Informatics\" and serves on the editorial boards for several other biomedical informatics publications.\n\nHe has served on the oversight committee for the Division of Engineering and Physical Sciences (National Academy of Sciences) and the Biomedical Informatics Expert Panel (National Center for Research Resources at the National Institutes of Health). He also served on the National Committee for Vital and Health Statistics (NCVHS) and on the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee. Earlier he served on the Computer Science and Telecommunications Board (National Research Council), the Biomedical Library Review Committee (National Library of Medicine), and was recipient of a research career development award from the latter agency.\n\nHe is the author of more than 300 publications including seven books.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12337960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12337960", "title": "Effective safety training", "text": "Effective safety training\n\nEffective safety training is an unofficial phrase used to describe the training materials designed to teach occupational safety and health standards developed by the United States government labor organization, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). OSHA has produced many standards and regulations that affect employers and employees in the United States. United States employers have a legal responsibility to educate employees on all workplace safety standards and the hazards that their employees may face while on the job, and providing effective safety training meets that responsibility.\n\nEmployers must have an overall safety program including relative site specific safety information where applicable. The safety training program should cover topics such as:\n\nEmployers must document all training. Creating a training matrix will help keep track of who has been trained, when they were trained, the training topic, and when it is time for refresher training. Employees must also sign an official sign-in sheet provided by the employer that can serve as proof that employees received proper training. The sign in sheet must have a broad description of what is being covered in the training. Tests or quizzes on the presented material can help gauge employee understanding of the material and highlight topics that need to be reviewed.\n\nThe non-English speaking population is consistently growing in many industries and it is important that employers provide bilingual training for those workers, as OSHA requires that all employees be properly trained.\n\nMost employees display attitudes of disinterest and dread at the thought of attending a safety training, which can leave the trainer feeling frustrated and unappreciated. It is the trainer's duty to make safety training fun and educational, which will help the trainees to retain the information, enjoy the course, and apply the learning to their work and lives.\n\nAn effective training program can reduce the number of injuries and deaths, property damage, legal liability, illnesses, workers' compensation claims, and missed time from work. An effective safety training program can also help a trainer keep the required OSHA-mandated safety training courses organized and up-to-date.\nSafety training classes help establish a safety culture in which employees themselves help promote proper safety procedures while on the job. It is important that new employees be properly trained and embrace the importance of workplace safety as it is easy for seasoned workers to negatively influence the new hires. That negative influence however, can be purged with the establishment of new, hands-on, innovative effective safety training which will ultimately lead to an effective safety culture. A 1998 NIOSH study concluded that the role of training in developing and maintaining effective hazard control activities is a proven and successful method of intervention.\n\nOSHA issued voluntary training guidelines in 1992. These guidelines serve as a model for trainers to use in developing, organizing, evaluating, and editing their safety training programs. It is important for trainers to tailor the OSHA guidelines to their specific work site so that the training is relevant to the specific working conditions and not just a long generalized informational session.\n\nMany standards promulgated by OSHA explicitly require the employer to train employees in the safety and health aspects of their jobs. Other OSHA standards make it the employer's responsibility to limit certain job assignments to employees who are \"certified,\" \"competent,\" or \"qualified\"—meaning that they have had special previous training, in or out of the workplace. The term \"designated\" personnel means selected or assigned by the employer or the employer's representative as being qualified to perform specific duties. These requirements reflect OSHA's belief that training is an essential part of every employer's safety and health program for protecting workers from injuries and illnesses.\n\nOSHA's training guidelines follow a model that consists of:\n\nYou first have to determine if a situation can be solved using training. Training, or retraining as the case may be, could be required by an OSHA standard. Training is an effective solution to problems such as employee lack of understanding, unfamiliarity with equipment, incorrect execution of a task, lack of attention, or lack of motivation. Sometimes, however, the situation cannot be mitigated through the use of training and other methods, such as the establishment of engineering controls, may be needed to ensure worker safety.\n\nA job safety analysis and/or a job hazard analysis should be conducted with every employee so that it is understood what is needed to do the job safely and what hazards are associated with the job. A safety trainer may observe the worker in his/her environment to adequately assess the worker's training needs. Certain employees may need extra training due to the hazards associated with their particular job. These employees should be trained not only on\nhow to perform their job safely but also on how to operate within a hazardous\nenvironment.\n\nIt is important for the Trainer to identify necessary training material. It is equally important that the trainer identify training material that is not needed to avoid unnecessary training and frustration from their trainees.\n\nAt the beginning of every safety training session the trainer should clearly iterate the objectives of the class. The objectives should be delivered using action oriented words like: the employee ...\"will be able to demonstrate\" or \"will know when to\"... which will help the audience understand what he/she should know by the end of the class or what to information to assimilate during the class. Clearly established objectives also help focus the evaluation process on those skill sets and knowledge requirements necessary to perform the job safely.\n\nTraining should be hands-on and simulate the job as closely as possible. Trainers can use instructional aids such as charts, manuals, PowerPoint presentations, and films. Trainers can also include role-playing, live demonstrations, and round-table group discussions to stimulate employee participation. Games like \"what's wrong with this picture\" (it is usually good to use pictures of situations found at their specific location)\" or \"safety jeopardy\" can be useful ways to make the training fun yet educational.\n\nTrainers should provide employees with an overview of the material to be learned and relate the training to the employees' experiences. Employers should also reinforce what the employees have learned by summarizing the program's objectives and key points of training. At the beginning of the training program, the trainer should show the employees why the material is important and relevant to their jobs. Employees are more likely to pay attention and apply what they've learned if they know the benefits of the training.\n\nEvaluation will help employers or supervisors determine the amount of learning achieved and whether an employee's performance has improved on the job. Among the methods of evaluating training are: \nAs evaluations are reviewed, it may be evident the training was not adequate and that the employees did not reach the expected level of knowledge and skill. As the program is evaluated, the trainer should ask: \n\nComputers and videos can be a great addition to a company's safety training program. As stand alone resources, they may not be adequate in meeting OSHA's training requirements as they are not site specific. Computer-based training can help meet the following training challenges\n\nThere is no more important places to regard the positive impact the OSHA regulations than in the healthcare and clinical settings. OSHA has been revolutionary in the medical field due to its ability to prevent the spread of diseases. Every clinical facility on US land, civilian or military is governed by OSHA's directives. To remain in accordance to the Federal regulations enacted by OSHA healthcare administrators must maintain an OSHA safety program and train their employees on an annual basis. Some of the topics that employees must be trained on include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4753359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4753359", "title": "Epidemiology of autism", "text": "Epidemiology of autism\n\nThe epidemiology of autism is the study of the incidence and distribution of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). A 2012 review of global prevalence estimates of autism spectrum disorders found a median of 62 cases per 10,000 people. There is a lack of evidence from low- and middle-income countries though.\n\nASD averages a 4.3:1 male-to-female ratio. The number of children known to have autism has increased dramatically since the 1980s, at least partly due to changes in diagnostic practice; it is unclear whether prevalence has actually increased; and as-yet-unidentified environmental risk factors cannot be ruled out.\nThe risk of autism is associated with several prenatal factors, including advanced paternal age and diabetes in the mother during pregnancy. ASD is associated with several genetic disorders and with epilepsy.\n\nAutism is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder. Many causes have been proposed, but its theory of causation is still questionable and ultimately unknown. Autism is believed to be largely inherited, although the genetics of autism are complex and it is unclear which genes are responsible. Little evidence exists to support associations with specific environmental exposures.\n\nIn rare cases, autism is strongly associated with agents that cause birth defects. Other proposed causes, such as childhood vaccines, are controversial and the vaccine hypotheses lack any convincing scientific evidence.\nAndrew Wakefield published a small study in 1998 in the United Kingdom suggesting a causal link between autism and the trivalent MMR vaccine. After data included in the report was shown to be deliberately falsified, the paper was retracted, and Wakefield's medical license revoked.\n\nAlthough incidence rates measure autism risk directly, most epidemiological studies report other frequency measures, typically point or period prevalence, or sometimes cumulative incidence. Attention is focused mostly on whether prevalence is increasing with time.\n\nEpidemiology defines several measures of the frequency of occurrence of a disease or condition:\n\nWhen studying how diseases are caused, incidence rates are the most appropriate measure of disease frequency as they assess risk directly. However, incidence can be difficult to measure with rarer chronic diseases such as autism. In autism epidemiology, point or period prevalence is more useful than incidence, as the disorder starts long before it is diagnosed, and the gap between initiation and diagnosis is influenced by many factors unrelated to risk. Research focuses mostly on whether point or period prevalence is increasing with time; cumulative incidence is sometimes used in studies of birth cohorts.\n\nThe three basic approaches used to estimate prevalence differ in cost and in quality of results. The simplest and cheapest method is to count known autism cases from sources such as schools and clinics, and divide by the population. This approach is likely to underestimate prevalence because it does not count children who have not been diagnosed yet, and it is likely to generate skewed statistics because some children have better access to treatment.\n\nThe second method improves on the first by having investigators examine student or patient records looking for probable cases, to catch cases that have not been identified yet. The third method, which is arguably the best, screens a large sample of an entire community to identify possible cases, and then evaluates each possible case in more detail with standard diagnostic procedures. This last method typically produces the most reliable, and the highest, prevalence estimates.\n\nEstimates of the prevalence of autism vary widely depending on diagnostic criteria, age of children screened, and geographical location. Most recent reviews tend to estimate a prevalence of 1–2 per 1,000 for autism and close to 6 per 1,000 for ASD;\nPDD-NOS is the vast majority of ASD, Asperger syndrome is about 0.3 per 1,000 and the atypical forms childhood disintegrative disorder and Rett syndrome are much rarer.\n\nA 2006 study of nearly 57,000 British nine- and ten-year-olds reported a prevalence of 3.89 per 1,000 for autism and 11.61 per 1,000 for ASD; these higher figures could be associated with broadening diagnostic criteria. Studies based on more detailed information, such as direct observation rather than examination of medical records, identify higher prevalence; this suggests that published figures may underestimate ASD's true prevalence. A 2009 study of the children in Cambridgeshire, England used different methods to measure prevalence, and estimated that 40% of ASD cases go undiagnosed, with the two least-biased estimates of true prevalence being 11.3 and 15.7 per 1,000.\n\nA 2009 U.S. study based on 2006 data estimated the prevalence of ASD in 8-year-old children to be 9.0 per 1,000 (approximate range 8.6–9.3). A 2009 report based on the 2007 Adult Psychiatric Morbidity Survey by the National Health Service determined that the prevalence of ASD in adults was approximately 1% of the population, with a higher prevalence in males and no significant variation between age groups; these results suggest that prevalence of ASD among adults is similar to that in children and rates of autism are not increasing.\n\nAttention has been focused on whether the prevalence of autism is increasing with time. Earlier prevalence estimates were lower, centering at about 0.5 per 1,000 for autism during the 1960s and 1970s and about 1 per 1,000 in the 1980s, as opposed to today's 1–2 per 1000.\nThe number of reported cases of autism increased dramatically in the 1990s and early 2000s, prompting investigations into several potential reasons:\n\nThe reported increase is largely attributable to changes in diagnostic practices, referral patterns, availability of services, age at diagnosis, and public awareness. A widely cited 2002 pilot study concluded that the observed increase in autism in California cannot be explained by changes in diagnostic criteria, but a 2006 analysis found that special education data poorly measured prevalence because so many cases were undiagnosed, and that the 1994–2003 U.S. increase was associated with declines in other diagnostic categories, indicating that diagnostic substitution had occurred.\n\nA 2007 study that modeled autism incidence found that broadened diagnostic criteria, diagnosis at a younger age, and improved efficiency of case ascertainment, can produce an increase in the frequency of autism ranging up to 29-fold depending on the frequency measure, suggesting that methodological factors may explain the observed increases in autism over time. A small 2008 study found that a significant number (40%) of people diagnosed with pragmatic language impairment as children in previous decades would now be given a diagnosis as autism. A study of all Danish children born in 1994–99 found that children born later were more likely to be diagnosed at a younger age, supporting the argument that apparent increases in autism prevalence were at least partly due to decreases in the age of diagnosis.\n\nA 2009 study of California data found that the reported incidence of autism rose 7- to 8-fold from the early 1990s to 2007, and that changes in diagnostic criteria, inclusion of milder cases, and earlier age of diagnosis probably explain only a 4.25-fold increase; the study did not quantify the effects of wider awareness of autism, increased funding, and expanding treatment options resulting in parents' greater motivation to seek services. Another 2009 California study found that the reported increases are unlikely to be explained by changes in how qualifying condition codes for autism were recorded.\n\nSeveral environmental risk factors have been proposed to support the hypothesis that the actual frequency of autism has increased. These include certain foods, infectious disease, pesticides. There is overwhelming scientific evidence against the MMR hypothesis and no convincing evidence for the thiomersal (or Thimerosal) hypothesis, so these types of risk factors have to be ruled out. Although it is unknown whether autism's frequency has increased, any such increase would suggest directing more attention and funding toward changing environmental factors instead of continuing to focus on genetics.\n\nThe prevalence of autism in Africa is unknown.\n\nThe rate of autism diagnoses in Canada was 1 in 450 in 2003. However, preliminary results of an epidemiological study conducted at Montreal Children's Hospital in the 200–2004 school year found a prevalence rate of 0.68% (or 1 per 147).\n\nA 2001 review of the medical research conducted by the Public Health Agency of Canada concluded that there was no link between MMR vaccine and either inflammatory bowel disease or autism. The review noted, \"An increase in cases of autism was noted by year of birth from 1979 to 1992; however, no incremental increase in cases was observed after the introduction of MMR vaccination.\" After the introduction of MMR, \"A time trend analysis found no correlation between prevalence of MMR vaccination and the incidence of autism in each birth cohort from 1988 to 1993.\"\n\nCDC's most recent estimate is that 1 out of every 59 children, or 16.8 per 1,000, have some form of ASD as of 2014.\nThe number of diagnosed cases of autism grew dramatically in the U.S. in the 1990s and early 2000s. For the 2006 surveillance year, identified ASD cases were an estimated 9.0 per 1000 children aged 8 years (95% confidence interval [CI] = 8.6–9.3). These numbers measure what is sometimes called \"administrative prevalence\", that is, the number of known cases per unit of population, as opposed to the true number of cases. This prevalence estimate rose 57% (95% CI 27%–95%) from 2002 to 2006.\n\nThe number of new cases of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in Caucasian boys is roughly 50% higher than found in Hispanic children, and approximately 30% more likely to occur than in Non-Hispanic white children in the United States.\n\nA further study in 2006 concluded that the apparent rise in administrative prevalence was the result of diagnostic substitution, mostly for findings of mental retardation and learning disabilities. \"Many of the children now being counted in the autism category would probably have been counted in the mental retardation or learning disabilities categories if they were being labeled 10 years ago instead of today,\" said researcher Paul Shattuck of the Waisman Center at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, in a statement.\n\nA population-based study in Olmsted County, Minnesota county found that the cumulative incidence of autism grew eightfold from the 1980–83 period to the 1995–97 period. The increase occurred after the introduction of broader, more-precise diagnostic criteria, increased service availability, and increased awareness of autism. During the same period, the reported number of autism cases grew 22-fold in the same location, suggesting that counts reported by clinics or schools provide misleading estimates of the true incidence of autism.\n\nA 2008 study in Venezuela reported a prevalence of 1.1 per 1000 for autism and 1.7 per 1000 for ASD.\n\nA journal reports that the median prevalence of ASD among 2–6-year-old children who are reported in China from 2000 upwards was 10.3/10,000.\n\nA 2008 Hong Kong study reported an ASD incidence rate similar to those reported in Australia and North America, and lower than Europeans. It also reported a prevalence of 1.68 per 1,000 for children under 15 years.\n\nA 2005 study of a part of Yokohama with a stable population of about 300,000 reported a cumulative incidence to age 7 years of 48 cases of ASD per 10,000 children in 1989, and 86 in 1990. After the vaccination rate of the triple MMR vaccine dropped to near zero and was replaced with MR and M vaccine, the incidence rate grew to 97 and 161 cases per 10,000 children born in 1993 and 1994, respectively, indicating that the combined MMR vaccine did not cause autism.\nA 2004 Japanese autism association reported that about 360.000 people have typical kanner type autism.\n\nA 2009 study reported that the annual incidence rate of Israeli children with a diagnosis of ASD receiving disability benefits rose from zero in 1982–1984 to 190 per million in 2004. It was not known whether these figures reflected true increases or other factors such as changes in diagnostic measures.\n\nStudies of autism frequency have been particularly rare in the Middle East. One rough estimate is that the prevalence of autism in Saudi Arabia is 18 per 10,000, slightly higher than the 13 per 10,000 reported in developed countries. \n\nIn 1992, thiomersal-containing vaccines were removed in Denmark. A study at Aarhus University indicated that the rates of autism had stabilized and may be in decline after the removal of thiomersal from all vaccines. One co-author of the study stated \"the incidence and prevalence are still decreasing in 2001\". In 2003 Pediatrics magazine claimed that same study indicated that the cumulative incidence of autism in Denmark was stable until 1990, but then began to increase after the removal of thiomersal containing vaccines in 1992. The other doctor (Dr. Poul Thorsen) involved in the study omitted the 2001 data indicating dropping rates of autism. Thorsen was later charged with fraud and embezzlement while working with Aarhus University.\n\nFrance made autism the national focus for the year 2012 and the Health Ministry now evaluates the rate of autism to be 67 per 10000 (1 out of 150).\n\nEric Fombonne made some studies in the years 1992 and 1997. He found a prevalence of 16 per 10.000 for the global pervasive developmental disorder (PDD).\nThe INSERM found a prevalence of 27 per 10,000 for the ASD and a prevalence of 9 per 10,000 for the early infantile autism in 2003. Those figures are considered as underrated as the WHO gives figures between 30 and 60 per 10,000. The French Minister of Health gives a prevalence of 4.9 per 10,000 on its website but it counts only early infantile autism.\n\nA 2008 study in Germany found that inpatient admission rates for children with ASD increased 30% from 2000 to 2005, with the largest rise between 2000 and 2001 and a decline between 2001 and 2003. Inpatient rates for all mental disorders also rose for ages up to 15 years, so that the ratio of ASD to all admissions rose from 1.3% to 1.4%.\n\nA 2009 study in Norway reported prevalence rates for ASD ranging from 0.21% to 0.87%, depending on assessment method and assumptions about non-response, suggesting that methodological factors explain large variances in prevalence rates in different studies.\n\nThe incidence and changes in incidence with time are unclear in the United Kingdom.\nThe reported autism incidence in the UK rose starting before the first introduction of the MMR vaccine in 1989. However, a perceived link between the two arising from the results of a fraudulent scientific study has caused considerable controversy, despite being subsequently disproved. A 2004 study found that the reported incidence of pervasive developmental disorders in a general practice research database in England and Wales grew steadily during 1988–2001 from 0.11 to 2.98 per 10,000 person-years, and concluded that much of this increase may be due to changes in diagnostic practice.\n\nAs late as the mid-1970s there was little evidence of a genetic role in autism; evidence from genetic epidemiology studies now suggests that it is one of the most heritable of all psychiatric conditions. The first studies of twins estimated heritability to be more than 90%; in other words, that genetics explains more than 90% of autism cases. When only one identical twin is autistic, the other often has learning or social disabilities. For adult siblings, the risk of having one or more features of the broader autism phenotype might be as high as 30%, much higher than the risk in controls. About 10–15% of autism cases have an identifiable Mendelian (single-gene) condition, chromosome abnormality, or other genetic syndrome, and ASD is associated with several genetic disorders.\n\nSince heritability is less than 100% and symptoms vary markedly among identical twins with autism, environmental factors are most likely a significant cause as well. If some of the risk is due to gene-environment interaction the 90% heritability estimate may be too high; new twin data and models with structural genetic variation are needed.\n\nGenetic linkage analysis has been inconclusive; many association analyses have had inadequate power. Studies have examined more than 100 candidate genes; many genes must be examined because more than a third of genes are expressed in the brain and there are few clues on which are relevant to autism.\n\nAutism is associated with several prenatal factors, including advanced age in either parent, diabetes, bleeding and use of psychiatric drugs in the mother during pregnancy. Autism was found to be indirectly linked to prepregnancy obesity and low weight mothers. It is not known whether mutations that arise spontaneously in autism and other neuropsychiatric disorders come mainly from the mother or the father, or whether the mutations are associated with parental age. However, recent studies have identified advancing paternal age as a significant risk factor for ASD. Increased risk of autism has also been linked to rapid \"catch-up\" growth for children born to mothers who had unhealthy weight at conception.\n\nA large 2008 population study of Swedish parents of children with autism found that the parents were more likely to have been hospitalized for a mental disorder, that schizophrenia was more common among the mothers and fathers, and that depression and personality disorders were more common among the mothers.\n\nIt is not known how many siblings of autistic individuals are themselves autistic. Several studies based on clinical samples have given quite different estimates, and these clinical samples differ in important ways from samples taken from the general community.\n\nAutism has also been shown to cluster in urban neighborhoods of high socioeconomic status. One study from California found a three to fourfold increased risk of autism in a small 30 by 40 km region centered on West Hollywood, Los Angeles.\n\nBoys have a higher chance for being diagnosed with autism than girls. The ASD sex ratio averages 4.3:1 and is greatly modified by cognitive impairment: it may be close to 2:1 with mental retardation and more than 5.5:1 without. Recent studies have found no association with socioeconomic status, and have reported inconsistent results about associations with race or ethnicity.\n\nRORA deficiency may explain some of the difference in frequency between males and females. RORA protein levels are higher in the brains of typically developing females compared to typically developing males, providing females with a buffer against RORA deficiency. This is known as the Female protective effect. RORA deficiency has previously been proposed as one factor that may make males more vulnerable to autism .\n\nAutism is associated with several other conditions:\n"}
{"id": "26824820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26824820", "title": "Grinspan's syndrome", "text": "Grinspan's syndrome\n\nGrinspan syndrome is a syndrome characterized by presence of the triad: essential hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and oral lichen planus.\n\nOral lichen planus is thought to be a result of the drugs used for treatment of hypertension and diabetes mellitus but this is not confirmed.\n"}
{"id": "8625779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8625779", "title": "Guidelines International Network", "text": "Guidelines International Network\n\nThe Guidelines International Network (G-I-N) is an international scientific association of organisations and individuals interested and involved in development and application of evidence-based guidelines and health care information. The network supports evidence-based health care and improved health outcomes by reducing inappropriate variation throughout the world.\n\nThe Network's membership consists of approximately 100 organisations working in the field of medical guidelines and other types of healthcare guidance as well as of around 150 individual experts (February 2017). The members represent about 46 countries from all continents.\nThe list of members is available on the G-I-N website\nBeing constituted as a Scottish Guarantee Company under Company Number SC243691, the Network is recognised as a Scottish Charity under Scottish Charity Number SC034047.\n\nBased upon the work of the international AGREE Collaboration for the quality of clinical practice guidelines, an organised network for organisations and experts working in the field of evidence-based guidelines was proposed in early 2002 at the first international guideline conference in Berlin, Germany. Guideline experts called for international standardized guideline methods, and information exchange in this field. The proposal was endorsed by health care agencies from all parts of the world such as AHRQ (USA), CBO (NL) German Agency for Quality in Medicine, NICE (UK), SIGN (UK), and NZGG (NZ).\nAgainst this background the Guidelines International Network G-I-N was founded in November 2002 in Paris with Günter Ollenschläger as founding chairman.\n\nThe goal of the network is to lead, strengthen and support collaboration and work within the guideline development, adaptation and implementation community.\nG-I-N's main aims are:\n\nG-I-N has an International Guideline Library, the world's largest guideline library, containing regularly updated guidelines and publications of the G-I-N membership. As of February 2017 more than 6,000 documents were available.\n\nThe Network organises the annual G-I-N Conference around the globe:\n2003 Edinburgh (UK), 2004 Wellington (NZ), 2005 Lyon (FR), 2007 Toronto (CA), 2008 Helsinki (FI), 2009 Lisbon (PT), 2010 Chicago (US), 2011 Seoul (KR), 2012 Berlin (DE). 2013 San Francisco (US)). 2014 Melbourne (AU), 2015 Amsterdam (NL), 2016 Philadelphia (US)\n\nG-I-N Projects are developed in several working groups focussing on the following topics, amongst many others:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35936711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35936711", "title": "Gustavo Zubieta-Castillo", "text": "Gustavo Zubieta-Castillo\n\nProfessor Dr. Gustavo Zubieta-Castillo MD (May 20, 1926 – September 17, 2015) was a Bolivian physician, high altitude medicine expert, physiologist, army surgeon, writer, painter, who has been named as the \"Mountain Guru\" at the St. John's Medical College in Bangalore, India.\n\nHe has worked on high altitude physiology. Being born at 3800m in Oruro, Bolivia, and then studying medicine at the Universidad Mayor de San Andres in the city of La Paz, at 3513 m above sea level, all his work has focused on initially high altitude physiology and later evolved to high altitude pathology. He proposed new concepts and understanding of what was known as Chronic mountain sickness. This pathology characterized by an increase of red blood cells, cyanosis, ventilatory and respiratory alterations with pulmonary hypertension and hypertrophy of the right ventricle seen at high altitude, above the normal values for such altitude, was originally affirmed to be due to \"loss of adaptation\". He changed this interpretation, as he strongly stood for \"“The organic systems of human beings and all other species tend to adapt to any environmental change and circumstance within an optimal period of time, and never tend towards regression which would inevitably lead to death”\". This concept has indeed changed the way high altitude diseases are interpreted.\n\nOn July 9, 1970, Zubieta-Castillo was the founder of the first high altitude clinic in the world located in La Paz, Bolivia High Altitude Pathology Institute. One of his theories is the proposal that man has the extraordinary capability to adapt to live in the hypoxic environment of the highest point on the planet Earth: the summit of Mt. Everest.\n\n"}
{"id": "16990730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16990730", "title": "Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland", "text": "Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland\n\nThe Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland (HSENI) is a Northern Ireland non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for the Economy. It is responsible for the encouragement, regulation and enforcement of occupational health and safety in Northern Ireland. Its functions are similar to those of the Health and Safety Executive in the rest of the United Kingdom.\n\nIt was founded as the Health and Safety Agency for Northern Ireland when the provisions of the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 were extended to the province in 1978. It was renamed Executive in 1998.\n\nThe Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland, along with the Health and Safety Executive have both been involved as partners of the Occupational Safety & Health Consultants Register (OSHCR), a consultants register set up by UK government to list registered health and safety consultants for businesses and employers.\n"}
{"id": "51889662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51889662", "title": "Healthcare in Nicaragua", "text": "Healthcare in Nicaragua\n\nHealthcare in Nicaragua involves the collaboration of private and public institutions. Although Nicaragua's health outcomes have improved over the past few decades with the efficient utilization of resources relative to other Central American nations, it still confronts challenges responding to its population's diverse healthcare needs.\n\nThe Nicaraguan government guarantees universal free health care for its citizens. However, limitations of current delivery models and unequal distribution of resources and medical personnel contribute to the persistent lack of quality care in more remote areas of Nicaragua, especially amongst rural communities in the Central and Atlantic region. To respond to the dynamic needs of localities, the government has adopted a decentralized model that emphasizes community-based preventative and primary medical care.\n\nBefore the 1979 Sandinista Revolution, the Nicaraguan health system consisted of four distinct agencies and independent health ministry offices in each province. There was little coordination amongst these institutions, and this system was fraught with provincial differences in salaries, administrative procedures, and more. During this 1970s period, Nicaragua had one of the worst life expectancies at birth and one of the highest levels of infant mortality in the regional area. Both of these measures have improved markedly up to 2016, average life expectancy now reaching 74.5 years.\n\nThere also existed an unequal distribution of health resources. Only 25% of the total health budget was controlled by the Ministry of Health, and 90% of the services went to 10% of the population. Even though only a quarter of the population lived in the capital city of Managua, health professionals were disproportionately concentrated there. In 1972, half of all Nicaraguan doctors and more than two-thirds of nurses worked in Managua.\n\nAfter the 1979 Revolution, the new government established a new Unified National Health System that instated the Nicaraguan Ministry of Health (MINSA) at the head of health services throughout the nation. This system also integrated the Nicaraguan Social Security Institute (INSS) under MINSA's direction in order to make it financially feasible to provide a single national health service available to all Nicaraguan citizens, regardless of socioeconomic background. With the combination of these institutions, the INSS hospitals and clinics, previously only accessible to insured employees, then opened their doors to the larger population.\n\nIn 1984, in order to improve existing institutional infrastructure, 10% of the national budget was allocated to the health sector. From 1979 to 1984, the government also successfully pushed for the construction of 309 new primary healthcare facilities and the training of over 3,000 health professionals. Following the wake of the Revolution, MINSA promoted several prevention-based health efforts, one of the earliest being its Brigadista program. This Brigadista program involved the training of community health advocates, the majority of whom were chosen from the Sandinista Youth Organization, who were selected to be trained and transported to serve in underserved rural regions.\n\nSince the 1990s the Nicaraguan government has been changing towards more market-oriented economic policies that have affected the health sector. This healthcare shift has involved increased private sector activity as well as the decentralization of public services.\n\nThe current Nicaraguan public health system follows a decentralized model. This model consists of three distinct administrative levels, each associated with different health services. Levels include (1) the central level, (2) the SILAIS (Local Systems of Comprehensive Care) level, and (3) the municipal level. The Nicaragua Ministry of Health (MINSA) directs the central level and is committed to ensuring universal access to free health services.\n\nThis decentralized model involves annual contracts between MINSA and local hospitals and health centers that are negotiated to set upcoming specific actions, goals, and funding allocation. The contract system is incentive based, and the amount of federal funding decided upon involves the consideration of institutional performance. As part of the public sector, the revenue generated from hospitals, healthcare centers, and SILAIS are consolidated and calculated by the Ministry of Finance before redistribution of certain percentages to the original institutions.\n\nWith the intention of maintaining decentralization while expanding citizens' access to quality healthcare, the Nicaraguan government implemented a structural framework model entitled the Conceptual Model of Family and Community Health (MOSAFC) in 2007. As determined by Nicaragua's General Law of Health (No. 423) the overall aim of MOSAFC is to establish integrated networks of public and private service providers that work together to harbor the responsibility of addressing the health needs of specific populations. The overarching goals of this framework were to offer more efficient delivery of health services, improve patient satisfaction with services, and advance the financial protection of citizen's health.\n\nThere is an unequal distribution of healthcare workers throughout Nicaragua's different provinces. Most healthcare workers are located on the Pacific coast region, while there is a huge need for primary health professionals in the cities of Jinotega and Matagalpa, as well as along the Caribbean coast. In the year 2000, while Managua contained 20% of the population, the city continued to harbor around half of the country's entire health care professionals.\n\nThis trend can be explained by overall low financial incentives for health care personnel, especially for work in remote areas. The average monthly salary for a general practitioner in Nicaragua under MINSA is $544 USD while that of Honduras is $1,332 USD and that of Panama is $1,025 USD. Additionally, although 52% of Nicaraguan doctors are specialized in training, this specialization level fails to meet widespread community needs for primary care. In order to improve the healthcare access of those living in more isolated areas, the public medical schools in Nicaragua require their graduates to perform two years of social service in high-need settings, after which they can opt to work in private institutions. This requirement aligns with MINSA's objective to encourage these graduates to work for the public health sector.\n\nAmongst Nicaraguan doctors, there persists a lack of gender diversity. Nicaraguan women are underrepresented in the field of medicine, and within the healthcare field have an unemployment rate that is 3.5 times higher than that of men.\n\nNicaragua's adolescent fertility rate is one of the highest in Latin America. Around half of women in Nicaragua give birth before the age of 20. Approximately one quarter of all the births in the country involve adolescent mothers.\n\nLack of use of contraceptives contributes to this high pregnancy rate. Out of all sexually active female adolescents, only 7% utilize condoms and only 47% use any modern method of contraception. A highly tradition-based culture, a conservative government, and the Catholic Church's domination have been observed to negatively impact contraceptive use. Educational promotion of contraception is generally only conducted by nongovernmental agencies or women's groups, and it is popular belief among many that various forms of contraceptive methods are detrimental to one's health.\n\nNicaragua has one of the highest cervical cancer incidence rates in the world and the second highest morbidity rate in Latin America, second only to Haiti. Although screenings are provided through their national public health system, only 35% of women have had a Papanicolaou (PAP) smear test by the age of 35 years. A study showed that even when screenings services are adequate, patient follow-up and treatment after abnormal results is of poor quality. A low-cost early detection alternative to PAP smears used in Nicaragua involves visual inspection of cancerous cervical legions with acetic acid.\n\n"}
{"id": "24923135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24923135", "title": "Illini 4000 for Cancer", "text": "Illini 4000 for Cancer\n\nThe Illini 4000 is a non-profit organization raising funds for cancer research and patient support services, as well as spreading awareness through annual cross-country bike rides.\n\nThe Illini 4000 began as an idea between two University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign students, Jonathan Schlesinger and Anish Thakkar. While both studying abroad in Spring 2006, Anish, who had been involved with early cancer detection research, thought that there was not enough available funding for cancer research. Schlesinger, who had been affected by cancer by a family member, also wanted to contribute to research funding. Upon returning to campus in Fall 2006, the students combined their love for cycling with their determination in the fight against cancer and the Illini 4000 was born. The organization began as a registered student organization at the university but soon became a 501(c)(3) Non-profit organization.\n\nEvery summer since the Illini 4000 was born, the team sends 20-25 students on a cross country bicycle trip. Each group of riders is named the Bike America Team and completes the journey beginning in late May and finishing in early August. Each day, the team rides between 40–110 miles with a support vehicle carrying their supplies. In the past, the Bike America teams have been able to visit the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington D.C., the UIC Medical Center in Chicago, Illinois, and the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.\n\nIn summer 2007, the first Bike America Team was on the organizations's first cross-country trip. The trip started in New York City and ended in San Diego, California with 18 people riding. In 2008, the 20 rider bike team rode from New York City to Seattle, Washington. In 2009, the 23 riders rode from New York City to Portland, Oregon. For the 2010 ride, 28 riders biked from New York City and finished in San Francisco, California. From 2011 through 2014, the Bike America Team rode from New York City to San Francisco, with the 2012 Team riding through Washington D.C.\n\nTo date, the Illini 4000 has looked primarily to their riders in regards to securing funds with which to both function as an organization and donate to various beneficiaries. \nEach rider of the Illini 4000 Bike America Team is required to fundraise $4,000. \n\nCorporate sponsors include Trek, Champaign Cycle, That’s Rentertainment, Isostatic, OILUBE, NetTrust, AMS Mechanical Systems, Rushville State Bank, Grove Dental Associates, St. Martin Bank & Trust Co., and others.\n\nThe Illini 4000 have chosen a variety of organizations including the American Cancer Society, Camp Kesem, the Lance Armstrong Foundation, the Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation, the Ishan Gala Foundation, The Andrew McDonough B+ Foundation, TLC Camp, Prairie Dragon Paddlers, and University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign researcher Dr. Brendan Harley, to help us achieve our mission.\n\nIn 2015, Illini 4000 was able to donate $100,000 thanks to the fundraising efforts of the 2015 Trek Bike America Team. Of the $100,000, $46,000 went towards funding patient support services and the remaining $54,000 went to funding cancer research. The Beneficiaries donated to in 2015 include American Cancer Society, Camp Kesem, B+ Foundation, and Prairie Dragon Paddlers for patient support services; and Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation, and University of Illinois for cancer research.\n\nIn 2018, Illini 4000 surpassed $1,000,000 in fundraising efforts since its beginnings. The 2018 Bike America team consists of 23 riders who will bike from New York City, New York to San Francisco, California from May 18 to August 3, 2018.\n\nIn recognition of the funding from Illini 4000 in 2015 and the funding over the past several years totaling $214,000, Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation has named one of their Fellowship awards after Illini 4000. The first Illini 4000 Fellow was Rand Miller, who was studying how cancer evades current therapies.\n\nDuring the summer 2007 ride, documentary filmmaker Zachary Herrmann followed the Bike America team across the United States as he created the documentary \"What People Do\". The film, which is now freely available for viewing online, was made for the production company \"Films That Move\" which is entirely made of volunteer filmmakers from across the country. The filming took place over the course of 4 months, in 7 states and gathered 35 hours of footage.\n\n\"What People Do\" was the first film created by the production company. The goal of \"Films That Move\" is to make films that generate emotion while inspiring the audience to take action for a social cause. They chose to follow the Illini 4000 based upon the politically divided state that the country was in at the time. While on the journey, the filmmakers documented the generosity the team found during their nightly stay-overs as well as stories from the riders and their hosts. The goal of these stories is to show that regardless of the condition of the country, there are still issues that can unite the population.\n\n"}
{"id": "21685428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21685428", "title": "Indian Institute of Health Management Research", "text": "Indian Institute of Health Management Research\n\nThe Indian Institute of Health Management Research (or IIHMR) is an institute for Health and Hospital Management. Established in 1984 in Jaipur, IIHMR is the first of its kind in India, with attention focused on health systems research and management. The Institute's campus occupies fourteen acres located near Sanganer Airport.\n\nThe facilities at the Institute are of international standards. The main building has an academic block, a computer center, a library and documentation center, a conference hall, an auditorium, an MDP center, seminar rooms, tutorial rooms, and lecture halls. There are three hostel buildings which can accommodate as many as 187 students. A number of guest houses are located on the campus. The residential complex has flats on the main campus for staff, in addition to eleven flats a little away from the campus. The complex includes a jogging track, tennis and badminton courts, and a mini playground for children.\n"}
{"id": "90304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90304", "title": "Ixtlilton", "text": "Ixtlilton\n\nIxtlilton ( ,\"The Little Black One\") in aztec mythology is the god of medicine and healing, and therefore was often alluded to as the brother of Macuilxochitl, the god of well-being or good luck. Ixtlilton was a gentle god, who emanated from an obsidian mask which brought darkness and peaceful sleep to children in their beds at night.\n"}
{"id": "29521178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29521178", "title": "Journal of Perinatal &amp; Neonatal Nursing", "text": "Journal of Perinatal &amp; Neonatal Nursing\n\nThe Journal of Perinatal & Neonatal Nursing is a peer-reviewed nursing journal of perinatal nursing and neonatal nursing. Each issue is presented in a topic-oriented format. It is popularly known as the \"Pink Journal\".\n\nThe journal is covered by CINAHL. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 0.937.\n"}
{"id": "6720070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6720070", "title": "Kremasta (lake)", "text": "Kremasta (lake)\n\nLake Kremasta () is the largest artificial lake in Greece. The construction of Kremasta Dam was completed in 1965 concentrating waters from four rivers: Acheloos, Agrafiotis, Tavropos and Trikeriotis. The water that is accumulated in the artificial lake is about . It prevents flooding of the Acheloos, and supplies electricity to the national grid during peaks of demand. The power station at the dam is the biggest hydroelectric plant in Greece (rated power: 437.2 MW). It was constructed in 1966 and is owned by the Public Power Corporation of Greece (DEH A.E.). At the time of its construction, it was the largest earth-filled hydroelectric project in Europe.\n\nThe lake is located on the borders of Aetolia-Acarnania and Evrytania. There are two bridges over the lake (at Tatarna and Episkopi). The water of the lake penetrates along the beds of the rivers mentioned above, and forms a lot of fiords and small islands. The municipalities with shores on the lake are Agrinio and Amfilochia in Aetolia-Acarnania, and Agrafa and Karpenisi in Evrytania.\n\n"}
{"id": "24603521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24603521", "title": "Krisana Kraisintu", "text": "Krisana Kraisintu\n\nKrisana Kraisintu (, , ; born February 21, 1952) is a Thai professor, Thai pharmacist, pharmaceutical consultant in the local production and increased access to life-saving medicines in Africa, in particular, in the domains of malaria and HIV/AIDS-related drug production.\n\nShe was formerly Director of Research and Development Institute, Government Pharmaceutical Organization (GPO), Ministry of Public Health, Thailand. Between 2002–2007 Kraisintu worked as a Pharmaceutical Consultant for Action Medeor, a German aid organization which is a non-profit organization dealing with local production and distribution of medicines in Africa.\n\nCurrently, Kraisintu is the Honorary Dean of Faculty of Oriental Medicines, Rangsit University and a visiting Professor at the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ubon Ratchathani University, Thailand. She is also a visiting Professor of Oriental Medicines at Harbin Institute of Technology, China.\n\nIn 2009, she was given the Ramon Magsaysay Award.\n\n\"Krisana conducted research on anti-retroviral drugs without much support and successfully formulated a generic version of AZT (zidovudine), which treats HIV and reduces the risk of mother-to-child transmission, in 1995. The product was introduced to the market at a fraction of the cost of the branded product. Her achievement raised the pharmaceutical and health profile of Thailand as the first developing country to manufacture generic HIV/AIDS drugs.\"\n\nKraisintu received her bachelor's degree in Pharmacy from Chiangmai University, Thailand in 1975; M.Sc. in Pharmaceutical Analysis from Strathclyde University, U.K. in 1978; and Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical Chemistry from University of Bath, U.K. in 1981. She was also awarded an Honorary D.Sc. (Doctor of Science) from the University of Bath in 2009.\n\nFor the past 28 years, she has worked in the pharmaceutical industry in various roles of quality assurance, manufacturing, research and development and business development for the discovery, development and commercialization of chemical and natural pharmaceutical products.\n\n"}
{"id": "4850372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4850372", "title": "Mental Health Parity Act", "text": "Mental Health Parity Act\n\nThe Mental Health Parity Act (MHPA) is legislation signed into United States law on September 26, 1996 that requires annual or lifetime dollar limits on mental health benefits to be no lower than any such dollar limits for medical and surgical benefits offered by a group health plan or health insurance issuer offering coverage in connection with a group health plan. Prior to MHPA and similar legislation, insurers were not required to cover mental health care and so access to treatment was limited, underscoring the importance of the act.\n\nThe MHPA was largely superseded by the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act (MHPAEA), which the 110th United States Congress passed as rider legislation on the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), signed into law by President George W. Bush in October 2008. Notably, the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act extended the reach of MHPAEA provisions to many health insurance plans outside its previous scope.\n\nThe MHPA applies to group health plans for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 1998. The original sunset provision provided that the parity requirements would not apply to benefits for services furnished on or after September 30, 2001. It was extended six times, with the final extension running through December 31, 2007. Insurers promptly were able to \"circumvent\" the consumer protections arguably intended in the legislation by imposing maximum numbers of provider visits and/or caps on the number of days an insurer would cover for inpatient psychiatric hospitalizations. In essence, the law had little or no effect on mental health coverage by group insurance plans. The rider on TARP prohibits all group health plans that offer mental health coverage from imposing any greater limit on co-pays, co-insurance, numbers of visits, and/or number of days covered for hospital stays due to mental health conditions. The rider legislation was the culmination of a long campaign fought by Sen. Paul Wellstone (D-MN) and his successors to enact mental health parity at the federal level. The new law's requirements will be phased in over several years. Still unsure is whether non-\"biologically-based\" mental illnesses such as PTSD and eating disorders are mandated to be covered by the new law.\n\nGenerally the act required parity of mental health benefits with medical and surgical benefits with respect to the application of aggregate lifetime and annual dollar limits under a group health plan. It provided that employers retain discretion regarding the extent and scope of mental health benefits offered to workers and their families, including cost sharing, limits on numbers of visits or days of coverage, and requirements relating to medical necessity.\n\nThe law also contained three exemptions:\n\nImmediately after MHPA was enacted, insurers and employers began finding ways to circumvent the legislation. Larger emphasis on cost sharing, primarily implemented through higher copayments, deductibles, and out-of-pocket maximums, was one strategy used by insurers. In addition, limits and caps on the number of visits with a care provider or number of days in a hospital visit were imposed. MHPA also did not provide benefits for substance abuse and dependency issues. Lastly, MHPA contained a sunset provision that meant that the law would go out of effect after a certain date. The original sunset date was extended six times, through 2007.\n\nThe Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act (MHPAEA) was enacted in October 2008 and took effect on 1 January 2010. The main purpose of MHPAEA was to fill the loopholes left by the MHPA. The act requires health insurers as well as group health plans to guarantee that financial requirements on benefits, including co-pays, deductibles, and out-of-pocket maximums, and limitations on treatment benefits such as caps on visits with a provider or days in a hospital visit, for mental health or substance use disorders are not more restrictive than the insurer's requirements and restrictions for medical and surgical benefits. MHPAEA only applies to insurance plans for public and private sector employers with over 50 employees and health insurance issuers who sell coverage to employers with more than 50 employees.\nSimilar to MHPA, MHPAEA requires parity in terms of total annual dollar limits, as well as aggregate lifetime benefits. It is important to note however, that MHPAEA does not explicitly require that any insurance plan offer benefits for mental health and substance abuse disorders. Instead, it enacts parity rules for plans that choose to offer both medical and surgical benefits as well as mental health and substance abuse disorder benefits. This includes out-of-network benefits. If plans choose to offer both types of benefits, MHPAEA mandates that insurers define and make available specific criteria for medical necessity when it comes to mental health and substance abuse disorder benefits. In addition, MHPAEA also requires that insurers provide specific information and reasons in the event that reimbursement or payment for treatment is denied.\n\nOne main challenge to the implementation of MHPAEA is what is known as \"carve-out\" health benefits. This refers to mental health benefits that are purchased by employers separately from medical benefits. The \"carve-out\" vendor may be separate from any number of other vendors providing medical benefits. The law would require the \"carve-out\" vendor to ensure parity with medical benefits provided by a separate vendor or vendors. In addition, the legislation itself did not create a mechanism to regularly monitor or evaluate the enforcement or implementation of the act.\n\n"}
{"id": "55726744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55726744", "title": "Michael Cooper (economist)", "text": "Michael Cooper (economist)\n\nMichael H. (Mike) Cooper OBE (1938 – 2017) was a British economist and one of the first to develop the field of health economics in the 1960s. He died 15th July 2017 at his home in Martinborough.\n\nCooper took a position as senior chair in economics at the University of Otago in 1976, where he established the university's first health economics class. He worked at the university for 18 years, becoming pro vice-chancellor. He chaired the Otago Area Health Board. In 1994, he was awarded an OBE.\n\n"}
{"id": "8241111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8241111", "title": "Microsurgical endodontics", "text": "Microsurgical endodontics\n\nMicrosurgical endodontics is that aspect of endodontics which evolved after the introduction of the Surgical Operating Microscope (SOM) to endodontics in the early 1990s. The recent addition of SOM's to endodontic therapy can allow better visualization and management of the surgical field by endodontists during endodontic procedures through magnification and greatly improved high intensity lighting. SOM's typically magnify in the 4X to 25X range. The other commonly used magnification aide, through lens eyeglass mounted surgical telescopes, provide 2.5X to 4.5X magnification. Surgical operating microscopes have a steep learning curve and require training, as well as patience and practice to master.\n\nSome studies have demonstrated higher success rates in surgical procedures using SOM's when compared to direct vision. However, use of the surgical operating microscope routinely for endodontic procedures is not considered the standard of care in endodontics.\n\n"}
{"id": "16569996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16569996", "title": "National Association for Children of Addiction (United States)", "text": "National Association for Children of Addiction (United States)\n\nThe National Association for Children of Addiction (NACoA) was formed in February 1983 in California, United States by 20 professionals concerned about the needs of family members of alcoholics. NACoA is a membership and affiliate organization, and is incorporated as a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) organization.\n\nNACoA's mission is \"to eliminate the adverse impact of alcohol and drug use on children and families\". The founders believed that by coming together and building consensus, core issues could be identified and services needed by children of addiction (COAs) could be delivered and disseminated. In 1992, NACoA relocated its national office to the suburbs of Washington, D.C. to develop a stronger presence in the national policy and program arenas. NACoA partners with other national non-profit organizations, private-sector groups and federal agencies for policy and program development in substance abuse research, prevention and treatment to expand and enhance delivery of information for and about COAs.\n\nNACoA programs are designed to educate professionals in primary health care, the faith communities, social work, education and the judicial communities, providing them with tools which will facilitate their ability to intervene and support children of alcoholic or drug-addicted parents. A toll-free telephone number provides information about the problem and what can be done to help. Nearly 50 affiliate members strengthen national outreach efforts. NACoA is the only organization working for children who have alcohol or other drug dependent parents on a national level.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12557078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12557078", "title": "Navy Occupational Safety &amp; Health", "text": "Navy Occupational Safety &amp; Health\n\nNavy Occupational Safety & Health (NAVOSH) is a U.S. Navy organization. It is responsible for safety practices within the Navy.\n\nNAVOSH provides safety assistance and advice to the CNO, CMC, and the Deputy Assistant SECNAV for Safety with the aim of enhancing the war-fighting capability of the Navy and Marine Corps, preserve resources, and improve combat readiness by preventing mishaps and saving lives.\n\n"}
{"id": "54566496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54566496", "title": "Nese Ituaso-Conway", "text": "Nese Ituaso-Conway\n\nNese Ituaso-Conway is the Director of Public Health at Princess Margaret Hospital (Funafuti), which operates satellite health clinics on each of the 9 Islands of Tuvalu.\n\nShe was born on Nanumaga island. She attended Motufoua Secondary School, then complete her secondary education at Cathedral School, Townsville, Australia. She gained entry to the Fiji School of Medicine. After graduating with a MBBS degree she spent 12 months as a intern at the main hospital in Suva before returning to Tuvalu in 1999 as one of Tuvulu's first two female doctors. She completed a Master of Public Health at the University of Hawaii.\n\nDr Nese Ituaso-Conway is employed by the Department of Health of Tuvalu and as the chief medical officer of Tuvalu, she oversees the implementation of the Department of Health programs to address Public health issues and Tropical diseases that occur in the islands. The tropical diseases include Tuberculosis and Elephantiasis tropica (Lymphatic filariasis). In 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed an outbreak of dengue fever in Tuvalu. The illness has re-emerged in several Pacific Island countries after a period of twenty years.\n\nDr Ituaso-Conway has been appointed as a member of international committees that co-ordinate health responses in Pacific island nations, including:\n\nDr Ituaso-Conway is the National TB Programme Manager in Tuvalu for the SPC Tuberculosis Control Section, which is part of the SPC Public Health Division (PHD); and has contributed to the Global Tuberculosis Report, which is published annually by the World Health Organization.\n\nDr Ituaso-Conway has contributed to, and co-authored, a number of medical articles on aspects of tropical public health including:\n"}
{"id": "29609545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29609545", "title": "Norwegian Public Safety Network", "text": "Norwegian Public Safety Network\n\nThe Norwegian Public Safety Network ( literally \"Emergency Network\") is a public safety network system based on Terrestrial Trunked Radio (TETRA). Nødnett is implemented by the Directorate for Emergency Communication (). The network is primarily used for internal and interdisiplinary communication by the police, fire departments and health services. Nødnett is also used by several organisations participating in rescue and emergency work. Planning of the network started in 1995 and in 2006 the contract to build it was awarded to Nokia Siemens Networks. As Nokia Siemens Networks was unable to complete the contract, it was passed on to Motorola Solutions in 2012. The critical infrastructure of Nødnett was finished and was operational in all districts of mainland Norway by December 1, 2015.\n\nThe network replaced nearly 300 local and regional networks which operataed independently for the fire, police and healthcare agencies. Nødnett allows functionality such as authentication, encryption and higher reliability.\n\nPrior to the introduction of \"Nødnett\", Norway had three separate systems for telecommunications within the police, fire departments and paramedics, all based on analog radio. The old system had two main downsides: it was not encrypted, and it prevented communication between agencies. This was particularly problematic in larger disasters and accidents, and in instances where criminals listened to the police radio during police actions. The Norwegian Data Inspectorate had also instructed the agencies to encrypt their communications for reasons of privacy. This would either have to be done through an expensive upgrade to the existing systems, or through the construction of a new, digital network.\n\nAnother issue is using standardized technology for communication with agencies in other countries. Norway is a member of the Schengen Agreement, which requires trans-border communication between law enforcement agencies. There were 27 different networks for the police, one for each police district. In Oslo, Akershus and Østfold, the police had also been using Enhanced Digital Access Communication System since 1994. There were 230 municipal fire department radio systems, and a manual mobile phone system for the health sector. The health network was built by the county municipalities between 1990 and 1995 and covers all parts of the health service, including paramedics, ambulance services, midwives and medical doctors. The various systems had different levels of coverage. In addition, Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM) and Nordic Mobile Telephone (NMT450) telephones were being used where encrypted communication was necessary.\n\nKeeping the old systems and converting them to encrypted systems was also considered. This was estimated to cost NOK 500 million to install, but could not be guaranteed to work satisfactorily. In particular, encryption would delay communications, which would be a problem for urgent communications. It was also uncertain whether the level of encryption would be sufficient to allow the network to be considered closed and allow personal information to be transmitted.\n\nThe government considered using a similar procurement solution to that in Denmark, where the spectrum was licensed to private enterprise, and the agencies purchase services from private telecommunications companies, based on conventional GSM technology. However, in Denmark this had not led to the desired results, with only Metropolitan Copenhagen being covered. Instead, the Norwegian Government chose to establish a government agency to build and operate the network. Use of the GSM and NMT450 network was insufficient because of lack of capacity in the conventional network in case of larger amounts of communication, lack of ability of group conversations, lack of priority systems and long dial-up times.\n\nUsing conventional GSM systems was rejected also because GSM lacks many of the functionalities of TETRA, such as group conversations, dispatcher centers, and direct communication. In addition, Global System for Mobile Communication – Railway (GSM-R) was considered, but rejected because of the lack of trans-border functionality and the need for more base stations, and thus higher investment costs, and longer start-up time for calls. The technology was considered because the Norwegian National Rail Administration was at the time building a GSM-R network to cover the entire Norwegian railway network. Another reason that TETRA was preferred was that at the time of decision there were five manufacturers of TETRA equipment and only two for GSM-R. TETRA also allows a fall-back system, where a base station can allow communication between users within the range of the base station, even if the central parts of the network break down.\n\nIn a parliamentary hearing in 2002 both DNK director Tor Helge Lyngstøl and Minister of Justice, Odd Einar Dørum, stated that the choice of TETRA would provide sufficient data capacity. In a parliamentary decision in 2004 it was decided to opt for the open European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) as a data transmission standard, which is used by all other police TETRA systems in Europe, but this was later changed by the directorate to the proprietary TETRA Enhanced Data Service (TEDS) owned by Motorola. The latter would limit the number of supplies and would increase the investment costs.\n\nIn 2000, the annual cost of agency communication was NOK 175 million, while this had increased to NOK 260 million in 2004. The increase was largely caused by the increase in use of mobile telephones. The costs of the fire department networks was paid for by the municipalities, the health network paid for by the municipalities and the regional health authorities, and the police networks by the respective police districts.\n\nWork with the system started in 1995, when the Norwegian Board of Health Supervision took initiative for a new mobile telecommunications platform. The issue was coordinated by the Ministry of Justice, and the issue was first discussed politically in 1997, and in 1998 a project group was created. In 2001, a pilot project was established in Trondheim, which included all three agencies. The trial was successful and terminated in June 2003. Later that year, the Parliament of Norway made the principal decision to establish the network. Quality control of the project was concluded in June 2004, and construction was estimated at NOK 3.6 billion.\n\nThe procurement process was initially led by the Ministry of Justice and the Police, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Care Services, the National Police Directorate, the Directorate for Health and Social Affairs and the Directorate for Civil Defence and Emergency Planning. The public tender was launched in May 2005, and on 22 December 2006 the contract was signed with Nokia Siemens Networks. The project is the largest single information technology contract ever awarded in Norway. The Directorate for Emergency Communication was established on 1 April 2007.\n\nOriginal plans called for the system to be built between 2007 and 2011. Implementation was planned in six phases, numbered zero through five. Between phases zero and one, an evaluation of the process was planned.\n\nBy June 2007, the project was delayed by half a year. One of the major delays in the project has been the development of the software for the health sector's communication centers—which consist of emergency wards, casualty wards, emergency dispatch centers and aircraft coordination centers. The system is being developed by Frequentis in Austria, who have stated that they did not receive sufficient specifications. In December 2009, the state granted NOK 110 million extra for development of the system. Health workers will therefore be taking the network into use in May 2010, after the police and fire departments in Follo and Østfold. Representatives for the Police Directorate have criticized the implementation model and stated that in most other countries, the system was implemented first just for the police and afterwards taken into use by the fire and paramedic agencies. For instance, Østfold Police District had installed a new center in February 2008, but had to wait 21 months to take it into use while waiting for Public Safety Radio.\n\nThe Police Directorate sees the use of the encrypted communication as the system's greatest benefit, and has stated that it sees no reason for the implementation to stop while it is being evaluated, and that there is no alternative to implementing it nationally. The system was first taken into use in Østfold and Follo in December 2009, and by Oslo in March 2010. In Oslo, the police chose to close the analog network down before the TETRA system had been installed in all vehicles, and instead give all officers hand-held devices, to speed up the closing of the old network, which is regarded as a security hazard. Traditionally, journalists have learned about events by listening to the police radios. The police have appointed press officers who will inform the press about newsworthy incidents. The alarm center for the fire departments in Østfold and Follo started using the system in June 2010.\n\nIn August 2010, the emergency health communication centers in Østfold and the casualty ward at Fredrikstad Hospital started using the system. This was followed by the emergency rooms in Halden and Aremark, in Rakkestad and Sarpsborg, and in Oslo. For the health sector, phase zero involved 40 communication centers, of which 20 were emergency rooms, 16 casualty wards at hospitals, one air ambulance coordination center and three emergency health communication centers, in addition to radios in the 150 ambulances that serves the region.\n\nThe official opening of the network took place on 17 August 2010. In October 2010, Arne Johannesen, the leader of the Norwegian Police Federation, stated that he wanted to place the building of the radio network on hold and instead use the funding for a new information technology system for the police force, named D#2.\n\nDNK carried out tests with the system in 2010 for firefighters using self-contained breathing apparatus in structure fires, and found the system to be sufficient. Similar test were carried out by Oslo Fire Department later that year, and they found that the radio system was insufficient for their needs. Oslo Fire Department concluded that the DNK tests were only successful because of the use of additional directional gateway/repeater-radio equipment. Because of this firefighters in Oslo continued to use the old ultra-high frequency radios during indoor fires. Both the Norwegian Police Security Service's bodyguard service and the service for protection of the royal family have opted to not use the new radio system, citing poor coverage indoors and while lying on the ground, even in downtown Oslo. The services have stated that this does not allow for interoperability with other agencies, which is a drawback in case of major incidents. Also the joint rescue coordination centers, the Norwegian Air Ambulance and the 330 Squadron which operates Westland Sea King search and rescue helicopters have opted out of using the system because of poor coverage. During the 2011 Norway attacks at Utøya, located in northern Buskerud, police officers from surrounding police districts were not able to communicate with local police because the area did not have coverage for the TETRA system.\n\nNødnett is owned by the Directorate for Emergency Communication, which is subordinate to the Ministry of Justice. The ministry signed an agreement with Nokia Siemens Networks to install the system. In 2012, Motorola Solutions signed an agreement to take over the project.\n\nThe directorate is led by Tor Helge Lyngstøl and has its offices in Nydalen in Oslo.\n\nThe cost of constructing the network has been covered by the ministry. The costs of operating and maintaining the network are covered by the users, who also purchase their own terminals. Payment to the directorate is by an annual subscription fee per terminal, based on the terminal's use. For a terminal only used for stand-by, the annual subscription cost is NOK 1,700 per year (2016), while that for a terminal in a control room is NOK 45,000 (2016). As the cost of running the network is fixed independently of the amount of traffic, there is no cost for using the network. As additional users start implementing the system, the costs per subscriber will be reduced.\n\nThe Terrestrial Trunked Radio network has three components: the core net, which is a centralized computer center based on an Internet Protocol structure; the transmission net, which connects the core net, the radio net and other connection points with high-capacity lines; and the radio net, which consists of about 2100 base stations with antennas in masts, on buildings and in some tunnels. The network is controlled by Motorola. In case a base station no longer can communicate with the core net, the base station can still relay communication within its range. Should the base station fall out or operations occur in areas without coverage, the terminals can communicate directly with each other.\n\nAll communication from mobile terminals to the base stations is encrypted with a key known only to the base station and the terminal. For group conversations, two keys are used, one from the terminal to the base station, and one from the base station to all users. In addition, there are 32 fixed keys used for terminal-to-terminal communication should the base station fall out. In addition, the police can use a user-to-user encryption where the communication is encrypted all the way through the network from the one user to the other.\n\nNødnett ensures 100% population coverage and 86% area coverage, which exceeds any of the existing GSM networks. This includes good coverage indoors, to aid fire fighters, as well as full coverage of the coastline and coverage up to 2,500 meters (8,000 ft) height for aircraft. Nødnett gives full coverage along all national and county roads. The system also allows interoperability towards the maritime radio. The network also allows for transmission of data at a speed of 12-13 kbit/s.\n\nThere has been raised criticism against several fundamental shortcomings in the network system. The most fundamental is the lack of indoor coverage. This has in part been reversed by increasing the signal strength in urban areas and installing repeaters at for instance medical clinics, Oslo Courthouse and Oslo Airport, Gardermoen. Other shortcomings are that the location of base stations are publicly know, allowing for easy sabotage and increased investment costs because of the choice of the proprietary TEDS instead of the open ETSI system.\n\nThe system has two types of receivers: radio terminals, which can either be hand-held or mounted in vehicles, and desktop equipment for control centers. The system will include 40,000 radios throughout the country. Compared to the analog network, the digital radio equipment will be smaller and have options for additional equipment such as hands free, and allow special radios for motorcycles, snowmobiles, boats, undercover activities and smoke diving. Communication can either be performed as one-to-one conversations, group calls for predefined or ad-hoc groups, with radios able to be part of several groups, or as walkie talkies in areas without network coverage. The digital transmission reduced background noise and allows monitoring terminal identity to prohibit unauthorized use. All radios are equipped with an emergency button that will give priority in the network.\n\nControl room terminals will have new functionality including identification of all users and radio terminal positioning, radio and telephone inquiries made on the same equipment, use of either loudspeakers or head sets, and allowing operators to listen to each other's conversations. Operators have access to telephone books and speed dials, touch screen operations of voice and data traffic, monitoring of other talk groups, simultaneous calls to several talk groups and access to voice logs.\n\n"}
{"id": "806123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806123", "title": "Nursing diagnosis", "text": "Nursing diagnosis\n\nA nursing diagnosis may be part of the nursing process and is a clinical judgment about individual, family, or community experiences/responses to actual or potential health problems/life processes. Nursing diagnoses foster the nurse's independent practice (e.g., patient comfort or relief) compared to dependent interventions driven by physician's orders (e.g., medication administration). Nursing diagnoses are developed based on data obtained during the nursing assessment. An actual nursing diagnosis presents a problem response present at time of assessment. Whereas a medical diagnosis identifies a disorder, a nursing diagnosis identifies problems that result from that disorder. The nursing diagnostic process is unique among others. A nursing diagnosis integrates patient involvement, when possible, throughout the process. \nThe North American Nursing Diagnosis Association (NANDA) is body of professionals that manage an official list of nursing diagnosis.\n\nAll nurses must be familiar with the steps of the nursing process in order to gain the most efficiency from their positions. In order to select the correct nursing diagnosis, the nurse must make quick and accurate conclusions from patient data during assessment. \n\n\"NANDA-International\" formerly known as the North American Nursing Diagnosis Association is the primary organization for defining, distribution and integration of standardized nursing diagnoses worldwide. NANDA-I has worked in this area for nearly 40 years to ensure that diagnoses are developed through a peer-reviewed process requiring standardised levels of evidence, definitions, defining characteristics, related factors and/or risk factors that enable nurses to identify potential diagnoses in the course of a nursing assessment. NANDA-I believes that it is critical that nurses are required to utilise standardised languages that provide not just terms (diagnoses) but the embedded knowledge from clinical practice and research that provides diagnostic criteria (definitions, defining characteristics) and the related or etiologic factors upon which nurses intervene. NANDA-I terms are developed and refined for actual (current) health responses and for risk situations, as well as providing diagnoses to support health promotion. Diagnoses are applicable to individuals, families, groups and communities. The taxonomy is published in multiple countries and has been translated into 18 languages; it is in use worldwide. As research in the field of nursing continues to grow, NANDA-I continually develops and adds new diagnostic labels. \n\nNursing diagnoses are a critical part of ensuring that the knowledge and contribution of nursing practice to patient outcomes are found within the electronic health record and can be linked to nurse-sensitive patient outcomes.\n\nThe ICNP (International Classification for Nursing Practice) published by the International Council of Nurses has been accepted by the WHO (World Health Organisation) family of classifications. ICNP is a nursing language which can be used by nurses to diagnose.\n\nThe NANDA-I system of nursing diagnosis provides for four categories.\n\nThe diagnositic process requires a nurse to use critical thinking. In addition to knowing the nursing diagnoses and their definitions, the nurse becomes aware of defining characteristics and behaviors of the diagnoses, related factors to the diagnoses, and the interventions suited for treating the diagnoses. \n\n\nThe following are nursing diagnoses arising from the nursing literature with varying degrees of authentication by ICNP or NANDA-I standards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18135821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18135821", "title": "Néstor Braunstein", "text": "Néstor Braunstein\n\nNéstor Alberto Braunstein (born 1941, in Bell Ville) is an Argentine-Mexican physician, psychiatrist and psychoanalyst.\n\nBraunstein graduated as a physician in 1962, at the age of 20, and received his M.D. in 1965 from the Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Argentina, where he taught at college level as early as 1959. In 1974 he was forced into exile for political and academic reasons and moved to Mexico where he worked as a psychiatrist in different public institutions for the treatment of both children and adults. Braunstein is a naturalized citizen of Mexico. He is currently a graduate studies professor, a practicing psychoanalyst and an active writer.\n\nIn 1978 he was banned from his duties and positions in all Mexican psychiatric institutions because of his critical epistemological views on the official taxonomies of the so-called mental illnesses (then DSM-III and CIE-10.\n\nImmediately after arriving in Mexico he published (with some chapters written by Marcelo Pasternac, Frida Saal and Gloria Benedito): \"Psicología: Ideología y ciencia\" in which he demolishes academic psychology and denounces its conceit as a \"true\" science. Instead, Braunstein proposed psychoanalysis as an alternative and as a methodological tool to deal with human subjectivity and to redirect the study of psychology. The book had enormous success: 24 editions were printed between 1975 and 2008 (more than 70,000 copies sold). This work helped to change the ideological landscape in almost every school of psychology in Spanish speaking countries of Latin America and the author was invited to lecture about his ideas on psychology and psychoanalysis to commemorate the 20th, 25th and 30th anniversary of the first edition of the book.\n\nIn 1980 he published a pioneering book dealing with Lacanian psychoanalysis, the first to appear in Mexico, \"Psiquiatría, teoría del sujeto, psicoanálisis. (Hacia Lacan)\" which was also received with general acclaim; 14 editions were printed and is widely read, referred to and quoted. Beginning in 1981 he became the editor of a continuously reprinted series of books, \"Coloquios de la Fundación\" with 13 titles published that helped to expand the knowledge of Freudian and Lacanian psychoanalysis in Latin America.\n\nBetween 1975 and 2005 he taught Freudian and Lacanian psychoanalysis in the Graduate Studies Department of Clinical Psychology at the Facultad de Psicología of the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México and since 2005 he has been teaching in the Facultad de Filosofía y Letras of that same institution. He is a member of the board and professor in the Ph.D. in Critical Theory of 17, Instituto de Estudios Críticos and Secretary of the Administrative Board of Siglo Veintiuno Editores .\n\nIn Mexico, he introduced Lacan's teachings by different means in different venues. He taught the first course devoted to Lacanian Studies (UNAM, 1977), published the first Mexican article on Lacan (\"Lust\", Mexico, n° 1, 1979) and wrote the forementioned book \"Psiquiatría, teoría del sujeto, psicoanálisis (Hacia Lacan\". In 1980 he co-founded a pioneering institute devoted to the Lacanian clinic (Fundación Mexicana de Psicoanálisis). Braunstein was also the chairman and co-founder of the first officially recognized psychoanalytic teaching institution in the country (Centro de Investigaciones y Estudios Psicoanalíticos, 1982) where he taught until 2003.\n\nHe is active in the psychoanalytic lecturing circuit and has given opening or closing lectures in several international symposiums including the following: Bogota (Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, 1991 , Beijing (Psychoanalysis International Symposium, Peking University Health Science Center, Beijing April, 2001), Paris (Lacan, 100 ans, la Sorbonne, January 23, 2000), New York City (Columbia University and Fordham University, 1992 and 2008 \nApres-Coup announcement of Columbia lectures, Madrid (Universidad Complutense, Master en Teoría Psicoanalítica 1993 and 1997) , Istambul (Istanbul'da Psykanaliz, Etkinlikleri Sürüyor, September, 2001), Rome(Fondation Européennne pour la Psychanalyse, RSI /Eros-ion, Les peintures de Leonardo Cremonini, May, 1999) and Santiago de Chile (Universidad Andrés Bello. Mención Psicoanálisis, April 2000) .\n\nBeginning in 1985 he has traveled constantly to different cities of America and Europe imparting seminars on Lacanian psychoanalysis.\n\nAs a cultural journalist specializing in psychoanalysis he has written many articles for general and specialized Mexican newspapers (Excelsior, Uno Más Uno, Reforma, Este País, El Universal, Revista de la Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México). He is active as a member of the editorial boards in several psychoanalytic journals published in Spanish, French, Portuguese and English (see below) and he has translated a number of literary and psychoanalytic texts into Spanish.\n\nBraunstein recognizes the following authors as the main influences on his thought: Jacques Lacan, Sigmund Freud, Friedrich Nietzsche, Louis Althusser, Jorge Luis Borges, Jacques Derrida, Slavoj Žižek and Giorgio Agamben.\n\nHis works have dealt with a variety of subjects in terms of the relationship between psychoanalysis and culture: philosophy from Plato to Wittgenstein and Derrida; literature from Sophocles to Sebald and Christa Wolf; the visual arts; music; opera; film theater; history; theology; medicine; neuroscience; law; linguistics; anthropology; academic psychology; pedagogy; politics; psychiatry and daily life in the 21st century. Since 2003 he has turned his attention to the subject of memory, articulating the meaning and research on the ability to remember in psychoanalysis and its constant references (Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan) and those sources that can be derived from other disciplines such as literature, philosophy, history and neuroscience.\n\nIn his best known work \"Goce\" \"Jouissance. A Lacanian Concept\", he argues that the nucleus that holds psychoanalytical clinic and theory together is the concept of jouissance, which can be minimally defined as \"the ways in which a body is affected by language\". In this sense he argues that psychoanalysis can be understood as a sort of science of jouissance in the speaking being, a sophisticated knowledge that has been carefully constructed, first by Freud, continued by Lacan and still ongoing.\n\nIn his last book published in French, \"Depuis Freud, Après Lacan\" (Ramonville, Érès, 2008) Braunstein posits his theory of three different periods in the history of psychoanalysis. They can be emblematically traced to the year 1900 (Freud's era, under the predominance of the \"discourse of the Master\"), 1950 (Lacan's times, under the hegemony of the \"discourse of the Capitalist\") and our present age (year 2000), ruled by the omnipresent and anonymous \"discourse of the Markets\".\n\nPublished in Portuguese as: \"Gozo\", São Paulo, Escuta, 2007. , and currently being translated into English (Verso, 2001)\n\nTo be published in Paris, Au bord de l'eau, 2014. Translation by Ana Claudia Delgado Restrepo.\n\nBraunstein was invited to write the chapter “Desire and Jouissance in Lacanian Teachings” in \"The Cambridge Companion to Lacan\" (Cambridge, London and Boston, 2003), Jean-Michel Rabaté (ed.). and \n\nAuthor of more than 230 papers on psychoanalysis, philosophy, art and culture published in specialized journals and magazines of America and Europe.\n\nIn German:\n\nIn English:\n\nIn French and Spanish:\n\nIn Portuguese:\n\nIn Spanish:\n\napres coup announcement of Columbia lectures\n"}
{"id": "58696917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58696917", "title": "PSYCHLOPS", "text": "PSYCHLOPS\n\nPSYCHLOPS (psychological outcome profiles) is a type of psychological testing, a tool used in primary care to measure mental health outcomes and as a quality of life measure.\n\nIt is also one intervention that has been adapted for use in children and adopted by the World Health Organization (WHO) in response to a demand for guidance on psychological interventions for people exposed to adversity, including humanitarian disasters.\n\nPSYCHLOPS is a mental health outcome-measure tool used in primary care or community care settings and is self-completed. It measures mental health problems, quality of life, social functioning and wellbeing. Others include the Beck Depression Inventory, the CORE-OM, Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7 (GAD-7) and the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), amongst others. \n\nBy comparing scores before, during and after completion of talking therapy, the measure enables calculation of a change score. The change score indicates the change (improvement or deterioration) in perceived severity of problems during and following a course of talking therapy. PSYCHLOPS is a patient-generated outcome measure which means that measurement is based on items (issues) selected by patients rather than pre-specified items. By gathering information on patient-generated items, PSYCHLOPS contains a free text record (qualitative data) of the patient’s own perception of their problems which can be used for qualitative research.\n\nIt is also one intervention that has been adopted by the WHO in response to a demand for guidance on psychological interventions for people exposed to adversity. This includes people caught up in humanitarian crises and incorporates common mental health problems in a variety of countries, cultures and settings. WHO has included it in two of their mental health programmes, Programme Management Plus (PM+)and Self Help Plus (SH+), both of which use locally trained mental health workers to administer mental health support in countries affected by conflict and war.\n\nPSYCHLOPS has been adapted for use in children. Unlike a checklist, \"PSYCHLOPS Kids\" allows children to identify their worries themselves.\nFor children taking part in drama therapy, they have the potential to recognise the impact of their therapy. The reliance on the support of school staff has been reported as one limitation.\n\nPSYCHLOPS is completed by the individual person. A specific sequence of questions is included in the questionnaire which address the respondent’s greatest and least worries. These concerns are then scored. Subsequently, the answers and scores can be used to evaluate their perception of the change in their problems as a result of counselling or other talking therapy. It uses a six-point scale rather than the seven used in its sister questionnaire, MYMOP.\n\nThe procedure encompasses answering four questions on one sheet, with the first question being “Choose the problem that troubles you most?” This is followed by scoring it on a six-point scoring range and recording the duration of the problem. An outcome score is calculated using the scores of each of the before, during and after questionnaires.\n\nPSYCHLOPS was designed by an academic British general practitioner and was adapted from the self-report inventory, MYMOP (Measure Yourself Medical Outcome Profile), another outcome measure first published in 1996 and mainly used for people who present with physical, emotional, or social symptoms. \n\nThere has been debate as to whether to identify and measure individualized outcomes that are unique for each patient (idiographic approach) or to use standardized measures (nomothetic approach). Both measures have their advantages and disadvantages.\n\nAs a patient-generated measure, PSYCHLOPS appears a more sensitive (responsive) measure of change following a mental health intervention than some other standardised measures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38557345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38557345", "title": "Permanent Representative of Liberia to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Representative of Liberia to the United Nations\n\nThis is a list of the Permanent Representatives of the Republic of Liberia to the United Nations. The current office holder is Marjon Kamara, since 8 October 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "11608859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11608859", "title": "Prevention of dementia", "text": "Prevention of dementia\n\nThe aim of dementia prevention is to delay or prevent dementia. Dementia prevention is a global health priority and as such requires a global response. Recent initiatives include the establishment of the International Research Network on Dementia Prevention (IRNDP) which aims to link researchers in this field globally, and the establishment of the Global Dementia Observatory a web-based data knowledge and exchange platform, which will collate and disseminate key dementia data from members states. Although there is no cure for dementia currently, it is well established that modifiable risk factors influence both the likelihood of developing dementia and the age at which it is developed. Dementia can be prevented by reducing the risk factors for vascular disease (e.g. diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, smoking, and physical inactivity) and depression. Livingstone et al. (2014) conclude that more than a third dementia cases are theoretically preventable.\n\n\"Use it or lose it\" might be applied to the brain when it comes to dementia. Intellectual activities help keep the mind in shape in later years. Activities such as reading, learning a new language, playing cards and board games and playing a musical instrument can postpone the onset and slow the progression of both Alzheimer's and vascular dementia. The risk decrease is proportional to frequency of activity, with slower cognitive decline being associated with both late-life and early-life increased cognitive activity.\n\nApart from spare time activities, a mentally demanding job may prevent dementia, especially during the thirties, forties and fifties.\n\nMental activity may help to prevent dementia by building up a \"brain reserve\": additional connections between neurons are created which are more resistant to the deterioration seen in dementia.\n\nSince vascular dementia is the second most common form of dementia (after Alzheimer's disease), reducing the risk of cerebrovascular disease also reduces the risk of dementia. Thus, physical exercise, having good blood cholesterol, healthy body weight and blood pressure lowers the risk of developing dementia. An active lifestyle can almost halve the risk compared to a sedentary one.\n\nResults of one meta-analysis, which investigated the relationship between physical activity and risk of cognitive decline in people without dementia, showed exercise had a significant and consistent protective effect against cognitive decline, with high levels of physical activity being most protective. Another meta-analysis showed that not only did aerobic exercise reduce the risk of dementia but it may also slow cognitive decline in those with dementia.\n\nThe effect of physical activity is not limited to vascular effects. Physical activity can give rise to new neurons in the brain, as well as releasing a substance that can protect them. The protein known as brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) is known to be important in the development, survival and plasticity of neurons. Regular exercise can boost BDNF levels by 2–3 times.\n\nObesity increases the risk of any dementia and Alzheimer's disease in particular. The effect of alcohol on the risk of dementia is a J curve: high alcohol consumption increases the risk of dementia while low alcohol consumption may be protective. However, low alcohol consumption may not protect against vascular dementia and overall cognitive decline. Moderate alcohol consumption can possibly reduce the risk of vascular disease and dementia because it can increase blood levels of HDL cholesterol and weakens blood-clotting agents such as fibrinogen, which offers some protection against heart attacks and small subclinical strokes that together can ultimately damage the brain.\n\nThe effects of omega-3 fatty acid in the prevention of dementia is uncertain. Vegetables and nuts may be of benefit, because of their high content of polyunsaturated fats. Non-fish meat, on the other hand, increases the risk of Alzheimer's, because of its high content of saturated fat. However, consumption of fish should be limited due to concerns over mercury poisoning, which could exacerbate the symptoms of dementia.\n\nNiacin (vitamin B) is also believed to prevent dementia as research shows those who have the highest levels of niacin in their blood, are believed to have the lowest risk of developing dementia or having cognitive decline. Niacin is involved with DNA synthesis and repair and also neural cell signaling, it improves circulation and reduces cholesterol levels. In order for niacin to have a positive effect on the brain, it is recommended that patients have 100 to 300 mg per day.\n\nThere is evidence for an association between cognitive decline, homocysteine (Hcy) status, and vitamin B status relating especially to B12 and also to vitamins B6 and B9. In particular, deficiency of vitamin B12 and/or of folate can cause an increase in Hcy plasma levels, which in turn leads to toxic effects on the vascular and nervous systems.\n\nVitamin D deficiency correlates with cognitive impairment and dementia; however, the value of vitamin D substitution in cognitive impairment remains doubtful.\n\nMore than nine hours of sleep per day (including daytime napping) may be associated with an increased risk of dementia. Lack of sleep may also increase risk of dementia by increasing beta-amyloid deposition.\n\nBeing neurotic increases the risk of developing Alzheimer's, a type of dementia. Neuroticism is associated with increased brain atrophy and cognitive impairment in life, while conscientiousness has a protective effect by preventing brain atrophy.\n\nDepressive symptoms can be a part of the clinical presentation of dementia, leading to debate as to whether depression is a cause or a symptom of dementia. The evidence remains unclear. However, Livingstone et al. (2014) report that it is \"biologically plausible\" that depression increases the risk of dementia. There is some evidence that late-life depression increases the risk of dementia however suggesting treating depression in mid-life might delay or prevent dementia.\n\nSome studies say Alzheimer's and other dementias may be caused by high blood pressure, since it can cause blood vessel damage through constriction. The etiology of vascular dementia includes hypertension, and thus, lowering blood pressure with antihypertensives may have a positive effect in the prevention of dementia, just as physical activity.\n\nHowever, one study failed to demonstrate a link between high blood pressure and developing dementia. The study, published in the \"Lancet Neurology\" journal of July 2008, found that blood pressure lowering medication did not reduce the incidence of dementia to a statistically significant degree. A prospective meta-analysis of the data from this study with other studies suggested that further research might be warranted.\n\nA study of participants in the Leisure World Cohort Study and The 90+ Study showed that people whose high blood pressure began in their 80s might be less likely to develop dementia than people who did not have high blood pressure.\n\nWhile the results of studies are somewhat inconsistent, it has been recommended that hypertension in mid-life (45–65 years) and older age (65+ years) should be actively treated to reduce the risk of dementia.\n\nDiabetes mellitus is a risk factor for vascular dementia, and is thus the risk is lowered with anti-diabetic drugs.\n\nBesides, Rosiglitazone (Avandia) improves memory and thinking ability for people with mild Alzheimer's disease. The mechanism of the effect may be the ability of the drug to reduce insulin resistance. Thus, less insulin needs to be released to achieve its metabolic effects. Insulin in the bloodstream is a trigger of amyloid beta-production, so decreased insulin levels decrease the level of amyloid beta. This leads to less formation of amyloid plaques seen in Alzheimer's disease.\n\nEstrogen may also help in the prevention of dementia but cannot help when dementia is already present and when cognitive function is already impaired. It increases cerebral blood flow and is an anti-inflammatory agent, enhancing activity at the neuronal synapses in the brain. It may also help to increase brain activation in regions that are affected by dementia which is mainly the hippocampus region. Recent evidence on the effects of estrogen do not allow for an unambiguous recommendation for estrogen supplementation and they indicate that the timing of estrogen supplementation may be important, with early postmenopausal use being preferable over its use later in life.\n\nNon-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can decrease the risk of developing Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. The length of time needed to prevent dementia varies, but in most studies it is usually between 2 and 10 years. Research has also shown that it must be used in clinically relevant dosages and that so called \"baby aspirin\" doses are ineffective at treating dementia.\n\nAlzheimer's disease causes inflammation in the neurons by its deposits of amyloid beta peptides and neurofibrillary tangles. These deposits irritate the body by causing a release of e.g. cytokines and acute phase proteins, leading to inflammation. When these substances accumulate over years they contribute to the effects of Alzheimer's. NSAIDs inhibit the formation of such inflammatory substances, and prevent the deteriorating effects.\n\nThere is as yet no vaccine against dementia. It has been theorized that a vaccine could activate the body's own immune system to combat the beta amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease. One problem to overcome is overreaction from the immune system, leading to encephalitis.\n\n"}
{"id": "106029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106029", "title": "Reproductive technology", "text": "Reproductive technology\n\nReproductive technology encompasses all current and anticipated uses of technology in human and animal reproduction, including assisted reproductive technology, contraception and others.\n\nAssisted reproductive technology (ART) is the use of reproductive technology to treat low fertility or infertility. ART is currently the only form of reproductive technology in clinical use, and is more effective in those suffering from ovulatory disorders or endometriosis (those without a functional uterus, for example, for the time being can only conceive through surrogacy methods). Examples of ART include \"in vitro\" fertilization and its possible expansions, including:\n\nReproductive technology can inform family planning by providing individual prognoses regarding the likelihood of pregnancy. It facilitates the monitoring of ovarian reserve, follicular dynamics and associated biomarkers in females, and semen analysis in males.\n\nContraception is a form of reproductive technology that enables people to control their fertility.\n\nThe following reproductive techniques are not currently in routine clinical use; most are still undergoing development:\n\nResearch is currently investigating the possibility of same-sex procreation, which would produce offspring with equal genetic contributions from either two females or two males. This form of reproduction has become a possibility through the creation of either female sperm (containing the genetic material of a female) or male eggs (containing the genetic material of a male). Same-sex procreation would remove the need for lesbian and gay couples to rely on a third party donation of a sperm or an egg for reproduction.\n\nThe first significant development occurred in 1991, in a patent application filed by U.Penn. scientists to fix male sperm by extracting some sperm, correcting a genetic defect in vitro, and injecting the sperm back into the male's testicles. While the vast majority of the patent application dealt with male sperm, one line suggested that the procedure would work with XX cells, i.e., cells from an adult woman to make female sperm.\n\nIn the two decades that followed, the idea of female sperm became more of a reality. In 1997, scientists partially confirmed such techniques by creating chicken female sperm in a similar manner. They did so by injecting blood stem cells from an adult female chicken into a male chicken's testicles. In 2004, other Japanese scientists created two female offspring by combining the eggs of two adult mice.\n\nIn 2008, research was done specifically for methods on creating human female sperm using artificial or natural Y chromosomes and testicular transplantation. A UK-based group predicted they would be able to create human female sperm within five years. So far no conclusive successes have been achieved.\n\nIn 2018 Chinese research scientists produced 29 viable mice offspring from two mother mice by creating sperm-like structures from haploid Embryonic stem cells using gene editing to alter imprinted regions of DNA. They were unable to get viable offspring from two fathers. Experts noted that there was little chance of these techniques being applied to humans in the near future.\n\nMany issues of reproductive technology have given rise to bioethical issues, since technology often alters the assumptions that lie behind existing systems of sexual and reproductive morality. Other ethical considerations arise with the application of ART to women of advanced maternal age, who have higher changes of medical complications (including pre-eclampsia), and possibly in the future its application to post-menopausal women.\n\nAlso, ethical issues of human enhancement arise when reproductive technology has evolved to be a potential technology for not only reproductively inhibited people but even for otherwise reproductively healthy people.\n\n\"See individual subarticles for details\"\n"}
{"id": "43508372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43508372", "title": "Robert Spencer Stone", "text": "Robert Spencer Stone\n\nRobert Spencer Stone (5 June 1895 – 18 December 1966) was a Canadian American and pioneer in radiology, radiation therapy and radiation protection.\n\nRobert Spencer Stone, M.D., LLD was born in Chatham, Kent County, Ontario the son of Spencer ‘Pen’ Stone and Flora Maude Campbell. The Pen Stone family consisted of children Robert, Thomas, John, and Elizabeth.\nR.S. Stone married Wilhemina Rose Crawford on 24 June 1924 in London, Ontario. The Stone’s had 3 children: Robert Spencer, Ian Crawford and Margaret Isobel.\n\nIn 1917 Stone entered military service in the Royal Canadian Air Force and gained the rank of Lieutenant. He was assigned to the 111th Overseas Battalion, Canadian Overseas Expeditionary Force and fought in France during World War I. After being wounded in battle, he returned to Canada in 1919.\n\nStone attended the University of Toronto and earned a B.A. in 1917, M.A. in 1922, M.B. in 1924 and M.D. in 1928. From 1919 – 1921 he traveled to Peking, China to teach and work as an assistant in anatomy at the Peking Union Medical School. Stone went to Detroit, Michigan for his internship at Grace Hospital to study radiology under his uncle Dr. Rollin H. Stevens from 1925 – 1928.\n\nDuring the time in Peking, he produced his first two scientific publications. One paper dealt with abnormal sex ensemble of goats and the other paper described the central nervous system of a human cyclops.\n\nIn 1928 Stone moved to San Francisco to become the first radiologist on the faculty at the University of California School of Medicine. He stayed there until retirement in 1962. Stone developed a keen interest in radiation therapy and radiation protection. He continued his pursuits in retirement and earned the distinction as Emeritus Professor.\n\nIn 1935 Stone worked at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory, on the Berkeley Campus in an old wooden building abandoned by the Department of Engineering. This building was the first home of the 37-inch cyclotron held together by chicken wire and sealing wax. The cyclotron produced 32P for biological studies.\nIn that dilapidated building other pioneers that included John H. Lawrence, Paul C. Aebersold, and J. G. Hamilton were busy at work. Dr. Aebersold collaborated with Dr. Stone as one of the physicists who developed the 60-inch cyclotron into a neutron therapy source. Their work was published in 1939, and in 1940 their patient studies were published.\nDr. Stone and Dr. Hamilton were early pioneers in cyclotron produced “artificial radionuclides”, and published results on the distribution of radiosodium in man in February 1937.\nEarly on, most of the staff at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory was interested in pure physics. Money became available to establish the Crocker Laboratory for Medical Research, with a 60-inch cyclotron, capable of producing neutrons for Stone to pursue the treatment of malignant disease. Stone was allotted cyclotron time one afternoon each week for the treatment of patients. He was ahead of his time in the experimental treatment of tumors. \nThis work was suspended by World War II, and Dr. Stone became responsible for the health and safety of the workers of the Metallurgical Laboratory of the University of Chicago. The Met Lab was doing initial research on the metabolism of fission and fissionable products in collaboration with the Crocker Radiation Laboratory and Oak Ridge, Tennessee, and others. Stone's talents as physician and administrator became apparent since there were little or no over-exposures or radiation injuries, with numerous research and ancillary personnel involved in developing the techniques and procedures of the atomic age.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10120277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10120277", "title": "Scarlet Alliance", "text": "Scarlet Alliance\n\nScarlet Alliance is Australia's national peak sex worker organisation. It was formed in 1989. As an organisation maintained entirely by current and former sex workers, Scarlet Alliance aims to achieve equality, social, legal, political, cultural and economic justice for workers in the sex industry.\n\nSince its inception, Scarlet Alliance has primarily relied on volunteers to manage the organisation. Despite receiving various funding grants over the last decade and a half, the majority of Scarlet Alliance's work has remained unfunded. The organisation has stated its commitment to aims and objectives, to its membership and the broader sex worker community as always coming first. However, if funding can be sourced towards supporting key areas of this work without compromising political objectives, then it has been sought in order to boost the organisation's capacity as well as to support greater equity and access to events such as the annual national forum. In 2004 Scarlet Alliance was granted government funding to undertake project work in Australia and within the Asia/ Pacific region. This funding came to an end in 2012 when the Australian government allocated a greater amount of \"foreign aid\" towards running offshore detention facilities (defunding other projects).\n\nScarlet Alliance also employed two part-time bilingual migrant sex workers (Thai, Chinese and/or Korean) for nine years as part of a successful migration project with Empower Thailand. The project was informed by a steering committee of migrant sex workers across Australia and ensured migrant sex workers were represented in Australia’s round table which met to response to trafficking.\n\nScarlet Alliance advocates on behalf of a membership consisting of:\n\nThe organisation aims to inform and influence the policies of:\n\nScarlet Alliance aims to promote an increased understanding of sex workers and the issues affecting them. The organisation lobbies for policies which recognize sex workers as self-determining agents, with the option to choose where and how they work. Scarlet Alliance has undertaken campaigns to increase occupational health and safety standards in the sex industry, to recognize the human rights and labour rights of sex workers, and to repeal laws and policies which discriminate against sex workers.\n\nAs a national organisation, Scarlet Alliance facilitates an annual membership forum which is attended by sex worker delegates from around Australia. Every year the forum is held in a different state to maximise the inclusion of local sex workers. An Annual General Meeting (AGM) and public symposium or rally are also included within the forum's program.\n\nScarlet Alliance holds training, participates in forums and presents workshops at universities in Australia and within the Asia/ Pacific region. The organisation aims to break down the stigma, negative stereotyping and popular misconceptions surrounding sex work. Advocates from the organisation present evidence based research and information about who sex workers are, what is involved in sex work and why sex workers choose sex work.\n\nScarlet Alliance produces an annual magazine, \"proVision\". The magazine contains information about the organisation's activities, articles exploring current sex work policy issues and contributions from national and international sex workers. In keeping with the principle of community ownership, \"proVision\" is produced entirely by sex workers.\n\nScarlet Alliance networks with sister peer led sex worker organisations including:\n\nScarlet Alliance is a member of the Asia Pacific Network of Sex Workers and the Global Network of Sex Work Projects (NSWP).\n\nThe Scarlet Alliance National Training and Assessment Program (SANTAP) contains two parts- a learning tool and an assessment framework. The assessment framework offers sex workers the opportunity to have their skills in peer education and community mobilisation formally recognised through recognition of prior learning by peer assessors. On completion of the multi-module assessment process, participants are awarded a nationally recognised diploma.\nThe learning tool provides new or existing sex worker peer educators the required knowledge and grounding to apply for the diploma.\n\nThe Scarlet Alliance National Training Project (SANTP) is an assessment package consisting of 14 core modules and 4 elective modules. The project provides sex worker peer educators with an assessment tool which formally recognizes the unique skills they utilize in undertaking health promotion and community development work within sex worker communities. Participants in the training project are required to undertake an assessment process, supported by a qualified peer assessor, to achieve a nationally recognized Diploma of Community Education qualification. To successfully achieve the qualification, participants are required to demonstrate and document how they have employed peer education principles in their work with sex workers.\n\nModules in the training project include:\n\nThe training package was developed as a strategy to assist sex worker organisations and projects to deliver a nationally consistent standard of peer education.\n\nScarlet Alliance is a key advocate and participant in HIV and sexually transmitted infection (STI) prevention work in Australia. Sex worker communities in Australia have high rates of condom use, and low rates of STIs, including HIV/AIDS. The Australian sex industry's low rates of STIs and HIV has been attributed to sex worker communities self organizing to form peer led sex worker advocacy organisations in the early years of the HIV epidemic. Sex worker organisations, including Scarlet Alliance, employed community development principles to educate sex workers, sex industry business owners and sex industry clients about the need to adopt safer sex practices and harm reduction strategies to avoid potentially contracting HIV. Scarlet Alliance continues to lobby state and national governments about the difficulties of effective HIV prevention whilst sex work remains a criminalized occupation.\n\nScarlet Alliance has advocated for the rights of migrant sex workers for more than 15 years, and currently works to assist the Australian government to develop anti-trafficking policy which does not single out the sex industry for \"raids and rescues\". Scarlet Alliance advocates for the provision of work visas for migrant sex workers. The organisation argues that through accessing legal migration options, migrant sex workers are less susceptible to entering into verbal \"debt bondage\" contracts as an incentive to obtain passage to, and work within, Australia.\n\nScarlet Alliance's objectives, policies and current campaign issues are available on their website.\n\n"}
{"id": "17864802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17864802", "title": "Schiller–Duval body", "text": "Schiller–Duval body\n\nSchiller–Duval body is a cellular structure seen by microscope in endodermal sinus tumors (yolk sac tumors) which are the most common testicular cancer in children. Schiller-Duval bodies are present in approximately 50% of these tumors, and if found are pathognomonic. They are named for Mathias-Marie Duval and Walter Schiller who described them in the late nineteenth century.\n\nSchiller–Duval bodies are said to resemble a glomerulus. They have a mesodermal core with a central capillary, all lined by flattened layers of both visceral and parietal cells. Immunofluorescent stain may show eosinophilic hyalin-like globules both inside and outside the cytoplasm that contain AFP and alpha 1-antitrypsin.\n"}
{"id": "22659508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22659508", "title": "Sham surgery", "text": "Sham surgery\n\nSham surgery (placebo surgery) is a faked surgical intervention that omits the step thought to be therapeutically necessary.\n\nIn clinical trials of surgical interventions, sham surgery is an important scientific control. This is because it isolates the specific effects of the treatment as opposed to the incidental effects caused by anesthesia, the incisional trauma, pre- and postoperative care, and the patient's perception of having had a regular operation. Thus sham surgery serves an analogous purpose to placebo drugs, neutralizing biases such as the placebo effect.\n\nA number of studies done under IRB-approved settings have delivered important and surprising results. With the progress in minimally invasive surgery, sham procedures can be more easily performed as the sham incision can be kept small similarly to the incision in the studied procedure.\n\nIn a number of situations, sham-controlled interventions have identified interventions that are useless but had been believed by the medical community to be helpful based on studies without the use of sham surgery.\n\nIn 1939 Fieschi introduced internal mammary ligation as a procedure to improve blood flow to the heart. Not until a controlled study was done two decades later could it be demonstrated that the procedure was only as effective as the sham surgery.\n\nIn neurosurgery, cell-transplant surgical interventions were offered in many centers in the world for patients with Parkinson disease until sham-controlled experiments involving the drilling of burr holes into the skull demonstrated such interventions ineffective and possibly harmful. Subsequently, over 90% of surveyed investigators believed that future neurosurgical interventions (i.e. gene transfer therapies) should be evaluated by sham-controlled studies as these are superior to open-control designs, and have found it unethical to conduct an open-control study because the design is not strong enough to protect against the placebo effect and bias. Kim et al. point out that sham procedures can differ significantly in invasiveness, for instance in neurosurgical experiments the investigator may drill a burr hole to the dura mater only or enter the brain. In March 2013 a sham surgical study of a popular but biologically inexplicable venous balloon angioplasty procedure for multiple sclerosis showed the surgery was no better than placebo.\n\nMoseley and coworkers studied the effect of arthroscopic surgery for osteoarthritis of the knee establishing two treatment groups and a sham-operated control group. They found that patients in the treatment arms did no better than those in the control group. The fact that all three groups improved equally points to the placebo effect in surgical interventions.\nIn a recent study it was found, that arthroscopic partial meniscectomy does not offer any benefit over sham (or fake) surgery in relieving symptoms of knee locking or catching in patients with degenerative meniscal tears.\n\nSham surgery has been widely used in surgical animal models. Historically, studies in animals also allowed the removal or alteration of an organ; using sham-operated animals as control, deductions could be made about the function of the organ. Sham interventions can also be performed as controls when new surgical procedures are developed.\n"}
{"id": "15269444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15269444", "title": "Sodenbrunnen", "text": "Sodenbrunnen\n\nA sodenbrunnen is a sod cistern used in the saltwater marshlands of Northern Germany from the early first millennium AD to the Middle Ages to collect rain water for drinking.\n\n"}
{"id": "25282753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25282753", "title": "Strandavatnet", "text": "Strandavatnet\n\nStrandavatnet is a lake in Hol municipality, Norway. The lake covers an area of , and lies above sea level.'\nThe lake is a reservoir for the Rud hydroelectric powerstation in Hovet, Buskerud. In 1952/1953 a dam was constructed which lifted the lake level 28 meters, thus the lake varies between 950 and 978 m above sea level.\n\nThe dam in the Strandavatnet was the first rock filling (embankment) dam in Norway. You can see the dam on your left hand side from FV 50 at Myrland (the road to Raggsteindalen goes over the dam). The Hol 1 power station, in Hovet, Buskerud utilizes water from two watercourses, Urunda, where Strandavatnet, is the intake reservoir, and Votna where Varaldset is the intake reservoir. Stolsvatnet is the biggest and highest reservoir in the Votna watercourse. See figure below.\n\n"}
{"id": "53828524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53828524", "title": "Tumor-associated endothelial cell", "text": "Tumor-associated endothelial cell\n\nTumor-associated endothelial cells or tumor endothelial cells (TECs) refers to cells lining the tumor-associated blood vessels that control the passage of nutrients into surrounding tumor tissue. Across different cancer types, tumor-associated blood vessels have been discovered to differ significantly from normal blood vessels in morphology, gene expression, and functionality in ways that promote cancer progression. There has been notable interest in developing cancer therapeutics that capitalize on these abnormalities of the tumor-associated endothelium to destroy tumors.\n\nTumor endothelial cells (TECs) have been documented to demonstrate abnormal morphologic characteristics such as ragged margins and irregular cytoplasmic projections. In normal blood vessels, it is known that endothelial cells form regular monolayers with tight junctions without overlap, but TECs create disorganized and loosely connected monolayers, often branching and extending across the lumen to overlap with their neighbors. The tumor endothelium is often described as mosaic due to its aberrant expression of traditional endothelial cell markers (CD31 and CD105), supporting the existence of irregular gaps between endothelial cells. At a more macro level, beyond the observation of small intercellular openings between nearby TECs, larger gaps in the walls of tumor blood vessels have been described.\n\nMany tumors are characterized by high expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), which is a strong vasodilator. VEGF has been indicated to stimulate sprouting and tip branching in endothelial cells, leading to defective endothelial monolayers. Research supports that compression of tumor vessels by surrounding tumor cells results in mechanical tension and changes in blood flow. It has been suggested that these flow-mediated changes cause abnormal expression of transcription factors which promotes aberrant endothelial morphology, size, and differentiation.\n\nSmaller capillaries are often surrounded by supporting pericytes which help with vessel stability. Loss of pericyte growth factor (PDGFB) and its receptor on endothelial cells are molecular-level changes that can account for this abnormal loss in pericyte support. Lower quantity of pericytes surrounding the tumor-associated endothelium has been associated with blood vessel instability and leakiness.\n\nWhere these branched tumor-associated endothelial cells form small gaps in the blood vessel wall, erythrocytes often pool and form blood lakes. These cellular openings contribute to tumor vessel \"leakiness\", potentially allowing the entry and delivery of therapeutic agents to tumor sites. For many tumors, it has been discovered associated endothelial cells have significantly increased permeability.\n\nThe increased permeability of tumor-associated endothelial cells permits macromolecules to leave the blood system and directly enter the tumor interstitial space. There is also a retention effect that allows these macromolecules to stay at tumor sites due to the suppression of lymphatic infiltration. This observation has been termed the enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect and has been exploited for cancer nano-therapeutics. Unfortunately the effectiveness of this mechanism for drug nano-carriers remains inconsistent due to the heterogeneity of this EPR effect within and amongst different tumors. Tumor type, size, and location affect the nature of the surrounding vasculature and stroma and contribute to this heterogeneity in EPR effect.\n\nThe idea of tumors promoting angiogenesis, or the process of forming new blood vessels, has been around since the discovery of VEGF in 1989. The branching patterning of tumor-associated endothelial cells has been implicated in the initiation of angiogenesis. Dr. Judah Folkman played an important role in studying the role of angiogenesis in promoting tumor growth. He identified tumor's response to hypoxia as a leading contributor to angiogenesis and cancer growth.\n\nAngiogenesis was originally introduced as a Hallmark of Cancer based on assumptions that the underlying processes were similar amongst different tumor types. However, there are now multiple studies that illustrate the complexity behind these previous simple conceptions of angiogenesis, indicating that the way cancer cells interact with and co-opt new blood vessel growth varies amongst cancer types and must be studied. This must be studied in order to improve clinical design strategy and select for patients with tumors that are more likely to benefit from anti-angiogenic drugs.\n\nVarious angiogenesis inhibitors have been developed to interfere with different steps in the process. Bevacizumab (Avastin) is a monoclonal antibody that binds to VEGF, preventing the stimulation of the VEGF receptor. Sorafenib and sutinib are additional angiogenesis inhibitors that bind and block receptors on endothelial cells that have important roles in downstream pathways contributing to angiogenesis progression. An extensive amount of other compounds targeted towards halting angiogenesis are either currently in preclinical development, undergoing clinical trials, or in the process of getting approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration.\n\nImmune therapies depend heavily on the abilities of effector lymphocytes to infiltrate tumors, and the tumor endothelium is a known crucial regulator of T-cell trafficking. The tumor-associated endothelium has been found to be able to function as an immune barrier to T-cells, inhibiting the effectiveness of immune therapies. These tumor-associated endothelial cells have been found to over-express the endothelin B receptor, which suppresses T-cell adhesion and targeting to tumors upon activation by ET-1.\n\nThe vasculature can promote metastasis by capturing cancer cells at their primary sites and providing for their delivery to secondary organs. These tumor-associated endothelial cells can also release factors and supply nutrients that promote the growth of the primary tumor mass and its aggressive spread. Additionally, angiogenesis is intimately linked to metastasis, as delivery of nutrients and oxygen through blood vessels is required for invasive tumor growth and spread.\n\n"}
{"id": "35840882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35840882", "title": "Wolfgang A. Tomé", "text": "Wolfgang A. Tomé\n\nWolfgang Axel Tomé is a Physicist working in Medicine. He received his undergraduate degree in Physics from the Eberhard-Karls-Universität in Tübingen, Germany in 1986 and earned his doctorate in Mathematical physics in 1995 from the University of Florida under the guidance of John R. Klauder. He is the author of \"Path Integrals on Group manifolds\" and the co-author of Dose painting IMRT using Biological Parameters.\n\nFollowing his doctoral studies he completed a post doctoral fellowship and two-year residency in therapeutic medical physics at UF Health Shands Hospital under the direction of Jatinder R. Palta. From 1998 to 2012, he served as a faculty member in the Departments of Biomedical Engineering, Human Oncology, and Medical Physics at the University of Wisconsin, where he was tenured in 2006 and promoted to full Professor in 2009. During his time at the University of Wisconsin he collaborated closely with Thomas Rockwell Mackie, Minesh Mehta, Bhudatt R. Paliwal, and the eminent radiation biologist Jack F. Fowler and supervised the work of 16 Ph.D. students in the field of Therapeutic Medical Physics. In 2012 he was appointed as the founding Director of Medical Physics of the Institute for Onco-Physics at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and as Director of the Division of Therapeutic Medical Physics in the Department of Radiation Oncology at Montefiore Medical Center.\n\nHe currently holds appointments as Professor of Radiation Oncology and Professor of Neurology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and as Visiting Professor of Medical Physics at the University of Wisconsin and the Centre of Medical Radiation Physics of the University of Wollongong, NSW, Australia. He is the author of more than 200 published articles in various areas of medical and mathematical physics, has been a member of a number of AAPM task groups, and currently has 6 patents to his credit. In recognition of his distinguished and significant contributions to the fields of medical physics and radiation oncology he has been bestowed the distinction and title of Fellow of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (FAAPM) in 2010 and Fellow of the American Society for Radiation Oncology (FASTRO) in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "42448124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42448124", "title": "World Immunization Week", "text": "World Immunization Week\n\nWorld Immunization Week is a global public health campaign to raise awareness and increase rates of immunization against vaccine-preventable diseases around the world. It takes place each year during last week of April.\n\nImmunization can protect against 25 different infectious agents or diseases, from infancy to old age, including diphtheria, measles, pertussis, polio and tetanus. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates active immunization currently averts 2 to 3 million deaths every year. However 22.6 million infants worldwide are still missing out on basic vaccines, mostly in developing countries. Inadequate immunization coverage rates often result from limited resources, competing health priorities, poor management of health systems and inadequate surveillance. The goal of World Immunization Week is to raise public awareness of how immunization saves lives, and support people everywhere to get the vaccinations needed against deadly diseases for themselves and their children. \n\nWorld Immunization Week sprung out of the efforts taking place across different countries and regions for a week-long immunization awareness commemoration. World Immunization Week is one of eight official campaigns marked by the WHO, along with World Health Day, World Blood Donor Day, World No Tobacco Day, World Tuberculosis Day, World Malaria Day, World Hepatitis Day and World AIDS Day.\n\nThe World Health Assembly endorsed World Immunization Week during its May 2012 meeting.\nPreviously, Immunization Week activities were observed on different dates in different regions of the world. Immunization Week was observed simultaneously for the first time in 2012, with the participation of more than 180 countries and territories worldwide.\n\nEach World Immunization Week focuses on a theme. The themes have included the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2755777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2755777", "title": "Zadik–Barak–Levin syndrome", "text": "Zadik–Barak–Levin syndrome\n\nZadik–Barak–Levin syndrome (ZBLS) is a congenital disorder in humans. Presenting conditions include primary hypothyroidism, cleft palate, hypodontia, and ectodermal dysplasia. It is the result of an embryonic defect in the mesodermal-ectodermal midline development.\n"}
{"id": "10126669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10126669", "title": "Štěchovice Reservoir", "text": "Štěchovice Reservoir\n\nŠtěchovice Reservoir (in Czech \"Vodní nádrž Štěchovice\") is a dam on Vltava River built from 1937 to 1945 as the second stage of the Vltava Cascade. The dam is named after nearby village Štěchovice.\n\nThe construction started before World War 2 and because of the need for electricity resources were allocated for the project in spite of general shortage. The power station was put in action in 1943. The reservoir had flooded St John's Rapids (\"Svatojánské proudy\"), the most dangerous but romantic part of Vltava.\n\nThe main role of the reservoir is to balance the water runoff from peak-load power station at Slapy Dam and to propel two Kaplan turbines with total installed power 2 x 11.25 MW (Štěchovice I). A lock (20.1 m difference between water levels, length 118 m) handles ships with displacement up to 1,000 tons.\n\nThe reservoir is also used by the pumped-storage hydroelectric plant Štěchovice II whose upper reservoir was created on the top of hill Homole. The plant was set in operation in 1947 and closed in 1991 due to obsolescence. From 1992 to 1996 a new hydroelectric plant using the reservoirs was built. This plant uses reverse Francis turbine with power 45 MW.\n\nDuring 2002 floods the turbines of both power plants were severely damaged. After overhaul the plants were put back in production in 2004 and 2005 respectively.\n\n\n"}
