{"id": "37665564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37665564", "title": "AbbVie Inc.", "text": "AbbVie Inc.\n\nAbbVie is a publicly traded biopharmaceutical company founded in 2013. It originated as a spin-off of Abbott Laboratories.\n\nOn October 19, 2011, Abbott Laboratories announced its plan to separate into two publicly traded companies. The \"new\" Abbott Laboratories would specialize in diversified products including medical devices, diagnostic equipment and nutrition products, while AbbVie would operate as a research-based pharmaceutical manufacturer. The separation was effective January 1, 2013, and AbbVie was officially listed on the New York Stock Exchange (ABBV) on January 2, 2013.\n\nAccording to Miles White, CEO at the time, the purpose of the split was to allow markets to value the two businesses separately; White said that investors would \"benefit from two fundamentally different investment opportunities with distinct strategic profiles and business priorities.\" Some investors were concerned that the split was done to protect the value of the device business from the loss of value facing the drug division due to the imminent expiration of patents on Humira, which accounted for about half of the drug division's revenue.\n\nAs of December 2015, the company employed in excess of 28,000 globally, and provided products to individuals in more than 170 countries.\n\nIn January 2014, the company acquired ImmuVen for an undisclosed sum. On September 3, 2014, AbbVie and Infinity Pharmaceuticals announced that they had entered into a global collaboration to develop and commercialize duvelisib, Infinity's PI3K inhibitor for the treatment of patients with cancer. On the same day, AbbVie and Calico announced that they had entered into a R&D collaboration intended to discover, develop and bring to market new therapies for patients with age-related diseases including neurodegeneration and cancer. Calico (California Life Company) is an Alphabet Inc. subsidiary led by Arthur D. Levinson (former Chairman and CEO of Genentech) and Hal V. Barron (former Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer of Genentech) that is focused on aging and age-related diseases.\n\nIn October 2014, after a long negotiation, AbbVie stopped its efforts to acquire Shire, which would have been one of the largest M&A deals of that year; AbbVie had to pay a $1.6 billion breakup fee.\n\nOn March 4, 2015, AbbVie announced its agreement to acquire the oncology firm Pharmacyclics and its treatment for blood cancers, ibrutinib; AstraZeneca had also been bidding to acquire Pharmacyclics. Under the terms of the transaction, AbbVie agreed to pay $261.25 per share as a mix of cash and AbbVie equity. The acquisition valued at approximately $21 billion was completed on May 26, 2015. The Pharmacyclics name was retained, and it operates as a subsidiary of AbbVie from its previous Sunnyvale, California, headquarters. On June 3, 2015, AbbVie and Halozyme Therapeutics announced that they had entered into a global collaboration and licensing agreement to develop and commercialize products that combine AbbVie’s treatments and Halozyme’s ENHANZE drug-delivery technology, this was terminated in November 2016.\n\nAccording to the Wall Street Journal as of January 2016 ibrutinib, a specialty drug, cost US$116,600 to $155,400 a year wholesale in the United States. In spite of discounts and medical insurance, the prohibitive price causes some patients to not fill their prescriptions. AbbVie estimates global sales of the drug at $1 billion in 2016 and $5 billion in 2020.\n\nOn February 10, 2016, AbbVie and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Synlogic announced a multi-year R&D collaboration. Synlogic is a synthetic biology company built on research from the labs of James Collins and Tim Lu at MIT. As part of the collaboration, AbbVie is getting worldwide rights to Synlogic’s probiotic-based technology for treating inflammatory bowel disease, and the research teams will focus on Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. In April 2016, the company partnered with the University of Chicago to investigate a number of areas of oncology: breast, lung, prostate, colorectal and hematological cancers. In the same month the company announced it would co-commercialize Argenx's preclinical immunotherapy, ARGX-115. ARGX-115 is a first-in-class immunotherapy targeting GARP (glycoprotein A repetitions predominant), a membrane protein believed to enhance the immunosuppressive effects of T cells. The company also announced a deal to co-develop/commercialize at least one of CytomX Probody's conjugates against CD71 (transferrin receptor 1).\n\nOn 28 April 2016, the company announced it would acquire Stemcentrx for up to $9.8 billion. A day later, the company announced an expansion of a two and a half year old cystic fibrosis deal with Galapagos, potentially doubling milestone payments to $600 million.\n"}
{"id": "11263077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11263077", "title": "Abda of Hira", "text": "Abda of Hira\n\nAbda of Hira (died 680) was a monk of the Assyrian Church of the East.\n\nHe was born at Al-Hirah, the son of Hanif. He became a monk under Mar Abda of Gamre. After having taught as a disciple by Mar Babai he later lived in a cave. One of his miracle deeds was to have treated with healing oil a wound of a hunter who had been injured by a lion.\nHe preached Christianity to the Zoroastrian Persians and was said to have worked many miracles before dying in his cave in 680.\n\n"}
{"id": "357364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357364", "title": "Afonso, Prince of Portugal", "text": "Afonso, Prince of Portugal\n\nAfonso, Prince of Portugal (; 18 May 147513 July 1491) was the heir apparent to the throne of Portugal. He was born in Lisbon, Portugal, and died in a horse-riding accident on the banks of the river Tagus.\n\nAfonso, named after his grandfather, King Afonso V, was the only son King John II and Eleanor of Viseu. The king was very fond of him and named the island of Príncipe after him (\"príncipe\" meaning \"prince\" in the Portuguese language).\n\nAfonso's grandfather Afonso V of Portugal had sided with Joanna la Beltraneja who was a rival for the throne of Castile against her half-aunt, Queen Isabella I of Castile. She was never considered legitimate and, when the king was dying, no one took her as a serious contender for the crown. Isabella was due to inherit the crown, but Afonso V was keen to interfere with the succession in Castile. In 1475 he married his niece Joanna, whom he considered the legitimate heir to the crown. Since her adulteress mother was his own sister, Afonso V had not only ambition, but the family honour to protect. He proclaimed himself King of Castile and León and prepared to defend his wife's rights.\n\nKing Ferdinand and Isabella, however, won the war of succession and, as part of the Treaty of Alcáçovas, signed in 1479, it was agreed that their eldest daughter Isabella would marry Afonso. Isabella was also to come with a very large dowry that in practice represented the war compensation obtained by Portugal. In 1480, Prince Afonso, who at that time was five years old, went to live in the town of Moura with his maternal grandmother, Beatrice. In the early months of the following year, his future wife, the ten-year-old Isabella, joined him and lived there for about two years.\n\nThe wedding, by proxy, took place ten years later in the spring of 1490 in Seville. On 19 November of that year, Isabella arrived in Badajoz where she was welcomed by Afonso's uncle, Manuel, the future King Manuel I of Portugal, whom she would eventually marry six years after her husband's death. Afonso and Isabella were reunited in Elvas on 22 November and, on the following day, Isabella met her mother-in-law, Queen Eleanor, in the Convento do Espinheiro in Évora, where the court had gathered to ratify the marriage that had been celebrated earlier in Seville.\n\nThis wedding had the blessings of both Kingdoms. The queen of Castile, whose mother and nurse were Portuguese, wanted to strengthen the ties with Portugal, and, at the same time, this would allow her to \"keep an eye on and control the steps of her eternal rival, Joanna la Beltraneja\", through her daughter.\n\nIn July 1491, the royal family was spending the summer in the Santarém District near the banks of the River Tagus. King John invited his son to swim with him. The young prince refused the invitation at first, but seeing that his father wanted him to keep him company, decided to join him. According to the chronicle of Rui de Pina:\nAccording to the same author, when Afonso's mother heard the news of the accident, stricken with grief, she ran, riding on a mule, accompanied by her daughter-in-law, to be with her son who was lying on the ground. Nothing could be done. As a sign of mourning, his parents decided to dress in black. The funeral rites were held at Batalha Monastery and Prince Afonso was buried there, also the resting place of his grandfather King Afonso V. His widow, Infanta Isabella, returned to Castile and even before the siege of Granada was lifted, she joined her parents in Íllora. The Catholic Monarchs abandoned the camp temporarily to be with their daughter and to console her.\n\nKing John tried without success until the end of his life to legitimize the ten-year-old Jorge, Duke of Coimbra, his illegitimate son. His wife, Queen Eleanor, was adamantly against having the king's bastard son occupy the throne, an opinion shared by the Catholic Monarchs, who, like Queen Eleanor, supported the claims of the Duke of Beja, Eleanor's brother, as the heir to the throne. In 1494, King John, whose health had worsened, executed his last will in which named his cousin and brother-in-law, the Duke of Beja, his successor. King John died in October 1495 and, in 1497, his successor, the Duke of Beja, now King Manuel I of Portugal married Isabella, Prince Afonso's widow.\n\n"}
{"id": "305850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305850", "title": "Alexey Chervonenkis", "text": "Alexey Chervonenkis\n\nAlexey Yakovlevich Chervonenkis (; 7 September 1938 – 22 September 2014) was a Soviet and Russian mathematician, and, with Vladimir Vapnik, was one of the main developers of the Vapnik–Chervonenkis theory, also known as the \"fundamental theory of learning\" an important part of computational learning theory. Chervonenkis held joint appointments with the Russian Academy of Sciences and Royal Holloway, University of London.\n\nAlexey Chervonenkis got lost in Losiny Ostrov National Park on 22 September 2014, and later during a search operation was found dead near Mytishchi, a suburb of Moscow. He had died of hypothermia.\n\n"}
{"id": "11635760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11635760", "title": "Amylin Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Amylin Pharmaceuticals\n\nAmylin Pharmaceuticals was a biopharmaceutical company based in San Diego, CA, that was founded in 1987. The company was engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of drug candidates for the treatment of diabetes, obesity and other diseases. Amylin produced three drugs: Symlin (pramlintide acetate), Byetta (exenatide) and Bydureon (exenatide extended-release).\n\nIn 1987, Amylin Pharmaceuticals was co-founded by Howard E. Greene Jr., former CEO of San Diego biotech pioneer Hybridtech, to develop a treatment for diabetes from a synthetic analog of amylin. Amylin was discovered by researchers at Oxford University earlier that year. Greene served as CEO from 1987 to 1996. Amylin completed its IPO in 1992.\n\nAmylin in its natural form is sticky—it clumps on needles and forms little rocks in the pancreas. Researchers first had to create a synthetic version that they could work with more easily and reliably. The inventors at Amylin Pharmaceuticals—Laura Gaeta, Howard Jones and Elisabeth Albrecht—altered amino acids in the molecule and created a new drug named pramlintide. In 1995, Amylin Pharmactietucals signed an agreement with Johnson & Johnson's LifeScan division to further develop pramlintide. A Phase II study made public in January 1997 showed pramlintide was safe to mix with leading short-acting and intermediate-acting commercial insulin products, with preliminary results suggesting it might improve glucose control. Initial Phase III trial results released in August 1997 showed pramlintide did show statistically significant results for type 1 (juvenile-onset) diabetes, helping modestly to improve glucose control without increasing the risk of hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) while also improving weight and cholesterol levels. But adult-onset type 2 diabetes affects far more people than type 1, and pramlintide showed significant benefits only at 6 months but not after 12 months. In March 1998, seven months before the next trial data were due, J&J discontinued its partnership with Amylin.\n\nJoseph C. Cook, Jr., a 28-year veteran at Eli Lilly & Co. and an Amylin board member since 1994, came out of retirement in 1998 to help the company recover its footing, taking the title of chief executive officer. Cook reduced the company's workforce by 75 percent to conserve cash and raised capital from investors to keep Symlin (pramlintide's commercial name) moving through the regulatory pipeline.\n\nIn October 2001, Amylin received an approvable letter for Symlin from the FDA, requiring additional clinical data addressing concerns of severe hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetics for approval. In December 2003, the FDA issued a second approvable letter requesting further clinical data to identify a patient population and method of use for Symlin where there is no increased risk of significant hypoglycemia or where there is an added benefit that clearly counterbalances any potential for increases in episodes of hypoglycemia. In March 2005, Symlin was approved by the FDA for use in diabetics who have difficulty maintaining glycemic control.\n\nIn October 1996, Dr. John Eng licensed his discovery, exendin-4 to Amylin. Dr. Eng discovered exendin-4 in the venom of a Gila monster. Exendin-4 is similar to the human gut hormone GLP-1, which is responsible for regulating insulin and glucagon release. Unlike human GLP-1, however, exendin-4 doesn’t degrade for hours, making it a much better candidate for a drug. Amylin developed exenatide, a synthetic version of exendin-4. In 2002, Eli Lilly signed an agreement with Amylin for $325 million to partner in development of exenatide. In May 2005, Byetta (commercial name for exenatide) was approved in the United States.\n\nIn July 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb announced it would acquire Amylin Pharmaceuticals for $5.3 billion. As part of the acquisition, AstraZeneca made a $3.4 billion cash payment to make Amylin a wholly owned subsidiary within the existing BMS/AZ joint venture in diabetes. In April 2013, Bristol-Myers Squibb announced it would close Amylin's San Diego operations by the end of 2014 and merge the Amylin manufacturing facility in West Chester, Ohio and all field-based sales personnel into Bristol-Myers Squibb operations.\n\nIn December 2013, AstraZeneca purchased the Bristol-Myers Squibb share of the diabetes joint venture, and as a result, became the sole owner of all former Amylin products and business, including the manufacturing facility in West Chester, Ohio.\n\nOn February 4, 2014, the U.S. FDA approved Myalept (metreleptin), an analog of human leptin, as replacement therapy to treat the complications of leptin deficiency, in addition to diet, in patients with congenital generalized or acquired generalized lipodystrophy. Metraleptin was originally developed at Amylin Pharmaceuticals. In November 2014, Aegerion Pharmaceuticals made a $325 million cash payment to AstraZeneca to acquire and commercialize metreleptin.\n"}
{"id": "51812383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51812383", "title": "André d'Arbelles", "text": "André d'Arbelles\n\nAndré d'Arbelles, (21 April 1767 – 28 September 1825) was an 18th–19th-century French journalist and high-ranking official.\n\nThe brother of , bishop of Quimper, he studied in Lyon and soon moved to Paris where he was Secretary of count Stanislas de Clermont-Tonnerre.\n\nAnother of his brothers, a notary in Lyon, having been compromised by papers found in the king's apartments after the 10 August 1792, was decreed arrested by the National Convention on December 2 of that year. He first escaped the pursuit of his enemies; but having been taken after the revolt of Lyon against the National Convention, he was brought to the revolutionary committee established in this city, sentenced to death and executed in January 1794; he was 41 years old, and also born in Montluel.\n\nAndré emigrated in 1792, and having no other resources, he entered as a mere cavalier in the Armée des Émigrés, where he was known under the name \"M. de Montluel\" (from the name of the town where he was born), made the campaign of that year 1792, then in the Austrian regiment of the \"Dragons de Latour\", with which he made several campaigns.\n\nReturning to Paris in 1798, he was employed in various literary and political works by Talleyrand, the Foreign Minister, and participated in the writing of the \"Messager du Soir\", where he had as collaborator, and to that of the \"Argus\", an English newspaper which was printed in Paris, for which Bertrand Barère de Vieuzac and Goldsmitz also worked, at the expense of the ministry.\n\nThe author of \"Mémoires d'un homme d'État\" refers to him as one of the agents who, with MM. de Montrond and de Sainte-Foy, asked the envoys of America, from Talleyrand, a sum of money for a successful negotiation.\n\nAndré long worked in the composition of different circumstances brochures, which were published without the author's name, and sometimes even without a printer name.\n\nAppointed historiographer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1808, he was charged in that capacity to publish various writings, which aimed to advocate the policy of Napoleon. It was about this time that he changed once again his name for \"d'Arbelles\".\n\nIn 1814 he took a large part in the Bourbons First Restoration and for that, seconded of all his ways Talleyrand who had him receive the Legion d'honneur, and destined him to greater favors when Napoleon's return changed so many projects.\n\nAndré d'Arbelles refused to swear allegiance and lost his job; but immediately after the second return of Louis XVIII, he was appointed Prefect of Mayenne on 17 July 1815 and in August Master of Requests at the Conseil d'État in extraordinary service. It was then that he openly took the title of \"Marquis d'Arbelle\" which he abandoned a little later.\n\nAfter the royal decree of September 5, 1815, so fatal to the royalist party, André d'Arbelles was dismissed from his prefecture in 1817 as too royalist. Reinstated in his prefectural office in January 1823, he was then called to the Prefecture de la Sarthe.\nIt is in these functions that he died in Le Mans by a deplorable accident, of which Aimé Marie Gaspard de Clermont-Tonnerre was unwittingly the cause. This minister having gone to Le Mans to conduct an inspection, the prefect hastened to meet him; but when he approached the ministerial cortege he was trampled by a runaway horse. He died a few hours after the accident, much regretted by the whole department he administered.\n\n\nAccording to new information, says the author of the \"Dictionnaire des Anonymes\", it seems that these various books were written by Mr. Lesur; but some of the information does not allow us to doubt that Andre d'Arbelles composed a great many deal of them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41757248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41757248", "title": "Animal magnetism", "text": "Animal magnetism\n\nAnimal magnetism, also known as \"mesmerism\", was the name given by German doctor Franz Mesmer in the 18th century to what he believed to be an invisible natural force (\"Lebensmagnetismus\") possessed by all living things, including humans, animals, and vegetables. He believed that the force could have physical effects, including healing, and he tried persistently but without success to achieve scientific recognition of his ideas.\n\nThe vitalist theory attracted numerous followers in Europe and the United States and was popular into the 19th century. Practitioners were often known as magnetizers rather than mesmerists. It was an important specialty in medicine for about 75 years from its beginnings in 1779, and continued to have some influence for another 50 years. Hundreds of books were written on the subject between 1766 and 1925, but it is almost entirely forgotten today. Mesmerism is still practised as a form of alternative medicine in some countries, but magnetic practices are not recognized as part of medical science.\n\nThe terms \"magnetizer\" and \"mesmerizer\" have been applied to people who study and practice animal magnetism. These terms have been distinguished from \"mesmerist\" and \"magnetist\", which are regarded as denoting those who study animal magnetism without being practitioners; and from \"hypnotist\", someone who practises hypnosis.\n\nThe etymology of the word \"magnetizer\" comes from the French \"magnetiseur\" (\"practicing the methods of mesmerism\"), which in turn is derived from the French verb \"magnetiser\". The term refers to an individual who has the power to manipulate the \"magnetic fluid\" with effects upon other people present that were regarded as analogous to magnetic effects. This sense of the term is found, for example, in the expression of Antoine Joseph Gorsas: \"The magnetizer is the imam of vital energy\".\n\nA tendency emerged amongst British magnetizers to call their clinical techniques \"mesmerism\"; they wanted to distance themselves from the theoretical orientation of animal magnetism that was based on the concept of \"magnetic fluid\". At the time, some magnetizers attempted to channel what they thought was a magnetic \"fluid\", and sometimes they attempted this with a \"laying on of hands\". Reported effects included various feelings: intense heat, trembling, trances, and seizures.\n\nMany practitioners took a scientific approach, such as Joseph Philippe François Deleuze (1753–1835), a French physician, anatomist, gynecologist, and physicist. One of his pupils was Théodore Léger (1799–1853), who wrote that the label \"mesmerism\" was \"most improper\". (Léger moved to Texas around 1836).\n\nNoting that, by 1846, the term \"galvanism\" had been replaced by \"electricity\", Léger wrote that year:\nIn 1784 a French Royal Commission appointed by Louis XVI studied Mesmer's magnetic fluid theory to try to establish it by scientific evidence. The commission included Majault, Benjamin Franklin, Jean Sylvain Bailly, J. B. Le Roy, Sallin, Jean Darcet, de Borey, Joseph-Ignace Guillotin, Antoine Lavoisier, Poissonnier, Caille, Mauduyt de la Varenne, Andry, and de Jussieu.\n\nWhilst the commission agreed that the cures claimed by Mesmer were indeed cures, it also concluded there was no evidence of the existence of his \"magnetic fluid\", and that its effects derived from either the imaginations of its subjects or charlatanry.\n\nA second investigating committee, appointed by a majority vote in 1826 in The Royal Academy of Medicine in Paris, studied the effects and clinical potentials of the mesmeric procedure - without trying to establish the physical nature of any magnetic fluidum. The report says:\n\nAmong the conclusions were:\n\nAbbé Faria was one of the disciples of Franz Anton Mesmer who continued with Mesmer's work following the conclusions of the Royal Commission. In the early 19th century, Abbé Faria is said to have introduced oriental hypnosis to Paris and to have conducted experiments to prove that \"no special force was necessary for the production of the mesmeric phenomena such as the trance, but that the determining cause lay within the subject himself\"—in other words, that it worked purely by the power of suggestion.\n\nHypnotism, a designation coined by the Scottish surgeon, James Braid, originates in Braid's response to an 1841 exhibition of \"animal magnetism\", by Charles Lafontaine, in Manchester. Writing in 1851, Braid was adamant that, in the absence of the sorts of \"higher phenomena\" reportedly produced by the mesmerists,\nand in contra-distinction to the \"Transcendental\" [i.e., \"metaphysical\"] \"Mesmerism\" of the Mesmerists … [allegedly] induced through the transmission of an occult influence from [the body of the operator to that of the subject,] \"Hypnotism\", [by which] I mean a peculiar condition of the nervous system, into which it can be thrown by artificial contrivance … [a theoretical position that is entirely] consistent with generally admitted principles in physiological and\npsychological science [would] therefore [be most aptly] designated \"Rational Mesmerism\".\n\nA 1791 London publication explains Mesmer's theory of the vital fluid :\n\nModern philosophy has admitted a plenum or universal principle of fluid matter, which occupies all space; and that as all bodies moving in the world, abound with pores, this fluid matter introduces itself through the interstices and returns backwards and forwards, flowing through one body by the currents which issue therefrom to another, as in a magnet, which produces that phenomenon which we call Animal Magnetism. This fluid consists of fire, air and spirit, and like all other fluids tends to an equilibrium, therefore it is easy to conceive how the efforts which the bodies make towards each other produce animal electricity, which in fact is no more than the effect produced between two bodies, one of which has more motion than the other; a phenomenon serving to prove that the body which has most motion communicates it to the other, until the medium of motion becomes an equilibrium between the two bodies, and then this equality of motion produces animal electricity.\n\nAccording to an anonymous writer of a series of letters published by editor John Pearson in 1790, animal magnetism can cause a wide range of effects ranging from vomiting to what is termed the \"crisis\". The purpose of the treatment (inducing the \"crisis\") was to shock the body into convulsion in order to remove obstructions in the humoral system that were causing sicknesses. Furthermore, this anonymous supporter of the animal magnetism theory purported that the \"crisis\" created two effects: first, a state in which the \"[individual who is] completely reduced under Magnetic influence, although he should seem to be possessed of his senses, yet he ceases to be an accountable creature\", and a second \"remarkable\" state, which would be \"conferred upon the [magnetized] subject … [namely] that of perfect and unobstructed vision … in other words, all opacity is removed, and every object becomes luminous and transparent\". A patient under crisis was believed to be able to see through the body and find the cause of illness, either in themselves or in other patients.\n\nThe Marquis of Puységur's miraculous healing of a young man named Victor in 1784 was attributed to, and used as evidence in support of, this \"crisis\" treatment. The Marquis was allegedly able to hypnotize Victor and, while hypnotized, Victor was said to have been able to speak articulately and diagnose his own sickness.\n\nJacob Melo discusses in his books some mechanisms by which the perceived effects of animal magnetism have been claimed to operate.\n\nThe study of animal magnetism spurred the creation of the Societies of Harmony in France, where members paid to join and learn the practice of magnetism. Doctor John Bell was a member of the Philosophical Harmonic Society of Paris, and was certified by the society to lecture and teach on animal magnetism in England. The existence of the societies transformed animal magnetism into a secretive art, where its practitioners and lecturers did not reveal the techniques of the practice based on the society members that have paid for instruction, veiling the idea that it was unfair to reveal the practice to others for free. Although the heightened secrecy of the practice contributed to the skepticism about it, many supporters and practitioners of animal magnetism touted the ease and possibility for everyone to acquire the skills to perform its techniques.\n\nPopularization of animal magnetism was denounced and ridiculed by newspaper journals and theatre during the Romantic Era. Many deemed animal magnetism to be nothing more than a theatrical falsity or quackery. In a 1790 publication, an editor presented a series of letters written by an avid supporter of animal magnetism and included his own thoughts in an appendix stating: \n“No fanatics ever divulged notions more wild and extravagant; no impudent empiric ever retailed promises more preposterous, or histories of cures more devoid of reality, than the tribe of magnetisers.”\n\nThe novelist and playwrighter Elizabeth Inchbald wrote the farce \"Animal Magnetism\" in the late 1780s. The plot revolved around multiple love triangles and the absurdity of animal magnetism. The following passage mocks the medical prowess of those qualified only as mesmerists:\n\nDoctor: They have refused to grant me a diploma—forbid me to practice as a physician, and all because I don't know a parcel of insignificant words; but exercise my profession according to the rules of reason and nature; Is it not natural to die, then if a dozen or two of my patients have died under my hands, is not that natural? …\nAlthough the doctor's obsession with the use of animal magnetism, not merely to cure but to force his ward to fall in love with him, made for a humorous storyline, Inchbald’s light-hearted play commented on what society perceived as threats posed by the practice.\n\nDe Mainanduc brought animal magnetism to England in 1787 and promulgated it into the social arena. In 1785, he had published proposals to the ladies of Britain to establish a \"hygean society\" or society of health, by which they would pay to join and enjoy his treatments. As both popularity and skepticism increased, many became convinced that animal magnetism could lead to sexual exploitation of women. Not only did the practice involve close personal contact via the waving of hands over the body, but people were concerned that the animal magnetists could hypnotize women and direct them at will.\n\nThe French revolution catalyzed existing internal political friction in Britain in the 1790s; a few political radicals used animal magnetism as more than just a moral threat but also a political threat. Among many lectures warning society against government oppression, Samuel Taylor Coleridge wrote: \n\nWilliam Pitt, the great political Animal Magnetist, ... has most foully worked on the diseased fancy of Englishmen ... thrown the nation into a feverish slumber, and is now bringing it to a crisis which may convulse mortality!\n\nIn his article \"Under the Influence: Mesmerism in England\", Roy Porter notes that James Tilly Matthews suggested that the French were infiltrating England via animal magnetism. Matthews believed that \"magnetic spies\" would invade England and bring it under subjection by transmitting waves of animal magnetism to subdue the government and people. Such an invasion from foreign influences was perceived as a radical threat.\n\nToday, some scholars believe mesmerism to share a concept of life force or energy with such Asian practices as \"reiki\" and \"qigong\". However, the practical and theoretical positions of such practices are on whole substantially different from those of mesmerism.\n\nDuring the Romantic period, mesmerism produced enthusiasm and inspired horror in the spiritual and religious context. Though discredited as a credible medical practice by many, mesmerism created a venue for spiritual healing. Some animal magnetists advertised their practices by stressing the \"spiritual rather than physical benefits to be gained from animal magnetism\" and were able to gather a good clientele from among the spiritually inspired population.\n\nSome researchers, including Johann Peter Lange and Allan Kardec, suggested that Jesus was the greatest of all magnetizers, and that the source of his miracles was animal magnetism. Other writers, such as John Campbell Colquhoun and Mary Baker Eddy, denounced the comparison. Mary Baker Eddy went so far as to claim animal magnetism \"lead to moral and to physical death.\"\n\nSporadic research into animal magnetism was conducted in the 20th century, and the results published; for example, Bernard Grad wrote a number of papers related to his observations of \"a single, reputed healer, [Hungarian] Oskar Estebany\" on the subject.\n\nIn the Classical era of animal magnetism, the late 17th century to the mid-19th century, there were professional magnetizers, whose techniques were described by authors of the time as particularly effective. Their method was to spend prolonged periods \"magnetizing\" their customers directly or through \"mesmeric magnets\". It was observed that in some conditions, certain mesmerizers were more likely to achieve the result than others, regardless of their degree of knowledge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7973164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7973164", "title": "Anomalous experiences", "text": "Anomalous experiences\n\nAnomalous experiences, such as so-called benign hallucinations, may occur in a person in a state of good mental and physical health, even in the apparent absence of a transient trigger factor such as fatigue, intoxication or sensory deprivation.\n\nThe evidence for this statement has been accumulating for more than a century. Studies of benign hallucinatory experiences go back to 1886 and the early work of the Society for Psychical Research, which suggested approximately 10% of the population had experienced at least one hallucinatory episode in the course of their life. More recent studies have validated these findings; the precise incidence found varies with the nature of the episode and the criteria of \"hallucination\" adopted, but the basic finding is now well-supported.\n\nOf particular interest, for reasons to be discussed below, are those anomalous experiences which are characterised by extreme perceptual realism.\n\nA common type of anomalous experience is the apparitional experience, which may be defined as one in which a subject seems to perceive some person or thing that is not physically present. Self-selected samples tend to report a predominance of human figures, but apparitions of animals, and even objects are also reported. Notably, the majority of the human figures reported in such samples are not recognised by the subject, and of those who are, not all are of deceased persons; apparitions of living persons have also been reported.\n\nOut-of-body experiences (OBEs) have become to some extent conflated in the public mind with the concept of the near-death experience. However, the evidence suggests that the majority of out-of-body experiences do not occur near death, but in conditions of either very high or very low arousal. McCreery has suggested that this latter paradox may be explained by reference to the fact that sleep may be approached, not only by the conventional route of low arousal and deafferentation, but also by the less familiar route of extreme stress and hyper-arousal. On this model OBEs represent the intrusion of Stage 1 sleep processes into waking consciousness.\n\nOBEs can be regarded as hallucinatory in the sense that they are perceptual or quasi-perceptual experiences in which by definition the ostensible viewpoint is not coincident with the physical body of the subject. Therefore, the normal sensory input, if any, that the subject is receiving during the experience cannot correspond exactly to the perceptual representation of the world in the subject's consciousness.\n\nAs with hallucinatory experiences in general, attempts to survey samples of the general population have suggested that such experiences are relatively common, incidence figures of between 15 and 25 percent being commonly reported. The variation is presumably to be accounted for by the different types of populations sampled and the different criteria of ‘out-of-body experience’ used.\n\nA dream has been defined by some (e.g. \"Encyclopædia Britannica\") as a hallucinatory experience during sleep. \n\nA lucid dream may be defined as one in which the dreamer is aware that he or she is asleep and dreaming. The term ‘lucid dream’ was first used by the Dutch physician Frederik van Eeden, who studied his own dreams of this type. The word ‘lucid’ refers to the fact that the subject has achieved insight into his or her condition, rather than the perceptual quality of the experience. Nevertheless, it is one of the features of lucid dreams that they can have an extremely high quality of perceptual realism, to the extent that the dreamer may spend time examining and admiring the perceptual environment and the way it appears to imitate that of waking life.\n\nLucid dreams by definition occur during sleep, but they may be regarded as hallucinatory experiences in the same way as non-lucid dreams of a vivid perceptual nature may be regarded as hallucinatory, that is they are examples of 'an experience having the character of sense perception, but without relevant or adequate sensory stimulation […]' \n\nA false awakening is one in which the subject believes he/she has woken up, whether from a lucid or a non-lucid dream, but is in fact still asleep. Sometimes the experience is so realistic perceptually (the sleeper seeming to wake in his or her own bedroom, for example) that insight is not achieved at once, or even until the dreamer really wakes up and realises that what has occurred was hallucinatory. Such experiences seem particularly liable to occur to those who deliberately cultivate lucid dreams. However, they may also occur spontaneously and be associated with the experience of sleep paralysis.\n\nPsychotic-like symptoms, such as hallucinations and unusual perceptual experience, involve gross alterations in the experience of reality. Normal perception is substantially constructive and what we perceive is strongly influenced by our prior experiences and expectancies. Healthy individuals prone to hallucinations, or scoring highly on psychometric measures of positive schizotypy, tend to show a bias toward reporting stimuli that did not occur under perceptually ambiguous experimental conditions. During visual detection of fast-moving words, undergraduate students scoring highly on positive schizotypy had significantly high rates of false perceptions of words (i.e. reported seeing words that were not included in the experimental trials). Positive schizotypal symptoms in healthy adults seem to predict false perceptions in laboratory tasks and certain environmental parameters such as perceptual load and frequency of visual targets are critical in the generation of false perceptions. When detection of events becomes either effortless or cognitively demanding, generation of such biases can be prevented.\n\nAuditory hallucinations, and in particular the hearing of a voice, are thought of as particularly characteristic of people suffering from schizophrenia. However, normal subjects also report auditory hallucinations to a surprising extent. For example, Bentall and Slade found that as many as 15.4% of a population of 150 male students were prepared to endorse the statement ‘In the past I have had the experience of hearing a person’s voice and then found that no one was there’. They add: ‘[…]no less than 17.5% of the [subjects] were prepared to score the item “I often hear a voice speaking my thoughts aloud” as “Certainly Applies”. This latter item is usually regarded as a first-rank symptom of schizophrenia[…]’\n\nGreen and McCreery found that 14% of their 1800 self-selected subjects reported a purely auditory hallucination, and of these nearly half involved the hearing of articulate or inarticulate human speech sounds. An example of the former would be the case of an engineer facing a difficult professional decision, who, while sitting in a cinema, heard a voice saying, ‘loudly and distinctly’: ‘You can’t do it, you know’. He adds: ‘It was so clear and resonant that I turned and looked at my companion who was gazing placidly at the screen[…] I was amazed and somewhat relieved when it became apparent that I was the only person who had heard anything.’\n\nThis case would be an example of what Posey and Losch call ‘hearing a comforting or advising voice that is not perceived as being one’s own thoughts’. They estimated that approximately 10% of their population of 375 American college students had this type of experience.\n\nIt has been suggested that auditory hallucinations are affected by culture, to the extent that when American subjects were examined they reported hearing stern authoritarian voices with violent or prohibitive suggestions, whereas voices heard in India and Africa tended to be playful and collaborative instead.\n\nThis is a paradoxical experience in which the person has a strong feeling of the presence of another person, sometimes recognised, sometimes unrecognised, but without any apparently justifying sensory stimulus.\n\nThe nineteenth-century American psychologist and philosopher William James described the experience thus: 'From the way in which this experience is spoken of by those who have had it, it would appear to be an extremely definite and positive state of mind, coupled with a belief in the reality of its object quite as strong as any direct sensation ever gives. And yet no sensation seems to be connected with it at all... The phenomenon would seem to be due to a pure conception becoming saturated with the sort of stinging urgency which ordinarily only sensations bring.'*\n\nThe following is an example of this type of experience: ‘My husband died in June 1945, and 26 years afterwards when I was at Church, I felt him standing beside me during the singing of a hymn. I felt I would see him if I turned my head. The feeling was so strong I was reduced to tears. I had not been thinking of him before I felt his presence. I had not had this feeling before that day, neither has it happened since then.’\n\nExperiences of this kind appear to meet all but one of the normal criteria of hallucination. For example, Slade and Bentall proposed the following working definition of a hallucination: ‘Any percept-like experience which (a) occurs in the absence of an appropriate stimulus, (b) has the full force or impact of the corresponding actual (real) perception, and (c) is not amenable to direct and voluntary control by the experiencer.’ \nThe experience quoted above certainly meets the second and third of these three criteria. One might add that the ‘presence’ in such a case is experienced as located in a definite position in external physical space. In this respect it may be said to be more hallucinatory than, for example, some hypnagogic imagery, which may be experienced as external to the subject but located in a mental ‘space’ of its own. Other explanations for this phenomenon were discussed by the psychologist Graham Reed who wrote that such experiences may involve illusion, misinterpretation or suggestion. He noted that the experiences are usually reported at moments of fatigue, stress, or during the night.\n\nThe experience of sensing the presence of a deceased loved one is a commonly reported phenomenon in bereavement. It can take the form of a clearly sensory impression or can involve a quasi-sensory 'feeling' of presence. Rees conducted a study of 293 widowed people living in a particular area of mid-Wales. He found that 14% of those interviewed reported having had a visual hallucination of their deceased spouse, 13.3% an auditory one and 2.7% a tactile one. These categories overlapped to some extent as some people reported a hallucinatory experience in more than one modality. Of interest in light of the previous heading was the fact that 46.7% of the sample reported experiencing the presence of the deceased spouse. Other studies have similarly reported a frequency of approximately 50% in the bereaved population.\n\nSensing the presence of the deceased may be a cross-cultural phenomenon that is, however, interpreted differently depending on the cultural context in which it occurs. For example, one of the earliest studies of the phenomenon published in a Western peer-reviewed journal investigated the grief experiences of Japanese widows and found that 90% of them reported to have sensed the deceased. It was observed that, in contrast to Western interpretations, the widows were not concerned about their sanity and made sense of the experience in religious terms.\n\nIn the Western world, much of the bereavement literature of the 20th century had been influenced by psychoanalytic thinking and viewed these experiences as a form of denial, in the tradition of Freud's interpretation in \"Mourning and Melancholia\" of the bereaved person as 'clinging to the object through the medium of a hallucinatory wishful psychosis'. In recent decades, building on cross-cultural evidence about the adaptiveness of such experiences, the continuing bonds perspective as originated by Klass et al. (1996) has suggested that such experiences can be seen as normal and potentially adaptive in a Western context too. Since then, a number of qualitative studies have been published, describing the mainly beneficial effects of these experiences, especially when they are made sense of in spiritual or religious ways While most of these experiences tend to be reported as comforting to the perceiver, a small percentage of people have reported disturbing experiences, and there is ongoing research, for example by Field and others, to determine when continuing bonds experiences serve adjustment to bereavement and when they may be detrimental.\n\nThe main importance of anomalous experiences such as benign hallucinations to theoretical psychology lies in their relevance to the debate between the disease model versus the dimensional model of psychosis. According to the disease model, psychotic states such as those associated with schizophrenia and manic-depression, represent symptoms of an underlying disease process, which is dichotomous in nature; i.e. a given subject either does or does not have the disease, just as a person either does or does not have a physical disease such as tuberculosis. According to the dimensional model, by contrast, the population at large is ranged along a normally distributed continuum or dimension, which has been variously labelled as psychoticism (H.J.Eysenck), schizotypy (Gordon Claridge) or psychosis-proneness.\n\nThe occurrence of spontaneous hallucinatory experiences in persons who are enjoying good physical health at the time, and who are not drugged or in other unusual physical states of a transient nature such as extreme fatigue, would appear to provide support for the dimensional model. The alternative to this view requires one to posit some hidden or latent disease process, of which such experiences are a symptom or precursor, an explanation which would appear to beg the question.\n\nThe \"argument from hallucination\" has traditionally been one of those used by proponents of the philosophical theory of representationalism against direct realism. Representationalism holds that when perceiving the world we are not in direct contact with it, as common sense suggests, but only in direct contact with a representation of the world in consciousness. That representation may be a more or less accurate one depending on our circumstances, the state of our health, and so on. Direct realism, on the other hand, holds that the common sense or unthinking view of perception is correct, and that when perceiving the world we should be regarded as in direct contact with it, unmediated by any representation in consciousness.\n\nClearly, during an apparitional experience, for example, the correspondence between how the subject is perceiving the world and how the world really is at that moment is distinctly imperfect. At the same time the experience may present itself to the subject as indistinguishable from normal perception. McCreery has argued that such empirical phenomena strengthen the case for representationalism as against direct realism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856571", "title": "Backyard breeder", "text": "Backyard breeder\n\nA backyard breeder is an amateur animal breeder whose breeding is considered substandard, with little or misguided effort towards ethical, selective breeding. Unlike puppy mills and other animal mill operations, backyard breeders breed on a small scale, usually at home with their own pets (hence the \"backyard\" description), and may be motivated by things other than monetary profit, such as curiosity, to gain new pets, or to show children \"the miracle of birth\".\n\nA backyard breeder is often a substandard breeders of dogs and horses, and the term is used in this sense by the Animal Welfare community, The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), larger established breeders and breed clubs in contrast to the more positive term, \"reputable breeder\" that describes operations that use responsible methodology and practices.\n\nIt implies either or both of home breeding for non-commercial reasons or a for-profit small commercial operation that does not adhere to good breeding, care and sale practices. Larger commercial operations of a similar type that breed dogs are usually termed a \"puppy mill\" (especially in North America) or \"puppy farm\". However, as large kennels usually require licensing, many puppy mills are licensed with the USDA.\n\nMany small breeders resent the term and its use. Some do so because they assert that they run small but high-quality \"boutique\" operations. Others argue that their unregistered animals are desirable as companion animals and economical for ordinary people to purchase. Both groups deny that they contribute to low quality within the registered breed or produce unwanted animals.\n\nThis type of breeder is usually regarded by the Animal Welfare, ASPCA, and other groups as likely to exhibit one or more of the following characteristics:\n\nWith horses, the USA horse slaughter issue is closely linked to backyard breeding, as many poorly bred, unregistered horses have no value other than to horsemeat buyers.\n\nThere are campaigns to reduce or eliminate this type of breeding in several countries as well as video campaigns by groups like ASPCA that emphasize the importance of understanding the responsibilities associated with owning an animal. The primary concern of the Animal Welfare community is that this type of breeding is the major source of pet animals and that overproduction has led to overpopulation and hence to welfare issues and the putting down of animals for no other reason than the lack of suitable home. The glamorization of Chihuahuas, which some claim has been generated by Hollywood, has had devastating outcomes for dogs and their adopted owners. Specifically, dog owners like Paris Hilton and commercial-star Gidget the Taco Bell chihuahua as well as films like Beverly Hills Chihuahua have been directly cited as blameworthy. Most dog breed societies and Kennel Clubs have similar concerns but place rather more stress on issues relating to breed standardization and quality.\n\nThere are many animal adoption alternatives that potential pet owners can consider, including animal shelters and the umbrella organization The Shelter Pet Project, animal rescue groups, online organizations such as Petfinder that directly connect prospective adopters with available animals, and print media such as local newspapers).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50516736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50516736", "title": "Blair Witch (film)", "text": "Blair Witch (film)\n\nBlair Witch is a 2016 American supernatural horror film directed by Adam Wingard and written by Simon Barrett. It is the third official film in the \"Blair Witch\" series and a direct sequel to the 1999 film \"The Blair Witch Project\", ignoring the events of its 2000 follow-up film \"\", given the events of that film being a film within a film. \"Blair Witch\" stars James Allen McCune, Callie Hernandez, Brandon Scott, Valorie Curry, Corbin Reid and Wes Robinson. The film, shot in a found footage style, follows a group of college students and their local guides who venture into the Black Hills Forest in Maryland to uncover the mysteries surrounding the prior disappearance of Heather Donahue, the sister of one of the characters. Initially, the film's connection to the \"Blair Witch\" franchise was kept secret, with the film having been shot under the fake title, \"The Woods\". \n\nThe film was screened at San Diego Comic-Con on July 22, 2016 and premiered at the 2016 Toronto International Film Festival on September 11, before being theatrically released in the United States on September 16 by Lionsgate. The film received generally negative reviews and despite grossing $45 million on a budget of $5 million, it was considered a box office disappointment, given that the original film had grossed nearly $250 million in 1999 against a budget of $60,000.\n\nIn 2014, James Donahue finds a video on YouTube containing an image of a woman he believes to be his sister Heather, who disappeared in 1994 near Burkittsville, Maryland while investigating the legend of the Blair Witch. Believing she is still alive, he heads into the woods, accompanied by his friend Peter Jones, Peter’s girlfriend Ashley Bennett, and film student Lisa Arlington, who wants to film James' search as a documentary, \"The Absence of Closure\". Locals Talia and Lane, who found and uploaded the video, join them.\n\nWhile walking through the woods and upon setting up camp for the night, Lane and Talia discuss the disappearance of Heather and her film crew, the 1940-41 murders by Rustin Parr, and other mysterious occurrences, which they ascribe to the Blair Witch. They hear noises during the night, then awaken at 2 p.m. to find strange stick figures hanging from the trees. When Lisa notices twine in Lane's backpack, he and Talia admit to creating the figures in order to convince the group to believe, but also point out that there is no explanation for the strange noises during the night and sleeping through the day. James and his friend banish Lane and Talia from their group and head out of the woods.\n\nAfter hours of walking, the four surprisingly arrive back at their original campsite. Lisa pilots a drone to obtain their location, but it malfunctions. Ashley becomes sick due to a wound on her foot, forcing the group to camp again. When Peter inspects Ashley's wounded foot, he notices what he thinks may be a parasite inside the wound. Peter leaves the camp for firewood, soon being chased by an unknown entity; a tree falls on him, then he disappears.\n\nLane and Talia appear in the night, claiming they have been wandering for five days without a sunrise. Lane believes the camp is a hallucination and runs off, leaving the dishevelled and ravenously hungry Talia. The next morning, James and Lisa are stunned to find that it is still dark outside at 7am and discover larger stick figures. Talia sees clumps of her hair tied to one of the figures. Ashley accuses Talia of crafting them and snaps the figure with Talia's hair in half; Talia herself is then snapped in half. An unseen force lifts their tent and the group is separated. Ashley finds the drone and climbs a tree to recover it, but is knocked out and falls from the tree, the unknown entity dragging her away.\n\nA rainstorm ensues as Lisa and James stumble across Rustin Parr's house, which James had previously stated to have been burned down after his execution. James hears someone he thinks is Heather scream upstairs, enters the house and sees Peter standing in the corner. He chases after the figure he believes to be Heather, confronted by a teleporting dishevelled figure; upon its vanishing he barricades himself.\n\nLisa spots the unknown entity, a tall, pale, long-limbed creature moving through the trees, and she runs into the house's basement. She finds an aged and hostile Lane who traps her in an underground tunnel, saying “you have to do what she tells you”. The tunnel connects to a different part of the house, where Lisa stabs and kills Lane when he attacks her. Lisa flees when the long-limbed creature emerges from the tunnel and chases her through the house. Lisa runs up to the attic with Lane's camcorder, creating the paradox video that lured them all to the woods.\n\nShe reunites with James in the attic and they try to barricade the door. A bright light shines from outside the building, moving until stopping at the door, indicating the arrival of the witch. James tells Lisa to face the corner of the room and desperately apologizes to her before the witch enters, alongside her creature. James is tricked into turning around, believing that he hears Heather's voice, and vanishes from sight. Lisa uses Lane's camcorder to view what is behind her and begins walking backward. However, hearing James' apology again, she turns, and vanishes, leaving her camera behind before it gives out.\n\n\nWingard first ran into the original \"The Blair Witch Project\" filmmakers, Daniel Myrick and Eduardo Sánchez, while promoting \"V/H/S/2\" at the Sundance Film Festival, and asked them why there were not any more \"Blair Witch\" films. Although nothing came of the meeting at the time, looking back on it, writer Simon Barrett had opined that the conversation led to them being asked by Lionsgate to produce the sequel. Barrett recalled that, in the initial pitch meeting, Lionsgate had already crafted a synopsis for the film, and simply asked if he would be interested in making it, and the \"only thing I really pitched was the other characters; they’d originally conceived the film as more similar to the first film, following its narrative fairly closely, with only three or four characters, I think, but I wanted more characters to give us more scare sequences. I also wanted a unique dynamic within the group from the start, so I pitched the idea of introducing some Burkittsville locals to the group.\"\n\nBarrett would later note that the team found that the found footage genre more challenging, as they have only previously worked with it on the \"V/H/S\" anthology movies. Barrett noted that with the \"V/H/S\" series, there was an inherent entertainment value, where the segments \"were never meant to feel entirely real\", an element that did not work for the \"Blair Witch\" series. Speaking on the issue to Bloody Disgusting, Barrett stated \"even if our scares didn’t work in \"V/H/S\", hopefully people would still be entertained, and if they weren’t, well, another short would start in a few minutes\"; he added that if a scare did not work in \"Blair Witch\", \"we’d have nothing to fall back on, we’d just have failed completely, and publicly.\" To prevent this from happening, Barrett and Winger extensively went over each \"scare\" to discover why it was scary and how the audience would react to it. For some sequences, multiple approaches were tried differently, \"to give us options in the editing room.\"\n\nPrincipal photography took place in the spring of 2015, in a set of woods in British Columbia in Canada. Scenes taking place in the famous Blair Witch House where shot in a sound stage where the House was entirely built.\n\nPrior to the film's premiere at the 2016 San Diego Comic-Con, the fact that the film was a \"Blair Witch\" sequel remained a closely guarded secret, as the film was shot under the title \"The Woods\". According to the film's writer, Barrett, the film's secrecy was done to prevent backlash among Internet commenters, who the filmmakers felt would react negatively to news of a reboot. Prior to the official premiere, Lionsgate went as far as to release a trailer for the film incorporating actual footage, while still keeping the film's lineage a secret. The film was still publicly known as \"The Woods\" even at Comic-Con, prior to its first screening, with io9 reporting that the initial theater for the screening was filled with posters for the fake film. After the screening (during which audiences realized that the film was a sequel), all the promotional material in the theater was changed to reflect the film's actual title.\n\nThe film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 11, 2016 and was theatrically released on September 16, 2016.\n\n\"Blair Witch\" grossed $20.8 million in North America and $24.4 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $45.2 million, against a production budget of $5 million.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, the film was released on September 16, 2016, and was initially projected to gross at least $20 million with a chance to get as high as $26 million in its opening weekend, from 3,121 theaters. Lionsgate's expectations were more conservative, however, with a projected $15–18 million opening, although rival studios were predicting significantly higher numbers, noting how horror films saw solid performances throughout 2016, including \"Lights Out\", \"The Conjuring 2\", \"\", \"The Shallows\" and \"Don't Breathe\". However, after grossing $765,000 from its Thursday previews and $4.1 million on its first day, opening projections were lowered to $10 million. It ended up grossing $9.7 million in its opening weekend, below expectations and the lowest opening weekend of the series. The film was considered a box office disappointment by analysts.\n\nThe film received a day-and-date release in many countries in conjunction with its North American debut.\n\nThe film cost $5 million to produce, with an additional $20 million spent on promotion, advertising and marketing costs.\n\n\"Blair Witch\" received mixed reviews, with critics noting it as an improvement on \"Book of Shadows\" while criticizing the writing and special effects. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 35% based on 192 reviews, with an average rating of 5.1/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Blair Witch\" doles out a handful of effective scares, but aside from a few new twists, it mainly offers a belated rehash of the original – and far more memorable – first film.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 47 out of 100, based on 41 critics. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"D+\" on an A+ to F scale. According to \"Entertainment Weekly\"s Joey Nolfi, while \"Blair Witch\" is generally regarded as an improvement over \"\", \"moviegoers and film journalists essentially told [\"Blair Witch\"] to stand in the corner...critical reviews and audience exit polling...are still some of the worst of any 2016 release thus far.\"\n\nMichael Roffman of \"Consequence of Sound\" wrote that \"Nothing [about the film] is scary, nothing is remotely disturbing, and there’s this boring familiarity to the proceedings, namely because it’s more or less a beat-by-beat remake of the original.\" \"The Hollywood Reporter\"'s Leslie Felperin criticized the film, commenting that it is \"a dull retread rather than a full-on reinvention,\" enlarging the cast numbers this time but sticking to the same basic beats. Scott Tobias of \"GQ\" felt that the makers of \"Blair Witch\" made a poor decision by making the film less subtle than the original. Thomas Simpson of the \"Rock River Times\" said that the film \"lacks any real scares\" and that, after watching it, \"you shouldn’t have any issues turning the light off at night.\" The \"New York Post\"s Kyle Smith condemned the film by saying that \"the take-away from \"Blair Witch\" is not terror, but sorrow,\" and gave it 1.5 stars out of 4.\n\nJosh Kurp of Uproxx gave the film a mixed review, saying \"\"Blair Witch\" is scary, but it lacks surprise, and without surprise, you’re left with a bunch of kind-of annoying people shakily filming themselves wandering the woods and reacting to loud noises.\" Mark Kermode gave the film three out of five stars in a review for \"The Guardian\", calling it \"efficient if unadventurous.\" \"Vanity Fair\"s Jordan Hoffman felt that the film was inferior to \"You're Next\", a previous film by Wingard and writer Simon Barrett, and said \"Blair Witch\"s \"jump-scares [will] make for a fun night at the movies, but it’s like chomping on White Castle hamburgers—when this creative team has previously served us a prime rib.\"\n\nConversely, IGN reviewer Chris Tilly declared that \"Blair Witch\" is \"so good it'll make you forget that \"Book of Shadows\" ever happened.\" Mark Eccleston of \"Glamour\" wrote that the film has \"genuine, jarring scares...and an unsettling late surprise that makes it well worth popping to you nearest multiplex to have the holy crap scared out of you.\" Bloody Disgusting's Brad Miska writes, \"\"Blair Witch\" is that game-changer horror fans desperately have been waiting for.\" Miska gave the film a 4.5 out of 5 rating, and included it in his list of the \"Best Horror Films of 2016\".\n\nThe soundtrack was released on September 16, 2016 via Lakeshore Records, concurrent with the film's release. The score is a collaboration of director Wingard with electronic music producer Robert Rich.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25685126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25685126", "title": "Calvin Hartwell", "text": "Calvin Hartwell\n\nCalvin Hartwell (December 17, 1849 – May 19, 1920) was a Republican politician who served as a member of the Pasadena Board of Trustees from 1895-1898, Mayor of Pasadena, California from 1896-1898, Los Angeles County Assessor from 1906–1910, and Los Angeles County Coroner from 1908-1920. He was born near Sandusky, Ohio.\n"}
{"id": "5544273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5544273", "title": "Capital punishment in Cyprus", "text": "Capital punishment in Cyprus\n\nCapital punishment for murder was abolished in Cyprus on 15 December 1983. It was abolished for all crimes on 19 April 2002. The death penalty was replaced with life imprisonment. Cyprus is a signatory of the second optional protocol of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which provides for full abolition of capital punishment. Cyprus initially had a reservation on the second protocol, allowing execution for grave crimes in times of war, but subsequently gave up this reservation.\n\nThe last executions were carried out on 13 June 1962. Three men, Hambis Zacharia, Michael Hiletikos and Lazaris Demetriou, were hanged for murder at the Central Jail of Nicosia, the country's only prison. Zacharia had killed a man in 1958 in a Limassol vineyard. Hiletikos and Demetriou were convicted of shooting a man outside a Limassol night-club in 1961. The British executioners Harry Allen and John Underhill travelled to Cyprus to carry out the hangings.\n\nPrior to independence, nine men had been hanged in 1956 and 1957 by the British for acts committed as members of EOKA. The Central Jail of Nicosia still functions as a prison, but the area where executions were carried out is now a museum.\nThe unrecognised state of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus retains the death penalty in limited circumstances. Article 15 of the state's constitution declares that capital punishment can be imposed in cases of treason during wartime, acts of terrorism and piracy \"jure gentium\", and for repeated murders. Even in these instances, no execution of capital punishment can be carried out unless the Northern Cyprus legislative assembly decides so under the provisions of Article 78. , Northern Cyprus has never carried out an execution.\n"}
{"id": "3176153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176153", "title": "Chief Happiness Officer", "text": "Chief Happiness Officer\n\nThe Chief Happiness Officer (CHO) in a company is the manager of workers' happiness. Probably originating in North America, CHO posts are being created in European and UK companies to ensure workers' welfare needs are met.\n\n"}
{"id": "1106205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1106205", "title": "Cognitive closure (philosophy)", "text": "Cognitive closure (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy of science and philosophy of mind, cognitive closure is the proposition that human minds are constitutionally incapable of solving certain perennial philosophical problems. Owen Flanagan calls this position anti-constructive naturalism or the \"new mysterianism\" and the primary advocate of the hypothesis, Colin McGinn, calls it transcendental naturalism acknowledging the possibility that solutions may be an intelligent non-human of some kind. According to McGinn, such philosophical questions include the mind-body problem, identity of the self, foundations of meaning, free will, and knowledge, both \"a priori\" and empirical.\n\nFor Friedrich Hayek, \"The whole idea of the mind explaining itself is a logical contradiction\"... and \"takes this incompleteness—the constitutional inability of mind to explain itself—to be a generalized case of Gödel's incompleteness theorem... Hayek is \"not\" a naturalistic agnostic, that is, the view that science \"currently\" cannot offer an explanation of the mind-body relationship, but in principle it could.\"\n\nNoam Chomsky argues that the cognitive capabilities of all organisms are limited by biology and that certain problems may be beyond our understanding:\nAs argued in Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\", human thinking is unavoidably structured by categories of the understanding:\nThese are ideas to which there is no escape, thus they pose a limit to thinking. What can be known through the categories is called phenomena and what is outside the categories is called noumena, the unthinkable \"things in themselves\".\n\nIn his (famous) essay \"What Is It Like to Be a Bat?\" Thomas Nagel mentions the possibility of cognitive closure to the subjective character of experience and the (deep) implications that it has for materialist reductionist science. Owen Flanagan noted in his 1991 book \"Science of the Mind\" that some modern thinkers have suggested that consciousness will never be completely explained. Flanagan called them \"the new mysterians\" after the rock group Question Mark and the Mysterians. According to McGinn, the solution to the mind-body problem cannot be grasped, despite the fact that the solution is \"written in our genes\".\n\nEmergent materialism is a similar but different claim that humans are not smart enough to determine \"the relationship between mind and matter.\"\n\nWhile the nature of consciousness is complex, according to some philosophers, that does not imply closure, thus, McGinn's argument is flawed.\n\n"}
{"id": "816023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=816023", "title": "Community informatics", "text": "Community informatics\n\nCommunity informatics (CI) is an interdisciplinary field that is concerned with using information and communication technology (ICT) to empower members of communities and support their social, cultural, and economic development.\nCommunity informatics may contribute to enhancing democracy, supporting the development of social capital, and building well connected communities; moreover, it is probable that such similar actions may let people experience new positive social change. In community informatics, there are several considerations which are the social context, shared values, distinct processes that are taken by members in a community, and social and technical systems. It is formally located as an academic discipline within a variety of academic faculties including information science, information systems, computer science, planning, development studies, and library science among others and draws on insights on community development from a range of backgrounds and disciplines. It is an interdisciplinary approach interested in using ICTs for different forms of community action, as distinct from pure academic study about ICT effects.\n\nMost humans live in communities. In some urban areas, community and neighborhood are conflated but this may be a limited definition. Communities are defined as people coming together in pursuit of common aims or shared practices through any means, including physical, electronic, and social networks. They proliferate even while the ability to define them is amorphous.\n\nCultures ensure their growth and survival by continuing the norms and mores that are the bases of their way of life. Communities can use the infrastructure of ICTs as a method of continuing cultures within the context of the Internet and the World Wide Web. Once a cultural identity is defined within the context of these technologies, it can be replicated and disseminated through various means, including the sharing of information through websites, applications, databases, and file sharing. In this manner, a group that defines its cultural identity within the construct of technology infrastructure is empowered to hold valuable exchanges within the spheres of economics, political power, high and popular culture, education, and entertainment.\n\nSince the inception of the Internet and the World Wide Web, we have seen the exponential growth of enterprises ranging from electronic commerce, social networking, entertainment and education, as well as a myriad of other contrivances and file exchanges that allow for an ongoing cultural enrichment through technology. However, there has been a general lag as to which populations can benefit through these services through impediments such as geographic location, a lack of funds, gaps in technology and the expertise and skills that are required to operate these systems.\n\nTo date there has been very considerable investment in supporting the electronic development of business communities, one-to-many social tools (for example, corporate intranets, or purpose-built exchange and social networking services such as eBay, or Myspace), or in developing applications for individual use. There is far less understanding, or investment in human-technical networks and processes that are intended to deliberately result in social change or community change, particularly in communities for whom electronic communication is secondary to having an adequate income or social survival.\n\nThe communal dimension (and focus of Community Informatics) results in a strong interest in studying and developing strategies for how ICTs can enable and empower those living in physical communities. This is particularly the case in those communities where ICT access is done communally, through Telecentres, information kiosks, community multimedia centres, and other technologies. This latter set of approaches has become of very considerable interest as Information and Communications Technology for Development (ICT4D) has emerged as significant element in strategic (and funding) approaches to social and economic development in Less Developed Countries. ICT4D initiatives have been undertaken by public, NGO and private sector agencies concerned with development such as the United Nations Development Program, the World Bank, the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), the MS Swaminathan Research Foundation; have emerged as a key element in the poverty alleviation component of the UN's Millennium Development Goals; and as important directions for private sector investment both from a market perspective (cf. the \"Bottom of the Pyramid\") and from companies concerned with finding a delivery channel for goods and services into rural and low income communities.\n\nThere is thus growing interest in Community Informatics as an approach to understanding of how different ICTs can enable and empower marginalized communities to achieve their collective goals.\n\nIt is crucial to know how communities are formed and evolved and how the participation to a community occurs and differs while formation process. Understanding the nature of communities and the participation process will surely ensure designing and implemenameting a successful ICT solution that benefits members of community while communicating with each other or performing certain tasks. The following points include a brief description of the nature of each potential community formation.\n\nA group of people may form a community according to the place in which they live, enjoy staying, and work. They usually participate in communities within these three places since they gather together on consistent basis so that it is highly expected that such community is formed. Beside the home and the work gathering, people usually like to spend their time at informal places called third places in where they meet their new or old friends or have a chance to meet new people.\n\nA group of people may form a community as they have frequent direct interactions or live in close proximity to each other. The members of such community may have strong bond and focused common goals which give them a higher status over other communities. Moreover, as the number of the members increases, the community may become reputable and has a higher status over other communities.\n\nA group of people may form a community as they have common shared identity. People may form such community to support and advocate common shared values, morals or norms in which they believe. Such a community may have a set of symbols and be associated with a status over other communities. The inclusion and the exclusion to such community depend on whether or not a member share the same identity with others in the community. For instance, people who descend from one origin may form a community in which only people from that origin can join the community even though they do not know each other in advance.\n\nA group of people may form a community as they have similar affinity for a particular activity, experience, or subject. The geographical location is not necessary while forming such community, and the inclusion and the exclusion to such community depends on whether a new member has that affinity or not.\n\nA group of people may form a community if they share a similar experience in a distinct life stage. The experience could be related to the members themselves or to their relatives, such as their children. For instance, parents of elementary school children may form a community in which they care about their children while in school. As it is mentioned in the previous type of community formation, the members of such community have a common interest which is caring about their children while in school. This type of community may persist over time, but the inclusion and the exclusion to it may happen consistently as people are no longer in that distinct life stage.\n\nA group of people who share a similar profession may form a community in which they work to attain their goals and advance in their profession. Three important concepts are considered while forming community of practice which are mutual engagement, joint enterprise, and shared repertoire. In a community of practice, the members have to be mutually engaged with each other by establishing collaborative relationships that will allow them to willingly work on certain joint activities. In the second concept which is joint enterprise, the members of a community of practice are supposed to discuss and agree upon the work responsibilities so that they can work in harmony, and each member knows his responsibility and his expected contributions to the community. In addition to these two concepts, the members of the community of practice have a shared repertoire of procedures or ways to perform certain tasks. They usually agree upon these procedures and practices that they establish and develop over time.\n\nAs an academic discipline, CI can be seen as a field of practice in applied information and communications technology. Community informatics is a technique for looking at economic and social development within the construct of technology—online health communities, social networking websites, cultural awareness and enhancement through online connections and networks, electronic commerce, information exchanges, as well as a myriad of other aspects that contributes to creating a personal and group identity. The term was brought to prominence by Michael Gurstein. Michael Gurstein says that community informatics is a technology strategy or discipline that connects at the community level economic and social development with the emergence of community and civic networks, electronic commerce, online participation, self-help, virtual health communities, \"Tele-centres\", as well as other types of online institutions and corporations. He brought out the first representative collection of academic papers, although others, such as Brian Loader and his colleagues at the University of Teesside used the term in the mid-1990s.\n\nCI brings together the practices of community development and organization, and insights from fields such as sociology, planning, computer science, critical theory, women's studies, library and information sciences, management information systems, and management studies. Its outcomes—community networks and community-based ICT-enabled service applications—are of increasing interest to grassroots organizations, NGOs and civil society, governments, the private sector, and multilateral agencies among others. Self-organized community initiatives of all varieties, from different countries, are concerned with ways to harness ICT for social capital, poverty alleviation and for the empowerment of the \"local\" in relation to its larger economic, political and social environments. Some claim it is potentially a form of 'radical practice'.\n\nCommunity informatics may in fact, not gel as a single field within the academy, but remain a convenient locale for interdisciplinary activity, drawing upon many fields of social practice and endeavour, as well as knowledge of community applications of technology. However, one can begin to see the emergence of a postmodern \"trans-discipline\" presenting a challenge to existing disciplinary \"stove-pipes\" from the perspectives of the rapidly evolving fields of technology practice, technology change, public policy and commercial interest. Whether or not such a \"trans-discipline\" can maintain its momentum remains to be seen given the incertitude about the boundaries of such disciplines as community development.\n\nFurthermore, there is a continuing disconnect between those coming from an Information Science perspective for whom social theories, including general theories of organisation are unfamiliar or seemingly irrelevant to solving complex 'technical' problems, and those whose focus is upon the theoretical and practical issues around working with communities for democratic and social change\nGiven that many of those most actively involved in early efforts were academics, it is only inevitable that a process of \"sense-making\" with respect to these efforts would follow from \"tool-making\" efforts. These academics, and some community activists connected globally through the medium.\n\nA first formal meeting of researchers with an academic interest in these initiatives was held in conjunction with the 1999 Global Community Networking Conference in Buenos Aires, Argentina. This meeting began the process of linking community-based ICT initiatives in developed countries with initiatives undertaken in developing countries, which were often part of larger economic and social development programmes funded by agencies such as the UN Development Programme, World Bank, or the International Development Research Centre. Academics and researchers interested in ICT efforts in developed countries began to see common and overlapping interests with those interested in similar work in less developed countries. For example, the issue of sustainability as a technical, cultural, and economic problem for community informatics has resulted in a special issue of the Journal of Community Informatics as well as the subject of ongoing conferences in Prato, Italy and other conferences in South Africa.\n\nIn Canada, the beginnings of CI can be recognized from various trials in community networking in the 1970s (Clement 1981). An essential development occurred in the 1990s, due to the change of cost of computers and modems. Moreover, examples of using computer networking to initiate and enhance social activities was acknowledged by women's groups (Balka 1992) and by the labor movement (Mazepa 1997).\n\nSocial informatics refers to the body of research and study that examines social aspects of computerization—including the roles of information technology in social and organizational change, the uses of information technologies in social contexts, and the ways that the social organization of information technologies is influenced by social forces and social practices. Historically, social informatics research has been strong in the Scandinavian countries, the UK and Northern Europe. In Europe some researchers have pointed out that in order to create awareness of the importance of social issues of computing, one has to focus on didactics of social informatics.\nWithin North America, the field is represented largely through independent research efforts at a number of diverse institutions. Social informatics research diverges from earlier, deterministic (both social and technological) models for measuring the social impacts of technology. Such technological deterministic models characterized information technologies as tools to be installed and used with a pre-determined set of impacts on society dictated by the technology's stated capabilities. Similarly, the socially deterministic theory represented by some proponents of the social construction of technology (SCOT) or social shaping of technology theory see technology as the product of human social forces.\n\nThere is a tension between the practice and research ends of the field. To some extent this reflects the gap, familiar from other disciplines such as community development, community organizing and community based research. In addition, the difficulty that Information Systems has in recognising the qualitative dimension of technology research means that the kind of approach taken by supporters of community informatics is difficult to justify to a positive field oriented towards solutions of technical, rather than social problems. This is a difficulty also seen in the relationship between strict technology research and management research. Problems in conceptualising and evaluating complex social interventions relying on a technical base are familiar from community health and community education. There are long-standing debates about the desire for accountable - especially \"quantifiable\" and outcome-focused social development, typically practised by government or supported by foundations, and the more participatory, qualitatively rich, process-driven priorities of grass-roots community activists, familiar from theorists such as Paulo Freire, or Deweyan pragmatism.\n\nSome of the theoretical and practical tensions are also familiar from such disciplines as program evaluation and social policy, and perhaps paradoxically, Management Information Systems, where there is continual debate over the relative virtue and values of different forms of research and action, spread around different understandings of the virtues or otherwise of allegedly \"scientific\" or \"value-free\" activity (frequently associated with \"responsible\" and deterministic public policy philosophies), and contrasted with more interpretive and process driven viewpoints in bottom-up or practice driven activity. Community informatics would in fact probably benefit from closer knowledge of, and relationship to, theorists, practitioners, and evaluators of rigorous qualitative research and practice.\n\nA further concern is the potential for practice to be \"hijacked\" by policy or academic agendas, rather than being driven by community goals, both in developed and developing countries. The ethics of technology intervention in indigenous or other communities has not been sufficiently explored, even though ICTs are increasingly looked upon as an important tool for social and economic development in such communities. Moreover, neither explicit theoretical positions nor ideological positioning has yet emerged. Many projects appear to have developed with no particular disciplinary affiliation, arising more directly from policy or practice imperatives to 'do something' with technology as funding opportunities arise or as those at the grassroots (or working with the grassroots) identify ICT as possible resources to respond to local issues, problems or opportunities. The papers and documented outcomes (as questions or issues for further research or elaboration) on the wiki of the October 2006 Prato conference demonstrate that many of the social, rather than technical issues are key questions of concern to any practitioner in community settings: how to bring about change; the nature of authentic or manufactured community; ethical frameworks; or the politics of community research.\n\nA different strain of critique has emerged from gender studies. Some theorists have argued that feminist contributions to the field have yet to be fully acknowledged and Community Informatics as a research area has yet to welcome feminist interventions. This exists despite the presence of several gender-oriented studies and leadership roles played by women in community informatics initiatives.\n\nResearch and practice ranges from concerns with purely virtual communities; to situations in which virtual or online communication are used to enhance existing communities in urban, rural, or remote geographic locations in developed or developing countries; to applications of ICTs for the range of areas of interest for communities including social and economic development, environmental management, media and \"content\" production, public management and e-governance among others. A central concern, although one not always realized in practice is with \"enabling\" or \"empowering\" communities with ICT that is, ensuring that the technology is available for the community. This further implies an approach to development which is rather more \"bottom up\" than \"top down\".\n\nAreas of concern range from small-scale projects in particular communities or organizations which might involve only a handful of people, such as telecentres; an on online community of disabled people; civic networks and to large national, government sponsored networking projects in countries such as Australia and Canada or local community projects such as working with Maori families in New Zealand. The Gates Foundation has been active in supporting public libraries in countries such as Chile. An area of rapidly developing interest is in the use of ICT as a means to enhance citizen engagement as an \"e-Governance\" counterpart (or counterweight) to transaction oriented initiatives.\n\nA key conceptual element and framing concept for Community Informatics is that of \"effective use\" introduced initially by Michael Gurstein in a critique of a research pre-occupation with the Digital Divide as ICT \"access\". CI is concerned with how ICTs are used in practice and not simply facilitating \"access\" to them and the notion of \"effective use\" is a bridge between CI research (research and analysis of the constituent elements of effective use), CI policy (developing enabling structures and programmes supportive of \"effective use\") and practice (implementing applications and services in support of local communities).\n\nAnother way to understand CI is Clement and Shade's \"access rainbow\" (Clement and Shade 2000). Clement and Shade have contended that accomplishing insignificant specialized connectedness to the Internet is no assurance that an individual or group will prevail with regards to appropriating new ICTs in ways that advance their improvement, independence, or empowerment. It is an approach which has multi-layered socio-specialized model for universal access to ICTs. It is displayed as seven layers, starting with the fundamental technical components of connectedness and moving upward through layers that inexorably push the essential social framework of access. The seven layers are: 1. Carriage 2. Devices 3. Software tools Internet 4. Content/services 5. Service/access 6. Literacy / social facilitation 7. Governance. Even though that all elements are important, the most important one is the content /service layer in the middle, since this is where the actual utility is most direct. The upper layers focus on social dimensions and the lower layers focus on technical aspects.\n\nMany practitioners would dispute any necessary connection to university research, regarding academic theorising and interventions as constraining or irrelevant to grassroots activity which should be beyond the control of traditional institutions, or simply irrelevant to practical local goals.\n\nSome of the commonalities and differences may be in fact be due to national and cultural differences. For example, the capacity of many North American (and particularly US) universities to engage in service learning as part of progressive charters in communities large and small is part of a long-standing tradition absent elsewhere. The tradition of service learning is almost entirely absent in the UK, Australia, or New Zealand, (and of limited significance in Canada) where the State has traditionally played a much stronger role in the delivery of community services and information.\n\nIn some countries such as the UK, there is a tradition of locally based grassroots community technology, for example in Manchester, or in Hebden Bridge. In Italy and the Netherlands, there also appears to have been a strong connection between the development of local civic networks based around a tradition of civic oppositionism, connected into the work of progressive academics.\n\nIn Latin America, Africa and many parts of Asia these efforts have been driven by external funding agencies as part of larger programs and initiatives in support of broader economic and social development goals. However, these efforts have now become significantly \"indigenized\" (and particularly in Latin America) and \"bottom-up\" ICT efforts are increasingly playing a leading role in defining the future use of ICT within local communities.\n\nIn Canada, The Canadian Research Alliance for Community Innovation and Networking (CRACIN) was established in 2003. Their goal is to explore and archive the status and achievements of CI activities in Canada. It is a research partnership between scholastics, specialists, and public sector delegates.\n\nThere are emerging online and personal networks of researchers and practitioners in community informatics and community networking in many countries as well as international groupings. The past decade has also seen conferences in many countries, and there is an emerging literature for theoreticians and practitioners including the on-line Journal of Community Informatics.\n\nIt is surprising in fact, how much in common is found when people from developed and non-developed countries meet. A common theme is the struggle to convince policy makers of the legitimacy of this approach to developing electronically literate societies, instead of a top-down or trickle-down approach, or an approach dominated by technical, rather than social solutions which in the end, tend to help vendors rather than communities. A common criticism that is frequently raised amongst participants at events such as the Prato conferences is that a focus on technical solutions evades the social changes that communities need to achieve in their values, activities and other people-oriented outcomes in order to make better use of technology.\n\nThe field tends to have a progressive bent, being concerned about the use of technology for social and cultural development connected to a desire for capacity building or expanding social capital, and in a number of countries, governments and foundations have funded a variety of community informatics projects and initiatives, particularly from a more tightly controlled, though not well-articulated social planning perspective, though knowledge about long-term effects of such forms of social intervention on use of technology is still in its early stages.\n\nEven though that community networks and public libraries have similitudes in various ways, there are some obstacles that upset the probability of cooperation in the future between them. Albeit both CNs and libraries are concerned with giving information services to the society, an exchange is by all accounts lacking between the two communities. The mission of libraries is frequently rather barely engaged and, with regards to managing people and different institutes, their methodology can be to some degree unbending. Thusly, CN specialists, while institutionally more adaptable, rush to expel the part of public libraries in the community, tending to see the library essentially as a store of books upheld by public subsidizing. Public libraries have a long-standing custom of association with their communities, yet their conditions and concerns contrast from those of community networks (CNs).\n\n"}
{"id": "15832717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15832717", "title": "Computational statistics", "text": "Computational statistics\n\nComputational statistics, or statistical computing, is the interface between statistics and computer science. It is the area of computational science (or scientific computing) specific to the mathematical science of statistics. This area is also developing rapidly, leading to calls that a broader concept of computing should be taught as part of general statistical education.\n\nAs in traditional statistics the goal is to transform raw data into knowledge, but the focus lies on computer intensive statistical methods, such as cases with very large sample size and non-homogeneous data sets.\n\nThe terms 'computational statistics' and 'statistical computing' are often used interchangeably, although Carlo Lauro (a former president of the International Association for Statistical Computing) proposed making a distinction, defining 'statistical computing' as \"the application of computer science to statistics\",\nand 'computational statistics' as \"aiming at the design of algorithm for implementing\nstatistical methods on computers, including the ones unthinkable before the computer\nage (e.g. bootstrap, simulation), as well as to cope with analytically intractable problems\" [\"sic\"].\n\nThe term 'Computational statistics' may also be used to refer to computationally \"intensive\" statistical methods including resampling methods, Markov chain Monte Carlo methods, local regression, kernel density estimation, artificial neural networks and generalized additive models.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23449202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23449202", "title": "Death hoax", "text": "Death hoax\n\nA death hoax is a deliberate or confused report of someone's death that turns out to be incorrect and murder rumors. In some cases it might be because the person has intentionally faked death.\n\nIn the 21st century death hoaxes about celebrities have been widely perpetuated via the Internet. However they are not a new phenomenon; in 1945 following the death of Franklin Roosevelt there were hoax reports of the deaths of Charlie Chaplin and Frank Sinatra, among other celebrities of the time. Possibly the most famous hoax of this type was the \"Paul (McCartney) is dead\" rumour of the late 1960s.\n\nHoaxes about the death of a celebrity increase in frequency when genuine celebrity deaths occur. which closely coincided with the deaths of Ed McMahon, Farrah Fawcett, Billy Mays and Patrick Swayze, hoax reports emerged concerning the deaths of a number of celebrities. Paul Walker's death in December 2013 sparked rumours of Eddie Murphy dying in a snowboarding accident.\n\nOther cases of celebrity death hoaxes fueled by social media include Bill Murray, Jon Bon Jovi, Gordon Lightfoot, Shahrukh Khan Celine Dion, Jerry Springer, Bill Nye, and William H. Macy.\n\nOn 8 January 1992, Headline News almost became the victim of a death hoax. A man called HLN and claimed he was President George H. W. Bush's physician. He claimed Bush died following an incident he had in Tokyo. However, before anchorman Don Harrison was about to report the news, executive producer Roger Bahre, who was off-camera, immediately yelled \"No! Stop!\" It turned out that a CNN employee entered the information into a centralized computer used by both CNN and Headline News, and it nearly got out on the air before it could be verified. James Edward Smith, an Idaho man, was questioned by the USSS and was later sent to a medical facility for evaluation.\n\nOn 18 March 2015, a fake website that reported the death of Lee Kuan Yew, first prime minister of Singapore. Lee was still alive at the time, but died on 23 March 2015. On 8 April 2015 the student who created the fake site was issued a warning by the Attorney-General of Singapore, after \"careful consideration of all relevant factors\".\n\nAn opposite phenomenon is death denial rumors: claims that a person is alive, despite official announcements of death (i.e. death certificates, confirmations, etc.). Notable cases are Elvis Presley, Andy Kaufman, Tupac Shakur, David Bowie and XXXTentacion.\n\n"}
{"id": "20806653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20806653", "title": "Dopamine dysregulation syndrome", "text": "Dopamine dysregulation syndrome\n\nDopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS) is a dysfunction of the reward system observed in some individuals taking dopaminergic medications for an extended length of time. It typically occurs in people with Parkinson's disease (PD) who have taken dopamine agonist medications for an extended period of time. It is characterized by self-control problems such as addiction to medication, gambling, or sexual behavior.\n\nThe most common symptom is craving for dopaminergic medication. However other behavioral symptoms can appear independently of craving or co-occur with it. Craving is an intense impulse of the subject to obtain medication even in the absence of symptoms that indicate its intake. To fulfill this need the person will self-administer extra doses. When self-administration is not possible, aggressive outbursts or the use of strategies such as symptom simulation or bribery to access additional medication can also appear.\n\nHypomania, manifesting with feelings of euphoria, omnipotence, or grandiosity, are prone to appear in those moments when medication effects are maximum; dysphoria, characterized by sadness, psychomotor slowing, fatigue or apathy are typical with dopamine replacement therapy (DRT) withdrawal. Different impulse control disorders have been described including gambling, compulsive shopping, eating disorders and hypersexuality. Behavioral disturbances, most commonly aggressive tendencies, are the norm. Psychosis is also common.\n\nParkinson's disease is a common neurological disorder characterized by a degeneration of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra and a loss of dopamine in the putamen. It is described as a motor disease, but it also produces cognitive and behavioral symptoms. The most common treatment is dopamine replacement therapy, which consists in the administration of levodopa (L-Dopa) or dopamine agonists (such as pramipexole or ropinirole) to patients. Dopamine replacement therapy is well known to improve motor symptoms but its effects in cognitive and behavioral symptoms are more complex. Dopamine has been related to the normal learning of stimuli with behavioral and motivational significance, attention, and most importantly the reward system. In accordance with the role of dopamine in reward processing, addictive drugs stimulate dopamine release. Although the exact mechanism has yet to be elucidated, the role of dopamine in the reward system and addiction has been proposed as the origin of DDS. Models of addiction have been used to explain how dopamine replacement therapy produces DDS. One of these models of addiction proposes that over the usage course of a drug there is a habituation to the rewarding that it produces at the initial stages. This habituation is thought to be dopamine mediated. With long-term administration of L-dopa the reward system gets used to it and needs higher quantities. As the user increases drug intake there is a loss of dopaminergic receptors in the striatum which acts in addition to an impairment in goal-direction mental functions to produce an enhancement of sensitization to dopamine therapy. The behavioral and mood symptoms of the syndrome are produced by the dopamine overdose.\n\nDiagnosis of the syndrome is clinical since there are no laboratory tests to confirm it. For diagnosis a person with documented responsiveness to medication has to increase medication intake beyond dosage needed to relieve their parkinsonian symptoms in a pathological addiction-like pattern. A current mood disorder (depression, anxiety, hypomanic state or euphoria), behavioral disorder (excessive gambling, shopping or sexual tendency, aggression, or social isolation) or an altered perception about the effect of medication also have to be present. A questionnaire on the typical symptoms of DDS has also been developed and can help in the diagnosis process.\n\nThe main prevention measure proposed is the prescription of the lowest possible dose of dopamine replacement therapy to individuals at risk. The minimization of the use of dopamine agonists, and of short duration formulations of L-Dopa can also decrease risk of the syndrome.\n\nFirst choice management measure consists in the enforcement of a dopaminergic drug dosage reduction. If this decrease is maintained, dysregulation syndrome features soon decrease. Cessation of dopamine agonists therapy may also be of use. Some behavioral characteristics may respond to psychotherapy; and social support is important to control risk factors. In some cases antipsychotic drugs may also be of use in the presence of psychosis, aggression, gambling or hypersexuality.\n\nBased upon five case reports, valproic acid may have efficacy in controlling the symptoms of levodopa-induced DDS that arise from the use of levodopa for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.\n\nDDS is not common among PD patients. Prevalence may be around 4%. Its prevalence is higher among males with an early onset of the disease. Previous substance abuse such as heavy drinking or drug intake seems to be the main risk factor along with a history of affective disorder.\n\nPD was first formally described in 1817, however L-dopa did not enter clinical practice until almost 1970. In these initial works there were already reports of neuropsychiatric complications. During the following decades cases featuring DDS symptoms in relation to dopamine therapy such as hypersexuality, gambling or punding, appeared. DDS was first described as a syndrome in the year 2000. Three years later the first review articles on the syndrome were written, showing an increasing awareness of the DDS importance. Diagnostic criteria were proposed in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "21320663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21320663", "title": "Elling Woman", "text": "Elling Woman\n\nThe Elling Woman is a bog body discovered in 1938 west of Silkeborg, Denmark. The Tollund Man was later discovered just c. away, twelve years after the Elling Woman's discovery. The Elling Woman was mistakenly described as a man in P.V. Glob's book, \"The Bog People\".\n\nLater known as the Elling Woman, the body was discovered by a local farmer, Jens Zakariasson, who at first believed that the remains were of a drowned animal. The body was wrapped in a sheepskin cape with a leather cloak tied around her legs. The face of the woman was poorly preserved, and there were no traces of organs inside of the body.\n\nThe Elling Woman is believed to have been hanged, like the Tollund Man. The estimated year of death was dated to approximately 280 BCE in the Nordic Iron Age, also around the time of the Tollund Man; however, it is not possible to confirm whether or not both she and he were killed at exactly the same time. It also initially might have been impossible to tell the sex of her body, if the hair had not been preserved, although X rays were taken of her pelvis, which proved she was female.\n\nIn 1978, the body was reexamined with radiographs, from which the sex was inferred to be female and the original age-at-death estimate of 25 years was found to be accurate. This body is often identified by its braid, which was tied into an elaborate knot. Elling Woman is believed to have been a human sacrifice.\n\nDemineralization, which often occurs with bog bodies, was found to be the initial cause of what was first understood as apparent osteoporosis in the remains.\n"}
{"id": "2440175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2440175", "title": "Emir Spahić", "text": "Emir Spahić\n\nEmir Spahić (; born 18 August 1980) is a Bosnian former professional footballer who played as a centre back.\n\nDuring his club career, he represented teams in his homeland, Croatia, Russia, France, Spain and Germany.\n\nA full international from 2003 to 2016, he was the captain of the Bosnia and Herzegovina national team from 2008 until the end of the 2014 FIFA World Cup.\n\nOver the course of his career, Spahić played for Zagreb, Shinnik Yaroslavl, Lokomotiv Moscow and Anzhi Makhachkala.\n\nHe played for Zagreb and Leverkusen in the Champions League and with Montpellier, Sevilla and Lokomotiv in the Europa League.\n\nOn 24 June 2009, Spahić announced that he would join newly promoted Montpellier for the 2009–10 Ligue 1 season. On his league debut against Paris Saint-Germain, he scored a header in the 94th minute for a 1–1 draw, earning his side a point.\n\nOn 4 July 2011, Spahić agreed a transfer with Spanish side Sevilla for €2 million until July 2014. His national teammate Miroslav Stevanović also transferred to Sevilla in January 2013 and upon his arrival at San Pablo International Airport, he was received by Spahić. Spahić scored his first goal for Sevilla on 5 January 2013 in a 1–0 victory against Osasuna.\n\nOn 26 February 2013, Spahić left Sevilla on loan to Anzhi Makhachkala of the Russian Premier League. He scored his first goal for the club on 14 April 2013 against Volga Nizhny Novgorod.\n\nOn 28 June 2013, Spahić was signed by Bayer Leverkusen of the German Bundesliga on a two-year contract. He conceded a penalty and was later sent off in a Champions League last-16 first-leg game on 18 February 2014, as Paris Saint-Germain beat Leverkusen 4–0. On 20 April, he scored his first two goals for the club in a 4–1 league victory against 1. FC Nürnberg.\n\nOn 30 August 2014, 34-year-old Spahić headed in a goal from a free kick to level the score at 2–2 in a game that finished 4–2 for Leverkusen against Hertha BSC, thus ensuring his team's unbeaten start to the season.\n\nSpahić was sent off for two yellow cards in a 4–5 home defeat against VfL Wolfsburg on 14 February 2015; having been 1–4 down, the score was level at his time of dismissal.\n\nOn 30 March 2015, Spahić was named the best defender in Europe (in front of Martín Demichelis of Manchester City, Mats Hummels of Borussia Dortmund, Chris Smalling of Manchester United and Thiago Silva of PSG) by International Centre for Sports Studies (CIES). Spahić had his contract terminated on 12 April for headbutting a member of club's security personnel reportedly after they refused to allow his friends entry inside the dressing room area.\n\nOn 5 July 2015, fellow Bundesliga team Hamburger SV confirmed Spahić as the team's newest player, signing a one-year contract lasting until June 2016. He credited the move to his compatriot, former Hamburg player Sergej Barbarez, and expressed gratefulness at being given a second chance after his expulsion from Leverkusen. He was released by the club on 3 January 2017.\n\nSpahić was the captain of the Bosnia and Herzegovina national team before initially announcing his retirement.\n\nOn 7 June 2003, he made his debut as a substitute against Romania at Stadionul Ion Oblemenco in Craiova.\n\nOn 28 February 2006, he scored his first international goal, in a friendly game against Japan, played in Dortmund.\n\nEver since his debut, he was an important member of the national team. He headed a ball into the box and assisted Ermin Bičakčić who scored a crucial equalizer versus Slovakia in Žilina during 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifiers. Bosnia and Herzegovina came back from one goal down in that game to win 2–1 and stay top of their qualifying group for ahead of Greece.\n\nSpahić retired from international football on 7 August 2014. After his retirement, Bosnia lost their first game of Euro 2016 qualifiers versus Cyprus (ranked 121 places behind Bosnia in FIFA Ranking for August 2014) without Spahić, which resulted in manager Safet Sušić calling him back from retirement on 22 September for the games that followed against Wales and Belgium. At the time, Bosnia's key defenders were either injured or lacked competitive matches for their clubs, which prompted in Spahić's call-up to the national side. Due to injury, he missed those two games and later returned to international stage against Israel on November 16 where he played the full game, his first since playing against Iran at the 2014 FIFA World Cup.\n\nOn 29 May 2016, he scored in a 3–1 friendly loss to Spain in St. Gallen, Switzerland, and was sent off before half time for an altercation with Cesc Fàbregas.\n\nSpahić is a Muslim. Spahićs father family is from Sandžak, and his mother is from Gacko. They met when they were both working in Dubrovnik. Emir has two brothers, the older being Nermin and younger one Alen, who is also a football player. Spahić is a first cousin of fellow national team player Edin Džeko.\n\nSpahić is a great lover of tennis, and has followed live matches in Dubai, Barcelona, Montpellier and Paris.\n\nSpahić is enrolled at the University of Sarajevo, majoring in sport and physical education.\n\nAside from his native Bosnian, Spahić speaks English, Spanish, French, German and Russian to varying degrees of fluency.\n\nZagreb\n\nLokomotiv Moscow\n\n"}
{"id": "13768757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13768757", "title": "Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent", "text": "Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent\n\nErythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESA) are medications which stimulates the bone marrow to make red blood cells. They are used to treat anemia due to end stage kidney disease, chemotherapy, major surgery, or certain treatments in HIV/AIDS. In these situations they decrease the need for blood transfusions. The different agents are more or less equivalent. They are given by injection.\nCommon side effects may include joint pain, rash, vomiting, and headache. Serious side effects may include heart attacks, stroke, increased cancer growth, or pure red cell aplasia. It is unclear if use is safe during pregnancy. They work similar to naturally occurring erythropoietin.\nThey were first approved for medical use in the United States in 1989. They are on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. Commercially available agents include epoetin alfa and darbepoetin alfa, as well as biosimilars. The wholesale cost of one version in the developing world, as of 2015, is about 3.80 USD per 2000 unit vial. In the United Kingdom this amount costs about 10 pounds as of 2015. Use among athletes is prohibited by the World Anti-Doping Agency.\n\nESAs are used to maintain hemoglobin at the lowest level that both minimizes transfusions and best meets a person's needs. Medical speciality professional organizations do not recommend the use of ESAs in people with chronic kidney disease (CKD) who have hemoglobin levels greater than 10 g/dL and do not have anemia symptoms.\n\nThere is no evidence that one agent is better than another in the setting of CKD.\n\nESAs may fail to achieve an adequate therapeutic response when one or more of the following is present:\n\nThe following types of ESAs are available:\n\nRecombinant erythropoietin has a variety of glycosylation patterns giving rise to alpha, beta, delta, and omega forms:\n\nDarbepoetin alfa, which early literature during its development often termed as novel erythropoiesis-stimulating protein (NESP), is a form created by five substitutions (Asn-30, Thr-32, Val-87, Asn-88 and Thr-90) that create two new N-glycosylation sites. This glycoprotein has a longer terminal half-life, meaning it is possible to administer it less frequently.\n\nErythropoiesis-stimulating agents have a history of use as blood doping agents in endurance sports, such as horseracing, boxing, cycling, rowing, distance running, race walking, snowshoeing, cross country skiing, biathlon, Mixed Martial Arts and triathlon. The overall oxygen delivery system (blood oxygen levels, as well as heart stroke volume, vascularization, and lung function) is one of the major limiting factors to muscles' ability to perform endurance exercise. Therefore, the primary reason athletes may use ESAs is to improve oxygen delivery to muscles, which directly improves their endurance capacity. With the advent of recombinant erythropoietin in the 1990s, the practice of autologous and homologous blood transfusion has been partially replaced by injecting erythropoietin such that the body naturally produces its own red cells. ESAs increase hematocrit (% of blood volume that is red cell mass) and total red cell mass in the body, providing a good advantage in sports where such practice is banned. In addition to ethical considerations in sports, providing an increased red cell mass beyond the natural levels reduces blood flow due to increased viscosity, and increases the likelihood of thrombosis and stroke. Due to dangers associated with using ESAs, their use should be limited to the clinic where anemic patients are boosted back to normal hemoglobin levels (as opposed to going above the normal levels for performance advantage, leading to an increased risk of death).\n\nThough EPO was believed to be widely used in the 1990s in certain sports, there was no way at the time to directly test for it, until in 2000, when a test developed by scientists at the French national antidoping laboratory (LNDD) and endorsed by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) was introduced to detect pharmaceutical EPO by distinguishing it from the nearly identical natural hormone normally present in an athlete's urine. The first EPO-doping cases were found by the Swiss Laboratory for Doping Analyses.\n\nIn 2002, at the Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City, Dr. Don Catlin, the founder and then-director of the UCLA Olympic Analytical Lab, reported finding darbepoetin alfa, a form of erythropoietin, in a test sample for the first time in sports. At the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Alex Schwazer, the gold medalist in the 50-kilometer race walk in the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, tested positive for EPO and was disqualified.\n\nSince 2002, EPO tests performed by US sports authorities have consisted of only a urine or \"direct\" test. From 2000–2006, EPO tests at the Olympics were conducted on both blood and urine. However, several compounds have been identified that can be taken orally to stimulate endogenous EPO production. Most of the compounds stabilize the hypoxia-inducible transcription factors which activate the EPO gene. The compounds include oxo-glutarate competitors, but also simple ions such as cobalt(II) chloride.\n\nInhalation of a xenon/oxygen mixture activates production of the transcription factor HIF-1-alpha, which leads to increased production of erythropoietin and improved performance. It has been used for this purpose in Russia since at least 2004.\n\nRecombinant EPO is believed to have come into use in cycling about 1990. In theory, EPO use can increase VOmax by a significant amount, making it useful for endurance sports like cycling. Italian antidoping advocate Sandro Donati has claimed that the history of doping in cycling can be traced to the Italian Dr Francesco Conconi at the University of Ferrara. Conconi had worked on the idea of giving athletes tranfusions of their own blood in the 1980s. Donati felt this work \"opened the road to EPO . . . because blood doping was a trial to understand the role of EPO\".\n\nDr Michele Ferrari, a former student and protege of Conconi, had a controversial interview mentioning the drug in 1994, just after his Gewiss-Ballan team had a remarkable performance in the La Flèche Wallonne race. Ferrari told \"l'Equipe\" journalist Jean-Michel Rouet that EPO had no \"fundamental\" effect on performance and that if his riders used it, it wouldn't \"scandalize\" himself. After the journalist pointed out several riders were suspected of dying from EPO, Ferrari said EPO was not dangerous, and only abuse of it was dangerous, saying, \"It's also dangerous to drink 10 liters of orange juice.\" The 'orange juice' comment has been widely misquoted. Ferrari was fired shortly after, but continued to work in the industry with top riders, allegedly including Lance Armstrong. That same year, Sandro Donati, working for the Italian National Olympic Committee, presented a report accusing Conconi of being linked to the use of EPO in the sport.\n\nIn 1997, the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) instituted a new rule that riders testing above 50% haematocrit were not only immediately disqualified, but banned from racing for two weeks. Robert Millar, former racer, later wrote for \"Cycling News\" that the 50% limit was \"an open invitation to dope to that level\", pointing out that normally haematocrit levels would start \"around 40-42%\" and drop during the course of a \"grand tour\", but after EPO, they were staying at 50% for \"weeks at a time\". By 1998, EPO use had become widespread, and the Festina affair tarnished the 1998 Tour de France. One manager offered a 270,000-franc-per-month raise to Christophe Bassons if he would use EPO, but Bassons refused.\n\nIn the 1998 Tour de France Stuart O'Grady won one stage, held the Tour de France yellow jersey for three days, and came second in the points classification with the assistance of EPO. In 2010, Floyd Landis admitted to using performance-enhancing drugs, including EPO, throughout his career as a professional cyclist. In 2012, the USADA released a report on its investigation into massive doping by the US Postal Service cycling team under the leadership of Lance Armstrong. The report contained affidavits from numerous riders on the team, including Frankie Andreu, Tyler Hamilton, George Hincapie, Floyd Landis, Levi Leipheimer, and others, outlining that they and Armstrong used a cocktail of performance-enhancing substances for the Tour de France, most notably EPO, during Armstrong's seven consecutive Tour wins. It detailed how Armstrong and the Postal manager, Johan Bruyneel, forced other team members to dope as well. It also went to the root of their doping network, targeting the shadowy doctors and back room enablers who helped cyclists procure and administer drugs as well as highly placed executives who helped to avoid doping controls and hide positive test results. Armstrong was subsequently stripped of all of his victories from 1998 onward—including his Tour wins and his performance in the 2000 Summer Olympics. The UCI concurred with the decision. While several of the doping offenses took place outside the normal eight-year statute of limitations for doping offenses, USADA contended the statute of limitations did not apply due to Armstrong's \"fraudulent concealment\" of his doping. Longstanding precedent in U.S. law holds that the statute of limitations does not apply in cases of fraudulent conduct by a defendant. In accordance with this decision, Tour organizers removed Armstrong's name and results from the race's history.\nWitnesses testified that code words used for EPO included \"Edgar\", \"Poe\", \"Edgar Allan Poe\", and \"Zumo\" (Spanish for 'juice').\n\nDynepo is the brand name for a form of EPO developed by Shire Pharmaceuticals. The first development steps were performed by HMR and Aventis. Aventis obtained the license in Europe in 2002. The company expected to launch the product in Europe in 2006, although patents held by the American biotechnology company Amgen, Inc. may have precluded its sale in the United States.\n\nDynepo was made in cultured human cells. It was therefore expected to have an authentic human form of sialic acid and other oligosaccharide residues. It was hoped that this would make a longer-acting product than existing brands. There were concerns that such production would also make Dynepo undetectable in the urine tests for EPO used, at that time, to detect doping by athletes. Dynepo was withdrawn from European markets on 17 February 2009 for commercial reasons. On July 1, 2009, professional cycling team announced that Thomas Dekker was tested positive for Dynepo on a test taken on December 24, 2007, while Dekker was riding for .\n"}
{"id": "12326459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12326459", "title": "Fast track (FDA)", "text": "Fast track (FDA)\n\nFast track is a designation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of an investigational drug for expedited review to facilitate development of drugs which treat a serious or life-threatening condition and fill an unmet medical need. Fast Track designation must be requested by the drug company. The request can be initiated at any time during the drug development process. FDA will review the request and attempt to make a decision within sixty days.\n\nFast Track is one of five Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approaches to make new drugs available as rapidly as possible: the others are priority review, breakthrough therapy, accelerated approval and Regenerative Medicine Advanced Therapy.\n\nFast Track was introduced by the FDA Modernization Act of 1997.\n\nFast track designation is designed to aid in the development and expedite the review of drugs which show promise in treating a serious or life-threatening disease and address an unmet medical need.\n\nSerious Condition: Determining whether a disease is serious is a matter of judgment, but generally is based on whether the drug will affect such factors as survival, day-to-day functioning, or the likelihood that the disease, if left untreated, will progress from a less severe condition to a more serious one.\n\nUnmet Medical Need: For a drug to address an unmet medical need, the drug must be developed as a treatment or preventative measure for a disease that does not have a current therapy. The type of information necessary to demonstrate unmet medical need varies with the stage of drug development: early in development, nonclinical data, mechanistic rationale, or pharmacologic data will suffice; later in development, clinical data should be utilized. If there are existing therapies, a fast track eligible drug must show some advantage over available treatment, such as:\n\n\nA drug that receives Fast Track designation is eligible for some or all of the following:\n\nAn FDA decision not to grant Fast Track status, or any other general dispute, may be appealed to the division responsible for reviewing the application within the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. The drug sponsor can subsequently utilize the Agency’s procedures for internal review or dispute resolution if necessary.\n\nOnce a drug receives Fast Track designation, early and frequent communication between the FDA and a drug company is encouraged throughout the entire drug development and review process. The frequency of communication assures that questions and issues are resolved quickly, often leading to earlier drug approval and access by patients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8484587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8484587", "title": "Flemish Quality Management Center", "text": "Flemish Quality Management Center\n\nThe Flemish Quality Management Center (Dutch: \"Vlaams Centrum voor Kwaliteitszorg\") (VCK) is a Flemish non-profit organization, which was founded on 28 September 1985. The organization wants to inspire and support Flemish companies to work and develop their capabilities in a competitive and efficient way, and inspired by the principles of total quality management (TQM). The aim of the organization is to achieve generalized knowledge and use of good management practices, innovation and quality awareness.\n\nThe company also administers the Kwinta Excellence Award which is the national quality award of Belgium.\n\n"}
{"id": "8935089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8935089", "title": "Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti", "text": "Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti\n\nChief Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, MON (; 25 October 1900 – 13 April 1978), otherwise known as Funmilayo Anikulapo-Kuti, was a teacher, political campaigner, women's rights activist and traditional aristocrat in Nigeria. She served with distinction as one of the most prominent leaders of her generation. She was also the first woman in the country to drive a car. Ransome-Kuti's political activism led to her being described as the doyen of female rights in Nigeria, as well as to her being regarded as \"The Mother of Africa.\" Early on, she was a very powerful force advocating for the Nigerian woman's right to vote. She was described in 1947, by the \"West African Pilot\", as the \"Lioness of Lisabi\" for her leadership of the women of the Egba people on a campaign against their arbitrary taxation. That struggle led to the abdication of the high king Oba Ademola II in 1949.\n\nKuti was the mother of the Nigerian activists Fela Anikulapo Kuti, a musician; Beko Ransome-Kuti, a doctor; and Professor Olikoye Ransome-Kuti, a doctor and health minister. She was also grandmother to musicians Seun Kuti and Femi Kuti. She is highly regarded in her native Nigeria for notable acts as an African woman.\n\nFrancis Abigail Olufunmilayo Thomas was born on 25 October 1900, in Abeokuta, to Chief Daniel Olumeyuwa Thomas and Lucretia Phyllis Omoyeni Adeosolu of the Jibolu-Taiwo family. Her father was a son of a returned slave from Sierra Leone (see Nova Scotian Settlers), who traced his ancestral history back to Abeokuta in what is today Ogun State, Nigeria. He became a member of the Anglican faith, and soon returned to the homeland of his fellow Egbas.\n\nShe attended Abeokuta Grammar School for her secondary education, and later went to England for further studies. She soon returned to Nigeria and became a teacher. On 20 January, 1925, she married the Reverend Israel Oludotun, Ransome-Kuti. He also defended the commoners of his country, and was one of the founders of both the Nigeria Union of Teachers and of the Nigerian Union of Students.. Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti organized literacy classes for Women in the early 1920s and founded a nursery school in the 1930s. She founded the Abeokuta Ladies' Club (ALC) for educated women involved in charitable work in 1942. She also started the social Welfare for Market Women club to help educate working-class women (which formed the first adult education program for women in Nigeria).\n\nRansome-Kuti received the national honour of membership in the Order of the Niger in 1965. The University of Ibadan bestowed upon her the honorary doctorate of laws in 1968. She also held a seat in the Western House of Chiefs of Nigeria as an \"Oloye\" of the Yoruba people.\n\nThroughout her career, she was known as an educator and activist. She and Elizabeth Adekogbe provided dynamic leadership for women's rights in the 1950s. Ransome-Kuti founded an organization for women in Abeokuta, with a membership tally of more than 20,000 individuals, spanning both literate and illiterate women.\n\nMain article: Abeokuta Women's Revolt\nRansome-Kuti launched the organization into public consciousness when she rallied women against price controls that were hurting the market women. Trading was one of the major occupations of women in the Western Nigeria at the time. In 1949, she led a protest against Native Authorities, especially against the Alake of Egbaland. She presented documents alleging abuse of authority by the Alake, who had been granted the right to collect the taxes by his colonial suzerain, the Government of the United Kingdom. He subsequently relinquished his crown for a time due to the affair. She also oversaw the successful abolishing of separate tax rates for women. In 1953, she founded the Federation of Nigerian Women Societies, which subsequently formed an alliance with the Women's International Democratic Federation. (See also National Council of Women's Societies.)\nFunmilayo Ransome Kuti campaigned for women's votes. She was for many years a member of the ruling National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons (NCNC) party, but was later expelled when she was not elected to a federal parliamentary seat. She was the treasurer and subsequent president of the Western NCNC Women's Association.\nAfter her suspension, her political voice was diminished due to the direction of national politics, as both of the more powerful members of the opposition, Awolowo and Adegbenro had her support close by. However, she continued her activism.\nIn the 1950s, she was one of the few women elected to the house of chiefs. At the time, this was one of her homeland's most influential bodies.\n\nShe founded the Egba or Abeokuta Women's Union along with Eniola Soyinka (her sister-in-law and the mother of the Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka). This organisation is said to have once had a membership of 20,000 women. Among other things, Ransome-Kuti organised workshops for illiterate market women. She continued to campaign against taxes and price controls.\n\nDuring the Cold War and before the independence of her country, Ransome-Kuti travelled widely and angered the Nigerian as well as British and American governments by her contacts with the Eastern Bloc. This included her travel to the former USSR, Hungary and China, where she met Mao Zedong. In 1956, her passport was not renewed by the government because it was said that \"it can be assumed that it is her intention to influence … women with communist ideas and policies.\" She was also refused a U.S. visa because the American government alleged that she was a communist.\n\nPrior to independence she founded the Commoners Peoples Party in an attempt to challenge the ruling NCNC, ultimately denying them victory in her area. She received 4,665 votes to the NCNC's 9,755, thus allowing the opposition Action Group (which had 10,443 votes) to win. She was one of the delegates who negotiated Nigeria's independence with the British government.\n\nIn old age her activism was overshadowed by that of her three sons, who provided effective opposition to various Nigerian military juntas.\nIn 1978 Ransome-Kuti was thrown from a third-floor window of her son Fela's compound, a commune known as the Kalakuta Republic, when it was stormed by one thousand armed military personnel. She lapsed into a coma in February of that year, and died on 13 April 1978, as a result of her injuries..\n\nOn Thursday, 30 August 2012, one of her grandsons, musician Seun Kuti, responded to questions from fans and friends on Channels Television, Nigeria’s platform via Google+. Saying that his grandmother was murdered by the Federal Government, Seun Kuti asked the Federal Government to apologise to his family for the death of Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, before considering immortalising her by putting her picture on the proposed N5000 note. As of 3 September 2012, the Nigerian government neither responded to his request nor apologized. Several protest groups formed on social media adding pressure for a government apology. The N5000 proposal was later withdrawn by the Nigerian government.\n\n\nFunmilayo Ransome-Kuti was portrayed in the 2014 film \"October 1\" by Deola Sagoe. \n\nShe is one of the most prominent figures in Nigerian history and inspired women across Nigeria through her brave acts and most notably her fight for women in the country. Some say that she paved the way for women in Nigeria to have better lives.\n\n"}
{"id": "42823179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42823179", "title": "George Diamandy", "text": "George Diamandy\n\nGeorge Ion Diamandy or Diamandi, first name also Gheorghe or Georges (February 27, 1867 – December 27, 1917), was a Romanian politician, dramatist, social scientist, and archeologist. Although a rich landowner of aristocratic background, he was one of the pioneers of revolutionary socialism in France and Romania, obtaining international fame as founder of \"L'Ère Nouvelle\" magazine. He was an early affiliate of the Romanian Social-Democratic Workers' Party, but grew disenchanted with its radical policies, and, as a member of its \"generous youth\" faction, played a major part in dissolving it. With other members of this reformist group, he joined the National Liberal Party, serving as one of its representatives in Chamber.\n\nAffected by heart disease from childhood, Diamandy had to maintain a low profile in politics, but was a vocal marginal within the National Liberal establishment. From 1910, he invested his energy in literature and cultural activism, chairing the National Theater Bucharest and later the Romanian Writers' Society. He was pushed back to the forefront during the early stages World War I, when he supported an alliance with the Entente Powers. He advised Premier Ion I. C. Brătianu on the matter and was sent on diplomatic missions to the West, helping to cement France's trust for Romania. He fought in the ill-fated campaign of 1916, and withdrew to Iași, retaking his seat in Chamber.\n\nDuring his final years, Diamandy became an advocate of democratic socialism, founding the Iași-based Labor Party and seeking the friendship of Russian Esers. The October Revolution caught him in Russia, but he escaped by way of Arkhangelsk, and died at sea while attempting to reach France.\n\nGeorge Diamandy was the brother and collaborator of diplomat Constantin I. Diamandy, and the posthumous grandfather of writer Oana Orlea. He is largely forgotten as a dramatist, but endures in cultural memory for his controversial politics and his overall eccentricity.\n\nGeorge Diamandy, the son of landowner Ion \"Iancu\" Diamandy and Cleopatra Catargiu, was born in Idrici, Vaslui County, or, by his own admission, in Bârlad. Several sources, including Diamandy's own account, give his birth date as February 27, 1867 (George Călinescu, the literary historian, has October 27). His brother, Constantin \"Costică\", was born in 1870. Constantin and George also had a sister, Margareta, later married Popovici-Tașcă.\n\nThe Diamandys, of Greek origins, had made a slow climb into the aristocracy of Moldavia and, later, the Kingdom of Romania. One branch of the family, who used the name variant \"Emandi\", produced diplomat Theodor Emandi. Iancu rose to high office, serving in Parliament and as Prefect of Tutova County. His wife Cleopatra belonged to the higher realms of the boyar aristocracy, and according to politician-memoirist Constantin Argetoianu, had passed her \"pride\" and \"airs\" to both her sons.\n\nGeorge, who always spoke Romanian with a thick and archaic Moldavian accent, was first enlisted in school at Bârlad. However, having been infected with malaria, he had to spend much of his childhood taking seaside cures in France. He then returned to study at the United Institutes High School in Iași, where he notably put out a clandestine student magazine, \"Culbecul\" (\"The Snail\"). As noted by Călinescu, he was \"absent-minded and rebellious.\" According to his own account, he was \"mediocre\", but \"read extensively outside the curriculum\". He disliked the school and claimed that it gave him rheumatism and heart problems.\nHis life course was changed by his discovery of socialism and proletarian internationalism, and he soon became their avid promoter. His brother had entirely different opinions in this respect, calling socialism \"a farce\". George and his best friend Arthur Gorovei founded their own Socialist Club, which only lasted a few days. Diamandy also published political articles in the review \"Contemporanul\" (the first one in 1887), following up with similar contributions to \"Munca\" and Raicu Ionescu-Rion's \"Critica Socială\". He neglected his schoolwork and, in his own words, passed his Baccalaureate \"more than anything because the professors were generous\".\n\nDiamandy also developed a passion for archeology, enjoying in particular the books of Gabriel de Mortillet and Theodor Mommsen. He camped out with Nicolae Beldiceanu in Cucuteni, where he helped on the inventory of the Cucuteni-Trypillian culture. Diamandy was also a member of the Bârlad National Romanian Committee, which gathered funds and artifacts for the Romanian delegation to the 1889 Exposition Universelle. He was working on a novel in the manner of Émile Zola, which, according to Gorovei, was over-detailed and boring.\n\nUpon graduation, Diamandy volunteered for service in the Romanian Land Forces, spending a year and a half as an artillery man. Disliked because of his pranks (\"which I for one found spirited\"), he was moved to the 7th Artillery Regiment in Călărași, and, because once there he complained about the mistreatment of regulars by the officers, spent several months in the disciplinary barracks. He notes: \"Just as I was ending my term as a volunteer, the captain, having learned that I had donned a civilian's outfit for a private party, ordered me in lockdown.—Lockdown meant no stove and no windows, so that's how I ended up with pneumonia.\"\n\nDiamandy went on to study Law at the University of Paris, but did very poorly, and was only granted half of his license; he completed the rest at Caen University. He pursued other scholarly interests, becoming a corresponding member of the \"Société Anthropologique\". He published notices on Cucuteni, as well as studies on Bulgarian handicrafts and a sketch of Romanian anthropological criminology. He also completed, in 1891, the historical demography tract \"Dépopulation et repeuplement de la France\" (\"The Depopulation and Repopulation of France\"). In parallel, he resumed his work in political journalism, with articles published in \"Le Journal\", \"La Petite République\", \"La Justice\", \"Le Socialiste\", and \"L'Art Social\".\n\nTaking over for the Romanian \"revolutionary socialist\" cell founded by Mircea and Vintilă Rosetti, he joined the \"internationalist revolutionary student group\" of the Latin Quarter, presided upon by Alexandre Zévaès. He was one of its delegates to the 1891 International Socialist Labor Congress in Brussels. According to his own account, he presided over the Congress proceedings. In December of that year, Diamandy sided with Zévaès' moderate leadership against the radical revolutionary minority. The next year, in May, having been elected President of the student group, he was also delegated to the socialist feminist congress, where he obtained a nominal submission of socialist women to the program of a future internationalist party. He and fellow Romanian expatriate Emil Racoviță were present at the Socialist and Labor Congress, convened at Zürich in 1893.\n\nOn July 1, 1893, Diamandy published the first issue of a \"monthly for scientific socialism\", \"L'Ère Nouvelle\" (\"The New Era\"). It viewed itself as both a literary and a sociological review: dedicated to promoting literary naturalism and historical materialism, openly provoking the reading public to explore the work of Zola, it attacked the \"reactionary\" critics. It also proudly called itself \"eclectic\". \"L'Ère Nouvelle\" hosted articles by Marxist thinkers from the various countries of Europe: primarily Friedrich Engels and Paul Lafargue, but also Georgi Plekhanov, Clara Zetkin, Karl Kautsky, Jean Jaurès, Gabriel Deville, and Jules Guesde. Its regular contributors included Constantin Dobrogeanu-Gherea, the Romanian Marxist doyen, Duc-Quercy, the French strike organizer, with the additional presence of Racoviță, Zévaès, Victor Jaclard, Alexandre Millerand, Adolphe Tabarant, Ilya Rubanovich, and Ioan Nădejde; Leó Frankel was the editorial secretary.\n\nAlso featured in the review, Georges Sorel was a senior syndicalist with Marxist leanings, not affiliated with either Guesde's French Workers' Party (POF) or Millerand's smaller socialist circle. Diamandy and Lafargue encouraged him to extend his forays into critical social history. According to Sorel's own claim, his presence there was only made possible when non-revolutionary French socialists like Millerand had decided to boycott \"L'Ère Nouvelle\".\n\nDiamandy's magazine was poorly reviewed by the sociological establishment: writing for the \"Revue Internationale de Sociologie\", André Voisin censured its \"violence\" and its \"quite glaring partiality\", but noted that some of the sociological pieces were \"at the very least moderate in form\". Sorel himself recalled: \"G. Diamandy [...] was at the time a ferociously orthodox Marxist [...]. He spent more time in the taverns of Montmartre than at University. He was a jolly good chap, entirely unreliable. I kept seeing him after that time, he was still in Mortmartre, and seemingly heading toward alcoholism.\" Reportedly, Diamandy was pulling pranks and farces on his socialist colleagues, even during their public functions.\n\nHowever, the publication itself had a significant, if indirect, impact on the French Left. Diamandy proudly noted that it was \"France's first Marxist magazine\". As historian Leslie Derfler writes, it was \"the first theoretical journal in France\" and an answer to \"Die Neue Zeit\"; for Sorel's disciples, it also signified a turn toward a \"more authentic\" and \"Latin\" Marxism. As Sorel himself indicated a while after, this meant a split with orthodox Marxism, for the sake of \"renewal\". Diamandy unwittingly enticed the conflicts between Sorel and the POF when he wrote in \"L'Ère Nouvelle\" that, according to Guesde, one need not have read Marx to become a Marxist.\n\n\"L'Ère Nouvelle\" only survived for a few months, publishing its final issue in November 1894, before closing down in early 1895. According to Sorel, Diamandy simply \"disappeared, leaving his magazine stranded\". Still, Diamandy managed to exert his direct influence over many other Romanian socialist students in France, from Racoviță and Nădejde to Alexandru Radovici, Constantin Garoflid, Deodat Țăranu, Dimitrie Voinov, and Ioan Cantacuzino.\n\nDiamandy personally sponsored the emerging socialist movement in the Kingdom of Romania. On his trips back to the country, he was welcomed as a celebrity at the socialist-run Sotir Hall, Bucharest, before affiliating with the Romanian Social-Democratic Workers' Party (PSDMR). This Marxist group was supportive of the mainstream National Liberal Party (PNL), as the latter had promised the introduction of universal male suffrage. At the 2nd PSDMR Congress in April 1894, Diamandy and Vasile Morțun had successfully campaigned for the introduction of such electoral demands into the party statute. When the PNL came to power and refused to follow through with its promise, a PSDMR faction agitated in favor of the opposition Conservative Party, even though the latter was explicitly right-wing. Writing for \"Munca\", Diamandy endorsed this view, suggesting that references to the PNL's progressivism be dropped from PSDMR's statute.\nIn partnership with Garabet Ibrăileanu, Diamandy edited for a while the PSDMR organ, \"Lumea Nouă\", exploring the possibility of returning to his home country. At \"Lumea Nouă\", he put out a brochure on \"Doctrina și tactica socialistă\" (\"Socialist Doctrine and Tactics\"). Involved with the PSDMR chapter in Brăila, he presented himself as a candidate in the parliamentary election of 1895, but lost. In 1898, he submitted to Romanian authorities the project of a \"Romanian anthropological exhibition\" at the 1900 Exposition Universelle.\n\nFollowing his father's death in 1898, Diamandy made his definitive return to Romania. By this time, the PSDMR was already showing the signs of a split into reformist, agrarian, and orthodox-Marxist camps. Diamandy was present at secretive meetings between PSDMR founders and the agrarian group of Ion Th. Banghereanu. Also present was Constantin Stere, the PSDMR's link with a left-leaning faction of the PNL, under Ion I. C. Brătianu. The reformists, distrustful of Banghereanu's sustained effort to spread socialism in rural areas, pushed for a schism: Morțun, Radovici, and, after a while, Diamandy himself, proposed that the entire PSDMR leadership leave the party and become PNL members.\n\nAs Diamandy notes, the conflict became a \"grave disagreement\", and led him to suspend himself from the party and return to Paris. It deepened when the PNL Premier, Dimitrie Sturdza, ordered Banghereanu's arrest on charges of sedition. Socialism was also threatened from within by disputes over Jewish emancipation, which polarized the PSDMR between antisemitism and Jewish nationalism. Diamandy witnessed a violent dispute in Iași, where, he claimed, the Jewish Romanian affiliates had been heard shouting \"Down with the Romanians!\" The antisemitic campaign was allegedly stoked by the PNL government, which sought to prove that the peasant agitation was a Jewish affair.\n\nThe moderate leadership continued to support PNL policies, even with Banghereanu jailed. At the 6th PSDMR Congress of April 1899, Diamandy and Morțun presented a motion to transform the party into a more moderate unit, called \"National Democratic\" or \"Progressive Democratic\". According to labor historian Constantin Titel Petrescu, the Congress was a sham, with many important activists absent, and with Jewish members stripped of their voting privileges, on Diamandy's own initiative. In his own view, Diamandy was still persuaded that \"intransigent\" socialism could eventually work in Romania, and considered methods to prolong the PSDMR's survival. Speaking at the Congress, he warned that the PSDMR was already an \"anti-Marxist\" group dedicated to a \"top-down revolution\", which had only managed to set up \"a socialist general staff\", and could not claim to have improved the workers' lives. The alternative, he argued, was class collaboration, which meant attracting \"into our ranks all better elements of the bourgeoisie\".\n\nThe most outspoken opponents of \"National Democratic\" plan were C. Z. Buzdugan, Alexandru Ionescu and I. C. Frimu, representatives of the urban underclass, who saw this as an \"attack\" against the PSDMR's Marxist credentials. Buzdugan claimed that Diamandy had expunged the very notion of class conflict from his readings of Marxism. He himself stretched the meaning of \"proletariat\" to cover not just the minor class of industrial workers, but also the mass of \"landless peasants\"; their interests, Buzdugan concluded, could only be served by a \"workers' party\". Many of those who opted for a \"workers' party\" resigned, while Diamandy's supporters announced that a new conference in June 1899 would transform theirs into a \"sincerely democratic party\".\n\nThe April Congress effectively destroyed the PSDMR. Diamandy, Morțun and their followers, collectively referred to as \"the generous youth\", resigned and joined the PNL. The PSDMR that survived through June was an informal political club, whose members included Buzdugan, Ionescu, and Panait Zosin. In later socialist historiography, this schism was seen as a victory for Stere and his Poporanist faction, who redirected the leftist vote toward the PNL. According to cultural historian Z. Ornea, the \"generous youth\" so efficiently adapted itself to the new environment, and Stere so poorly, that the rumor should be discounted. Diamandy himself was dismissive of his contribution: \"I entered the ranks of the liberal party, where I played a most silent and irrelevant part\".\n\nFollowing the \"Hallier Affair\", which tarnished the reputation of governing Conservatives, Diamandy took part in the unauthorized demonstrations which were broken up by Police. He registered with the 3rd Electoral College, hoping to represent the peasants of Tutova County. Finally elected to the Chamber (Assembly) of Deputies in the 1901 race, which returned the PNL to power, Diamandy challenged Petre P. Carp, the outgoing Premier, to an oratorical duel in Chamber, over the issue of deficit spending.\n\nAt around that time, he married Ștefania (or Safta), the daughter of Dumitru Simionescu-Râmniceanu. The latter was related by marriage to writer Duiliu Zamfirescu, and a probable inspiration for the avaricious and power-hungry characters in Zamfirescu's novels. Diamandy inherited from Simionescu-Râmniceanu the large estate of Sascut, but also a conflict over land with the local peasants. In May 1904, the local authorities stepped in to evacuate villagers who were demonstrating on Diamandy's property. The conflict was later investigated by Gorovei, the agricultural inspector for Tutova. He claims that Diamandy exploited his workers and broke all legislation.\n\nDiamandy's status as a rich estate owner left an enduring mark on his contemporaries. Historians and commentators made note of his eccentricity: Nicolae Iorga remembered Diamandy's \"old socialism\" as \"a seigniorial adventure\", while Eugen Lovinescu simply noted that Diamandy's aristocratic airs were \"incorrigible\". Also according to Lovinescu, Diamandy was \"a late-comer\" among enthusiastic Francophiles, one whose \"mind continued to live in Paris\". Călinescu describes him as \"an amateurish and sumptuous proletarian\". The same was later stated by Lucian Boia, who mentions Diamandy as a \"picturesque figure\" and \"perfect Francophile\", while noting his activity among the \"salon left\".\n\nDiamandy's socialist background and dealings with the Brătianu faction brought him to the forefront during the 1907 Peasants' Revolt: the fourth Sturdza cabinet, brought in to deal with the rebellion, resorted to handing out seats to Brătianu's circle, the Poporanists, and the \"generous youth\" alike. Diamandy was appointed Prefect of a war zone, Tecuci County, with specific orders that he was not to use the Land Forces against the peasants. He resigned in short while, citing health reasons. As he put it, in 1912: \"It was during the revolts that I contracted infectious influenza, which is still killing me about 6 times each year. The sedentary life that comes with disease is what pushed me to writing, and thus, out of boredom and being exasperated with my disease, I began collaborating with [the National Liberal newspapers] \"Voința Națională\" and \"Viitorul\".\"\n\nThe interval also prompted him to work on a fictionalized diary, \"Ne om\" (\"No Man\"), which records his anxiety in front of disease and impending doom. It saw print in 1908, with the editorial branch of \"L'Indépendence Roumaine\" daily. He had a prolific activity as a publicist, with articles in the central press, but also with political brochures that he signed using various pseudonyms—\"Gh. Despina\", \"Ion Marvila\", and \"Ne om\". Following the 1907 election, reconfirmed as deputy, Diamandy and the other \"generous\" parliamentarians became key players in the transition from a Sturdza cabinet to the first of seven Brătianu administrations. When it came about, in 1908, it was largely seen by the Conservatives as a covert socialist government, not least of all because of ambiguous statements made by Stere and Diamandy.\n\nThe fear of radicalized socialism peaked in December 1909, when Brǎtianu was attacked and wounded by Gheorghe Stoenescu, a deranged worker with anarchist sympathies. The opposition asked Diamandy and Ioan Nădejde to clarify whether they were still Marxists; they confirmed that they still viewed themselves as dialectical materialists, explaining their perspective as a kind of \"Darwinism\". Diamandy gave his endorsement to Stere's project of land reform, which was resisted by the Conservatives, as well as by Brătianu and Nădejde.\n\nDiamandy also believed it necessary to criticize the PNL from within. According to a 1911 retrospective in \"Noua Revistă Română\", he proved himself \"an \"enfant terrible\" of our politics\": \"He kept on admonishing Mr. Brătianu, even though it was him who had given him an eligible deputy seat. It was either that Mr. Brătianu is not democratic enough; or that Mr. Brătianu cannot organize his own party; neither of these seemed to please Mr. Diamandy. And Mr. Diamandy would always make sure to voice his opinion at the most inappropriate times.\"\n\nIn 1910, Diamandy published his first works in drama: a four-act play, \"Tot înainte\" (\"Carry On\"), and a \"dramatic sketch\", \"Bestia\" (\"The Beast\"). The latter was produced by the National Theater Bucharest, with Maria Filotti in the central role, and attracted much attention with its \"daring subject\". Diamandy did not join the Romanian Writers' Society, objecting to its antisemitism, and suggesting, in a letter to \"Noua Revistă Română\", that the professional association had admitted talentless authors. In articles he wrote for \"Facla\" and \"Semnalul\" newspapers, Diamandy openly advocated Jewish emancipation, against nationalist objections.\n\nIn 1910, Diamandy founded the weekly \"Revista Democrației Române\" (\"Review of Romanian Democracy\"), which, as a cultural and sociological venture, suggested a program of ethnographic studies in the Romanian villages, and printed an edition of \"Bestia\". Politically, \"Revista Democrației Române\" coagulated inner-PNL dissidence, accusing Brătianu of having turned reactionary. It hosted Diamandy's thoughts about reforming the 1866 Constitution: although he no longer demanded universal suffrage, he still saw it as a historical necessity farther down the line. Also featured was his maverick proposal to merge the breakaway Conservative-Democratic Party, a junior ally, into the PNL. These ideas were derided by the Conservative-Democrats at \"Noua Revistă Română\", who also noted that Diamandy's proposals were conspicuously serving the politically insignificant \"generous youth\".\n\nStere and the \"generous ones\" were noted contributors to the magazine, as were Constantin Banu, Ioan Bianu, Gheorghe Gh. Mârzescu, Constantin Alimănișteanu, Ioan Alexandru Brătescu-Voinești, and some of the committed Marxists. Outside this circle, Diamandy found himself isolated on the political scene, and was no longer proposed for an eligible seat in the elections of 1911, presenting a full report on his activities to his Tutova constituents. \"Revista Democrației Române\" survived until 1912, by which time Diamandy had decided to stay away from political journalism, \"since I only see fit to write as my conscience tells me to\".\n\nAnother of his plays, \"Dolorosa\", was taken up by the National Theater in 1911. The same year, Diamandy prefaced the collected works of a deceased socialist poet, Ion Păun-Pincio. By 1912, when his political satire \"Rațiunea de stat\" (\"The Reason of State\") was published in \"Flacăra\" review and taken up by Comoedia Troupe, Diamandy had been elected President of the Romanian Theatrical Society. However, Diamandy complained that his works were ignored by the National Theater, despite good referrals from writers Iacob Negruzzi and Zamfirescu. Alongside Radu D. Rosetti, he formed a Literary Circle at the rival Comoedia. Eventually joining the Writers' Society in 1911, he left it in 1913, but returned by popular demand in 1914.\n\nDiamandy bought himself a yacht, \"Spargeval\" (\"Breakwave\"), and sailed the Black Sea coast, writing on other plays. Soon, his attention focused on the \"Eastern Question\". In 1910, he returned from an extended trip through the Ottoman Empire, which is recorded in his travelogue, \"Impressions de Turquie\". On his way through Babadag, a traditional Turkish-and-Islamic center in Romania, Diamandy refurbished the local \"Tekke\", planting a new votive inscription over the tomb of Gazi Ali.\n\nTurning to nationalism during the Second Balkan War, Diamandy gave morale-supporting lectures to infantrymen of the Land Forces, having already prefaced a textbook of military pedagogy, by Colonel Gheorghe Șuer. In June 1913, he also wrote the foreword to a social geography tract by Major G. A. Dabija. The work as a whole was probably the first in history to justify Romania's colonization of Southern Dobruja, formerly in the Kingdom of Bulgaria. As later noted by Dabija, Diamandy's \"unofficial\" penmanship was required to divert attention from this being the expansionist policy of a Conservative government.\n\nIn 1913, under a PNL government headed by Ion I. C. Brătianu, Culture Minister Ion G. Duca appointed Diamandy Director of the National Theater. As Duca would claim in his memoirs, this was only \"to fulfill one of [Diamandy's] dreams\"—Diamandy, Duca writes, had \"an incorrigible mania for being or seeming original.\" He was only National Theater director for a few months, being replaced by his \"Revista Democrației Române\" colleague Brătescu-Voinești before the end of the 1913–1914 season; he returned for a second term later in 1914.\n\nThe time he spent in office only served to aggravate his colleagues in the theatrical business. One of them, Ioan Massoff, recalled that Diamandy had made a habit of citing his heart troubles to avoid seeing any of his subordinates, simply dictating his reform-minded wishes to them by proxy. Reportedly, Diamandy sacked the actor Vasile Leonescu for spite: Leonescu had criticized \"Rațiunea de stat\" as \"unworthy of being staged by Romania's top venue.\" Another actor, Ion Livescu, recalled that, although \"an enlightened democrat\", and \"well inspired\" in his choices for the repertoire, Diamandy played the part of an authoritarian, and only communicated through his secretary, Marin Simionescu-Râmniceanu. However, Livescu believes that Diamandy had good cause to ignore complaints and avoid quarrels.\n\nBy that stage in his career, Diamandy was contemplating the creation of a Romanian \"People's Theater\" for the benefit of peasants, the news of which sparked ridicule in the urban press. His own work for the stage underwent a change of style: also in 1914, he published in \"Flacăra\" the localized \"heroic comedy\" \"Chemarea codrului\" (\"Call of the Woods\"), written in the format of a \"comédie en vaudeville\". It premiered at his own National Theater, with Filotti as the female lead, and was an instant favorite of the public. The fantasy format of the play satisfied Diamandy, who went on to publish other plays and dramatic fragments: \"Strună cucoane\" (\"Hold on, Sire\"), \"Hămăiță\" (\"Barker\"), \"Regina Lia\" (\"Queen Lia\"), and the libretto for a children's opera, \"Gheorghiță Făt-Frumos\" (\"Gheorghiță Prince Charming\"), set to music by Alfons Castaldi.\n\nAfter the outbreak of World War I, Romania opted to preserve her neutrality, with public opinion divided between Francophile and Germanophile groups, respectively supportive of the Entente countries and the Central Powers. Francophilia showed up in his articles for various literary and political reviews, including his one-time contribution to \"Versuri și Proză\" magazine (September 1, 1914). This political stance was probably a factor in his 1914 election as president of the Writers' Society, as was his status as Theater manager. He combined both assignments, collecting grants for the writers through Theater benefits, and selling Romanian books through a special booth in the Theater's foyer.\n\nDiamandy's mandate came to an end in August 1915, when he assigned his seat to Alexandru Mavrodi. As Livescu notes: \"when it seemed to him that there would not be many people who could understand him [...], he put his hat on, and, having just lectured us so very passionately about that France of his, left us all, with a cold and jerky salute from the top of the stairs: 'Good day y'all!'\"\n\nDiamandy's enthusiasm for intervention was held back by reports that Romania risked going into war without proper weapons and ammunition. With this in mind, he and Constantin Istrati were sent to Italy by Premier Brătianu, and successfully negotiated a treaty of mutual assistance between the two neutral countries. He also visited traditionally-hostile Bulgaria, and claimed to have obtained assurances from Prime Minister Vasil Radoslavov that she would not join the Central Powers. His brother Constantin Diamandy, noted for his highly optimistic combative stance and his martial attire, became one of Brătianu's confidants. During his diplomatic missions, he had also informed the government, reassuringly, about the goings-on in Bulgaria, and acted as liaison with the Russian Empire.\n\nFor a while, Diamandy was affiliated with the trans-party \"National Action\", which, under Take Ionescu and Nicolae Filipescu, sought to bring Romania into the Entente. In January 1915, he was the group's envoy to France, but acted as an informal delegate for Brătianu. He was welcomed by the Franco–Romanian Friendship Committee and by Paul Deschanel personally. His erstwhile associate, Georges Sorel, commented that Deschanel must have been misinformed: \"[Diamandy] must really be thinking that Paris is a capital for the rent-seekers, since now they take him seriously. If Romania had had an honest intent to strike a deal with us, it would have surely picked herself some other negotiator. Evidently P. Deschanel was not aware of Diamandy's character.\"\n\nDiamandy also had a meeting with Raymond Poincaré, the President of France. He may have informed him about Radoslavov's promises, which Diamandy still took for granted, and which may explain Poincaré's overly confident support for Romania in later Entente conferences. However, the talk also covered the issue of Romania's grievances toward Russia, which still prevented her for entering the war. He introduced this enigma to Poincaré: \"Romania looks forward to France's victory and to Russia's defeat\" (\"see Franco-Russian Alliance\"). At one of the banquets in his honor, Diamandy divulged the existence of a parallel Franco–Romanian alliance, and stressed \"that R[o]mania's entry into the war would result in the conflict's end.\"\n\nDiamandy gave a public report on the world conflict and how it fit with Romania's national interest at the National Liberal Party Center of Studies. It was published, in 1916, with assistance from the Romanian Academy. The same year, he prefaced (as \"Giorgio Diamandy\") Federico Valerio Ratti's monograph on \"Latin Romania\", published in Florence by I Libri d'Oggi. Other such pieces were taken up by various newspapers and magazines, including \"Universul\", \"L'Indépendence Roumaine\", and \"Rampa\". He also put out a complete collection of his novellas.\n\nReturning to Chamber after the 1914 elections, Diamandy participated in the heated sessions of December 1915. He voiced the mainstream opinion of the PNL in open disputes with the Conservative Petre P. Carp. He rejected Carp's fears that a victorious Russia looked set to occupy the Danube Delta, but also noted that he himself had reserves about bringing Romania into the war, and made public his resignation from the \"National Action\". This effectively returned him to the PNL's mainstream, where he continued to campaign in favor of going to war. Nevertheless, Diamandy also supported his former ally, Stere, who was being heckled by the other deputies for suggesting that an alliance against Russia was in Romania's benefit.\n\nEventually, in summer 1916, Premier Brătianu discarded his reservations, and Romania entered the war as an Entente country. While Constantin became tasked with ensuring a direct Russian military involvement and military aid for the Romanian Front, George again volunteered for military service. He was reputedly enrolled as a private, but was seen traveling with his own orderly. He was detached to the Second Army commandment in the Southern Carpathians, where he held conference with General Alexandru Averescu and other officers. Averescu remembered him as a shady figure, not worthy of his trust, and noted in particular Diamandy's ideas about using expanding bullets against the Austro-Hungarian Army (which had reportedly initiated their use in combat). Diamandy saw action in the front-line trenches, but was still plagued by his lung and heart problems, and was eventually sent to a hospital behind the lines. By then, the Diamandys' forecasts about Bulgarian neutrality and Romanian readiness for war proved misguided, with Romania suffering a scathing defeat in the Battle of Turtucaia.\n\nAfter losing the Battle of Bucharest in December 1916, the Romanian Land Forces withdrew into Moldavia, which, with Russian help, they defended against renewed Central Powers offensives. Diamandy was also moved to Iași, the provisional capital, where Brătianu's government and the Parliament had relocated. He took back his Chamber seat, and, as the poor management of war weakened support for Brătianu, went on public record with his criticism.\n\nThe February Revolution in Russia reopened the path toward radical socializing reforms, and pushed Diamandy back into socialist politics. Brătianu promised land reform and a new electoral law, but Diamandy and other dissenting PNL-ists were not appeased: they claimed that the government had lost its \"moral right\" to apply such legislation, and obstructed it repeatedly. According to Duca's hostile account, the February Revolution gave Diamandy the illusion that time had come for him \"to play a great role\", and that the \"tyrannical\" Brătianu was an embarrassment for the Russian democracy. Duca also claims that, despite his \"laughable exhibitions\" in favor of land reform, Diamandy could never conceive of completely redistributing property from the landowners to the peasants.\n\nBy April 1917, Diamandy had formed his own parliamentary party, called Labor Party (\"Partidul Muncei\"). It had the radical agrarianist Nicolae L. Lupu for a co-chairman, with Grigore Iunian, Ioan Cantacuzino, Grigore Trancu-Iași, Constantin Ion Parhon, Mihail Macavei, Grigore Filipescu and Alexandru Slătineanu as regular members. Diamandy himself authored the central manifesto, published as a brochure. As Duca writes, the ailing dramatist was parading in a socialist's uniform: \"a sort of Russian worker's blouse, his boots on, quite like an authentic comrade just arrived from some soviet\". He was \"evidently ridiculous\", \"acutely megalomaniac\", driven to \"a pathological state\" by the urgency of his heart disease. The Minister of Agriculture, Gheorghe Gh. Mârzescu, was also disturbed by Diamandy's behavior, writing: \"George Diamandi, thinking about ways to support the ideas of the Labor Party, born from personal ambitions stoked by the Russian revolution, imagined that he should necessarily show up in Chamber in Tolstoy's costume. This operetta thing is produced for the benefit of peasants.\"\n\nIn his private diaries, General Averescu recalls his meeting with an anxious King Ferdinand in the small town of Moinești. The monarch looked into \"the growth of a socialist movement in our country\", and had left Iași because \"socialists and young liberals, under G. Diamandy, are supposedly in contact with the Russian revolutionaries\". The account is also supported by Duca. According to him, Diamandy and Lupu had revived their contacts with the old socialists, as well as with Russian Esers, with whose backing they intended to set up a Romanian \"democratic government\"; their project for a revolution was bogged down when the \"pragmatic\" Russians discovered that the Labor Party was politically insignificant and \"oligarchic\". The Labor faction also branched into neighboring Bessarabia, using the revolutionary agent Ilie Cătărău for an emissary. Nevertheless, the Laborites supported the calls for order, reacting against Russian soldiers and Romanian civilians who demanded a \"Romanian republic\".\n\nAccording to Arthur Gorovei, the Labor Party should be regarded as George Diamandy's \"final prank\". In June 1917, following the renewed offensive of the Central Powers, Diamandy became a refugee to Russia, where his brother Constantin was Romanian Ambassador. He was trapped on Russian territory during the October Revolution, events which his brother downplayed in his reports to Brătianu. The Revolution took Russia out of the war and signaled the start of a Russian–Romanian diplomatic war: Constantin was held in captivity by the Council of People's Commissars, and eventually expelled.\n\nGeorge Diamandy fled to the White Sea port of Arkhangelsk, where he embarked on the ship \"Kursk\", bound for France. \"Kursk\" also transported some 3,000 returning members of the Czechoslovak Legion and some 300 French governesses. On the stormy night of December 27, 1917, off the coast of Shetland, Diamandy suffered a fatal attack of angina (or myocardial infarction). As noted by Călinescu: \"his coffin was buried at sea, while a choir formed by hundreds of Czechs sang, as an homage.\"\n\nDiamandy's death was received with indifference by the Germanophiles and wearied intellectuals in Bucharest. In his obituary for \"Scena\" magazine, dramatist A. de Herz referred to the deceased as an unpatriotic man of \"ferocious egotism\", claiming that his leadership of the National Theater had been \"dismal\". The mood changed soon after the November 1918 Armistice, which sealed the Entente's victory on the Western Front, and returned Romanian Francophiles to high favor. Diamandy's last play, \"Una dintr-o mie\" (\"One in a Thousand\"), was performed by the National Theater in 1919.\n\nPresided upon by Lupu, the Labor Party continued to be active in the opposition, fought against the signing of peace with the Central Powers, and presented its own candidates in the 1918 election. Some of its members were already defecting to the People's League or rejoining the PNL, while the Laborite leadership considered an alliance with the Socialist Party. It eventually merged into Stere's Peasants' Party, which became one of the PNL's leading opponents in the early interwar period. Stere himself rekindled memories of Diamandy by making him a secondary character, \"Raul Dionide\", in the 1930s novel \"În preajma revoluției\".\n\nThe marriage between George and Ștefania Diamandy produced a son, Ion \"Iancușor\" (1905–1935), and two daughters, Georgeta and Anca. Unusually, they would both be successively married to the same man: aviator Constantin \"Bâzu\" Cantacuzino, son of the Conservative politico Mihail G. Cantacuzino and of Maruca Rosetti. Georgeta's marriage to Cantacuzino produced one daughter, the writer Oana Orlea (Maria-Ioana Cantacuzino).\n\nDiamandy is often regarded as a very minor contributor to Romanian literature. According to Lovinescu, he was as much a \"dilettante\" here as in archeology and socialism, \"cerebral\", but lacking \"artistic intuition\". The same was noted by writer Florin Faifer, who assesses that Diamandy \"was not in fact a virtuoso\" of drama, losing himself in musings that range \"from art to politics and the economy.\" C. Georgescu Munteanu of \"Luceafărul\" condemned \"Rațiunea de stat\" as \"a pointless work\", the dramatization of such \"a commonplace fact\" that the public could not bring itself to applaud it. \"Una dintr-o mie\" also evidenced this problematic style. According to Faifer, its humorous intent was \"tortured, burdened by vulgarities.\" As noted in 2007 by historian Mihai Sorin Rădulescu, Diamandy the dramatist had been \"entirely forgotten\".\n\nInspired by the works of Henrik Ibsen, \"Tot înainte\" depicts life in the fictional arms industry of Clermont-Ferrand. The young industrialist Jean Héquet intervenes to save the livelihoods of his employees, taking over management from his intransigent father. As a political manifesto, it seemingly favors class collaboration, but, as Călinescu notes, \"seems to be rather communistic in spirit.\" According to Massoff, it was read as \"a play with socialist undertones\". In \"Bestia\", called by Călinescu \"an intellectual play with a confusing exposition\", the divorcée Ninetta Coman displays her seemingly visceral misandry. Her viciousness is confronted by an idealistic husband, who (Faifer notes) is an \"artificial\" character. Towards the end of the play, Ninetta is revealed to have been the long-suffering victim of sexual violence, and to have undergone a voluntary hysterectomy. In \"Dolorosa\", Lovinescu reads echoes from D'Annunzio. It shows the duel of wits between two painters and a woman of their company: she loves the one who does not love her back.\n\nCritics were generally more lenient toward \"Chemarea codrului\". Massoff calls it \"one of the good Romanian plays\". Lovinescu welcomed its imprecision, which parted with the staples of historical drama while preserving \"the national atmosphere\"; the result being \"a hajduk legend\" admitting \"poetry and idealism.\" Călinescu sees \"Chemarea\" as Diamandy's \"only reasonably valid play\", but \"false\" in content and \"embarrassing\" with its depiction of sexual controversy. Localized in medieval Rădeana, it alludes to the rape of Anca, a virtuous young woman, by marauding Tatars. Although dishonored under the shame culture of that period, she is defended by the young nobleman, Ioniță, who elopes with her into the surrounding woods.\n\nAccording to Faifer, Diamandy's other writings display a taste for \"the picturesque\" and \"the unforeseen\". These include \"Ne om\", but also his travelogue, his hunting stories, and his novellas. The latter works show bohemian society and the rural elite at their most decadent, subject to illusions and violent passions.\n\n"}
{"id": "9951927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9951927", "title": "Hai-Genti", "text": "Hai-Genti\n\nThe Hai-Genti are a fictional alien species that appear in the game Maelstrom\n\nThe species that are known as the Hai-Genti evolved and built a civilization thousands of years before humanity developed society, language or culture. This would all happen on their distant homeworld of Proxima Centauri where they quickly developed a golden age for their race. However, this was not to last, as their rapid growth gradually destroyed the delicate ecological balance of their homeworld. Should a solution not be found then their race would have faced extinction.\n\nCivil war was the result of this discovery which broke out between those that wished to save themselves as a species and those who desired nothing but power and domination. Luckily for the Hai-Genti, the former won the war and attempted to delve into organic forms of technology through gene-engineering in an effort to save their planet. But it was far too late and their world was a dying planet. Instead, the race decided to relocate to a new more prosperous world and discovered one which was known to the natives as Earth.\n\nThe true nature of the Hai-Genti is unknown as their years of engineering their organisms and themselves makes it uncertain what the original race appeared as. However, an early video trailer of the game revealed a bipedal reptilian looking creature present on the battlefield which may have been what the Hai-Genti themselves appear as.\n\nThey were originally not a psionic species but developed this potential through artificial engineered means by the Overseer. This also resulted in the race becoming more akin to a hive mind rather than separate individuals as the psionic abilities allowed each and every Hai-Genti to be linked to one another.\n\nThe Hai-Genti as they are currently are far different from what their species were originally. This is because of the years in gene engineering and organic evolution which has, in essence, created a synthetic species that uses living beings as tools for different tasks. The Hai-Genti have become masters in bio-weaponry and its usage in conquering the environment which allows them to use the native flora as well as fauna to their advantage. This was all done so in an effort to achieve a single racial goal - survival of their kind.\n\nDue to their extensive use of living technology, the Hai-Genti require a high use of water which is a vital requirement for their roles. So much so that their battle tactics revolve around using techniques such as flooding a region to ensure that they achieve an advantage over the native Humans, who they see as a lesser species and unworthy of control of their planet.\n\nThe Overseer is essentially the heart of the Hai-Genti race and serves as a powerful intelligence that guides the race in their invasion of Earth. The creature, like most of their races technology, is a living breathing entity and was one of the first creations of their kind. The Overseer is, in essence, an organic super computer that was created to aid in the engineering of other races and appears as a large mound of translucent brain tissue that pulses with bio-processing fluid.\n\nThe Overseer was responsible for discovering the secrets of psionic potential and unlocked it in the Hai-Genti's genetic code allowing them to use such abilities. This had the added benefit of linking the entire species and their creations into a single group mind.\n\nThough the creature is not immortal, it is impervious to the effects of time and is able to upload its consciousness to a new body thanks to the psionic network it developed. This had the added benefit of the Overseer achieving a sense of wisdom through its experience and the memories of the many ages it lived through. It is a result of this vital role it plays within its society that prevents it from being on the front line and is always found hidden in its protective shelter where it guides and advises the Hai-Genti's forces.\n\nMammon was a scientist on the Hai-Genti homeworld and was the first to discover that their planet was dying. It was also Mammon who led a group of like-minded intellects in their attempt to warn their people of this approaching disaster. Despite his efforts, he faced much opposition from the warlord Auriga, who controlled a fourth of the planet. This eventually led to battle between the two as well as civil war which lasted for many years with countless lives being lost but in the end, Auriga was defeated. \n\nMammon then focused his efforts in attempting a rebirth of the Hai-Genti homeworld through the use of bio-engineering of various life forms, as well as his race themselves, but it was far too late. It was thus decided by the race that they would find a new homeworld and Mammon would be the first who willingly uploaded his mind into the psychic buffers on board the starship Caucus.\n\nAn ancient cruel and malicious dictator who was a mighty warlord on the Hai-Genti homeworld. Auriga controlled more than one fourth of the planet in his time with his bloodlust and acts of wanton destruction making him a feared and dangerous opponent to face. His reign would slowly come to an end when he made war against Mammon who advocated in attempting to save their homeworld.\nCivil war was the result which would end in Auriga's defeat and the simple choice of surrendering or dying. He decided to surrender but vowed to kill Mammon when the opportunity arose for the transgressions he made against the warlord. When the Hai-Genti homeworld was abandoned for a more prosperous planet, Auriga downloaded his mind into the psychic buffers of the Hai-Genti starship Caucus. For centuries his mind has remained there, growing in anger and greed while awaiting the opportune moment to strike against his enemy - Mammon.\n\nA special servant of the Overseer that floats above the ground. The Psyclade is a psychic Hai-Genti that can manipulate organic matter with a simple glance or a mere thought. It is possible the Overseer copied its ability to erect a force field from this organic form, as the Psyclade Hai-Genti can create a force field, as well as send a shockwave through the ground surrounding it. Its one and only purpose is to serve the Overseer, and it will die trying to accomplish this goal.\n\nThe Hai-Genti are one of the few races that have developed a completely different approach in the way of technology. This is entirely based on living creatures constructed through sophisticated biological engineering which serve a variety of purposes from beasts of burden to war organisms. As such, these creatures are capable of remarkable feats from simple melee strikes to kill enemies to energy weapons being generated to destroy enemy vehicles.\n\nThe race has also developed the ability to travel the stars as evidenced by their mothership the Caucus which sends spores down to the planet they are conquering in an effort to aid in the terraforming of the world.\n\n\nThe main hub for all Hai-Genti activities. When they first arrived on Earth, Mammon, Auriga and the Overseer had a discussion on their methods of how to take over Earth in the first Inception Spore. Mammon has the authority to call a new Inception Spore from the Mothership. The Inception Spores are always seen near a Biomass Farm, and are usually surrounded by Hai-Genti.\n\nBuilt over Survivor Compounds, where humans have taken refuge, Biomass Compounds produce Bio-Thralls by mutating the humans it was built over and releasing them once transformed. Biomass Farms are always seen near an Inception Spore, and can mainly be expected to be surrounded by Bio-Thralls.\n\nA special breed of Hai-Genti that live underground. While normally they cannot be beamed down from the Mothership, it is possible to summon them from their earthy home with a Progenitor. Once released, the great worm bursts from the ground in a spray of dirt and rock, attacking all who oppose it. However, its eyes are very weak from living under the ground, and it soon burrows back down into the welcome darkness, giving the enemy a final attack by spraying them with acid slime.\n\nThe objects which all Hai-Genti life forms hatch from. Eggs are beamed down from the Mothership, where the contents of the egg is then released to serve the Overseer. The larger the creature, the larger the egg must be. This explains why the Titan is released as it is: no egg could contain its massive body.\n\n"}
{"id": "10212371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10212371", "title": "Helen Fairchild", "text": "Helen Fairchild\n\nHelen Fairchild (November 21, 1885 – January 18, 1918) was an American nurse who served as part of the American Expeditionary Force during World War I, and who became known for her wartime letters to her family in the U.S., which vividly depicted the realities of combat nursing during World War I. She died of post-operative complications after surgery for a gastric ulcer while on duty with British base hospital #10/#16 on the Western Front.\n\nHelen was born in Turbot Township, Milton, in central Pennsylvania to Ambrose and Adda Dunkle Fairchild in 1885. She was the fourth of seven children and worked on the family farm in her earlier years. In 1913, Fairchild graduated from Pennsylvania Hospital and worked as a nurse. After the United States joined World War I, Fairchild and 63 other nurses from the hospital volunteered for the American Expeditionary Forces.\n\nIn May 1917, Fairchild sailed from New York to London, and then went on to her posting in France at the Pennsylvania Base Hospital No. 10 at Le Treport, arriving in June 1917. She volunteered for front-line duty for the Third Battle of Ypres and moved to a casualty clearing station in Dozinghem . She served as a combat nurse and was exposed to heavy shelling including the use of mustard gas. On the night of 17 August, the casualty clearing station was bombed by German aircraft and the medical staff were evacuated back to Le Treport.\n\nFairchild had a medical history of abdominal pain, which worsened after her combat experience. By Christmas 1917 she was vomiting after every meal. X-rays revealed that a large gastric ulcer was obstructing her pylorus. She underwent surgery for the ulcer on January 13, 1918. At first she recovered well but then lapsed into a coma and died five days later. The post-mortem examination suggested that she died as a result of hepatic complications from the chloroform used as the anesthesia during her operation, possibly worsened by her previous exposure to mustard gas.\n\nShe was buried with full military honours in a cemetery in Le Treport and later shifted to Somme American Cemetery and Memorial in Bony, France.\n\nThe Nurses' Post of the American Legion in Philadelphia was named the Helen Fairchild Nurses' Post #412 in her honor. She is registered in the Women in Military Service for America Memorial at Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia.\n\nThe Watsontown, Pa., bridge was named the Nurse Helen Fairchild Memorial Bridge. It is an arched bridge over 1,000 feet long, over the West Branch of the Susquehanna River. It is on the National Trust for its construction and design.\n\nA plaque on a stand is located in Belgium near the village of West Vleteran, not far from Poperinge. It stands just outside the wall of Dozinghem British Military Cemetery, the former location of Nurse Helen's casualty clearing station No. 4 from June to November 1917. The plaque shows her portrait and gives her history in English and Dutch. The plaque was unveiled and placed in August 2010. The unveiling was attended by a number of high ranking Belgian and other officials, including a representative of the American Embassy and the villagers from West Vleteren. A monk from nearby St. Sixtus Monastery walked over to see what was taking place.\n\nNelle Rote was present at the naming of Nurse Helen Fairchild Memorial Bridge, and\npresent at unveiling of plaque for Helen at Dozinghem Cemetery, Belgium\n\n"}
{"id": "20120811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20120811", "title": "Ibutamoren", "text": "Ibutamoren\n\nIbutamoren () (developmental code names MK-677, MK-0677, L-163,191; former tentative brand name Oratrope) is a potent, long-acting, orally-active, selective, and non-peptide agonist of the ghrelin receptor and a growth hormone secretagogue, mimicking the growth hormone (GH)-stimulating action of the endogenous hormone ghrelin. It has been shown to increase the secretion of several hormones including GH and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and produces sustained increases in the plasma levels of these hormones without affecting cortisol levels.\n\nIbutamoren has been shown to sustain activation of the GH–IGF-1 axis and to increase lean body mass with no change in total fat mass or visceral fat. It is under investigation as a potential treatment for reduced levels of these hormones, such as in children or elderly adults with growth hormone deficiency, and human studies have shown it to increase both muscle mass and bone mineral density, making it a promising potential therapy for the treatment of frailty in the elderly. As of June 2017, ibutamoren is in the preclinical stage of development for growth hormone deficiency.\n\nSince MK-677 is still a Investigational New Drug, it should be noted that it has not yet been approved to be marketed for consumption by humans in the United States. However, it has been used experimentally by some in the bodybuilding community. Since it chemically mimics the hormone ghrelin, it functions as a neuropeptide in the central nervous system and crosses the blood-brain-barrier. According to some recent research and discussion, there is a concern that it's particularly longer half-life might over-stimulate the ghrelin receptors in the brain and lead to some harmful mental side effects. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30418740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30418740", "title": "Individualist anarchism in France", "text": "Individualist anarchism in France\n\nIndividualist anarchism refers to several traditions of thought within the anarchist movement that emphasize the individual and his or her will over external determinants such as groups, society, traditions, and ideological systems.\n\nIndividualist anarchism in France has developed a line of thought that starts from the pioneering activism and writings of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and Anselme Bellegarrigue in the mid 19th century. In the early 20th century it produced publications such as \"L'EnDehors\", \"L'Anarchie\" and around its principles it found writers and activists such as Emile Armand, Han Ryner, Henri Zisly, Albert Libertad and Zo d'Axa. In the post-war years there appeared the publication \"L'Unique\" and activist writers such as Charles-Auguste Bontemps. In contemporary times it has found a new expression in the writings of the prolific philosopher Michel Onfray.\n\nFrench individualist anarchism was characterized by an eclectic set of currents of thought and practices which included freethought, naturism, free love, anti-militarism and illegalism.\n\nPierre-Joseph Proudhon (1809–1865) was the first philosopher to label himself an \"anarchist.\" Some consider Proudhon to be an individualist anarchist, while others regard him to be a social anarchist. Some commentators reject this, noting his preference for association in large industries, rather than individual control. Nevertheless, he was influential among American individualist anarchists; in the 1840s and 1850s, Charles A. Dana, and William B. Greene introduced Proudhon's works to the United States. Greene adapted Proudhon's mutualism to American conditions and introduced it to Benjamin R. Tucker.\n\nProudhon opposed government privilege that protects capitalist, banking and land interests, and the accumulation or acquisition of property (and any form of coercion that led to it) which he believed hampers competition and concentrates wealth. Proudhon favored the right of individuals to retain the product of their labor as their own property, but believed that all other property was illegitimate. Thus, he saw private property as both essential to liberty and a road to tyranny, the former when it resulted from labor and was required for labor and the latter when it resulted in/from exploitation (profit, interest, rent, tax). He generally termed the former \"possession\" and the latter \"property.\" For large-scale industry, he supported workers associations to replace wage labor and opposed land ownership.\n\nProudhon maintained that workers should retain the entirety of what they produce, and that monopolies on credit and land are the forces that prohibit this. He advocated an economic system he called mutualism that included possession and exchange of private property but without profit. Joseph Dejacque explicitly rejected Proudhon's philosophy, instead preferring anarchist-communism, asserting directly to Proudhon in a letter that \"it is not the product of his or her labor that the worker has a right to, but to the satisfaction of his or her needs, whatever may be their nature.\" An individualist rather than anarchist communist, Proudhon said that \"communism...is the very denial of society in its foundation...\" and famously declared that \"property is theft!\" in reference to his rejection of ownership rights to land being granted to a person who is not using that land.\n\nProudhon originated mutualism, an anarchist school of thought, envisioning a society where each person might possess a means of production, either individually or collectively, with trade representing equivalent amounts of labor in the free market. Integral to the scheme was the establishment of a mutual-credit bank which would lend to producers at an interest rate only high enough to cover the costs of administration. Mutualism is based on a labor theory of value which holds that when labor or its product is sold, in exchange, it ought to receive goods or services embodying \"the amount of labor necessary to produce an article of exactly similar and equal utility\". Some mutualists believe that if the state did not intervene, as a result of increased competition in the marketplace, individuals would receive no more income than that in proportion to the amount of labor they exert. Mutualists oppose the idea of individuals receiving income through loans, investments, and rent, as they believe these individuals are not laboring. Some of them argue that if state intervention ceased, these types of incomes would disappear due to increased competition in capital. Though Proudhon opposed this type of income, he expressed: \"... I never meant to ... forbid or suppress, by sovereign decree, ground rent and interest on capital. I believe that all these forms of human activity should remain free and optional for all.\"\n\nInsofar as they ensure workers' rights to the full product of their labor, mutualists support markets and private property. However, they argue for conditional title to land, whose private ownership is legitimate only so long as it remains in use or occupation (which Proudhon called \"possession.\") Proudhon's Mutualism supports labor-owned cooperative firms and associations for \"we need not hesitate, for we have no choice. . . it is necessary to form an ASSOCIATION among workers . . . because without that, they would remain related as subordinates and superiors, and there would ensue two . . . castes of masters and wage-workers, which is repugnant to a free and democratic society\" and so \"it becomes necessary for the workers to form themselves into democratic societies, with equal conditions for all members, on pain of a relapse into feudalism.\" Mutualist opinions differs on whether capital goods (man-made, non-land, \"means of production)\" should be commonly managed public assets or private property.\n\nMutualists originally considered themselves to be libertarian socialists. However, \"some mutualists have abandoned the labor theory of value, and prefer to avoid the term \"socialist.\" But they still retain some cultural attitudes, for the most part, that set them off from the libertarian right.\" Mutualists have distinguished themselves from state socialism, and don't advocate social control over the means of production. Benjamin Tucker said of Proudhon, that \"though opposed to socializing the ownership of capital, [Proudhon] aimed nevertheless to socialize its effects by making its use beneficial to all instead of a means of impoverishing the many to enrich the few...by subjecting capital to the natural law of competition, thus bringing the price of its own use down to cost.\"\n\nAnselme Bellegarrigue was a French individualist anarchist, born between 1820 and 1825 in Toulouse and presumed dead around the end of the 19th century in Central America.\n\nCatalan historian of individualist anarchism Xavier Diez reports that during his travels in the United States \"he at least contacted (Henry David) Thoreau and, probably (Josiah) Warren.\" (see individualist anarchism in the United States).\n\nHe participated in the French Revolution of 1848, was author and editor of \"Anarchie, Journal de l'Ordre\" and \"Au fait ! Au fait ! Interprétation de l'idée démocratique\". He participated in the French Revolution of 1848, was author and editor of \"Anarchie, Journal de l'Ordre\" and \"Au fait ! Au fait ! Interprétation de l'idée démocratique\" and wrote the important early Anarchist Manifesto in 1850.\n\nFor anarchist historian George Woodcock \"Bellegarrigue stood near to Stirner at the individualist end of the anarchist spectrum. He dissociated himself from all the political revolutionaries of 1848, and even Proudhon, whom he resembled in many of his ideas and from whom he derived more than he was inclined to admit.\" Bellegarrigue's \"conception of revolution by civil disobedience suggests that in America\nBellegarrigue may have made contact with at least the ideas of (Henry David) Thoreau\".\n\n\"At times Bellegarrigue spoke in the words of solipsistic egoism. \"I deny everything; I affirm only myself... I am, that is a positive fact. All the rest is abstract and falls into Mathematical X, into the unknown... There can be on earth no interest superior to mine, no interest to which I owe even the partial sacrifice of my interests.\" Yet in apparent contradiction, Bellegarrigue adhered to the central anarchist tradition in his idea of society as necessary and natural and as having \"a primordial existence\".\n\nJean-Baptiste Louiche, Charles Schæffer and Georges Deherme edited the individualist anarchist publication \"Autonomie Individuelle\" that ran from 1887 to 1888.\n\nIntellectuals such as Albert Libertad, André Lorulot, Emile Armand, Victor Serge under the pseudonym \"Le Retif\", Zo d'Axa and Rirette Maitrejean extended the theory in France's main individualist anarchist journal, \"L'Anarchie\" in 1905 and later in \"EnDehors\". Outside this journal, Han Ryner wrote \"Petit Manuel individualiste\" (1903).\n\nHenri Zisly, Emile Gravelle and Georges Butaud promoted anarchist naturism. Butaud was an individualist \"partisan of the \"milieux libres\", publishing \"Flambeau\" (\"an enemy of authority\") in 1901 in Vienna. He focused on creating and participating in anarchist colonies.\n\n\"In this sense, the theoretical positions and the vital experiences of french individualism are deeply iconoclastic and scandalous, even within libertarian circles. The call of nudist naturism, the strong defense of birth control methods, the idea of \"unions of egoists\" with the sole justification of sexual practices, that will try to put in practice, not without difficulties, will establish a way of thought and action, and will result in sympathy within some, and a strong rejection within others.\"\n\nAlphonse Gallaud de la Pérouse, (28 May 1864, Paris – 30 August 1930) better known as Zo d'Axa (), was an adventurer, anti-militarist, satirist, journalist, and founder of two of the most legendary French magazines, \"L'EnDehors\" and \"La Feuille\". A descendant of the famous French navigator Jean-François de Galaup, comte de Lapérouse, he was one of the most prominent French individualist anarchists at the turn of the 20th century.\n\nHe founded the anarchist newspaper \"L'EnDehors\" in May 1891 in which numerous contributors such as Jean Grave, Louise Michel, Sébastien Faure, Octave Mirbeau, Tristan Bernard and Émile Verhaeren developed libertarian ideas. D'Axa and \"L'EnDehors\" rapidly became the target of the authorities after attacks by Ravachol and d'Axa was kept in jail in Mazas Prison. An individualist and aesthete, d'Axa justified the use of violence as an anarchist, seeing propaganda of the deed as akin to works of art. Anarchists, he wrote, \"had no need to hope for distant better futures, they know a sure means of plucking the joy immediately: destroy passionately!\" \"It is simple enough.\", d'Axa proclaimed of his contemporaries, \"If our extraordinary flights (\"nos fugues inattendues\") throw people out a little, the reason is that we speak of everyday things as the primitive barbarian would, were he brought across them.\" D'Axa was a bohemian who \"exulted in his outsider status\", and praised the anti-capitalist lifestyle of itinerant anarchist bandit precursors of the French illegalists. He expressed contempt for the masses and hatred for their rulers. He was an important anarchist interpreter of the philosophy of individualist anarchist Max Stirner, defender of Alfred Dreyfus and opponent of prisons and penitentiaries. D'Axa remains an influential anarchist theorist for anti-work sentiment.\n\nIllegalism developed primarily in France, Italy, Belgium, and Switzerland during the early 1900s as an outgrowth of Stirner's Individualist anarchism. Illegalists typically did not seek moral basis for their actions, recognizing only the reality of \"might\" rather than \"right\". They advocated illegal acts to satisfy personal needs and desires, not a larger ideal, although some committed crimes as a form of direct action or propaganda of the deed .\n\nInfluenced by Stirner's egoism as well as Proudhon's \"property is theft\", Clément Duval and Marius Jacob proposed the theory of individual reclamation.\n\nIllegalism first rose to prominence among a generation of Europeans inspired by the unrest of the 1890s. Ravachol, Émile Henry, Auguste Vaillant, and Caserio committed daring crimes in anarchism's name. France's Bonnot Gang was the most famous group to embrace illegalism.\n\nGerman individualist philosophers Max Stirner and Friedrich Nietzsche were influential in French individualist anarchism. The influence of the thought of Max Stirner can be seen in this way: \"The theoretical positions and the vital experiences of french individualism are deeply iconoclastic and scandalous, even within libertarian circles. The call of nudist naturism (see anarcho-naturism), the strong defense of birth control methods, the idea of \"unions of egoists\" with the sole justification of sexual practices, that will try to put in practice, not without difficulties, will establish a way of thought and action, and will result in sympathy within some, and a strong rejection within others.\" Emile Armand 's stirnerist egoism (as well as his Nietzschetianism) can be appreciated when he writes in \"Anarchist Individualism as Life and Activity (1907)\" when he says anarchists \"are pioneers attached to no party, non-conformists, standing outside herd morality and conventional 'good' and 'evil' 'a-social'. A 'species' apart, one might say. They go forward, stumbling, sometimes falling, sometimes triumphant, sometimes vanquished. But they do go forward, and by living for themselves, these 'egoists', they dig the furrow, they open the broach through which will pass those who deny archism, the unique ones who will succeed them.\"\n\nAnarchist naturism appeared in the late 19th century as the union of anarchist and naturist philosophies. Mainly it had importance within individualist anarchist circles\n\nAnarcho-naturism advocated vegetarianism, free love, nudism, hiking and an ecological world view within anarchist groups and outside them. Anarcho-naturism promoted an ecological worldview, small ecovillages, and most prominently nudism as a way to avoid the artificiality of the industrial mass society of modernity. Naturist individualist anarchists saw the individual in his biological, physical and psychological aspects and tried to eliminate social determinations.\n\nFor the influential French anarchist Élisée Reclus naturism \"was at the same time a physical means of revitalization, a report with the body completely different from hypocrisy and taboos which prevailed at the time, a more convivial way to see life in society, and an incentive to a respect of the planet. Thus naturism develops in France, in particular under the influence of Elized Reclus, at the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, among anarchistic communities resulting from utopian socialism.\" n France later important propagandists of anarcho-naturism Henri Zisly and Emile Gravelle who collaborated in \"La Nouvelle Humanité\" followed by \"Le Naturien\", \"Le Sauvage\", \"L'Ordre Naturel\", & \"La Vie Naturelle\" Their ideas were important in individualist anarchist circles in France but also in Spain where Federico Urales (pseudonym of Joan Montseny), promotes the ideas of Gravelle and Zisly in \"La Revista Blanca\" (1898–1905).\n\nThe influence of naturist views in the wider French anarchist movement could be seen in this way. \"In her memoir of her anarchist years that was serialized in \"Le Matin\" in 1913, Rirette Maîtrejean made much of the strange food regimens of some of the compagnons...She described the \"tragic bandits\" of the Bonnot gang as refusing to eat meat or drink wine, preferring plain water. Her humorous comments reflected the practices of the \"naturist\" wing of individualist anarchists who favored a simpler, more \"natural\" lifestyle centered on a vegetarian diet. In the 1920s, this wing was expressed by the journal \"Le Néo-Naturien, Revue des Idées Philosophiques et Naturiennes\". Contributors condemned the fashion of smoking cigarettes, especially by young women; a long article of 1927 actually connected cigarette smoking with cancer! Others distinguished between vegetarians, who foreswore the eating of meat, from the stricter \"vegetalians,\" who ate nothing but vegetables. An anarchist named G. Butaud, who made this distinction, opened a restaurant called the Foyer Végétalien in the nineteenth arrondissement in 1923. Other issues of the journal included vegetarian recipes. In 1925, when the young anarchist and future detective novelist Léo Malet arrived in Paris from Montpellier, he initially lodged with anarchists who operated another vegetarian restaurant that served only vegetables, with neither fish nor eggs. Nutritional concerns coincided with other means of encouraging health bodies, such as nudism and gymnastics. For a while in the 1920s, after they were released from jail for antiwar and birth-control activities, Jeanne and Eugène Humbert retreated to the relative safety of the \"integral living\" movement that promoted nude sunbathing and physical fitness, which were seen as integral aspects of health in the Greek sense of \"gymnos\", meaning nude. This back-to-nature, primitivist current was not a monopoly of the left; the same interests were echoed by right-wing Germans in the interwar era. In France, however, these proclivities were mostly associated with anarchists, insofar as they suggested an ideal of self-control and the rejection of social taboos and prejudices.\"\n\nHenri Zisly (born in Paris, November 2, 1872 died in 1945) was a french individualist anarchist and naturist. He participated alongside Henri Beylie and Emile Gravelle in many journals such as \"La nouvelle humanité\" and \"La Vie naturelle\", which promoted anarchist-naturism. In 1902 he is one of the main initiators along Georges Butaud and Sophie Zaïkowska of the cooperative \"Colonie de Vaux\" established in Essômes-sur-Marne, in l'Aisne. Zisly dedicated \"His political activity, primarily...at supporting a return to \"natural life\" through writing and practical involvement, stimulated lively confrontations within and outside the anarchist environment. Zisly vividly criticized progress and civilization, which he regarded as \"absurd, ignoble, and filthy.\" He openly opposed industrialization, arguing that machines were inherently authoritarian, defended nudism, advocated a non-dogmatic and non-religious adherence to the \"laws of nature,\" recommended a lifestyle based on limited needs and self-sufficiency, and disagreed with vegetarianism, which he considered \"anti-scientific.\" \n\nJoseph Albert (known as Albert Libertad or Libertad) was an individualist anarchist militant and writer from France who edited the influential anarchist publication \"L'Anarchie\". During the Dreyfus affair, he founded the Anti-Militarist League (1902) \"and, along with Paraf-Javal, founded the \"Causeries populaires\", public discussions that met with great interest throughout the country, contributing to the opening of a bookstore and various clubs in different quarters of Paris\". \"L'Anarchie\"(, \"anarchy\") along with Libertad had as contributors to the journal Émile Armand, André Lorulot, Émilie Lamotte, Rirette Maitrejean, Raymond Callemin, and Victor Serge (who wrote unde the pseudonym \"Le Retif\"). 484 editions were published between April 13, 1905 and July 22, 1914\n\nOn the occasion of the July 14 anniversary, \"L'Anarchie\" \"printed and distributed the manifesto \"The Bastille of Authority\" in one hundred thousand copies. Along with feverish activity against the social order, Libertad was usually also organizing feasts, dances and country excursions, in consequence of his vision of anarchism as the \"joy of living\" and not as militant sacrifice and death instinct, seeking to reconcile the requirements of the individual (in his need for autonomy) with the need to destroy authoritarian society. In fact, Libertad overcame the false dichotomy between individual revolt and social revolution, stressing that the first is simply a moment of the second, certainly not its negation. Revolt can only be born from the specific tension of the individual, which, in expanding itself, can only lead to a project of social liberation. For Libertad, anarchism doesn't consist in living separated from any social context in some cold ivory tower or on some happy communitarian isle, nor in living in submission to social roles, putting off the moment when one puts one's ideas into practice to the bitter end, but in living as anarchists here and now, without any concessions, in the only way possible: by rebelling. And this is why, in this perspective, individual revolt and social revolution no longer exclude each other, but rather complement each other.\"\n\nFreethought as a philosophical position and as activism was important in french individualist anarchism. \"Anticlericalism, just as in the rest of the libertarian movement, is another of the frequent elements which will gain relevance related to the measure in which the (French) Republic begins to have conflicts with the church...Anti-clerical discourse, frequently called for by the french individualist André Lorulot, will have its impacts in \"Estudios\" (a Spanish individualist anarchist publication). There will be an attack on institutionalized religion for the responsibility that it had in the past on negative developments, for its irrationality which makes it a counterpoint of philosophical and scientific progress. There will be a criticism of proselitism and ideological manipulation which happens on both believers and agnostics.\". This tendencies will continue in French individualist anarchism in the work and activism of Charles-Auguste Bontemps and others.\n\nEmile Armand was an influential French individualist anarchist, free love/polyamory and pacifist/antimilitarist propagandist and activist. He wrote for such anarchist magazines as \"L'Anarchie\" and \"EnDehors\". His thought was mainly influenced by such thinkers as Stirner, Benjamin Tucker, and American Transcendentalism. Outside France he was an important influence in Spanish anarchist movements, above all in the individualist publications \"Iniciales\", \"Al Margen\" and \"Nosotros\". He defended the Ido constructed language over Esperanto with the help of José Elizalde.\n\nIn 1922, Armand established another publication with the title \"EnDehors\" just as the one published before by Zo d'Axa Armand promoted individual freedom, feminism, free love and anarchism. Because of World War II the publication of the \"En-Dehors\" was stopped in October 1939.\n\nArmand contrasted his IA with social anarchist currents, rejecting revolution. He argued that waiting for revolution meant delaying the enjoyment of liberty until the masses gained awareness and will. Instead he advocated living under one's own conditions in the present time, revolting against social conditioning in daily life and living with those with an affinity to oneself in accord to the values and desire they share. He says the individualist is a \"presentist\" and \"he could not, without bad reasoning and illogic, think of sacrificing his being, or his having, to the coming of a state of things he will not immediately enjoy\". He applies this rule to friendship, love, sexual encounters and economic transactions. He adheres to an ethics of reciprocity and advocated propagandizing one's values to enable association with others to improve the chances of self-realization.\n\nArmand advocated free love, naturism and polyamory in what he termed \"la camaraderie amoureuse\". He wrote many propagandist articles on this subject advocating not only a vague free love but also multiple partners, which he called \"plural love.\" \"'The camaraderie amoureuse thesis,' he explained, 'entails a free contract of association (that may be annulled without notice, following prior agreement) reached between anarchist individualists of different genders, adhering to the necessary standards of sexual hygiene, with a view toward protecting the other parties to the contract from certain risks of the amorous experience, such as rejection, rupture, exclusivism, possessiveness, unicity, coquetry, whims, indifference, flirtatiousness, disregard for others, and prostitution.'\".\n\nGérard de Lacaze-Duthiers (26 January 1876 - 3 May 1958) was a French writer, art critic, pacifist and anarchist. Lacaze-Duthiers, an art critic for the Symbolist review journal \"La Plume\", was influenced by Oscar Wilde, Nietzsche and Max Stirner. His (1906) \"L'Ideal Humain de l'Art\" helped found the 'Artistocracy' movement - a movement advocating life in the service of art. His ideal was an anti-elitist aestheticism: \"All men should be artists\". Together with André Colomer and Manuel Devaldes, he founded \"L'Action d'Art\", an anarchist literary journal, in 1913. He was a contributor to the \"Anarchist Encyclopedia\". After World War II he contributed to the journal \"L'Unique\".\n\nHan Ryner was a French individualist anarchist philosopher and activist and a novelist. He wrote for publications such as \"L'Art social\", \"L'Humanité nouvelle\", \"L'Ennemi du Peuple\", \"L'Idée Libre de Lorulot\"; and \"L'En dehors\" and \"L'Unique\". His thought is mainly influenced by stoicism and epicureanism.\n\nHe defines individualism as \"the moral doctrine which, relying on no dogma, no tradition, no external determination, appeals only to the individual conscience.\". He distinguishes \"conquering and aggressive egoists who proclaim themselves to be individualists\" from what he called \"harmonic individualists\" who respected others. He admired Epicurus' temperance and that \"he showed that very little was needed to satisfy hunger and thirst, to defend oneself against heat and the cold. And he liberated himself from all other needs, that is, almost all the desires and all the fears that enslave men.\". He celebrated how Jesus \"lived free as a wanderer, foreign to any social ties. He was the enemy of priests, external cults and, in general, all organizations.\"\n\nFrench individualist anarchists grouped behind Emile Armand, published \"L'Unique\" after World War II. \"L'Unique\" went from 1945 to 1956 with a total of 110 numbers. Apart from Armand other writers in it included Gérard de Lacaze-Duthiers, Manuel Devaldès, Lucy Sterne, Thérèse Gaucher and others. Within the synthesist anarchist organization, the Fédération Anarchiste, there existed an individualist anarchist tendency alongside anarcho-communist and anarchosyndicalist currents. Individualist anarchists participating inside the Fédération Anarchiste included Charles-Auguste Bontemps, Georges Vincey and André Arru. The new base principles of the francophone Anarchist Federation were written by Charles-Auguste Bontemps and the anarcho-communist Maurice Joyeux which established an organization with a plurality of tendencies and autonomy of federated groups organized around synthesist principles. Charles-Auguste Bontemps was a prolific author mainly in the anarchist, freethinking, pacifist and naturist press of the time. Jean-René Saulière (also René Saulière) (Bordeaux, September 6, 1911- January 2, 1999) was a French anarcho-pacifist, individualist anarchist and freethought writer and militant who went under the pseudonym André Arru. During the late 1950s he establishes inside the Fédération des Libres Penseurs des Bouches du Rhône, the Group Francisco Ferrer and in 1959 he joins the Union des Pacifistes de France (Union of Pacifists of France). From 1968 to 1982, Arru alongside the members of the Group Francisco Ferrer publishes \"La Libre Pensée des Bouches du Rhône\".\n\nIn 2002, an anarchist, Libertad organized a new version of the \"L'EnDehors\", collaborating with \"Green Anarchy\" and including contributors such as Lawrence Jarach, Patrick Mignard, Thierry Lodé, Ron Sakolsky, and Thomas Slut. Articles about capitalism, human rights, free love and social fights were published. \"The EnDehors\" continues now as a website, EnDehors.org.\n\nCharles-Auguste Bontemps (1893–1981) was a French individualist anarchist, pacifist, freethinker and naturist activist and writer. He was an important personality in the foundation of the francophone Anarchist Federation. The new base principles of the francophone Anarchist Federation were written by Bontemps and Maurice Joyeux which established an organization with a plurality of tendencies and autonomy of federated groups organized around synthesist principles. He also participates in the refoundation of the francophone Anarchist Federation in 1953. Around 1967 Bontemps alongside Maurice Joyeux and Guy Bodson on the francophone Anarchist Federation's journal \"Le Monde libertaire\" had an exchange of criticism with the Situationist International to which he was responded by Guy Debord and others on that organization.\n\nHe was a prolific author mainly in the anarchist, freethinking, pacifist and naturist press of the time. His view on anarchism was based around his concept of \"Social Individualism\" on which he wrote extensively. He defended an anarchist perspective which consisted on \"a collectivism of things and an individualism of persons.\"\n\nThe prolific contemporary French philosopher Michel Onfray has been writing from an individualist anarchist perspective influenced by Nietzsche, French post-structuralists thinkers such as Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze; and Greek classical schools of philosophy such as the Cynics and Cyrenaics. Among the books which best expose Onfray's individualist anarchist perspective include \"La sculpture de soi : la morale esthétique\" (The sculpture of oneself: aesthetic morality), \"La philosophie féroce : exercices anarchistes\", \"La puissance d'exister\" and \"Physiologie de Georges Palante, portrait d'un nietzchéen de gauche\" which focuses on French individualist philosopher Georges Palante.\n\nFor him, \"There is in fact a multitude of ways to practice philosophy, but out of this multitude, the dominant historiography picks one tradition among others and makes it the truth of philosophy: that is to say the idealist, spiritualist lineage compatible with the Judeo-Christian world view. From that point on, anything that crosses this partial – in both senses of the word – view of things finds itself dismissed. This applies to nearly all non-Western philosophies, Oriental wisdom in particular, but also sensualist, empirical, materialist, nominalist, hedonistic currents and everything that can be put under the heading of \"anti-Platonic philosophy\"\" \"His mission is to rehabilitate materialist and sensualist thinking and use it to re-examine our relationship to the world. Approaching philosophy as a reflection of each individual's personal experience, Onfray inquires into the capabilities of the body and its senses and calls on us to celebrate them through music, painting, and fine cuisine.\"\n\nHe adheres to an ethics based on hedonism which he views \"as an introspective attitude to life based on taking pleasure yourself and pleasuring others, without harming yourself or anyone else.\" \"Onfray's philosophical project is to define an ethical hedonism, a joyous utilitarianism, and a generalized aesthetic of sensual materialism that explores how to use the brain's and the body's capacities to their fullest extent -- while restoring philosophy to a useful role in art, politics, and everyday life and decisions.\" His philosophy aims \"for \"micro-revolutions, \" or revolutions of the individual and small groups of like-minded people who live by his hedonistic, libertarian values.\" Recently Michel Onfray has embraced the term postanarchism to describe his approach to politics and ethics. He advocates for an anarchism in line with such intellectuals as \"Orwell, \"la philosophe\" Simone Weil, Jean Grenier, \"la French Theory avec\" Foucault, Deleuze, Bourdieu, Guattari, Lyotard, \"le\" Derrida \"de\" \"Politiques de l'amitié\" et du \"Droit à la philosophie\", \"mais aussi\" Mai 68\" which for him was \"a nietzschean revolt in order to put an end to the \"One\" truth, revealed, and to put in evidence the diversity of truths, in order to make disappear ascetic Christian ideas and to help arise new possibilities of existence\" \n\nOnfray also continues the tradition of freethought and atheism within French individualist anarchism. He wrote the best seller \"\". \"It is divided into four parts: atheology, monotheisms, Christianity and theocracy...As Onfray details the myth and bloody history of monotheistic religions, he concludes that monotheism in general, and the religious beliefs of the major players on the Middle Eastern and Western stages in particular, have two ideologies in common: extinguishing the light of reason and total investment in death\".\n\n\n\"La sculpture de soi : la morale esthétique\" (1991)\n\"Politique du rebelle : traité de résistance et d'insoumission\" (1997)\n\"Théorie du corps amoureux : pour une érotique solaire\" (2000)\n\"L'invention du plaisir : fragments cyréaniques\" (2002)\n\"Traité d'athéologie : Physique de la métaphysique\", Paris, Grasset, (2005); English translation by Jeremy Leggatt as \"Atheist Manifesto: The Case Against Christianity, Judaism, and Islam\" (New York: Arcade Publishing, 2007)\n\"La puissance d'exister\", (2006) Grasset, \n\n\n"}
{"id": "194742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194742", "title": "Japanese submarine I-52 (1942)", "text": "Japanese submarine I-52 (1942)\n\n, code-named was a Type C-3 cargo submarine of the Imperial Japanese Navy used during World War II for a secret mission to Lorient, France, then occupied by Germany, during which she was sunk.\n\nShe is also known as Japan's \"Golden Submarine\", because she was carrying a cargo of gold to Germany as payment for matériel and technology. There has been speculation that a peace proposal to the Allies was contained on board the \"I-52\" as well, but this is unlikely on two counts: there is no evidence that the Japanese government was interested in peace proposals or negotiated settlements at that stage in the war; and the Japanese kept an open dialogue with their diplomatic attachés via radio and diplomatic voucher through Russia, and had no need for long and uncertain transfer via a submarine bound for a Nazi-controlled area of western Europe.\n\nIt is believed that 800 kg (1,760-lbs) of uranium oxide awaited \"I-52\" for her return voyage at Lorient according to Ultra decrypts. It has been speculated that this was for the Japanese to develop a radiological weapon (a so-called \"dirty bomb\") for use against the United States. (The amount of unenriched uranium oxide would not have been enough to create an atomic bomb, though if used in a nuclear reactor it could have created poisonous fission products).\n\nShe was also to be fitted with a snorkel device at Lorient. In addition, 35 to 40 tons of secret documents, drawings, and strategic cargo awaited \"I-52\"s return trip to Japan: T-5 acoustic torpedoes, a Jumo 213-A motor used on the long-nosed Focke-Wulf Fw 190D fighter, radar equipment, vacuum tubes, ball bearings, bombsights, chemicals, alloy steel, and optical glass.\n\nThis class of submarines was designed and built by Mitsubishi Corporation, between 1943 and 1944, as cargo carriers. They were quite long and carried a crew of up to 94. They also had a long cruising range at a speed of . The Japanese constructed only three of these submarines during World War II (\"I-52\", and ), although twenty were planned. They were the largest submarines ever built at that time, before the enormous \"Sentoku\" subs were built, and were known as the most advanced Japanese submarines of their time.\n\nThe keel of \"I-52\" was laid on 18 March 1942, and she was commissioned on 28 December 1943 into the 11th submarine squadron. After training in Japan she was selected for a \"Yanagi\" (exchange) mission to Germany.\n\nYanagi missions were enabled under the Axis Powers' Tripartite Pact to provide for an exchange of strategic materials and manufactured goods between Germany, Italy and Japan. Initially, cargo ships made the exchanges, but when that was no longer possible submarines were used.\n\nOnly five other submarines had attempted this intercontinental voyage during World War II: (April 1942), (June 1943), (October 1943), (November 1943), and (August 1943). Of these, \"I-30\" was sunk by a mine, \"I-34\" by the British submarine , and \"I-29\" by the United States submarine (assisted by Ultra intelligence).\n\nOn 10 March 1944, on her maiden voyage, \"I-52\" (Commander Uno Kameo) departed Kure via Sasebo for Singapore. Her cargo from Japan included 9.8 tons of molybdenum, 11 tons of tungsten, 2.2 tons of gold in 146 bars packed in 49 metal boxes, 3 tons of opium and 54 kg of caffeine. The gold was payment for German optical technology. She also carried 14 passengers, primarily Japanese technicians, who were to study German technology in anti-aircraft guns, and engines for torpedo boats.\n\nIn Singapore she picked up a further 120 tons of tin in ingots, 59.8 tons of caoutchouc (raw rubber) in bales and 3.3 tons of quinine, and headed through the Indian Ocean, to the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nOn 6 June 1944, the Japanese naval attaché in Berlin, Rear Admiral Kojima Hideo, signaled the submarine that the Allies had landed in Normandy, thus threatening her eventual destination of Lorient on the coast of France. She was advised to prepare for Norway instead. She was also instructed to rendezvous with a German submarine on 22 June 1944 at 21:15 (GMT) at the co-ordinates . \"I-52\" responded with her position, being . The message was intercepted and decoded by US intelligence; \"I-52\" had been closely watched all the way from Singapore. Guided by the F-21 Submarine Tracking Room and F-211 \"Secret Room\" of the Tenth Fleet which was in charge of the Atlantic section, a hunter-killer task force was targeted towards her.\n\nOn the night of 22 June 1944 about west of the Cape Verde Islands off the coast of Africa, \"I-52\" rendezvoused with , a Type IXC/40 U-boat commanded by Kapitänleutnant Kurt Lange. \"U-530\" provided her with fuel, and also transferred a Naxos FuMB 7 radar detector, and an Enigma coding machine, along with two radar operators, Petty Officers Schulze and Behrendt, and German liaison officer for the trip through the Bay of Biscay.\n\nA US task force assembled as a submarine hunter-killer group, consisting of the escort carrier USS \"Bogue\" and five destroyer escorts, en route to the United States from Europe, was ordered to find and destroy the Japanese submarine. This task force departed from Casablanca on 15 June 1944, and was commanded by Captain Aurelius B. Vosseller. It also had 9 General Motors FM-2 Wildcats and 12 Grumman TBF-1C Avenger of VC-69 on board. The task force, on its way from Hampton Roads to Casablanca, had sunk another Japanese submarine, the Type IX \"RO-501\" (formerly \"U-1224\") on 13 May 1944. This was a very effective force, sinking 13 German and Japanese submarines between February 1943 and July 1945.\n\nThe five destroyer escorts were:\n\nArriving in the area of the meeting on the evening of 23 June, the carrier began launching flights of Avengers at around 23:00 GMT to search for the submarines. \"U-530\" escaped undetected.\n\nAt approximately 23:40, Ed Whitlock, the radar operator in Lieutenant Commander Jesse D. Taylor's Avenger aircraft, detected a surface contact on his malfunctioning radar (only the right half of its sweep was working). Taylor immediately dropped flares, illuminating the area, and attacked. After his first pass he saw the depth charge explosions just to starboard of the submarine – a near miss – and the submarine dove. Taylor dropped a purple sonobuoy, a newly developed underwater microphone that floats on the surface, picks up underwater sounds and transmits them to the aircraft. A searching aircraft usually drops these in packs of five, code-named purple, orange, blue, red and yellow (POBRY). The operator is able to monitor each buoy in turn to listen for sounds emitted by enemy craft.\n\nHearing what sounded like submarine propeller sounds, Taylor began a torpedo attack, dropping a Mark 24 \"mine\". The Mark 24, code-name \"Fido\" and designated a \"mine\" for secrecy, was actually the first Allied acoustic torpedo, developed by the Harvard Underwater Sound Lab, which homed in on noises made by the submarine. Fido was designed to be a \"mission kill\" weapon – to damage the submarine so that it would have to surface and be captured, rather than destroy it. Within minutes of dropping the torpedo, Taylor's sonobuoys detected the sounds of an explosion and a hull breaking up.\n\nAs Commander Taylor's watch ended, the operators on \"USS Bogue\" and Taylor all thought he had sunk the sub. However, as Taylor's patrol ended, he was relieved by Lieutenant Junior Grade William \"Flash\" Gordon, accompanied by civilian underwater sound expert Price Fish. They arrived on the scene just after midnight, and circled with Taylor for some time. At about 0100 on 24 June 1944, Fish reported hearing some faint propeller noise in the area.\n\nCaptain Vosseller ordered a second attack; Gordon checked with Taylor about the exact position of the sonobuoy, and dropped another \"Fido\" torpedo where he believed the submarine to be. Taylor departed the area at 0115, but Gordon stayed to circle the area and listen for any sign of activity. He heard nothing, and was relieved by Lieutenant (junior grade) Brady, who continued to watch and listen, but no further activity was reported. Next morning, \"USS Janssen\" reached the site () and found flotsam: a ton of raw rubber, a piece of silk, and human flesh.\n\nThe sonobuoy recording of the last few moments of \"I-52's\" sound still survives in the US National Archives in Washington D.C. in the form of two thin film canisters marked \"Gordon wire No. 1\" and \"Gordon wire No. 2\" dated 24 June 1944. The wire from Taylor's attack has not been found; however, a set of 78 rpm vinyl recordings that include segments of Taylor's wire recordings has been located. These records were produced during the war for training pilots. On the wire and vinyl recordings Lieutenant Gordon can be heard talking to his crew, along with the sound of a torpedo exploding, and metal twisting. Subsequent to the discovery of the wreck (see below), analysts at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, experts in analyzing modern submarine sounds, studied these recordings and concluded that the \"I-52\" was sunk by Taylor. The propeller sounds heard by Gordon were actually from the U-Boat, nearly away, reaching Gordon's sonobuoys through a \"surface duct\". This quirk of underwater sound propagation traps sounds in a channel near the surface and can transmit them for many miles. At the time, the Navy credited the sinking of the \"I-52\" to both Gordon and Taylor, as it was uncertain whether the ship was sunk on the first attack.\n\nOn 30 August 1944, the Kriegsmarine officially declared \"I-52\" sunk in the Bay of Biscay as of 25 July 1944, with all crew.\n\nThe Imperial Japanese Navy declared \"I-52\" missing on 2 August 1944, and struck her from service on 10 December 1944 as sunk.\n\nIn late 1994, a salvage operation named Project Orca was launched to try to locate the \"I-52\" and retrieve her valuable cargo of gold. Despite the commissioning of the Russian research ship \"Akademik Keldysh\" for the project and an extensive search, by March 1995 the search had proved to be a failure (Hamilton-Paterson 1998). Very shortly afterwards, however, in the spring of 1995 Paul Tidwell, working with the ocean exploration company Meridian Sciences, Inc. (later renamed Nauticos Corp.) located the wreck deep, mostly upright. The vessel was found nearly from the datum quoted by the U.S. Navy at the time of the sinking, but within 1/2-mile of the coordinates computed by Meridian. Meridian's analysts used historical ship logs from the U.S. task force as well as from the German U-boat to reconstruct the events of the battle and correct navigation errors using a process called \"re-navigation,\" or RENAV. Her conning tower is intact and her hull number is still visible. The bow is broken up, probably due to impact on the bottom, and a large hole, undoubtedly caused by one of the torpedoes, is aft of the conning tower. Debris was scattered over a large area. Plans were made to raise the sub and recover the gold. The Japanese government objected, indicating that they considered the wreck site a grave. Tidwell worked on the proper procedures with the Japanese government and received the approval of the war graves authorities in Japan. Tidwell's team took down a Japanese naval ensign and affixed it to the wrecked submarine. A metal box from the debris field was brought to the surface in the hope that it would contain some of the sunken gold (then worth US$25 million), but when opened, the salvors were disappointed to find not gold, but opium. It was dumped overboard.\n\nThe plan was to recover the entire conning tower, diplomatic pouches, gold, coding equipment, (Japanese and German) and more. The recovered items would be taken to New Orleans for cleaning, conservation, and corrosion treatment to prepare for an exhibition. Mandalay Bay Casino had offered $20 million for the exhibition. After three years in Las Vegas everything except the gold would be returned to Japan to be placed at the city of Kure in a permanent exhibition.\n\nThere are no full-size Japanese World War II submarines on display anywhere in the world; however, captured Japanese midget submarines are on display at the Admiral Nimitz Museum in Fredericksburg, Texas, at the USS Bowfin Submarine Museum & Park, close to Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, and at the Australian War Memorial, Canberra.\n\n\"The Japan Times\" reported that Tidwell intended to return to the site and raise the submarine in November 2005 or May 2006. However, as of 2016, Tidwell's plans have not been fulfilled.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5678301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5678301", "title": "John Lorn McDougall Sr.", "text": "John Lorn McDougall Sr.\n\nJohn Lorn McDougall (1800 – May 17, 1860) was a businessman and political figure in Canada West.\n\nHe was born on the Isle of Mull, Scotland in 1800, orphaned at a young age and raised by aunts from his mother's family. He joined the Hudson's Bay Company in Scotland as a clerk and came to Lower Canada in 1820. He worked in the fur trade in the Ottawa River and Timiskaming districts.\n\nHe later purchased farm land near Renfrew on the Bonnechere River. In 1840, he retired from the Hudson's Bay Company, settled in Renfrew and opened a general store there. McDougall also built the first gristmill at Renfrew. He served on the council for the Bathurst District and on the township council for Renfrew, including several terms as reeve.\n\nHe was elected to the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada in 1857 but resigned in 1858 to provide a seat in the assembly for William Cayley, who had been named to the Executive Council. Shortly afterwards, he was named coroner for the United Counties of Lanark and Renfrew. He died in Renfrew, Canada West in 1860 after an extended illness.\n\nHis son, also named John Lorn, became Auditor General of Canada in 1878.\n\n"}
{"id": "34015330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34015330", "title": "Josef Ambor", "text": "Josef Ambor\n\nJosef Ambor (July 28, 1908 - 1970)was a British cinematographer.\n\n"}
{"id": "14110680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14110680", "title": "Joseph ibn Abitur", "text": "Joseph ibn Abitur\n\nJoseph ibn Abitur was a Spanish rabbi of around the 10th century. He was a student of Moses ben Hanoch. \n\nAbitur was from a very prestigious Spanish family from the city of Mérida. His great great grandfather was a communal and Rabbinic leader. Besides being a great Torah scholar, Abitur was also a paytan of note. He also wrote a commentary on the Bible in Hebrew. He also enjoyed a relationship with the Caliph of the time and fashioned an Arabic translation of the Talmud for him. When Moses ben Hanoch's son Hanoch was chosen to succeed his father, Abitur felt compelled to leave Spain and travel to the Yeshivas in Babel. On his way he stopped in Egypt before arriving in Baghdad. He eventually went to Damascus, where he died. He wrote many Teshuvas, some of which are extant.\n"}
{"id": "2367208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2367208", "title": "Just like Heaven (film)", "text": "Just like Heaven (film)\n\nJust Like Heaven is a 2005 American romantic comedy fantasy film directed by Mark Waters, starring Reese Witherspoon, Mark Ruffalo, and Jon Heder. It is based on the French novel \"If Only It Were True\" (\"Et si c'était vrai...\") written by Marc Levy.\n\nSteven Spielberg obtained the rights to produce the film from the book. The film was released in the United States and Canada on September 16, 2005.\n\nElizabeth Masterson (Witherspoon), a young emergency medicine physician whose work is her whole life, is in a serious car accident while on her way to a blind date. Three months later, David Abbott (Ruffalo), a landscape architect recovering from the sudden death of his wife, moves into the apartment that had been Elizabeth's, after 'discovering' it in what seems to be a fateful .\n\nElizabeth's spirit begins to appear to David in the apartment with ghostly properties and abilities that make it clear that something is not right. She can suddenly appear and disappear, walk or move through walls and objects, and once takes over his actions. When they meet, they are both surprised, as Elizabeth is still unaware of her recent history and refuses to think she is dead. David tries to have her spirit exorcised from the apartment, but to no avail. Since only David can see and hear her, others think that he is hallucinating and talking to himself.\n\nDavid and Elizabeth begin to bond, as much as that is possible, and he takes her out of town to a beautiful landscaped garden he designed. Elizabeth tells him she senses she has been there before, and in fact, the garden was something she was dreaming of in the opening scenes of the film, where she was awakened by a colleague from cat-napping after working a 23-hour shift in the hospital.\nTogether, assisted by a psychic bookstore clerk, Darryl (Heder), Elizabeth and David find out who she is, what happened to her, and why they are connected. She is not dead, but in a coma, her body being kept on life support at the hospital where she used to work. When David discovers that in accordance with her living will, she will soon be allowed to die, he tries to prevent this by telling Elizabeth's sister, Abby, that he can see her and what the situation involves. One of Elizabeth's young nieces is revealed to be able to sense her presence as well.\n\nAbby thinks David is mentally disturbed and drives him out of her house. Desperate, David decides to prevent Elizabeth's death by stealing her from the hospital. He asks his friend/therapist Jack to help him, and Jack is found to be actually Abby's former college boyfriend, who had set up a blind date for David with Elizabeth on the night of the accident - the reason David can see Elizabeth is that they were meant to meet. He then admits to Jack and Elizabeth that he loves her and that is the reason he does not want her to die; he has gotten past the death of his wife. While stealing Elizabeth, they are quickly discovered in the hospital. The security guards find them, pulling Jack away from Elizabeth, but when he is grabbed, her breathing tube is removed. David gets away from the guards a bit longer, but Elizabeth is now dying. David frantically kisses the dying Elizabeth, breathing some air into her lungs, while her spirit begins to fade away. Then, amazingly, her heartbeat returns and she miraculously awakens from the coma. However, the recovered Elizabeth does not remember anything that happened during the coma or any of the events with David, who leaves the hospital in sadness.\n\nSometime later, Elizabeth goes back to her apartment. She is drawn up to the roof of the building, which has been transformed into a beautiful landscaped garden. She finds David there, who has gotten in with a spare key Elizabeth's spirit had shown him. Just as he is about to leave, she asks for her key back. When their hands touch, her memory of the events during her coma are restored, and they kiss.\n\n\nCritics were mixed on the film. The film achieved a 56% approval rating from 149 reviews on Rotten Tomatoes and the consensus \"Delightfully sweet like a lollipop, \"Just Like Heaven\" is a dreamy romantic comedy that may give you a toothache when it attempts to broach difficult end of life issues by throwing a cherry on top.\" However, the most prominent critics – such as Roger Ebert, Richard Roeper, and A. O. Scott – gave it favorable reviews; they all agreed that the plot had logical flaws that were somewhat overcome by good dialogue and characterization.\n\nThe performances of Witherspoon, Ruffalo, and Heder were all generally well received. Heder's appearance helped to debunk an urban legend that the actor had died shortly after filming \"Napoleon Dynamite\".\n\nThe DVD release in February 2006 was given unusually strong promotional publicity.\n\nThe title of this film is also that of a popular 1987 song, \"Just Like Heaven\" by The Cure. Singer Katie Melua recorded a cover version of the song for the soundtrack of the film. Melua's version is played over the opening titles, and has lines such as \"she said\" changed to \"he said\" to maintain a heterosexual narrative. The original version by The Cure, as well as the remainder of Melua's version, are played over the closing credits.\n\nThe orchestral score was written by Rolfe Kent, and orchestrated by Tony Blondal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158293", "title": "Marcus Furius Camillus", "text": "Marcus Furius Camillus\n\nMarcus Furius Camillus (; c. 446 – 365 BC) was a Roman soldier and statesman of patrician descent. According to Livy and Plutarch, Camillus triumphed four times, was five times dictator, and was honoured with the title of \"Second Founder of Rome\".\n\nCamillus belonged to the lineage of the Furii Camilli, whose origin had been in the Latin city of Tusculum. Although this city had been a bitter enemy of the Romans in the 490s BC, after both the Volsci and Aequi later began to wage war against Rome, Tusculum joined Rome, unlike most Latin cities. Soon, the Furii integrated into Roman society, accumulating a long series of magistrate offices. Thus the Furii had become an important Roman family by the 450s.\n\nThe father of Camillus was Lucius Furius Medullinus, a patrician tribune of consular powers. Camillus had more than three brothers: the eldest one was Lucius junior, who was both consul and tribune of consular powers. The Latin noun \"camillus\" denoted a child acolyte at religious rituals. During Camillus's infancy, his relative Quintus Furius Paculus was the Roman Pontifex Maximus.\n\nThe 'military tribunes with consular authority' or consular tribunes (in Latin tribuni militum consulari potestate), were tribunes elected with consular power during the so-called Conflict of the Orders in the Roman Republic. Consular tribunes served in 444 BC and then continuously from 408 BC to 394 BC and again from 391 BC to 367 BC. The office was created, along with the magistracy of the censor, in order to give the plebeian order access to higher levels of government without having to reform the office of consul. At that time in Rome's history, plebeians could not be elected to the highest magistracy of Consul, whereas they could be elected to the office of consular tribune.\n\nCamillus had been a noteworthy soldier in the wars with the Aequi and Volsci. Subsequently, Camillus was a military tribune. In 403 BC, he was appointed censor with Marcus Postumius Albinus Regillensis and, by means of extensive taxation, took action to solve financial problems resulting from incessant military campaigns.\n\nIn 406 BC, Rome declared war against the rival Etrurian city of Veii. The city of Veii was powerful and was located on a well-fortified and elevated site. This required the Romans to commence a siege lasting several years. In 401 BC, as the war started to grow increasingly unpopular in Rome, Camillus was appointed consular tribune. He assumed command of the Roman army, and within a short time he stormed two allies of Veii, Falerii and Capena, which resisted behind their walls. In 398 BC, Camillus received consular tribune powers and then looted Capena.\nWhen Rome suffered severe defeats in 396 BC, the tenth year of this war, the Romans resorted again to Camillus, who was named \"dictator\" for the first time. After defeating both Falerii and Capena at Nepete, Camillus commanded the final strike against Veii. He dug the soft ground below the walls and the Romans infiltrated through the city's sewage system effectively, defeating the enemy. Not interested in capitulation terms, but in Veii's complete destruction, the Romans slaughtered the entire adult male population and made slaves of all the women and children. The plunder was large. For the battle, Camillus had invoked the protection of Mater Matuta extensively, and he looted the statue of Juno for Rome. Back in Rome, Camillus paraded on a quadriga, a four-horse chariot, and the popular celebrations lasted four days. Plutarch wrote of this:\n\nCamillus opposed the plebeian plan to populate Veii with half of the Romans. It would have resolved the poverty issues, but the patricians opposed it. Deliberately, Camillus protracted the project until its abandonment. Camillus rendered himself controversial in not fulfilling his promise to dedicate a tenth of the plunder to Delphi for the god Apollo. The Roman soothsayers announced that the gods were displeased by this, so the Senate charged the citizens and the sought amounts of gold were retrieved.\n\nTo finish Falerii, which was the last surviving enemy of this war, Camillus was made consular tribune again in 394 BC. He seized the opportunity to divert the bitter conflict between Roman social classes into a unifying external conflict. He besieged Falerii and, after he rejected as immoral the proposal of a local school teacher who had surrendered most of the local children to the Romans, the people of Falerii were moved to gratitude, and made peace with Rome.\n\nThe entire Italian Peninsula was impressed by the Roman victories of Camillus. Aequi, Volsci, and Capena proposed peace treaties. Rome increased its territory by seventy percent and some of the land was distributed to needy citizens. Rome had become the most powerful nation of the central peninsula.\n\nThe Romans were restive because no plunder had been reaped out of Falerii. Furthermore, Camillus rejected both the land redistribution and the uncontrolled Roman population of Veii. Consequently, he was impeached by his political adversaries, by an accusation of embezzlement of the Etruscan plunder.\n\nTo Camillus, his friends explained that, although the condemnation seemed unavoidable, they would help to pay the fine. Camillus spurned this, opting for exile. He abandoned Rome with his wife and Lucius, his surviving son, and went to Ardea. In his absence, Camillus was condemned to pay 1,500 denarii.\n\nThe Gauls, who had already invaded most of Etruria, reached Clusium and its people turned to Rome for help. However, the Roman embassy provoked a skirmish and, then, the Gauls marched straight for Rome (July 390 BC). After the entire Roman army was defeated at the Allia brook (Battle of the Allia), the defenceless Rome was seized by the invaders. The entire Roman army retreated into the deserted Veii whereas most civilians ended at the Etruscan Caere. Nonetheless, a surrounded Roman garrison continued to resist on the Capitoline Hill. The Gauls dwelt within the city, getting their supplies by destroying all nearby towns for plunder.\n\nWhen the Gauls headed for Ardea, the exiled Camillus, who was now living as a private man, organized the local forces for the defence of the city. He told the city's inhabitants that the Gauls always exterminated their defeated enemies. Camillus found that the Gauls were distracted, celebrating their latest spoils leading to much drunkenness at their camp. So he attacked them during the night and defeated the enemy easily with great bloodshed. Camillus was hailed then by all other Roman exiles throughout the region. After he refused a makeshift generalship, a Roman messenger sneaked into the Capitol and, therein, the Senators appointed Camillus \"dictator\" for a year with the task of confronting the Gauls. At the Roman base of Veii, Camillus gathered a 12,000-man army with more men joining from throughout the region.\n\nThe Gauls may have been ill-prepared for the siege, as an epidemic broke out among them as a result of not burying the dead. Brennus and the Romans negotiated an end to the siege when the Romans agreed to pay one thousand pounds of gold. According to tradition, to add insult to injury, it was discovered that Brennus was using heavier weights than standard for weighing the gold. When the Romans complained, Brennus is said to have thrown his sword and belt on the scales and shouted in Latin, \"Vae victis!\" (\"woe to the conquered\").\n\nAccording to some Roman historians, it was at this very moment that Camillus arrived with a Roman army and, after putting his sword on the scale, replied,\"Non auro, sed ferro, recuperanda est patria\" (\"not with gold, but with iron, will the fatherland be regained\"), and attacked the Gauls. A battle ensued in the streets of Rome, but neither army could fight effectively in the narrow streets and alleyways. The Gallic and Roman armies left the city and fought the next day. Camillus's army lived up to his hopes and the Gallic army was routed. The Romans dubbed Camillus a \"second Romulus,\" a second founder of Rome.\n\nCamillus sacrificed for the successful return and he ordered the construction of the temple of Aius Locutius. When plebeian orators again proposed moving to Veii, Camillus ordered a debate in the Senate and argued for staying. The Senate unanimously approved of Camillus's view and ordered the reconstruction of Rome. As the Senate feared sedition by plebeians, it refused Camillus's requests to resign his position as dictator before his term was finished. This made Camillus the longest-reigning of all Roman dictators until Sulla and Julius Caesar.\n\nRome's reconstruction took an entire year. During that time, the Volsci and Aequi invaded the Roman territory, some Latin nations revolted, and the Etruscans besieged Satricum, which was a Roman ally. To confront such a crisis, in 389 BC, Camillus, who was military tribune at that time, was appointed Roman dictator yet again.\n\nWhen the enemy besieged Rome, Camillus slew most invaders on Mount Marcius, setting fire to their palisades during the windy hours of dawn. Subsequently, Camillus's army moved south-eastward to defeat the Volsci in the Battle of Maecium, not far from Lanuvium (389 BC). Camillus proceeded then to capture Bola (Aequi's capital) thus subjugating the Aequi. However, the Romans lost Satricum and Camillus failed to capture Antium, the capital of the Volsci.\n\nFinally, Camillus arrived at Satricum where the population had just been expelled by the Etruscans. Camillus estimated that the Etruscans would be given to boisterous celebrations in Satricum, so he rushed to the confrontation; the Etruscans were so intoxicated that Camillus recaptured Satricum with ease.\n\nAfter this campaign, the Roman dictator Camillus celebrated a Triumph in Rome. Through Camillus, the Romans had proven their military professional strength and offensive readiness.\n\nIn 384 BC, Camillus was consular tribune again. His office was troubled chiefly by the charismatic Marcus Manlius Capitolinus, who became his greatest detractor and around whom all plebeians had aggregated. While Capitolinus was said to have kingly dreams, he attacked Camillus with precisely such a king-like accusation. Nonetheless, Capitolinus was formally judged and executed.\n\nThe southern Latin tribes were contemptuous of the Romans after their latest expedition. Antium and several of the Volsci cities united, including the Latin cities of Praeneste, and Velitrae. They liberated Satricum, slaying all the Roman inhabitants. Given this crisis, Camillus was appointed consular tribune for the sixth time.\n\nHis health was poor but his desire for retirement was refused. Camillus decided then that he would command through his son Lucius. Thus, Camillus campaigned. On the battlefield, although Camillus tried to help with the military actions while located safely in a distant camp, Lucius could not cope with his duties so Camillus moved onto the battlefield and the Romans were able to defeat their enemy. Camillus headed then to Satricum with his youngest men and the city was relieved.\n\nBecause many of the war prisoners were from Tusculum, Camillus led the Romans there and the city was bloodlessly annexed, and its citizens endowed with full Roman rights. This favorable treatment was due to the Furii coming originally from Tusculum.\n\nAfter these events, Camillus decided that he would definitely retire.\n\nNevertheless, in 368 BC, Camillus was appointed Roman dictator once more, nominally to conduct the war of Velletri. However, in Rome, the patricians of the Senate were planning to use Camillus as leverage against the agitated plebeians because the Conflict of the Orders had worsened due to a severe economic downturn.\n\nFor the Roman magistracy, the populists were demanding a dyad of Roman consuls, of whom one should always be a plebeian. Through a false military levy, Camillus attempted to trick the plebeian council so it might not meet to approve such plans. The enraged assemblymen were about to punish Camillus when he renounced his office of Dictator.\n\nWith the Gauls marching once more toward Latium, all Romans reunited despite their severe differences. Camillus was named Roman dictator for the fifth time in 367 BC. He actively organized the defence of Rome. Through the commands of Camillus, the Roman soldiers were provided with protective armour against the Gallic main attack: the heavy blow of their swords. Both smooth iron helmets and brass-rimmed shields were made. Also, long pikes were distributed to keep the enemy's swords at a distance.\n\nThe Gauls camped at the Anio river, carrying loads of recently captured plunder. Near them, at the Alban Hills, Camillus discovered their disorganization, which was due to unruly celebrations. Therefore, before the dawn, the Roman light infantry disrupted the Gallic defences and, subsequently, the Roman heavy infantry and pikemen finished off their enemy. After the battle, Velitrae surrendered voluntarily to Rome. Back in Rome, Camillus celebrated with another Triumph.\n\nIn Rome, the plebeians were insistent about the dyad of consuls. The patricians refused to compromise and again sought protection behind Camillus's figure. The populists attempted to arrest Camillus but he timely convoked a Senate session and convinced the Senate to yield to the popular demand, enacted by the plebs as the Lex Licinia Sextia (367 BC). A new magistracy open to patricians and plebeians, the praetorship, was also created.\n\nThe creation of the new magistracy was followed by general celebration. Camillus ordered the construction of the Temple of Concord, which would be built beside the Roman Forum.\n\nA deadly pestilence struck Rome, and claimed many Roman notables, including Camillus, who died in 365 BC. His death was deeply mourned, as the \"second founder of Rome.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227569", "title": "Methodological individualism", "text": "Methodological individualism\n\nMethodological individualism is the principle that subjective individual motivation explains social phenomena, rather than class or group dynamics which are (according to proponents of individualistic principles) illusory or artificial and therefore cannot truly explain market or social phenomena.\n\nIn neoclassical economics, people's behavior is explained in terms of rational choices as constrained by prices and incomes. The neoclassical economist accepts individuals' preferences as given. Gary Becker and George Stigler provide a forceful statement of this view:\n\nEconomist Mark Blaug has criticized over-reliance on methodological individualism in economics, saying that \"it is helpful to note what methodological individualism strictly interpreted [...] would imply for economics. In effect, it would rule out all macroeconomic propositions that cannot be reduced to microeconomic ones [...] this amounts to saying goodbye to almost the whole of received macroeconomics. There must be something wrong with a methodological principle that has such devastating implications\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40611403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40611403", "title": "Murder of Fernando Balderas Sánchez and Yolanda Figueroa", "text": "Murder of Fernando Balderas Sánchez and Yolanda Figueroa\n\nMurder of Fernando Balderas Sánchez and Yolanda Figueroa (4 December 1996) was an unusual group killing of two married journalists and their three children in Mexico City, Mexico that had the possibilities of being linked with drug cartels, corruption, criminal activities, or their work as journalists.\nThe case was brought to a resolution within two weeks by the confession of one of the murderers, who was an employee, and his implication of two other coworkers. The two, a husband and wife, remain at large.\n\nFernando Balderas Sánchez (1952 – 4 December 1996) was the publisher of \"Cuarto Poder\" (Translated: Fourth Estate), a crime magazine. For this publication, he could use his previous experience as a former Federal Judicial Police official. At the time of his murder, Balderas' reputation was called into question. Two reputable newspapers reported that sources told them Balderas was under investigation for taking money from drug cartels while he had worked in law enforcement, and he was accused of a sexual assault on his two maids but the warrant for his arrest was never served.\n\nYolanda Figueroa (ca. 1956 – 4 December 1996) published in August 1996 her biographical account of narcotrafficker Juan García Ábrego and his Gulf Cartel, called \"El Capo del Golfo\" (Translated: The Capo of the Gulf). The crime boss was convicted in the United States in October 1996 and two months before the murder. She had dedicated her book to Ricardo Cordero Ontiveros, Mexico's attorney general, who was fired and confined days before the family was murdered.\n\nFernando Balderas and Yolanda Figueroa were the parents of a daughter, 18, and two sons, 14 and 8.\n\nPolice checked out an abandoned red Mustang and that led them to its owner Fernando Balderas Sánchez and his home in the upscale Pedregal neighborhood of Mexico City. Suspicious, police broke into the house and discovered the family of five murdered and its driver left unconscious. Sánchez, Figueroa, a daughter, and two sons were murdered with an 18-inch chisel while asleep in their home. The 8-year-old boy was the only victim stabbed with a knife. The family driver, Alejandro Perez de la Rosa, around 27 years old, survived the attack but was left unconscious on the premises.\nThe family's driver Perez confessed during the investigation that he and two other employed servants had murdered the journalists and their three kids. According to Perez, their motive was revenge against Balderas who he said held the family's two maids captive and sexually abused them. Perez was beaten by the other two for his share of the possessions.\n\nAlejandro Perez de la Rosa, could have received a 50-year sentence but was handed down a 118-year prison sentence because of the brutality of the crime. His co-conspirators, the driver Martin Hernandez and the maid Josefina Hernandez, remain at large but Mexican police were looking for them in their home state of Veracruz.\n\nThe different theories about how the family of the two married journalists were killed revealed the vulnerability of journalists in Mexico.\nOne theory involved the drug cartel retaliation for the book Yolanda Figueroa had just published about the capture of drug lord Juan García Ábrego. García was the head of the Gulf Cartel, which controlled the Tamaulipas and Nuevo León areas at the time he was caught 14 January 1996. He was convicted two months before the murder. The United States had first put out a warrant for his arrest in 1993 and he had been on the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation's FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives in 1995. Proponents of this theory believed Figueroa's book and dedication to the attorney general made her a target. The style of the murder, however, did not match previous drug-related executions, and skeptics said the murders high visibility carried risks of a backlash against the cartels.\n\nAnother theory was that Bandaras had been taking bribes or was associated with the drug cartels and on its payroll while serving in the Federal Judicial Police. Bandaras could have also been involved in a crime ring. After Perez confessed to the murder, police announced an investigation for extortion or theft into the six luxury cars owned by Bandaras.\n\nThe International Press Institute said the murder of Figueroa's family was the most violent in 1996.\nHomero Aridjis, a writer and environmental activist who would be elected to head PEN International in 1997, said, \"There has been nothing like this before. This is creating an atmosphere of narco-terrorism like Colombia. People are living in terror. They don't want to write, they don't want to talk about drug trafficking.\"\nRick Rockwell, a professor of journalism at Northwestern University, wrote, \"Although it is far too early in the investigation to know who is behind this multiple murder or whether corrupt government officials might have ties to it, it is clear there's a battle against honest journalism going on south of the border--and the journalists are losing.\"\nEduardo Valle, a source for Figueroa's book, said, \"You die if you write about this stuff. If you get to the bottom of this drug trafficking, they will kill you.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47823502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47823502", "title": "Neuroelectrics", "text": "Neuroelectrics\n\nNeuroelectrics is a Barcelona-based Spanish company which produces devices to stimulate and treat the brain. Founded in 2011, it is a spin-off of Starlab Neuroscience Research which was established in 2000. In February 2014, the company opened an office in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The company was founded by Ana Maiques, CEO, and her husband Giulio Ruffini, both of whom had originally worked in Barcelona for the Belgian research company Starlab until it declared bankruptcy. Maiques is now aiming for Neuroelectrics to become a \"leading company in the diagnosis and treatment of brain disorders and diseases of the central nervous system\".\n\nCEO Ana Maiques won third prize in the European Commission's Women Innovator Contest in 2014 for her entrepreneurial vision. In April 2015, Neuroelectrics won the Bupa Startup Stage at Wired Health 2015.\n\nNeuroelectrics currently markets two medical devices: Starstim and Enobio. Enobio is a wireless and wearable brain monitoring device that record electroencephalogram (EEG). Starstim is a hybrid brain stimulator that combines EEG with the three types of non-invasive electric stimulation: direct current (tDCS), alternating current (tACS) and random-noise (tRNS) stimulation. Both Starstim and Enobio are CE certified medical devices targeted to the medical and research communities. The US Federal law classifies both Starstim and Enobio as investigational devices. Other accreditations include Health Canada Medical Device License Approval for both Starstim and Enobio. Starstim complies with the European legislation for medical devices for the treatment of pain, stroke, depression and addictive disorders. Maiques believes they could also find applications in monitoring the early development of Parkinson's or Alzheimer's in order to combat worsening conditions.\n"}
{"id": "1154340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1154340", "title": "Nuno da Cunha", "text": "Nuno da Cunha\n\nD. Nuno da Cunha (c. 1487 – March 5, 1539) was a governor of Portuguese possessions in India from 1528 to 1538. He was the son of Antónia Pais and Tristão da Cunha, the famous Portuguese navigator, admiral and ambassador to Pope Leo X. Nuno da Cunha proved his mettle in battles at Oja and Brava, and at the capture of Panane, under the viceroy Francisco de Almeida. Named by João III ninth governor of Portuguese possessions in India, he served from April 1528 to 1538.\nOn his passage to Goa, he subdued the pirates at Mombasa who had been harassing the coast of Portuguese Mozambique. Mozambique had been brought within the Portuguese trading orbit and provided watering stations essential to Portugal's lifeline to the west coast of India. Nuno's brothers Pero Vaz da Cunha and Simão da Cunha were expected to serve under him as second and third in command, a form of nepotism that was expected in the Portuguese \"Estado da Índia.\" However, they died on the voyage, and Nuno was forced to rely upon local networks of clientage in Goa during his long rule.\nIn 1529, Nuno sent an expedition that sacked and burned the city of Damão on the Arabian Sea at the mouth of the Damão River, about 100 miles north of Mumbai in the Muslim state of Gujarat. Forces under his control captured Baxay (now Vasai, often mistaken for Basra in Iraq) from the Muslim ruler of Gujarat, Bahadur Shah, on January 20, 1533. The next year, renamed Bassein, the city became the capital of the Portuguese province of the North, and the great citadel of black basalt, still standing, was begun. (It was completed in 1548.)\n\nForced to return to Portugal as a result of court intrigues, he was shipwrecked at the Cape of Good Hope and drowned. His first marriage was to Maria da Cunha, and his second marriage was to Isabel da Silveira. The main source for Nuno da Cunha's career is the Portuguese historian João de Barros (1496–1570), famous for his history of the Portuguese in their overseas territories. The work, \"Asia de Ioam de Barros, dos fectos que os Portuguezes fizeram no descobrimento e conquista dos mares e terras do Oriente,\" is full of lively detail, with incidents described like the king of Viantana's killing of the Portuguese ambassadors to Malacca with boiling water and their bodies thrown to dogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "66068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66068", "title": "Olav V of Norway", "text": "Olav V of Norway\n\nOlav V (born Prince Alexander of Denmark; 2 July 1903 – 17 January 1991) was King of Norway from 1957 until his death.\n\nOlav was the only child of Haakon VII and Maud of Wales. He became heir apparent to the Norwegian throne when his father was elected King of Norway in 1905. He was the first heir to the Norwegian throne to be brought up in Norway since Olav IV, and his parents made sure he was given as Norwegian an upbringing as possible. In preparation for his future role, he attended both civilian and military schools. In 1929, he married his first cousin Princess Märtha of Sweden. During World War II his leadership was much appreciated and he was appointed Norwegian Chief of Defence in 1944. At his death in 1991, he was the last surviving grandchild of Edward VII of the United Kingdom and Alexandra of Denmark.\n\nDue to his considerate, down-to-earth style, King Olav was immensely popular, resulting in the nickname \"Folkekongen\" (\"The People's King\"). In a 2005 poll by the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation, Olav was voted \"Norwegian of the Century\".\n\nOlav was born Prince \"Alexander Edward Christian Frederik\" in Appleton House on the royal Sandringham Estate, Flitcham, United Kingdom. His parents were Prince Carl, second son of Crown Prince Frederick of Denmark (later King Frederick VIII), and Princess Maud, youngest daughter of King Edward VII of the United Kingdom, who was the eldest son of Britain's Queen Victoria. When Olav's father was elected king of Norway, he took the Norwegian name Haakon VII, and on the day he was inaugurated, he gave his son the Norwegian name Olav after Olaf II Haakonsson.\n\nOlav was thus the first heir to the throne since the Middle Ages to have been raised in Norway. Unlike his father, who was a naval officer, Olav chose to complete his main military education in the army. He graduated from the three-year Norwegian Military Academy in 1924, with the fourth best score in his class. Olav then went on to study jurisprudence and economics for two years at Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Crown Prince Olav was a naval cadet serving on the minelayer/cadet training ship \"Olav Tryggvason\". Olav moved up the ranks of the Norwegian armed forces, rising in the army from an initial rank of first lieutenant to captain in 1931 and colonel in 1936.\n\nHe was an accomplished athlete. Olav jumped from the Holmenkollen ski jump in Oslo and competed in sailing regattas. He won a gold medal in sailing at the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam and remained an active sailor into old age.\n\nOn 21 March 1929 in Oslo, he married his first cousin Princess Märtha of Sweden with whom he had two daughters, Ragnhild and Astrid and one son, Harald. As exiles during World War II, Crown Princess Märtha and the royal children lived in Washington, D.C., where she struck up a close friendship with Franklin D. Roosevelt. She died in 1954, before her husband ascended the throne.\n\nThe British Film Institute houses an early film, made in 1913, in which a miniature car (a \"baby Cadillac\") commissioned by Queen Alexandra for Crown Prince Olav tows a procession of Londoners through the streets of the capital, before being delivered to a pair of \"royal testers\" of roughly Olav's age. The car is a battery-powered, one-third size replica on a four-foot wheelbase, and is on permanent loan to the Norsk Teknisk Museum in Oslo.\n\nAs Crown Prince, Olav had received extensive military training and had participated in most major Norwegian military exercises. Because of this he was perhaps one of the most knowledgeable Norwegian military leaders and was respected by other Allied leaders for his knowledge and leadership skills. During a visit to the United States before the war, he and his wife had established a close relationship with President Roosevelt. These factors would prove to be important for the Norwegian fight against the attacking German forces. In 1939, Crown Prince Olav was appointed an admiral of the Royal Norwegian Navy and a general of the Norwegian Army.\n\nDuring World War II, Olav stood by his father's side in resisting the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany. During the campaign he was a valuable advisor both to civilian and military leaders. When the Norwegian government decided to go into exile, he offered to stay behind with the Norwegian people, but this was declined. He reluctantly followed his father to the United Kingdom, where he and his staff and servants and aides continued to be a key advisor to the government-in-exile and his father. It is a popular legend among his countrymen that he did not allow himself any dessert or sweets for the duration of the Norwegian occupation.\n\nOlav made several visits to Norwegian and Allied troops in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States. In 1944, he was appointed to the post of Norwegian Chief of Defence and after the war he led the Norwegian disarmament of the German occupying forces. His war decorations from other nations, including the War Crosses of Norway, France, Greece and the Netherlands, the US Legion of Merit and the French Médaille Militaire, are testament to the international recognition of his contribution to the war against Hitler.\n\nSucceeding to the Norwegian throne in 1957 upon his father's death, Olav reigned as a \"People's King,\" and became extremely popular. He liked to drive his own cars, and would drive in the public lanes, even though as a monarch he was allowed to drive in bus lanes. During the 1973 energy crisis driving was banned on certain weekends. King Olav never wanted to miss an opportunity to go skiing, and while he could have driven legally, he wanted to lead by example. So he dressed up in his skiing outfit, and boarded the Holmenkollbanen suburban railway carrying his skis on his shoulder.\nHe was later asked how he dared to go out in public without bodyguards. He replied that \"he had 4 million bodyguards\" —the population of Norway was at the time 4 million.\n\nFor his athletic ability and role as King, Olav earned the Holmenkollen medal in 1968, the Medal for Outstanding Civic Achievement in 1970 and was made Name of the Year in 1975. He had a strong interest in military matters and took his role as titular Commander-in-Chief very seriously. As well as his ceremonial roles in the Norwegian Army, he also served as Colonel-in-Chief of the Green Howards (Alexandra, Princess of Wales's Yorkshire Regiment), the British regiment named for his grandmother Queen Alexandra.\n\nThe King represented Norway extensively abroad during his reign, conducting state visits to both neighbouring countries and more distant destinations such as Ethiopia and Iran. King Olav V opened the 14th World Scout Jamboree in July 1975 in the presence of 17,259 Scouts from 94 countries.\n\nDuring the summer of 1990, the King suffered from health problems, but recovered somewhat during Christmas the same year. At the age of 87, on 17 January 1991, while residing in the Royal Lodge Kongsseteren in Oslo, he became ill and died in the evening of a myocardial infarction. An interview given by King Harald V and hints in a biography by Jo Benkow, who was the President of the Storting at that time, mention the possibility that King Olav suffered great trauma upon learning of the outbreak of the first Gulf War, which began the day of his death. Olav's son Harald V succeeded him as King.\n\nThe night of his death (and for several days up until the state funeral), Norwegians mourned publicly, lighting hundreds of thousands of candles in the courtyard outside the Royal Palace in Oslo, with letters and cards placed amongst them. The National Archives have preserved all these cards. \n\nThe funeral of King Olav was held on January 30. 1991. During the funeral procession from the Royal Palace to Oslo Cathedral, over 100,000 people lined up along Karl Johans gate to pay their respects. Prime minister Gro Harlem Brundtland gave the eulogy at the state funeral before the casket was moved to Akershus Fortress where a private service was held. \n\nOlav was finally laid to rest next to his wife Märtha in the green sarcophagus of the Royal mausoleum.\n\nKing Olav's role during the dissolution between the union of Norway and Sweden and his leadership during the Second World War made him a symbol of Norwegian independence and national unity. As King Olav's wife, Princess Märtha, died of cancer, the King Olav V's Prize for Cancer Research was established in 1992.\n\nA 2005 poll by the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation named King Olav \"Norwegian of the Century\".\n\nViktor Andersen portrayed the two-year old Prince Alexander (Olav) in the 2009 NRK drama series \"Harry & Charles.\" Actor Anders Baasmo Christiansen was chosen to portray Crown Prince Olav in the 2016 drama \"The King's Choice.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12610941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12610941", "title": "Pancho Coimbre", "text": "Pancho Coimbre\n\nFrancisco \"Pancho\" Coimbre Atiles (29 January 1909 – 4 November 1989), more commonly known as Pancho Coimbre, was a Puerto Rican professional baseball player. He was born in the municipality of Coamo and moved to Ponce early in his life. It was in Ponce where he would begin to actively participate in sports, both in sprinting and baseball. Coimbre played thirteen seasons in the Puerto Rican Professional Baseball League (LBPPR), with the \"Leones de Ponce\". During this period the team won five league championships. He finished his career with an average of .337, and had an average of 2.2 strikeouts per season, this included four consecutive seasons from 1939 to 1942, without any strikeouts. Coimbre also won two LBPPR batting titles and the league's Most Valuable Player Award in 1943.\n\nCoimbre traveled to New York City, after completing his first professional season in Puerto Rico, where he joined the Porto Rico Stars baseball team of the Negro Leagues. He was contracted by the New York Cubans, while playing with the Porto Rico Stars. He joined the NY Cubans and played several seasons for them. Coimbre's batting average remained over the .300 mark, including two seasons where he batted over .400. While playing in the Negro leagues he was selected to play in the league's East–West All-Star games twice, where he played with several players who in the future would be elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. He also played with teams established in Colombia, Venezuela, the Dominican Republic and Mexico. Following his retirement Coimbre worked as a coach and manager of teams in both the professional and amateur leagues of Puerto Rico. Coimbre, who was eighty years old, died because he was unable to escape the flames of a burning building in which he lived.\n\nFrancisco Coimbre was born in Coamo, Puerto Rico, to Guillermo Coimbre and Zoila Atiles. Upon his birth, he was inscribed as a resident of Arroyo in his birth certificate, following a common practice at the time. In 1922, he moved to Ponce along his mother, in order to live closer to his sister, Angela Coimbre. There he began playing baseball under the training and supervision of Miguel Caratini and Antonio Gordan, two hall of famers in the local league.\n\nHis first accomplishments in sports where in track and field, where he competed in the 50-yard dash, eventually developing his skills in other aspects of the sport. He continued practicing this sport while attending high school. Later he was transferred to another educational institution in Caguas, Puerto Rico, but when he tried to participate in an athletic competition he was denied permission because he was classified in a different division on the records of Puerto Rico's Instruction Department.\n\nThis event led to a court case which marked the first time in Puerto Rico that a court hearing was scheduled for a case involving sports. He subsequently transferred to Ponce High School, where the Instruction Department tried to have him removed of the athleticism team based on allegations that he had received payment as a student athlete. Judge Roberto Tood Jr. determined that the evidence against Coimbre was insufficient during the hearing and the case was dropped.\n\nIn high school, Coimbre played in a school league in the positions of pitcher and second baseman. His incursion in organized baseball came about when he was recommended by a member of the \"Leones de Ponce\", to the team officials. The Leones de Ponce was the local team of the Puerto Rican amateur league who was to play in a series against the San Juan Athletics. During that season the team needed additional players and he was selected by the team's owner, Pipo Maldonado. He debuted in a game that took place in Ponce, where he was given the position of right fielder and he had four hits in five at bats. He continued in the team and in 1928 participated in a championship series between his team and the team of Guayama, where Ponce won on six games. In the last game of this series Coimbre pitched and won with a final score of 5–3, in a game where the team almost lost following an error.\n\nCoimbre's first performance outside Puerto Rico was in the Dominican Republic, where he played with a team named Sandino in Santiago de los Caballeros in 1927. He was accompanied by several Puerto Rican players during this stay. In 1929, he played for the \"Magallanes\" a team in Venezuela where he played as a pitcher and outfielder. Four of his teammates, who now had homes in Caracas, had played with him in the Puerto Rican league. After having a solid performance in the 1930 season of the amateur league, he was recruited by the Tigres del Licey team to play in the Dominican Republic, which was coached by Charles Dore. Following that season, he continued alternating between both leagues, playing with Santo Domingo in 1931.\n\nAfter the Puerto Rican league season came to an end in 1932, Coimbre went to work as a security guard in a penal institution and only played with a semi-professional team. Shortly after, he was offered a contract to play in La Guaira, with a team called Santa Marta. The season concluded with Buchipluma, a second team owned by Santa Marta's proprietor winning the league's championship. Following his participation with Santa Marta, he continued playing, both in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. While playing with Licey, the team developed a rivalry with El Escogido, which gave Coimbre an opportunity to establish relationships with several players, from both countries. During this period the team continued to be coached by Dore, and included several known Dominican players. The team would win the league's championship once, but Coimbre decided not to assist the ceremony where the trophy was awarded choosing to stay in his hotel room instead. Dore took the cup to Coimbre so that he could have it in his possession some days, but he rejected this and suggested that it be filled with money for a donation.\n\nIn 1935, he moved to Maracaibo where he played for Pastora, in Zulia's Stadium. The team reached the league's final series but lost to Magallanes. Prior to this series, the team had to travel to Caimbas, an industrial city where the games where scheduled. The usual way of traveling there was by boat, but following Coimbre's advice the team was transported there by airplane. After the season was over he moved to La Victoria, Aragua, where one of his friends resided in a hacienda. There he played in a series that served to determine what the final roster of Concordia, a team that was going to travel to Puerto Rico that year, would be. Coimbre participated in the series, but choose to play with Ponce instead of Concordia. In 1937, he returned to the Dominican Republic and his team won the league's championship in what he described as the \"most powerful team in his memory\".\n\nLater that year, when he returned to Puerto Rico, Coimbre discovered that the \"Liga de Béisbol Profesional de Puerto Rico\" (LBPPR) was being organized. When the league was organized they elected Teófilo Maldonado, a press writer, as their president. Coimbre joined the Ponce-Kofresí team, that represented Ponce. The team was coached by Isidro Fabré and owned by Juan Luis Boscio and the team's roster included several players that were known by the local fanbase, After the season's conclusion, Coimbre traveled to New York City for the first time in his life, after being invited by a close friend. Coimbre's original intention was to visit his sister instead, with whom he lived while in the city. In New York, he met Santiago Bartolomei who was the owner of a team named Puerto Rico Stars (also known as \"Puerto Rican Stars\"). Bartolomei visited Coimbre along a group of players and offered him a contract to play with the team. He accepted and joined the team that included players from Puerto Rico and Cuba.\nWhile he played for the Porto Rico Stars, Alejandro Pompéz called him and made him an offer to play with the New York Cubans, which at the time he owned. Pompéz became interested in Coimbre after hearing several reviews of his work, but he was skeptical of these claims and therefore he was hesitant to contract him at first and didn't do so until a group of players recommended him. He debuted in a game against a team named Buschwick, in a game that took place in Brooklyn, New York. In his first two games with the team he connected four hits, three singles and a double. Following this performance Pompéz informed him that he was going to stay with the team. After the season concluded he was instantly offered a second contract with the Cubans, which by this time where playing in the National League of the Negro League. He also participated with Ponce during the 1940–1941 season of the winter league and concluded the season with a batting average of .401 and no strikeouts. During his second season with the Cubans he had an average of .409, and was included in the league's All-star Game for the first time in his career.\n\nFollowing this, he returned to Puerto Rico and had an average of .372 with his team. This season marked the first time that Ponce won the LBPPR championship. The next season Coimbre won his first batting championship in the Puerto Rican Professional Baseball League, finishing with an average of .342 after he connected hits in 22 consecutive games. In 1943, he had his best season in the Negro leagues in the United States, when he was selected to the East's All-Star team for a second occasion and had an average of .428, the highest one in his career with the Cubans. That year Coimbre received a tribute in the Yankee Stadium, where hundreds of Puerto Ricans reunited and awarded him a scroll and a ring recognizing his performance. That same year, he led the LBPPR in runs batted in, scoring 27 RBIs. He was subsequently invited to play in the Liga Mexicana de Beisbol (Mexican Baseball League) for the first time in his career, where he joined a team called Puebla. In the beginning, he had problems adapting to Mexico's climate however, his average improved over the course of the season, eventually finishing as one of the league's leaders. Coimbre experienced a similar pattern in the 1944–1945 LBPPR season, where he was unable to score a hit in the first games, but finished winning his second batting championship.\n\nLater that year, he joined a team named \"El Torices\", which was organized in Barranquilla, Colombia. His participation with the team mostly consisted of managing work since he was unable to play due to a previous injury. During his time of inactivity, he worked in the Administration of Parks and Recreation, supervising softball games organized by local businessmen. Another injury product of an accidental pitch ended Coimbre's participation in the 1946 LBPPR season, the injury's treatment required hospitalization and recovery treatment. After recovering from the injury he traveled to New York in 1948, originally with the intention of joining the Baltimore Elite Giants or the New York Black Yankees. During this visit he was contacted by Chebrook, a team of the Canadian league to play in the right field position.\n\nCoimbre was not able to play in his full capacity because he still experienced problems with the injury on his knee. He ended the season batting an average of .316, in a season where the team won the league's championship. Coimbre spent the 1948–1951 working as a designated hitter in the LBPPR. His final season in the league was in 1952, when he was reassigned to play in the right field and was the fourth player in the batting lineup. His last game was against the \"Cangrejeros de Santurce\", where a wild pitch re-injured his knee, prompting Coimbre's decision to retire as an active player.\n\nFollowing his retirement Coimbre began working as the coach of the Leones de Ponce, leading the team to two championships as well as extending his work to the Caribbean Series, a tournament where the champions of each Caribbean league participate. He received an invitation from the team owner of the Caguas-Guayama team, which was established in Panama, to work as the team manager. Coimbre also worked in the administration of the \"Indios de Mayagüez\", when the team traveled to play in Havana, Cuba. He subsequently decided to work as a coach in the amateur league, while continuing his participation with the professional Ponce team and began coaching a team that represented Juana Díaz, Puerto Rico.\n\nCoimbre began promoting an idea that focused in the performance of the team, instead of the success of individual players. In his first day as an amateur coach, Coimbre summoned the players to a conference, where he noted that if all of them felt like \"stars\" and played for statistics their collective performance would suffer. He won a national championship with the team, but decided to leave it and work with the \"Cachorros de Ponce\", where he won another championship. During this time he also worked as a talent scout with the Pittsburgh Pirates. As a scout he was directly responsible for the hiring of Roberto Clemente, when he urged the Pirates to draft him in the first draw of the Major League Baseball Draft, even though Clemente was under a minor league contract with the Brooklyn Dodgers.\n\nCoimbre died on November 4, 1989, when he was trapped in a house fire. The fire originated in the house's kitchen while he was cooking, consuming the structures wooden frame. When Coimbre tried to escape he was unable to open the front door, because he had locked it with a padlock.\n\nThe City of Ponce honored the memory of Coímbre by naming its sports museum the \"Museo Pancho Coímbre\". The museum, which contains a large collection of sports memorabilia, is located on the Calle (Street) Lolita Tizol. Also, in Ponce, he is honored at the Park for the Illustrious Ponce Citizens. Also the building housing the Secretaría de Recreación y Deportes on Avenida Las Américas in Ponce is named \"Francisco \"Pancho\" Coímbre\". The town of Coamo also honored Coimbre by naming a sports complex \"Complejo Deportivo Francisco Pancho Coimbre Park\" after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "27209404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27209404", "title": "Quantified self", "text": "Quantified self\n\nQuantified self, also known as lifelogging, is a specific movement by Gary Wolf and Kevin Kelly from Wired magazine, which began in 2007 and tries to incorporate technology into data acquisition on aspects of a person's daily life. People collect data in terms of food consumed, quality of surrounding air, mood, skin conductance as a proxy for arousal, pulse oximetry for blood oxygen level, and performance, whether mental or physical. Wolf has described quantified self as \"self-knowledge through self-tracking with technology\".\n\nPeople choose to wear self-monitoring and self-sensing sensors (e.g. EEG, ECG) and wearable computing to collect data. Among the specific biometrics one can track are insulin and cortisol levels, sequence DNA, and the microbial cells which inhabit one's body.\n\nOther terms for using self-tracking data to improve daily functioning are self-tracking, auto-analytics, body hacking, self-quantifying, self-surveillance, and personal informatics.\n\nAccording to Riphagen et al., the history of the quantimetric self-tracking using wearable computers began in the 1970s:\n\n\"The history of self-tracking using wearable sensors in combination with wearable computing and \nwireless communication already exists for many years, and also appeared, in the form of sousveillance back in the 1970s [13, 12]\"\nQuantimetric self-sensing was proposed for the use of wearable computers to automatically sense and measure exercise and dietary intake in 2002:\n\n\"Sensors that measure biological signals, ... a personal data recorder that records ... Lifelong videocapture together with blood-sugar levels, ... correlate blood-sugar levels with\nactivities such as eating, by capturing a food record of intake.\"\n\nThe \"quantified self\" or \"self-tracking\" are contemporary labels. They reflect the broader trend of the progressions for organization and meaning-making in human history; there has been a use of self-taken measurements and data collection that attempted the same goals that the quantified movement has. Scientisation plays a major role in legitimizing self-knowledge through self-tracking. \nAs early as 2001, media artists such as Ellie Harrison and Alberto Frigo extensively pioneered the concept, proposing a new direction of labour-intensive self-tracking without using privacy infringing automation.\n\nThe term \"quantified self\" appears to have been proposed in San Francisco, CA, by Wired Magazine editors Gary Wolf and Kevin Kelly in 2007 as \"a collaboration of users and tool makers who share an interest in self knowledge through self-tracking.\" In 2010, Wolf spoke about the movement at TED, and in May 2011, the first international conference was held in Mountain View, California. There are conferences in America and Europe. Gary Wolf said \"Almost everything we do generates data.\" Wolf suggests that companies target advertising or recommend products use data from phones, tablets, computers, other technology, and credit cards. However, using the data they make can give people new ways to deal with medical problems, help sleep patterns, and improve diet.\n\nPhilosophers like Michel Foucault are recognized as being a part of the foundations in the ideas of the quantified movement. Foucault and other philosophers focus on the idea of \"care of the self,\" in which they emphasize the importance of self-knowledge for personal development. Foucault explains that it involves looking inside oneself and emphasizes self-reflection, which is also associated with the quantified self movement, where self-tracking participants can attend \"show-and-tell\" style conventions to share their experiences with the technology.\n\nToday the global community has over a hundred groups in 34 countries around the world, with the largest groups in San Francisco, New York, London, and Boston having over 1500 members each.\n\nLike any empirical study, the primary method is the collection and analysis of data. In many cases, data are collected automatically using wearable sensors -not limited to, but often worn on the wrist. In other cases, data may be logged manually.\n\nThe data are typically analyzed using traditional techniques such as linear regression to establish correlations among the variables under investigation. As in every attempt to understand potentially high-dimensional data, visualization techniques can suggest hypotheses that may be tested more rigorously using formal methods. One simple example of a visualization method is to view the change in some variable – say weight in pounds – over time.\n\nEven though the idea is not new, the technology is. Many people would track what they would eat or how much physical activity they got within a week. Technology has made it easier and simpler to gather and analyze personal data. Since these technologies have become smaller and cheaper to be put in smart phones or tablets, it is easier to take the quantitative methods used in science and business and apply them to the personal sphere.\n\nNarratives constitute a symbiotic relationship with bodies of large data. Therefore, quantified self participants are encouraged to share their experiences of self-tracking at various conferences and meetings.\n\nA major application of quantified self has been in health and wellness improvement. Many devices and services help with tracking physical activity, caloric intake, sleep quality, posture, and other factors involved in personal well-being. Corporate wellness programs, for example, will often encourage some form of tracking. Genetic testing and other services have also become popular.\n\nQuantified self is also being used to improve personal or professional productivity, with tools and services being used to help people keep track of what they do during the workday, where they spend their time, and whom they interact with.\n\nOne other application has been in the field of education, where wearable devices are being used in schools so that students can learn more about their own activities and related math and science.Many start-up companies occupy the market right now. Most of them help track data for some type of health pattern, be it sleep or asthma. However, there are bigger companies such as Nike, Jawbone and FitBit that occupy some of the space in the market.\n\nA recent movement in quantified self is gamification. There is a wide variety of self-tracking technologies that allow everyday activities to be turned into games by awarding points or monetary value to encourage people to compete with their friends. The success of connected sport is part of the gamification movement. People can pledge a certain amount of real or fake money, or receive awards and trophies.\n\nMany of these self-tracking applications or technologies are compatible with each other and other websites so people can share information with one another. Each technology may integrate with other apps or websites to show a bigger picture of health patterns, goals, and journaling. For example, one may figure out that migraines were more likely to have painful side effects when using a particular migraine drug. Or one can study personal temporal associations between exercise and mood.\n\nThe quantified self is also demonstrating to be a major component of \"big data science\", due to the amount of data that users are collecting on a daily basis. Although these data set streams are not conventional big data, they become interesting sites for data analysis projects, that could be used in medical-related fields to predict health patterns or aide in genomic studies. Examples of studies that have been done using QS data include projects such as the DIYgenomics studies, the Harvard's Personal Genome Project, and the American Gut microbiome project.\n\nQuantified Baby is a branch of the Quantified Self movement that is concerned with collecting extensive data on a baby's daily activities, and using this data to make inferences about behaviour and health. A number of software and hardware products exist to assist data collection by the parent or to collect data automatically for later analysis. Reactions to \"Quantified Baby\" are mixed.\n\nParents are often told by health professionals to record daily activities about their babies in the first few months, such as feeding times, sleeping times and nappy changes. This is useful for both the parent (used to maintain a schedule and ensure they remain organised) and for the health professional (to make sure the baby is on target and occasionally to assist in diagnosis).\n\nFor quantified self, knowledge is power, and knowledge about oneself easily translates as a tool for self-improvement. The aim for many is to use this tracking to ultimately become better parents. Some parents use sleep trackers because they worry about sudden infant death syndrome.\n\nA number of apps exist that have been made for parents wanting to track their baby's daily activities. The most frequently tracked metrics are feeding, sleeping and diaper changes. Mood, activity, medical appointments and milestones are also sometimes covered. Other apps are specifically made for breastfeeding mothers, or those who are pumping their milk to build up a supply for their baby.\n\nQuantified baby, as in quantified self, is associated with a combination of wearable sensors and wearable computing. The synergy of these is related to the concept of the internet of things.\n\nNotable self-quantification tools are listed below. Numerous other hardware devices and software are available, as a result of advances and cost reductions in sensor technology, mobile connectivity, and battery life.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Quantified Self movement has faced some criticism related to the limitations it inherently contains or might pose to other domains. Within these debates, there are some discussions around the nature, responsibility and outcome of the Quantified Self movement and its derivative practices. Generally, most bodies of criticism tackle the issue of data exploitation and data privacy but also health literacy skills in the practice of self-tracking. While most of the users engaging in self tracking practices are using the gathered data for self-knowledge and self-improvement, in some cases, self-tracking is pushed and forced by employers over employees in certain workplace environments, health and life insurers or by substance addiction programs (drug and alcohol monitoring) in order to monitor the physical activity of the subject and analyze the data in order to gather conclusions. Usually the data gathered by this practice of self-tracking can be accessed by commercial, governmental, research and marketing agencies.\n\nAnother recurrent line of debate revolves around \"data fetishism\". Data fetishism is referred to as the phenomenon evolving when active users of self-tracking devices become enticed by the satisfaction and sense of achievement and fulfillment that numerical data offers. Proponents of such line of criticism tend to claim that data in this sense becomes simplistic, where complex phenomenon become transcribed into reductionist data. This reductionist line of criticism generally incorporates fears and concerns with the ways in which ideas on health are redefined, as well as doctor-patient dynamics and the experience of self-hood among self-trackers. Because of such arguments, the Quantified Self movement has been criticized for providing predetermined ideals of health, well-being and self-awareness. Rather than increasing the personal skills for self-knowledge, it distances the user from the self by offering an inherently normative and reductionist framework.\n\nAn alternative line of criticism still linked to the reductionist discourse but still proposing a more hopeful solution is related the lack of health literacy among most of self-trackers. The European Health Literacy Survey Consortium Health defines health literacy as \"[...] people's knowledge, motivations, and competencies to access, understand, appraise, and apply health information in order to make judgements and take decisions in everyday life concerning healthcare, disease prevention and health promotion to maintain or improve quality of life during the life course.\" Generally, people tend to focus mostly on the data collecting stage, while stages of data archiving, analysis and interpretation are often overlooked because of the skills necessary to conduct such processes, which explains the call for the improvement of health literacy skills among Self-Quantifiers.\n\nThe health literacy critique is different from the data-fetishist critique in its approach to data influence on the human life, health and experience. While the data-fetishist critical discourse ascribes a crucial power of influence to numbers and data, the health literacy critique views gathered data as useless and powerless without the human context and the analysis and reflection skills of the user that are needed to act on the numbers. Data collection alone is not deterministic or normative, according to the health literacy critique. The \"know thy numbers to know thyself\" slogan of the Quantified Self movement is inconsistent, it has been claimed, in the sense that it does not fully acknowledge the need for auxiliary skills of health literacy to actually get to \"know thyself\". The solution proposed by proponents of the health literacy critique in order to improve the practice of self-tracking and its results is a focus on addressing individual and systemic barriers. The individual barriers are faced by elderly citizens when having to deal with contemporary technology or in cases where there is a need for culturally-sound practices while systemic barriers could be overcome when involving the participation of more health literacy experts and the organization of health literacy education.\n\n"}
{"id": "646541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=646541", "title": "Roy Walford", "text": "Roy Walford\n\nRoy Lee Walford, M. D. (June 29, 1924 - April 27, 2004) was a pioneer in the field of caloric restriction. He died at age 79 of respiratory failure as a complication of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (commonly known as Lou Gehrig's or motor neurone disease). He was a leading advocate of calorie restriction as a method of life extension and health improvement.\n\nWalford is credited with significantly furthering aging research by his discovery that laboratory mice, when fed a diet that restricted their caloric intake by 50% yet maintaining nutritional requirements, almost doubled their expected life span.\n\nHe received his medical degree from the University of Chicago in 1948. He completed his internship at Gorgas Hospital, Panama, and served his residency at the V.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He then served two years in the US Air Force during the Korean War.\n\nWalford joined the faculty at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1954. He became a Professor of Pathology at the UCLA School of Medicine in 1966. He became Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emeritus, for UCLA, when he left to join the crew of Biosphere 2 in 1991.\n\nWhile at UCLA, Walford served in the following roles:\n\nIn addition to his service at UCLA, he was an expert advisor in immunology for the World Health Organization from 1969 to 1984, was a senatorial delegate to the White House Conference on Aging in 1981, and a member of the National Institute on Aging.\n\nHis honors and awards include:\n\nWalford and his work were featured in print in dozens of articles in popular publications such as \"Omni\", \"Discover\", and \"Scientific American\". During his life he also made dozens of featured appearances on various television shows.\n\nIn 1947, while on vacation during medical school, Walford and Albert Hibbs, a mathematics graduate student, used statistical analysis of biased roulette wheels to \"break the bank\" in Reno. They tracked the results of the spins, determined which wheels were biased, and then bet heavily on the ones which were unbalanced. The casinos eventually realized that Walford and his friend knew what they were doing and threw them out. A Life Magazine photographer captured the pair drinking milk and counting their chips in a photograph published in the December 8, 1947 issue. Their methods were also mentioned in the roulette book \"The Eudaemonic Pie\" by Thomas Bass. Different sources have the pair winning anywhere from $6,500 to $42,000. The high end is more likely, as Walford was reputed to have paid for part of his medical school education and a house from his winnings. The pair also bought a yacht and sailed the Caribbean for over a year.\n\nIn 1981, Walford began a commercial collaboration with fellow researchers Richard Weindruch and Kathleen Yankee Hall, and her husband William Hall, a wealthy businessman. In her tribute after his death, Kathleen Hall wrote of Walford, \"we both threw in a few thousand dollars and started a small business together.\" Incorporated in California as Gerontix, the company was to sell supplements intended to improve health and increase life span. The first Gerontix product was butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), with lysine and zinc, which was sold in capsules and marketed as a treatment for herpes. Motivated by the success of the bestselling book , by Durk Pearson and Sandy Shaw, the group intended to sell a package of products, called MaxiLife, which would capitalize on the release of Walford's book, \"Maximum Life Span\". It was expected that Walford, a highly publicized researcher, would experience the same success as Pearson and Shaw. Before Walford's book was published and Gerontix started to manufacture its coordinated products, the manufacturer Twin Labs began to sell a single multi-ingredient supplement called MaxiLIFE. Despite the potential for trademark conflict, the Gerontix group elected to proceed with plans to use the name. Twin Labs brought suit against Gerontix for trademark infringement, which it won in 1984. Before the resolution of the lawsuit, the Gerontix MaxiLife products were brought to market and sold poorly, partly because of the lackluster sales of Walford's book. Lack of success in federal court and in health food stores led to the demise of Gerontix.\n\nIn Appendix B of Walford's \"Maximum Life Span\" he noted, \"Additional additives, such as antioxidants and some of the other materials I've listed in Chapters 7 and 8, can be obtained from Gerontix Biological Research Products...,\" but he did not disclose that he would profit from the sale of Gerontix products. The company's MaxiLife product brochure, which refers to Walford and his research, also makes no mention of his connection to Gerontix.\n\nWalford was one of the eight “crew members” who were sealed inside Biosphere 2 where they lived from September 26, 1991 to September 26, 1993. Walford served as the crew's physician. During his stay in Biosphere 2, the crew found that they could not grow as much food as anticipated, so Walford convinced the crew to follow his calorie restriction diet. It is claimed that this action “produced dramatic weight loss and improved health.” Despite this, in November of the first year the crew decided to open a cache of emergency food supplies grown outside of the bubble to supplement their meager diets.\n\nWalford's death from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has provoked consideration about whether his practice of caloric restriction (CR) may have contributed to, or accelerated, his development of the disease. Research on a transgenic mouse model of ALS demonstrates that CR may hasten the onset of death in ALS. Hamadeh et al. therefore concluded, \"These results suggest that CR diet is not a protective strategy for patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and hence is contraindicated.\" Hamadeh et al. also note two human studies that show \"low energy intake correlates with death in people with ALS.\" However, in the first study, Slowie, Paige, and Antel state, \"The reduction in energy intake by ALS patients did not correlate with the proximity of death but rather was a consistent aspect of the illness.\" They conclude, \"ALS patients have a chronically deficient intake of energy and recommended augmentation of energy intake.\"\n\nPreviously, Pedersen and Mattson found that in the ALS mouse model, CR \"accelerates the clinical course\" of the disease and had no benefits. Suggesting that a calorically dense diet may slow ALS, a ketogenic diet in the ALS mouse model has been shown to slow the progress of disease. More recently, Mattson et al. opine that the death by ALS of Roy Walford, a pioneer in CR research and its antiaging effects, may have been a result of his own practice of CR. However, as Mattson et al. acknowledge, Walford's single case is insufficient to establish the proposed a cause-effect relation.\n\nWalford himself speculated that his disease may have been caused by the combination of chronic hypoxia and exposure to carbon monoxide and nitrous oxide in Biosphere 2.\n\nAccording to Walford's friend and colleague, Kathleen Hall, his diagnosis of ALS came as a result of her urging him to see a physician when she noticed \"the strangeness in Roy's gait.\" She says that before his death Walford \"continued writing, taking courses on film production. He had me all over New York and in Dallas for just the right production shots.\" Meanwhile, Hall remembers that \"Roy and I together with his daughter, Lisa, and his friends exhausted all the literature, looking for a cure, a solution. I found myself scouting the alleys of Chinatown in New York searching out a particular mushroom, looking for the best grass to help him through the pain.\" Even before developing ALS, Walford was no stranger to \"grass.\" In his book \"Eternity Soup: Inside the Quest to End Aging\", Greg Critser says that Walford's \"consumption of marijuana was legendary.\"\n\nIn 1986, Walford authored the book \"The 120 Year Diet: How to Double Your Vital Years\", which advocated a calorie-restricted diet known as the CRON-diet. He argued for a \"high/low'\" diet (high in nutrition, low in calories) to increase longevity. It was negatively reviewed by Fredrick J. Stare in \"The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition\", who described the book as \"pseudoscientific and very profuse\".\n\nWalford also authored \"Beyond the 120 Year Diet: How to Double Your Vital Years\" in 2000. Walford wrote that the CRON-diet \"will retard your rate of ageing, extend lifespan (up to perhaps 150 to 160 years, depending on when you start and how thoroughly you hold to it), and markedly decrease susceptibility to most major diseases.\"\n\nWalford authored several books, and set out his dietary beliefs in the bestseller \"Beyond the 120-Year Diet\". In addition, he published at least 340 scientific papers, mainly focused on the biology of aging.\n\nWalford authored or co-authored the following books:\n\n"}
{"id": "60904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60904", "title": "Sergey Brin", "text": "Sergey Brin\n\nSergey Mikhaylovich Brin (; born August 21, 1973) is an American computer scientist and internet entrepreneur. Together with Larry Page, he co-founded Google. Brin is the President of Google's parent company Alphabet Inc. As of October 2018, Brin is the 13th-richest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of US$50.6 billion.\n\nBrin immigrated to the United States with his family from the Soviet Union at the age of 6. He earned his bachelor's degree at the University of Maryland, College Park, following in his father's and grandfather's footsteps by studying mathematics, as well as computer science. After graduation, he enrolled in Stanford University to acquire a PhD in computer science. There he met Page, with whom he later became friends. They crammed their dormitory room with inexpensive computers and applied Brin's data mining system to build a web search engine. The program became popular at Stanford, and they suspended their PhD studies to start up Google in Susan Wojcicki's garage in Menlo Park.\n\n\"The Economist\" referred to Brin as an \"Enlightenment Man\", and as someone who believes that \"knowledge is always good, and certainly always better than ignorance\", a philosophy that is summed up by Google's mission statement, \"Organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful\", and its unofficial yet sometimes controversial motto, \"Don't be evil\".\n\nThrough his 8 year marriage to Anne Wojcicki, the founder of 23andme, he was the brother-in-law of Susan Wojcicki, the CEO of YouTube.\n\nBrin was born in Moscow in the Soviet Union, to Russian Jewish parents, Yevgenia and Mikhail Brin, both graduates of Moscow State University (MSU). His father is a mathematics professor at the University of Maryland, and his mother a researcher at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.\n\nThe Brin family lived in a three-room apartment in central Moscow, which they also shared with Sergey's paternal grandmother. In \"The Story of Sergey Brin\", Brin told Mark Malseed of \"Moment\" magazine, \"I've known for a long time that my father wasn't able to pursue the career he wanted\", but Brin only picked up the details years later after they had settled in the United States.\n\nIn 1977, after his father returned from a mathematics conference in Warsaw, Poland, Mikhail Brin announced that it was time for the family to emigrate. \"We cannot stay here any more\", he told his wife and mother. At the conference, he was able to \"mingle freely with colleagues from the United States, France, England and Germany and discovered that his intellectual brethren in the West were not 'monsters.'\" He added, \"I was the only one in the family who decided it was really important to leave.\"\n\nSergey's mother was less willing to leave their home in Moscow, where they had spent their entire lives. Malseed writes, \"For Genia, the decision ultimately came down to Sergey. While her husband admits he was thinking as much about his own future as his son's, for her, 'it was 80/20' about Sergey.\" They formally applied for their exit visa in September 1978, and as a result his father was \"promptly fired\". For related reasons, his mother had to leave her job. For the next eight months, without any steady income, they were forced to take on temporary jobs as they waited, afraid their request would be denied as it was for many refuseniks. During this time his parents shared responsibility for looking after him and his father taught himself computer programming. In May 1979, they were granted their official exit visas and were allowed to leave the country.\n\nThe Brin family lived in Vienna and Paris while Mikhail Brin secured a teaching position at the University of Maryland with help from Anatole Katok. During this time, the Brin family received support and assistance from the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. They arrived in the United States on October 25, 1979.\n\nAt an interview in October 2000, Brin said, \"I know the hard times that my parents went through there and am very thankful that I was brought to the States.\" In 2017, Brin later recalled: \"I came here to the US at age six with my family from the Soviet Union, which was at that time the greatest enemy the US had... It was a dire period, the cold war, as some people remember it. It was under the threat of nuclear annihilation. And even then the US had the courage to take me and my family in as refugees.\"\n\nIn the summer of 1990, a few weeks before his 17th birthday, his father led a group of high school math students, including Sergey, on a two-week exchange program to the Soviet Union. His roommate on the trip was future Carnegie Mellon University computer science professor John Stamper. As Brin recalls, the trip awakened his childhood fear of authority and he remembered that \"his first impulse on confronting Soviet oppression had been to throw pebbles at a police car\". Malseed adds, \"On the second day of the trip, while the group toured a sanatorium in the countryside near Moscow, Brin took his father aside, looked him in the eye and said, 'Thank you for taking us all out of Russia.'\"\n\nBrin attended elementary school at Paint Branch Montessori School in Adelphi, Maryland, but he received further education at home; his father, a professor in the department of mathematics at the University of Maryland, encouraged him to learn mathematics and his family helped him retain his Russian-language skills. He attended Eleanor Roosevelt High School, Greenbelt, Maryland. In September 1990, Brin enrolled in the University of Maryland, where he received his Bachelor of Science from the Department of Computer Science in 1993 with honors in computer science and mathematics at the age of 19, which is part of the University of Maryland College of Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences.\n\nBrin began his graduate study in computer science at Stanford University on a graduate fellowship from the National Science Foundation. In 1993, he interned at Wolfram Research, the developers of Mathematica. , he was on leave from his PhD studies at Stanford.\n\nDuring an orientation for new students at Stanford, he met Larry Page. They seemed to disagree on most subjects. But after spending time together, they \"became intellectual soul-mates and close friends\". Brin's focus was on developing data mining systems while Page's was in extending \"the concept of inferring the importance of a research paper from its citations in other papers\". Together, the pair authored a paper titled \"The Anatomy of a Large-Scale Hypertextual Web Search Engine\".\n\nTo convert the backlink data gathered by BackRub's web crawler into a measure of importance for a given web page, Brin and Page developed the PageRank algorithm, and realized that it could be used to build a search engine far superior to existing ones. The new algorithm relied on a new kind of technology that analyzed the relevance of the backlinks that connected one Web page to another, and allowed the number of links and their rank, to determine the rank of the page. Combining their ideas, the pair began utilizing Page's dormitory room as a machine laboratory, and extracted spare parts from inexpensive computers to create a device that they used to connect the nascent search engine with Stanford's broadband campus network.\n\nAfter filling Page's room with equipment, they then converted Brin's dorm room into an office and programming center, where they tested their new search engine designs on the Web. The rapid growth of their project caused Stanford's computing infrastructure to experience problems.\n\nPage and Brin used the former's basic HTML programming skills to set up a simple search page for users, as they did not have a web page developer to create anything visually elaborate. They also began using any computer part they could find to assemble the necessary computing power to handle searches by multiple users. As their search engine grew in popularity among Stanford users, it required additional servers to process the queries. In August 1996, the initial version of Google was made available on the Stanford Web site.\n\nBy early 1997, the BackRub page described the state as follows:\n\nBackRub already exhibited the rudimentary functions and characteristics of a search engine: a query input was entered and it provided a list of backlinks ranked by importance. Page recalled: \"We realized that we had a querying tool. It gave you a good overall ranking of pages and ordering of follow-up pages.\" Page said that in mid-1998 they finally realized the further potential of their project: \"Pretty soon, we had 10,000 searches a day. And we figured, maybe this is really real.\"\n\nSome compared Page and Brin's vision to the impact of Johannes Gutenberg, the inventor of modern printing:\n\nThe comparison was also noted by the authors of \"The Google Story\": \"Not since Gutenberg... has any new invention empowered individuals, and transformed access to information, as profoundly as Google.\" Also, not long after the two \"cooked up their new engine for web searches, they began thinking about information that was at the time beyond the web,\" such as digitizing books and expanding health information.\n\nBrin is working on other, more personal projects that reach beyond Google. For example, he and Page are trying to help solve the world's energy and climate problems at Google's philanthropic arm, Google.org, which invests in the alternative energy industry to find wider sources of renewable energy. The company acknowledges that its founders want \"to solve really big problems using technology\".\n\nIn October 2010, for example, they invested in a major offshore wind power development to assist the East coast power grid, which will eventually become one of about a dozen offshore wind farms that are proposed for the region. A week earlier they introduced a car that, with \"artificial intelligence\", can drive itself using video cameras and radar sensors. In the future, drivers of cars with similar sensors would have fewer accidents. These safer vehicles could therefore be built lighter and require less fuel consumption. They are trying to get companies to create innovative solutions to increasing the world's energy supply. He is an investor in Tesla Motors, which has developed the Tesla Roadster (2008), a range battery electric vehicle as well as the Tesla Model S, a range battery electric vehicle.\n\nIn 2004, he and Page were named \"Persons of the Week\" by \"ABC World News Tonight\". In January 2005 he was nominated to be one of the World Economic Forum's \"Young Global Leaders\". In June 2008, Brin invested $4.5 million in Space Adventures, the Virginia-based space tourism company. His investment will serve as a deposit for a reservation on one of Space Adventures' proposed flights in 2011. Space Adventures, the only company that sends tourists to space, has sent five of them so far.\n\nBrin and Page jointly own a customized Boeing 767-200 and a Dornier Alpha Jet, and pay $1.3 million a year to house them and two Gulfstream V jets owned by Google executives at Moffett Federal Airfield. The aircraft have had scientific equipment installed by NASA to allow experimental data to be collected in flight.\n\nIn 2012, Brin has been involved with the Project Glass program and has demoed eyeglass prototypes. Project Glass is a research and development program by Google to develop an augmented reality head-mounted display (HMD). The intended purpose of Project Glass products would be the hands-free displaying of information currently available to most smartphone users, and allowing for interaction with the Internet via natural language voice commands.\n\nBrin was also involved in the Google driverless car project. In September 2012, at the signing of the California Driverless Vehicle Bill, Brin predicted that within five years, robotic cars will be available to the general public.\n\nBrin is a supporter of lab-grown meat and kite-energy systems.\n\n\"The Economist\" magazine describes Brin's approach to life, like Page's, as based on a vision summed up by Google's motto, \"of making all the world's information 'universally accessible and useful.\n\nRemembering his youth and his family's reasons for leaving the Soviet Union, Brin \"agonized over Google's decision to appease the Communist government of China by allowing it to censor search engine results\", but in the end he felt that the Chinese people would still be better off having Google available.\n\nOn January 12, 2010, Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, David Drummond issued a statement on Google's Official Blog that it would no longer agree to censor its search engine in China and may exit the country altogether. In the statement he reveals that the company was investigating a massive cyber attack originating in China against Google and many other tech companies that had begun a month earlier. On Jan 14, The Washington Post reported that \"according to congressional and industry sources\", \"[a]t least 34 companies -- including Yahoo, Symantec, Adobe, Northrop Grumman and Dow Chemical -- were attacked\" in a coordinated program. In his statement, Drummond reported that the attack on Google had resulted in the theft of intellectual property and that the evidence suggested \"a primary goal of the attackers was accessing the Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists.\" He said Google believed they had not succeeded: \"Only two Gmail accounts appear to have been accessed, and that activity was limited to account information (such as the date the account was created) and subject line, rather than the content of emails themselves.\" On April 19, 2010, the New York Times reported that the stolen intellectual property was \"one of Google's crown jewels\": the password system, code named Gaia, that allows its users access to virtually all of Google's web services with a single login. The attack did not access any passwords.\n\nIn late March 2010, Google officially discontinued its China-based search engine while keeping its uncensored Hong Kong site in operation. Speaking for Google, Brin stated during an interview, \"One of the reasons I am glad we are making this move in China is that the China situation was really emboldening other countries to try and implement their own firewalls.\" During another interview with \"Der Spiegel\", he added, \"For us it has always been a discussion about how we can best fight for openness on the Internet. We believe that this is the best thing that we can do for preserving the principles of the openness and freedom of information on the Internet.\"\n\nSenator Byron Dorgan stated that Google's decision was \"a strong step in favor of freedom of expression and information.\" And Congressman Bob Goodlatte said, \"I applaud Google for its courageous step to stop censoring search results on Google.cn. Google has drawn a line in the sand and is shining a light on the very dark area of individual liberty restrictions in China.\" From the business perspective, many recognize that the move is likely to affect Google's profits. \"The New Republic\" adds that \"Google seems to have arrived at the same link that was obvious to Andrei Sakharov: the one between science and freedom,\" referring to the move as \"heroism\".\n\nIn May 2007, Brin married biotech analyst and entrepreneur Anne Wojcicki in the Bahamas. They had a son in late 2008 and a daughter in late 2011. In August 2013, it was announced that Brin and his wife were living separately after Brin had an extramarital affair with Google Glass's marketing director. In June 2015, Brin and Wojcicki finalized their divorce.\n\nBrin's mother, Eugenia, has been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. In 2008, he decided to make a donation to the University of Maryland School of Medicine, where his mother is being treated.\n\nBrin used the services of 23andMe and discovered that although Parkinson's is generally not hereditary, both he and his mother possess a mutation of the LRRK2 gene (G2019S) that puts the likelihood of him developing Parkinson's in later years between 20% and 80%. When asked whether ignorance was not bliss in such matters, he stated that his knowledge means that he can now take measures to ward off the disease. An editorial in \"The Economist\" magazine states that \"Mr Brin regards his mutation of LRRK2 as a bug in his personal code, and thus as no different from the bugs in computer code that Google’s engineers fix every day. By helping himself, he can therefore help others as well.\"\n\nBrin and Wojcicki, although divorced, still jointly run The Brin Wojcicki Foundation. They have donated extensively to The Michael J. Fox Foundation and in 2009 gave $1 million to support the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.\n\nPolitically, Brin is a Democrat, having donated money to Barack Obama's re-election campaign and to the DNC.\n\nIn 2002, Brin, along with Larry Page, was named the MIT Technology Review TR100, as one of the top 100 innovators in the world under the age of 35. In 2003, both Brin and Page received an honorary MBA from IE Business School \"for embodying the entrepreneurial spirit and lending momentum to the creation of new businesses...\". In 2004, they received the Marconi Foundation Prize, the \"Highest Award in Engineering\", and were elected Fellows of the Marconi Foundation at Columbia University. \"In announcing their selection, John Jay Iselin, the Foundation's president, congratulated the two men for their invention that has fundamentally changed the way information is retrieved today.\"\n\nIn 2003, Brin and Page were both Award Recipients and National Finalists for the EY Entrepreneur of the Year Award \n\nIn 2004, Brin received the Academy of Achievement's Golden Plate Award with Larry Page at a ceremony in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nIn November 2009, \"Forbes\" decided Brin and Page were the fifth most powerful people in the world. Earlier that same year, in February, Brin was inducted into the National Academy of Engineering, which is \"among the highest professional distinctions accorded to an engineer ... [and] honors those who have made outstanding contributions to engineering research, practice...\". He was selected specifically, \"for leadership in development of rapid indexing and retrieval of relevant information from the World Wide Web\". In their \"Profiles\" of Fellows, the National Science Foundation included a number of earlier awards:\n\nAs of October 2018, Brin is the 13th-richest person in the world according to Forbes, with an estimated net worth of US$50.5 billion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54451190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54451190", "title": "Thomas Johann Kaspar von Thun und Hohenstein", "text": "Thomas Johann Kaspar von Thun und Hohenstein\n\nThomas Johann Nepomuk Kaspar Count of Thun and Hohenstein (* 16 May 1737 in Trento, 7 October 1796 in Passau) was the 72nd bishop of Passau.\n\nThe son of a prince-bishop's court marshal and imperial secret councilor and chamberlain from the noble family of Thun und Hohenstein, became the canon of Passau in 1756 after completing his studies. In 1766 he was appointed Chairman of the Court Council and in 1771 the Domdekan. It was not until this year that he received the priestly ordination.\n\nIn 1776 he was appointed titular bishop of Thyatira, where he served as an auxiliary bishop in Passau under Prince Bishop Leopold Ernst von Firmian. On January 19, 1777, Firmian also gave him the bishop's consecration. He was the most important official under the prince-bishop in the administration of the extended diocese, and lastly led the political business.\n\nAfter his death, he was defeated by Joseph Franz Anton von Auersperg in the bishop's election in 1783, and since then he has been the leader of the conservative camp in the cathedral chapter. After Auersperg's death, he was elected as a new bishop of Passau by the cathedral chapter on 4 November 1795. In his brief period of government, he promoted the expansion of the Hacklberg brewery and the woodcut on the Ilz as well as the Passau porcelain manufactory. After only 11 months and 4 days of government, he died from the consequences of a fall from the horse he had suffered on a hike to Hacklberg.\n"}
{"id": "904637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904637", "title": "William Henry Clarence", "text": "William Henry Clarence\n\nWilliam Henry Clarence (1856–1879) was King, or Hereditary Chief, of the Miskito. He was educated privately at Kingston, Jamaica. He succeeded on the death of his uncle George Augustus Frederic II, 27 November 1865 and was crowned, 23 May 1866. He reigned under a Council of Regency until he came of age and assumed full ruling powers in 1874. He was poisoned on 5 May 1879.\n"}
