{"id": "21160354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21160354", "title": "Adam Steuart", "text": "Adam Steuart\n\nAdam Steuart (Stuart, Stewart) (1591–1654) was a Scottish philosopher and controversialist.\n\nHe became professor at the Academy of Saumur in 1617. \nHe was in London in the year 1644. where he engaged in propaganda for the Presbyterians against the Independents. The first attack on the \"Apologeticall Narration\" of the Five Dissenting Brethren was Steuart's. The \"Second Part of the Duply to M. S. alias Two Brethren\" addressed the issue of religious tolerance, which he classed with depravity. It was answered by John Goodwin. Steuart is mentioned (as A. S.) in John Milton's poem \"On the New Forcers of Conscience under the Long Parliament\", a caudate sonnet, along with Samuel Rutherford and Thomas Edwards (and, implicitly, Robert Baillie).\n\nIn 1644 he took up a position as Professor of Physics at the University of Leiden . With Jacobus Triglandius and Jacobus Revius he attacked Cartesianism there. In what is now known as the Leiden Crisis, coming to a head in 1647, he opposed Adriaan Heereboord, over whom he had been brought in, and presided at a rowdy debate with the Leiden Cartesian Johannes de Raey. René Descartes himself commented on Steuart, in \"Notae in Programma Quoddam\" (1648), to which Steuart replied in \"Notae in notas nobilissimi cujusdam viri in ipsius theses de Deo\" (1648). Steuart's party, the proponents of continuing to teach along the lines of Aristotelian philosophy, won a temporary victory.\n\nHe was attacked by the theologian Samuel Maresius, during further controversy, as heterodox. He died in Leiden. .\n"}
{"id": "34336834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34336834", "title": "Adriaan Heereboord", "text": "Adriaan Heereboord\n\nAdriaan Heereboord (13 October 1613 in Leiden – 7 July 1661 in Leiden) was a Dutch philosopher and logician.\n\nHe was born in Leiden and graduated from the University of Leiden, where he had the chair of philosophy from 1643.\n\nHeereboord sympathised with the new thinking of René Descartes, but was also influenced by Petrus Ramus and Francis Bacon. He clashed almost immediately at Leiden with Jacobus Revius and Adam Steuart, standing respectively for traditional metaphysics and theology. A combative drinker, Heereboord became an embattled figure in the university, with his private life the subject of pamphlets, and in the end dropped out of his duties.\n\nHis works included:\n\n\nHe also edited and published the logic of his teacher and predecessor at Leiden, Franco Burgersdijk, as \"Hermeneia Logica, seu explicatio synopseos logicae Burgersdicianae\" (1659) and \"Praxis logica\" (1659).\n\n"}
{"id": "30758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30758", "title": "Age of Enlightenment", "text": "Age of Enlightenment\n\nThe Enlightenment (also known as the Age of Enlightenment or the Age of Reason) was an intellectual and philosophical movement that dominated the world of ideas in Europe during the 18th century, the \"Century of Philosophy\".\n\nFrench historians traditionally place the Enlightenment between 1715 (the year that Louis XIV died) and 1789 (the beginning of the French Revolution). International historians begin the period in the 1620s, with the start of the scientific revolution. \"\" () of the period widely circulated their ideas through meetings at scientific academies, Masonic lodges, literary salons, coffee houses and in printed books and pamphlets. The ideas of the Enlightenment undermined the authority of the monarchy and the Church and paved the way for the political revolutions of the 18th and 19th centuries. A variety of 19th-century movements, including liberalism and neo-classicism, trace their intellectual heritage to the Enlightenment.\n\nThe Enlightenment included a range of ideas centered on reason as the primary source of authority and legitimacy and came to advance ideals like liberty, progress, tolerance, fraternity, constitutional government and separation of church and state. In France, the central doctrines of the Enlightenment philosophers were individual liberty and religious tolerance, in opposition to an absolute monarchy and the fixed dogmas of the Roman Catholic Church. The Enlightenment was marked by an emphasis on the scientific method and reductionism, along with increased questioning of religious orthodoxy—an attitude captured by the phrase \"Sapere aude\", \"Dare to know\".\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment was preceded by and closely associated with the scientific revolution. Earlier philosophers whose work influenced the Enlightenment included Bacon, Descartes, Locke, and Spinoza. The major figures of the Enlightenment included Beccaria, Diderot, Hume, Kant, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Adam Smith, and Voltaire. Some European rulers, including Catherine II of Russia, Joseph II of Austria and Frederick II of Prussia, tried to apply Enlightenment thought on religious and political tolerance, which became known as enlightened absolutism. Benjamin Franklin visited Europe repeatedly and contributed actively to the scientific and political debates there and brought the newest ideas back to Philadelphia. Thomas Jefferson closely followed European ideas and later incorporated some of the ideals of the Enlightenment into the Declaration of Independence (1776). One of his peers, James Madison, incorporated these ideals into the United States Constitution during its framing in 1787.\n\nThe most influential publication of the Enlightenment was the \"\" (\"Encyclopaedia\"). Published between 1751 and 1772 in thirty-five volumes, it was compiled by Diderot, d'Alembert (until 1759) and a team of 150 scientists and philosophers. It helped spread the ideas of the Enlightenment across Europe and beyond. Other landmark publications were Voltaire's \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" (\"Philosophical Dictionary\"; 1764) and \"Letters on the English\" (1733); Rousseau's \"Discourse on Inequality\" (1754) and \"The Social Contract\" (1762); Adam Smith's \"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\" (1759) and \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776); and Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\" (1748). The ideas of the Enlightenment played a major role in inspiring the French Revolution, which began in 1789. After the Revolution, the Enlightenment was followed by the intellectual movement known as Romanticism.\n\nRené Descartes' rationalist philosophy laid the foundation for enlightenment thinking. His attempt to construct the sciences on a secure metaphysical foundation was not as successful as his method of doubt applied in philosophic areas leading to a dualistic doctrine of mind and matter. His skepticism was refined by John Locke's Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1690) and David Hume's writings in the 1740s. His dualism was challenged by Spinoza's uncompromising assertion of the unity of matter in his Tractatus (1670) and Ethics (1677).\n\nThese laid down two distinct lines of Enlightenment thought: first, the moderate variety, following Descartes, Locke and Christian Wolff, which sought accommodation between reform and the traditional systems of power and faith, and second, the radical enlightenment, inspired by the philosophy of Spinoza, advocating democracy, individual liberty, freedom of expression and eradication of religious authority. The moderate variety tended to be deistic, whereas the radical tendency separated the basis of morality entirely from theology. Both lines of thought were eventually opposed by a conservative Counter-Enlightenment, which sought a return to faith.\n\nIn the mid-18th century, Paris became the center of an explosion of philosophic and scientific activity challenging traditional doctrines and dogmas. The philosophic movement was led by Voltaire and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who argued for a society based upon reason rather than faith and Catholic doctrine, for a new civil order based on natural law, and for science based on experiments and observation. The political philosopher Montesquieu introduced the idea of a separation of powers in a government, a concept which was enthusiastically adopted by the authors of the United States Constitution. While the \"Philosophes\" of the French Enlightenment were not revolutionaries and many were members of the nobility, their ideas played an important part in undermining the legitimacy of the Old Regime and shaping the French Revolution.\n\nFrancis Hutcheson, a moral philosopher, described the utilitarian and consequentialist principle that virtue is that which provides, in his words, \"the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers\". Much of what is incorporated in the scientific method (the nature of knowledge, evidence, experience and causation) and some modern attitudes towards the relationship between science and religion were developed by his protégés David Hume and Adam Smith. Hume became a major figure in the skeptical philosophical and empiricist traditions of philosophy.\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) tried to reconcile rationalism and religious belief, individual freedom and political authority, as well as map out a view of the public sphere through private and public reason. Kant's work continued to shape German thought and indeed all of European philosophy, well into the 20th century. Mary Wollstonecraft was one of England's earliest feminist philosophers. She argued for a society based on reason and that women as well as men should be treated as rational beings. She is best known for her work \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1791).\n\nScience played an important role in Enlightenment discourse and thought. Many Enlightenment writers and thinkers had backgrounds in the sciences and associated scientific advancement with the overthrow of religion and traditional authority in favour of the development of free speech and thought. Scientific progress during the Enlightenment included the discovery of carbon dioxide (fixed air) by the chemist Joseph Black, the argument for deep time by the geologist James Hutton and the invention of the steam engine by James Watt. The experiments of Lavoisier were used to create the first modern chemical plants in Paris and the experiments of the Montgolfier Brothers enabled them to launch the first manned flight in a hot-air balloon on 21 November 1783 from the Château de la Muette, near the Bois de Boulogne.\n\nBroadly speaking, Enlightenment science greatly valued empiricism and rational thought and was embedded with the Enlightenment ideal of advancement and progress. The study of science, under the heading of natural philosophy, was divided into physics and a conglomerate grouping of chemistry and natural history, which included anatomy, biology, geology, mineralogy and zoology. As with most Enlightenment views, the benefits of science were not seen universally: Rousseau criticized the sciences for distancing man from nature and not operating to make people happier. Science during the Enlightenment was dominated by scientific societies and academies, which had largely replaced universities as centres of scientific research and development. Societies and academies were also the backbone of the maturation of the scientific profession. Another important development was the popularization of science among an increasingly literate population. Philosophes introduced the public to many scientific theories, most notably through the \"Encyclopédie\" and the popularization of Newtonianism by Voltaire and Émilie du Châtelet. Some historians have marked the 18th century as a drab period in the history of science. However, the century saw significant advancements in the practice of medicine, mathematics and physics; the development of biological taxonomy; a new understanding of magnetism and electricity; and the maturation of chemistry as a discipline, which established the foundations of modern chemistry.\n\nScientific academies and societies grew out of the Scientific Revolution as the creators of scientific knowledge in contrast to the scholasticism of the university. During the Enlightenment, some societies created or retained links to universities, but contemporary sources distinguished universities from scientific societies by claiming that the university's utility was in the transmission of knowledge while societies functioned to create knowledge. As the role of universities in institutionalized science began to diminish, learned societies became the cornerstone of organized science. Official scientific societies were chartered by the state in order to provide technical expertise. Most societies were granted permission to oversee their own publications, control the election of new members and the administration of the society. After 1700, a tremendous number of official academies and societies were founded in Europe and by 1789 there were over seventy official scientific societies. In reference to this growth, Bernard de Fontenelle coined the term \"the Age of Academies\" to describe the 18th century.\n\nThe influence of science also began appearing more commonly in poetry and literature during the Enlightenment. Some poetry became infused with scientific metaphor and imagery, while other poems were written directly about scientific topics. Sir Richard Blackmore committed the Newtonian system to verse in \"Creation, a Philosophical Poem in Seven Books\" (1712). After Newton's death in 1727, poems were composed in his honour for decades. James Thomson (1700–1748) penned his \"Poem to the Memory of Newton\", which mourned the loss of Newton, but also praised his science and legacy.\n\nHume and other Scottish Enlightenment thinkers developed a \"science of man\", which was expressed historically in works by authors including James Burnett, Adam Ferguson, John Millar and William Robertson, all of whom merged a scientific study of how humans behaved in ancient and primitive cultures with a strong awareness of the determining forces of modernity. Modern sociology largely originated from this movement and Hume's philosophical concepts that directly influenced James Madison (and thus the U.S. Constitution) and as popularised by Dugald Stewart, would be the basis of classical liberalism.\n\nIn 1776, Adam Smith published \"The Wealth of Nations\", often considered the first work on modern economics as it had an immediate impact on British economic policy that continues into the 21st century. It was immediately preceded and influenced by Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot, Baron de Laune drafts of \"Reflections on the Formation and Distribution of Wealth\" (Paris, 1766). Smith acknowledged indebtedness and possibly was the original English translator.\n\nCesare Beccaria, a jurist, criminologist, philosopher and politician and one of the great Enlightenment writers, became famous for his masterpiece \"Of Crimes and Punishments\" (1764), later translated into 22 languages, which condemned torture and the death penalty and was a founding work in the field of penology and the Classical School of criminology by promoting criminal justice. Another prominent intellectual was Francesco Mario Pagano, who wrote important studies such as \"Saggi Politici\" (Political Essays, 1783), one of the major works of the Enlightenment in Naples; and \"Considerazioni sul processo criminale\" (Considerations on the criminal trial, 1787), which established him as an international authority on criminal law.\n\nThe Enlightenment has long been hailed as the foundation of modern Western political and intellectual culture. The Enlightenment brought political modernization to the West, in terms of introducing democratic values and institutions and the creation of modern, liberal democracies. This thesis has been widely accepted by Anglophone scholars and has been reinforced by the large-scale studies by Robert Darnton, Roy Porter and most recently by Jonathan Israel.\n\nJohn Locke, one of the most influential Enlightenment thinkers, based his governance philosophy in social contract theory, a subject that permeated Enlightenment political thought. The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes ushered in this new debate with his work \"Leviathan\" in 1651. Hobbes also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought: the right of the individual; the natural equality of all men; the artificial character of the political order (which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state); the view that all legitimate political power must be \"representative\" and based on the consent of the people; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.\n\nBoth Locke and Rousseau developed social contract theories in \"Two Treatises of Government\" and \"Discourse on Inequality\", respectively. While quite different works, Locke, Hobbes and Rousseau agreed that a social contract, in which the government's authority lies in the consent of the governed, is necessary for man to live in civil society. Locke defines the state of nature as a condition in which humans are rational and follow natural law, in which all men are born equal and with the right to life, liberty and property. However, when one citizen breaks the Law of Nature both the transgressor and the victim enter into a state of war, from which it is virtually impossible to break free. Therefore, Locke said that individuals enter into civil society to protect their natural rights via an \"unbiased judge\" or common authority, such as courts, to appeal to. Contrastingly, Rousseau's conception relies on the supposition that \"civil man\" is corrupted, while \"natural man\" has no want he cannot fulfill himself. Natural man is only taken out of the state of nature when the inequality associated with private property is established. Rousseau said that people join into civil society via the social contract to achieve unity while preserving individual freedom. This is embodied in the sovereignty of the general will, the moral and collective legislative body constituted by citizens.\n\nLocke is known for his statement that individuals have a right to \"Life, Liberty and Property\" and his belief that the natural right to property is derived from labor. Tutored by Locke, Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury wrote in 1706: \"There is a mighty Light which spreads its self over the world especially in those two free Nations of England and Holland; on whom the Affairs of Europe now turn\". Locke's theory of natural rights has influenced many political documents, including the United States Declaration of Independence and the French National Constituent Assembly's Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen.\n\nThe \"philosophes\" argued that the establishment of a contractual basis of rights would lead to the market mechanism and capitalism, the scientific method, religious tolerance and the organization of states into self-governing republics through democratic means. In this view, the tendency of the \"philosophes\" in particular to apply rationality to every problem is considered the essential change.\n\nAlthough much of Enlightenment political thought was dominated by social contract theorists, both David Hume and Adam Ferguson criticized this camp. Hume's essay \"Of the Original Contract\" argues that governments derived from consent are rarely seen and civil government is grounded in a ruler's habitual authority and force. It is precisely because of the ruler's authority over-and-against the subject, that the subject tacitly consents and Hume says that the subjects would \"never imagine that their consent made him sovereign\", rather the authority did so. Similarly, Ferguson did not believe citizens built the state, rather polities grew out of social development. In his 1767 \"An Essay on the History of Civil Society\", Ferguson uses the four stages of progress, a theory that was very popular in Scotland at the time, to explain how humans advance from a hunting and gathering society to a commercial and civil society without \"signing\" a social contract.\n\nBoth Rousseau and Locke's social contract theories rest on the presupposition of natural rights, which are not a result of law or custom, but are things that all men have in pre-political societies and are therefore universal and inalienable. The most famous natural right formulation comes from John Locke in his \"Second Treatise\", when he introduces the state of nature. For Locke, the law of nature is grounded on mutual security or the idea that one cannot infringe on another's natural rights, as every man is equal and has the same inalienable rights. These natural rights include perfect equality and freedom, as well as the right to preserve life and property. Locke also argued against slavery on the basis that enslaving yourself goes against the law of nature because you cannot surrender your own rights, your freedom is absolute and no one can take it from you. Additionally, Locke argues that one person cannot enslave another because it is morally reprehensible, although he introduces a caveat by saying that enslavement of a lawful captive in time of war would not go against one's natural rights.\n\nAs a spillover of the Enlightenment, nonsecular beliefs expressed first by Quakers and then by Protestant evangelicals in Britain and the United States emerged. To these groups, slavery became \"repugnant to our religion\" and a \"crime in the sight of God.\" These ideas added to those expressed by Enlightenment thinkers, leading many in Britain to believe that slavery was \"not only morally wrong and economically inefficient, but also politically unwise.\" As these notions gained more adherents, Britain was forced to end its participation in the slave trade.\n\nThe leaders of the Enlightenment were not especially democratic, as they more often look to absolute monarchs as the key to imposing reforms designed by the intellectuals. Voltaire despised democracy and said the absolute monarch must be enlightened and must act as dictated by reason and justice – in other words, be a \"philosopher-king\".\n\nIn several nations, rulers welcomed leaders of the Enlightenment at court and asked them to help design laws and programs to reform the system, typically to build stronger states. These rulers are called \"enlightened despots\" by historians. They included Frederick the Great of Prussia, Catherine the Great of Russia, Leopold II of Tuscany and Joseph II of Austria. Joseph was over-enthusiastic, announcing many reforms that had little support so that revolts broke out and his regime became a comedy of errors and nearly all his programs were reversed. Senior ministers Pombal in Portugal and Johann Friedrich Struensee in Denmark also governed according to Enlightenment ideals. In Poland, the model constitution of 1791 expressed Enlightenment ideals, but was in effect for only one year before the nation was partitioned among its neighbors. More enduring were the cultural achievements, which created a nationalist spirit in Poland.\n\nFrederick the Great, the king of Prussia from 1740 to 1786, saw himself as a leader of the Enlightenment and patronized philosophers and scientists at his court in Berlin. Voltaire, who had been imprisoned and maltreated by the French government, was eager to accept Frederick's invitation to live at his palace. Frederick explained: \"My principal occupation is to combat ignorance and prejudice ... to enlighten minds, cultivate morality, and to make people as happy as it suits human nature, and as the means at my disposal permit\".\n\nThe Enlightenment has been frequently linked to the French Revolution of 1789. One view of the political changes that occurred during the Enlightenment is that the \"consent of the governed\" philosophy as delineated by Locke in \"Two Treatises of Government\" (1689) represented a paradigm shift from the old governance paradigm under feudalism known as the \"divine right of kings\". In this view, the revolutions of the late 1700s and early 1800s were caused by the fact that this governance paradigm shift often could not be resolved peacefully and therefore violent revolution was the result. Clearly a governance philosophy where the king was never wrong was in direct conflict with one whereby citizens by natural law had to consent to the acts and rulings of their government.\n\nAlexis de Tocqueville proposed the French Revolution as the inevitable result of the radical opposition created in the 18th century between the monarchy and the men of letters of the Enlightenment. These men of letters constituted a sort of \"substitute aristocracy that was both all-powerful and without real power\". This illusory power came from the rise of \"public opinion\", born when absolutist centralization removed the nobility and the bourgeoisie from the political sphere. The \"literary politics\" that resulted promoted a discourse of equality and was hence in fundamental opposition to the monarchical regime. De Tocqueville \"clearly designates  ... the cultural effects of transformation in the forms of the exercise of power\".\n\nEnlightenment era religious commentary was a response to the preceding century of religious conflict in Europe, especially the Thirty Years' War. Theologians of the Enlightenment wanted to reform their faith to its generally non-confrontational roots and to limit the capacity for religious controversy to spill over into politics and warfare while still maintaining a true faith in God. For moderate Christians, this meant a return to simple Scripture. John Locke abandoned the corpus of theological commentary in favor of an \"unprejudiced examination\" of the Word of God alone. He determined the essence of Christianity to be a belief in Christ the redeemer and recommended avoiding more detailed debate. In the \"Jefferson Bible\", Thomas Jefferson went further and dropped any passages dealing with miracles, visitations of angels and the resurrection of Jesus after his death, as he tried to extract the practical Christian moral code of the New Testament.\n\nEnlightenment scholars sought to curtail the political power of organized religion and thereby prevent another age of intolerant religious war. Spinoza determined to remove politics from contemporary and historical theology (e.g., disregarding Judaic law). Moses Mendelssohn advised affording no political weight to any organized religion, but instead recommended that each person follow what they found most convincing. They believed a good religion based in instinctive morals and a belief in God should not theoretically need force to maintain order in its believers, and both Mendelssohn and Spinoza judged religion on its moral fruits, not the logic of its theology.\n\nA number of novel ideas about religion developed with the Enlightenment, including deism and talk of atheism. According to Thomas Paine, deism is the simple belief in God the Creator, with no reference to the Bible or any other miraculous source. Instead, the deist relies solely on personal reason to guide his creed, which was eminently agreeable to many thinkers of the time. Atheism was much discussed, but there were few proponents. Wilson and Reill note: \"In fact, very few enlightened intellectuals, even when they were vocal critics of Christianity, were true atheists. Rather, they were critics of orthodox belief, wedded rather to skepticism, deism, vitalism, or perhaps pantheism\". Some followed Pierre Bayle and argued that atheists could indeed be moral men. Many others like Voltaire held that without belief in a God who punishes evil, the moral order of society was undermined. That is, since atheists gave themselves to no Supreme Authority and no law and had no fear of eternal consequences, they were far more likely to disrupt society. Bayle (1647–1706) observed that, in his day, \"prudent persons will always maintain an appearance of [religion],\" and he believed that even atheists could hold concepts of honor and go beyond their own self-interest to create and interact in society. Locke said that if there were no God and no divine law, the result would be moral anarchy: every individual \"could have no law but his own will, no end but himself. He would be a god to himself, and the satisfaction of his own will the sole measure and end of all his actions.\"\n\nThe \"Radical Enlightenment\" promoted the concept of separating church and state, an idea that is often credited to English philosopher John Locke (1632–1704). According to his principle of the social contract, Locke said that the government lacked authority in the realm of individual conscience, as this was something rational people could not cede to the government for it or others to control. For Locke, this created a natural right in the liberty of conscience, which he said must therefore remain protected from any government authority.\n\nThese views on religious tolerance and the importance of individual conscience, along with the social contract, became particularly influential in the American colonies and the drafting of the United States Constitution. Thomas Jefferson called for a \"wall of separation between church and state\" at the federal level. He previously had supported successful efforts to disestablish the Church of England in Virginia and authored the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. Jefferson's political ideals were greatly influenced by the writings of John Locke, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton, whom he considered the three greatest men that ever lived.\n\nThe Enlightenment took hold in most European countries, often with a specific local emphasis. For example, in France it became associated with anti-government and anti-Church radicalism, while in Germany it reached deep into the middle classes, where it expressed a spiritualistic and nationalistic tone without threatening governments or established churches. Government responses varied widely. In France, the government was hostile, and the \"philosophes\" fought against its censorship, sometimes being imprisoned or hounded into exile. The British government, for the most part, ignored the Enlightenment's leaders in England and Scotland, although it did give Isaac Newton a knighthood and a very lucrative government office.\n\nThe very existence of an English Enlightenment has been hotly debated by scholars. The majority of textbooks on British history make little or no mention of an English Enlightenment. Some surveys of the entire Enlightenment include England and others ignore it, although they do include coverage of such major intellectuals as Joseph Addison, Edward Gibbon, John Locke, Isaac Newton, Alexander Pope, Joshua Reynolds and Jonathan Swift. Roy Porter argues that the reasons for this neglect were the assumptions that the movement was primarily French-inspired, that it was largely a-religious or anti-clerical, and that it stood in outspoken defiance to the established order. Porter admits that, after the 1720s, England could claim thinkers to equal Diderot, Voltaire or Rousseau. However, its leading intellectuals such as Edward Gibbon, Edmund Burke and Samuel Johnson were all quite conservative and supportive of the standing order. Porter says the reason was that Enlightenment had come early to England and had succeeded so that the culture had accepted political liberalism, philosophical empiricism, and religious toleration of the sort that intellectuals on the continent had to fight for against powerful odds. Furthermore, England rejected the collectivism of the continent and emphasized the improvement of individuals as the main goal of enlightenment.\n\nIn the Scottish Enlightenment, Scotland's major cities created an intellectual infrastructure of mutually supporting institutions such as universities, reading societies, libraries, periodicals, museums and masonic lodges. The Scottish network was \"predominantly liberal Calvinist, Newtonian, and 'design' oriented in character which played a major role in the further development of the transatlantic Enlightenment\". In France, Voltaire said that \"we look to Scotland for all our ideas of civilization\". The focus of the Scottish Enlightenment ranged from intellectual and economic matters to the specifically scientific as in the work of William Cullen, physician and chemist; James Anderson, an agronomist; Joseph Black, physicist and chemist; and James Hutton, the first modern geologist.\n\nSeveral Americans, especially Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, played a major role in bringing Enlightenment ideas to the New World and in influencing British and French thinkers. Franklin was influential for his political activism and for his advances in physics. The cultural exchange during the Age of Enlightenment ran in both directions across the Atlantic. Thinkers such as Paine, Locke and Rousseau all take Native American cultural practices as examples of natural freedom. The Americans closely followed English and Scottish political ideas, as well as some French thinkers such as Montesquieu. As deists, they were influenced by ideas of John Toland (1670–1722) and Matthew Tindal (1656–1733). During the Enlightenment there was a great emphasis upon liberty, republicanism and religious tolerance. There was no respect for monarchy or inherited political power. Deists reconciled science and religion by rejecting prophecies, miracles and Biblical theology. Leading deists included Thomas Paine in \"The Age of Reason\" and by Thomas Jefferson in his short \"Jefferson Bible\" – from which all supernatural aspects were removed.\n\nPrussia took the lead among the German states in sponsoring the political reforms that Enlightenment thinkers urged absolute rulers to adopt. There were important movements as well in the smaller states of Bavaria, Saxony, Hanover and the Palatinate. In each case, Enlightenment values became accepted and led to significant political and administrative reforms that laid the groundwork for the creation of modern states. The princes of Saxony, for example, carried out an impressive series of fundamental fiscal, administrative, judicial, educational, cultural and general economic reforms. The reforms were aided by the country's strong urban structure and influential commercial groups and modernized pre-1789 Saxony along the lines of classic Enlightenment principles.\nBefore 1750, the German upper classes looked to France for intellectual, cultural and architectural leadership, as French was the language of high society. By the mid-18th century, the \"Aufklärung\" (The Enlightenment) had transformed German high culture in music, philosophy, science and literature. Christian Wolff (1679–1754) was the pioneer as a writer who expounded the Enlightenment to German readers and legitimized German as a philosophic language.\n\nJohann Gottfried von Herder (1744–1803) broke new ground in philosophy and poetry, as a leader of the Sturm und Drang movement of proto-Romanticism. Weimar Classicism (\"Weimarer Klassik\") was a cultural and literary movement based in Weimar that sought to establish a new humanism by synthesizing Romantic, classical and Enlightenment ideas. The movement (from 1772 until 1805) involved Herder as well as polymath Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749–1832) and Friedrich Schiller (1759–1805), a poet and historian. Herder argued that every folk had its own particular identity, which was expressed in its language and culture. This legitimized the promotion of German language and culture and helped shape the development of German nationalism. Schiller's plays expressed the restless spirit of his generation, depicting the hero's struggle against social pressures and the force of destiny.\n\nGerman music, sponsored by the upper classes, came of age under composers Johann Sebastian Bach (1685–1750), Joseph Haydn (1732–1809) and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756–1791).\n\nIn remote Königsberg, philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) tried to reconcile rationalism and religious belief, individual freedom and political authority. Kant's work contained basic tensions that would continue to shape German thought – and indeed all of European philosophy – well into the 20th century.\n\nThe German Enlightenment won the support of princes, aristocrats and the middle classes and it permanently reshaped the culture. However, there was a conservatism among the elites that warned against going too far.\n\nIn the 1780s, Lutheran ministers Johann Heinrich Schulz and Karl Wilhelm Brumbey got in trouble with their preaching as they were attacked and ridiculed by Immanuel Kant, Wilhelm Abraham Teller and others. In 1788, Prussia issued an \"Edict on Religion\" that forbade preaching any sermon that undermined popular belief in the Holy Trinity and the Bible. The goal was to avoid skepticism, deism and theological disputes that might impinge on domestic tranquility. Men who doubted the value of Enlightenment favoured the measure, but so too did many supporters. German universities had created a closed elite that could debate controversial issues among themselves, but spreading them to the public was seen as too risky. This intellectual elite was favoured by the state, but that might be reversed if the process of the Enlightenment proved politically or socially destabilizing.\n\nThe Enlightenment played a distinctive, if small, role in the history of Italy. Although most of Italy was controlled by conservative Habsburgs or the pope, Tuscany had some opportunities for reform. Leopold II of Tuscany abolished the death penalty in Tuscany and reduced censorship. From Naples, Antonio Genovesi (1713–69) influenced a generation of southern Italian intellectuals and university students. His textbook \"Diceosina, o Sia della Filosofia del Giusto e dell'Onesto\" (1766) was a controversial attempt to mediate between the history of moral philosophy on the one hand and the specific problems encountered by 18th-century commercial society on the other. It contained the greater part of Genovesi's political, philosophical and economic thought – guidebook for Neapolitan economic and social development. Science flourished as Alessandro Volta and Luigi Galvani made break-through discoveries in electricity. Pietro Verri was a leading economist in Lombardy. Historian Joseph Schumpeter states he was \"the most important pre-Smithian authority on Cheapness-and-Plenty\". The most influential scholar on the Italian Enlightenment has been Franco Venturi.\n\nIn Russia, the government began to actively encourage the proliferation of arts and sciences in the mid-18th century. This era produced the first Russian university, library, theatre, public museum and independent press. Like other enlightened despots, Catherine the Great played a key role in fostering the arts, sciences and education. She used her own interpretation of Enlightenment ideals, assisted by notable international experts such as Voltaire (by correspondence) and in residence world class scientists such as Leonhard Euler and Peter Simon Pallas. The national Enlightenment differed from its Western European counterpart in that it promoted further modernization of all aspects of Russian life and was concerned with attacking the institution of serfdom in Russia. The Russian enlightenment centered on the individual instead of societal enlightenment and encouraged the living of an enlightened life. A powerful element was \"prosveshchenie\" which combined religious piety, erudition and commitment to the spread of learning. However, it lacked the skeptical and critical spirit of the European Enlightenment.\n\nEnlightenment ideas (\"oświecenie\") emerged late in Poland, as the Polish middle class was weaker and szlachta (nobility) culture (Sarmatism) together with the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth political system (Golden Liberty) were in deep crisis. The political system was built on republicanism, but was unable to defend itself against powerful neighbors Russia, Prussia and Austria as they repeatedly sliced off regions until nothing was left of independent Poland. The period of Polish Enlightenment began in the 1730s–1740s and especially in theatre and the arts peaked in the reign of King Stanisław August Poniatowski (second half of the 18th century). Warsaw was a main centre after 1750, with an expansion of schools and educational institutions and the arts patronage held at the Royal Castle. Leaders promoted tolerance and more education. They included King Stanislaw II Poniatowski and reformers Piotr Switkowski, Antoni Poplawski, Josef Niemcewicz and Jósef Pawlinkowski, as well as Baudouin de Cortenay, a Polonized dramatist. Opponents included Florian Jaroszewicz, Gracjan Piotrowski, Karol Wyrwicz and Wojciech Skarszewski.\n\nThe movement went into decline with the Third Partition of Poland (1795) – a national tragedy inspiring a short period of sentimental writing – and ended in 1822, replaced by Romanticism.\n\nThe Enlightenment has always been contested territory. According to Keith Thomas, its supporters \"hail it as the source of everything that is progressive about the modern world. For them, it stands for freedom of thought, rational inquiry, critical thinking, religious tolerance, political liberty, scientific achievement, the pursuit of happiness, and hope for the future.\" Thomas adds that its detractors accuse it of shallow rationalism, naïve optimism, unrealistic universalism and moral darkness. From the start, conservative and clerical defenders of traditional religion attacked materialism and skepticism as evil forces that encouraged immorality. By 1794, they pointed to the Terror during the French Revolution as confirmation of their predictions. As the Enlightenment was ending, Romantic philosophers argued that excessive dependence on reason was a mistake perpetuated by the Enlightenment because it disregarded the bonds of history, myth, faith, and tradition that were necessary to hold society together.\n\nThe term \"Enlightenment\" emerged in English in the later part of the 19th century, with particular reference to French philosophy, as the equivalent of the French term \"Lumières\" (used first by Dubos in 1733 and already well established by 1751). From Immanuel Kant's 1784 essay \"Beantwortung der Frage: Was ist Aufklärung?\" (\"\"), the German term became \"Aufklärun\"g (\"aufklären\" = to illuminate; \"sich aufklären\" = to clear up). However, scholars have never agreed on a definition of the Enlightenment, or on its chronological or geographical extent. Terms like \"les Lumières\" (French), \"illuminism\"o (Italian), \"ilustración\" (Spanish) and \"Aufklärung\" (German) referred to partly overlapping movements. Not until the late nineteenth century did English scholars agree they were talking about \"the Enlightenment\".\n\nEnlightenment historiography began in the period itself, from what Enlightenment figures said about their work. A dominant element was the intellectual angle they took. D'Alembert's \"Preliminary Discourse of l'Encyclopédie\" provides a history of the Enlightenment which comprises a chronological list of developments in the realm of knowledge – of which the \"Encyclopédie\" forms the pinnacle. In 1783, Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn referred to Enlightenment as a process by which man was educated in the use of reason. Immanuel Kant called Enlightenment \"man's release from his self-incurred tutelage\", tutelage being \"man's inability to make use of his understanding without direction from another\". \"For Kant, Enlightenment was mankind's final coming of age, the emancipation of the human consciousness from an immature state of ignorance\". The German scholar Ernst Cassirer called the Enlightenment \"a part and a special phase of that whole intellectual development through which modern philosophic thought gained its characteristic self-confidence and self-consciousness\". According to historian Roy Porter, the liberation of the human mind from a dogmatic state of ignorance is the epitome of what the Age of Enlightenment was trying to capture.\n\nBertrand Russell saw the Enlightenment as a phase in a progressive development which began in antiquity and that reason and challenges to the established order were constant ideals throughout that time. Russell said that the Enlightenment was ultimately born out of the Protestant reaction against the Catholic counter-reformation and that philosophical views such as affinity for democracy against monarchy originated among 16th-century Protestants to justify their desire to break away from the Catholic Church. Although many of these philosophical ideals were picked up by Catholics, Russell argues that by the 18th century the Enlightenment was the principal manifestation of the schism that began with Martin Luther.\n\nJonathan Israel rejects the attempts of postmodern and Marxian historians to understand the revolutionary ideas of the period purely as by-products of social and economic transformations. He instead focuses on the history of ideas in the period from 1650 to the end of the 18th century and claims that it was the ideas themselves that caused the change that eventually led to the revolutions of the latter half of the 18th century and the early 19th century. Israel argues that until the 1650s Western civilization \"was based on a largely shared core of faith, tradition and authority\".\n\nThere is little consensus on the precise beginning of the Age of Enlightenment, though the beginning of the 18th century (1701) or the middle of the 17th century (1650) are often used as epochs. French historians usually place the period, called the \"Siècle des Lumières\" (\"Century of Enlightenments\"), between 1715 and 1789, from the beginning of the reign of Louis XV until the French Revolution. If taken back to the mid-17th century, the Enlightenment would trace its origins to Descartes' \"Discourse on the Method\", published in 1637. In France, many cited the publication of Isaac Newton's \"Principia Mathematica\" in 1687. It is argued by several historians and philosophers that the beginning of the Enlightenment is when Descartes shifted the epistemological basis from external authority to internal certainty by his \"cogito ergo sum\" published in 1637. As to its end, most scholars use the last years of the century, often choosing the French Revolution of 1789 or the beginning of the Napoleonic Wars (1804–1815) as a convenient point in time with which to date the end of the Enlightenment.\n\nIn the 1944 book \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\", Frankfurt School philosophers Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno argued: Enlightenment, understood in the widest sense as the advance of thought, has always aimed at liberating human beings from fear and installing them as masters. Yet the wholly enlightened earth radiates under the sign of disaster triumphant.\n\nExtending Horkheimer and Adorno's argument, intellectual historian Jason Josephson-Storm has argued that any idea of the Age of Enlightenment as a clearly defined period that is separate from the earlier Renaissance and later Romanticism or Counter-Enlightenment constitutes a myth. Josephson-Storm points out that there are vastly different and mutually contradictory periodizations of the Enlightenment depending on nation, field of study, and school of thought; that the term and category of \"Enlightenment\" referring to the scientific revolution was actually applied after the fact; that the Enlightenment did not see an increase in disenchantment or the dominance of the mechanistic worldview; and that a blur in the early modern ideas of the Humanities and natural sciences makes it hard to circumscribe a Scientific Revolution. Josephson-Storm defends his categorization of the Enlightenment as \"myth\" by noting the regulative role ideas of a period of Enlightenment and disenchantment play in modern Western culture, such that belief in magic, spiritualism, and even religion appears somewhat taboo in intellectual strata.\n\nIn the 1970s, study of the Enlightenment expanded to include the ways Enlightenment ideas spread to European colonies and how they interacted with indigenous cultures and how the Enlightenment took place in formerly unstudied areas such as Italy, Greece, the Balkans, Poland, Hungary and Russia.\n\nIntellectuals such as Robert Darnton and Jürgen Habermas have focused on the social conditions of the Enlightenment. Habermas described the creation of the \"bourgeois public sphere\" in 18th-century Europe, containing the new venues and modes of communication allowing for rational exchange. Habermas said that the public sphere was bourgeois, egalitarian, rational and independent from the state, making it the ideal venue for intellectuals to critically examine contemporary politics and society, away from the interference of established authority. While the public sphere is generally an integral component of the social study of the Enlightenment, other historians have questioned whether the public sphere had these characteristics.\n\nIn contrast to the intellectual historiographical approach of the Enlightenment, which examines the various currents or discourses of intellectual thought within the European context during the 17th and 18th centuries, the cultural (or social) approach examines the changes that occurred in European society and culture. This approach studies the process of changing sociabilities and cultural practices during the Enlightenment.\n\nOne of the primary elements of the culture of the Enlightenment was the rise of the public sphere, a \"realm of communication marked by new arenas of debate, more open and accessible forms of urban public space and sociability, and an explosion of print culture\", in the late 17th century and 18th century. Elements of the public sphere included that it was egalitarian, that it discussed the domain of \"common concern,\" and that argument was founded on reason. Habermas uses the term \"common concern\" to describe those areas of political/social knowledge and discussion that were previously the exclusive territory of the state and religious authorities, now open to critical examination by the public sphere. The values of this bourgeois public sphere included holding reason to be supreme, considering everything to be open to criticism (the public sphere is critical), and the opposition of secrecy of all sorts.\nThe creation of the public sphere has been associated with two long-term historical trends: the rise of the modern nation state and the rise of capitalism. The modern nation state, in its consolidation of public power, created by counterpoint a private realm of society independent of the state, which allowed for the public sphere. Capitalism also increased society's autonomy and self-awareness, as well as an increasing need for the exchange of information. As the nascent public sphere expanded, it embraced a large variety of institutions and the most commonly cited were coffee houses and cafés, salons and the literary public sphere, figuratively localized in the Republic of Letters. In France, the creation of the public sphere was helped by the aristocracy's move from the King's palace at Versailles to Paris in about 1720, since their rich spending stimulated the trade in luxuries and artistic creations, especially fine paintings.\n\nThe context for the rise of the public sphere was the economic and social change commonly associated with the Industrial Revolution: \"Economic expansion, increasing urbanization, rising population and improving communications in comparison to the stagnation of the previous century\". Rising efficiency in production techniques and communication lowered the prices of consumer goods and increased the amount and variety of goods available to consumers (including the literature essential to the public sphere). Meanwhile, the colonial experience (most European states had colonial empires in the 18th century) began to expose European society to extremely heterogeneous cultures, leading to the breaking down of \"barriers between cultural systems, religious divides, gender differences and geographical areas\".\n\nThe word \"public\" implies the highest level of inclusivity – the public sphere by definition should be open to all. However, this sphere was only public to relative degrees. Enlightenment thinkers frequently contrasted their conception of the \"public\" with that of the people: Condorcet contrasted \"opinion\" with populace, Marmontel \"the opinion of men of letters\" with \"the opinion of the multitude\" and d'Alembert the \"truly enlightened public\" with \"the blind and noisy multitude\". Additionally, most institutions of the public sphere excluded both women and the lower classes. Cross-class influences occurred through noble and lower class participation in areas such as the coffeehouses and the Masonic lodges.\n\nBecause of the focus on reason over superstition, the Enlightenment cultivated the arts. Emphasis on learning, art and music became more widespread, especially with the growing middle class. Areas of study such as literature, philosophy, science, and the fine arts increasingly explored subject matter to which the general public, in addition to the previously more segregated professionals and patrons, could relate.\nAs musicians depended more and more on public support, public concerts became increasingly popular and helped supplement performers' and composers' incomes. The concerts also helped them to reach a wider audience. Handel, for example, epitomized this with his highly public musical activities in London. He gained considerable fame there with performances of his operas and oratorios. The music of Haydn and Mozart, with their Viennese Classical styles, are usually regarded as being the most in line with the Enlightenment ideals.\n\nThe desire to explore, record and systematize knowledge had a meaningful impact on music publications. Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"Dictionnaire de musique\" (published 1767 in Geneva and 1768 in Paris) was a leading text in the late 18th century. This widely available dictionary gave short definitions of words like genius and taste and was clearly influenced by the Enlightenment movement. Another text influenced by Enlightenment values was Charles Burney's \"A General History of Music: From the Earliest Ages to the Present Period\" (1776), which was a historical survey and an attempt to rationalize elements in music systematically over time. Recently, musicologists have shown renewed interest in the ideas and consequences of the Enlightenment. For example, Rose Rosengard Subotnik's \"Deconstructive Variations\" (subtitled \"Music and Reason in Western Society\") compares Mozart's \"Die Zauberflöte\" (1791) using the Enlightenment and Romantic perspectives and concludes that the work is \"an ideal musical representation of the Enlightenment\".\n\nAs the economy and the middle class expanded, there was an increasing number of amateur musicians. One manifestation of this involved women, who became more involved with music on a social level. Women were already engaged in professional roles as singers and increased their presence in the amateur performers' scene, especially with keyboard music. Music publishers begin to print music that amateurs could understand and play. The majority of the works that were published were for keyboard, voice and keyboard and chamber ensemble. After these initial genres were popularized, from the mid-century on, amateur groups sang choral music, which then became a new trend for publishers to capitalize on. The increasing study of the fine arts, as well as access to amateur-friendly published works, led to more people becoming interested in reading and discussing music. Music magazines, reviews and critical works which suited amateurs as well as connoisseurs began to surface.\n\nThe \"philosophes\" spent a great deal of energy disseminating their ideas among educated men and women in cosmopolitan cities. They used many venues, some of them quite new.\n\nThe term \"Republic of Letters\" was coined in 1664 by Pierre Bayle in his journal \"Nouvelles de la Republique des Lettres\". Towards the end of the 18th century, the editor of \"Histoire de la République des Lettres en France\", a literary survey, described the Republic of Letters as being: In the midst of all the governments that decide the fate of men; in the bosom of so many states, the majority of them despotic ... there exists a certain realm which holds sway only over the mind ... that we honour with the name Republic, because it preserves a measure of independence, and because it is almost its essence to be free. It is the realm of talent and of thought.\n\nThe Republic of Letters was the sum of a number of Enlightenment ideals: an egalitarian realm governed by knowledge that could act across political boundaries and rival state power. It was a forum that supported \"free public examination of questions regarding religion or legislation\". Immanuel Kant considered written communication essential to his conception of the public sphere; once everyone was a part of the \"reading public\", then society could be said to be enlightened. The people who participated in the Republic of Letters, such as Diderot and Voltaire, are frequently known today as important Enlightenment figures. Indeed, the men who wrote Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\" arguably formed a microcosm of the larger \"republic\".\n\nMany women played an essential part in the French Enlightenment, due to the role they played as \"salonnières\" in Parisian salons, as the contrast to the male \"philosophes\". The salon was the principal social institution of the republic and \"became the civil working spaces of the project of Enlightenment\". Women, as salonnières, were \"the legitimate governors of [the] potentially unruly discourse\" that took place within. While women were marginalized in the public culture of the Old Regime, the French Revolution destroyed the old cultural and economic restraints of patronage and corporatism (guilds), opening French society to female participation, particularly in the literary sphere.\nIn France, the established men of letters (\"gens de lettres\") had fused with the elites (\"les grands\") of French society by the mid-18th century. This led to the creation of an oppositional literary sphere, Grub Street, the domain of a \"multitude of versifiers and would-be authors\". These men came to London to become authors, only to discover that the literary market simply could not support large numbers of writers, who in any case were very poorly remunerated by the publishing-bookselling guilds.\n\nThe writers of Grub Street, the Grub Street Hacks, were left feeling bitter about the relative success of the men of letters and found an outlet for their literature which was typified by the \"libelle\". Written mostly in the form of pamphlets, the \"libelles\" \"slandered the court, the Church, the aristocracy, the academies, the salons, everything elevated and respectable, including the monarchy itself\". \"Le Gazetier cuirassé\" by Charles Théveneau de Morande was a prototype of the genre. It was Grub Street literature that was most read by the public during the Enlightenment. According to Darnton, more importantly the Grub Street hacks inherited the \"revolutionary spirit\" once displayed by the \"philosophes\" and paved the way for the French Revolution by desacralizing figures of political, moral and religious authority in France.\n\nThe increased consumption of reading materials of all sorts was one of the key features of the \"social\" Enlightenment. Developments in the Industrial Revolution allowed consumer goods to be produced in greater quantities at lower prices, encouraging the spread of books, pamphlets, newspapers and journals – \"media of the transmission of ideas and attitudes\". Commercial development likewise increased the demand for information, along with rising populations and increased urbanisation. However, demand for reading material extended outside of the realm of the commercial and outside the realm of the upper and middle classes, as evidenced by the Bibliothèque Bleue. Literacy rates are difficult to gauge, but in France the rates doubled over the course of the 18th century. Reflecting the decreasing influence of religion, the number of books about science and art published in Paris doubled from 1720 to 1780, while the number of books about religion dropped to just one-tenth of the total.\n\nReading underwent serious changes in the 18th century. In particular, Rolf Engelsing has argued for the existence of a \"Reading Revolution\". Until 1750, reading was done intensively: people tended to own a small number of books and read them repeatedly, often to small audience. After 1750, people began to read \"extensively\", finding as many books as they could, increasingly reading them alone. This is supported by increasing literacy rates, particularly among women.\n\nThe vast majority of the reading public could not afford to own a private library and while most of the state-run \"universal libraries\" set up in the 17th and 18th centuries were open to the public, they were not the only sources of reading material. On one end of the spectrum was the \"Bibliothèque Bleue\", a collection of cheaply produced books published in Troyes, France. Intended for a largely rural and semi-literate audience these books included almanacs, retellings of medieval romances and condensed versions of popular novels, among other things. While some historians have argued against the Enlightenment's penetration into the lower classes, the \"Bibliothèque Bleue\" represents at least a desire to participate in Enlightenment sociability. Moving up the classes, a variety of institutions offered readers access to material without needing to buy anything. Libraries that lent out their material for a small price started to appear and occasionally bookstores would offer a small lending library to their patrons. Coffee houses commonly offered books, journals and sometimes even popular novels to their customers. \"The Tatler\" and \"The Spectator\", two influential periodicals sold from 1709 to 1714, were closely associated with coffee house culture in London, being both read and produced in various establishments in the city. This is an example of the triple or even quadruple function of the coffee house: reading material was often obtained, read, discussed and even produced on the premises.\nIt is extremely difficult to determine what people actually read during the Enlightenment. For example, examining the catalogs of private libraries gives an image skewed in favor of the classes wealthy enough to afford libraries and also ignores censored works unlikely to be publicly acknowledged. For this reason, a study of publishing would be much more fruitful for discerning reading habits.\n\nAcross continental Europe, but in France especially, booksellers and publishers had to negotiate censorship laws of varying strictness. For example, the \"Encyclopédie\" narrowly escaped seizure and had to be saved by Malesherbes, the man in charge of the French censor. Indeed, many publishing companies were conveniently located outside France so as to avoid overzealous French censors. They would smuggle their merchandise across the border, where it would then be transported to clandestine booksellers or small-time peddlers. The records of clandestine booksellers may give a better representation of what literate Frenchmen might have truly read, since their clandestine nature provided a less restrictive product choice. In one case, political books were the most popular category, primarily libels and pamphlets. Readers were more interested in sensationalist stories about criminals and political corruption than they were in political theory itself. The second most popular category, \"general works\" (those books \"that did not have a dominant motif and that contained something to offend almost everyone in authority\"), demonstrated a high demand for generally low-brow subversive literature. However, these works never became part of literary canon and are largely forgotten today as a result.\n\nA healthy, legal publishing industry existed throughout Europe, although established publishers and book sellers occasionally ran afoul of the law. For example, the \"Encyclopédie\" condemned not only by the King, but also by Clement XII, nevertheless found its way into print with the help of the aforementioned Malesherbes and creative use of French censorship law. However, many works were sold without running into any legal trouble at all. Borrowing records from libraries in England, Germany, and North America indicate that more than 70 percent of books borrowed were novels. Less than 1 percent of the books were of a religious nature, indicating the general trend of declining religiosity.\n\nA genre that greatly rose in importance was that of scientific literature. Natural history in particular became increasingly popular among the upper classes. Works of natural history include René-Antoine Ferchault de Réaumur's \"Histoire naturelle des insectes\" and Jacques Gautier d'Agoty's \"La Myologie complète, ou description de tous les muscles du corps humain\" (1746). Outside ancien régime France, natural history was an important part of medicine and industry, encompassing the fields of botany, zoology, meteorology, hydrology and mineralogy. Students in Enlightenment universities and academies were taught these subjects to prepare them for careers as diverse as medicine and theology. As shown by Matthew Daniel Eddy, natural history in this context was a very middle class pursuit and operated as a fertile trading zone for the interdisciplinary exchange of diverse scientific ideas.\n\nThe target audience of natural history was French polite society, evidenced more by the specific discourse of the genre than by the generally high prices of its works. Naturalists catered to polite society's desire for erudition – many texts had an explicit instructive purpose. However, natural history was often a political affair. As Emma Spary writes, the classifications used by naturalists \"slipped between the natural world and the social ... to establish not only the expertise of the naturalists over the natural, but also the dominance of the natural over the social\". The idea of taste (\"le goût\") was a social indicator: to truly be able to categorize nature, one had to have the proper taste, an ability of discretion shared by all members of polite society. In this way natural history spread many of the scientific developments of the time, but also provided a new source of legitimacy for the dominant class. From this basis, naturalists could then develop their own social ideals based on their scientific works.\n\nThe first scientific and literary journals were established during the Enlightenment. The first journal, the Parisian \"Journal des Sçavans\", appeared in 1665. However, it was not until 1682 that periodicals began to be more widely produced. French and Latin were the dominant languages of publication, but there was also a steady demand for material in German and Dutch. There was generally low demand for English publications on the Continent, which was echoed by England's similar lack of desire for French works. Languages commanding less of an international market—such as Danish, Spanish and Portuguese—found journal success more difficult and more often than not a more international language was used instead. French slowly took over Latin's status as the \"lingua franca\" of learned circles. This in turn gave precedence to the publishing industry in Holland, where the vast majority of these French language periodicals were produced.\n\nJonathan Israel called the journals the most influential cultural innovation of European intellectual culture. They shifted the attention of the \"cultivated public\" away from established authorities to novelty and innovation and instead promoted the \"enlightened\" ideals of toleration and intellectual objectivity. Being a source of knowledge derived from science and reason, they were an implicit critique of existing notions of universal truth monopolized by monarchies, parliaments and religious authorities. They also advanced Christian enlightenment that upheld \"the legitimacy of God-ordained authority\"—the Bible—in which there had to be agreement between the biblical and natural theories.\n\nAlthough the existence of dictionaries and encyclopedias spanned into ancient times, the texts changed from simply defining words in a long running list to far more detailed discussions of those words in 18th-century encyclopedic dictionaries. The works were part of an Enlightenment movement to systematize knowledge and provide education to a wider audience than the elite. As the 18th century progressed, the content of encyclopedias also changed according to readers' tastes. Volumes tended to focus more strongly on secular affairs, particularly science and technology, rather than matters of theology.\n\nAlong with secular matters, readers also favoured an alphabetical ordering scheme over cumbersome works arranged along thematic lines. Commenting on alphabetization, the historian Charles Porset has said that \"as the zero degree of taxonomy, alphabetical order authorizes all reading strategies; in this respect it could be considered an emblem of the Enlightenment\". For Porset, the avoidance of thematic and hierarchical systems thus allows free interpretation of the works and becomes an example of egalitarianism. Encyclopedias and dictionaries also became more popular during the Age of Enlightenment as the number of educated consumers who could afford such texts began to multiply. In the later half of the 18th century, the number of dictionaries and encyclopedias published by decade increased from 63 between 1760 and 1769 to approximately 148 in the decade proceeding the French Revolution (1780–1789). Along with growth in numbers, dictionaries and encyclopedias also grew in length, often having multiple print runs that sometimes included in supplemented editions.\n\nThe first technical dictionary was drafted by John Harris and entitled \"Lexicon Technicum: Or, An Universal English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences\". Harris' book avoided theological and biographical entries and instead it concentrated on science and technology. Published in 1704, the \"Lexicon technicum\" was the first book to be written in English that took a methodical approach to describing mathematics and commercial arithmetic along with the physical sciences and navigation. Other technical dictionaries followed Harris' model, including Ephraim Chambers' \"Cyclopaedia\" (1728), which included five editions and was a substantially larger work than Harris'. The folio edition of the work even included foldout engravings. The \"Cyclopaedia\" emphasized Newtonian theories, Lockean philosophy and contained thorough examinations of technologies, such as engraving, brewing and dyeing. In Germany, practical reference works intended for the uneducated majority became popular in the 18th century. The \"Marperger Curieuses Natur-, Kunst-, Berg-, Gewerkund Handlungs-Lexicon\" (1712) explained terms that usefully described the trades and scientific and commercial education. \"Jablonksi Allgemeines Lexicon\" (1721) was better known than the \"Handlungs-Lexicon\" and underscored technical subjects rather than scientific theory. For example, over five columns of text were dedicated to wine while geometry and logic were allocated only twenty-two and seventeen lines, respectively. The first edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" (1771) was modelled along the same lines as the German lexicons.\n\nHowever, the prime example of reference works that systematized scientific knowledge in the age of Enlightenment were universal encyclopedias rather than technical dictionaries. It was the goal of universal encyclopedias to record all human knowledge in a comprehensive reference work. The most well-known of these works is Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert's \"Encyclopédie, ou dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers\". The work, which began publication in 1751, was composed of thirty-five volumes and over 71 000 separate entries. A great number of the entries were dedicated to describing the sciences and crafts in detail and provided intellectuals across Europe with a high-quality survey of human knowledge. In d'Alembert's \"Preliminary Discourse to the Encyclopedia of Diderot\", the work's goal to record the extent of human knowledge in the arts and sciences is outlined:\n\nThe massive work was arranged according to a \"tree of knowledge\". The tree reflected the marked division between the arts and sciences, which was largely a result of the rise of empiricism. Both areas of knowledge were united by philosophy, or the trunk of the tree of knowledge. The Enlightenment's desacrilization of religion was pronounced in the tree's design, particularly where theology accounted for a peripheral branch, with black magic as a close neighbour. As the \"Encyclopédie\" gained popularity, it was published in quarto and octavo editions after 1777. The quarto and octavo editions were much less expensive than previous editions, making the \"Encyclopédie\" more accessible to the non-elite. Robert Darnton estimates that there were approximately 25 000 copies of the \"Encyclopédie\" in circulation throughout France and Europe before the French Revolution. The extensive, yet affordable encyclopedia came to represent the transmission of Enlightenment and scientific education to an expanding audience.\n\nOne of the most important developments that the Enlightenment era brought to the discipline of science was its popularization. An increasingly literate population seeking knowledge and education in both the arts and the sciences drove the expansion of print culture and the dissemination of scientific learning. The new literate population was due to a high rise in the availability of food. This enabled many people to rise out of poverty, and instead of paying more for food, they had money for education. Popularization was generally part of an overarching Enlightenment ideal that endeavoured \"to make information available to the greatest number of people\". As public interest in natural philosophy grew during the 18th century, public lecture courses and the publication of popular texts opened up new roads to money and fame for amateurs and scientists who remained on the periphery of universities and academies. More formal works included explanations of scientific theories for individuals lacking the educational background to comprehend the original scientific text. Sir Isaac Newton's celebrated \"Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" was published in Latin and remained inaccessible to readers without education in the classics until Enlightenment writers began to translate and analyze the text in the vernacular.\nThe first significant work that expressed scientific theory and knowledge expressly for the laity, in the vernacular and with the entertainment of readers in mind, was Bernard de Fontenelle's \"Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds\" (1686). The book was produced specifically for women with an interest in scientific writing and inspired a variety of similar works. These popular works were written in a discursive style, which was laid out much more clearly for the reader than the complicated articles, treatises and books published by the academies and scientists. Charles Leadbetter's \"Astronomy\" (1727) was advertised as \"a Work entirely New\" that would include \"short and easie Rules and Astronomical Tables\". The first French introduction to Newtonianism and the \"Principia\" was \"Eléments de la philosophie de Newton\", published by Voltaire in 1738. Émilie du Châtelet's translation of the \"Principia\", published after her death in 1756, also helped to spread Newton's theories beyond scientific academies and the university. Writing for a growing female audience, Francesco Algarotti published \"Il Newtonianism per le dame\", which was a tremendously popular work and was translated from Italian into English by Elizabeth Carter. A similar introduction to Newtonianism for women was produced by Henry Pemberton. His \"A View of Sir Isaac Newton's Philosophy\" was published by subscription. Extant records of subscribers show that women from a wide range of social standings purchased the book, indicating the growing number of scientifically inclined female readers among the middling class. During the Enlightenment, women also began producing popular scientific works themselves. Sarah Trimmer wrote a successful natural history textbook for children titled \"The Easy Introduction to the Knowledge of Nature\" (1782), which was published for many years after in eleven editions.\n\nMost work on the Enlightenment emphasizes the ideals discussed by intellectuals, rather than the actual state of education at the time. Leading educational theorists like England's John Locke and Switzerland's Jean Jacques Rousseau both emphasized the importance of shaping young minds early. By the late Enlightenment, there was a rising demand for a more universal approach to education, particularly after the American and French Revolutions.\n\nThe predominant educational psychology from the 1750s onward, especially in northern European countries was associationism, the notion that the mind associates or dissociates ideas through repeated routines. In addition to being conducive to Enlightenment ideologies of liberty, self-determination and personal responsibility, it offered a practical theory of the mind that allowed teachers to transform longstanding forms of print and manuscript culture into effective graphic tools of learning for the lower and middle orders of society. Children were taught to memorize facts through oral and graphic methods that originated during the Renaissance.\n\nMany of the leading universities associated with Enlightenment progressive principles were located in northern Europe, with the most renowned being the universities of Leiden, Göttingen, Halle, Montpellier, Uppsala and Edinburgh. These universities, especially Edinburgh, produced professors whose ideas had a significant impact on Britain's North American colonies and later the American Republic. Within the natural sciences, Edinburgh's medical school also led the way in chemistry, anatomy and pharmacology. In other parts of Europe, the universities and schools of France and most of Europe were bastions of traditionalism and were not hospitable to the Enlightenment. In France, the major exception was the medical university at Montpellier.\n\nThe history of Academies in France during the Enlightenment begins with the Academy of Science, founded in 1635 in Paris. It was closely tied to the French state, acting as an extension of a government seriously lacking in scientists. It helped promote and organize new disciplines and it trained new scientists. It also contributed to the enhancement of scientists' social status, considering them to be the \"most useful of all citizens\". Academies demonstrate the rising interest in science along with its increasing secularization, as evidenced by the small number of clerics who were members (13 percent). The presence of the French academies in the public sphere cannot be attributed to their membership, as although the majority of their members were bourgeois, the exclusive institution was only open to elite Parisian scholars. They perceived themselves as \"interpreters of the sciences for the people\". For example, it was with this in mind that academicians took it upon themselves to disprove the popular pseudo-science of mesmerism.\n\nThe strongest contribution of the French Academies to the public sphere comes from the \"concours académiques\" (roughly translated as \"academic contests\") they sponsored throughout France. These academic contests were perhaps the most public of any institution during the Enlightenment. The practice of contests dated back to the Middle Ages and was revived in the mid-17th century. The subject matter had previously been generally religious and/or monarchical, featuring essays, poetry and painting. However, by roughly 1725 this subject matter had radically expanded and diversified, including \"royal propaganda, philosophical battles, and critical ruminations on the social and political institutions of the Old Regime\". Topics of public controversy were also discussed such as the theories of Newton and Descartes, the slave trade, women's education and justice in France.\nMore importantly, the contests were open to all and the enforced anonymity of each submission guaranteed that neither gender nor social rank would determine the judging. Indeed, although the \"vast majority\" of participants belonged to the wealthier strata of society (\"the liberal arts, the clergy, the judiciary and the medical profession\"), there were some cases of the popular classes submitting essays and even winning. Similarly, a significant number of women participated—and won—the competitions. Of a total of 2,300 prize competitions offered in France, women won 49—perhaps a small number by modern standards, but very significant in an age in which most women did not have any academic training. Indeed, the majority of the winning entries were for poetry competitions, a genre commonly stressed in women's education.\n\nIn England, the Royal Society of London also played a significant role in the public sphere and the spread of Enlightenment ideas. It was founded by a group of independent scientists and given a royal charter in 1662. The Society played a large role in spreading Robert Boyle's experimental philosophy around Europe and acted as a clearinghouse for intellectual correspondence and exchange. Boyle was \"a founder of the experimental world in which scientists now live and operate\" and his method based knowledge on experimentation, which had to be witnessed to provide proper empirical legitimacy. This is where the Royal Society came into play: witnessing had to be a \"collective act\" and the Royal Society's assembly rooms were ideal locations for relatively public demonstrations. However, not just any witness was considered to be credible: \"Oxford professors were accounted more reliable witnesses than Oxfordshire peasants\". Two factors were taken into account: a witness's knowledge in the area and a witness's \"moral constitution\". In other words, only civil society were considered for Boyle's public.\n\nIt was the place in which philosophes got reunited and talked about old, actual or new ideas. Salons were the place where intellectual and enlightened ideas were built.\n\nCoffeehouses were especially important to the spread of knowledge during the Enlightenment because they created a unique environment in which people from many different walks of life gathered and shared ideas. They were frequently criticized by nobles who feared the possibility of an environment in which class and its accompanying titles and privileges were disregarded. Such an environment was especially intimidating to monarchs who derived much of their power from the disparity between classes of people. If classes were to join together under the influence of Enlightenment thinking, they might recognize the all-encompassing oppression and abuses of their monarchs and because of their size might be able to carry out successful revolts. Monarchs also resented the idea of their subjects convening as one to discuss political matters, especially those concerning foreign affairs—rulers thought political affairs to be their business only, a result of their supposed divine right to rule.\n\nCoffeehouses represent a turning point in history during which people discovered that they could have enjoyable social lives within their communities. Coffeeshops became homes away from home for many who sought, for the first time, to engage in discourse with their neighbors and discuss intriguing and thought-provoking matters, especially those regarding philosophy to politics. Coffeehouses were essential to the Enlightenment, for they were centers of free-thinking and self-discovery. Although many coffeehouse patrons were scholars, a great deal were not. Coffeehouses attracted a diverse set of people, including not only the educated wealthy but also members of the bourgeoisie and the lower class. While it may seem positive that patrons, being doctors, lawyers, merchants, etc. represented almost all classes, the coffeeshop environment sparked fear in those who sought to preserve class distinction. One of the most popular critiques of the coffeehouse claimed that it \"allowed promiscuous association among people from different rungs of the social ladder, from the artisan to the aristocrat\" and was therefore compared to Noah's Ark, receiving all types of animals, clean or unclean. This unique culture served as a catalyst for journalism when Joseph Addison and Richard Steele recognized its potential as an audience. Together, Steele and Addison published \"The Spectator (1711)\", a daily publication which aimed, through fictional narrator Mr. Spectator, both to entertain and to provoke discussion regarding serious philosophical matters.\n\nThe first English coffeehouse opened in Oxford in 1650. Brian Cowan said that Oxford coffeehouses developed into \"penny universities\", offering a locus of learning that was less formal than structured institutions. These penny universities occupied a significant position in Oxford academic life, as they were frequented by those consequently referred to as the \"virtuosi\", who conducted their research on some of the resulting premises. According to Cowan, \"the coffeehouse was a place for like-minded scholars to congregate, to read, as well as learn from and to debate with each other, but was emphatically not a university institution, and the discourse there was of a far different order than any university tutorial\".\n\nThe Café Procope was established in Paris in 1686 and by the 1720s there were around 400 cafés in the city. The Café Procope in particular became a center of Enlightenment, welcoming such celebrities as Voltaire and Rousseau. The Café Procope was where Diderot and D'Alembert decided to create the \"Encyclopédie\". The cafés were one of the various \"nerve centers\" for \"bruits publics\", public noise or rumour. These \"bruits\" were allegedly a much better source of information than were the actual newspapers available at the time.\n\nThe debating societies are an example of the public sphere during the Enlightenment. Their origins include:\nIn the late 1770s, popular debating societies began to move into more \"genteel\" rooms, a change which helped establish a new standard of sociability. The backdrop to these developments was \"an explosion of interest in the theory and practice of public elocution\". The debating societies were commercial enterprises that responded to this demand, sometimes very successfully. Some societies welcomed from 800 to 1,200 spectators a night.\n\nThe debating societies discussed an extremely wide range of topics. Before the Enlightenment, most intellectual debates revolved around \"confessional\" – that is, Catholic, Lutheran, Reformed (Calvinist) or Anglican issues and the main aim of these debates was to establish which bloc of faith ought to have the \"monopoly of truth and a God-given title to authority\". After this date, everything thus previously rooted in tradition was questioned and often replaced by new concepts in the light of philosophical reason. After the second half of the 17th century and during the 18th century, a \"general process of rationalization and secularization set in\" and confessional disputes were reduced to a secondary status in favor of the \"escalating contest between faith and incredulity\".\n\nIn addition to debates on religion, societies discussed issues such as politics and the role of women. However, it is important to note that the critical subject matter of these debates did not necessarily translate into opposition to the government. In other words, the results of the debate quite frequently upheld the \"status quo\". From a historical standpoint, one of the most important features of the debating society was their openness to the public, as women attended and even participated in almost every debating society, which were likewise open to all classes providing they could pay the entrance fee. Once inside, spectators were able to participate in a largely egalitarian form of sociability that helped spread Enlightenment ideas.\n\nHistorians have long debated the extent to which the secret network of Freemasonry was a main factor in the Enlightenment. The leaders of the Enlightenment included Freemasons such as Diderot, Montesquieu, Voltaire, Lessing, Pope, Horace Walpole, Sir Robert Walpole, Mozart, Goethe, Frederick the Great, Benjamin Franklin and George Washington. Norman Davies said that Freemasonry was a powerful force on behalf of liberalism in Europe from about 1700 to the twentieth century. It expanded rapidly during the Age of Enlightenment, reaching practically every country in Europe. It was especially attractive to powerful aristocrats and politicians as well as intellectuals, artists and political activists.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, Freemasons comprised an international network of like-minded men, often meeting in secret in ritualistic programs at their lodges. They promoted the ideals of the Enlightenment and helped diffuse these values across Britain and France and other places. Freemasonry as a systematic creed with its own myths, values and set of rituals originated in Scotland around 1600 and spread first to England and then across the Continent in the eighteenth century. They fostered new codes of conduct—including a communal understanding of liberty and equality inherited from guild sociability—\"liberty, fraternity and equality\". Scottish soldiers and Jacobite Scots brought to the Continent ideals of fraternity which reflected not the local system of Scottish customs but the institutions and ideals originating in the English Revolution against royal absolutism. Freemasonry was particularly prevalent in France—by 1789, there were perhaps as many as 100,000 French Masons, making Freemasonry the most popular of all Enlightenment associations. The Freemasons displayed a passion for secrecy and created new degrees and ceremonies. Similar societies, partially imitating Freemasonry, emerged in France, Germany, Sweden and Russia. One example was the Illuminati founded in Bavaria in 1776, which was copied after the Freemasons, but was never part of the movement. The Illuminati was an overtly political group, which most Masonic lodges decidedly were not.\n\nMasonic lodges created a private model for public affairs. They \"reconstituted the polity and established a constitutional form of self-government, complete with constitutions and laws, elections and representatives\". In other words, the micro-society set up within the lodges constituted a normative model for society as a whole. This was especially true on the continent: when the first lodges began to appear in the 1730s, their embodiment of British values was often seen as threatening by state authorities. For example, the Parisian lodge that met in the mid 1720s was composed of English Jacobite exiles. Furthermore, freemasons all across Europe explicitly linked themselves to the Enlightenment as a whole. For example, in French lodges the line \"As the means to be enlightened I search for the enlightened\" was a part of their initiation rites. British lodges assigned themselves the duty to \"initiate the unenlightened\". This did not necessarily link lodges to the irreligious, but neither did this exclude them from the occasional heresy. In fact, many lodges praised the Grand Architect, the masonic terminology for the deistic divine being who created a scientifically ordered universe.\n\nGerman historian Reinhart Koselleck claimed: \"On the Continent there were two social structures that left a decisive imprint on the Age of Enlightenment: the Republic of Letters and the Masonic lodges\". Scottish professor Thomas Munck argues that \"although the Masons did promote international and cross-social contacts which were essentially non-religious and broadly in agreement with enlightened values, they can hardly be described as a major radical or reformist network in their own right\". Many of the Masons values seemed to greatly appeal to Enlightenment values and thinkers. Diderot discusses the link between Freemason ideals and the enlightenment in D'Alembert's Dream, exploring masonry as a way of spreading enlightenment beliefs. Historian Margaret Jacob stresses the importance of the Masons in indirectly inspiring enlightened political thought. On the negative side, Daniel Roche contests claims that Masonry promoted egalitarianism and he argues that the lodges only attracted men of similar social backgrounds. The presence of noble women in the French \"lodges of adoption\" that formed in the 1780s was largely due to the close ties shared between these lodges and aristocratic society.\n\nThe major opponent of Freemasonry was the Roman Catholic Church so that in countries with a large Catholic element, such as France, Italy, Spain and Mexico, much of the ferocity of the political battles involve the confrontation between what Davies calls the reactionary Church and enlightened Freemasonry. Even in France, Masons did not act as a group. American historians, while noting that Benjamin Franklin and George Washington were indeed active Masons, have downplayed the importance of Freemasonry in causing the American Revolution because the Masonic order was non-political and included both Patriots and their enemy the Loyalists.\n\nThe art produced during the Enlightenment was about a search for morality that was absent from previous art. At the same time, the Classical art of Greece and Rome became interesting to people again, since archaeological teams discovered Pompeii and Herculaneum. People took inspiration from it and revived the classical art into neo-classical art. This can be especially seen in early American art, where, throughout their art and architecture, they used arches, goddesses, and other classical architectural designs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "628150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=628150", "title": "Alan Millar", "text": "Alan Millar\n\nAlan Millar FRSE (born 14 December 1947) is the former Head of Philosophy at the University of Stirling, Scotland. \n\nHe earned his PhD at the University of Cambridge and joined the department at Stirling University in 1971. His primary research interests are philosophy of mind and the theory of knowledge. He is a member of the editorial board of \"The Philosophical Quarterly\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2494131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494131", "title": "Alessandro Piccolomini", "text": "Alessandro Piccolomini\n\nAlessandro Piccolomini (13 June 1508 – 12 March 1579) was an Italian astronomer and philosopher from Siena, who promoted the popularization in the vernacular of Latin and Greek scientific and philosophical treatises. His early works include \"Il Dialogo della bella creanza delle donne, o Raffaella\" (1539) and the comedies \"Amor costante\", and \"Alessandro\", (other titles are erroneously attributed to him) which were sponsored and produced by the Sienese Accademia degl'Intronati, of which he was a member and an official. Much of his literary production consisted of translations from the Classics, of which Book xiii of Ovid's Metamorphoses and book vi of the Aeneid are early examples. In 1540, while a student at the University of Padua, he helped found the Infiammati Academy, in which he gave lectures in philosophy. (He never taught at the University of Padua, as is often stated incorrectly.) His poetry, in which he followed the Petrarchan tradition, appeared first in various contemporary collections, and in 1549 he published as a single volume one hundred sonnets titled \"Cento sonetti\". Later in life, he translated Aristotle's Poetics on which he wrote a learned commentary issued in 1575. His interest in Aristotle included the publication of a paraphrase of Aristotle's Rhetoric with commentary. In his \"Trattato della grandezza della terra e dell' acqua\" (1558), he opposed the Aristotelean and Ptolemaic opinion that water was more extensive than land.\n\nThe treatises \"Sfera del mondo e Delle stelle fisse\" (The sphere of the world and The fixed stars) (1540), in which he adhered to Ptolemaic theories, were some of his major contributions to the field of astronomy. He also wrote, at the behest of Cosimo de' Medici, a proposal for reforming the calendar (1578). In 1574 Pope Gregory XIII appointed him titular bishop of Patras (Patrae) and Coadjutor Archbishop of Siena.\n\nHis comedy \"Alessandro\" was adapted by George Chapman into \"May Day\" (printed 1611).\n\nThe lunar crater Piccolomini is named after him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286067", "title": "Ananda Coomaraswamy", "text": "Ananda Coomaraswamy\n\nAnanda Kentish Muthu Coomaraswamy (, \"Ānanda Kentiś Muthū Kumāraswāmī\"; 22 August 1877 − 9 September 1947) was a Ceylonese Tamil philosopher and Metaphysicist, as well as a pioneering historian and philosopher of Indian art, particularly art history and symbolism, and an early interpreter of Indian culture to the West. In particular, he is described as \"the groundbreaking theorist who was largely responsible for introducing ancient Indian art to the West.\"\n\nAnanda Kentish Coomaraswamy was born in Colombo, Ceylon, now Sri Lanka, to the Ceylonese Tamil legislator and philosopher Sir Muthu Coomaraswamy of the Ponnambalam–Coomaraswamy family and his English wife Elizabeth Beeby. His father died when Ananda was two years old, and Ananda spent much of his childhood and education abroad.\n\nCoomaraswamy moved to England in 1879 and attended Wycliffe College, a preparatory school in Stroud, Gloucestershire, at the age of twelve. In 1900, he graduated from University College, London, with a degree in geology and botany. On 19 June 1902, Coomaraswamy married Ethel Mary Partridge, an English photographer, who then traveled with him to Ceylon. Their marriage lasted until 1913. Coomaraswamy's field work between 1902 and 1906 earned him a doctor of science for his study of Ceylonese mineralogy, and prompted the formation of the Geological Survey of Ceylon which he initially directed. While in Ceylon, the couple collaborated on \"Mediaeval Sinhalese Art\"; Coomaraswamy wrote the text and Ethel provided the photographs. His work in Ceylon fueled Coomaraswamy's anti-Westernization sentiments.\nAfter their divorce, Partridge returned to England, where she became a famous weaver and later married the writer Philip Mairet.\n\nBy 1906, Coomaraswamy had made it his mission to educate the West about Indian art, and was back in London with a large collection of photographs, actively seeking out artists to try to influence. He knew he could not rely on museum curators or other members of the cultural establishment – in 1908 he wrote \"The main difficulty so far seems to have been that Indian art has been studied so far only by archaeologists. It is not archaeologists, but artists … who are the best qualified to judge of the significance of works of art considered as art.\" By 1909, he was firmly acquainted with Jacob Epstein and Eric Gill, the city's two most important early Modernists, and soon both of them had begun to incorporate Indian aesthetics into their work. The curiously hybrid sculptures that were produced as a result can be seen to form the very roots of what is now considered British Modernism.\nCoomaraswamy then met and married a British woman Alice Ethel Richardson and together they went to India and stayed on a houseboat in Srinagar in Kashmir. Commaraswamy studied Rajput painting while his wife studied Indian music with Abdul Rahim of Kapurthala. When they returned to England, Alice performed Indian song under the stage name Ratan Devi. Alice was successful and both went to America when Ratan Devi did a concert tour. While they were there, Coomaraswamy was invited to serve as the first Keeper of Indian art in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts in 1917. The couple had two children, a son, Narada, and daughter, Rohini.\nCoomaraswamy divorced his second wife after they arrived in America. He married the American artist Stella Bloch, 29 years his junior, in November 1922. Through the 1920s, Coomaraswamy and his wife were part of the bohemian art circles in New York City, Coomaraswamy befriended Alfred Stieglitz and the artists who exhibited at Stieglitz's gallery. At the same time, he studied Sanskrit and Pali religious literature as well as Western religious works. He wrote catalogues for the Museum of Fine Arts and published his \"History of Indian and Indonesian Art\" in 1927.\n\nAfter the couple divorced in 1930, they remained friends. Shortly thereafter, on 18 November 1930, Coomaraswamy married Argentine Luisa Runstein, 28 years younger, who was working as a society photographer under the professional name Xlata Llamas. They had a son, Coomaraswamy's third child, Rama Ponnambalam (1929-2006), who became a physician and convert at age 22 to the Roman Catholic Church. Following Vatican II, Rama became a critic of the reforms and author of Catholic Traditionalist works. He was also ordained a Traditionalist Roman Catholic priest, despite the fact that he was married and had a living wife.\n\nIn 1933 Coomaraswamy's title at the Museum of Fine Arts changed from curator to Fellow for Research in Indian, Persian, and Mohammedan Art.\n\nHe served as curator in the Museum of Fine Arts until his death in Needham, Massachusetts, in 1947. During his long career, he was instrumental in bringing Eastern art to the West. In fact, while at the Museum of Fine Arts, he built the first substantial collection of Indian art in the United States.\n\nHe also helped with the collections of Persian Art at the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., and the Museum of Fine Arts.\n\nAfter Coomaraswamy's death, his widow, Doña Luisa Runstein, acted as a guide and resource for students of his work.\n\nCoomaraswamy made important contributions to the philosophy of art, literature, and religion. In Ceylon, he applied the lessons of William Morris to Ceylonese culture and, with his wife Ethel, produced a groundbreaking study of Ceylonese crafts and culture. While in India, he was part of the literary circle around Rabindranath Tagore, and he contributed to the \"Swadeshi\" movement, an early phase of the struggle for Indian independence. In the 1920s, he made pioneering discoveries in the history of Indian art, particularly some distinctions between Rajput and Moghul painting, and published his book \"Rajput Painting\". At the same time he amassed an unmatched collection of Rajput and Moghul paintings, which he took with him to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, when he joined its curatorial staff in 1917. Through 1932, from his base in Boston, he produced two kinds of publications: brilliant scholarship in his curatorial field but also graceful introductions to Indian and Asian art and culture, typified by \"The Dance of Shiva\", a collection of essays that remain in print to this day. Deeply influenced by René Guénon, he became one of the founders of the Traditionalist School. His books and essays on art and culture, symbolism and metaphysics, scripture, folklore and myth, and still other topics, offer a remarkable education to readers who accept the challenges of his resolutely cross-cultural perspective and insistence on tying every point he makes back to sources in multiple traditions. He once remarked, \"I actually think in both Eastern and Christian terms—Greek, Latin, Sanskrit, Pali, and to some extent Persian and Chinese.\" Alongside the deep and not infrequently difficult writings of this period, he also delighted in polemical writings created for a larger audience—essays such as \"Why exhibit works of art?\" (1943).\n\nIn his book \"The Information Society: An Introduction\" (Sage, 2003, p. 44), Armand Mattelart credits Coomaraswamy for coining the term 'post-industrial' in 1913.\n\nHe was described by Heinrich Zimmer as \"That noble scholar upon whose shoulders we are still standing.\" While serving as a curator to the Boston Museum of Fine Arts in the latter part of his life, he devoted his work to the explication of traditional metaphysics and symbolism. His writings of this period are filled with references to Plato, Plotinus, Clement, Philo, Augustine, Aquinas, Shankara, Eckhart, Rumi and other mystics. When asked how he defined himself foremost, Coomaraswamy said he was a \"metaphysician\", referring to the concept of perennial philosophy, or \"sophia perennis\".\n\nAlong with René Guénon and Frithjof Schuon, Coomaraswamy is regarded as one of the three founders of Perennialism, also called the Traditionalist School. Several articles by Coomaraswamy on the subject of Hinduism and the perennial philosophy were published posthumously in the quarterly journal \"Studies in Comparative Religion\" alongside articles by Schuon and Guénon among others.\n\nAlthough he agrees with Guénon on the universal principles, Coomaraswamy's works are very different in form. By vocation, he was a scholar who dedicated the last decades of his life to \"searching the Scriptures\". He offers a perspective on the tradition that complements Guénon's. He was extremely perceptive regarding aesthetics and wrote dozens of articles on traditional arts and mythology. His works are also finely balanced intellectually. Although born in the Hindu tradition, he had a deep knowledge of the Western tradition as well as a great expertise in, and love for, Greek metaphysics, especially that of Plotinus, the founder of Neoplatonism.\n\nCoomaraswamy built a bridge between East and West that was designed to be two-way: among other things, his metaphysical writings aimed at \"demonstrating the unity of the Vedanta and Platonism\". His works also sought to rehabilitate original Buddhism, a tradition that Guénon had for a long time limited to a rebellion of the Kshatriyas against Brahmin authority.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48691795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48691795", "title": "Anita Krajnc case", "text": "Anita Krajnc case\n\nThe Anita Krajnc case refers to the case of Toronto resident Anita Krajnc who was charged with criminal mischief for giving water to pigs in a slaughter truck on the way to Fearman's Pork Inc. slaughterhouse, located in Burlington, Greater Toronto Area. This incident occurred on June 22, 2015, and Krajnc was found not guilty on May 4, 2017.\n\nAnita Krajnc is co-founder of Toronto Pig Save, which was started in 2010. She holds a PhD in Political Science from the University of Toronto. Her doctoral thesis was based on the role of scientific knowledge and public education in building international environmental regimes. Krajnc has been Assistant Professor at Queen's University. She has also been a media democracy activist and a writer. She was an aide to Charles Caccia, former Minister of Environment.\n\nThe related incident occurred on June 22, 2015, outside Fearman's Pork Inc. slaughterhouse in Burlington. The protest was undertaken by Toronto Pig Save, a group to which Krajnc, who is described as an animal rights activist, belongs. Krajnc and her group were providing water to pigs in trucks transporting them to slaughter, as they stopped at a traffic island at the intersection of Appleby Line and Harvester Road, through the vents on the sides of the truck. As they were doing so, a driver of one of the trucks, got down and went to her and asked her to stop. Krajnc recited a verse from the biblical Book of Proverbs: \"If they are thirsty, give them water\". In response the driver told her that the pigs weren't human. Krajnc asked the driver to be compassionate; he said he would call the police, Krajnc suggested that she would call Jesus. The driver then walked away, boarded the truck and drove on. This interaction was filmed by Krajnc's associates. The police report on the incident described the contents of the bottle as \"an unknown liquid\".\n\nOn June 23, 2015, Eric van Boekel, from whose farm the pigs were brought, filed a case against Krajnc. On September 9, 2015, Krajnc was charged with criminal mischief, the penalty for which ranges from a fine to 10 years in prison. In response, the group arranged a vigil on September 24. On October 14, 2015, Krajnc appeared in court for an arraignment, to have charges read to her. In the context of the case \"The Daily Telegraph\" reports that under Canadian law pigs are considered property and can be transported without food and water for 36 hours. Krajnc has said that she would refuse to pay any fine and that she was willing to suffer imprisonment.\n\nThe driver of the truck stated that the activists were entitled to protest, his objection was to their touching his truck (which may jeopardise their own safety) or feeding the pigs. He considers the charges justifiable. He said that the pigs were loaded an hour before the incident and argued that it was unlikely they were dehydrated. \"Metro\" printed a rebuttal from Bob Comis, a former breeder who stated that the pigs as seen in video of the incident showed symptoms of \"severe heat stress\". Eric van Boekel, in support of his complaint, said, \"They don't have the right to involve other people's property and they don't have the right to protest illegally\". He stated that rules set by pig breeders regarding food and water were followed by his operations. A story reporting the incident noted that breeding facilities owned by the same Eric van Boekel were charged with polluting the Thames river in April 2007 and fined $120,000.\n\nKrajnc has stated that treating living animals such as pigs as property – \"no different than a toaster\" – is the focal issue of the matter and that being compassionate to them should not be considered criminal.\n\nOn October 4, 2016, Krajnc was arrested on charges of obstructing police and breaching her bail conditions, after a truck heading to the slaughterhouse overturned and a number of pigs briefly gained their freedom. Police had taped off part of the street to deal with the incident, and Krajnc was arrested after ignoring their instructions. Protesters complained of slaughterhouse staff trying to block the public's view of the injured and dead pigs.\n\nThe case was heard in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice and presided over by Justice David Harris. Closing arguments in the trial were made on March 9, 2017.\n\nJustice David Harris found Krajnc not guilty of criminal mischief on May 4, 2017, judging that a crime had not occurred because simply giving water to the pigs did not constitute interference \"with the operation, enjoyment or use of\" the pigs by their owners as argued by the Crown. Harris also dismissed the argument that Krajnc's actions created a safety risk via possible contamination, finding that the driver had delivered the pigs immediately afterwards with no mention of the incident because he did not think there was a real risk, and that in the past, despite knowing that the pigs had been given water, abattoirs had never refused them.\n\nHarris dismissed the testimony of two defendant's expert witnesses as unobjective and also found that one of them had been \"less than scientific\". But he chastised the defence team for making attention-grabbing statements comparing Krajnc to Mandela, Gandhi, Susan B. Anthony, and those who had helped Jews during the Holocaust.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reports that many online petitions have been created in defence of Krajnc. By November 30, 2015, the petition on Care2 called \"Compassion Isn't a Crime\" had 125,500 signatories, while another on Change.org asking the Ontario Court of Justice to drop charges against her, had over 24,600. \"The Daily Telegraph\" considers the case \"a cause célèbre for animal welfare activists\". Another story reports that the case has caused Krajnc to \"become a minor celebrity on social media.\" Instagram and Facebook pages have been created. In a case similar to Krajnc's, all charges against activist Ciara Birley, of Smithfield Pig Save in Virginia, USA - for giving water to pigs after transport before slaughter - were dismissed.\n"}
{"id": "19887527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19887527", "title": "Availability cascade", "text": "Availability cascade\n\nAn availability cascade is a self-reinforcing cycle that explains the development of certain kinds of collective beliefs. A novel idea or insight, usually one that seems to explain a complex process in a simple or straightforward manner, gains rapid currency in the popular discourse by its very simplicity and by its apparent insightfulness. Its rising popularity triggers a chain reaction within the social network: individuals adopt the new insight because other people within the network have adopted it, and on its face it seems plausible. The reason for this increased use and popularity of the new idea involves both the availability of the previously obscure term or idea, and the need of individuals using the term or idea to appear to be current with the stated beliefs and ideas of others, regardless of whether they in fact fully believe in the idea that they are expressing. Their need for social acceptance, and the apparent sophistication of the new insight, overwhelm their critical thinking.\n\nThe idea of the availability cascade was first developed by Timur Kuran and Cass Sunstein as a variation of information cascades mediated by the availability heuristic, with the addition of reputational cascades. The availability cascade concept has been highly influential in finance theory and regulatory research, particular with respect to assessing and regulating risk.\n\nAvailability cascades occur in a society via public discourse (e.g. the public sphere and the news media) or over social networks—sets of linked actors in one or more of several roles. These actors process incoming information to form their private beliefs according to various rules, both rational and semi-rational. The semi-rational rules include the heuristics, in particular the availability heuristic. The actors then behave and express their public beliefs according to self-interest, which might cause their publicly expressed beliefs to deviate from their privately held beliefs. In The Tipping Point, Malcolm Gladwell defines three significant roles: connectors, mavens (\"information specialists\"), and salesmen (\"persuaders\"). Kuran and Sunstein emphasize the role of availability entrepreneurs, agents willing to invest resources into promoting a belief in order to derive some personal benefit. Other availability entrepreneurs with opposing interests may wage availability counter-campaigns. Other key roles include journalists and politicians, both of which are subject to economic and reputational pressures, the former in competition in the media, the latter for political status. As resources (e.g. attention and money) are limited, beliefs compete with one another in the \"availability market\". A given incident and subsequent availability campaign may succeed in raising the availability of one issue at the expense of other issues.\n\nDual process theory posits that human reasoning is divided into two systems, often called System 1 and System 2. System 1 is automatic and unconscious; other terms used for it include the implicit system, the experiential system, the associative system, and the heuristic system. System 2 is evolutionarily recent and specific to humans, performing the more slow and sequential thinking. It is also known as the explicit system, the rule-based system, the rational system, or the analytic system. In The Happiness Hypothesis, Jonathan Haidt refers to System 1 and System 2 as the elephant and the rider: while human beings incorporate reason into their beliefs, whether via direct use of facts and logic or their application as a test to hypotheses formed by other means, it is the elephant that is really in charge.\n\nHeuristics are simple, efficient rules which people often use to form judgments and make decisions. They are mental shortcuts that replace a complex problem with a simpler one. These rules work well under most circumstances, but they can lead to systematic deviations from logic, probability or rational choice theory. The resulting errors are called \"cognitive biases\" and many different types have been documented. These have been shown to affect people's choices in situations like valuing a house or deciding the outcome of a legal case. Heuristics usually govern automatic, intuitive judgments but can also be used as deliberate mental strategies when working from limited information. While seemingly irrational, the cognitive biases may be interpreted as the result of bounded rationality, with human beings making decisions while economizing time and effort.\n\nKuran and Sunstein describe the availability heuristic as more fundamental than the other heuristics: besides being important in its own right, it enables and amplifies the others, including framing, representativeness, anchoring, and reference points.\n\nEven educated human beings are notoriously poor at thinking statistically. The availability heuristic, first identified by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, is a mental shortcut that occurs when people judge the probability of events by how easy it is to think of examples. The availability heuristic operates on the notion that, \"if you can think of it, it must be important.\" Availability can be influenced by the emotional power of examples and by their perceived frequency; while personal, first-hand incidents are more available than those that happened to others, availability can be skewed by the media. In his book Thinking, Fast and Slow, Kahneman cites the examples of celebrity divorces and airplane crashes; both are more often reported by the media, and thus tend to be exaggerated in perceived frequency.\n\nAn important class of judgments is those concerning risk: the expectation of harm to result from a given threat, a function of the threat's likelihood and impact. Changes in perceived risk result in risk compensation—correspondingly more or less mitigation, including precautionary measures and support for regulation. Kuran and Sunstein offer three examples of availability cascades—Love Canal, the Alar scare, and TWA Flight 800—in which a spreading public panic led to growing calls for increasingly expensive government action to deal with risks that turned out later to be grossly exaggerated. Others have used the term \"culture of fear\" to refer to the habitual achieving of goals via such fear appeals, notably in the case of the threat of terrorism.\n\nIn the early years of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, many believed that the disease received less attention than warranted, in part due to the stigma attached to its sufferers. Since that time advocates— availability entrepreneurs that include LGBT activists and conservative Surgeon General of the United States C. Everett Koop—have succeeded in raising awareness to achieve significant funding. Similarly, awareness and funding for breast cancer and prostate cancer are high, thanks in part to the availability of these diseases. Other prevalent diseases competing for funding but lacking the availability of HIV/AIDS or cancer include lupus, sickle-cell anemia, and tuberculosis.\n\nThe MMR vaccine controversy was an example of an unwarranted health scare. It was triggered by the publication in 1998 of a paper in the medical journal \"The Lancet\" which presented apparent evidence that autism spectrum disorders could be caused by the MMR vaccine, an immunization against measles, mumps and rubella.\nIn 2004, investigations by \"Sunday Times\" journalist Brian Deer revealed that the lead author of the article, Andrew Wakefield, had multiple undeclared conflicts of interest, had manipulated evidence, and had broken other ethical codes. The \"Lancet\" paper was partially retracted in 2004 and fully retracted in 2010, and Wakefield was found guilty of professional misconduct. The scientific consensus is that no evidence links the vaccine to the development of autism, and that the vaccine's benefits greatly outweigh its risks.\nThe claims in Wakefield's 1998 \"The Lancet\" article were widely reported; vaccination rates in the UK and Ireland dropped sharply, which was followed by significantly increased incidence of measles and mumps, resulting in deaths and severe and permanent injuries. Reaction to vaccine controversies has contributed to a significant increase in preventable diseases including measles and pertussis (whooping cough), which in 2011 experienced its worst outbreak in 70 years as a result of reduced vaccination rates. \nConcerns about immunization safety often follow a pattern: some investigators suggest that a medical condition is an adverse effect of vaccination; a premature announcement is made of the alleged adverse effect; the initial study is not reproduced by other groups; and finally, it takes several years to regain public confidence in the vaccine.\n\nExtreme weather events provide opportunities to raise the availability of global warming. In the United States, the mass media devoted little coverage to global warming until the drought of 1988, and the testimony of James E. Hansen to the United States Senate, which explicitly attributed \"the abnormally hot weather plaguing our nation\" to global warming. The global warming controversy has attracted availability entrepreneurs on both sides, e.g. the book Merchants of Doubt claiming that scientific consensus had long ago been reached, and climatologist Patrick Michaels providing the skeptical viewpoint.\n\nThe media inclination to sensationalism results in a tendency to devote disproportionate coverage to sympathetic victims (e.g. missing white woman syndrome), terrifying assailants (e.g. Media coverage of the Virginia Tech massacre), and incidents with multiple victims. Although half the victims of gun violence in the United States are black, generally young urban black males, media coverage and public awareness spike after suburban school shootings, as do calls for stricter gun control laws.\n\nInternational adoption scandals receive disproportionate attention in the countries of adoptees' origins. As the incidents involve abuse of children, they easily spark media attention, and availability entrepreneurs (e.g. populist politicians) fan the flames of xenophobia, without making statistical comparisons of adoptee abuse in the source and target nations, or of the likelihood of abuse vs. other risks.\n\nPoisoned candy myths are urban legends that malevolent individuals could hide poison or drugs, or sharp objects such as razor blades, needles, or broken glass in candy and distribute the candy in order to harm random children, especially during Halloween trick-or-treating. Several events fostered the candy tampering myth. The first took place in 1964, when an annoyed Long Island, New York housewife started giving out packages of inedible objects to children who she believed were too old to be trick-or-treating. The packages contained items such as steel wool, dog biscuits, and ant buttons (which were clearly labeled with the word \"poison\"). Although nobody was injured, she was prosecuted and pleaded guilty to endangering children. The same year saw reports of lye-filled bubble gum being handed out in Detroit and rat poison being given in Philadelphia.\n\nThe second milestone in the spread of the candy-tampering myths was an article published in \"The New York Times\" in 1970. It claimed that \"Those Halloween goodies that children collect this weekend on their rounds of ‘trick or treating’ may bring them more horror than happiness\", and provided specific examples of potential tamperings.\n\nIn 2008, candy was found with metal shavings and metal blades embedded in it. The candy was Pokémon Valentine's Day lollipops purchased from a Dollar General store in Polk County, Florida. The candy was determined to have been manufactured in China and not tampered with within the United States. The lollipops were pulled from the shelves after a mother reported a blade in her child's lollipop and after several more lollipops with metal shavings in them were confiscated from a local elementary school. Also in 2008, some cold medicine was discovered in cases of Smarties that were handed out to children in Ontario.\n\nOver the years, various experts have tried to debunk the various candy tampering stories. Among this group is Joel Best, a University of Delaware sociologist who specializes in investigating candy tampering legends. In his studies, and the book \"Threatened Children: Rhetoric and Concern about Child-Victims\", he researched newspapers from 1958 on in search of candy tampering. Of these stories, fewer than 90 instances might have qualified as actual candy tampering. Best has found five child deaths that were initially thought by local authorities to be caused by homicidal strangers, but none of those were sustained by investigation.\n\nDespite the falsity of these claims the news media promoted the story continuously throughout the 1980s, with local news stations featuring frequent coverage. During this time, cases of poisoning were repeatedly reported based on unsubstantiated claims or before a full investigation could be completed and often never followed up on. This one-sided coverage contributed to the overall panic and caused rival media outlets to issue reports of candy tampering as well. By 1985, the media had driven the hysteria about candy poisonings to such a point that an ABC News/\"The Washington Post\" poll that found 60% of parents feared that their children would be injured or killed because of Halloween candy sabotage.\n\nThe phenomenon of media feeding frenzies is driven by a combination of the psychology described by the availability cascade model and the financial imperatives of media organizations to retain their funding.\n\nThere are two schools of thought on how to cope with risks raised by availability cascades: technocratic and democratic. \nThe technocratic approach, championed by Kuran and Sunstein, emphasizes assessing, prioritizing, and mitigating risks according to objective risk measures (e.g. expected costs, expected disability-adjusted life years (DALY)). The technocratic approach considers availability cascades to be phenomena of mass irrationality that can distort or hijack public policy, misallocating resources or imposing regulatory burdens whose costs exceed the expected costs of the risks they mitigate.\n\nThe democratic approach, championed by Paul Slovic, respects risk preferences as revealed by the availability market. For example, though lightning strikes kill far more people each year than shark attacks, if people genuinely consider death by shark worse than death by lightning, a disproportionate share of resources should be devoted to averting shark attacks.\n\nKuran and Sunstein recommend that availability cascades be recognized, and institutional safeguards be implemented in all branches of government. They recommend expanded product defamation laws, analogous to personal libel laws, to discourage availability entrepreneurs from knowingly spreading false and damaging reports about a product. They recommend that the legislative branch create a Risk Regulation Committee to assess risks in a broader context and perform cost-benefit analyses of risks and regulations, avoiding hasty responses pandering to public opinion. They recommend that the executive branch use peer review to open agency proposals to scrutiny by informed outsiders. They also recommend creation of a Risk Information Center with a Risk Information Web Site to provide the public with objective risk measures. In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Federal Bureau of Investigation maintain web sites that provide objective statistics on the causes of death and violent crime.\n\n"}
{"id": "181918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181918", "title": "Bernard of Chartres", "text": "Bernard of Chartres\n\nBernard of Chartres (; died after 1124) was a twelfth-century French Neo-Platonist philosopher, scholar, and administrator.\n\nThe date and place of his birth are unknown. He was believed to have been the elder brother of Thierry of Chartres and to be of Breton origin, but research has shown that this is unlikely. He is recorded at the cathedral school of Chartres by 1115 and was chancellor until 1124. There is no proof that he was still alive after 1124.\n\nGilbert de la Porrée and William of Conches were students of his, and some information about his work comes through their writings, as well as the writings of John of Salisbury. According to John of Salisbury, Bernard composed a prose treatise \"De expositione Porphyrii\", a metrical treatise on the same subject, a moral poem on education, and probably a fourth work in which he sought to reconcile Plato with Aristotle. Fragments of these treatises are to be found in John's \"Metalogicon\" (IV, 35) and \"Policraticus\" (VII, 3). Hauréau confounds Bernard of Chartres with Bernard Silvestris, and assigns to the former works which are to be ascribed to the latter.\n\nThe earliest attribution of the phrase \"standing on the shoulders of giants\" is to Bernard (by John of Salisbury):\n\nBernard, in common with others of his school, devoted more attention to the study of the \"Timaeus\" and the works of the Neo-Platonists than to the study of Aristotle's dialectical treatises and the commentaries of Boethius. Consequently, he not only discussed the problem of universals (distinguishing between the abstract, the process, and the concrete—exemplified, for instance, by the Latin words \"albedo\", \"albet\", and \"album\") but also occupied himself with problems of metaphysics and cosmology.\n\nAccording to Bernard, there are three categories of reality: God, matter, and idea. God is supreme reality. Matter was brought out of nothingness by God's creative act and is the element which, in union with Ideas, constitutes the world of sensible things. Ideas are the prototypes by means of which the world was from all eternity present to the Divine Mind; they constitute the world of Providence (\"in qua omnia semel et simul fecit Deus\"), and are eternal but not coeternal with God. According to John of Salisbury, Bernard also taught that there exist native forms—copies of the Ideas created with matter—which are alone united with matter. It is difficult, however, to determine what was Bernard's doctrine on this point. It is sufficient to note that he reproduced in his metaphysical doctrines many of the characteristic traits of Platonism and Neo-Platonism: the intellect as the habitat of Ideas, the world-soul, eternal matter, matter as the source of imperfection, etc.\n\nBernard argued that matter, although caused by God, existed from all eternity. In the beginning, before its union with the Ideas, it was in a chaotic condition. It was by means of the native forms, which penetrate matter, that distinction, order, regularity, and number were introduced into the universe.\n\nPaul Edward Dutton has shown that a set of anonymous glosses on Plato's \"Timaeus\" must be attributed to Bernard. These glosses edited by Dutton are Bernard's only extant work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13617460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13617460", "title": "Biblical harmony", "text": "Biblical harmony\n\nA Biblical harmony is a hermeneutic method of analyzing parallel and often disparate accounts within the Bible. They are used in attempts to resolve apparent conflicts in the text, and demonstrate that together they form a consistent text. This will often take the form of a chart or table showing the harmony among the books of the Bible. Many Study Bibles, such as the MacArthur Study Bible, contain such harmonies. They are helpful, for instance, for finding parallel verses among the three Synoptic Gospels or within the Books of Kings and the Books of Chronicles. Gospel harmonies, which attempt to compile the four canonical gospels into a single account, are a common kind of harmony.\n\n"}
{"id": "49653195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49653195", "title": "Centre for Research in Reasoning, Argumentation, and Rhetoric", "text": "Centre for Research in Reasoning, Argumentation, and Rhetoric\n\nThe Centre for Research in Reasoning, Argumentation, and Rhetoric (CRRAR) is an interdisciplinary research group within the University of Windsor, Canada, which supports research in the fields of argumentation, informal logic, and rhetoric. Notable members include the widely published argumentation theorist Douglas Walton, and early founders of the informal logic field Ralph Johnson and J. Anthony Blair.\n\nMembers of the centre collaborate with local and international projects related to argumentation and informal logic, including the Ontario Society for the Study of Argumentation (OSSA), the International Society for the Study of Argumentation (ISSA), and the Association for Informal Logic and Critical Thinking (AILACT).\n\n"}
{"id": "1557574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1557574", "title": "Conservation genetics", "text": "Conservation genetics\n\nConservation genetics is an interdisciplinary subfield of Population Genetics that aims to understand the dynamics of genes in populations principally to avoid extinction. Therefore, it applies genetic methods to the conservation and restoration of biodiversity. Researchers involved in conservation genetics come from a variety of fields including population genetics, molecular ecology, biology, evolutionary biology, and systematics. Genetic diversity is one of the three fundamental levels of biodiversity, so it is directly important in conservation. Genetic variability influences both the health and long-term survival of populations because decreased genetic diversity has been associated with reduced fitness, such as high juvenile mortality, diminished population growth, reduced immunity, and ultimately, higher extinction risk.\n\nGenetic diversity is the variability of genes in a species. A number of means can express the level of genetic diversity: observed heterozygosity, expected heterozygosity, the mean number of alleles per locus, or the percentage of polymorphic loci.\n\nGenetic diversity determines the potential fitness of a population and ultimately its long-term persistence, because genes encode phenotypic information. Extinction risk has been associated with low genetic diversity because several researchers have documented reduced fitness in populations with low genetic diversity. For example, low genetic diversity as low heterozigosity has been associated with low juvenile survival, reduced population growth, low body size, diminished adult lifespan.\n\nThe importance of genetic diversity has many reasons. For example, one can consider the probability of within any given population that at least one individual or a potential reproductive pair have the genetic composition encoding a phenotype capable of survival an environment event. If l the individuals are nearly identical, if new pressures (such as environmental disasters) occur, a population with high genetic diversity has a greater chance of having at least some individuals with a genetic makeup that allows them to survive, or if genetic diversity is very low, none of the individuals in a population may have the characteristics needed to cope with the new environmental conditions. Such a population could be suddenly wiped out.\n\nThe genetic diversity of a species is always open to change. No matter how many variants of a gene are present in a population today, only the variants that survive in the next generation can contribute to species diversity in the future. Once gene variants are lost, they cannot be recovered.\n\n\nSpecific genetic techniques are used to assess the genomes of a species regarding specific conservation issues as well as general population structure. This analysis can be done in two ways, with current DNA of individuals or historic DNA.\n\nTechniques for analysing the differences between individuals and populations include\n\n\nThese different techniques focus on different variable areas of the genomes within animals and plants. The specific information that is required determines which techniques are used and which parts of the genome are analysed. For example, mitochondrial DNA in animals has a high substitution rate, which makes it useful for identifying differences between individuals. However, it is only inherited in the female line, and the mitochondrial genome is relatively small. In plants, the mitochondrial DNA has very high rates of structural mutations, so is rarely used for genetic markers, as the chloroplast genome can be used instead. Other sites in the genome that are subject to high mutation rates such as the major histocompatibility complex, and the microsatellites and minisatellites are also frequently used.\n\nThese techniques can provide information on long-term conservation of genetic diversity and expound demographic and ecological matters such as taxonomy.\n\nAnother technique is using historic DNA for genetic analysis. Historic DNA is important because it allows geneticists to understand how species reacted to changes to conditions in the past. This is a key to understanding the reactions of similar species in the future.\n\nTechniques using historic DNA include looking at preserved remains found in museums and caves. Museums are used because there is a wide range of species that are available to scientists all over the world. The problem with museums is that, historical perspectives are important because understanding how species reacted to changes in conditions in the past is a key to understanding reactions of similar species in the future. Evidence found in caves provides a longer perspective and does not disturb the animals.\n\nAnother technique that relies on specific genetics of an individual is noninvasive monitoring, which uses extracted DNA from organic material that an individual leaves behind, such as a feather. This too avoids disrupting the animals and can provide information about the sex, movement, kinship and diet of an individual.\n\nOther more general techniques can be used to correct genetic factors that lead to extinction and risk of extinction. For example, when minimizing inbreeding and increasing genetic variation multiple steps can be taken. Increasing heterozygosity through immigration, increasing the generational interval through cryopreservation or breeding from older animals, and increasing the effective population size through equalization of family size all helps minimize inbreeding and its effects. Deleterious alleles arise through mutation, however certain recessive ones can become more prevalent due to inbreeding. Deleterious mutations that arise from inbreeding can be removed by purging, or natural selection. Populations raised in captivity with the intent of being reintroduced in the wild suffer from adaptations to captivity.\n\nInbreeding depression, loss of genetic diversity, and genetic adaptation to captivity are disadvantageous in the wild, and many of these issues can be dealt with through the aforementioned techniques aimed at increasing heterozygosity. In addition creating a captive environment that closely resembles the wild and fragmenting the populations so there is less response to selection also help reduce adaptation to captivity.\n\nSolutions to minimize the factors that lead to extinction and risk of extinction often overlap because the factors themselves overlap. For example, deleterious mutations are added to populations through mutation, however the deleterious mutations conservation biologists are concerned with are ones that are brought about by inbreeding, because those are the ones that can be taken care of by reducing inbreeding. Here the techniques to reduce inbreeding also help decrease the accumulation of deleterious mutations.\n\nThese techniques have wide ranging applications. One application of these specific molecular techniques is in defining species and sub-species of salmonids. Hybridization is an especially important issue in salmonids and this has wide ranging conservation, political, social and economic implications. In Cutthroat Trout mtDNA and alloenzyme analysis, hybridization between native and non-native species was shown to be one of the major factors contributing to the decline in their populations. This led to efforts to remove some hybridized populations so native populations could breed more readily. Cases like these impact everything from the economy of local fishermen to larger companies, such as timber. Specific molecular techniques led to a closer analysis of taxonomic relationships, which is one factor that can lead to extinctions if unclear.\n\nNew technology in conservation genetics has many implications for the future of conservation biology. At the molecular level, new technologies are advancing. Some of these techniques include the analysis of minisatellites and MHC. These molecular techniques have wider effects from clarifying taxonomic relationships, as in the previous example, to determining the best individuals to reintroduce to a population for recovery by determining kinship. These effects then have consequences that reach even further. Conservation of species has implications for humans in the economic, social, and political realms. In the biological realm increased genotypic diversity has been shown to help ecosystem recovery, as seen in a community of grasses which was able to resist disturbance to grazing geese through greater genotypic diversity. Because species diversity increases ecosystem function, increasing biodiversity through new conservation genetic techniques has wider reaching effects than before.\n\nA short list of studies a conservation geneticist may research include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55487546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55487546", "title": "Creative peacebuilding (visual arts)", "text": "Creative peacebuilding (visual arts)\n\nIn the visual arts, creative peacebuilding offers a creative means to bring about peace within conflicted contexts. The use of the visual arts for effective peacebuilding emphasizes a consideration of the nature of the context where the tool is applied by not necessarily following a set format or paradigm. It reflects the potential to transcend traditional ideas, rules, patterns, relationships, or the like, to create meaningful new ideas, forms, methods, and interpretations geared towards establishing and sustaining peace.\n\nGenerally speaking, \"the arts\" refers to the theory and the physical expressions of creativity found in human societies and cultures. The major constituents of the arts include literature (poetry, novels, short stories, and epic poetry), performing arts (music, dance, and theatre), and the visual arts, the last of which includes creations that can be seen. According to the Merriam-Webster dictionary, the term \"creative\" describes a quality of something created rather than imitated. In light of this, creative peacebuilding is a broad term for creative therapeutic strategies to create peace, within individuals, groups, and societies in conflict situations. Although used primarily to overcome violence, creative peacebuilding is also a preventative measure explored to establish stronger foundations of peaceful initiatives, especially when used with children.\n\nPeacebuilding is a process that facilitates the establishment of sustainable peace by preventing the recurrence of violence through different approaches which address the root causes and effects of conflict. Peacebuilding is an alternative to violence through reconciliation, and economic and social transformation.\n\nThe term \"peacebuilding\" has been widely used since 1992, when it was used by the former United Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in his \"An Agenda for Peace\". Boutros-Ghali described peacebuilding as \"action to identify and support structures, which will tend to strengthen and solidify peace in order to avoid a relapse into conflict.\"\n\nAccording to Johan Galtung, peacebuilding is the process of creating self-supporting structures that \"remove causes of wars and offer alternatives to war in situations where wars might occur.\" For John Paul Lederach, peacebuilding is a comprehensive concept that encompasses, generates, and sustains the full array of processes, approaches, and stages needed to transform conflict toward more sustainable, peaceful relationships, which involves a wide range of activities. It has a diverse range of interaction and involves various stakeholders in various levels within the spectrum of governance and development.\n\nIf visual arts are artistic expressions that can be seen in their diversity rather than heard, then the relationship between visual arts and creative peacebuilding is reflected in the felt experience of creative peacebuilding in conflict situations. Visual arts are created to stimulate visual experiences. They are employed to help individuals cope with their feelings and treat post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nCreative peacebuilding through the visual arts is a process that facilitates the establishments of sustainable peace by preventing recurrence of violence, addresses the root causes, healing and effects of conflict, and offer alternatives to violence through reconciliation, economic and social transformation with the use of photography, film, painting, and the like. Jolyon Mitchell argues that the visual arts can both encourage peacebuilding and instigating violence. This is true of various forms of visual arts, ranging from posters, cartoons, and stained glass, to websites, radio, and films by reflecting on examples from around the world.\n\nPhotography is the science and art of creating durable images with light or other electromagnetic radiation, either through the use of an image sensor or chemical means of a light-sensitive. Susan Sontag opines that a photographer has the ability to create a reality by examining pictures. Photography is one of the forms of new media that changes perceptions and changes the structure of society. The objectivity and subjectivity of a photograph is sometimes problematic. Sontag argues, \"To photograph is to appropriate the thing photographed. It means putting one's self into a certain relation to the world that feels like knowledge, and therefore like power.\" Photographers decide what to photograph, what elements to exclude, and what angle to frame the photo, and these factors may reflect a particular socio-historical context.\n\nAlong these lines, it can be argued that photography is a subjective form of representation. The visual quality of photographic images is particularly effective in grabbing, maintaining, and retaining viewers' attention. It is commonly stated that a picture is worth a thousand words. In the context of creative peacebuilding, the visual qualities of photographic images provide specific benefits. The power of an image to establish an objective work is the sole judge of the message the viewer's read. Subjective truth makes it an effective tool for peacebuilding. Images span generations, languages, and cultural differences. Different people can easily engage with the characters or situations presented to them, regardless of their background. Pictures are both cognitively and emotionally compelling – a process that is essential to peacebuilding mechanism. The power of image is also condition by its design and purpose. Furthermore, photographic contents and images are employed to negotiate issues of the past in creative ways highlighting the incidents, experiences, emotions, and themes thus fostering alternative imagination of the future that will help to sustain peace.\n\nPhotography promotes freedom of participation, access, and engagement, which is within the control of the viewer, and also opens up process for peacebuilding. At their discretion and their pace, the viewer engages and reflects on their experiences, while seeing and dwelling in the experience of others. Such an experience often creates the need to revisit the picture.\n\nJolyon Mitchell has written about how websites have been used as a medium for promoting peace on the screen. Through the web, the world has become a global village. Therefore, websites can be created to facilitate peacebuilding. It offers a virtual location whereby individuals can login, get information, take action, and post and share issues to aid in peacebuilding.\n"}
{"id": "46758635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46758635", "title": "Dag Østerberg", "text": "Dag Østerberg\n\nDag Østerberg (9 November 1938 – 22 February 2017) was a Norwegian sociologist, philosopher and musicologist.\n\nHe was born in Trondheim to police officer Erling Østerberg and Jørgine Sofie Kleven. He was a central contributor to the so-called positivism debate in the 1960s and 1970s. From 1981 to 1991 he was appointed professor in sociology at the University of Oslo. Among his works are \"Metasosiologisk Essay\" from 1963, \"Makt og materiell\" from 1971, and a biography of Jean-Paul Sartre from 1993. His 1966 work \" Forståelsesformer. Et filosofisk bidrag\" (Forms of Understanding: A Philosophical Contribution) was selected for the Norwegian Sociology Canon in 2009–2011.\n"}
{"id": "6870034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6870034", "title": "Dawkins' God", "text": "Dawkins' God\n\nDawkins' God: Genes, Memes, and the Meaning of Life is a book by Alister McGrath, a theologian who is currently Professor of Historical Theology at Oxford University. The book, published in 2004, with a 2nd ed. in 2015, aims to refute claims about religion made by another well-known professor at Oxford, Richard Dawkins. McGrath's book does not seek to demonstrate how Dawkins’ claims differ from Christianity, rather, it argues that Dawkins' arguments fall far short of the logical and evidence-based reasoning that Dawkins himself espouses.\n\nMcGrath begins with an overview of evolutionary biology and Darwinist theory. He then presents Dawkins’ view that the current state of scientific knowledge should lead a rational person to conclude that there is no God. McGrath argues that Dawkins fails to declare or defend several crucial assumptions or premises. McGrath also defends other conclusions in the book, including:\n\n\nMcGrath argues that Dawkins' rejection of faith is a straw man argument. According to McGrath, Dawkins’ definition that faith “means blind trust, in the absence of evidence” is not a Christian position. In contrast, argues McGrath, accepting Dawkins’ definition would require blind trust since he offers no evidence to support it. Rather, it is based upon what McGrath calls “an unstated and largely unexamined cluster of hidden non-scientific values and beliefs” (p. 92). McGrath then argues that Dawkins frequently violates the very tenets of evidence-based reasoning that Dawkins himself claims to uphold and use to dismiss all religious belief.\n\nAlso on page 92, McGrath states \"... Darwinism neither proves nor disproves the existence of God (unless, of course God is defined by his critics in precisely such a way...).\"\n\nIn \"Science\" the skeptic Michael Shermer, reviewing this book, says \"[McGrath's] defense of religious faith is a passionate and honorable one and he demonstrates that some of Dawkins's characterizations of religion are indeed overly simplistic or selective, but he never delivers an answer to the God question. The closest thing to an argument for God's existence I could find in the book is this: 'Why should God require an explanation at all? He might just be an \"ultimate,\"...one of those things we have to accept as given and is thus amenable to description, rather than explanation.' That may be, but like all other arguments made in favor of God's existence, this only works as a reason to believe \"if you already believe\". If you do not already believe, science cannot help you.\"\n\nIn response to the book in general, and to the accusation of being ignorant of Christian theology in particular, Richard Dawkins stated:\n\n"}
{"id": "1688162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1688162", "title": "Erga omnes", "text": "Erga omnes\n\nErga omnes is a Latin phrase which means \"towards all\" or \"towards everyone\". In legal terminology, \"erga omnes\" rights or obligations are owed \"toward all\". For instance, a property right is an \"erga omnes\" entitlement, and therefore enforceable against anybody infringing that right. An \"erga omnes\" right (a statutory right) can here be distinguished from a right based on contract, unenforceable except against the contracting party.\n\nIn international law, it has been used as a legal term describing obligations owed by states towards the community of states as a whole. An \"erga omnes\" obligation exists because of the universal and undeniable interest in the perpetuation of critical rights (and the prevention of their breach). Consequently, any state has the right to complain of a breach. Examples of erga omnes norms include piracy and genocide. The concept was recognized in the International Court of Justice's decision in the \"Barcelona Traction\" case [(Belgium v Spain) (Second Phase) ICJ Rep 1970 3 at paragraph 33]:… an essential distinction should be drawn between the obligations of a State towards the international community as a whole, and those arising vis-à-vis another State in the field of diplomatic protection. By their very nature, the former are the concern of all States. In view of the importance of the rights involved, all States can be held to have a legal interest in their protection; they are obligations erga omnes. [at 34] Such obligations derive, for example, in contemporary international law, from the outlawing of acts of aggression, and of genocide, as also from the principles and rules concerning the basic rights of the human person, including protection from slavery and racial discrimination. Some of the corresponding rights of protection have entered into the body of general international law . . . others are conferred by international instruments of a universal or quasi-universal character.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29794000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29794000", "title": "Evolution of eusociality", "text": "Evolution of eusociality\n\nEusociality evolved repeatedly in different orders of animals, particularly the Hymenoptera (the wasps, bees, and ants). This 'true sociality' in animals, in which sterile individuals work to further the reproductive success of others, is found in termites, ambrosia beetles, gall-dwelling aphids, thrips, marine sponge-dwelling shrimp (\"Synalpheus regalis\"), naked mole-rats (\"Heterocephalus glaber\"), and the insect order Hymenoptera (which includes bees, wasps, and ants). The fact that eusociality has evolved so often in the Hymenoptera (between 8 and 11 times), but remains rare throughout the rest of the animal kingdom, has made its evolution a topic of debate among evolutionary biologists. Eusocial organisms at first appear to behave in stark contrast with simple interpretations of Darwinian evolution: passing on one’s genes to the next generation, or fitness, is a central idea in evolutionary biology.\n\nCurrent theories propose that the evolution of eusociality occurred either due to kin selection, proposed by W. D. Hamilton, or by the competing theory of multilevel selection as proposed by E.O. Wilson and colleagues. No single trait or model is sufficient to explain the evolution of eusociality, and most likely the pathway to eusociality involved a combination of pre-conditions, ecological factors, and genetic influences.\n\nEusociality can be characterized by four main criteria: overlapping generations, cooperative brood care, philopatry, and reproductive altruism. Overlapping generations means that multiple generations live together, and that older offspring may help the parents raise their siblings. Cooperative brood care is when individuals other than the parents assist in raising the offspring through means such as food gathering and protection. Philopatry is when individuals remain living in their birthplace.\n\nThe final category, reproductive altruism, is the most divergent from other social orders. Altruism occurs when an individual performs a behavior that benefits a recipient in some way, but at the individual’s own expense. Reproductive altruism is one of the most extreme forms of altruism. This is when most members of the group give up their own breeding opportunities in order to participate in the reproductive success of other individuals. The individuals giving up their own reproductive success form a sterile caste of workers within the group. Each species that practices reproductive altruism is ruled by a queen, the only breeding female who is larger than the rest. The remainder of the society is composed of a few breeding males, sterile male and female workers, and the young.\n\nCharles Darwin considered the evolution of eusociality a major problem for his theory of natural selection. In \"The Origin of Species\", he described the existence of sterile worker castes in the social insects as \"the one special difficulty, which at first appeared to me insuperable and actually fatal to my whole theory\". In the next paragraph of his book, Darwin describes a solution. If the trait of sterility can be carried by some individuals without expression, and those individuals that do express sterility help reproductive relatives, the sterile trait can persist and evolve.\n\nDarwin was on the right track, except sterility is not a characteristic shared among all eusocial animals. Sterile workers of many eusocial species are not actually physiologically sterile. Male workers can still produce sperm, and female workers sometimes lay eggs, and in some species, become the new queen if the old one dies (observed in Hymenoptera, termites, and shrimp).\n\nThis insight led to inclusive fitness and kin selection becoming important theories during the 20th century to help explain eusociality. Inclusive fitness is described as a combination of one's own reproductive success and the reproductive success of others that share similar genes. Animals may increase their inclusive fitness through kin selection. Kin selection is when individuals help close relatives with their reproduction process, seemingly because relatives will propagate some of the individual's own genes. Kin selection follows Hamilton's Rule, which suggests that if the benefit of a behavior to a recipient, taking into account the genetic relatedness of the recipient to the altruist, outweighs the costs of the behavior to the altruist, then it is in the altruist's genetic advantage to perform the altruistic behavior.\n\nWilliam D. Hamilton proposed that eusociality arose in social Hymenoptera by kin selection because of their interesting genetic sex determination trait of haplodiploidy. Because males are produced by parthenogenesis (they come from unfertilized eggs and thus only have one set of chromosomes), and females are produced from fertilized eggs, sisters from a singly-mated mother share 75% of their genes, whereas mothers share only 50% of their genes with their offspring. Thus, sisters will propagate their own genes more by helping their mothers to raise more sisters, than to leave the nest and raise their own daughters.\n\nThough Hamilton's argument appears to work well for Hymenoptera, it excludes diploid eusocial organisms (inter-sibling relatedness ≤ parent-offspring relatedness = 0.5). Even in haplodiploid systems, the average relatedness between sisters falls off rapidly when a queen mates with multiple males (r=0.5 for 2 mates, and even lower for more). Moreover, males share only 25% of their sisters' genes, and, in cases of equal sex ratios, females are related to their siblings on average by 0.5 which is no better than raising their own offspring. However, despite the shortcomings of the haplodiploidy hypothesis, it is still considered to have some importance. For example, many bees have female-biased sex ratios and/or invest less in or kill males. Analysis has shown that in Hymenoptera, the ancestral female was monogamous in each of the eight independent cases where eusociality evolved. This indicates that the high relatedness between sisters favored the evolution of eusociality during the initial stages on several occasions. This helps explain the abundance of eusocial genera within the order Hymenoptera, including three separate origins within halcitid bees alone.\n\nThe monogamy hypothesis, formulated by Jacobus Boomsma in 2007, is currently the leading hypothesis concerning the initial evolution of eusociality in the Hymenoptera. It uses Hamilton's kin selection approach in a way that applies to both haploid and diploid organisms. If a queen is lifetime-strictly monogamous - in other words, she mates with only one individual during her entire life - her progeny will be equally related to their siblings and to their own offspring (r=0.5 in both cases - this is an average of sisters [0.75] and brothers [0.25]). Thus, natural selection will favor cooperation in any situation where it's more efficient to raise siblings than offspring, and this could start paving a path towards eusociality. This higher efficiency becomes especially pronounced after group living evolves.\n\nIn many monogamous animals, an individual's death prompts its partner to look for a new mate, which would affect relatedness and hinder the evolution of eusociality: workers would be much more related to their offspring than their siblings. However, many Hymenoptera have a form of lifetime monogamy in which the queen mates with a single male, who then dies before colony founding. This seems to be the ancestral state in all Hymenopteran lineages that have evolved eusociality. Most termites also have a mating system in which a reproductive female (the queen) commits to a single male for life (the king), and this pattern seems to be ancestral in termites. Lastly, strict monogamy facilitated eusociality in the sponge-dwelling shrimp.\n\nIn species where philopatry predominates, and there are few emigrants to the nest, intense inbreeding can occur, as is the case in eusocial species. Inbreeding can mimic and even surpass the effects of haplodiploidy. Siblings may actually share greater than 75% of their genes. Like in haplodiploidy kin selection, the individuals can propagate their own genes more through the promotion of more siblings, rather than their own offspring. For example, the need for dispersal and aggregation of multiclonal groups may have helped to drive the evolution of eusociality in aphids.\n\nIn termites, two additional hypotheses have been proposed. The first is the Chromosomal Linkage Hypothesis, where much of the termite genome is sex-linked. This makes sisters related somewhat above 50%, and brothers somewhat above 50%, but brother-sister relatedness less than 50%. Termite workers might then bias their cooperative brood care towards their own sex. This hypothesis also mimics the effects of haplodiploidy, but proposes that males would help raise only the queen's male offspring, while females would only care for the queen's female offspring.\n\nThe symbiont hypothesis in termites is quite different from the others. With each molt, termites lose the lining of their hindgut and the subsequent bacteria and protozoa that colonize their guts for cellulose digestion. They depend on interactions with other termites for their gut to be recolonized, thus forcing them to become social. This could be a precursor, or pre-condition for why eusociality evolved in termites.\n\nAlthough the symbiont hypothesis serves as a pre-condition for termites to evolve into eusocial societies, scientists have found two crucial pre-conditions for the evolution of eusociality across all species. These include: 1. Altricial offspring (require large amounts of parental care to reach maturity); 2. Low reproductive success rates of solitary pairs that attempt to reproduce. These pre-conditions led to the two lifestyle characteristics that are observed in all eusocial species: nest building and extensive parental care.\n\nEcological factors were also probably a precursor to eusociality. For example, the sponge-dwelling shrimp depend upon the sponge's feeding current for food, termites depend upon dead, decaying wood, and naked mole rats depend upon tubers in the ground. Each of these resources has patchy distributions throughout the environments of these animals. This means there is a high cost to dispersing (individual may not find another source before it starves), and these resources must be defended for the group to survive. These requirements make it a necessity to have high social order for the survival of the group.\n\nGenetic constraints may have influenced the evolution of eusociality. The genome structure of the order Hymenoptera has been found to have the highest recombination rates of any other groups in Animalia. The eusocial genus \"Apis\", the honeybees, have the highest recombination rate in higher eukaryotes. Genes determining worker behavior and division of labor have been found in regions of the \"Apis\" genome with the highest rates of recombination and molecular evolution. These mechanisms are likely important to the evolution of eusociality because high recombination rates are associated with the creation of novel genes, upon which natural selection can act. This could have been important in other eusocial genera. Biased gene conversion rates are also higher in eusocial species. This could increase genotypic diversity, which could allow workers to meet the demands of a changing social structure more easily. Another hypothesis is that the lower overall genetic diversity as eusociality levels increase throughout the family \"Apidae\"is due to a decreased exposure to parasites and pathogens.\n\nEusociality appears to be maintained through manipulation of the sterile workers by the queen. The mechanisms for this include hormonal control through pheromones, restricting food to young in order to control their size, consumption of any eggs laid by females other than the queen, and behavioral dominance. In naked mole rats, this behavioral dominance occurs in the form of the queen facing the worker head-to-head, and shoving it throughout the tunnels of the naked mole rats' burrow for quite a distance.\n\nNowak, et al. (2010) outlines a path by which eusociality could evolve by means of multi-level (group) selection in five steps:\n\nNowak's paper, however, received major criticisms for erroneously separating inclusive fitness theory from \"standard natural selection\". Over 150 authors replied arguing that Nowak, et al. misrepresent 40 years of empirical literature.\n"}
{"id": "4526304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4526304", "title": "Faculty of Philosophy, University of Cambridge", "text": "Faculty of Philosophy, University of Cambridge\n\nThe University of Cambridge was the birthplace of the 'Analytical' School of Philosophy in the early 20th century. The department is located in the Raised Faculty Building on the Sidgwick Site and is part of the Cambridge School of Arts and Humanities. The Faculty achieved the best possible results from The Times 2004 and the QAA Subject Review 2001 (24/24). It is ranked first in the UK by the Guardian.\n\nIn 1848 under the direction of William Whewell, two new honour examinations, one in natural sciences (relating to physical science), the other in moral sciences (in the sense of mores or social sciences) were introduced. Moral Sciences was interdisciplinary and included five subjects: moral philosophy, political economy, modern history, general jurisprudence and the laws of England. Moral Sciences was not popular as it did not lead to a degree, and in 1860 no candidates took the examinations.\n\nIn 1861 following recommendations made by John Grote and Joseph Mayor, the Senate upgraded the status of Moral Sciences to become a three-year Undergraduate honours course in its own right. The Board of Moral Sciences Studies (a precursor to the Faculty) was also set up. Law became a separate subject and was replaced on the Moral Sciences Tripos by Mental philosophy (psychology).\n\nIn 1867 the Board of Moral Sciences Studies recommended that History should also be omitted from the tripos. This was passed by the Council of the Senate, leaving four subjects: moral philosophy, logic, economics and psychology. At this time, J.N. Keynes and James Ward graduated with honours in Moral Sciences and its reputation grew. The increase in quality and to a lesser extent, in quantity, was assisted by the expansion of the teaching staff assisting the two Moral Sciences professors (Political Economy and Moral Philosophy). From the late 1860s a number of College lecturers in the Moral Sciences were appointed from St. John's, Trinity, Caius, and St. Catharine’s who included Henry Sidgwick, Joseph Mayor, John Venn, Thomas Woodhouse Levin, and Alfred Marshall.\n\nDue to the efforts of Alfred Marshall, Economics was also dropped from the Moral Sciences Tripos, becoming a separate subject in 1903. This left a syllabus of analytic philosophy. Although Psychology remained nominally part of the Moral Sciences Tripos until after the Second World War, in practice it was an increasingly separate subject in the early part of the twentieth century.\n\nIn the first half of the twentieth century Bertrand Russell, G.E. Moore, and Ludwig Wittgenstein were all at work in Cambridge. They were largely responsible for the rise of modern logic and the methods and results of analytic philosophy. Moral sciences was renamed philosophy in 1970.\n\nConstance Maynard was the first woman to read Moral Sciences at Cambridge, completing her studies in 1875.\n\nThe list includes both and also research-active philosophers who play a significant role in the faculty's intellectual life.\n\n\nVarious philosophers have been Knightbridge Professor of Philosophy. The Knightbridge Chair was founded in 1683 and is one of the oldest established chairs in the university.\n\nPhilosophers who either worked or studied in Cambridge—including some Knightbridge Professors—include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7974955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7974955", "title": "Francisco Zumel", "text": "Francisco Zumel\n\nFrancisco Zumel (ca. 1540-1607) was a Spanish philosopher and ecclesiastic. He was superior general of the Mercedarian Order and professor of physics and moral philosophy at the University of Salamanca. He was a Thomist and is most remembered for his polemical writings against the \"molinistas\", the followers of Luis Molina. \n\nHis works were written in Latin and some of them remain in the Vatican Library, and thus far unpublished. \n\n"}
{"id": "11592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11592", "title": "Freeware", "text": "Freeware\n\nFreeware is software that is available for use at no monetary cost. In other words, while freeware may be used without payment it is most often proprietary software, and usually modification, re-distribution or reverse-engineering without the author's permission is prohibited. Two historic examples of freeware include Skype and Adobe Acrobat Reader. There is no agreed set of rights or a license or an EULA which would define \"freeware\" unambiguously; every freeware publisher defines their own rules for their freeware. For instance, redistribution of freeware by third-parties is often permitted but there is a significant portion of freeware which prohibits redistribution. \n\nFreeware, although itself free of charge, may be intended to benefit its producer, e.g. by encouraging sales of a more capable version (\"Freemium\" or Shareware business model). The source code of freeware is typically not available, unlike free and open-source software which are also often distributed free of charge.\n\nThe term \"freeware\" was coined in 1982 by Andrew Fluegelman when he wanted to sell a communications program named PC-Talk that he had created but for which he did not wish to use commercial distribution channels. Fluegelman actually distributed PC-Talk via a process now referred to as shareware, no longer called freeware.\n\nThe term \"freeware\" was used often in the 1980s and 1990s for programs released without source code.\n\nSoftware classified as freeware may be used without payment and is typically either fully functional for an unlimited time, or has limited functionality, with a more capable version available commercially or as shareware. In contrast to what the FSF calls free software, the author usually restricts the rights of the user to use, copy, distribute, modify, make derivative works, or reverse-engineer the software. The software license may impose various additional restrictions on the type of use, e.g. only for personal use, private use, individual use, non-profit use, non-commercial use, academic use, educational use, use in charity or humanitarian organizations, non-military use, use by public authorities or various other combinations of these type of restrictions. For instance, the license may be \"free for private, non-commercial use\". The software license may also impose various other restrictions, such as restricted use over a network, restricted use on a server, restricted use in a combination with some types of other software or with some hardware devices, prohibited distribution over the Internet other than linking to author's website, restricted distribution without author's consent, restricted number of copies, etc. Restrictions may be required by the licence, or enforced by the software (e.g., not usable over a network).\n\nThe U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) defines \"open source software\" (i.e., free software or free and open-source software), as distinct from \"freeware\" or \"shareware\"; it is software where \"the Government does not have access to the original source code\". The \"free\" in \"freeware\" refers to the price of the software, which is typically proprietary and distributed without source code. By contrast, the \"free\" in \"free software\" refers to freedoms granted users under the software license (for example, to run the program for any purpose, modify and redistribute the program to others), and such software may be sold at a price.\n\nAccording to the Free Software Foundation (FSF), \"freeware\" is a loosely defined category and it has no clear accepted definition, although FSF asks that free software (libre; unrestricted and with source code available) should not be called freeware.\nIn contrast the Oxford English Dictionary simply characterizes freeware as being \"available free of charge (sometimes with the suggestion that users should make a donation to the provider)\".\n\nSome freeware products are released alongside paid versions that either have more features or less restrictive licensing terms. This approach is known as freemium (\"free\" + \"premium\"), since the free version is intended as a promotion for the premium version. The two often share a code base, using a compiler flag to determine which is produced. For example, BBEdit has a BBEdit Lite edition which has fewer features. XnView is available free of charge for personal use but must be licensed for commercial use. The free version may be advertising supported, as was the case with the DivX.\n\nAd-supported software and free registerware also bear resemblances to freeware. Ad-supported software does not ask for payment for a license, but displays advertising to either compensate for development costs or as a means of income. Registerware forces the user to subscribe with the publisher before being able to use the product. While commercial products may require registration to ensure licensed use, free registerware do not.\n\nThe Creative Commons offer licenses, applicable to all by copyright governed works including software, which allow a developer to define \"freeware\" in a legal safe and internationally law domains respecting way. The typical freeware use case \"share\" can be further refined with Creative Commons restriction clauses like non-commerciality (CC BY-NC) or no-derivatives (CC BY-ND), see description of licenses. There are , for instance The White Chamber, Mari0 or Assault Cube, all freeware by being CC BY-NC-SA licensed: free sharing allowed, selling not.\n\nFreeware cannot economically rely on commercial promotion. In May 2015 advertising freeware on Google AdWords was restricted to \"authoritative source\"[s]. Thus web sites and blogs are the primary resource for information on which freeware is available, useful, and is not malware. However, there are also many computer magazines or newspapers that provide ratings for freeware and include compact discs or other storage media containing freeware. Freeware is also often bundled with other products such as digital cameras or scanners.\n\nFreeware has been criticized as \"unsustainable\" because it requires a single entity to be responsible for updating and enhancing the product, which is then given away without charge. Other freeware projects are simply released as one-off programs with no promise or expectation of further development. These may include source code, as does free software, so that users can make any required or desired changes themselves, but this code remains subject to the license of the compiled executable and does not constitute free software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34271636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34271636", "title": "Game-Maker", "text": "Game-Maker\n\nGame-Maker (aka RSD Game-Maker) is an MS-DOS-based suite of game design tools, accompanied by demonstration games, produced between 1991 and 1995 by the Amherst, New Hampshire based Recreational Software Designs and sold through direct mail in the US by KD Software. Game-Maker also was sold under various names by licensed distributors in the UK, Korea, and other territories including Captain GameMaker (Screen Entertainment, UK) and Create Your Own Games With GameMaker! (Microforum, Canada). Game-Maker is notable as one of the first complete game design packages for DOS-based PCs, for its fully mouse-driven graphical interface, and for its early support for VGA graphics, Sound Blaster sound, and full-screen four-way scrolling.\n\nPrimary distribution for Game-Maker was through advertisements in the back of PC and game magazines such as \"Computer Gaming World\" and \"VideoGames & Computer Entertainment\". At release Game-Maker was priced at $89, and shipped on 5.25\" diskette with seven or eight demonstration or tutorial games. Later releases were less expensive, and shipped on CD-ROM with dozens of sample games and a large selection of extra tools and resources.\n\nAfter some consultation with the user base, on July 12, 2014 original coder Andy Stone released the Game-Maker 3.0 source code on GitHub, under the MIT license.\n\nGame-Maker consists of a text-mode wrapper, tying together a collection of WYSIWYG design tools. The tools produce proprietary resources that are compiled together and parsed with RSD's custom XFERPLAY game engine. The design tools include:\n\n\nGame-Maker involves no scripting language; all design tools use a mouse-driven 320x200 VGA display, with a shared logic and visual theme. Users draw background tiles pixel by pixel in an enlarged window, and can pull tiles from the palette to arrange in a \"sandbox\" area. A further menu allows users to set physical properties—solidity, gravity, animation, various counter values—for each block. The user draws maps by pulling blocks from the palette and painting with them using simple paintbrush, line, shape, and fill tools.\n\nCharacters can have up to 15 keyboard commands, plus idle, death, and injury animations. They can hold an inventory and money, earn score, gain and lose hit points and lives, and track several counters—often used for keys and similar functions. Monsters have simple animations and movements, and can also change behavior in response to the player.\n\nPlayable games can be exported complete with a portable version of the XFERPLAY engine, sound drivers, and configuration files. All games record high scores and (in later versions) attract mode replays. All games also feature instant save and load, and support standard PC joysticks.\n\nIn later versions of the software, games also can incorporate several outside formats including ASCII text data, CompuServe .GIF files, and Autodesk Animator .FLI animations into multimedia presentations during menus and between levels. Although Game-Maker includes no tools for developing these files, the formats are standardized enough to allow the user a choice of standalone utilities. In addition, image data produced with outside programs such as Deluxe Paint is easily imported and split into background tiles or sprites.\n\nThrough RSD's proprietary XFERPLAY engine, all Game-Maker games run in 256-color full-screen VGA, at an eccentric 312x196 resolution (switching to the more standard 320x200 for menu screens). Game-Maker games are also distinguished by their eccentric 20x20 tile and sprite size (as opposed to the more standard 8x8 or 16/16 dimensions), populating a standard 100x100 tile (2000x2000 pixel) map size. Transition between scenes is achieved through a slow fade to or from black.\n\nAll games share a common interface, with a menu screen offering six options: Play, Read Instructions, Read Storyline, See Credits, See Highest Scores, and Quit. Pressing F2 brings up an inventory screen, while F5 and F6 bring up save and load screens. Although most of these menus can be customized with .GIF backgrounds, their basic layout, labeling, and content are constant across all games.\n\nAll games track player score, and display a high score table upon the game's end (whether through completion or failure). Later versions of Game-Maker allow multimedia sequences between levels, including .GIF images, .FLI animations, and ASCII text files.\n\nThe engine allows one player at a time, with the screen automatically scrolling in any of the four cardinal directions when the character comes within 1/3 screen width or height of the screen's edge. All Game-Maker games lack an on-screen display (of hit points, score, lives, etc.), though much of this information can be tracked in the inventory screen.\n\nGame-Maker developed from a series of modification tools for a top-down competitive maze game called \"Labyrinth\", designed by Andrew Stone in January 1991. Although the engine is different, \"Labyrinth\" shared code and file formats with the later XFERPLAY engine and graphical resources with several later first-party games.\n\nWhereas \"Labyrinth\" grew out of Andrew's interest in \"NetHack\" and Piers Anthony novels, one of Andrew's first goals was to expand his tools and engine to permit side-scrolling action-adventure games. \"In fact, making something like \"Metroid\" was sort of the bar I set myself for version 1.0. Which is why I added the secret passage features, and gravity, early on.\"\n\nIn July 1991 Andrew and his father G. Oliver Stone incorporated Recreational Software Designs to pursue Game-Maker as a business venture—with Oliver as president and Andrew as CEO. Through Oliver's business acumen RSD made deals with KD Software and GameLynk to distribute Game-Maker and host its online community. Through 1992-1994 RSD placed a series of full-sized ads (and some smaller sizes) in major computer magazines, and in 1994 they sub-leased a booth at the Consumer Electronics Show in Chicago.\n\nAt the time of Game-Maker's release the software was revolutionary both in concept and technology; although there were earlier game creation systems, Game-Maker was the first general-purpose graphical GCS for the dominant DOS/Windows-based PC. Throughout the design process Andrew was adamant that Game-Maker's tools remain entirely visual, involving absolutely no programming from the end user. Its engine also supported full-screen four-way VGA scrolling, and later full-screen double buffered redraws, well before these were the standard.\n\nSeveral updates followed over the next three years, adding Sound Blaster support, improving the design interface, and refining the game engine—yet many features kept being pushed back. Although his brother Oliver Jr. spent a summer on the project, and wrote the code for the sound and Monster editor, Andrew handled the bulk of the coding and updates — a task that, thanks to the lack of standardized drivers or libraries at that time, became all-encompassing and difficult to maintain. Over the software's lifetime Andrew found himself so \"waylaid by video driver and [engine] problems\" that he was unable to focus as much as he wanted on adding and refining features.\n\nBy the mid-1990s the advent of 3D video cards and the introduction of Windows 95 meant that to keep up with the marketplace Game-Maker would need great changes both in concept and in coding. Furthermore the continued lack of standardization meant a large investment in coding ever more complicated drivers and libraries—work that would be thrown away as soon as standards were established. Despite plans for a radical professional-quality update, RSD ceased support for Game-Maker around 1995.\n\nIn a 2011 interview Andrew mused about Game-Maker, stating that by his own principles he was surprised he hadn't released the source code years earlier.\n\nLater, on July 1, 2014, Andrew posted to the Game-Maker Facebook page, asking for community input on releasing the code. On July 12 he posted the Game-Maker 3.0 source to GitHub, under the MIT license, suggesting that although people were free to use the code how they liked, \"if there is interest in preserving the old games you guys made then porting Game-Maker to modern OSes is the first step.\"\n\n\nDuring Game-Maker's lifetime, users could distribute their games through the Gamelynk (aka Night Owl, later Frontline) BBS in Kennebunkport, Maine or through the Game-Maker Exchange program — an infrequent mailing to registered users, compiling submitted games to a floppy disc with occasional commentary from RSD president G. Oliver Stone. \n\nRSD's initial terms of use were rather restrictive. To quote from a pamphlet titled \"Distributing Your GAME-MAKER Games\" and dated May 9, 1993:\n\nThe pamphlet goes on to detail standalone games, promotional games, and shareware and BBS distribution. For standalone games (which is to say, games that are meant as an end unto themselves), RSD asks a royalty of $500 for the first 200 games sold or distributed, then a small fee for each subsequent copy. The higher the number, the smaller the fee. For promotional software (distributed as part of a promotional kit), RSD asks $1000 for the first 1000 copies and then smaller fees for every copy up to 25,000. Beyond that, RSD asks no additional charge.\n\nShareware and BBS distribution is a curious case. Although RSD prohibits free distribution, the license does allow a loophole for shareware so long as the author requests the user to pay a minimum registration or license fee of $5.00, then makes a quarterly payment of 10% of all collected fees. These restrictions were rarely enforced; as a June 15, 1993 pamphlet titled \"Distributing Games\" suggests, freeware games were common and tolerated despite the license agreement:\n\nDespite the limitations on distribution, Game-Maker's design format is notoriously open. From its outset Game-Maker was designed as a collaborative tool, with the intent that users not only trade design tips but pick apart and freely sample from each other's work. A series of full-page magazine ads, run in the early 1990s, spends nearly as many words selling Game-Maker as a modification tool, along the lines of Galoob's Game Genie accessory, as it does describing the software's design features, promising that users can \"modify and enhance Game-Maker games\". \"Is a game too easy? Increase the speed. Too boring? Add danger, sounds and monsters. Too plain? Dress up the graphics, add animation. Too short? Add new levels.\"\n\nThis \"remix\" philosophy stems partly from the Stones' own collaborative family dynamic, and — as with the insistence on an entirely visual, code-free interface — partly from concern about overwhelming the end user. \"[W]e realized that it would be pretty hard for a ten to twelve-year-old to do it all himself so there were practical considerations.\"\n\nTo that end Game-Maker games are distributed as an unprotected bundle of resource files, both specialized (i.e., Game-Maker's unique graphic and animation formats) and common (including CompuServe .GIF, Creative .VOC, Autodesk .FLI, and ASCII text files), making it a simple task to identify and edit most Game-Maker games. The decision was a defiant one on the part of programmer G. Andrew Stone, who argued that any user concerned about protecting, rather than sharing, his work should take on that burden himself.\n\nAs it happens, one of the earliest games distributed with Game-Maker was GameLynk's \"Barracuda: Secret Mission 1\", a user-derived project that is most distinguished by its presentation whereby its file structure is hidden by LHarc compression and the portable Deluxe Paint Animation player is tacked onto the Game-Maker executable to provide intro and exit animations.\n\nThrough its history several aspects of Game-Maker's engine, design interface, and feature set have experienced scrutiny from its user base.\n\nOne of Game-Maker's more notorious qualities is its exclusive use of Creative's proprietary .VOC and .CMF sound and music formats, and its absence of integrated design tools for those formats (or recommendations as to external tools), leaving users to work out their own solutions — or often not.\n\nThe use of .CMF was a last-minute decision; Andy had been working on a .MOD-style tracker format, but development was indefinitely delayed. As a temporary measure his brother Ollie plugged in code provided by Creative Labs.\n\nOther common frustrations include a lack of multi-key mapping for character behaviors, such as pressing Z + a directional arrow to jump in the direction pressed (a problem stemming from a lack of standardized keyboard electrical layouts at that time); the extreme simplicity of monster behaviors (partially due to a desire to eliminate programming from the design tools); a lack of persistent flags for game events (partially due to memory constraints); and the lack of on-screen displays for health, lives, and other counters (due to Andrew's emphasis on full-screen rendering).\n\nMonsters are a particular point of contention. Compared to characters, monsters have only limited interaction with their environments. For instance, monsters are not affected by gravity or other physics—and have no contextual AI to speak of, aside from a limited awareness of the character. Monsters also lack variable counters, such as hit points. Instead each monster (including NPCs, character shots, and some kinds of power-up) has a fixed \"power level\" between 0 and 255, and a collision between unequal monsters is resolved by destroying the weaker monster. The engine therefore does not lend itself to graduated damage (i.e., sword 1 does twice the damage as sword 2). Rather, collisions are all binary; either a weapon works, or it doesn't.\n\nFor advanced users, many of the engine's limitations have workarounds. One can approximate gravity's effect on a monster by defining a heavy diagonal path; the monster will move horizontally until it reaches a ledge, at which point it will fall until it hits the ground again. Similarly, although monsters lack hit counters, the user can create chains of identical (or successively injured-looking) monsters to approximate the same effect.\n\nIn later years users have found ways to subvert or play along with the system's properties to achieve effects, mechanisms, and even genres unaccounted for in the engine's basic features—including extensive in-engine cutscenes, boss sequences, AM2-style sprite scalers, RPG style battles, parallax scrolling, shooting galleries, and destructible terrain.\n\nAs one of the first complete game design suites for IBM-based PCs, and the only one devoted to action games during the early '90s Shareware boom, Game-Maker \"anticipated the thriving indie game community we have today with countless game engines, web sites and indie game companies.\" Several of its users went on to later note in indie or commercial game development, such as renowned \"Seiklus\" author cly5m, \"\" designer Mark Hadley, \"Liight\" programmer Roland Ludlam, \"Warhammer Online\" background artist Justin Meisse, and \"Bionic Commando\" associate producer James W. Morris.\n\nSome games produced with RSD's tools, such as Jeremy LaMar's \"Blinky\" series, have become cult favorites. Others, like \"A-J's Quest\", \"Die Blarney!\", and Matt Bell's \"Paper Airplane\", reached a wide circulation during the 1990s Shareware boom, appearing on many CD compilations. Game-Maker seems also to have made an impression in the Benelux, with references in various academic papers, coverage in the largest game magazine in the region, and dissection by the local demoscene.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38559346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38559346", "title": "Haecceitism", "text": "Haecceitism\n\nIn metaphysics, haecceitism is the perspective implied by the belief that entities can have haecceity or individual essence, \"a set of principles which are essential to it and distinguish it from everything else.\" James Ladyman characterizes haecceitism as \"the claim that worlds can differ \"solo numero\", that worlds can differ \"de re\" whilst not differing \"de dicto\", sometimes said, that worlds can differ solely by the permutation of individuals.\"\n"}
{"id": "2828881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2828881", "title": "Ignace Gelb", "text": "Ignace Gelb\n\nIgnace Jay Gelb (October 14, 1907, Tarnau, Austria-Hungary (now Tarnów, Poland) - December 22, 1985, Chicago, Illinois) was a Polish-American ancient historian and Assyriologist who pioneered the scientific study of writing systems.\n\nBorn in Tarnów, Austria-Hungary (now Poland), he earned his PhD from the University of Rome in 1929, then went to the University of Chicago where he was a professor of Assyriology until his death.\n\nAlthough writing systems have been studied for centuries by linguists, Gelb is widely regarded as the first scientific practitioner of the study of scripts, and coined the term grammatology to refer to the study of writing systems. In \"A Study of Writing\" (1952), he suggested that scripts evolve in a single direction, from logographic scripts to syllabaries to alphabets. This historical typology has been criticized as overly simplistic, forcing the data to fit the model and ignoring exceptional cases. Yet, despite more recent refinements of the typology by Peter T. Daniels and others, Gelb's rigorous study of the properties of different kinds of writing system was pioneering and innovative.\n\nGelb had contributed significantly to the decipherment of the Anatolian hieroglyphs (formerly often referred to as 'Hittite hieroglyphs'), having published 3 volumes of studies on the subject.\n\nIn the course of his career, he published over 20 books, that have been translated into many languages, and over 250 scientific articles.\n\nGelb believed that the Maya hieroglyphs did not qualify as true writing capable of representing language, which has now been disproven following the decipherment of the Maya script.\n\nGelb's work in Assyriology focused on publishing editions of Akkadian texts and a grammar and dictionary of Old Akkadian. He became editor of the Chicago Assyrian Dictionary in 1947 and continued work on the project until his death. His other important works include works on Mesopotamian land tenure and sales, metrology, and other aspects of economic and social history.\n\nGelb, supported by Assyriologist Aage Westenholz, differentiated three stages of Old Akkadian: that of the pre-Sargonic era, that of the Akkadian empire, and that of the \"Neo-Sumerian Renaissance\" that followed it.\n\nHe was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1968) and of the British Academy (1978), a member of the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, and in 1975 he was elected as a member of the prestigious American Philosophical Society. Additionally, from 1965 to 1966 he was president of the American Oriental Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "574226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574226", "title": "Jean Bricmont", "text": "Jean Bricmont\n\nJean Bricmont (; born 12 April 1952) is a Belgian theoretical physicist and philosopher of science. A professor at the Université catholique de Louvain, he works on renormalization group and nonlinear differential equations. Since 2004, He is a member of the Division of Sciences of the Royal Academy of Belgium.\n\nBricmont is mostly known to the non-academic audience as a rationalist activist who partners with American intellectuals with similar views. He has notably criticized postmodernist views of science along with Alan Sokal, with whom he wrote \"Fashionable Nonsense\" (1997). He has also criticized imperialism and defended freedom of expression along with Noam Chomsky.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29384906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29384906", "title": "Krzysztof Michalski", "text": "Krzysztof Michalski\n\nKrzysztof Michalski (8 June 1948 – 11 February 2013) was a Polish philosopher and the rector of Institut für die Wissenschaften vom Menschen (IWM) founded by him in Vienna in 1982.\n\nKrzysztof Michalski was born in Warsaw. He studied philosophy at the University of Warsaw, where he received his Ph.D. in 1974 with a thesis on \"Heidegger and Contemporary Philosophy\". In 1977, he spent one year in Germany as a Humboldt Fellow, from 1978 onwards he taught philosophy at the University of Warsaw. In 1981/82 he was a Thyssen Fellow at the Heidelberg University and in 1982/1983 a Fellow Commoner of Churchill College at Cambridge. In 1986, he was habilitated for Philosophy at the University of Warsaw with the study \"Logic and Time\". Since 1986, Michalski has been teaching philosophy at Boston University, since 1994 also at the University of Warsaw. \n\nIn 1982, he founded the Institute for Human Sciences (IWM) in Vienna, of which he has since been the rector. The Institute is an independent institute for advanced study in the humanities and social sciences. Since its foundation in 1982, it has promoted intellectual exchange between East and West, between academia and society, and between a variety of disciplines and schools of thought.\n\nAhead of the Eastern enlargement of the EU, Michalski advised the European Commission on several occasions, most notably as chairman of the Reflection Group \"The Spiritual and Cultural Dimension of Europe\" (2002–04). He is chairman of the Institute for Public Affairs in Warsaw, and president of the Network of European Institutes for Advanced Study (NetIAS).). In 2004 he was awarded the Theodor Heuss Prize.\n\nMichalski died on February 10, 2013, aged 64, in Vienna. He is survived by his daughters Kalina Michalska, a developmental neuroscientist at the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, MD, and Julia Michalska, a journalist and editor at The Art Newspaper in London.\n\n\nMonographs:\n\n\nAs editor:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45219146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45219146", "title": "Kōshū Itabashi", "text": "Kōshū Itabashi\n\nHe was born in Tagajo, Miyagi in 1927. He graduated from the Naval Academy of Japan in 1945. He also graduated in religious studies at Tohoku University in 1953. He became a Sōtō Zen monk according to Genshū Watanabe. He was trained in Sojiji and he studied under Giyen Inoue in Hamamatsu, Shizuoka.\n\nHe succeeded Ryūtan Matsumoto in Daijoji and became Tanto Roshi of Sojiji leading monks. He became Godo Roshi of Sojijisoin, abbot of Daijoji. He also devised chair Zazen.\n\nHe was elected vice abbot of Sojij, and became the 23rd abbot of Sojiji and Sotozen Superintendent Master (Kancho) in 1998.\n\nHe retired as abbot of Sojiji in 2002. He became abbot Sojijisoin. And he was revived Gotanjoji.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14621998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14621998", "title": "Liu Zi Jue", "text": "Liu Zi Jue\n\nThe Six Healing Sounds or Liu Zi Jue (六字訣) is one of the common forms of Chinese qigong, and involves the coordination of movement and breathing patterns with specific sounds.\n\nThe Term Liu Zi Jue first appears in a book called \"On Caring for the Health of the Mind and Prolonging the Life Span\" written by Tao Hongjing of the Southern and Northern Dynasties (420 - 589). A leading figure of the Maoshan School of Taoism, Tao was renowned for his profound knowledge of Traditional Chinese Medicine. \"One has only one way for inhalation but six for exhalation\" he writes in the book.\n\nZou Pu'an of the Song Dynasty (960 - 1279) was a major contributor in terms of theory and practice to the transmission of the exercise through his book \"The Supreme Knack for Health Preservation - Six-Character Approach to Breathing Exercises\". \n\nNo body movements accompanied the Liu Zi Jue exercises until the Ming Dynasty (1386 - 1644) when Hu Wenhuan and Gao Lian wrote books on the subject. For instance they both included in their books the summary of Liu Zi Jue for dispelling diseases and prolonging the life span, which combines controlled breathing with physical exercises.\n\nThere are a number of schools of exercise which incorporate elements of Liu Zi Jue, including Yi Jin Jing, Ba Gua Zhang and Da Yan Gong, but the sounds are used as an aid to physical exercises in these dynamic Qigong which is different from Liu Zi Jue. An authoritative work on the subject is Ma Litang's \"Liu Zi Jue Health and Fitness Exercises\" for clinical application.\n\nThe theoretical basis of the Liu Zi Jue exercises is in line with the ancient theories intrinstic to Traditional Chinese Medicine of the Five Elements and the Five Solid Viscera. They tend to be on common ground on such issues as mouth forms and pronunciation methods, and the direction of body movements and mind follow the inner circulation law of the meridians.\n\n\nAll syllables are pronounced on a level tone - the so-called first tone (regardless of the dictionary pronunciation of each word); typically all but the fifth sound are sustained - the fifth sound may be sustained, or pronounced quickly and forcefully.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006846", "title": "London Positivist Society", "text": "London Positivist Society\n\nThe London Positivist Society was a philosophical circle that met in London, England, between 1867 and 1974. In 1934 it merged with the English Positivist Committee. The Society's members occupied themselves in applying the ideas of the philosophical school of Comtean positivism to current affairs of the day, including the movement for home rule in Ireland (which the Society supported, following Gladstone's lead), the Second Boer War (which the Society opposed), and the Indian independence movement (which the Society supported).\n\nThe Society was founded by Richard Congreve (4 September 1818–5 July 1899) in 1867. Its members at one time or another included Henry Tompkins (1870–1954); Donald Fincham (1916–1969); George Henry Lewes (1817–1878); Frederick William Walsh (1879–1923), who had been paralysed in an industrial accident but whose mind remained sharp; Paul Juste Decours; and Benjamin Fossett Lock (honorary secretary of the Society 1880–1886), who resigned in 1886 over the Irish home rule debate.\n\nIn 1934 the London Positivist Society merged with the English Positivist Committee, taking the latter's name.\n\nThe Society's presidents included \n\nIn 1878, the organization published a manifesto protesting the Second Anglo-Afghan War. Edward Spenser Beesly signed the manifesto, which was one page long, and believed that attacking the Afghans was unjust.\n\n"}
{"id": "35748227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35748227", "title": "Michael Zammit", "text": "Michael Zammit\n\nMichael Zammit (born 1954) is a Maltese philosopher, specialised in Ancient and Eastern philosophy.\n\nZammit was born at Valletta in 1954. He studied Philosophy at the University of Malta, acquiring as Bachelor of Philosophy in 1976, and a Master’s degree in 1993. After teaching at various academic centres in around Malta, in 1983 he began teaching Philosophy at High School level. He joined the academic staff at the University of Malta in 1988 as part of a team preparing for the introduction of a general knowledge introductory course for High Schools called “Systems of Knowledge”, and also for the introduction of an advanced level matriculation exam in philosophy. At the time, he was also active at the School of Practical Philosophy in Valletta.\n\nZammit began teaching Philosophy, Logic, and Aesthetics (including Calligraphy at the University of Malta in 1992. That same year he was appointed Academic Coordinator of the Centre for Basic Studies at the same university. Between 1989 and 1995, he coordinated, administered and lectured “Systems of Knowledge” courses in both Malta and Gozo. In 1989, he founded the “Philosophy Society” within the Department of Philosophy at the University of Malta. At this university, Zammit lectured on Ancient Philosophy (1992), and Eastern and Western Comparative Philosophy (1994). In 1995, he began teaching Introduction to Philosophy, and other subjects related to Philosophy. On the radio station of the University of Malta (Campus FM), Zammit produced and presented at least three series of programmes related to philosophy: \"Platun\" (Plato; 1996), \"Philosophy Help-line\" (1997), and \"Oht il-Gherf?\" (Sister of Knowledge?; 1998).\n\nAfter some years detached from work directly associated with the University of Malta, lecturing at Malta’s Junior College, in 2008 he became a Senior Lecturer in the Philosophy Department of the Faculties of Arts and that of Theology of the University of Malta. He teaches Plato, Plotinus, Marsilio Ficino, Far Eastern Philosophy and Sanskrit Advaita Vedanta Philosophy. His interests vary from the use of poetic expression in the exploration of philosophical themes to the grammatological analysis of the Paninean Sanskrit notions in the light of contemporary continental philosophical concerns.\n\nZammit’s works include the following:\n\n\n\n\nPhilosophy in Malta\n"}
{"id": "29156019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29156019", "title": "Norms of Liberty", "text": "Norms of Liberty\n\nNorms of Liberty: A Perfectionist Basis for Non-Perfectionist Politics is a 2005 work of political philosophy by Douglas B. Rasmussen and Douglas Den Uyl.\n\n\"Norms of Liberty: A Perfectionist Basis for Non-Perfectionist Politics\" is available in paperback under (University Park, PA: Penn State University Press, 2005).\n\n"}
{"id": "3657390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3657390", "title": "Nous", "text": "Nous\n\nNous (, ), sometimes equated to intellect or intelligence, is a term from classical philosophy for the faculty of the human mind necessary for understanding what is true or real. English words such as \"understanding\" are sometimes used, but three commonly used philosophical terms come directly from classical languages: \"νοῦς\" or \"νόος\" (from Ancient Greek), \"intellēctus\" and \"intellegentia\" (from Latin). To describe the activity of this faculty, the word \"intellection\" is sometimes used in philosophical contexts, as well as the Greek words \"noēsis\" and \"noeîn\" (\"νόησις\", \"νοεῖν\"). This activity is understood in a similar way (at least in some contexts) to the modern concept of intuition.\n\nIn philosophy, common English translations include \"understanding\" and \"mind\"; or sometimes \"thought\" or \"reason\" (in the sense of that which reasons, not the activity of reasoning). It is also often described as something equivalent to perception except that it works within the mind (\"the mind's eye\"). It has been suggested that the basic meaning is something like \"awareness\". In colloquial British English, \"nous\" also denotes \"good sense\", which is close to one everyday meaning it had in Ancient Greece.\nIn Aristotle's influential works, the term was carefully distinguished from sense perception, imagination, and reason, although these terms are closely inter-related. The term was apparently already singled out by earlier philosophers such as Parmenides, whose works are largely lost. In post-Aristotelian discussions, the exact boundaries between perception, understanding of perception, and reasoning have not always agreed with the definitions of Aristotle, even though his terminology remains influential.\n\nIn the Aristotelian scheme, \"nous\" is the basic understanding or awareness that allows human beings to think rationally. For Aristotle, this was distinct from the processing of sensory perception, including the use of imagination and memory, which other animals can do. This therefore connects discussion of \"nous\" to discussion of how the human mind sets definitions in a consistent and communicable way, and whether people must be born with some innate potential to understand the same universal categories in the same logical ways. Deriving from this it was also sometimes argued, especially in classical and medieval philosophy, that the individual \"nous\" must require help of a spiritual and divine type. By this type of account, it came to be argued that the human understanding (\"nous\") somehow stems from this cosmic \"nous\", which is however not just a recipient of order, but a creator of it. Such explanations were influential in the development of medieval accounts of God, the immortality of the soul, and even the motions of the stars, in Europe, North Africa and the Middle East, amongst both eclectic philosophers and authors representing all the major faiths of their times.\n\nIn early Greek uses, Homer used \"nous\" to signify mental activities of both mortals and immortals, for example what they really have on their mind as opposed to what they say aloud. It was one of several words related to thought, thinking, and perceiving with the mind. In pre-Socratic philosophy, it became increasingly distinguished as a source of knowledge and reasoning opposed to mere sense perception or thinking influenced by the body such as emotion. For example, Heraclitus complained that \"much learning does not teach \"nous\"\".\n\nAmong some Greek authors, a faculty of intelligence known as a \"higher mind\" came to be considered as a property of the cosmos as a whole.\n\nThe work of Parmenides set the scene for Greek philosophy to come and the concept of \"nous\" was central to his radical proposals. He claimed that reality as the senses perceive it is not a world of truth at all, because sense perception is so unreliable, and what is perceived is so uncertain and changeable. Instead he argued for a dualism wherein \"nous\" and related words (the verb for thinking which describes its mental perceiving activity, \"noein\", and the unchanging and eternal objects of this perception, \"noēta\") describe a form of perception which is not physical, but intellectual only, distinct from sense perception and the objects of sense perception.\n\nAnaxagoras, born about 500 BC, is the first person who is definitely known to have explained the concept of a \"nous\" (mind), which arranged all other things in the cosmos in their proper order, started them in a rotating motion, and continuing to control them to some extent, having an especially strong connection with living things. (However Aristotle reports an earlier philosopher, Hermotimus of Clazomenae, who had taken a similar position.) Amongst the pre-Socratic philosophers before Anaxagoras, other philosophers had proposed a similar ordering human-like principle causing life and the rotation of the heavens. For example, Empedocles, like Hesiod much earlier, described cosmic order and living things as caused by a cosmic version of love, and Pythagoras and Heraclitus, attributed the cosmos with \"reason\" (\"logos\").\n\nAccording to Anaxagoras the cosmos is made of infinitely divisible matter, every bit of which can inherently become anything, except Mind (\"nous\"), which is also matter, but which can only be found separated from this general mixture, or else mixed into living things, or in other words in the Greek terminology of the time, things with a soul (\"psychē\"). Anaxagoras wrote:\n\nConcerning cosmology, Anaxagoras, like some Greek philosophers already before him, believed the cosmos was revolving, and had formed into its visible order as a result of such revolving causing a separating and mixing of different types of chemical elements. \"Nous\", in his system, originally caused this revolving motion to start, but it does not necessarily continue to play a role once the mechanical motion has started. His description was in other words (shockingly for the time) corporeal or mechanical, with the moon made of earth, the sun and stars made of red hot metal (beliefs Socrates was later accused of holding during his trial) and \"nous\" itself being a physical fine type of matter which also gathered and concentrated with the development of the cosmos. This \"nous\" (mind) is not incorporeal; it is the thinnest of all things. The distinction between \"nous\" and other things nevertheless causes his scheme to sometimes be described as a peculiar kind of dualism.\n\nAnaxagoras' concept of \"nous\" was distinct from later platonic and neoplatonic cosmologies in many ways, which were also influenced by Eleatic, Pythagorean and other pre-Socratic ideas, as well as the Socratics themselves.\n\nIn some schools of Hindu philosophy, a \"higher mind\" came to be considered a property of the cosmos as a whole that exists within all matter (known as buddhi or mahat). In Samkhya, this faculty of intellect (buddhi) serves to differentiate matter (prakrti) from pure consciousness (purusha). The lower aspect of mind that corresponds to the senses is referred to as \"manas\".\n\nXenophon, the less famous of the two students of Socrates whose written accounts of him have survived, recorded that he taught his students a kind of teleological justification of piety and respect for divine order in nature. This has been described as an \"intelligent design\" argument for the existence of God, in which nature has its own \"nous\". For example, in his \"Memorabilia\" 1.4.8, he describes Socrates asking a friend sceptical of religion, \"Are you, then, of the opinion that intelligence (\"nous\") alone exists nowhere and that you by some good chance seized hold of it, while—as you think—those surpassingly large and infinitely numerous things [all the earth and water] are in such orderly condition through some senselessness?\" Later in the same discussion he compares the \"nous\", which directs each person's body, to the good sense (\"phronēsis\") of the god, which is in everything, arranging things to its pleasure (1.4.17). Plato describes Socrates making the same argument in his \"Philebus\" 28d, using the same words \"nous\" and \"phronēsis\".\n\nPlato used the word \"nous\" in many ways that were not unusual in the everyday Greek of the time, and often simply meant \"good sense\" or \"awareness\". On the other hand, in some of his Platonic dialogues it is described by key characters in a higher sense, which was apparently already common. In his \"Philebus\" 28c he has Socrates say that \"all philosophers agree—whereby they really exalt themselves—that mind (\"nous\") is king of heaven and earth. Perhaps they are right.\" and later states that the ensuing discussion \"confirms the utterances of those who declared of old that mind (\"nous\") always rules the universe\".\n\nIn his \"Cratylus\", Plato gives the etymology of Athena's name, the goddess of wisdom, from \"Atheonóa\" (Ἀθεονόα) meaning \"god's (\"theos\") mind (\"nous\")\". In his \"Phaedo\", Plato's teacher Socrates is made to say just before dying that his discovery of Anaxagoras' concept of a cosmic \"nous\" as the cause of the order of things, was an important turning point for him. But he also expressed disagreement with Anaxagoras' understanding of the implications of his own doctrine, because of Anaxagoras' materialist understanding of causation. Socrates said that Anaxagoras would \"give voice and air and hearing and countless other things of the sort as causes for our talking with each other, and should fail to mention the real causes, which are, that the Athenians decided that it was best to condemn me\". On the other hand, Socrates seems to suggest that he also failed to develop a fully satisfactory teleological and dualistic understanding of a mind of nature, whose aims represent the Good, which all parts of nature aim at.\n\nConcerning the \"nous\" that is the source of understanding of individuals, Plato is widely understood to have used ideas from Parmenides in addition to Anaxagoras. Like Parmenides, Plato argued that relying on sense perception can never lead to true knowledge, only opinion. Instead, Plato's more philosophical characters argue that \"nous\" must somehow perceive truth directly in the ways gods and daimons perceive. What our mind sees directly in order to really understand things must not be the constantly changing material things, but unchanging entities that exist in a different way, the so-called \"forms\" or \"ideas\". However he knew that contemporary philosophers often argued (as in modern science) that \"nous\" and perception are just two aspects of one physical activity, and that perception is the source of knowledge and understanding (not the other way around).\n\nJust exactly how Plato believed that the \"nous\" of people lets them come to understand things in any way that improves upon sense perception and the kind of thinking which animals have, is a subject of long running discussion and debate. On the one hand, in the \"Republic\" Plato's Socrates, in the Analogy of the sun and Allegory of the Cave describes people as being able to perceive more clearly because of something from outside themselves, something like when the sun shines, helping eyesight. The source of this illumination for the intellect is referred to as the Form of the Good. On the other hand, in the \"Meno\" for example, Plato's Socrates explains the theory of \"anamnesis\" whereby people are born with ideas already in their soul, which they somehow remember from previous lives. Both theories were to become highly influential.\n\nAs in Xenophon, Plato's Socrates frequently describes the soul in a political way, with ruling parts, and parts that are by nature meant to be ruled. \"Nous\" is associated with the rational (\"logistikon\") part of the individual human soul, which by nature should rule. In his \"Republic\", in the so-called \"analogy of the divided line\", it has a special function within this rational part. Plato tended to treat \"nous\" as the only immortal part of the soul.\n\nConcerning the cosmos, in the \"Timaeus\", the title character also tells a \"likely story\" in which \"nous\" is responsible for the creative work of the demiurge or maker who brought rational order to our universe. This craftsman imitated what he perceived in the world of eternal Forms. In the \"Philebus\" Socrates argues that \"nous\" in individual humans must share in a cosmic \"nous\", in the same way that human bodies are made up of small parts of the elements found in the rest of the universe. And this \"nous\" must be in the \"genos\" of being a cause of all particular things as particular things.\n\nLike Plato, Aristotle saw the \"nous\" or intellect of an individual as somehow similar to sense perception but also distinct. Sense perception in action provides images to the \"nous\", via the \"sensus communis\" and imagination, without which thought could not occur. But other animals have \"sensus communis\" and imagination, whereas none of them have \"nous\". Aristotelians divide perception of forms into the animal-like one which perceives \"species sensibilis\" or \"sensible forms\", and \"species intelligibilis\" that are perceived in a different way by the \"nous\".\n\nLike Plato, Aristotle linked \"nous\" to \"logos\" (reason) as uniquely human, but he also distinguished \"nous\" from \"logos\", thereby distinguishing the faculty for setting definitions from the faculty that uses them to reason with. In his \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle divides the soul (\"psychē\") into two parts, one which has reason and one which does not, but then divides the part which has reason into the reasoning (\"logistikos\") part itself which is lower, and the higher \"knowing\" (\"epistēmonikos\") part which contemplates general principles (\"archai\"). \"Nous\", he states, is the source of the first principles or sources (\"archai\") of definitions, and it develops naturally as people gain experience. This he explains after first comparing the four other truth revealing capacities of soul: technical know how (\"technē\"), logically deduced knowledge (\"epistēmē\", sometimes translated as \"scientific knowledge\"), practical wisdom (\"phronēsis\"), and lastly theoretical wisdom (\"sophia\"), which is defined by Aristotle as the combination of \"nous\" and \"epistēmē\". All of these others apart from \"nous\" are types of reason (\"logos\").\nAristotle's philosophical works continue many of the same Socratic themes as his teacher Plato. Amongst the new proposals he made was a way of explaining causality, and \"nous\" is an important part of his explanation. As mentioned above, Plato criticized Anaxagoras' materialism, or understanding that the intellect of nature only set the cosmos in motion, but is no longer seen as the cause of physical events. Aristotle explained that the changes of things can be described in terms of four causes at the same time. Two of these four causes are similar to the materialist understanding: each thing has a material which causes it to be how it is, and some other thing which set in motion or initiated some process of change. But at the same time according to Aristotle each thing is also caused by the natural forms they are tending to become, and the natural ends or aims, which somehow exist in nature as causes, even in cases where human plans and aims are not involved. These latter two causes (the \"formal\" and \"final\"), are concepts no longer used in modern science, and encompass the continuous effect of the intelligent ordering principle of nature itself. Aristotle's special description of causality is especially apparent in the natural development of living things. It leads to a method whereby Aristotle analyses causation and motion in terms of the potentialities and actualities of all things, whereby all matter possesses various possibilities or potentialities of form and end, and these possibilities become more fully real as their potential forms become actual or active reality (something they will do on their own, by nature, unless stopped because of other natural things happening). For example, a stone has in its nature the potentiality of falling to the earth and it will do so, and actualize this natural tendency, if nothing is in the way.\n\nAristotle analyzed thinking in the same way. For him, the possibility of understanding rests on the relationship between intellect and sense perception. Aristotle's remarks on the concept of what came to be called the \"active intellect\" and \"passive intellect\" (along with various other terms) are amongst \"the most intensely studied sentences in the history of philosophy\". The terms are derived from a single passage in Aristotle's \"De Anima\", Book III. Following is the translation of one of those passages with some key Greek words shown in square brackets.\n...since in nature one thing is the material [\"hulē\"] for each kind [\"genos\"] (this is what is in potency all the particular things of that kind) but it is something else that is the causal and productive thing by which all of them are formed, as is the case with an art in relation to its material, it is necessary in the soul [\"psychē\"] too that these distinct aspects be present;\nthe one sort is intellect [\"nous\"] by becoming all things, the other sort by forming all things, in the way an active condition [\"hexis\"] like light too makes the colors that are in potency be at work as colors [\"to phōs poiei ta dunamei onta chrōmata energeiai chrōmata\"].\nThis sort of intellect [which is like light in the way it makes potential things work as what they are] is separate, as well as being without attributes and unmixed, since it is by its thinghood a being-at-work [\"energeia\"], for what acts is always distinguished in stature above what is acted upon, as a governing source is above the material it works on.\nKnowledge [\"epistēmē\"], in its being-at-work, is the same as the thing it knows, and while knowledge in potency comes first in time in any one knower, in the whole of things it does not take precedence even in time.\nThis does not mean that at one time it thinks but at another time it does not think, but when separated it is just exactly what it is, and this alone is deathless and everlasting (though we have no memory, because this sort of intellect is not acted upon, while the sort that is acted upon is destructible), and without this nothing thinks.\n\nThe passage tries to explain \"how the human intellect passes from its original state, in which it does not think, to a subsequent state, in which it does\" according to his distinction between potentiality and actuality. Aristotle says that the passive intellect receives the intelligible forms of things, but that the active intellect is required to make the potential knowledge into actual knowledge, in the same way that light makes potential colours into actual colours. As Davidson remarks:\nJust what Aristotle meant by potential intellect and active intellect - terms not even explicit in the \"De anima\" and at best implied - and just how he understood the interaction between them remains moot. Students of the history of philosophy continue to debate Aristotle's intent, particularly the question whether he considered the active intellect to be an aspect of the human soul or an entity existing independently of man.\n\nThe passage is often read together with \"Metaphysics\", Book XII, ch.7-10, where Aristotle makes \"nous\" as an actuality a central subject within a discussion of the cause of being and the cosmos. In that book, Aristotle equates active \"nous\", when people think and their \"nous\" becomes what they think about, with the \"unmoved mover\" of the universe, and God: \"For the actuality of thought (\"nous\") is life, and God is that actuality; and the essential actuality of God is life most good and eternal.\" Alexander of Aphrodisias, for example, equated this active intellect which is God with the one explained in \"De Anima\", while Themistius thought they could not be simply equated. (See below.)\n\nLike Plato before him, Aristotle believes Anaxagoras' cosmic \"nous\" implies and requires the cosmos to have intentions or ends: \"Anaxagoras makes the Good a principle as causing motion; for Mind (\"nous\") moves things, but moves them for some end, and therefore there must be some other Good—unless it is as we say; for on our view the art of medicine is in a sense health.\"\n\nIn the philosophy of Aristotle the soul (psyche) of a body is what makes it alive, and is its actualized form; thus, every living thing, including plant life, has a soul. The mind or intellect (\"nous\") can be described variously as a power, faculty, part, or aspect of the human soul. It should be noted that for Aristotle soul and \"nous\" are not the same. He did not rule out the possibility that \"nous\" might survive without the rest of the soul, as in Plato, but he specifically says that this immortal \"nous\" does not include any memories or anything else specific to an individual's life. In his \"Generation of Animals\" Aristotle specifically says that while other parts of the soul come from the parents, physically, the human \"nous\", must come from outside, into the body, because it is divine or godly, and it has nothing in common with the \"energeia\" of the body. This was yet another passage which Alexander of Aphrodisias would link to those mentioned above from \"De Anima\" and the \"Metaphysics\" in order to understand Aristotle's intentions.\n\nUntil the early modern era, much of the discussion which has survived today concerning \"nous\" or intellect, in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, concerned how to correctly interpret Aristotle and Plato. However, at least during the classical period, materialist philosophies, more similar to modern science, such as Epicureanism, were still relatively common also. The Epicureans believed that the bodily senses themselves were not the cause of error, but the interpretations can be. The term \"prolepsis\" was used by Epicureans to describe the way the mind forms general concepts from sense perceptions.\n\nTo the Stoics, more like Heraclitus than Anaxagoras, order in the cosmos comes from an entity called logos, the cosmic reason. But as in Anaxagoras this cosmic reason, like human reason but higher, is connected to the reason of individual humans. The Stoics however, did not invoke incorporeal causation, but attempted to explain physics and human thinking in terms of matter and forces. As in Aristotelianism, they explained the interpretation of sense data requiring the mind to be stamped or formed with ideas, and that people have shared conceptions that help them make sense of things (\"koine ennoia\"). \"Nous\" for them is soul \"somehow disposed\" (\"pôs echon\"), the soul being somehow disposed \"pneuma\", which is fire or air or a mixture. As in Plato, they treated \"nous\" as the ruling part of the soul.\n\nPlutarch criticized the Stoic idea of \"nous\" being corporeal, and agreed with Plato that the soul is more divine than the body while \"nous\" (mind) is more divine than the soul. The mix of soul and body produces pleasure and pain; the conjunction of mind and soul produces reason which is the cause or the source of virtue and vice. (From: “On the Face in the Moon”) \n\nAlbinus was one of the earliest authors to equate Aristotle's \"nous\" as prime mover of the Universe, with Plato's Form of the Good.\n\nAlexander of Aphrodisias was a Peripatetic (Aristotelian) and his \"On the Soul\" (referred to as \"De anima\" in its traditional Latin title), explained that by his interpretation of Aristotle, potential intellect in man, that which has no nature but receives one from the active intellect, is material, and also called the \"material intellect\" (\"nous hulikos\") and it is inseparable from the body, being \"only a disposition\" of it. He argued strongly against the doctrine of immortality. On the other hand, he identified the active intellect (\"nous poietikos\"), through whose agency the potential intellect in man becomes actual, not with anything from within people, but with the divine creator itself. In the early Renaissance his doctrine of the soul's mortality was adopted by Pietro Pomponazzi against the Thomists and the Averroists. For him, the only possible human immortality is an immortality of a detached human thought, more specifically when the \"nous\" has as the object of its thought the active intellect itself, or another incorporeal intelligible form.\n\nAlexander was also responsible for influencing the development of several more technical terms concerning the intellect, which became very influential amongst the great Islamic philosophers, Al-Farabi, Avicenna, and Averroes.\n\nThemistius, another influential commentator on this matter, understood Aristotle differently, stating that the passive or material intellect does \"not employ a bodily organ for its activity, is wholly unmixed with the body, impassive, and separate [from matter]\". This means the human potential intellect, and not only the active intellect, is an incorporeal substance, or a disposition of incorporeal substance. For Themistius, the human soul becomes immortal \"as soon as the active intellect intertwines with it at the outset of human thought\".\n\nThis understanding of the intellect was also very influential for Al-Farabi, Avicenna, and Averroes, and \"virtually all Islamic and Jewish philosophers\". On the other hand, concerning the active intellect, like Alexander and Plotinus, he saw this as a transcendent being existing above and outside man. Differently from Alexander, he did not equate this being with the first cause of the Universe itself, but something lower. However he equated it with Plato's Idea of the Good.\n\nOf the later Greek and Roman writers Plotinus, the initiator of neoplatonism, is particularly significant. Like Alexander of Aphrodisias and Themistius, he saw himself as a commentator explaining the doctrines of Plato and Aristotle. But in his \"Enneads\" he went further than those authors, often working from passages which had been presented more tentatively, possibly inspired partly by earlier authors such as the neopythagorean Numenius of Apamea. Neoplatonism provided a major inspiration to discussion concerning the intellect in late classical and medieval philosophy, theology and cosmology.\n\nIn neoplatonism there exists several levels or \"hypostases\" of being, including the natural and visible world as a lower part.\nThis was based largely upon Plotinus' reading of Plato, but also incorporated many Aristotelian concepts, including the Unmoved Mover as \"energeia\". They also incorporated a theory of \"anamnesis\", or knowledge coming from the past lives of our immortal souls, like that found in some of Plato's dialogues.\n\nLater Platonists distinguished a hierarchy of three separate manifestations of \"nous\", like Numenius of Apamea had. Notable later neoplatonists include Porphyry and Proclus.\n\nGreek philosophy had an influence on the major religions that defined the Middle Ages, and one aspect of this was the concept of \"nous\".\n\nGnosticism was a late classical movement that incorporated ideas inspired by neoplatonism and neopythagoreanism, but which was more a syncretic religious movement than an accepted philosophical movement.\n\nIn Valentinianism, Nous is the first male Aeon. Together with his conjugate female Aeon, Aletheia (truth), he emanates from the Propator Bythos ( \"Forefather Depths\") and his co-eternal Ennoia ( \"Thought\") or Sigē ( \"Silence\"); and these four form the primordial Tetrad. Like the other male Aeons he is sometimes regarded as androgynous, including in himself the female Aeon who is paired with him. He is the Only Begotten; and is styled the Father, the Beginning of All, inasmuch as from him are derived immediately or mediately the remaining Aeons who complete the Ogdoad (eight), thence the Decad (ten), and thence the Dodecad (twelve); in all, thirty Aeons constitute the Pleroma.\n\nHe alone is capable of knowing the Propator; but when he desired to impart like knowledge to the other Aeons, was withheld from so doing by Sigē. When Sophia (\"Wisdom\"), youngest Aeon of the thirty, was brought into peril by her yearning after this knowledge, Nous was foremost of the Aeons in interceding for her. From him, or through him from the Propator, Horos was sent to restore her. After her restoration, Nous, according to the providence of the Propator, produced another pair, Christ and the Holy Spirit, \"in order to give fixity and steadfastness () to the Pleroma.\" For this Christ teaches the Aeons to be content to know that the Propator is in himself incomprehensible, and can be perceived only through the Only Begotten (Nous).\n\nA similar conception of Nous appears in the later teaching of the Basilideans, according to which he is the first begotten of the Unbegotten Father, and himself the parent of \"Logos\", from whom emanate successively \"Phronesis\", \"Sophia\", and \"Dunamis\". But in this teaching, Nous is identified with Christ, is named Jesus, is sent to save those that believe, and returns to Him who sent him, after a Passion which is apparent only, Simon of Cyrene being substituted for him on the cross. It is probable, however, that Nous had a place in the original system of Basilides himself; for his \"Ogdoad\", \"the great Archon of the universe, the ineffable\" is apparently made up of the five members named by Irenaeus (as above), together with two whom we find in Clement of Alexandria, \"Dikaiosyne\" and \"Eirene\", added to the originating Father.\n\nThe antecedent of these systems is that of Simon, of whose six \"roots\" emanating from the Unbegotten Fire, \"Nous\" is first. The correspondence of these \"roots\" with the first six \"Aeons\" that Valentinus derives from \"Bythos\", is noted by Hippolytus. Simon says in his \"Apophasis Megalē\",\n\nTo Nous and \"Epinoia\" correspond Heaven and Earth, in the list given by Simon of the six material counterparts of his six emanations. The identity of this list with the six material objects alleged by Herodotus to be worshipped by the Persians, together with the supreme place given by Simon to Fire as the primordial power, leads us to look to Iran for the origin of these systems in one aspect. In another, they connect themselves with the teaching of Pythagoras and of Plato.\n\nAccording to the \"Gospel of Mary\", Jesus himself articulates the essence of \"Nous\":\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, philosophy itself was in many places seen as opposed to the prevailing monotheistic religions, Islam, Christianity and Judaism. The strongest philosophical tradition for some centuries was amongst Islamic philosophers, who later came to strongly influence the late medieval philosophers of western Christendom, and the Jewish diaspora in the Mediterranean area. While there were earlier Muslim philosophers such as Al Kindi, chronologically the three most influential concerning the intellect were Al Farabi, Avicenna, and finally Averroes, a westerner who lived in Spain and was highly influential in the late Middle Ages amongst Jewish and Christian philosophers.\n\nThe exact precedents of Al Farabi's influential philosophical scheme, in which \"nous\" (Arabic \"ʿaql\") plays an important role, are no longer perfectly clear because of the great loss of texts in the Middle Ages which he would have had access to. He was apparently innovative in at least some points. He was clearly influenced by the same late classical world as neoplatonism, neopythagoreanism, but exactly how is less clear. Plotinus, Themistius and Alexander of Aphrodisias are generally accepted to have been influences. However while these three all placed the active intellect \"at or near the top of the hierarchy of being\", Al Farabi was clear in making it the lowest ranking in a series of distinct transcendental intelligences. He is the first known person to have done this in a clear way. He was also the first philosopher known to have assumed the existence of a causal hierarchy of celestial spheres, and the incorporeal intelligences parallel to those spheres. Al Farabi also fitted an explanation of prophecy into this scheme, in two levels. According to Davidson (p. 59):The lower of the two levels, labeled specifically as \"prophecy\" (\"nubuwwa\"), is enjoyed by men who have not yet perfected their intellect, whereas the higher, which Alfarabi sometimes specifically names \"revelation\" (\"w-ḥ-y\"), comes exclusively to those who stand at the stage of acquired intellect.\nThis happens in the imagination (Arabic \"mutakhayyila\"; Greek \"phantasia\"), a faculty of the mind already described by Aristotle, which al Farabi described as serving the rational part of the soul (Arabic \"ʿaql\"; Greek \"nous\"). This faculty of imagination stores sense perceptions (\"maḥsūsāt\"), disassembles or recombines them, creates figurative or symbolic images (\"muḥākāt\") of them which then appear in dreams, visualizes present and predicted events in a way different from conscious deliberation (\"rawiyya\"). This is under the influence, according to Al Farabi, of the active intellect. Theoretical truth can only be received by this faculty in a figurative or symbolic form, because the imagination is a physical capability and can not receive theoretical information in a proper abstract form. This rarely comes in a waking state, but more often in dreams. The lower type of prophecy is the best possible for the imaginative faculty, but the higher type of prophecy requires not only a receptive imagination, but also the condition of an \"acquired intellect\", where the human \"nous\" is in \"conjunction\" with the active intellect in the sense of God. Such a prophet is also a philosopher. When a philosopher-prophet has the necessary leadership qualities, he becomes philosopher-king.\n\nIn terms of cosmology, according to Davidson (p. 82) \"Avicenna's universe has a structure virtually identical with the structure of Alfarabi's\" but there are differences in details. As in Al Farabi, there are several levels of intellect, intelligence or \"nous\", each of the higher ones being associated with a celestial sphere. Avicenna however details three different types of effect which each of these higher intellects has, each \"thinks\" both the necessary existence and the possible being of the intelligence one level higher. And each \"emanates\" downwards the body and soul of its own celestial sphere, and also the intellect at the next lowest level. The active intellect, as in Alfarabi, is the last in the chain. Avicenna sees active intellect as the cause not only of intelligible thought and the forms in the \"sublunar\" world we people live, but also the matter. (In other words, three effects.)\n\nConcerning the workings of the human soul, Avicenna, like Al Farabi, sees the \"material intellect\" or potential intellect as something that is not material. He believed the soul was incorporeal, and the potential intellect was a disposition of it which was in the soul from birth. As in Al Farabi there are two further stages of potential for thinking, which are not yet actual thinking, first the mind acquires the most basic intelligible thoughts which we can not think in any other way, such as \"the whole is greater than the part\", then comes a second level of derivative intelligible thoughts which could be thought. Concerning the actualization of thought, Avicenna applies the term \"to two different things, to actual human thought, irrespective of the intellectual progress a man has made, and to actual thought when human intellectual development is complete\", as in Al Farabi.\n\nWhen reasoning in the sense of deriving conclusions from syllogisms, Avicenna says people are using a physical \"cogitative\" faculty (\"mufakkira, fikra\") of the soul, which can err. The human cogitative faculty is the same as the \"compositive imaginative faculty (\"mutakhayyila\") in reference to the animal soul\". But some people can use \"insight\" to avoid this step and derive conclusions directly by conjoining with the active intellect.\n\nOnce a thought has been learned in a soul, the physical faculties of sense perception and imagination become unnecessary, and as a person acquires more thoughts, their soul becomes less connected to their body. For Avicenna, different from the normal Aristotelian position, all of the soul is by nature immortal. But the level of intellectual development does affect the type of afterlife that the soul can have. Only a soul which has reached the highest type of conjunction with the active intellect can form a perfect conjunction with it after the death of the body, and this is a supreme \"eudaimonia\". Lesser intellectual achievement means a less happy or even painful afterlife.\n\nConcerning prophecy, Avicenna identifies a broader range of possibilities which fit into this model, which is still similar to that of Al Farabi.\n\nAverroes came to be regarded even in Europe as \"the Commentator\" to \"the Philosopher\", Aristotle, and his study of the questions surrounding the \"nous\" were very influential amongst Jewish and Christian philosophers, with some aspects being quite controversial. According to Herbert Davidson, Averroes' doctrine concerning \"nous\" can be divided into two periods. In the first, neoplatonic emanationism, not found in the original works of Aristotle, was combined with a naturalistic explanation of the human material intellect. \"It also insists on the material intellect's having an active intellect as a direct object of thought and conjoining with the active intellect, notions never expressed in the Aristotelian canon.\" It was this presentation which Jewish philosophers such as Moses Narboni and Gersonides understood to be Averroes'. In the later model of the universe, which was transmitted to Christian philosophers, Averroes \"dismisses emanationism and explains the generation of living beings in the sublunar world naturalistically, all in the name of a more genuine Aristotelianism. Yet it abandons the earlier naturalistic conception of the human material intellect and transforms the material intellect into something wholly un-Aristotelian, a single transcendent entity serving all mankind. It nominally salvages human conjunction with the active intellect, but in words that have little content.\"\n\nThis position, that humankind shares one active intellect, was taken up by Parisian philosophers such as Siger of Brabant, but also widely rejected by philosophers such as Albertus Magnus, Thomas Aquinas, Ramon Lull, and Duns Scotus. Despite being widely considered heretical, the position was later defended by many more European philosophers including John of Jandun, who was the primary link bringing this doctrine from Paris to Bologna. After him this position continued to be defended and also rejected by various writers in northern Italy. In the 16th century it finally became a less common position after the renewal of an \"Alexandrian\" position based on that of Alexander of Aphrodisias, associated with Pietro Pomponazzi.\n\nThe Christian New Testament makes mention of the \"nous\" or \"noos\", generally translated in modern English as \"mind\", but also showing a link to God's will or law:\n\nIn the writings of the Christian fathers a sound or pure \"nous\" is considered essential to the cultivation of wisdom.\n\nWhile philosophical works were not commonly read or taught in the early Middle Ages in most of Europe, the works of authors like Boethius and Augustine of Hippo formed an important exception. Both were influenced by neoplatonism, and were amongst the older works that were still known in the time of the Carolingian Renaissance, and the beginnings of Scholasticism.\n\nIn his early years Augustine was heavily influenced by Manichaeism and afterwards by the Neo-Platonism of Plotinus. After his conversion to Christianity and baptism (387), he developed his own approach to philosophy and theology, accommodating a variety of methods and different perspectives.\n\nAugustine used neoplatonism selectively. He used both the neoplatonic \"Nous\", and the Platonic Form of the Good (or \"The Idea of the Good\") as equivalent terms for the Christian God, or at least for one particular aspect of God. For example, God, \"nous\", can act directly upon matter, and not only through souls, and concerning the souls through which it works upon the world experienced by humanity, some are treated as angels.\n\nScholasticism becomes more clearly defined much later, as the peculiar native type of philosophy in medieval catholic Europe. In this period, Aristotle became \"the Philosopher\", and scholastic philosophers, like their Jewish and Muslim contemporaries, studied the concept of the \"intellectus\" on the basis not only of Aristotle, but also late classical interpreters like Augustine and Boethius. A European tradition of new and direct interpretations of Aristotle developed which was eventually strong enough to argue with partial success against some of the interpretations of Aristotle from the Islamic world, most notably Averroes' doctrine of their being one \"active intellect\" for all humanity. Notable \"Catholic\" (as opposed to Averroist) Aristotelians included Albertus Magnus and Thomas Aquinas, the founder Thomism, which exists to this day in various forms. Concerning the \"nous\", Thomism agrees with those Aristotelians who insist that the intellect is immaterial and separate from any bodily organs, but as per Christian doctrine, the whole of the human soul is immortal, not only the intellect.\n\nThe human \"nous\" in Eastern Orthodox Christianity is the \"eye of the heart or soul\" or the \"mind of the heart\". The soul of man, is created by God in His image, man's soul is intelligent and noetic. Saint Thalassius of Syria wrote that God created beings \"with a capacity to receive the Spirit and to attain knowledge of Himself; He has brought into existence the senses and sensory perception to serve such beings\". Eastern Orthodox Christians hold that God did this by creating mankind with intelligence and noetic faculties.\n\nHuman reasoning is not enough: there will always remain an \"irrational residue\" which escapes analysis and which can not be expressed in concepts: it is this unknowable depth of things, that which constitutes their true, indefinable essence that also reflects the origin of things in God. In Eastern Christianity it is by faith or intuitive truth that this component of an objects existence is grasped. Though God through his energies draws us to him, his essence remains inaccessible. The operation of faith being the means of free will by which mankind faces the future or unknown, these noetic operations contained in the concept of insight or \"noesis\". Faith (\"pistis\") is therefore sometimes used interchangeably with \"noesis\" in Eastern Christianity.\n\nAngels have intelligence and \"nous\", whereas men have reason, both \"logos\" and \"dianoia\", \"nous\" and sensory perception. This follows the idea that man is a microcosm and an expression of the whole creation or macrocosmos. The human \"nous\" was darkened after the Fall of Man (which was the result of the rebellion of reason against the \"nous\"), but after the purification (healing or correction) of the \"nous\" (achieved through ascetic practices like hesychasm), the human \"nous\" (the \"eye of the heart\") will see God's uncreated Light (and feel God's uncreated love and beauty, at which point the nous will start the unceasing prayer of the heart) and become illuminated, allowing the person to become an orthodox theologian.\n\nIn this belief, the soul is created in the image of God. Since God is Trinitarian, Mankind is \"Nous\", reason, both \"logos\" and \"dianoia\", and Spirit. The same is held true of the soul (or heart): it has \"nous\", word and spirit. To understand this better first an understanding of Saint Gregory Palamas's teaching that man is a representation of the trinitarian mystery should be addressed. This holds that God is not meant in the sense that the Trinity should be understood anthropomorphically, but man is to be understood in a triune way. Or, that the Trinitarian God is not to be interpreted from the point of view of individual man, but man is interpreted on the basis of the Trinitarian God. And this interpretation is revelatory not merely psychological and human. This means that it is only when a person is within the revelation, as all the saints lived, that he can grasp this understanding completely (see \"theoria\"). The second presupposition is that mankind has and is composed of \"nous\", word and spirit like the trinitarian mode of being. Man's \"nous\", word and spirit are not hypostases or individual existences or realities, but activities or energies of the soul - whereas in the case with God or the Persons of the Holy Trinity, each are indeed hypostases. So these three components of each individual man are 'inseparable from one another' but they do not have a personal character\" when in speaking of the being or ontology that is mankind. The \"nous\" as the eye of the soul, which some Fathers also call the heart, is the centre of man and is where true (spiritual) knowledge is validated. This is seen as true knowledge which is \"implanted in the \"nous\" as always co-existing with it\".\n\nThe so-called \"early modern\" philosophers of western Europe in the 17th and 18th centuries established arguments which led to the establishment of modern science as a methodical approach to improve the welfare of humanity by learning to control nature. As such, speculation about metaphysics, which cannot be used for anything practical, and which can never be confirmed against the reality we experience, started to be deliberately avoided, especially according to the so-called \"empiricist\" arguments of philosophers such as Bacon, Hobbes, Locke and Hume. The Latin motto \"nihil in intellectu nisi prius fuerit in sensu\" (nothing in the intellect without first being in the senses) has been described as the \"guiding principle of empiricism\" in the \"Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy\". (This was in fact an old Aristotelian doctrine, which they took up, but as discussed above Aristotelians still believed that the senses on their own were not enough to explain the mind.)\n\nThese philosophers explain the intellect as something developed from experience of sensations, being interpreted by the brain in a physical way, and nothing else, which means that absolute knowledge is impossible. For Bacon, Hobbes and Locke, who wrote in both English and Latin, \"intellectus\" was translated as \"understanding\". Far from seeing it as secure way to perceive the truth about reality, Bacon, for example, actually named the \"intellectus\" in his \"Novum Organum\", and the proœmium to his \"Great Instauration\", as a major source of wrong conclusions, because it is biased in many ways, for example towards over-generalizing. For this reason, modern science should be methodical, in order not to be misled by the weak human intellect. He felt that lesser known Greek philosophers such as Democritus \"who did not suppose a mind or reason in the frame of things\", have been arrogantly dismissed because of Aristotelianism leading to a situation in his time wherein \"the search of the physical causes hath been neglected, and passed in silence\". The intellect or understanding was the subject of Locke's \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\".\n\nThese philosophers also tended not to emphasize the distinction between reason and intellect, describing the peculiar universal or abstract definitions of human understanding as being man-made and resulting from reason itself. Hume even questioned the distinctness or peculiarity of human understanding and reason, compared to other types of associative or imaginative thinking found in some other animals. In modern science during this time, Newton is sometimes described as more empiricist compared to Leibniz.\n\nOn the other hand, into modern times some philosophers have continued to propose that the human mind has an in-born (\"a priori\") ability to know the truth conclusively, and these philosophers have needed to argue that the human mind has direct and intuitive ideas about nature, and this means it can not be limited entirely to what can be known from sense perception. Amongst the early modern philosophers, some such as Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, and Kant, tend to be distinguished from the empiricists as rationalists, and to some extent at least some of them are called idealists, and their writings on the intellect or understanding present various doubts about empiricism, and in some cases they argued for positions which appear more similar to those of medieval and classical philosophers.\n\nThe first in this series of modern rationalists, Descartes, is credited with defining a \"mind-body problem\" which is a major subject of discussion for university philosophy courses. According to the presentation his , the human mind and body are different in kind, and while Descartes agrees with Hobbes for example that the human body works like a clockwork mechanism, and its workings include memory and imagination, the real human is the thinking being, a soul, which is not part of that mechanism. Descartes explicitly refused to divide this soul into its traditional parts such as intellect and reason, saying that these things were indivisible aspects of the soul. Descartes was therefore a dualist, but very much in opposition to traditional Aristotelian dualism. In his he deliberately uses traditional terms and states that his active faculty of giving ideas to his thought must be corporeal, because the things perceived are clearly external to his own thinking and corporeal, while his passive faculty must be incorporeal (unless God is deliberately deceiving us, and then in this case the active faculty would be from God). This is the opposite of the traditional explanation found for example in Alexander of Aphrodisias and discussed above, for whom the passive intellect is material, while the active intellect is not. One result is that in many Aristotelian conceptions of the \"nous\", for example that of Thomas Aquinas, the senses are still a source of all the intellect's conceptions. However, with the strict separation of mind and body proposed by Descartes, it becomes possible to propose that there can be thought about objects never perceived with the body's senses, such as a thousand sided geometrical figure. Gassendi objected to this distinction between the imagination and the intellect in Descartes. Hobbes also objected, and according to his own philosophical approach asserted that the \"triangle in the mind comes from the triangle we have seen\" and \"essence in so far as it is distinguished from existence is nothing else than a union of names by means of the verb is\". Descartes, in his reply to this objection insisted that this traditional distinction between essence and existence is \"known to all\".\n\nHis contemporary Blaise Pascal, criticised him in similar words to those used by Plato's Socrates concerning Anaxagoras, discussed above, saying that \"I cannot forgive Descartes; in all his philosophy, Descartes did his best to dispense with God. But Descartes could not avoid prodding God to set the world in motion with a snap of his lordly fingers; after that, he had no more use for God.\"\n\nDescartes argued that when the intellect does a job of helping people interpret what they perceive, not with the help of an intellect which enters from outside, but because each human mind comes into being with innate God-given ideas, more similar then, to Plato's theory of \"anamnesis\", only not requiring reincarnation. Apart from such examples as the geometrical definition of a triangle, another example is the idea of God, according to the 3rd \"Meditation\". Error, according to the 4th \"Meditation\", comes about because people make judgments about things which are not in the intellect or understanding. This is possible because the human will, being free, is not limited like the human intellect.\n\nSpinoza, though considered a Cartesian and a rationalist, rejected Cartesian dualism and idealism. In his \"pantheistic\" approach, explained for example in his \"Ethics\", God is the same as nature, the human intellect is just the same as the human will. The divine intellect of nature is quite different from human intellect, because it is finite, but Spinoza does accept that the human intellect is a part of the infinite divine intellect.\n\nLeibniz, in comparison to the guiding principle of the empiricists described above, added some words \"nihil in intellectu nisi prius fuerit in sensu\", nisi intellectus ipsi (\"nothing in the intellect without first being in the senses\" \"except the intellect itself\"). Despite being at the forefront of modern science, and modernist philosophy, in his writings he still referred to the active and passive intellect, a divine intellect, and the immortality of the active intellect.\n\nBerkeley, partly in reaction to Locke, also attempted to reintroduce an \"immaterialism\" into early modern philosophy (later referred to as \"subjective idealism\" by others). He argued that individuals can only know sensations and ideas of objects, not abstractions such as \"matter\", and that ideas depend on perceiving minds for their very existence. This belief later became immortalized in the dictum, \"esse est percipi\" (\"to be is to be perceived\"). As in classical and medieval philosophy, Berkeley believed understanding had to be explained by divine intervention, and that all our ideas are put in our mind by God.\n\nHume accepted some of Berkeley's corrections of Locke, but in answer insisted, as had Bacon and Hobbes, that absolute knowledge is not possible, and that all attempts to show how it could be possible have logical problems. Hume's writings remain highly influential on all philosophy afterwards, and are for example considered by Kant to have shaken him from an intellectual slumber.\n\nKant, a turning point in modern philosophy, agreed with some classical philosophers and Leibniz that the intellect itself, although it needed sensory experience for understanding to begin, needs something else in order to make sense of the incoming sense information. In his formulation the intellect (\"Verstand\") has \"a priori\" or innate principles which it has before thinking even starts. Kant represents the starting point of German idealism and a new phase of modernity, while empiricist philosophy has also continued beyond Hume to the present day.\n\nOne of the results of the early modern philosophy has been the increasing creation of specialist fields of science, in areas that were once considered part of philosophy, and infant cognitive development and perception now tend to be discussed now more within the sciences of psychology and neuroscience than in philosophy.\n\nModern mainstream thinking on the mind is not dualist, and sees anything innate in the mind as being a result of genetic and developmental factors which allow the mind to develop. Overall it accepts far less innate \"knowledge\" (or clear pre-dispositions to particular types of knowledge) than most of the classical and medieval theories derived from philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, Plotinus and Al Farabi.\n\nApart from discussions about the history of philosophical discussion on this subject, contemporary philosophical discussion concerning this point has continued concerning what the ethical implications are of the different alternatives still considered likely.\n\nClassical conceptions of nous are still discussed seriously in theology. There is also still discussion of classical nous in non-mainstream metaphysics or spiritualism, such as Noetics, promoted for example by the Institute of Noetic Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "24055309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24055309", "title": "Owen Biddle Sr.", "text": "Owen Biddle Sr.\n\nOwen Biddle Sr. (1737 – March 10, 1799) was a clockmaker and watchmaker by trade, a merchant in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, an American Revolutionary War Colonel, and an astronomer and scientist.\n\nHe was a great-grandson of William Biddle, I (1630–1712), and Sarah Kempe (1634–1709), Quakers who emigrated to America in 1681. William Biddle was one of the Proprietors of West Jersey, and for many years a member of the Governor's Council of that colony. Owen was a grandson of William Biddle, II (1660–1743), and son of John Biddle, I, (1707–1789), who moved to Philadelphia about 1725 with his brother, William Biddle, III (b. 1698–1756). His father prospered as a merchant. After eight years of formal education, Owen Biddle became a clock and watchmaker.\n\nHe was engaged in mercantile pursuits, and with his younger brother, Clement Biddle, signed the Non-importation Resolutions of October 25, 1765. He was a delegate to the Provincial Conference January 23, 1775; member of the Committee of Safety from June 30, 1775, to July 22, 1776, during which period he served as \"de facto\" Governor of Pennsylvania on July 4, 1776, again on July 8 and 10, 1776, and finally on July 16, 1776. Owen Biddle continued service with the newly constituted Council of Safety from July 24, 1776 to March 13, 1777. He became a member of the Board of War on March 13, 1777, and was a member of the Pennsylvania Constitutional Convention of July 15, 1776.\n\nIn June, 1777, he was appointed Deputy Commissary General of Forage, with the rank of Colonel, by the Continental Congress. He served under his younger brother, Clement, who was the Commissary General of Forage and also a Colonel, until August 15, 1780. He and his brother labored for three years to obtain provisions for the Continental Army's horses, mules and other draft animals, while struggling to obtain funds, working with unreliable subordinates, and many unresponsive farmers.\n\nHe was an early and active member of the American Philosophical Society, one of its curators from 1769 to 1772, and secretary from 1773 to 1782, when he became one of the councilors, continuing as such until his death. In 1782, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was one of the committee of thirteen appointed by the Society to observe the transit of Venus on June 3, 1769. These observations were made with eminent success by three members of the Committee, David Rittenhouse being stationed at Norristown, Dr. Ewins at Philadelphia, and Owen Biddle at Cape Henlopen, Delaware.\n\nHe married Sarah Parke in 1760, and fathered ten children over a period of twenty years, including Owen Biddle Jr. (1774–1806), a member of the Carpenters' Company of the City and County of Philadelphia. He died on March 10, 1799, in Philadelphia.\n"}
{"id": "34454406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34454406", "title": "Philosophy of culture", "text": "Philosophy of culture\n\nPhilosophy of culture is a branch of philosophy that examines the essence and meaning of culture.\n\nThe German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) has formulated an individualist definition of \"enlightenment\" similar to the concept of \"bildung\": \"Enlightenment is man's emergence from his self-incurred immaturity.\" He argued that this immaturity comes not from a lack of understanding, but from a lack of courage to think independently. Against this intellectual cowardice, Kant urged: \"Sapere aude\", \"Dare to be wise!\" In reaction to Kant, German scholars such as Johann Gottfried Herder (1744–1803) argued that human creativity, which necessarily takes unpredictable and highly diverse forms, is as important as human rationality. Moreover, Herder proposed a collective form of \"bildung\": \"For Herder, Bildung was the totality of experiences that provide a coherent identity, and sense of common destiny, to a people.\"\n\nIn 1795, the great linguist and philosopher Wilhelm von Humboldt (1767–1835) called for an anthropology that would synthesize Kant's and Herder's interests. During the Romantic era, scholars in Germany, especially those concerned with nationalist movements—such as the nationalist struggle to create a \"Germany\" out of diverse principalities, and the nationalist struggles by ethnic minorities against the Austro-Hungarian Empire—developed a more inclusive notion of culture as \"worldview\"(\"Weltanschauung\"). According to this school of thought, each ethnic group has a distinct worldview that is incommensurable with the worldviews of other groups. Although more inclusive than earlier views, this approach to culture still allowed for distinctions between \"civilized\" and \"primitive\" or \"tribal\" cultures.\n\nIn 1860, Adolf Bastian (1826–1905) argued for \"the psychic unity of mankind\". He proposed that a scientific comparison of all human societies would reveal that distinct worldviews consisted of the same basic elements. According to Bastian, all human societies share a set of \"elementary ideas\" (\"Elementargedanken\"); different cultures, or different \"folk ideas\" (\"Völkergedanken\"), are local modifications of the elementary ideas. This view paved the way for the modern understanding of culture. Franz Boas (1858–1942) was trained in this tradition, and he brought it with him when he left Germany for the United States.\nIn the 19th century, humanists such as English poet and essayist Matthew Arnold (1822–1888) used the word \"culture\" to refer to an ideal of individual human refinement, of \"the best that has been thought and said in the world.\" This concept of culture is comparable to the German concept of \"bildung\": \"...culture being a pursuit of our total perfection by means of getting to know, on all the matters which most concern us, the best which has been thought and said in the world.\"\n\nIn practice, \"culture\" referred to an élite ideal and was associated with such activities as art, classical music, and haute cuisine. As these forms were associated with urban life, \"culture\" was identified with \"civilization\" (from lat. \"civitas\", city). Another facet of the Romantic movement was an interest in folklore, which led to identifying a \"culture\" among non-elites. This distinction is often characterized as that between high culture, namely that of the ruling social group, and low culture. In other words, the idea of \"culture\" that developed in Europe during the 18th and early 19th centuries reflected inequalities within European societies.\n\nMatthew Arnold contrasted \"culture\" with anarchy; other Europeans, following philosophers Thomas Hobbes and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, contrasted \"culture\" with \"the state of nature\". According to Hobbes and Rousseau, the Native Americans who were being conquered by Europeans from the 16th centuries on were living in a state of nature; this opposition was expressed through the contrast between \"civilized\" and \"uncivilized.\" According to this way of thinking, one could classify some countries and nations as more civilized than others and some people as more cultured than others. This contrast led to Herbert Spencer's theory of Social Darwinism and Lewis Henry Morgan's theory of cultural evolution. Just as some critics have argued that the distinction between high and low cultures is really an expression of the conflict between European elites and non-elites, some critics have argued that the distinction between civilized and uncivilized people is really an expression of the conflict between European colonial powers and their colonial subjects.\n\nOther 19th-century critics, following Rousseau have accepted this differentiation between higher and lower culture, but have seen the refinement and sophistication of high culture as corrupting and unnatural developments that obscure and distort people's essential nature. These critics considered folk music (as produced by \"the folk\", i.e., rural, illiterate, peasants) to honestly express a natural way of life, while classical music seemed superficial and decadent. Equally, this view often portrayed indigenous peoples as \"noble savages\" living authentic and unblemished lives, uncomplicated and uncorrupted by the highly stratified capitalist systems of the West.\n\nIn 1870 the anthropologist Edward Tylor (1832–1917) applied these ideas of higher versus lower culture to propose a theory of the evolution of religion. According to this theory, religion evolves from more polytheistic to more monotheistic forms. In the process, he redefined culture as a diverse set of activities characteristic of all human societies. This view paved the way for the modern understanding of culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "29469211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29469211", "title": "Preparation for Total Consecration according to Saint Louis de Montfort", "text": "Preparation for Total Consecration according to Saint Louis de Montfort\n\nPreparation for Total Consecration according to Saint Louis Marie de Montfort was inspired by Louis de Montfort and published in 2001. Saint Louis dedicated his life to following and praying to the Virgin Mary. His devotion to Mary was even considered “the best and most acceptable form of devotion to Our Lady” by Pope Pius IX. Four of his performed miracles were examined by the Sacred Congregation. Saint Louis de Montfort was canonized by Pope Pius XII on July 20, 1947, over two hundred years after his death. The process took a very long time due to his lack of followers and the unfortunate era in which he died. His two biographies, one by Grandet and the other Father de Clorivière, both dated in the 1700s, which was a time of “immense social and religious upheaval.”\n\nSaint Louis de Montfort found it his life’s mission to be devoted to Mary. He believed that in order to thoroughly follow Jesus, one had to go through Mary first. The process of total consecration to Jesus through Mary came to light. \"Preparation for Total Consecration according to Saint Louis Marie de Montfort\" was published by Montfort Publications in Bay Shore, New York, in 2001.\n\nThe purpose of the consecration is to rid the self of the spirit of the world and to become completely in tune with the lives of Jesus and the Mother Mary. This particular consecration is a thirty-three-day-long process in which the final day falls on a feast day of the Blessed Virgin.\n\nThe first twelve days of the consecration are set aside as the preliminary days, meant to rid one’s self of all outside hindrances. Saint Louis de Montfort declares that this “part of the preparation should be employed in casting off the spirit of the world which is contrary to that of Jesus Christ.” After a short introduction to the preliminary days is given, Saint Louis provides a list of three prayers that should be said daily. These prayers include \"Veni Creator\", \"Avi Maris Stella\", and the \"Magnificat\". Each day also entails a short meditation meant to be reflected upon before the prayers. The daily meditations tend to include one or two bible verses accompanied with a couple reflective words from the saint himself.\n\nAfter the twelve days are completed, the consecration moves on to Part II: Knowledge of Self. In this section, Saint Louis de Montfort’s goal for the consecrator is to “consider not so much the opposition that exists between the spirit of Jesus and ours, as the miserable and humiliating state to which our sins have reduced us.” The prayers for this period are a bit longer, consisting of the \"Litany of the Holy Ghost\", \"Litany of the Blessed Virgin\", and the \"Ave Maris Stella\".\n\nOnce the Knowledge of Self week is complete, the next section of the consecration to be prayed is Part III: Knowledge of Mary. During this period, it is important to reflect upon “the interior life of Mary, namely, her virtues, her sentiments, her actions, her participation in the mysteries of Christ and her union with Him.” The prayers said for this section include the same as the previous. However, the consecrator is to say a daily rosary amid everything else. This week is a more challenging part for consecrators, as it leads to an hour to two hours of prayer and reflection.\n\nThe fourthand final part of Saint Louis de Montfort’s consecration is the Knowledge of Jesus Christ. The prayers for this section include \"Litany of the Holy Ghost\", \"Ave Maris Stella\", \"Litany of the Holy Name of Jesus\", \"St. Louis de Montfort’s Prayer to Jesus\", and \"O, Jesus Living in Mary\". At the finish of the consecration, usually the consecrator is to purchase a chain that can be worn around the wrist as a constant reminder of one’s slave hood to Mary and Jesus. In order for the consecration to be complete, the consecrator must attend Mass on the final day, partake in confession either the week before or after, and do a personal penance for Mary.\n\n"}
{"id": "3172258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3172258", "title": "Psychophysical parallelism", "text": "Psychophysical parallelism\n\nIn the philosophy of mind, psychophysical parallelism (or simply parallelism) is the theory that mental and bodily events are perfectly coordinated, without any causal interaction between them. As such, it affirms the correlation of mental and bodily events (since it accepts that when a mental event occurs, a corresponding physical effect occurs as well), but denies a direct cause and effect relation between mind and body. This coordination of mental and bodily events has been postulated to occur either in advance (as per Gottfried Leibniz's idea of pre-established harmony) or at the time of the event (as in the occasionalism of Nicolas Malebranche). On this view, mental and bodily phenomena are independent but yet inseparable, like two sides of a coin. \n\nPsychophysical parallelism is a third possible alternative regarding the relation between mind and body, between interaction (e.g., dualism) and one-sided action (e.g., materialism, epiphenomenalism).\n\nParallelism is a theory which is related to dualism which suggests that although there is a correlation between mental and physical events there is no causal connection. The body and mind do not interact with each other but simply run alongside one another, in \"parallel\", and there happens to be a correspondence between the two but neither causes the other. That is to say that the physical event of burning your finger and the mental event of feeling pain just happen to occur simultaneously — one does not cause the other. \n\nIn his 1925 book \"The Mind and its Place in Nature\", C. D. Broad maintains that parallelism is, \"The assertion is that to every particular change in the mind there corresponds a certain change in the brain which this mind animates, and that to every change in the brain there corresponds a certain change in the mind which animates this brain.\"\n\nA prominent version of parallelism is called occasionalism. Defended by Nicolas Malebranche, occasionalism agrees that the mind and body are separated but does not agree with Descartes’s explanation of how the two interact. For Malebranche, God intercedes if there was a need for the mind and body to interact. For example, if the body is injured, God is aware of the injury and makes the mind, or the person (subject of experience), feel pain. Likewise, if a person wants to move their hand, i.e. to grasp an object with their fingers, that want is made aware to God and then God makes the person’s hand move. In reality, the mind and body are not actually in contact with each other, it just seems that way because God is intervening. Occasionalism can be viewed as parallelism with divine intervention so to speak, because if God did not mediate between the mind and body, there would be no interaction between the two.\n\nAccording to Baruch Spinoza, as explicated in his \"Ethics\", the two attributes of God of which we have cognizance, namely thought and extension, are not causally related. Rather, they are two different ways of comprehending one and the same reality. Thus, the human body has a corresponding idea, which is the human mind or soul. Whatever happens in the body always occurs in tandem with contents of the mind. Since everything that exists is a \"modus\" of God, Spinoza's concept represents a monist account of parallelism, contrary to Leibniz's pluralist version.\n\nGerman philosopher Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz concluded that the world was made up of an infinite number of life units called monads (from the Greek \"monas\", meaning “single”). Similar to living atoms, monads are all active and functioning. As there is naturally a hierarchy in nature, monads vary in degrees of intelligence. Some are more specialized and are more capable of having clearer and more distinctive thoughts opposed to monads that are simpler in structure. Next to God, humans possess the monads that are able to exhibit the highest level of comprehensive thinking. However, humans possess many types of monads, varying from very simple to very complex forms, which explains why the ideas we experience at times differ in clarity. Monads according to Leibniz can never be influenced by anything outside of themselves. Therefore, the only way that they can change is by internal development, or more specifically, by actualizing their potential. He believed monads never influence each other; it just seems like they do. Whenever we perceive a monad to be the cause of something, other monads are created in such a way as to seem like they are affecting the other. According to Leibniz, the entire universe was created by God to be in a pre-established harmony, so nothing in the universe actually influences anything else. Looking at psychophysical parallelism in that way, you could imagine the mind and body as two identical clocks. The clocks will always be in agreement because of the pre-existing harmony between them, but will never interact. And like the two clocks, no interaction or causation among the monads that make up the mind and body is necessary because they are already synchronized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7795849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7795849", "title": "Quassim Cassam", "text": "Quassim Cassam\n\nQuassim Cassam (born 31 January 1961) is Professor of Philosophy at the University of Warwick. Cassam was born in Mombasa, Kenya and educated at Keble College, Oxford. He writes on self-knowledge, perception, epistemic vices and topics in Kantian epistemology.\n\nFrom 1986 to 2004 he taught Philosophy at Oxford University, where he was a Fellow of Wadham College. In 1993 he was Visiting Associate Professor at the University of California, Berkeley. In 2004 he held the John Evans Distinguished Visiting Professorship in Moral and Intellectual Philosophy at Northwestern University, Illinois. He was Professor of Philosophy at University College London in 2005-2006 and Knightbridge Professor of Philosophy at Cambridge University in 2007-2008. Since 2009, Cassam has been a Professor of Philosophy at Warwick University. In 2016 he was awarded a Leadership Fellowship by the Arts and Humanities Research Council in the UK.\nHe has been a President of the Aristotelian Society (2010–11) and a Mind Senior Research Fellow (2012–13).\n\nCassam was born in Mombasa, Kenya, to a Gujarati Ismaili family. His parents and grandparents were all born in Kenya. His great grandparents were born in Gujarat, India, and emigrated to Kenya in the 1890s. He was a Kenyan citizen until an age of 18 but has spent most of his adult life in the U.K. He studied Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) at Keble College, Oxford and was awarded an Oxford doctorate in 1985 for a dissertation on transcendental arguments.\nCassam's early publications were mostly on Kant, including \"Transcendental Arguments, Transcendental Synthesis, and Transcendental Idealism\" (\"Philosophical Quarterly\", 1987) and \"Kant and Reductionism\" (\"Review of Metaphysics\", 1989). In recent times he has published work on epistemic vices and introduced the label 'vice epistemology' for the philosophical study of the nature and significance of epistemic vices such as closed-mindedness, overconfidence, dogmatism and wishful thinking \n\nHe is the author of four books: \"Self and World\" (Oxford, 1997); \"The Possibility of Knowledge\" (Oxford, 2007); \"Self-Knowledge for Humans\" (Oxford, 2014); and, jointly with John Campbell, \"Berkeley's Puzzle: What Does Experience Teach Us?\" (Oxford, 2014).\n\nHe is also the editor of \"Self-Knowledge\" (Oxford, 1994) and the author of the Self-Knowledge bibliography in \"Oxford Bibliographies Online\" (Oxford, 2010). His 2010 Aristotelian Society Presidential address, \"Knowing What You Believe\", was published in \"The Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society\", 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1569987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1569987", "title": "Reformational philosophy", "text": "Reformational philosophy\n\nReformational philosophy is a Neo-Calvinistic movement pioneered by Herman Dooyeweerd and D. H. Th. Vollenhoven that seeks to develop philosophical thought in a radically Protestant Christian direction.\n\nIn 1926 two Calvinist scholars were appointed to positions in the Free University (VU) in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Both had completed their education there and had been influenced by the thought of its founder Abraham Kuyper whose brand of Neo-Calvinism had made a significant impact on the politics and culture of Dutch society. D. H. Th. Vollenhoven was appointed as the university’s first full-time professor of philosophy and his brother-in-law, Herman Dooyeweerd, was appointed to the law faculty.\n\nBoth men had already been cooperating in the development of a uniquely Christian philosophy and their labours began to see considerable fruit over the next ten years. The mid-1930s saw a series of significant publications culminating in Dooyeweerd’s magnum opus \"De Wijsbegeerte der Wetsidee\" (The Philosophy of the Cosmonomic Idea) in three volumes. At this time Vollenhoven organised the \"Association for Calvinistic Philosophy\" which he served as president until his retirement in 1963, by then an international organisation with over 500 members. Dooyeweerd became the first editor of the Association's academic journal \"Philosophia Reformata\".\n\nAfter the second world war the Association for Calvinistic Philosophy took advantage of a legal provision which, by establishing a second organization for that purpose, allowed those interested in the further project to appoint professors in special chairs at state universities. Johan Mekkes was appointed in 1947 at Rotterdam, Leiden and Eindhoven, K. J. Popma at Groningen in 1948 and later Utrecht (1955), S. U. Zuidema at the Free University and Utrecht in 1948 and Hendrik Van Riessen at Delft and Eindhoven in 1951.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, mainly through the influence of Vollenhoven’s American student H. Evan Runner, many North Americans with Dutch roots came to study under these Calvinistic philosophers increasing the influence of this new philosophy. Dooyeweerd also revised his earlier work for English publication under the title \"A New Critique of Theoretical Thought\". As a consequence Dooyeweerd has received greatest exposure outside of the Netherlands.\n\nAlthough Calvinistic in roots reformational philosophy has always been ecumenical in outlook. Dooyeweerd later rejected the term “Calvinistic” wishing his philosophy to be seen as \"Reformational-Ecumenical\" Christian. On the 50th anniversary of the Association Jacob Klapwijk summarized some of the central themes of reformational philosophy and looked forward to its continuing contributions. This important article was titled “Reformational Philosophy on the Boundary Between the Past and the Future.” In 1995 the \"Association for Calvinistic Philosophy\" became the \"Association for Reformational Philosophy,\" while its supporting foundation became the Foundation for Christian Philosophy (Stichting voor Christelijke Filosofie, with the new Dutch spelling).\n\nJan-Willem Dijkshoorn outlines four different generations of Dutch reformational philosophers. The first generation were Vollenhoven and Dooyeweerd; the second generation: Hendrik Van Riessen, K. J. Popma, S. U. Zuidema and Johan Mekkes; the third generation: Egbert Schuurman, Henk Geertsema and Sander Griffioen; the fourth generation: Jan Hoogland. Others in the third Generation or the fourth or in between should include Dr Maarten Verkerk whose book in translation will be read widely in North America, Trust and Power on the Shop Floor: An Ethnographical, Ethical, and Philosophical Study on Responsible Behaviour in Industrial Organizations .\n\nDijkshoorn's own cultural context leaves out of perception in the second generation Dr H. Evan Runner, who studied in the Netherlands but thereafter returned to the United States to teach at Calvin College, Grand Rapids, Michigan. Runner was a student of Vollenhoven who had also studied Dooyeweerd's work closely. Runner returned to the USA to teach, and from there sent back to the VU students to work on their doctorates under Vollenhoven in philosophy, one to do so under Dooyeweerd in jurisprudence, and others in an array of additional disciplines – such was Runner's influence! Many of these were children of families which had emigrated from the Netherlands to Canada or the USA, studied under H. Evan Runner at Calvin College, returned to the VU already bilingual, completed their doctorates, some to stay in the Netherlands and the VU, some to return to North America. Another person of this generation who deserves mention is the biologist Johann H. Diemer, the first secretary to the editorial board of \"Philosophia Reformata\", whose work \"Nature and Miracle\" is still being read. He died early, at the age of 41, after having been a Nazi concentration camp prisoner.\n\nIn North America, the Institute for Christian Studies (ICS) was established in Toronto to offer graduate degrees. The ICS has had a long cooperative relationship with the VU, the University of Toronto's federation of Theological Schools, and more recently also the University's Faculty of Philosophy. Thus, in North America, there is an active second generation of reformational philosophers in Calvin Seerveld; a third generation including Hendrik Hart, Bernard Zylstra (deceased), James Olthius, Arnold DeGraaff (afterward a practicing psychotherapist for 30 years and co-founder of Mono Therapy Center, Mono, Ontario), Thomas McIntire, Albert M. Wolters, William Rowe, George VanderVelde (a theologian who took his doctorate under G. C. Berkouwer); and fourth-generationers Paul Marshall and Robert Sweetman may be added – to name just those who have had active professorial roles at ICS.\n\nThere is now a numerous body of doctoral graduates of ICS through its cooperative program with the VU. At ICS itself, these now include: \n\nFurther graduates include:\n\nMany other names among the generations could be included, for instance, among those who taught at ICS, Redeemer University College, and College of New Jersey (formerly Trenton State University, NJ), and .\n\nThere are two main claims that characterise reformational philosophy.\n\nReformational philosophy rejects the view that theoretical thought, including philosophical thought, is . The view that theoretical thinking is a purely rational activity; has a purely rational ground, or requires no pre-theoretical conditions or commitments for its possibility cannot be sustained. Any attempt to explain theoretical thought without acknowledging non-theoretical factors is destined to fall into irresolvable antinomies. The conclusion of Dooyeweerd’s “transcendental critique of theoretical thought” is that philosophy cannot function without religious-deep presuppositions. His analysis of the influence of religious ground-motives in the history of philosophy – particularly that of nature-freedom in modern humanism (see Dooyeweerd 1997 Vol.1) – is illustrative of this conclusion.\n\nReformational philosophy has always been concerned that philosophy be fruitful for the special sciences; the theory of irreducible modal aspects has had the greatest influence in this respect. Although accounts differ, it is customary to distinguish fifteen modal aspects which evince the ways or modes we experience reality. These are: numerical, spatial, kinematic, physical, organic, psychical, logical, historical, linguistic, social, economic, aesthetic, legal, moral and mystical. Each mode expresses itself in all the other modes through analogies within the mode that either \"anticipate\" later modes or “retrocipate” earlier modes. Any non-reductionist account of reality must acknowledge the particular ways each entity, action or process function within all of the modal aspects or else fall, once again, into antinomies (see Dooyeweerd 1997 Vol.2).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42578966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42578966", "title": "Saifuddin Jalal", "text": "Saifuddin Jalal\n\nSaifuddin Jalal (born 22 March 1958 in Kabul), pseudonym Mayparast Jalal, nickname Saiffi Jalal, is an Afghan philosopher, writer and poet.\n\nJalal is the oldest son of the painter and poet Jalaluddin Jalal (born 15 October 1923 in Kabul; died 1977 also there) and a grandson of the tresaurer Masdjidi Khan. He grew up with four siblings in an Afghan intellectual family. He and his siblings live in Europe and U.S.A. His sister Tubah Jalal is also a poet.\n\nAfter finishing school, he became a civil servant in the Afghan Ministry of Mines and Industry. He lives since 1980 in Hamburg, Germany. In the year 2012 he published a book in Kabul with the title \"God isn't a democrat.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7221187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7221187", "title": "Seven Types of Ambiguity", "text": "Seven Types of Ambiguity\n\nSeven Types of Ambiguity is a work of literary criticism by William Empson which was first published in 1930. It was one of the most influential critical works of the 20th century and was a key foundation work in the formation of the New Criticism school. The book is organized around seven types of ambiguity that Empson finds in the poetry he criticises. The second edition (revised) was published by Chatto & Windus, London, 1947, and there was another revised edition in 1953. The first printing in America was by New Directions in 1947.\n\n\"Seven Types of Ambiguity\" ushered in New Criticism in the United States. The book is a guide to a style of literary criticism practiced by Empson. An ambiguity is represented as a puzzle to Empson. We have ambiguity when \"alternative views might be taken without sheer misreading.\" Empson reads poetry as an exploration of conflicts within the author.\n\n"}
{"id": "1402693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1402693", "title": "Socialist Party of Azania", "text": "Socialist Party of Azania\n\nThe Socialist Party of Azania (SOPA) is a Scientific Socialist, Black Consciousness political party in South Africa. In the 2004 general elections, it received 0.1% of the vote and no legislatorial seats at either the national or provincial levels.\n\nThe party was formed on 21 March 1998. It was branched from the Azanian People's Organisation. The forefathers of the party were also founding members of the 1970s Black Consciousness Movement which was led by Steve Biko. Among noted members of SOPA are Asha Moodley, Steven Peter, Rose Ngwenya, Dr. Gomoleo Mokae, Tiyani Lybon Mabasa, Musa Kunta Mohamed, Phineas Malapela, Patrick Mkhize, Console Tleane, Ashraf Jooma and the late Strini Moodley.\n\nSOPA's ideological framework is a blend of Bikoist Black Consciousness and Marxism-Leninism. Following from this framework, SOPA argues that the end of apartheid in the 1990s did not truly liberate Black people in South Africa (which the party refers to as Azania), but that instead the post-apartheid South African state – led by the African National Congress (ANC) – has allowed the continuing cultural, social and economic dominance of white South Africans. This, the party argues, is due to the ANC having sold out to white capital. In the Bikoist terminology used by the party, those in power through the ANC can be said to be \"non-whites\" as, in Biko's words their \"aspiration is whiteness\" and only their \"pigmentation makes attainment of this impossible\", as opposed to Blacks who \"are those who can manage to hold their heads high in defiance rather than willingly surrender their souls to the white man\". The party therefore calls for Black political leadership which stands in solidarity with the Black population of the country.\n\nIt is SOPA's perspective that to liberate the poorest of the black majority of population from despair, the working class must lead a proletarian revolution which will abolish the system based upon the private ownership of fundamental means of production, and result in the redistribution of land and nationalisation of basic industries. This plan would, according to theory, reverse the detrimental economic legacy of \"apartheid\" and colonialism, which SOPA claims has left black South Africans inherently disadvantaged.\n\nIn 1998, leading SOPA figures participated in an international Tribunal on Africa, \"to judge those responsible for the murderous course imposed on the workers and peoples of Africa.\" The Tribunal held that economic policies affecting Africa – as formulated by such international institutions as the World Bank, World Trade Organization, and International Monetary Fund, and the co-operation of what SOPA sees as neocolonial governments like that of the African National Congress – have led to disastrous living conditions for the majority of Africans. SOPA regards such policies and practices as imperialism on behalf of multinational corporations.\n\nThe party has had regular negotiations with AZAPO aimed at merging the two parties but these broke down in 2004, 2007 and again in 2013.\n\nThe current president of SOPA is Lybon Masaba. In the 2004 elections, SOPA received 0.1% of the vote. The party is affiliated with the International Liaison Committee for a Workers' International. Although party members include socialists of different stripes, some of its most influential members are Trotskyists, and they comprise the Azanian Section of the reproclaimed Fourth International.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33210860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33210860", "title": "Somatocentrism", "text": "Somatocentrism\n\nSomatocentrism is a cultural value system in which biological determinism is the basis for social organization. The phenotypical variation of an individual in this system determines the individual’s social identity and social relations, although it doesn’t necessarily denote their social position. \n\nThe term ‘somatocentric’ is derived from \nIn this system, the physical body of an individual is heavily emphasized, and valued in determining the social identity of the individual.\n\nA necessary precondition for individuals in a somatocentric system is the privileging of sight over other senses in perceiving reality. Using vision as the primary sense for constructing reality may cause one to miss complex and hidden nuances of existence, limiting perception. A comparison of sight and hearing shows that sight is mono-directional and exclusive, while sound is proximate, fluid, and inclusive.\n\nPrivileging sight over other senses facilitates a type of self-image that focus on the individual's body, as vision is the primary means to delineate phenotypical difference. Identifying these differences this way may lead to attributing social value to individuals who look a certain way.\n\nBody image is a subjective picture of one’s own physical appearance established both by self-awareness and by noting the reactions of others. Preoccupation with body image and the physical appearance of one’s body denotes how much value one ascribes to their phenotypical traits. Body image may be valued highly, and more often than not, dissatisfaction with one’s own body image perverts that value with other social effects.\n\nPeople who suffer from Body Dysmorphic Disorder (or BDD) fixate on a defect in their appearance. People with BDD are affected daily with stress and anxiety, which may impair their role in the social and occupational areas of their life. The amount of social value ascribed to the importance of body image affects the level of stress someone suffering from BDD feels. \nStudies show that in some cultures, people who are relatively taller than others get relatively better treatment by their peers. \n\nA study conducted in Australia found that tall people earn higher wages than their equally competent shorter co-workers. A study conducted in Southampton of ninety two normal teens who were shorter than their peers revealed that the shorter boys were twice as likely to be bullied than their average height controls matched by sex and age. The findings of these studies reveal a correlation between height and social value, indicating somatocentric issues.\n\nThe American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists define ‘short stature’ as being two standard deviations below the average for a particular age and sex; in America, a male shorter than 5’7’’ and a female shorter than 5’2’’ are both short statured. Groups have been formed by people who feel short, such as The National Organization of Short Statured Adults (NOSSA). One of the primary functions of this group is to inform its members of the sociological and psychological aspects of being short statured as research continues.\n\nRacism is defined by a belief that race is the primary determinant of human traits and capacities and that racial differences produce an inherent superiority of a particular race. Racial differences are most easily compared by the phenotypical differences between peoples of a different race, i.e. skin tone, facial features, hair color, and body type. To place social value on any trait, whether positive or negative, is a product of somatocentric values.\n\nA somatocentric culture may create social constructs based on the interpretation of biological differences between its individuals. The concept of ‘gender’ is an example of a construct that may arise from somatocentricity. Sex and gender are loosely related as they both deal with the male and the female; however, one considers empirical distinction, while the other considers social distinction.\n\nA sex refers to biological distinctions between males and females. Certain biological structures are unique to either females or males; in humans, the ovary being unique to the former, the prostate gland being unique to the latter. Biological differences between males and females govern the action of reproduction in any species that repopulates via sexual reproduction, and in some cases, influence the action of child-rearing.\n\nBy contrast, gender roles, gender identities, and the concepts of masculine and feminine are all social constructs which may be extrapolated from phenotypical differences between men and women.\n\nFor example, in Western culture, women may fill domestic social roles, with an emphasis on childcare. Women are also unique members of a population that are outfitted with breasts which help feed infants, while men lack these organs. While it is logical to assert that women may be biologically better suited for postnatal care of an infant than men, it does not follow from the ability to breast-feed that women are better suited to domestic social roles than men.\n\nMasculinity and femininity are also engendered concepts that may draw from phenotypical difference between male and female. A person who exhibits physical strength may be deemed masculine, while a person who exhibits gentleness may be deemed feminine. Attributing significance to the phenotypical difference between the size or shape of men and women creates a binary between the two that allows the casual observer to presume social significance of a person in terms of this arbitrary scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "1126849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126849", "title": "Summum bonum", "text": "Summum bonum\n\nSummum bonum is a Latin expression meaning \"the highest good\", which was introduced by the Roman philosopher Cicero, to correspond to the Idea of the Good in ancient Greek philosophy. The \"summum bonum\" is generally thought of as being an end in itself, and at the same time containing all other goods.\n\nThe term was used in medieval philosophy. In the Thomist synthesis of Aristotelianism and Christianity, the highest good is usually defined as the life of the righteous and/or the life led in communion with God and according to God's precepts. In Kantianism, it was used to describe the ultimate importance, the singular and overriding end which human beings ought to pursue.\n\nPlato's \"The Republic\" argued that, \"In the world of knowledge the idea of good appears last of all, and is seen...to be the universal author of all things beautiful and right\". Silent contemplation was the route to appreciation of the Idea of the Good.\n\nAristotle in his \"Nicomachean Ethics\" accepted that the target of human activity, \"Must be the 'Good', that is, the supreme good.\", but challenged Plato's Idea of the Good with the pragmatic question: \"Will one who has had a vision of the Idea itself become thereby a better doctor or general?\". However, arguably at least, Aristotle's concept of the unmoved mover owed much to Plato's Idea of the Good.\n\nPhilo of Alexandria conflated the Old Testament God with the unmoved mover and the Idea of the Good. Plotinus, the neoplatonic philosopher, built on Plato's Good for his concept of the supreme One, while Plutarch drew on Zoroastrianism to develop his eternal principle of good.\n\nAugustine of Hippo in his early writings offered the summum bonum as the highest human goal, but was later to identify it as a feature of the Christian God in \"De natura boni\" (\"On the Nature of Good\", c. 399). Augustine denies the positive existence of absolute evil, describing a world with God as the supreme good at the center, and defining different grades of evil as different stages of remoteness from that center.\n\nThe summum bonum has continued to be a focus of attention in Western philosophy, secular and religious. Hegel replaced Plato's dialectical ascent to the Good by his own dialectical ascent to the Real.\n\nG. E. Moore placed the highest good in personal relations and the contemplation of beauty – even if not all his followers in the Bloomsbury Group may have appreciated what Clive Bell called his \"all-important distinction between 'Good on the whole' and 'Good as a whole'\".\n\nLacan considered that \"the sovereign good, if this confusing term must be retained, can be found again only at the level of the law\", i.e. the symbolic order, offsetting Kant with De Sade to undercut nobler but one-dimensional notions of the Good. Earlier he had regretted the way the psychoanalyst must know, \"Not only doesn't he have that Sovereign Good that is asked of him, but he also knows there isn't any\".\n\nJudgments on the highest good have generally fallen into four categories:\n\n"}
{"id": "404087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404087", "title": "Surak", "text": "Surak\n\nSurak is a fictional character in the backstory of the \"Star Trek\" television series and franchises. He is portrayed as the most important philosopher in the history of the planet Vulcan. During an Earth-like \"modern age\", when the Vulcans are technological but emotionally driven and violent, Surak founds a movement which reforms the Vulcan way of thinking and lifestyle and leads to the world of logically-reasoning and emotion-repressing Vulcans known from the TV series. This period in Vulcan history is referred to as the \"Time of Awakening\".\n\nThe \"Time of Awakening\" is accompanied by violence unmatched in Vulcan history, according to the \"\" episode \"\" (wherein Surak's mind is resurrected 1,800 years after his death to restore to modern Vulcans an uncorrupted version of his original philosophy.) During the \"Time of Awakening\" a Vulcan schism of those who \"sought a return to savage ways\" and \"marched beneath the raptor's wings\" (later the symbol of the Romulan people) perpetrate a cataclysmic nuclear attack upon Surak and his enlightened society. Soon after Surak's death, these Vulcan recidivists abandon their homeworld to colonize the planets Romulus and Remus. The new society would come to be known as the Romulan Star Empire—where Surak's philosophy of peace and logic survives only as an underground movement within their emotional, warlike society for the next 2,000 years (until further shepherded, in the \"\" episode \"\", by the elderly Ambassador Spock in the role of a latter-day successor to Surak), while flourishing on Vulcan to become its predominant philosophy.\n\nThe \"Time of Awakening\" and its \"ironic violence\" noted by Surak, which ends in nuclear holocaust but philosophical maturity, was written by \"Star Trek\" creators with intentional parallels to modern human society—particularly its historical progression toward cultural enlightenment, reason and tolerance interrupted by extreme bouts of cultural regression, irrationalism and fanatical violence.\n\nThe character of Surak in the \"Star Trek\" television series backstory, after up-ending the Vulcan people's violent tribalism with a philosophy of communal commitment to reason and logic, dies in the 4th century AD (based upon Earth's calendar, approximately 1,800 years before the events of the \"Star Trek: Enterprise\" episode \"Awakening\"), apparently of radiation poisoning caused by a nuclear attack that devastates Vulcan. His spirit, or katra, is transferred into a crystalline urn which remains entombed and undisturbed until its rediscovery after two millennia by a Vulcan character, Syrran, in the 22nd century. Syrran places Surak's katra within his own mind, which leads Syrran to create a group called Syrranites dedicated to returning Vulcan civilization to the true teachings of Surak. A decade later, in 2154 prior to the outbreak of impending Vulcan civil war, Syrran is killed while escorting the characters of Captain Jonathan Archer and T'Pol to his group's headquarters in the Vulcan Forge. Before dying of his wounds, Syrran places Surak's katra into Archer's mind.\n\nExperiencing a hallucination (or vision), Archer finds himself conversing with Surak within his own mind. Together, they witness the nuclear explosion that had occurred on Vulcan 1,800 years earlier, causing Surak's apparent death by radiation poisoning. It is implied that those elements responsible for setting off the nuclear attack are a splinter group of Vulcans that reject Surak's philosophy and go on to form the Romulan Empire.\n\nA subsequent attempt to transfer Surak's katra to Syrran's second-in-command, T'Pau, fails when Surak chooses to remain merged with Jonathan Archer. Once again conversing with Archer inside his mind, Surak instructs him to recover an artifact called the \"Kir'Shara\", which Surak claims will unite the warring factions on latter-day Vulcan. It is unscripted whether Surak himself creates this artifact, or whether it is later created by other Vulcans who carry his katra. The \"Kir'Shara\" is a holographic projector of the philosopher's original, long-lost testament—capable of restoring Vulcan society to the \"true path\" of non-violence and logic. Archer and T'Pau succeed in taking the artifact to the corrupt Vulcan High Command in the \"Star Trek: Enterprise\" episode \"Kir'Shara\", resulting in its overthrow. Surak's katra is subsequently transferred into the mind of an elderly Vulcan priest; what becomes of his katra afterwards in the \"Star Trek\" backstory is, as yet, unscripted.\n\nStar Trek author Diane Duane explored Surak's backstory from the character's own perspective, in the novel \"Spock's World\" – which depicts Surak's initial awakening and internet-dissemination of his philosophy after leaving his job as a computer programmer in response to a nuclear explosion from a war between mining conglomerates that spreads to T'Khut, Vulcan's \"moon\" (in reality, Vulcan's smaller binary planet). In the character's depicted internal struggle, Surak conquers his own xenophobia, becomes \"awake\" to the horrors of war, and develops the pluralistic rationalist philosophy of IDIC (\"Infinite Diversity in Infinite Combinations\") plus logic that ultimately brings peace to Vulcan.\n\nThe character names of many latter-day Vulcan males begin with \"S\" and end in \"k\", perhaps to honor Surak, though some Vulcan character names do not fit this formula (e.g. Tuvok).\n\nA character representing a physical re-creation of the \"historical Surak\" in his youthful maturity—fashioned by advanced alien technology from telepathically-recorded recollections and expectations held by Mr. Spock, appears in the episode \"The Savage Curtain\", and is portrayed by the actor Barry Atwater. The vision of a more elderly Surak appearing in the mind of the character of Captain Jonathan Archer is portrayed by the actor Bruce Gray.\n\nThe only specific mention of the character of Surak in the 24th century period of the \"Star Trek\" saga is in the \"\" episode \"In the Cards\", where the character of the Ferengi trader, Quark, hawks a bracelet \"from the time of Surak\".\n\nThe fictional Surak's philosophy of rationalism with emotional mastery and its role as a cornerstone of Vulcan and Starfleet mythos has contributed a distinct philosophical component to the broader cultural influence of \"Star Trek\". Similar to the anecdotal testimonies that \"Star Trek\" has inspired many of its viewers to become scientists or engineers, other viewers have adopted Starfleet- or Surak-inspired personal philosophies and lifestyles and founded fan-based (such as STARFLEET International) or \"IDIC plus logic\" philosophy-inspired \"pluralistic rationalist\" organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1381742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381742", "title": "Svetozar Marković", "text": "Svetozar Marković\n\nSvetozar Marković (, ; 9 September 1846 – 26 February 1875) was an influential Serbian political activist, literary critic and philosopher. He developed an activistic anthropological philosophy with a definite program of social change. He was called the Serbian Nikolay Dobrolyubov.\n\nMarković was born in the town of Zaječar on 9 September 1846, the son of a police clerk. Marković's childhood was spent in the village of Rekovac and then the town of Jagodina. The family moved to Kragujevac in 1856. He reached adolescence at about the time Mihailo Obrenović became the Prince of Serbia. In 1860 he began to study at the gymnasium in Belgrade and in 1863 at the Grande École of Belgrade, the highest educational body in Serbia at that time, founded in 1808.\n\nWhile at the Grande École he became interested in literature and politics, falling under the influences of Vuk Karadžić and Vladimir Jovanović, a leading Serbian Liberal. Because of his outstanding record as a student at the Belgrade college, his professors unanimously nominated him for a post-graduate scholarship to study abroad. He chose to study in Russia, in St. Petersburg in particular. For the next three years, he lived in Russia and came under the influence of Russian radicals of the 1860s, but his political agitation forced him to leave Russia for Switzerland. At the \"ETH Zurich\", a STEM university in the City of Zurich, Marković resumed his interrupted studies and in his spare time continued to write articles on social and political issues. There too, politics got in the way of his studies, and when his scholarship was suspended, he returned to Belgrade with new ideas. Marković immediately began attracting attention and from 1868 until his early death, became one of the leading figures in Serbia's quest to reclaim its lost ancestral territories and enter into the comity of nations.\n\nIn 1866, he received a scholarship to study at the Alexander I Institute of Communication Engineers in St. Petersburg. Here he became involved with the Russian socialist underground who, in the main, were followers of the agrarian socialists Nikolai Chernyshevsky, who wrote and edited Nikolay Nekrasov's \"The Contemporary\" magazine. There he also met Dmitry Pisarev and Lyuben Karavelov, who in the autumn of 1876 took part as a volunteer in the Serbian campaign against the Ottomans, and subsequently joined the Bulgarian irregular contingent with the Russian army in the war of 1877–78. Together with a few other men of birth and education, Mikhail Katkov, Konstantin Pobedonostsev, and Alexey Suverin, Marković began secretly to sow the sentiments of democracy among the peasants. His sympathetic nature was influenced by indignation against the brutal methods adopted towards activists, especially political prisoners, and by the stern measures which the authorities felt compelled to adopt in order to repress the revolutionary movement. His indignation carried him into accord for a time with those who advocated the acceptance of constitutional methods. In consequence he exposed himself to danger by remaining in Russia, and in 1869 he was obliged to leave the country. In March of that year he left Russia, suspecting, rightly, that he was in danger of being arrested by the Russian authorities for his socialist sympathies with the revolutionaries. He succeeded in making his escape—possibly he was permitted to leave on account of his youth and immediately began a more rigorous campaign against autocracy. He settled for a time in Switzerland, then known as the haven of revolutionary leaders, such as Johann Philipp Becker and others. He resumed his studies at \"Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zurich\" (better known as \"ETH Zurich\") but after a semester or two, after criticizing Serbia's Jovan Ristić and Milivoje Petrović Blaznavac, he lost his scholarship. He then abandoned his education and went back to Serbia, where he met journalist Pera Todorović, one of the future founders of the 'People's Radical Party and his wife journalist Milica Ninković, and other young intellectuals who wanted to make a change.\n\nShortly after he arrived, he gathered a small group of students, which included the future Radical leader Nikola Pašić. At the time, Serbia was ruled by a regency on behalf of Prince Milan, in place since 1868. In the spring of 1869, the Serbian Liberal Party signed an accord with the Regency and a constitution with a toothless assembly was set up. Marković denounced this deal as a sellout and formed a minuscule radical party.\n\nMarković now sought to wrest control of the youth wing \"Omladina\" from the Liberal Party. The Congress of Omladina met in late August 1870 in the Serbian city of Novi Sad, which in those days was in the hands of Austria-Hungary yet close to the then Serbian border. Marković and his fellow radicals proposed a resolution calling for decentralization and a number of social measures which began with: \"The solution of the nationality problem in Austria-Hungary, and the Eastern Question, on the principle of 'free humanity'.\"\n\nVladimir Jovanović's liberal supporters countered with a call for an aggressive foreign policy saying that domestic policies had to take second place to unification of the South Slavs. A compromise was reached calling for decentralization and an expansionist foreign policy.\n\nOn 1 June 1871, Marković launched Serbia's first socialist newspaper with Đura Ljočić as editor. The paper, \"Radenik\" (\"The Worker\") struck a careful balance between outspokenness while avoiding printing anything that would get it banned. The paper proved very successful. It was soon being denounced by the establishment as the first socialist paper in the Balkans. A group of deputies of the Serbian National Assembly accused \"Radenik\" of propagating communism \"thus striking at the very foundations of the state; faith morals and property.\"\n\nIn March 1872, the government decided to arrest Marković however, warned in advance, he escaped across the Sava into Hungarian territory. Finally \"Radenik\" overstepped the mark once too often when it published an article in which Christ was described as a communist and a revolutionary. Using that as a pretext, the government banned the paper in May 1872 for blasphemy and treason.\n\nIn \"Realni Pravac u Nauci i Zivotu\" (\"The Real Trend in Science and Life\") which appeared in \"Letopis Matice Srpske\", (1871–72) and other works, he developed an activistic anthropological philosophy with a definite program of social change. By this time the ideas of Stankevich, Chernyshevsky, Dobrolyubov, Pisarev and other Russian revolutionary democrats, the materialistic philosophies of Buchner, Vogt, and Moleschott, and the revolutionary theories of Darwin and Spencer had gained considerable ground among Serbian intellectuals. He emphasized the role of science and of an educated minority in the historical process. He held that there are objective laws governing social progress but that they depend on the laws of human nature, which can be discovered by an analysis of the history of mankind. Genuine intellectuals help their people to become aware of their sufferings and their real needs and to produce a radical change in their conditions. A social revolution, therefore, presupposes the total intellectual power of the people. In time, Ljubomir Nedić, another philosopher and literary critic, took issue with Marković's premise.\n\nHe opened his literary career in June 1872 by a work on \"Srbija na istoku\" (\"Serbia in the East\"), published in Novi Sad, wherein he analyses the history of Serbia, interpreting the Serbian society before the First Serbian Uprising of 1804 as a society divided not so much on religious lines as by class. Marković argued that the Serbian revolt against the Ottomans had a social character rather than a religious one. He saw the social organization of the Serbian peasants who played the leading role in eventual successful overthrow of Ottoman rule as insufficient to prevent the new state becoming a despotism which soon brought to life a parasitic bureaucracy.\n\nMarković argued that growth of Serbia while this bureaucracy was in control would not lead to greater freedom, but merely strengthen the power of that bureaucracy. As an alternative to this Marković advocated democratic federalism. Marković idealized the old Balkan family structure, the zadruga, and believed that the state should merely serve to coordinate the activities of \"opštine\", or small communities organized on the \"zadruga\" principle. In fact, he preferred a federal and revolutionary Serbia:\n\nAt the time Marković was making an intensive study of socialism. And, from this framework for an analyses of Serbia came the basis for the growth of a movement of which Marković became the spiritual father and which years later, according to some, would become the Serbian Democratic Party under the leadership of Dimitrije Tucović.\n\nAs an exile, Marković had carried on his former line of thought and activity. Owing to his political activities in Novi Sad, Marković was expelled by the Hungarian authorities, but was promptly arrested upon his arrival in Serbia. He was already known in Eastern Europe by his book, \"Serbia in the East\", which had been published recently (1872). The new Prime Minister, Jovan Ristić, immediately released him. Ristić owed his position to the whim of Prince Milan, and as a result, was opposed by both the liberals and the conservatives. Ristić hoped that releasing Marković would keep the socialists off his back.\n\nOn 8 November 1873, a new newspaper, \"Javnost\" (\"The Public\") began publication in Kragujevac with Marković as editor. Marković was initially quite gentle on the new conservative government that had come to power only a few weeks before \"Javnost\" began publication.\n\n\"Javnost\"'s criticism quickly became more strident. The government lost patience and on 8 January 1874, Marković was arrested, even though he had handed over editorship by then. In the meanwhile, his supporters were running another newspaper, \"Glas Javnosti\", which was started in anticipation of \"Javnost\" being banned.\n\nMarković had been in ill health for some time and being kept in a damp, poorly heated cell in a Požarevac gaol made matters worse. His trial for \"press crimes\" began on 19 February 1874.\n\nDefending himself against the charges that he had \"insulted\" the National Assembly by dismissing it as a mere debating society, Marković answered that he had written the truth. He then launched into a defense of the freedom of the press. On the charge that he had defended the right of the people \"to overthrow a prince who does them evil and replace him with a good one\", he denied that this was a call for revolution. He had been talking in the abstract.\n\n16 years before the Marković trial, the Serbian people and the National Assembly exercised this right and in 1858 deposed Prince Alexander Karađorđević and recalled the reigning prince's father, Miloš Obrenović to the throne.\n\nThe trial attracted a large audience, including many of the local peasants. As a result of the trial Marković became a symbol of the growing discontent against the government. Marković's conviction was a foregone conclusion but the sentence, 18 months in prison, was relatively light. However, by now his general health problems had developed into full blown tuberculosis. The sentence was further reduced to nine months; it was far from certain that he would survive his term in prison. He was released on 16 November 1874, and went to Jagodina to convalesce.\n\nDuring Marković's imprisonment and building on the publicity created by Marković's trial, for the first time socialists succeed in getting elected to the National Assembly and small but vocal group, advocating Marković's ideas, formed round the Serb from Croatia, Adam Bogosavljević. Ignoring warnings that he needed to recover his health first, Marković was unable to stay in the background. On 1 January 1875 \"Oslobođenje\" (\"Liberation\") came out, with Marković at the helm. He was as outspoken as ever at a time when harassment of socialists was in full swing.\n\nWhen, however, the police told him he had the choice either to submit to arrest or leave Serbia, he chose the latter. This time he had no illusions that prison would be anything other than a death sentence.\n\nMarković caught a Danube steamer for Vienna. Here the doctors told him that there was little hope for him, and they recommended he go to Dalmatia where the climate was warmer. He reached Trieste but collapsed in his hotel. He did not recover and died on 26 February 1875, at the age of 28. He is buried in Jagodina where he spent most of his youth.\n\nA major literary critic of this time was Svetozar Marković, who was also the first to introduce the doctrine of social reform among the Serbs. In contrast to previous trends, he believed that literature should actively serve the needs of the majority of the people and deal with the basic problems of everyday life. The acknowledged catalyst of the new trend, Svetozar Marković's influence was an indirect one; he was primarily a social and political thinker and publicist. In the 1870s Marković in Serbia and Vaso Pelagić in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia were what their teachers Chernishevsky, Dobrolyubov, and Pisarev were in Russia in the 1860s.\n\nImmediately after the war and revolution of 1870–71, the nonviolent antistatism of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon reasserted its appeal to a new and chastened generation of social revolutionaries, this movement gained a new following in agrarian southern and eastern Europe. Seminal protagonists of populism like Russia's Nikolay Mikhaylovsky and Serbia's Svetozar Marković translated the works of Proudhon. Marković in particular exerted tremendous influence on his contemporaries recommending them to be positivists in science, republicans in politics, and realists or rather utiliterians in literature. He proudly subscribed to the realistic novels of Jakov Ignjatović. Practically all the new writers — Milovan Glišić, Laza Lazarević, Janko Veselinović, and Simo Matavulj, to name only the best, were in one way or another under the influence of realism, including Jaša Tomić and poet Vladimir M. Jovanović (1859–1898). Under Marković's influence, Glišić undertook to translate Gogol's \"Dead Souls\" and Tolstoy's \"War and Peace\".\n\nIn the elections of 1875 the socialist-radicals made significant gains and were for a time a significant force in Serbian politics. It was not however able to stay united in the long term. In 1881 Nikola Pašić and other followers of Marković founded a new radical party.\n\nSocialist ideas of Svetozar Marković lived after him. For example, Jovan Skerlić began to work for various socialist and opposition newspapers, such as \"Socijaldemokrat\" (\"Social Democrat\"), \"Radničke novine\" (\"Worker's Herald\"), and \"Delo\" (\"Work\").\n\nAltogether, Marković ought to be seen as a thinker of depth and originality, independence and earnestness, whose short and difficult life did much towards the knowledge and appreciation of Serbian thought. Many Serbian traditionalists regard him as the heretic and a dangerous modernist. There is no doubt that when he treats more purely theological questions he sometimes lays himself open to a charge of that kind. Marković is at his best and surest in the philosophy of history and in ethics. He is the chief representative of an important philosophical school of which many members whose thought is largely occupied with the nature and destiny of man and society—a school which is not without a certain influence on Christians.\n\nThe Socialism of the new radical party did not survive the failure of the 1883–1884 Timok uprising, after which the radicals repackaged themselves as a nationalist party. For the Yugoslav communists, Marković was merely a Utopian. Nevertheless, his writings (extensive considering how young he died) remained influential even though no political party claimed to follow in his footsteps. Anarchist Krsta Cicvarić, speaking in 1920, said \"all of us in Serbia who are democrats or socialists learned the political ABC's from Marković.\"\n\nA Yugoslav film on his life, \"Svetozar Marković\", directed by Eduard Galić, was first shown in 1980. The Belgrade University Library is named after Svetozar Marković, along with numerous institutions in Serbia. He is included in The 100 most prominent Serbs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "938950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938950", "title": "Tudor Vianu", "text": "Tudor Vianu\n\nTudor Vianu (; January 8, 1898 – May 21, 1964) was a Romanian literary critic, art critic, poet, philosopher, academic, and translator. Known for his left-wing and anti-fascist convictions, he had a major role on the reception and development of Modernism in Romanian literature and art. He was married to Elena Vianu, herself a literary critic, and was the father of Ion Vianu, a well-known psychiatrist, writer and essayist.\n\nBorn in Giurgiu to a Jewish family (whose members had converted to Romanian Orthodoxy), he completed his primary and secondary education in the city, attending the Gheorghe Lazăr High School. Around 1910, he began writing poetry — which he never published.\n\nIn 1915, Vianu became a student at the Department of Philosophy and Law at the University of Bucharest. During the period, Vianu began attending Alexandru Macedonski's Symbolist literary circle, and, in 1916, he published a study on Macedonski and later his own verses in \"Flacăra\" magazine.\n\nUpon Romania's entry in World War I, he was into the Romanian Army, trained as an artillery cadet in Botoşani, and took part in the Moldavian campaign. In 1918, he returned to Bucharest, where he was editor of Macedonski's \"Literatorul\", and resumed his studies, graduating in 1919. Vianu also worked on the editorial staff for Constantin Rădulescu-Motru's \"Ideea Europeană\" and for \"Luceafărul\". In 1921, he began his long collaboration with \"Viaţa Românească\", while he contributed to Eugen Lovinescu's \"Sburătorul\".\n\nIn 1923, he obtained a doctorate in Philosophy at the Eberhard Karls University of Tübingen, with the thesis \"Das Wertungsproblem in Schiller Poetik\" (\"The Judgment of Values in Schiller's Poetics\"), his first major study in aesthetics (delivered in November 1923). The work was praised by Lucian Blaga, who was subsequently Vianu's colleague during their time as staff members for \"Gândirea\"; the two shared an appreciation of Expressionism. With Blaga, he stood for \"Gândirea\"'s early modernist tendencies, and grew opposed to Nichifor Crainic's intense advocacy of traditionalism (at a time when the magazine's editor, Cezar Petrescu, was occupying a middle position).\n\nWith the publishing of his \"Dualismul artei\" in 1925 (followed by a long succession of collections of essays and studies), Vianu secured his place in the cultural landscape of modern Romania, and became the titular professor of aesthetics at the University of Bucharest. At around the same period, he distanced himself from \"Gândirea\" (which was becoming the mouthpiece of Crainic's far right traditionalism), and instead advocated democratic government.\n\nThroughout the interwar period, Vianu was an adversary of the fascist Iron Guard, and polemized with its press (becoming the target of attacks serialized in \"Cuvântul\"). His status as a professor was in peril during the (National Legionary State established by the Guard in 1940), and he felt the imminent danger of physical assaults. Anti-Semitic authorities began alluding to his Jewish origins, and several violent remarks were aimed at him. Following the Legionary Rebellion and the Guard's defeat, he sent a congratulatory telegram to \"Conducător\" Ion Antonescu. In 1945, after the end of Antonescu's regime and World War II, he was the recipient of a letter from his friend Eugène Ionesco: the document forms a list of intellectuals whom Ionesco harshly criticized for their pro-Iron Guard activism (they include Nae Ionescu, Mircea Eliade, Emil Cioran, Constantin Noica, Dan Botta, Mircea Vulcănescu, Horia Stamatu, Paul Sterian, Mihail Polihroniade, Haig Acterian, Dumitru Cristian Amzăr, Costin Deleanu and Paul Deleanu).\n\nIn charge of Romania's National Theater in 1945, ambassador to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1946, Vianu was an honorary member of the Romanian Academy starting in 1955. He made several concessions to the new Communist authorities, which Ion Vianu has described as \"purely formal\" (an assessment shared by Ion Papuc, who argued that Vianu joined the Romanian Communist Party \"for lack of a way out\"). He gave active support to literary figures who, as former members of the Iron Guard, faced imprisonment — Vianu was a defense witness in the trial of Traian Herseni, and, with Mihai Ralea, the author of an appeal for the release of Petre Ţuţea.\n\nDuring his late years, he translated several of William Shakespeare's works into Romanian. In the beginning of summer 1964, he completed \"Arghezi, poet al omului\" (\"Arghezi, Poet of Mankind\"), carrying the subtitle \"Cântare Omului\" (\"A Chant to Mankind\"), a work in the field of comparative literature. It began printing on the very day of its author's death, which was due to a heart attack.\n\nVianu's investigations into cultural history, coupled with his vivid interest in the sociology of culture, allowed him to develop an influential philosophy, which attributed culture a seminal role in shaping human destiny. According to his views, culture, which had liberated humans from natural imperatives, was an asset that intellectuals were required to preserve by intervening in social life.\n\nIn his analysis of the Age of Enlightenment and 19th-century philosophy, Vianu celebrated Hegel for having unified the competing trends of universalist Rationalism and ethnocentric Historicism. A sizable part of his analysis was focused on the modern crisis of values, which he attributed to the inability of values to impose themselves on all individuals, and which he evidenced in the ideas of philosophers as diverse as Friedrich Nietzsche, Karl Marx, and Søren Kierkegaard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5006024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5006024", "title": "Uku Masing", "text": "Uku Masing\n\nUku Masing (born Hugo Albert Masing, 11 August 1909 – 25 April 1985) was an Estonian philosopher. He was a significant figure in Estonian religious philosophy. Masing also wrote poetry, mostly on religious issues. Masing authored one novel, \"Rapanui vabastamine ehk Kajakad jumalate kalmistul\" (Liberation of Rapanui, or Seagulls at the Cemetery of Gods) in the late 1930s, which was published posthumously in 1989. As a folklorist, he was a distinguished researcher of fairy tales, contributing to the international \"Encyclopedia of the Folktale\". He was awarded the Righteous Among The Nations by Yad Vashem and the Israeli Supreme Court for his participation during the Holocaust in helping a Jew in Estonia escape capture from 1941 until the end of the war. His actions exposed him to great danger during this period requiring him to meet with his friend as well as lying to the Gestapo.\n\nMasing was born in Lipa village, Raikküla Parish, Rapla County, on 11 August 1909 as Hugo Albert Masing. His parents were Ado Masing and Anna Masing. He had one sibling, a younger sister named Agnes Masing (married surname, Saag) born in 1911. A gifted polyglot, he was able to speak four languages by the end of secondary school and forty by the end of his life. He started to study theology at the University of Tartu in 1926. During his time there and after the graduation he published numerous poems, translations, and essays. His most famous work was in 1935 with the publication of \"Promontories Into the Gulf of Rains\" (Estonian: \"Neemed vihmade lahte\").\n\nMasing was a member of the influential group of Estonian poets brought together in 1938 by literary scholar Ants Oras, who was greatly influenced by T. S. Eliot. The small circle of poets became known as \"Arbujad\" (\"Soothsayers\") and included Heiti Talvik, Betti Alver, Paul Viiding, Mart Raud, Bernard Kangro, August Sang and Kersti Merilaas.\n\nAt his peak Masing was able to speak around 65 languages with the ability to translate from 20 of them. In particular. he was known for his ability to translate straight from original Hebrew, occidental European and oriental languages into Estonian. Such was his prolific nature it is estimated over 10,000 pages of his manuscripts have yet to be published. Masing was known for his anti-German sentiment, that was the core of what at times was Masing's general dislike of the Indo-European people (whom he sometimes called 'ethnic garbage' and referred to as Indo-Germanic people).\n\nMasing lectured at the University of Tartu in Estonia, where he was known as a brilliant teacher of theology and Semitic languages, if somewhat eccentric. After the German invasion of Estonia in World War II he gave up his teaching post at the university and devoted his time to protecting and salvaging Jewish cultural and religious items.\n\nMasing knew the Jewish folklorist, narrative researcher and theologian Isidor Levin from his teaching days, and decided to hide him from the Germans who most certainly would have brought him to death. Masing and his wife Eha helped Levin evade capture by supplying him with food, shelter, clothing and even forged documents, while on occasions lying to the Gestapo about knowledge of Isidor. For these actions, Masing and his wife were honoured as Righteous Among the Nations. After the war, Masing also took part in investigating Nazi war crimes, in particular the Klooga concentration camp where many Jews had been killed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50296684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50296684", "title": "Uncertainty and quality in science for policy", "text": "Uncertainty and quality in science for policy\n\nUncertainty and quality in science for policy is a 1990 book by Silvio Funtowicz and Jerome Ravetz, in which the authors explain the notational system NUSAP (Numeral, Unit, Spread, Assessment, Pedigree) and applies it to several examples from the environmental sciences. The work is considered foundational to the development of Post-normal science.\n\nThis work written by the fathers of Post-normal science discusses the use of science for policy and its problems. The book emphasizes the need for craft skills with numbers – not only in statistics but also in cost-benefit analysis, and on the need of specific skills for policy-related research. It introduces for the first time NUSAP, a new notational system for the management of uncertainty and quality in quantitative information, and presents examples of its application to radiological hazards, the valuation of ecosystems, and to energy technologies. \nThis work is one of the most quoted in the field of science and technology studies - see also Science, technology and society (STS), especially relation to the issue of ‘democratization of expertise’. For Carrozza (2015) and Gooday (2006) \nthis work, together with Ravetz's \"Scientific Knowledge and Its Social Problems\" (1971) constitutes the bedrock for the conceptualization \nPost- normal science in the first half of the 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1528243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1528243", "title": "Vicente Lombardo Toledano", "text": "Vicente Lombardo Toledano\n\nVicente Lombardo Toledano (July 16, 1894 – November 16, 1968) was one of the foremost Mexican labor leaders of the 20th century, and called \"the dean of Mexican Marxism [and] the best-known link between Mexico and the international world of Marxism and socialism,\" In 1936 he founded the Confederation of Mexican Workers (CTM), the national labor federation most closely associated with the ruling party founded by President Lázaro Cárdenas, the Party of the Mexican Revolution (PRM). Purged from the union after World War II, Lombardo Toledano co-founded, along with Narciso Bassols, the political party, \"Partido Popular\", later known as the Partido Popular Socialista.\n\nLombardo Toledano was born in Teziutlán, Puebla, to middle-class parents of Sephardic Jewish descent from Spain and Italy. After obtaining his law degree from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) in 1919, he pursued a master's degree in philosophy and letters there, and he began teaching at both the Popular University and at UNAM. He taught at UNAM until 1933 and it was there that he became a member of an informal group known as \"los siete sabios\" (the seven sages). It was while teaching there he helped organize a teachers' union. In 1921 he joined the Labor Party.\n\nAs leader of that teachers' union he entered the Confederación Regional Obrera Mexicana (CROM), the largest and most powerful union confederation of the day and a key supporter of the regimes of Plutarco Elías Calles and Álvaro Obregón. Lombardo Toledano served as the house intellectual for CROM, not benefiting directly from its corruption, but acquiring access to power instead. Lombardo Toledano served as interim Governor of Puebla in 1923, was a councilman in the Federal District in 1924 to 1925 and was a congressional deputy from 1926 to 1928.\n\nIn 1925, while he was still the councilman, he chose the day March 13th to celebrate the 600 anniversary of the founding of Tenochtitlan.\n\nCROM lost most of its influence in 1928, after a right-wing Roman Catholic associated with the \"Cristero movement\" assassinated Obregón. Lombardo Toledano left CROM and the Labor Party in 1932. He had organized a faction called \"Purified CROM\" that left the CROM \"en masse\" in 1932, which left the CROM representing only a few unions in the textile industry. The Purified CROM became the Confederation of Mexican Workers (CTM) in 1936, allying with the populist President Lázaro Cárdenas and the ruling Party of the Mexican Revolution (PRM), a rival to the Labor Party associated with CROM. Lombardo Toledano was the secretary general of the CTM from 1936 to 1940.\n\nOutside the CROM, Lombardo Toledano began to build a rival federation that combined his \"purified\" CROM with other labor groups, Among the first with whom he allied was the Confederación Sindical de Trabajadores del Distrito Federal, a union that included among its members not only low-wage workers, but professionals, strikebreakers, some street vendors and other members of the informal economy. Fidel Velázquez Sánchez was one of \"los cinco lobitos\", or five wolf cubs, who led the CSTDF.\n\nWith Velázquez's group and the CGT Lombardo Toledano formed a new federation, the Confederación General de Obreros y Campesinos de México (CGOCM). That group subsequently transformed itself into the CTM in 1936.\n\nThe CTM had a strong relationship with the government of Lázaro Cárdenas del Río from its creation. While Lombardo Toledano had opposed Cárdenas' candidacy in 1934, the CTM was the chief beneficiary of Cárdenas' need for labor support for his government, after the employers of Monterrey, Nuevo León, called an employers' strike on February 5, 1936. Cárdenas led a demonstration in Monterrey in which he called for unification of the various labor organizations into one national body associated with the PRI, then named the Partido Revolucionario Mexicano. \n\nThe political crisis deepened when Calles launched a series of verbal attacks on Cárdenas that amounted to a call for his overthrow. The \"Purified\" CROM, the CSTDF, other labor bodies and the PCM rallied to defend Cárdenas. With their support Cárdenas had Calles and Morones arrested and deported that year.\n\nThe CTM was formed shortly thereafter, absorbing the major petroleum workers and railroad workers unions. It also had the support of the Mexican Communist Party (PCM) and the industrial unions it had founded. Those unions nearly walked out of the CTM twice in its early years, however— the first time at the founding convention of the CTM in 1936, when Lombardo Toledano chose Velázquez, rather than the individual from their wing who had been promised the position, as organizational secretary of the new organization and a second time the following year. In both cases, however, the unions returned under orders to accept unity at any cost as part of the party's Popular Front policy.\n\nLombardo Toledano was never, as far as it is possible to determine, a member of the PCM. He had, however, even stronger support from the Soviet Union during the Popular Front era than the nominal leaders of the PCM. Following the policy of that era, he and the CTM supported the Cárdenas administration enthusiastically, intervening to moderate union demands during the railroad and electrical workers' strikes in 1936 and the petroleum workers' strike in 1937. Lombardo Toledano and the CTM were vocal supporters for Cárdenas' nationalization of the oil industry in 1938.\n\nLombardo Toledano also formed the Confederación de Trabajadores de América Latina in 1938. John L. Lewis from the Congress of Industrial Organizations attended its founding; the U.S. American Federation of Labor boycotted it.\n\nCárdenas' successor, Manuel Ávila Camacho, had been a protégé of Cárdenas, but was more conservative. He engineered Fidel Velázquez's appointment as head of the CTM when Lombardo Toledano did not stand for reelection in 1941. Lombardo Toledano remained influential in CTM, pursuing a course of support for the war effort and opposition to strikes when Mexico entered the war against Hitler. \n\nLombardo Toledano soon fell out with the CTM and the government. Although the CTM had (along with the CGT, CROM and the electrical workers union) formally aligned in 1938 with the precursor to the Institutional Revolutionary Party, the Party of the Mexican Revolution (PRM), Lombardo Toledano concluded that the PRI, now led by Miguel Alemán Valdés, was too conservative and formed his own party, the Partido Popular, to run against it. The Partido Popular never achieved more than fringe party status; it was renamed the Partido Popular Socialista in 1960.\n\nThe CTM refused, however, to support Lombardo Toledano's new party. Fidel Velázquez formally expelled Lombardo Toledano from the CTM in 1948. Lombardo Toledano left the union, but only after delivering a bitter denunciation of those who had brought about his downfall. He also referred to himself in the first person (\"yo\") sixty-four times in that speech — a fact noted by some newspapers, which proceeded to nickname him the \"Yo-yo Champion\".\n\nLombardo Toledano launched two publications, a magazine called \"América Latina\" and a daily called \"El Popular\", while continuing to publish books, pamphlets and newspaper articles. He also founded the Workers' University in 1936, which he headed until his death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2304197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2304197", "title": "Yiduan", "text": "Yiduan\n\nYīduàn (義端) was a 12th-century Chinese monk of the Chan (禪) school of Buddhism.\n\nYiduan is notable for the saying \"Language is a sham, silence a lie, but beyond language and silence a road goes by\" (語是謗, 寂是誑, 語寂向上有路在).\n"}
