{"id": "18305607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18305607", "title": "Abbruzzi", "text": "Abbruzzi\n\nAbbruzzi is a surname of Italian origin. People with this surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3969828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3969828", "title": "Beaches of Cape Town", "text": "Beaches of Cape Town\n\nCape Town has a wide variety of beaches divided into three regions by the Cape Peninsula:\n\nThe sea in False Bay is about 6 degrees warmer than the Atlantic Seaboard and the West Coast.\n\nIn 2011, Lonely Planet listed Cape Town second in its list of the world's top 10 beach cities.\n\nA long sandy beach runs more or less uninterrupted for the complete width of False Bay from Gordon's Bay to Muizenberg, forming the coast of the Cape Flats. Along the rocky Cape Peninsula, there are frequent beautiful beaches in between the mountains of the peninsula.\n\n\nThe Atlantic side of the Cape Peninsula faces West and thus is popular for expensive homes facing the sunset views. There are many beautiful beaches below the mountains of the peninsula. \n\n\nThe West Coast beaches are long, sandy beaches to the North of Cape Town. The wind and surf conditions make these beaches popular for surfing and kite-surfing. \n\n"}
{"id": "54255340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54255340", "title": "Beaver Falls (Columbia County, Oregon)", "text": "Beaver Falls (Columbia County, Oregon)\n\nBeaver Falls, is a waterfall located on Beaver Creek near the town of Clatskanie in Columbia County, in the U.S. state of Oregon.\n\nThe waterfall is formed as Beaver Creek sheets out onto a wide channel over a 40 feet shoot at high velocity into a natural amphitheater of layered basalt. Beaver Falls Trail leads to Beaver Falls in from a trailhead on Beaver Falls Road. The waterfall and trail are surrounded by Douglas fir, western red-cedar, western hemlock, and big-leaf maple. Sword fern, Oregon grape, and salal are very common plant life growing beneath the forest canopy. \n\n"}
{"id": "18014085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18014085", "title": "Big Golden Arena for Best Film", "text": "Big Golden Arena for Best Film\n\nThe Golden Arena awards were established in 1955 as the Yugoslav national film awards presented annually at the Pula Film Festival in Pula, Croatia, with the Big Golden Arena for Best Film its main prize. From 1955 to 1990 the awards were the Yugoslav cinema equivalent of the Academy Awards. In 1991 the festival was cancelled due to the breakup of Yugoslavia, but then resumed in 1992 as the Croatian film awards festival (thereby excluding films and filmmakers from present-day Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia and Macedonia). It has been held in this format every year since, although no prizes were awarded at the 1994 edition.\n\nThe festival's competition program usually includes screenings of all locally produced feature films made in the preceding 12 months (which is made possible due to the local film industry's relatively low output), so everyone involved in making them automatically qualifies for the Golden Arena awards. Therefore, there are no Academy Award-style lists of nominees announced prior to the actual awarding ceremony. The awards are given by a jury of five or six members which is named before each festival edition by the festival's managing board, and it usually consists of prominent filmmakers and film critics.\n\nAlthough the festival was established in 1954, the award for best film was first awarded in 1957 - prior to the 1957 edition, the festival had separate critics' choice and audience awards for best film screened at the festival. Until 1990, the award was always given to the film's production company or companies, except in 1981 when the award was merged with the Golden Arena for Best Director and both the director and production companies of the winning film (\"The Fall of Italy\" by Lordan Zafranović) were credited with the award. Overall, Jadran Film of Zagreb and Avala Film of Belgrade were the most successful studios in the Yugoslav period (1957–1990) winning 11 and 8 awards respectively.\n\nIn the 1990s the award was intermittently merged with the Best Director award, until 1999 when the old format was briefly re-introduced. Between 2003 and 2007 film directors were credited with the Best Film award, while still being eligible for the separate Best Director award (although on four out of five occasions in this period the same director won both awards for the same film). Since 2008 the award is given to the film's producer.\n\nThe following table lists all films which were winners of the top three prizes in the period from 1957 to 1980. On four occasions two films shared the same prize - in 1961 and 1965 two films shared the Big Golden Arena, in 1966 two films shared the runner-up award and in 1967 two films shared the third-place award. In addition to this, the 1965 second place prize was not awarded. Shared awards are indicated with an asterisk (*).\n\n\nIn 1981 the second and third place prizes were dropped. The following table lists all winners from 1981 to 1990. The Big Golden Arena was not awarded in 1982.\n\nFollowing the breakup of Yugoslavia which began in the early 1990s and the ensuing Croatian War of Independence, the festival was cancelled in 1991. In 1992 it was re-launched as the \"Pula Film Festival\" (as opposed to the \"Festival of Yugoslav Film\" as it was known earlier). Award categories and names were unchanged, but the selection was narrowed to Croatian films only, excluding films from the other five republics of Yugoslavia. This meant that the number of films eligible for awards fell sharply, which even led to the cancellation of the 1994 award ceremony, as only one Croatian feature film had been produced in the preceding 12 months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21012175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21012175", "title": "Central Asian Flyway", "text": "Central Asian Flyway\n\nThe Central Asian Flyway (CAF), Central Asian-Indian Flyway, or Central Asian-South Asian Flyway is a flyway covering a large continental area of Eurasia between the Arctic Ocean and the Indian Ocean and the associated island chains. The CAF comprises several important migration routes of waterbirds, most of which extend from the northernmost breeding grounds in Siberia to the southernmost non-breeding wintering grounds in West Asia, India, the Maldives and the British Indian Ocean Territory.\n\nThe concept of flyway is essentially an operational concept linked to waterfowl whose populations one wishes to manage over their entire migration space.\nThe CAF range is essentially centred on one of the three major wintering areas of waterfowl in the Old World, namely the Indian subcontinent, the other two being Africa, in territory of the African-Eurasian Flyway (AEWA) to the west, and south-east Asia in the East Asian – Australasian Flyway (EAAF) to the east. These wintering areas are geographically separate, and present entirely different ecological, historical and cultural situations.<ref name=\"CMS/2007\"></ref>\n\nThe flyway covers 30 countries of North, Central and South Asia and Trans-Caucasus.<ref name=\"UNEP/CMS\"></ref> The northern catchment area of CAF inevitably overlaps, and considerably overlaps, with both those of AEWA and EAAF, mostly within a single country, the Russian Federation, though sixteen of the 30 countries encompassed by the CAF are located in the AEWA area. They are: Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, China People's Republic of, Georgia, Iran Republic of, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom Chagos Islands and Uzbekistan.\n\nThe remaining countries in the Central Asian Flyway are: Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Iraq, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Oman, Qatar and Yemen.<ref name=\"UNEP/CMS/Range\"></ref>\n\nThe Central Asian Flyway covers at least 279 migratory waterbird populations of 182 species, \nincluding 29 globally threatened species and near-threatened species that breed, migrate and spend the non-breeding winter period within the region. Species such as the \n\nIn addition, the breeding range of some species including the \n\nRegional cooperation among the Central Asian Flyway states is undertaken to promote the conservation of migratory waterbirds and their habitats. This includes various international conventions including Central Asian Waterbirds Flyway Action Plan, Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species (CMS), Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA), \nConvention on Wetlands of International Importance (Ramsar) and Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and development agencies including United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), World Bank and Asian Development Bank (ADB) and international Non-governmental organizations including BirdLife International, World Conservation Union (IUCN), World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Wetlands International who all cooperate on regional and national wildlife conservation.\n\nRegional plans complement actions that are being undertaken by national governments to promote conservation. Several countries have well established protected areas to conserve important habitats for migratory waterbirds.\n\nAccording to the Ramsar definition, more than two-thirds of the country’s landmass may be classified \nas wetlands. It is a country dominated by wetland including estuaries, mangrove swamps namely the Sundarbans, freshwater \nmarshes such as haor, swamps and rivers. There are about 628 bird species in Bangladesh, of which 244 are Migratory. About 100 species of migratory birds regularly or occasionally visit the country. Considering the present threats to waterbird conservation in the country, 31 migratory waterbird species are of high priority for future action for conservation. 14 of these species are threatened.\n\nThe wetlands are home to about 70 species of resident waterbirds including ducks, grebe, cormorants, bitterns, herons, egrets, storks, rails, jacanas, finfoot, waders, gulls, turns and skimmers. Eleven species of resident waterbirds are identified as threatened. The important threatened species are masked finfoot, Indian skimmer, black-headed ibis, greater adjutant, lesser adjutant, Baikal teal, Baer's pochard, ferruginous pochard, wood snipe, Nordmann's greenshank and spoon-billed sandpiper. \nThe wetlands of Bangladesh are being degraded rapidly due to population pressure, withdrawal of water for irrigation, destruction of swamp forest and many other anthropogenic and natural causes. Large scale habitat conversion, unsustainable harvesting policies and lack of ecological considerations have led to the destruction of valuable wetland habitat for water birds and other associated biodiversity. Immediate action is required for restoring these habitats and conserving the water birds in Bangladesh. \n\nThe Key breeding and staging areas of Bangladesh are: Haor areas such as the Meghna estuary, Tanguar haor and Hail-Hakaluki haors, Chalan Beel, the Sundarbans and other coastal mangroves including Hatia and Nijhum Dweep, haor areas of the north west and off shore Islands.\n\nThe Sundarbans mangrove forest of Bangladesh are included within of 3 Wildlife sanctuaries which are part of the Sunderbans World Heritage Site. The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) through its Department of Environment and Forest Department ‘Wildlife \nManagement and Nature Conservation Circle’ is the main institutional structure for wildlife conservation including waterbirds and their habitats. The Ministry of Land is the legal authority for land management including wetlands.\n\nBangladesh is signatory to CBD, CMS, CITES and Ramsar Convention. No national level initiative has been taken for waterbirds. But self-funded waterbird census is undertaken each year in selected habitats.\nIndia is the core country of the CAF and supports 257 species of water birds. Of these, 81 species are migratory birds of CAF conservation concern, including three critically endangered species, six endangered species and 13 near threatened species. The Ministry of Environment and Forests is the nodal agency for developing strategy and action plans and managing national, regional and international programmes on water birds and wetlands conservation. Implementation of action plans is through the states environment and forests agencies with complementing activities provided by many academic institutions, NGO-conservation organizations, professional institutions and international agencies. \nNational government institutions involved in migratory waterbirds and wetlands research/management include:. Zoological Survey of India, Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, Wildlife Institute of India, Indian Institute of Forest Management, Centre for Environment Education, Indian Institute of Economic Growth, Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research.The Bombay Natural History Society is the foremost NGO in India working on water birds and wetlands. India has identified more than 300 potential Ramsar sites, of which 25 have been implemented.\nIndia is notable among CAF countries, with an extensive series of important bird areas and protected areas including , wildlife sanctuaries and national parks in wetlands that provide convenient stopover and wintering areas for migratory birds using the Central Asian Flyway. \n\nListed from north to south along the Eastern Flyway on or near the east coast, these include: Bhitarkanika Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park, Chandka-Dampara Wildlife Sanctuary, Mangal Jodi Nalabana Bird Sanctuary, Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary and Godavari estuary, Kolleru Lake Wildlife Sanctuary, Nellapattu Bird Sanctuary, Pulicat Lake Bird Sanctuary, Guindy National Park, Kaliveli Tank and Yeduyanthittu estuary, Bahour Lake, Point Calimere Wildlife and Bird Sanctuary, Karaivetti Wildlife Sanctuary, Big Tank (Peria Kanmai) and Sakkarakotai Kanma, Chitrangudi Bird Sanctuary and Kanjirankulam Bird Sanctuary, Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park and Kunthangulam Bird Sanctuary\n\nSanctuaries for migratory waterbirds listed from north to south along the Western Flyway on or near the west coast of India include: Rann of Kutch, Flamingo City, Banni Grassland and Chhari Dhand, Naliya Grassland, Lala Bustard Wildlife Sanctuary, Porbandar Bird Sanctuary, Khijadiya Lake and Bird Sanctuary, Marine National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary, Charakla Salt Works, Nal Sarovar Bird Sanctuary, Blackbuck National Park, Velavadar, Gir National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary, Kaj Lake Pipalava Bandharo, Bhimashankar Wildlife Sanctuary, Mahul - Sewree Creek, Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Koyna Wildlife Sanctuary, Burnt Island (Bandra) Vengurla Rocks, Carambolim Wetlands, Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary, Anshi National Park, Gudavi Bird Sanctuary, Kudremukh National Park, Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary, Bramhagiri Wildlife Sanctuary, Aralam Wildlife Sanctuary, Kattampally, Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve including: Mukurthi National Park, Mudumalai National Park, Wynad Wildlife Sanctuary, Bandipur National Park and Silent Valley National Park, Indira Gandhi Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park, Periyar National Park, Kole Wetland, Neyyar Wildlife Sanctuary and Suchindram Theroor Birds Sanctuary, the southernmost protected area in the continental range of the Central Asian Flyway\nPakistan has had very few studies to monitor the migratory bird populations and their use of wetlands. Current flyway management systems rely on information from local hunters, erratic wildlife surveys and raw estimates. \n\nKey wetland sites include Mangla Lake, Rawal Lake in Margalla Hills National Park, Zangi Nawar Lake, the high mountain wetlands in northern Pakistan including the Naltar wetland complex and the wetlands of Deosai National Park plains. There have been several reports of black storks, cranes and flocks of vulnerable marbled teal.\n\nWorld Wide Fund for Nature reported that Pakistan's wetlands and their rich biological resources are threatened by over-exploitation, habitat destruction and polluted environments. The main causes for wetland degradation are ineffective management, poor stakeholder participation and lack of coordination for management strategies.\nAbout half the territory of the Russian Federation is in the range of the Central-Asian Flyway. Among 176 CAF species, 143 (85%) are located (and mostly breed) in Russian territory. Most of the species are presented by Anatidae and wader groups. 37 species that inhabit CAF area are included in the Russian Red Data Book and more than 40 species are hunting objects.\n\nSri Lanka is the southernmost land mass of the Central Asian Flyway and is the final destination of many migratory birds exiting the eastern and western Indian flyways and the Andaman Islands. The Department of Wildlife Conservation in Sri Lanka has declared four Ramsar sites and declared other protected areas in Sri Lanka which are wetlands habitats of migratory waterbirds. These include: Anawilundawa Sanctuary, Bellanwilla - Attidiya Sanctuary, Bundala National Park, Gal Oya National Park, Giants' Tank Sanctuary, Kumana National Park, Muthurajawela Sanctuary and Yala National Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "3431555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3431555", "title": "Chartered company", "text": "Chartered company\n\nA chartered company is an association formed by investors or shareholders for the purpose of trade, exploration, and colonization.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37399629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37399629", "title": "Cornelis de Hooghe", "text": "Cornelis de Hooghe\n\nCornelis de Hooghe (1541, The Hague – 1583, The Hague) was a 16th-century engraver and mapmaker from the Northern Netherlands.\n\nCornelis de Hooghe, born in 1541 in The Hague (the Netherlands) as a bastard of Charles V, after this emperor's visit to the town in the summer of 1540. As De Hooghe's later friends and co-conspirators were to be found in the upper-class Delft families, it can safely be assumed that his mother was one of the daughters of Cornelis Arendsz. van der Hooch and Petronella van Persijn, wealthy and influential locals of both The Hague and Delft with close ties to the Habsburg government. This family also used names like Verhooch, De Hoogh or De Hooghe and owned a farm in the vicinity of Delft, bearing the name De Hooght. The exaggerated mention in his “Hollandia-map” (1565) of the rather unimportant Persijn manor (Huys te Persijn), that was situated just north of The Hague, underlines his descent from this family.\n\nDe Hooghe was a pupil of Philip Galle and received his education as an engraver when Galle still lived in Haarlem. \"Cornelius Hogius\" (as he signed his Norfolk map in 1574) already worked for himself at the court of Margareth of Parme (his halfsister and a bastard of Charles V, too) when Galle moved to Antwerp. He produced two maps for Margareth's court. Firstly he made a copy of Forlani's map “La vera descrittione della Gallia Belgica”, that by itself is assumed being a smaller copy of a wall-map by Van Deventer that now has been lost. In De Hooghe’s copy he added to Forlani’s map the borders of \"Belgica\" exactly as they were statued in 1559 by the peace treaty of Cateau-Cambrésis. He therefore modified the original title of the map into “La Descrittione di Belgica con le sue frontiere” and added Philip IInd’s blason to the copy of Forlani. \nHis second known work was his \"Hollandia-map\", dated 1565 and signed by his monogram C.D.H. This map is considered being his masterpiece and was ornamented by a lavish moresquen border and the blasons of both king Philip II of Spain and of William of Orange (the Silent), by that time stadholder of Holland. The third know work were the illustrations that he made for captain Francesco de Marchi, Margareth's most trusted aid, for his book on the construction and lay-out of fortifications.\nSeveral projects were severely hampered by the Antwerp uprising of 1566, after which William of Orange had to flee to Germany. This made the \"Hollandia-map\", fraternally bearing both blasons of Philip II and of William of Orange, obsolete. On May 4, 1567, a few days after Margaretha settled herself and her court in Antwerp for a few months in order to restore calm in this town, De Hooghe sold his \"Hollandia-map\" to the famous Antwerp printer Plantin. In 1567 his \"Belgica-map appeared in the first edition of Ludovico Guicciardini's \"Descrittione di tutti i Paesi Bassi\". It is often assumed that this map was especially made for this book, but the differences in size show that De Hooghe just sold a slightly modified and signed reprint of these maps to the author. It is safer to assume that only the second version of this map was made for Guicciardini. The first unsigned version of this map must be dated prior to 1567, most probably rather close to the year 1559 of the peace of Cateau-Cambrésis and was made solely for use at the court. None of the existing first version maps that survived bears any sign of book binding, nor were they cut off in order to fit in Guicciardini’s book.\nAt the end of 1567 Margareth left for Italy after being replaced by the Duke of Alva.\nBy this event, Cornelis lost his job as a court engraver and left for London. He is being mentioned on the 1567 Archbishop Grindal's list of religious refugees \"Catalogus corum qui ex ditione Philippi Hispaniarum Regis Ecclesiae Belgico-Germanicae Londinensi subsunt\".\nOn May 4, 1568 Cornelis is noticed in London again, obtaining a privilege of Queen Elisabeth I.\nBut in January 1569 he is mentioned back in Antwerp, obtaining his revenues for his \"Hollandia-map\" at the Plantin printing office. 1569 was also the year in which De Hooghe together with the 18 years old Clement Perret, finished a calligraphical example book, the \"Excercitatio\", which obtained a privilege and was sold by Plantin’s office. The lavish borders of the Excercitatio seems to find their origin in the fortification book of captain De Marchi and were most probably incised in copper by the Antwerp engraver Ameet Tavenier, since they were monogrammed ATA (Ameet Tavenier Antwerpianus). It was De Hooghe who engraved the writing examples. He signed with “Cornelis de Hooghe Bredanus Sculpsit”, in the final print to be replaced by \"Cornelius de Hooghe | Sculptor Literaru\". A simpler version of the Excercitatio was later made, for which Perret and De Hooghe used the last remaining illustrative page border of De Marchi's fortification book. On this last border several geometrical and building constructor's instruments appear, clearly showing that these borders were intended to be used for the De Marchi's production, rather than as an illustration of the book on handwriting examples.\n\nIn January 1570, De Hooghe was back in London. There are no indications that he returned to the Low Countries until the year of 1574, when he paid a brief visit to the Dutch towns of Hoorn and Haarlem. It is believed that De Hooghe was involved in the release of Lieven van Weldam (his distant cousin), who was taken prisoner during the Battle of the Zuiderzee (1573) and kept in captivity in this town. During the negotiations with the local authorities he presented himself as a “trader” from the English coastal town of Ipswich. \nHis mission was successful and Van Weldam was released in exchange for the Haarlem mayor Kies. Right after the exchange had taken place, De Hooghe received an invitation by the Haarlem magistrate for a map of Haarlem to be made, which he refused, because of the low price.\nHe then returned to Ipswich, where he worked as a trader again. Some records of shiploads and a few court cases of ill-handed transports of goods proof that he had his own trading company. It is not known when exactly he became involved in making the first atlas of England and Wales, also known by the names of \"Elisabeth Atlas\" and \"Saxton Atlas\" (Christophorus Saxtonius, Descriptio Angliae 1579), for which he incised the first map of Norfolk, “Norfolciae comitatus...” in the year 1574. The map could have been made before and/or after his stay in Hoorn and Haarlem. It was this map that was signed by “Cornelius Hogius”. It is his last known work as an engraver. In 1576 De Hooghe married in Rotterdam to Maritgen Tromper of a wealthy Rotterdam family of traders. One of the court cases indicates that Maritgen took part in his trading firm.\n\nAround All Saints Day of 1581, he was contacted by Philip II's envoy De Silva, one of emperor Charles V's former chamberlains, who brought him letters of credence, confirming him as an imperial bastard. He was asked by the king to bring the dissident Netherlands back under the rule of the king. Should he succeed, then De Hooghe would become Duke of Gelre or obtain any other noble title. De Hooghe accepted the offer and started giving speeches in many cities in several parts of the Low Countries trying to convince the people to make an end to the costly war against Spain. He became very popular amongst the pacifist Dutch Anabaptists who even crowned him as their king. When he had written down his thoughts on paper from which a booklet and some letters to the magistrates were to be printed and distributed, he was betrayed by the printer even before printing took place and he was taken into custody. After a 40-day investigation he was sentenced to death on March 29, 1583, by beheading. His body was to be quartered and to be exposed by suspending it at four \"half gallows\" at each of the four entrances of The Hague.\n\nAlthough De Hooghe was portrayed as a traitor of his country by later historians, especially the ones who exaggerated the 80-year struggle for independence from Spain, such as P.C. Hooft, De Hooghe portrayed himself as “a man who wants to bring peace”. Just before being sentenced he spoke the words “must I die just because I want to bring prosperity to this country?”. His support by the peaceful Anabaptists and the fact that he gave speeches and tried to persuade people and magistrates to elect him as the rightful governor of the Low Countries instead of his half brother Philip II, who he said to dislike because of his brutality, are indications of his peaceful intentions. He seems to have played his role otherwise than intended by his half-brother Philip II. Instead of using military force, Cornelis de Hooghe tried to persuade the magistrates, local guilds and individual citizens to follow him into a peaceful transition under his guidance. Because of the absence of any use of force or brutality (no shot was fired, just books written and speeches held), his death sentence can therefor be regarded as an abuse of justice, or as a political process by the Court of Holland (Hof van Holland), whose members had to lose much political influence by Cornelis de Hooghe’s ideas. \n\nSmit, Jakob (1879–1947), De aanslag van Cornelis de Hooghe op de veiligheid van den Staat 1583 in: Bijdragen voor Vaderlandsche Geschiedenis en Oudheidkunde, verzameld en uitgegeven door N. Japikse, 1939\n\nGestman Geradts, J, Cornelis de Hooghe (1541–1583), keizerlijke bastaard, kartograaf en opstandeling in: Caert Thresoor 2010-3 nr. 29 Tijdschrift voor de \nGeschiedenis van de Kartografie, Stichting Historische Cartografie van de Nederlanden, pp. 65–70.\n\nGestman Geradts, J, Cornelis de Hooghe, kaartenmaker en smokkelaar, in: Spiegel der Zeilvaart, oktober 2010, pp. 28–31\n\nBor, Pieter Christiaensz, Oorsprongk, begin en vervolg der Nederlandsche Oorlog, Oorspronk der Nederlandsche Beroerten, 1679 heruitgave van 1621\n\nhttp://www.cornelisdehooghe.com\n"}
{"id": "58308662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58308662", "title": "Cornelius Wytfliet", "text": "Cornelius Wytfliet\n\nCornelius Wytfliet or Cornelis van Wytfliet (died around 1597) was a geographer from Leuven in the Habsburg Netherlands, best known for producing the first atlas of the Americas.\n\nCornelius was the son of Catherine Huybrechts and her husband, Gregorius Wytfliet, who was advocate fiscal of Leuven University from 1557 to 1594.\n\nAfter graduating Licentiate in Laws from the University of Leuven, Wytfliet moved to Brussels and became secretary to the Council of Brabant. He died in or shortly after 1597, when his \"Descriptionis Ptolemaicae Augmentum\" (a work adding new discoveries to Ptolemy's description of the world) was published.\n\n"}
{"id": "7222137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7222137", "title": "County of Gorizia", "text": "County of Gorizia\n\nThe County of Gorizia (, , , ), from 1365 Princely County of Gorizia, was a State of the Holy Roman Empire. Originally mediate \"Vogts\" of the Patriarchs of Aquileia, the Counts of Gorizia (\"Meinhardiner\") ruled over several fiefs in the area of Lienz and in the Friuli region of northeastern Italy with their residence at Gorizia (\"Görz\").\n\nIn 1253 the Counts of Gorizia inherited the County of Tyrol, from 1271 onwards ruled by the Gorizia-Tyrol branch which became extinct in the male line in 1335. The younger line ruled the comital lands of Gorizia and Lienz until its extinction in 1500, whereafter the estates were finally acquired by the Austrian House of Habsburg.\n\nCount Meinhard I, a descendant of the \"Meinhardiner\" noble family with possessions around Lienz in the Duchy of Bavaria, is mentioned as early as 1107. As a \"vogt\" official of the Patriarchs of Aquileia, he was enfeoffed with large estates in the former March of Friuli, including the town of Gorizia, and from 1127 on called himself a \"Graf von Görz\".\n\nThe borders of the county changed frequently in the following four centuries, due to frequent wars with Aquileia and other counties, but also to the subdivision of the territory in two main nuclei: one around the Bavarian ancestral seat of Lienz on the upper Drava River up to Innichen in the Puster Valley, the other centered on Gorizia in Friuli itself.\n\nMeinhard's descendant Count Meinhard III of Gorizia, a follower of the Hohenstaufen emperor Frederick II, upon the extinction of the ducal House of Babenberg was appointed administrator of Styria in 1248. He campaigned the adjacent Duchy of Carinthia but was defeated by the troops of Duke Bernhard von Spanheim and his son Archbishop Philip of Salzburg at Greifenburg in 1252. Nevertheless, the county reached the apex of its power, when Meinhard III inherited County of Tyrol (as Meinhard I) from his father-in-law Count Albert IV one year later.\n\nAfter Count Meinhard III had died in 1258, his sons at first ruled jointly until in 1271 they divided their heritage: While the elder Meinhard IV took the comital Tyrolean lands west of the Puster Valley, his brother Albert retained the Meinhardiner ancestral lands around Lienz and Gorizia. After his death, the County of Gorizia was again partitoned among his sons into the \"inner county\" at Gorizia, ruled by Henry III, and the \"outer county\" around Lienz und Albert II. When Count Henry III was assassinated in 1323, the Gorizia lands were shattered into four countries. The Counts of Gorizia temporarily controlled the Italian March of Treviso (\"Marca Trevigiana\") and the remains of the Istrian march around Pazin (\"Mitterburg\"), which Count Albert III of Görz bequeathed to the House of Habsburg in 1365.\n\nIn 1365 Count Meinhard VI of Görz was granted the princely title by the Luxemborg emperor Charles IV, the county was thereon called \"Gefürstete Grafschaft Görz\". The \"Meinhardiner\" nevertheless suffered a steep decline under their powerful neighbours, the Austrian lands of the Habsburg dynasty and the Republic of Venice. After the Habsburgs had acquired the Carinthian duchy with the March of Carniola in 1335 and the County of Tyrol in 1363, the remaining Gorizia lands of Lienz were a thorn in their side, separating the dynasty's \"hereditary lands\". Venice had conquered the former Patriarchate territories in Friuli, which were incorporated into the \"Domini di Terraferma\" by 1434. The Council of Ten strived for the adjacent \"inner county\" lands around Gorizia up to the Venetian \"Stato da Màr\" territories in Istria. Due to the pressure, the Gorizia counts took their residence at Bruck Castle in Lienz.\n\nIn 1429 the county was reunited under the single rule of Count Henry VI. His son, the last count Leonhard, died in 1500 and despite claims raised by Venice, according to a contract of inheritance the county fell to the Habsburg emperor Maximilian I.\n\nWhile the Lienz area was administrated with the Tyrolean crown land, the \"inner county\" of Gorizia remained an Imperial State of the Holy Roman Empire ruled by the Inner Austrian Archdukes as part of the Austrian Circle, governed by a \"capitano\". Its territory included the Isonzo Valley down to Aquileia, the area of Cormons and Duino, and the former Venetian fortress of Gradisca, which was conquered by Imperial troops in 1511. Monfalcone formed a Venetian exclave in the county from 1420 to 1797. In 1647 Emperor Ferdinand III separated the \"County of Gradisca\" from Gorizia for his courtier Johann Anton von Eggenberg, until in 1747 both were again merged to form the Princely County of Gorizia and Gradisca, a crown land of the Habsburg Monarchy.\n\nLine extinct, county inherited by the Habsburg king Maximilian I, Archduke of Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "22070188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22070188", "title": "Cuvier Rempart", "text": "Cuvier Rempart\n\nCuvier Rempart is a bouldering area in the Fontainebleau forest, where its first 8a named C'etait Demain is located.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14538658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14538658", "title": "Ecologically Critical Area", "text": "Ecologically Critical Area\n\nAn Ecologically Critical Area (ECA) is an environmental protection zone in Bangladesh. In 1995, specific areas in Bangladesh could be deemed Ecologically Critical Areas as a result of the Environmental Conservation Act.\n\nBangladesh has a wide variety of ecosystems that include over 300 rivers that creates marine and fresh water environments. There are a multitude of areas that have been considered ECAs. Cox's Bazar is on the border of Bangladesh and Myanmar in the southeast corner of Bangladesh. The Teknaf Peninsula is 80 km of sandy beach and holds a variety of species as one of the longest beaches in the world. The Sonadia Islands are home to some of the last mangrove forests that house distinct species that can tolerate the high salinity of the mangrove forests in this area. The Sundarbans also contain mangrove forests and was named an ECA because it continues to suffer from over-exploitation and illegal urban development. St. Martin's Island is known for its coral-algal that overwhelms its rocky reefs. The island is a refuge for globally threatened marine species. Finally, the Hakaluki Haor found in greater Sylhet is an ECA because it has an extensive amount of wetland habitats that support a wide variety of life.\n\nGulshan-Baridhara Lake was declared an ECA in 2001. In September 2009, the four rivers around the capital city Dhaka—Buriganga River, Shitalakshya River, Turag River and Balu River—have been declared by the Department of Environment as ECAs.\n"}
{"id": "17029663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17029663", "title": "Fay Gale", "text": "Fay Gale\n\nFay Gale AO (13 June 1932 – 3 May 2008) was an Australian cultural geographer and an emeritus professor. She was a passionate advocate of equal opportunity for women and for Aboriginal people.\n\nShe was born Gwendoline Fay Gilding in Balaklava, South Australia to Jasper and Kathleen Gilding. Her father was a Methodist minister. Professor Gale was the first honours graduate in geography of the University of Adelaide. Professor Gale is notable for many academic works including the first ever PHD to focus on Part Aborigines and address issues of assimilation. Her thesis \"A Study of Assimilation: Part Aborigines in South Australia\" was published in Adelaide in 1960 and republished in 1964 after becoming widely set as an anthropology text. in numerous universities. She is widely revered for her contributions to academia and the role of women in academia.\n\nIn 1989, she was awarded the Order of Australia for her services to Social Science, particularly in the fields of Geography and Aboriginal Studies. In 1978, she became the first woman to be appointed as Professor at the University of Adelaide, in Geography. In 1988, she became Pro Vice Chancellor at the University of Adelaide and, in 1990, Vice Chancellor of the University of Western Australia. In 1997, she was appointed President of the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia, the first woman to hold that position.\n\nProfessor Gale was greatly influenced by her relationship with her foster-sister Edna Walker, a member of the Stolen Generation and was an early speaker and activist for change in the treatment of Aboriginals. When she married Milton Gale in 1957 her two bridesmaids were Aboriginal women, Gladys Long and Linda Vale. Her early research activity amongst Aboriginal communities represents in many cases the only written records of some people. The research was part of a body of work relied upon by Hindmarsh Island Royal Commission in making its determination. This led to criticism by others of the veracity of the material. Rod Lucas discusses this treatment in 'The Failure of Anthropology'\n\nDuring her time at The University of Western Australia Fay Gale was instrumental in developing significant advances in gender equity.\n\nThe University of Western Australia offers a fellowship for academics wishing to study overseas in her name - Fay Gale Fellowships.\n\nThe Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia has instituted (2008) The Fay Gale Annual Lecture which provides for a public lecture honouring a distinguished woman social scientist from among the Academy Fellows.\n\nIn 1972 Professor Gale was a visiting lecturer in the Geography School at Oxford University having been awarded the Catherine Helen Spence Scholarship to travel overseas. In 1978 she was a Visiting Professor at the University of Washington.\n\nIn 1991 Professor Gale teamed with Ian Lowe to give that year's Boyer Lectures entitled \"Changing Australia (changes through technology)\"\n\nProfessor Gale considered Dame Roma Mitchell one of her key mentors.\n\nHer son is Silicon Valley-based investor Michael Gale.\n\nGale was involved in considerable controversy in the early to mid 1990s over activities in the Anthropology department that became known as the \"Rindos Affair\" and ultimately made what The Times called \"state history\" by leading to an enquiry by the Legislative Council. As the University's first female Vice Chancellor, who was also single, Professor Gale was the subject of considerable interest and the elements of the case involving academic rivalry and sexual exploits captured the imagination of the press with well over 100 news items being published. The background controversy was concerned with preferential homosexual and lesbian engagement between staff and selected students; and more generally over the disruption to their studies caused by radical changes wrought by the then Hawke Labor Government. Professor Gale received both support and criticism from the academic staff.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29252804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29252804", "title": "Geology of Russia", "text": "Geology of Russia\n\nThe geology of Russia, the world's largest country, which extends over much of northern Eurasia, consists of several stable cratons and sedimentary platforms bounded by orogenic (mountain) belts.\n\nThe European part of Russia is on the East European craton, at the heart of which is a complex of igneous and metamorphic rocks dating back to the Precambrian. The craton is bounded on the east by the long tract of compressed and highly deformed rock that constitutes the Ural orogen. The area between the Ural Mountains and the Yenisei River is the young West Siberian Plain. East of the Yenisei River is the ancient Central Siberian Plateau, extending to the Lena River. East of the Lena River there is the Verhoyansk-Chukotka collision zone, stretching to the Chukchi Peninsula.\n\nThe orogens within Russia belong to the Baltic Shield, the Timanides, the Urals, the Altai Mountains, the Ural-Mongolian epipaleozoic orogen and the northwestern part of the Pacific orogeny. The country's highest mountains, the Caucasus, are confined to younger orogens.\n\nThe European part of Russia lies on the East European platform, a region up to wide covered by more than of metamorphosed sediments dating back to the Riphean stage (middle to late Proterozoic, from 1,400 to 800 million years ago). These sediments lie on the East European craton, a remnant of Precambrian continental crust composed of magmatic and metamorphic rocks. The East European craton itself was created between 2.0 and 1.7 billion years ago when the microcontinents of Fennoscandia, Sarmatia and Volgo-Uralia collided.\n\nThe Timan Ridge ( – \"Timansky Kryazh\") lies west of the Northern Ural mountains. It strikes northwest–southeast, extending from the settlement of Troitsko-Pechorsk to the Kanin Peninsula. This ridge can be correlated with outcrops on the Varanger Peninsula which together form the Timan-Varanger belt.\nThe Timan-Varanger belt consists of Neoproterozoic (late Precambrian) sediments that were metamorphosed and deformed during the Timanian (or Baikalian) orogeny, a late Neoproterozoic mountain-building event coincident with the Cadomian orogeny in western Europe.\n\nThe Timan-Pechora Basin is a sedimentary basin that lies between the Timan Ridge and the Urals foreland basin. The basin extends into the southern part of the Barents sea and includes Kolguyev Island. It is covered by of sediments that were deposited during a series of marine regression and transgression events from the Proterozoic to the Cenozoic. The eastern basin was deformed when the Ural mountains were formed. The Basin is further divided into the Izhma-Pechora basin, Pechora-Kolva basin, Khoreiver basin and the Northern Pre-Urals.\n\nThe Volgo-Uralian Block is a basement of Archean craton covered by younger sediments, making up the eastern third of the East European Craton. This crystalline basement is made up of amphibolite to granulite facies, mostly forming domes. Granitoids deformed into gneisses are contained. The sedimentary rocks covering these domes are of Neoproterozoic to Phanerozoic age.\n\nThe Arabian plate has been converging towards the East European craton at 29 mm/yr; however, subduction has not occurred because of the presence of three blocks separating the plate and craton. The convergence has forced up the Caucasus Mountains. The core of the mountains is mostly composed of metasedimentary Paleozoic rocks.\n\nDeformation outside the core has mostly taken place on the southern slopes of the mountains; however, there is some deformation on the North slopes. This deformation is differentiated on the north slopes from East to West. In the west, some thrusting to the North of the Crest has taken place into the Kuban Basin. When the thrusting die out the north slopes of the central Greater Caucasus form a basement uplift, forming a monocline dipping North. Dagestan to the Eastern end of the range is the where most thrusting to the North occurs and has formed a folded zone of sediments, overlying some of the Terek Basin.\n\nThe Caspian Basin is a system of basins and platforms. It is divided into smaller basins, in the North, the North Caspian Basin. The north is a basin at the edge of the cratons to the north. It is composed of Paleozoic carbonate platforms. The North Basin overlies a basement of European Craton. Mesozoic and Tertiary sediments deposited by a variety of methods have covered the continental crust.\n\nThe Ural Mountains, a 2,500 kilometre (1,600 mi) long mountain chain that runs north-south at approximately 60° E longitude, formed in the Ural orogeny, a long series of mountain-building events occurring at the eastern margin of what is now the East European craton in association with its collision with another microcontinent (the Kazakhstania terrane) to the east. The first phase of orogenic development occurred in the late Devonian and early Carboniferous, when volcanic island arcs developed and accreted to the continental margin. During the subsequent collision stage, extensive folding, faulting, and metamorphism occurred. Deformation during the collision stage propagated from the south northwards, reaching the Pay-Khoy mountains during the Jurassic. The strong influence of strike-slip movements during the orogeny caused the unusual straightness of the mountain chain.\n\nThe West Siberian basin lies between the Ural mountains and the Siberian craton to its east. It corresponds to the geographic region of the West Siberian plain. Deposition in rift valleys resulting from prolonged subsidence of the Triassic Koltogor-Urengoy graben in an intra-cratonic sag basin beginning in the Jurassic has resulted in a thick 'basin fill' of sedimentary deposits ranging from Jurassic to Cenozoic in age. There are two major north-south trending rift structures of Triassic age buried beneath the basin fill: the Urengoy and the Khudosey rift. These rifts are mainly filled with Lower Triassic basic volcanic rocks.\n\nThe West Siberian basin and its offshore portions in the south Kara sea are the largest oil province in the world. It has an area of and the USGS estimates oil and gas reserves of 360 billion barrels of oil equivalent in the basin.\n\nDividing the Siberian craton from the West Siberian basin is the Yenisey fold belt, which extends about , with NW-SE strike. This belt is divided into northern and southern regions by the Angara fault which has left slip. Much of the rock was formed by Neoprotozoic accretion.\n\nNorth of the fault, the area is made up of thrust sheets divided into three primarily Neoproterozoic terranes, the East Angara, Central Angara and the Isakov. Each one overrides another, and volcanism is generally limited to the Central and Isakov terranes. South of the fault are the Predivinsk terrane, made of island arc accretion, and the Angara-Kan micro-craton, which is sometimes considered separate from the fold belt.\n\nThe Siberian craton (or West-Siberian craton) coincides with the Central Siberian plateau that lies between the Yenisei and Lena rivers. In the west it borders the West Siberian basin. The Yenisei-Katanga trough lies in the north. In the south lies the Central Asian fold belt, the Baikal rift and the Mongol-Okhotsk fold belt. The eastern border is the Verkhoyansk-Kolyma orogenic system.\n\nThe Siberian craton formed in the Precambrian and is largely covered by sedimentary and volcanic rocks of more recent age. Precambrian rocks are exposed in two distinct uplifts, the Anabar massif in the northeast and the Aldanian shield in the southeast. Other basement outcrops include Olenyok, Sharyzhalgay and the raised Southern Yenisei horst.\n\nBasins include the Tunguska basin, the Vilui basin (Viluiskaya-Tunguska syncline), the Low-Angara (Angara-Lena trough) basin, and the Kan-Taseeva basin.\n\nThe volcanically produced Siberian Traps, the largest flood basalts of the Phanerozoic (the last 542 million years), mantle about 40 percent of the Siberian craton.\n\nThe Siberian craton is known for its large mineral resources. The town of Norilsk is the world’s largest supplier of nickel. In 2011 one-fifth of the world's production of this metal came from Russia.\n\nThe Verhoyansk-Chukotka collision zone is commonly divided into the Verhoyansk-Kolyma and the Novosibirsk-Chukotka (or Novosibirsk-Chukchi) orogens. It stretches from the Lena river in the west to the Chukchi Peninsula in the east.\n\nThe Verkhoyansk-Kolyma orogen is composed of three parts: the Verkhoyansk fold-and-thrust belt, the Chersky collisional zone, and the Kolyma-Omolon microcontinent. The Verkhoyansk fold-and-thrust belt consists of a sedimentary succession, most of which was deposited between the Carboniferous and Middle Jurassic. The Lena River runs along the most frontal, or most western thrust of the Verkhoyansk fold and thrust belt. In the east of the Verkhoyansk lies the Chersky collisional belt. It consists of late Permian to Jurassic oceanic turbidites and volcanic deposits that are folded and were intruded by molten granite in the Cretaceous. The Kolyma-Omolon microcontinent formed when the Prikolyma and Omolon terranes collided with the Alazeya island arc (or Alazeya-Oloy volcanic arc). When the Kolyma-Omolon microcontinent collided with the Siberian craton the sedimentary stack of the Verhoyansk was folded and uplifted. Deformation took place between the Middle Jurassic and Upper Cretaceous.\n\nThe Novosibirsk-Chukotka orogen lies in the northeastern-most part of Russia on the Chukchi Peninsula and also is exposed on the island of New Siberia, Anzhu Islands. The orogen is composed of metamorphic basement rocks and cover made up of shallow water sediments, deposited between the Permian and the Triassic. The Chukchi massif is an outcrop of Precambrian basement that stretches to the Seward Peninsula in Alaska. The Novosibirsk-Chukotka orogen is connected under the Chukchi Sea with the Brooks fold-and-thrust belt in Alaska.\n\nThe Central Asian Orogenic Belt is an orogen that covers much of Central Asia, extending from the Urals to the Pacific and dividing the Siberian and Eastern European cratons from the North China and Tarim cratons. It has been accepted that the belt was formed by accretion, but there is debate over the relative timing and nature of the various accretions. The accretion orogens form one of the largest areas of continental growth, representing 800 Ma of development. The part of the Belt in Russia is believed to have formed when the Kokchetav and Altai-Mongolian terranes collided with the Siberia Craton. The Altai Structures reach into Russia, representing the extent of a mobile belt primarily lying south of the border. This is known as the Altai-Sayan orogen and is part of the belt present in Russia, along with the Transbaikalia and Primorje orogens.\n\nThe Baikal-Stanovoy region is commonly held to be caused by various factors to account for the differing structures throughout the region. The Baikal-Stanovoy seismic belt underlies the region and is a long thin activity region. Compressive stresses dominate the eastern Stanovoy Ranges, whereas the Baikal rift zone is an extension zone.\n\nThe Baikal rift zone is an extension zone separating the Siberian platform from the Sayan Baikal range. This zone is revealed by a series of basins more than long. Some strike-slip action also takes place in the area. The driving forces of the rift are unknown; however, possibilities include the subduction of the Pacific Plate and the collision of the Indian subcontinent with Eurasia. Locally, there may be a mantle up-welling driving the extension.\n\nThe area was originally characterized by Precambrian and Paleozoic northeast-southwest fold and thrust belts. Volcanism began in the late Cretaceous in limited areas, but is mostly limited to the Miocene. It is also the age of sedimentary rocks in some basins, and the same series lasted into the Eocene. Rifting resumed beginning in the Oligocene, and is commonly held to have increased since the middle Pliocene, causing the formation of basins in the form of grabens. The new rift structure may follow the Precambrian and Paleozoic faults. Magmatic activity and rifting may also be independent events. Outside of the grabens basalt volcanics erupted from either end of the rift system during the uplift. The grabens mostly spread without releasing magma, except the Tunka depression.\n\nThe Dzhugdzhur Range and Stanovoy Range are two eastern mountain ranges, where the Stonovoy is west of the Dzhugdzhur. Together the ranges make up a folded block structure, which first formed during the Archean and Proterozoic.\n\nThe Stanovoy range is composed of granodiorite batholiths, mostly of the Udskaya series, which contains Mesozoic massifs in the form of intrusions of granite, granodiorite, and diorite. Seismic activity in the area is found in an east trending narrow zone, called the Stanovoy strike-slip zone. In the range, this belt is revealed by strike-slip displacement. This left fault joins the Sea of Okhotsk to the Sakhalin deformation zones. The belt formed by this zone extends to lake Baikal. The area is under compressive stresses.\n\nThe Dzhugdzhur range has a basement formed out of a block which is from the early Proterozoic. It is sometimes considered part of the Aldan Shield. It contains a late Archean granulite basement. This basement can be broken into two sequences, the lower is primarily a plagiogneiss-enderbite, and the upper is made up of biotite and gneisses and garnets mixed with biotite.\n\nThe Okhotsk-Chukotka Volcanic Belt stretches from the settlement of Okhotsk and runs along the northern shore of the Sea of Okhotsk. In the Shelikhov Gulf the belt runs northeast across most of the Chukchi Peninsula and then bends southeast and runs along the Pacific shoreline and terminates between the peninsula and St. Lawrence Island.\n\nThe Okhotsk-Chukotka Volcanic Belt was formed during the Cretaceous by the subduction of the Kula or Isanagai oceanic plate under the Verkhoyansk-Chukotka orogen. The activity ended with the subduction moving farther east.\n\nMineral resources found in the Okhotsk-Chukotka belt include gold, silver, tin and mercury.\n\nThe Kuril arc is a 2,300 kilometre (1,400 mi) long chain of volcanic islands stretching from the Kamchatka peninsula to Hokkaido (Japan). The islands formed as a part of the Kurile-Kamchatkan subduction system when the Pacific Plate started to subduct under the Okhotsk Plate during the Paleogene. This process is still active today with 40 of its 100 volcanoes being active. Currently the subduction is oblique and progressing at per year. The Kuril-Kamchatka Trench on the pacific side of the islands is one of the deepest ones known, with parts reaching in depth. In the north the Kurile island arc connects with the Aleutian arc at the Kamchatka-Aleutian junction.\n\nThe West Kamchatka orogen is a regional geosynclinal complex of the Upper Cretaceous, which is superimposed on a granite-gneiss and schist-basic foundation, and which, after folding, was overlain by Paleogene-Neogene rocks. On the Central and Eastern Kamchatka-Olyutor systems of the Upper Cretaceous is built up a complex of paleogene volcanic-sedimentary strata. During the Late Pliocene - Early Pleistocene in the central zone there developed large basaltic shield volcanoes. The Eastern Zone is characterized by current day volcanism (28 active volcanoes), coinciding with recent graben-like structures.\n\nThe Koryak fold and thrust belt consists of Lower Palaeozoic to Cenozoic terranes,\nincluding early Carboniferous metamorphic terranes composed of folds, domes and shear zones with related high-pressure and low-temperature metamorphism.\nThe latest Jurassic to early Cretaceous (early Albian) thrusting was accompanied by dextral strike-slip faulting, and this formed imbricated (overlapping) fans of thrusts and folds with southeast vergence, creating a broken formation and serpentinite mélange. Some of the rocks were metamorphosed to blueschist. These structures are now overlapped by Upper Albian sedimentary rocks with an angular unconformity.\nA late Cretaceous to Cenozoic deformational event characterized by significant sinistral strike-slip displacement at higher crustal levels resulted in a new set of structures and the rotation of pre-existing structures.\nThe latest Jurassic to early Cretaceous (early Albian) thrusting, and a late Cretaceous to Cenozoic deformational event correspond to assumed proto-Pacific plate motions based on palaeomagnetic data.\n\nThe Sakhalin Cenozoic orogeny is divided into East and West zones separated by the Central Sakhalin graben. Oil and gas are associated with the North Sakhalin basin, and there are coal-bearing deposits in mountains associated with the middle Miocene.\n\nSevernaya Zemlya and the northern part of the Taimyr Peninsula formed an independent microcontinent during the Paleozoic, the Kara Terrane or North Kara Terrane. It consists of a Neoproterozoic basement, consisting of metamorphosed sedimentary rocks intruded by granites, which is covered by Upper Neoproterozoic and Paleozoic sedimentary rocks. The North Kara Terrane collided with Siberia around the Devonian-Carboniferous boundary. This collision, which is related to the Caledonian orogeny, is called the Severnaya Zemlya episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3213411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3213411", "title": "Gornja Dubrava", "text": "Gornja Dubrava\n\nGornja Dubrava (, \"Upper Dubrava\") is one of the districts of Zagreb, Croatia. It is located in the northeastern part of the city and has 61,841 inhabitants (2011 census).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17417572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17417572", "title": "ISO 3166-2:BZ", "text": "ISO 3166-2:BZ\n\nISO 3166-2:BZ is the entry for Belize in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Belize, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 6 districts.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Belize. The second part is two or three letters.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "222758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222758", "title": "ISO 3166-2:FI", "text": "ISO 3166-2:FI\n\nISO 3166-2:FI is the entry for Finland in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g. provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Finland, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 19 regions (under six Regional State Administrative Agencies plus Åland).\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Finland. The second part is two numbers.\n\nÅland (; ), an autonomous region of Finland (also a former province), is also officially assigned its own set of country codes in ISO 3166-1, with alpha-2 code .\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nISO 639-1 codes are used to represent subdivision names in the following administrative languages:\n\nIn addition, the list also includes translation to English (en).\n\nSubdivision names are sorted in Finnish alphabetical order: a–z, å, ä, ö.\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31389867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31389867", "title": "Ituran", "text": "Ituran\n\nIturan Location and Control Ltd. is an Israeli company that provides stolen vehicle recovery and tracking services, and markets GPS wireless communications products. Ituran is traded on NASDAQ and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and is included in the TA-100 Index. Ituran has over 1,300 employees worldwide and is a market leader in Brazil, Argentina, Israel and the United States. As of February 2015, the company has 817,000 subscribers.\n\nIturan was established in 1994 by the Tadiran conglomerate to develop and operate a service for locating stolen vehicles using a technology that was originally developed for military use at Tadiran Telematics, a subsidiary of Tadiran Communications. The core technology was originally developed and licensed by Tadiran from Teletrac USA. Teletrac was founded as International Teletrac Systems in 1988. It received initial funding from a unit of AirTouch Communication (formerly known as Pacific Telesis) in exchange for 49% equity of the company. Teletrac contracted Tadiran to build base stations for their US system which were later used under license in deploying the network in Israel.\n\nIn 1995 Tadiran decided to sell the Ituran concept to a group of investors headed by Izzy Sheratzky for $250,000 USD.\n\nIn 1998 the company had an initial public offering on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, raising the capital required to develop the service overseas in the United States, Brazil and Argentina.\n\nIn November 1999 Ituran acquired Tadiran Telematics, which continued to manufacture the vehicle tracking systems Ituran was using for its services, for $10 million. The acquisition enabled Ituran to reduce the cost of the systems it sold. Ituran changed the company's name to Telematics Wireless.\n\nIn 2005 Ituran raised approximately $50 million in an initial public offering on Nasdaq, which gave the company a value of $294 million.\n\nIn April 2007 Ituran acquired the Mapa group for $13 million. The Mapa Group consists of three divisions: geographical databases, map publishing in print and online, satellite navigation and location-based services.\n\nIn November 2007 Ituran sold Telematics Wireless to Singapore based ST Electronics, part of the ST Engineering corporation, for $90 million.\n\nIn 2011, Ituran signed an agreement with Pelephone which allows Ituran to use Pelephone's network to set up an MVNO (mobile virtual network operator) venture.\n\nIn 2012, Ituran announced that Ituran Brazil entered into agreement with General Motors Brazil (\"GMB\") through a company controlled by Ituran (51%).\nIturan Brazil was founded in 1999 and has (as of the end of 2014) more than 310,000 active subscribers.\n\nIn May 2018 a severe security vulnerability was discovered in the Ituran system. The vulnerability allows attackers to easily extract personal information of Ituran customers, including home addresses, phone numbers and car registration numbers. For some users it also allowed real-time tracking using the Ituran application. Following the discovery of the vulnerability, Ituran disabled the self-service portal for its Israeli customers, until the vulnerability is fixed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9705637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9705637", "title": "John Holmes (professor)", "text": "John Holmes (professor)\n\nJohn H. Holmes is Emeritus Professor of Geography at the University of Queensland. He has remained active during his \"retirement\" and has continued his primary research into changing resource values in Australia’s rangelands and their implications in the allocation of property rights. More specifically, his expertise relates to:\n\n\nDuring the past ten years, Professor Holmes has completed invited consultancies on pastoral lease tenure reform in the Northern Territory, Queensland, South Australia and the Western Division of New South Wales, and has also been Chair of the Vegetation Management Advisory Committee, which set guidelines for the Queensland Vegetation Management Act 1999.\n\nJohn Holmes has contributed to the Encyclopædia Britannica and has edited \"Queensland: A Geographical Interpretation\" and coedited \"Settlement Systems in Sparsely Populated Regions\". Professor Holmes has also chaired the Australian Academy of Science National Committee of Geography and acted as Australian delegate at various international meetings. He is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34893796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34893796", "title": "Kapp Petermann", "text": "Kapp Petermann\n\nKapp Petermann \"(Cape Petermann)\" is the north point of the peninsula separating Austfjorden and Vestfjorden, northernmost in Dickson Land, Spitsbergen on Svalbard.\nNamed after August Petermann (1822–78), German geographer.\n"}
{"id": "56134594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56134594", "title": "List of Josh episodes", "text": "List of Josh episodes\n\nThe following is a list of episodes for the British television sitcom \"Josh\", which began airing on BBC Three on 29 August 2014.\n"}
{"id": "36702052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36702052", "title": "List of airports in Tasmania", "text": "List of airports in Tasmania\n\nThis is a list of current registered airports in the Australian state of Tasmania.\n\nThe list is sorted by the name of the community served, click the sort buttons in the table header to switch listing order. Airports named in bold are Designated International Airports, even if they have limited or no scheduled international services.\n\nNoting that some unregistered landing grounds in Tasmania are still listed in international coding systems, such as Queenstown usually as private aerodromes \n\n"}
{"id": "13485294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13485294", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of Chad", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of Chad\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions of Chad, excluding honorary consulates.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22982058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22982058", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of the Cook Islands", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of the Cook Islands\n\nThis page lists the Diplomatic missions of the Cook Islands. Although the Cook Islands is an associated state of New Zealand, . The Cook Islands has one diplomatic mission abroad (a high commission in New Zealand). This high commission has multiple accreditation. The Cook Islands also has a number of honorary consulates.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11841016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11841016", "title": "List of flags of Montenegro", "text": "List of flags of Montenegro\n\nThe following is a list of flags of Montenegro.\n\n"}
{"id": "43549030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43549030", "title": "List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThis is a list of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "599340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599340", "title": "List of medieval land terms", "text": "List of medieval land terms\n\nThe feudal system, in which the land was owned by a monarch, who in exchange for homage and military service granted its use to tenants-in-chief, who in their turn granted its use to sub-tenants in return for further services, gave rise to several terms, particular to Britain, for subdivisions of land which are no longer in wide use. These medieval land terms include the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34133065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34133065", "title": "List of tallest buildings by country", "text": "List of tallest buildings by country\n\nThe following is a list of the tallest buildings in the world by country listing only the tallest building in each country. The list is including only completed (or at least topped-out) buildings. A total of 20 countries featured in the list have supertall skyscrapers (300 m and more). Many countries have constructed new tallest buildings in the 2010s, with the oldest tallest building in a country being St. Olaf's Church in Tallinn, Estonia, which has stood as the country's tallest building since 1519.\n\nThe list includes the tallest (completed or topped out) buildings in each country in the world. All measurements are as defined and recognised by the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CTBUH). Heights are measured to architectural top, with antennae being excluded.\n\nThe list includes the tallest (under construction) buildings that will become its nation's tallest building upon completion.\nMaroc telecom headquarters : \nhttps://www.emporis.fr/buildings/1191858/maroc-telecom-headquarters-rabat-morocco\n"}
{"id": "3204489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3204489", "title": "Lost Moon", "text": "Lost Moon\n\nLost Moon: The Perilous Voyage of Apollo 13 (published in paperback as Apollo 13), is a non-fiction book first published in 1994 by astronaut James Lovell and journalist Jeffrey Kluger, about the failed April 1970 Apollo 13 lunar landing mission which Lovell commanded. The book is the basis of the 1995 film adaptation \"Apollo 13\", directed by Ron Howard.\n\nApollo 13 was the third mission of the Apollo program intended to land men on the Moon. An explosion of an onboard liquid oxygen tank in the Service Module, when the craft was close to reaching the Moon, crippled the electrical power generation and propulsion systems for the Command Module \"Odyssey\". This necessitated the abort of the lunar landing, and placed the lives of astronauts Lovell, Jack Swigert, and Fred Haise in serious jeopardy. The mission became famous for the safe return of the men, made possible by the flight controllers' resourceful adaptation of the electrical, propulsion, and life support systems of the LM (Lunar Module) \"Aquarius\" as a \"lifeboat\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36701518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36701518", "title": "New Heliopolis", "text": "New Heliopolis\n\nNew Heliopolis () is a city located north east in the Cairo Governorate, Egypt. The city was established by the Heliopolis Presidential Decree No.193 of 1995 and belongs to the Heliopolis Company for Housing and Development.\n\nThe city is connected by the Cairo-Ismailia road from the north and by the Cairo–Suez road from the south. It also borders Madinaty to the south, El Shorouk to the west and Badr to the east. The city benefits from its connection to the Regional Ring Road which links it to all of Greater Cairo. The city is located 25 minutes from the district of Heliopolis and Nasr City.\n\nKöppen-Geiger climate classification system classifies its climate as hot desert (BWh), as the rest of Egypt.\n\n\nhttp://www.amlakeg.com/heliopolis-city\n\n"}
{"id": "5777284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5777284", "title": "Opus 40", "text": "Opus 40\n\nOpus 40 is a large environmental sculpture in Saugerties, New York, created by sculptor and quarryman Harvey Fite (1903—1976). It comprises a sprawling series of dry-stone ramps, pedestals and platforms covering of a bluestone quarry.\n\nFite, then a professor of sculpture and theater at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, New York, purchased the disused quarry site in 1938, expecting to use it as a source of raw stone for his representational sculpture. Instead, inspired by a season of work restoring Mayan ruins in Honduras, he began creating a space to display the large carved statues he was beginning to create out of native bluestone.\n\nUsing the rubble that had been left behind as the area was quarried. he built terraces, ramps and walkways to lead to the individual works, doing all the work by hand, and using the traditional hand tools that had been used by the local quarrymen before him. As the rampwork expanded, Fite realized that the 1.5-ton (1.36 tonne) statue, \"Flame\", which had occupied the central pedestal, had become too small for the scale to which his work had grown, and he replaced it with a 9-ton bluestone pillar which he had found in a nearby streambed. This happened in 1964, more than 20 years after he had begun work on his quarry.\nTo raise the central monolith, Fite, an enthusiastic student of the techniques used by sculptors and builders of antiquity, adapted principles used by the ancient Egyptians. He removed \"Flame\" and its base, and continued to remove stone until he had formed a crater four feet deep in the spot where the monolith was to stand. He placed the stone so that it rested horizontally, with the tapered end over the hole.\nUsing guy wires attached to a winch on the back of a pickup truck, Fite began the laborious process of raising the stone a few inches at a time, then propping it up with a crib of heavy wooden blocks. He continued this process until gravity took over, and the stone slid down into the hole, coming to rest at a 45 degree angle.\nFite constructed a huge A-frame out of timbers and raised it over the monolith, then used a chain hoist to lift the stone and suspend it over the hole. Still working stone by stone, he filled in the hole and built up a pedestal, topped by a three-quarter ton capstone.\nThe monolith had previously been made ready by trimming its base, so that its center of gravity was exactly perpendicular to the capstone. This entailed a calculation of extreme precision, one that was worked out by Fite and his neighbor Berthel Wrolsen, a local man who was a self-taught engineering genius and an unofficial consultant to Fite on many structural issues over the years. The calculations were especially difficult in that the top of the monolith is not only wider than the base, but also asymmetrical. Lowered into place, the monolith was to be held there entirely by its own weight and balance. Fite and Wrolsen's calculations, and Fite's execution, proved to be correct. The monolith remains standing after nearly half a century's exposure to all kinds of weather.\n\nHe had originally planned to carve the new stone in place (\"Flame\" had been carved in Fite's studio), but once the stone was up, he realized that what he had originally conceived as a setting for sculpture had become a sculpture in its own right, and a new kind of sculpture, in which carved representational work was out of place. So he removed the other carved pieces, relocating them on the grounds nearby, and continued to work on this new sculptural concept for the rest of his life.\n\nIn the early 1970s, after he had retired from 30 years as a professor at Bard College, Fite built the Quarryman's Museum on the grounds—a collection of folk tools and artifacts of the quarrying era.\n\nIt was around this same time that he finally succumbed to the pressure to give his masterwork a name. At first a joke -- “Classical composers don’t have to name things,” he would say, “they can just number them, Opus One, Opus Two, and so on”—he eventually arrived at what was certainly an apropos name. Opus is the Latin word for work, and 40 refers to the number of years he expected he would need to complete the work.\n\nFite died in 1976, in the 37th year of his creation. He died working on it, in a fall. He left some unfinished areas—but, as his stepson, the writer Jonathan Richards, has observed, “Opus 40 is as complete as it ever would have been. It was the product of Fite’s ceaseless vision, and could only have been stopped by his death.”\n\nThe following year, his widow, Barbara Fite, who had been a close aesthetic collaborator with him throughout his labors, created a nonprofit group to administer \"Opus 40\", and opened it to the public. Barbara Fite died in 1986, and her family continues to administer the organization. \"Opus 40\" remains a popular tourist attraction, as well as a wedding and concert venue. In 2001 it was added to the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nBrendan Gill, in the March, 1989 edition of \"Architectural Digest\", called \"Opus 40\" \"one of the largest and most beguiling works of art on the entire continent,\" and he has also called it “the greatest earthwork sculpture I have ever seen.” Though Fite was not associated with the Land Art or Earthworks sculptural movement of the 1970s, he came to be known as a pioneer of that movement, and was recognized in 1977 by the Hirshhorn Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, in a show entitled “Probing the Earth: Contemporary Land Projects,” as a forefather of the earthworks movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16278364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278364", "title": "Outline of Algeria", "text": "Outline of Algeria\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Algeria:\n\nAlgeria – former French colony and the largest country in Africa, located in the Maghreb region of Northwest Africa with Algiers as its capital.\n\n\nGeography of Algeria\n\n\n\n\nList of ecoregions in Algeria\n\nProvinces of Algeria\n\n\nDistricts of Algeria\nThe provinces of Algeria are divided into 553 districts (\"daïras\").\n\nMunicipalities of Algeria\nThe districts of Algeria are divided into 1,541 municipalities.\n\nDemographics of Algeria\n\nPolitics of Algeria\n\nGovernment of Algeria\n\n\nCourt system of Algeria\n\nForeign relations of Algeria\n\nInternational organization membership of Algeria\nThe People's Democratic Republic of Algeria is a member of:\n\nLaw in Algeria\n\nMilitary of Algeria\n\nHistory of Algeria\n\n\n\nCulture of Algeria\n\n\n\nSports in Algeria\n\nEconomy of Algeria\n\nEducation in Algeria\n\nAlgeria\n\n"}
{"id": "265059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265059", "title": "Partition of India", "text": "Partition of India\n\nThe Partition of India was the division of British India in 1947 which accompanied the creation of two independent dominions, India and Pakistan. The Dominion of India became, as of 1950, the Republic of India (India), and the Dominion of Pakistan became, as of 1956, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (Pakistan) and also, in 1971, the People's Republic of Bangladesh (Bangladesh). The \"partition\" involved the division of three provinces, Assam, Bengal and Punjab, based on district-wide Hindu or Muslim majorities. The boundary demarcating India and Pakistan came to be known as the Radcliffe Line. It also involved the division of the British Indian Army, the Royal Indian Navy, the Indian Civil Service, the railways, and the central treasury, between the two new dominions. The partition was set forth in the Indian Independence Act 1947 and resulted in the dissolution of the British Raj, as the British government there was called. The two self-governing countries of Pakistan and India legally came into existence at midnight on 14–15 August 1947.\n\nThe partition displaced over 14 million people along religious lines, creating overwhelming refugee crises in the newly constituted dominions; there was large-scale violence, with estimates of loss of life accompanying or preceding the partition disputed and varying between several hundred thousand and two million. The violent nature of the partition created an atmosphere of hostility and suspicion between India and Pakistan that plagues their relationship to the present.\n\nThe term \"partition of India\" does not cover the secession of Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971, nor the earlier separations of Burma (now Myanmar) and Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) from the administration of British India. The term also does not cover the political integration of princely states into the two new dominions, nor the disputes of annexation or division arising in the princely states of Hyderabad, Junagadh, and Jammu and Kashmir, though violence along religious lines did break out in some princely states at the time of the partition. It does not cover the incorporation of the enclaves of French India into India during the period 1947–1954, nor the annexation of Goa and other districts of Portuguese India by India in 1961. Other contemporaneous political entities in the region in 1947, Sikkim, Bhutan, Nepal, and the Maldives were unaffected by the partition.\n\nIn 1905, the viceroy, Lord Curzon, in his second term, divided the largest administrative subdivision in British India, the Bengal Presidency, into the Muslim-majority province of \"East Bengal and Assam\" and the Hindu-majority \"province\" of \"Bengal\" (present-day Indian states of West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha). Curzon's act, the Partition of Bengal—which some considered administratively felicitous, and, which had been contemplated by various colonial administrations since the time of Lord William Bentinck, but never acted upon—was to transform nationalist politics as nothing else before it. The Hindu elite of Bengal, among them many who owned land in East Bengal that was leased out to Muslim peasants, protested fervidly. The large Bengali Hindu middle-class (the \"Bhadralok\"), upset at the prospect of Bengalis being outnumbered in the new Bengal province by Biharis and Oriyas, felt that Curzon's act was punishment for their political assertiveness. The pervasive protests against Curzon's decision took the form predominantly of the \"Swadeshi\" (\"buy Indian\") campaign and involved a boycott of British goods. Sporadically—but flagrantly—the protesters also took to political violence that involved attacks on civilians. The violence, however, was not effective, as most planned attacks were either preempted by the British or failed. The rallying cry for both types of protest was the slogan \"Bande Mataram\" (Bengali, lit: \"Hail to the Mother\"), the title of a song by Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, which invoked a mother goddess, who stood variously for Bengal, India, and the Hindu goddess Kali. The unrest spread from Calcutta to the surrounding regions of Bengal when Calcutta's English-educated students returned home to their villages and towns. The religious stirrings of the slogan and the political outrage over the partition were combined as young men, in groups such as Jugantar, took to bombing public buildings, staging armed robberies, and assassinating British officials. Since Calcutta was the imperial capital, both the outrage and the slogan soon became nationally known.\n\nThe overwhelming, but predominantly Hindu, protest against the partition of Bengal and the fear, in its wake, of reforms favouring the Hindu majority, now led the Muslim elite in India, in 1906, to meet with the new viceroy, Lord Minto, and to ask for separate electorates for Muslims. In conjunction, they demanded proportional legislative representation reflecting both their status as former rulers and their record of cooperating with the British. This led, in December 1906, to the founding of the All-India Muslim League in Dacca. Although Curzon, by now, had resigned his position over a dispute with his military chief Lord Kitchener and returned to England, the League was in favour of his partition plan. The Muslim elite's position, which was reflected in the League's position, had crystallized gradually over the previous three decades, beginning with the 1871 Census of British India, which had first estimated the populations in regions of Muslim majority. (For his part, Curzon's desire to court the Muslims of East Bengal had arisen from British anxieties ever since the 1871 census, the first comprehensive census there—and in light of the history of Muslims fighting them in the 1857 Mutiny and the Second Anglo-Afghan War—about Indian Muslims rebelling against the Crown.) In the three decades since that census, Muslim leaders across northern India, had intermittently experienced public animosity from some of the new Hindu political and social groups. The Arya Samaj, for example, had not only supported Cow Protection Societies in their agitation, but also—distraught at the 1871 Census's Muslim numbers—organized \"reconversion\" events for the purpose of welcoming Muslims back to the Hindu fold. In the United Provinces, Muslims became anxious when, in the late 19th century, political representation increased, giving more power to Hindus, and Hindus were politically mobilized in the Hindi-Urdu controversy and the anti-cow-killing riots of 1893. In 1905, when Tilak and Lajpat Rai attempted to rise to leadership positions in the Congress, and the Congress itself rallied around symbolism of Kali, Muslim fears increased. It was not lost on many Muslims, for example, that the rallying cry, \"Bande Mataram\", had first appeared in the novel \"Anandmath\" in which Hindus had battled their Muslim oppressors. Lastly, the Muslim elite, and among it Dacca Nawab, Khwaja Salimullah, who hosted the League's first meeting in his mansion in Shahbag, was aware that a new province with a Muslim majority would directly benefit Muslims aspiring to political power.\n\nWorld War I would prove to be a watershed in the imperial relationship between Britain and India. 1.4 million Indian and British soldiers of the British Indian Army would take part in the war and their participation would have a wider cultural fallout: news of Indian soldiers fighting and dying with British soldiers, as well as soldiers from dominions like Canada and Australia, would travel to distant corners of the world both in newsprint and by the new medium of the radio. India's international profile would thereby rise and would continue to rise during the 1920s. It was to lead, among other things, to India, under its own name, becoming a of the League of Nations in 1920 and participating, under the name, \"Les Indes Anglaises\" (British India), in the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp. Back in India, especially among the leaders of the Indian National Congress, it would lead to calls for greater self-government for Indians.\n\nThe 1916 Lucknow Session of the Congress was also the venue of an unanticipated mutual effort by the Congress and the Muslim League, the occasion for which was provided by the wartime partnership between Germany and Turkey. Since the Turkish Sultan, or \"Khalifah\", had also sporadically claimed guardianship of the Islamic holy sites of Mecca, Medina, and Jerusalem, and since the British and their allies were now in conflict with Turkey, doubts began to increase among some Indian Muslims about the \"religious neutrality\" of the British, doubts that had already surfaced as a result of the reunification of Bengal in 1911, a decision that was seen as ill-disposed to Muslims. In the Lucknow Pact, the League joined the Congress in the proposal for greater self-government that was campaigned for by Tilak and his supporters; in return, the Congress accepted separate electorates for Muslims in the provincial legislatures as well as the Imperial Legislative Council. In 1916, the Muslim League had anywhere between 500 and 800 members and did not yet have its wider following among Indian Muslims of later years; in the League itself, the pact did not have unanimous backing, having largely been negotiated by a group of \"Young Party\" Muslims from the United Provinces (UP), most prominently, two brothers Mohammad and Shaukat Ali, who had embraced the Pan-Islamic cause; however, it did have the support of a young lawyer from Bombay, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who was later to rise to leadership roles in both the League and the Indian independence movement. In later years, as the full ramifications of the pact unfolded, it was seen as benefiting the Muslim minority \"élites\" of provinces like UP and Bihar more than the Muslim majorities of Punjab and Bengal; nonetheless, at the time, the \"Lucknow Pact\", was an important milestone in nationalistic agitation and was seen so by the British.\n\nSecretary of State for India, Montagu and Viceroy Lord Chelmsford presented a report in July 1918 after a long fact-finding trip through India the previous winter. After more discussion by the government and parliament in Britain, and another tour by the Franchise and Functions Committee for the purpose of identifying who among the Indian population could vote in future elections, the Government of India Act of 1919 (also known as the Montagu–Chelmsford Reforms) was passed in December 1919. The new Act enlarged both the provincial and Imperial legislative councils and repealed the Government of India's recourse to the \"official majority\" in unfavorable votes. Although departments like defence, foreign affairs, criminal law, communications, and income-tax were retained by the Viceroy and the central government in New Delhi, other departments like public health, education, land-revenue, local self-government were transferred to the provinces. The provinces themselves were now to be administered under a new dyarchical system, whereby some areas like education, agriculture, infrastructure development, and local self-government became the preserve of Indian ministers and legislatures, and ultimately the Indian electorates, while others like irrigation, land-revenue, police, prisons, and control of media remained within the purview of the British governor and his executive council. The new Act also made it easier for Indians to be admitted into the civil service and the army officer corps.\n\nA greater number of Indians were now enfranchised, although, for voting at the national level, they constituted only 10% of the total adult male population, many of whom were still illiterate. In the provincial legislatures, the British continued to exercise some control by setting aside seats for special interests they considered cooperative or useful. In particular, rural candidates, generally sympathetic to British rule and less confrontational, were assigned more seats than their urban counterparts. Seats were also reserved for non-Brahmins, landowners, businessmen, and college graduates. The principle of \"communal representation\", an integral part of the Minto-Morley Reforms, and more recently of the Congress-Muslim League Lucknow Pact, was reaffirmed, with seats being reserved for Muslims, Sikhs, Indian Christians, Anglo-Indians, and domiciled Europeans, in both provincial and Imperial legislative councils. The Montagu-Chelmsford reforms offered Indians the most significant opportunity yet for exercising legislative power, especially at the provincial level; however, that opportunity was also restricted by the still limited number of eligible voters, by the small budgets available to provincial legislatures, and by the presence of rural and special interest seats that were seen as instruments of British control.\n\nThe two-nation theory is the ideology that the primary identity and unifying denominator of Muslims in the Indian subcontinent is their religion, rather than their language or ethnicity, and therefore Indian Hindus and Muslims are two distinct nations regardless of such commonalities. The two-nation theory was a founding principle of the Pakistan Movement (i.e., the ideology of Pakistan as a Muslim nation-state in South Asia), and the partition of India in 1947.\n\nThe ideology that religion is the determining factor in defining the nationality of Indian Muslims was undertaken by Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who termed it as the awakening of Muslims for the creation of Pakistan. It is also a source of inspiration to several Hindu nationalist organizations, with causes as varied as the redefinition of Indian Muslims as non-Indian foreigners and second-class citizens in India, the expulsion of all Muslims from India, establishment of a legally Hindu state in India, prohibition of conversions to Islam, and the promotion of conversions or reconversions of Indian Muslims to Hinduism.\n\nThe Hindu Mahasabha leader Lala Lajpat Rai was one of the first persons to demand to bifurcate India by Muslim and non-Muslim population. He wrote in The Tribune of December 14, 1924:\nUnder my scheme the Muslims will have four Muslim States: (1) The Pathan Province or the North-West Frontier; (2) Western Punjab (3) Sindh and (4) Eastern Bengal. If there are compact Muslim communities in any other part of India, sufficiently large to form a province, they should be similarly constituted. But it should be distinctly understood that this is not a united India. It means a clear partition of India into a Muslim India and a non-Muslim India.\n\nThere are varying interpretations of the two-nation theory, based on whether the two postulated nationalities can coexist in one territory or not, with radically different implications. One interpretation argued for sovereign autonomy, including the right to secede, for Muslim-majority areas of the Indian subcontinent, but without any transfer of populations (i.e., Hindus and Muslims would continue to live together). A different interpretation contends that Hindus and Muslims constitute \"two distinct, and frequently antagonistic ways of life, and that therefore they cannot coexist in one nation.\" In this version, a transfer of populations (i.e., the total removal of Hindus from Muslim-majority areas and the total removal of Muslims from Hindu-majority areas) is a desirable step towards a complete separation of two incompatible nations that \"cannot coexist in a harmonious relationship\".\n\nOpposition to the theory has come from two sources. The first is the concept of a single Indian nation, of which Hindus and Muslims are two intertwined communities. This is a founding principle of the modern, officially secular, Republic of India. Even after the formation of Pakistan, debates on whether Muslims and Hindus are distinct nationalities or not continued in that country as well. The second source of opposition is the concept that while Indians are not one nation, neither are the Muslims or Hindus of the subcontinent, and it is instead the relatively homogeneous provincial units of the subcontinent which are true nations and deserving of sovereignty; this view has been presented by the Baloch, Sindhi, and Pashtun sub-nationalities of Pakistan and the Assamese and Punjabi sub-nationalities of India.\n\nAlthough Choudhry Rahmat Ali had in 1933 produced a pamphlet, \"Now or never\", in which the term \"Pakistan\", \"the land of the pure\", comprising the Punjab, North West Frontier Province (Afghania), Kashmir, Sindh, and Balochistan, was coined for the first time, the pamphlet did not attract political attention. A little later, a Muslim delegation to the Parliamentary Committee on Indian Constitutional Reforms gave short shrift to the Pakistan idea, calling it \"chimerical and impracticable\". In 1932, the British Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald accepted Ambedkar's demand for the “Depressed Classes” to have separate representation in the central and provincial legislatures. The Muslim League favoured the award as it had the potential to weaken the caste Hindu leadership. However, Mahatma Gandhi, who was seen as a leading advocate for Dalit rights, went on a fast unto death to persuade the British to repeal the award. Ambedkar had to back down when it seemed Gandhi's life was threatened.\n\nTwo years later, the Government of India Act 1935 introduced provincial autonomy, increasing the number of voters in India to 35 million. More significantly, law and order issues were for the first time devolved from British authority to provincial governments headed by Indians. This increased Muslim anxieties about eventual Hindu domination. In the Indian provincial elections, 1937, the Muslim League turned out its best performance in Muslim-minority provinces such as the United Provinces, where it won 29 of the 64 reserved Muslim seats. However, in the Muslim-majority regions of the Punjab and Bengal regional parties outperformed the League. In the Punjab, the Unionist Part of Sikandar Hayat Khan, won the elections and formed a government, with the support of the Indian National Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal, which lasted five years. In Bengal, the League had to share power in a coalition headed by A. K. Fazlul Huq, the leader of the Krishak Praja Party.\n\nThe Congress, on the other hand, with 716 wins in the total of 1585 provincial assemblies seats, was able to form governments in 7 out of the 11 provinces of British India. In its manifesto, the Congress maintained that religious issues were of lesser importance to the masses than economic and social issues, however, the election revealed that the Congress had contested just 58 out of the total 482 Muslim seats, and of these, it won in only 26. In UP, where the Congress won, it offered to share power with the League on condition that the League stop functioning as a representative only of Muslims, which the League refused. This proved to be a mistake as it alienated the Congress further from the Muslim masses. In addition, the new UP provincial administration promulgated cow protection and the use of Hindi. The Muslim elite in UP was further alienated, when they saw chaotic scenes of the new Congress Raj, in which rural people who sometimes turned up in large numbers in Government buildings, were indistinguishable from the administrators and the law enforcement personnel.\n\nThe Muslim League conducted its own investigation into the conditions of Muslims under Congress-governed provinces. The findings of such investigations increased fear among the Muslim masses of future Hindu domination. The view that Muslims would be unfairly treated in an independent India dominated by the Congress was now a part of the public discourse of Muslims. With the outbreak of World War II in 1939, the viceroy, Lord Linlithgow, declared war on India's behalf without consulting Indian leaders, leading the Congress provincial ministries to resign in protest. The Muslim League, which functioned under state patronage, in contrast, organized \"Deliverance Day\", celebrations (from Congress dominance) and supported Britain in the war effort. When Linlithgow, met with nationalist leaders, he gave the same status to Jinnah as he did to Gandhi, and a month later described the Congress as a \"Hindu organization.\"\n\nIn March 1940, in the League's annual three-day session in Lahore, Jinnah gave a two-hour speech in English, in which were laid out the arguments of the Two-nation theory, stating, in the words of historians Talbot and Singh, that \"Muslims and Hindus ... were irreconcilably opposed monolithic religious communities and as such no settlement could be imposed that did not satisfy the aspirations of the former.\" On the last day of its session, the League passed, what came to be known as the Lahore Resolution, sometimes also \"Pakistan Resolution\", demanding that \"the areas in which the Muslims are numerically in majority as in the North-Western and Eastern zones of India should be grouped to constitute independent states in which the constituent units shall be autonomous and sovereign.\" Though it had been founded more than three decades earlier, the League would gather support among South Asian Muslims only during the Second World War.\n\nViceroy Linlithgow proposed in August 1940 that India be granted a Dominion status at the conclusion of the war. Having not taken the Pakistan idea seriously, Linlithgow supposed that what Jinnah actually wanted was a non-federal arrangement without Hindu domination. To allay Muslim fears of Hindu domination the 'August offer' was accompanied with the promise that a future constitution would take the views of minorities into consideration. Neither the Congress nor Muslim League were satisfied with the offer and both rejected it in September. The Congress once again started a program of civil disobedience.\n\nIn March 1942, with the Japanese fast moving up the Malayan Peninsula after the Fall of Singapore, and with the Americans supporting independence for India, Winston Churchill, the wartime Prime Minister of Britain, sent Sir Stafford Cripps, the leader of the House of Commons, with an offer of dominion status to India at the end of the war in return for the Congress's support for the war effort. Not wishing to lose the support of the allies they had already secured—the Muslim League, Unionists of the Punjab, and the Princes—the Cripps offer included a clause stating that no part of the British Indian Empire would be forced to join the post-war Dominion. The League rejected the Cripps offer, seeing this clause as insufficient in meeting the principle of Pakistan. As a result of that proviso, the proposals were also rejected by the Congress, which, since its founding as a polite group of lawyers in 1885, saw itself as the representative of all Indians of all faiths. After the arrival in 1920 of Gandhi, the preeminent strategist of Indian nationalism, the Congress had been transformed into a mass nationalist movement of millions. In August 1942, the Congress launched the Quit India Resolution which asked for drastic constitutional changes, which the British saw as the most serious threat to their rule since the Indian rebellion of 1857. With their resources and attention already spread thin by a global war, the nervous British immediately jailed the Congress leaders and kept them in jail until August 1945, whereas the Muslim League was now free for the next three years to spread its message. Consequently, the Muslim League's ranks surged during the war, with Jinnah himself admitting, \"The war which nobody welcomed proved to be a blessing in disguise.\" Although there were other important national Muslim politicians such as Congress leader Abul Kalam Azad, and influential regional Muslim politicians such as A. K. Fazlul Huq of the leftist Krishak Praja Party in Bengal, Sikander Hyat Khan of the landlord-dominated Punjab Unionist Party, and Abd al-Ghaffar Khan of the pro-Congress Khudai Khidmatgar (popularly, \"red shirts\") in the North West Frontier Province, the British were to increasingly see the League as the main representative of Muslim India. The Muslim League's demand for Pakistan pitted it against the British and Congress.\n\nLabour Prime Minister Clement Attlee had been deeply interested in Indian independence since the 1920s, and for years had supported independence. He now took charge of the government position and gave the issue highest priority. In January 1946, a number of mutinies broke out in the armed services, starting with that of RAF servicemen frustrated with their slow repatriation to Britain. The mutinies came to a head with mutiny of the Royal Indian Navy in Bombay in February 1946, followed by others in Calcutta, Madras, and Karachi. Although the mutinies were rapidly suppressed, they had the effect of spurring the Attlee government to action. A Cabinet Mission was sent to India led by the Secretary of State for India, Lord Pethick Lawrence, which also included Sir Stafford Cripps, who had visited India four years before. The objective of the mission was to arrange for an orderly transfer to independence.\n\nIn early 1946, new elections were held in India. With the announcement of the elections the line had been drawn for Muslim voters to choose between a united Indian state or Partition. Earlier, at the end of the war in 1945, the colonial government had announced the public trial of three senior officers of Subhas Chandra Bose's defeated Indian National Army who stood accused of treason. Now as the trials began, the Congress leadership, although it never supported the INA, chose to defend the accused officers. The subsequent convictions of the officers, the public outcry against the convictions, and the eventual remission of the sentences created positive propaganda for the Congress, which enabled it to win the party's subsequent electoral victories in eight of the eleven provinces. The negotiations between the Congress and the Muslim League, however, stumbled over the issue of the partition.\n\nBritish rule had lost its legitimacy for most Hindus and conclusive proof of this came in the form of the 1946 elections with the Congress winning 91 percent of the vote among non-Muslim constituencies, thereby gaining a majority in the Central Legislature and forming governments in eight provinces, and becoming the legitimate successor to the British government for most Hindus. If the British intended to stay in India the acquiescence of politically active Indians to British rule would have been in doubt after these election results, although the views of many rural Indians were uncertain even at that point. The Muslim League won the majority of the Muslim vote as well as most reserved Muslim seats in the provincial assemblies and it also secured all the Muslim seats in the Central Assembly. Recovering from its performance in the 1937 elections, the Muslim League was finally able to make good on the claim that it and Jinnah alone represented India's Muslims and Jinnah quickly interpreted this vote as a popular demand for a separate homeland. However, tensions heightened while the Muslim League was unable to form ministries outside the two provinces of Sind and Bengal, with the Congress forming a ministry in the NFWP and the key Punjab province coming under a coalition ministry of the Congress, Sikhs and Unionists.\n\nThe British, while not approving of a separate Muslim homeland, appreciated the simplicity of a single voice to speak on behalf of India's Muslims. Britain had wanted India and its army to remain united for the purpose of keeping India in its system of 'imperial defence'. With India's two political parties unable to come to an agreement, Britain devised the Cabinet Mission Plan. Through this mission, Britain hoped to preserve the united India which they and the Congress desired, while concurrently securing the essence of Jinnah's demand for a Pakistan through 'groupings'. The Cabinet mission scheme encapsulated a federal arrangement consisting of three groups of provinces. Two of these groupings would consist of predominantly Muslim provinces, while the third grouping would be made up of the predominantly Hindu regions. The provinces would be autonomous but the center would retain control over defence, foreign affairs and communications. Though the proposals did not offer independent Pakistan, the Muslim League accepted the proposals. Even though the unity of India would have been preserved, the Congress leaders, especially Nehru, believed it would leave the Center weak. On 10 July 1946 Nehru gave a \"provocative speech\", rejected the idea of grouping the provinces and \"effectively torpedoed\" both the Cabinet mission plan and the prospect of a United India.\n\nAfter the Cabinet Mission broke down, Jinnah proclaimed 16 August 1946 Direct Action Day, with the stated goal of peacefully highlighting the demand for a Muslim homeland in British India. However, on the morning of the 16th, armed Muslim gangs gathered at the Ochterlony Monument in Calcutta to hear Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, the League's Chief Minister of Bengal, who, in the words of historian Yasmin Khan, \"if he did not explicitly incite violence certainly gave the crowd the impression that they could act with impunity, that neither the police nor the military would be called out and that the ministry would turn a blind eye to any action they unleashed in the city.\" That very evening, in Calcutta, Hindus were attacked by returning Muslim celebrants, who carried pamphlets distributed earlier which showed a clear connection between violence and the demand for Pakistan, and directly implicated the celebration of Direct Action Day with the outbreak of the cycle of violence that would later be called the \"Great Calcutta Killing of August 1946\". The next day, Hindus struck back and the violence continued for three days in which approximately 4,000 people died (according to official accounts), Hindus and Muslims in equal numbers. Although India had had outbreaks of religious violence between Hindus and Muslims before, the Calcutta killings were the first to display elements of \"ethnic cleansing\", in modern parlance. Violence was not confined to the public sphere, but homes were entered and destroyed and women and children were attacked. Although the Government of India and the Congress were both shaken by the course of events, in September, a Congress-led interim government was installed, with Jawaharlal Nehru as united India's prime minister.\n\nThe communal violence spread to Bihar (where Muslims were attacked by Hindus), to Noakhali in Bengal (where Hindus were targeted by Muslims), to Garhmukteshwar in the United Provinces (where Muslims were attacked by Hindus), and on to Rawalpindi in March 1947 in which Hindus were attacked or driven out by Muslims.\n\nThe British Prime Minister Attlee appointed Lord Louis Mountbatten as India's last viceroy, who was given the task to oversee British India's independence by June 1948, with the instruction to \"avoid\" partition and \"preserve\" a United India, but with adaptational authority to ensure a British withdrawal with minimal setbacks. Mountbatten hoped to revive the Cabinet Mission scheme for a federal arrangement for India. But despite his initial keenness for preserving the center the tense communal situation caused him to conclude that partition had become necessary for a quicker transfer of power.\n\nVallabhbhai Patel was one of the first Congress leaders to accept the partition of India as a solution to the rising Muslim separatist movement led by Muhammad Ali Jinnah. He had been outraged by Jinnah's Direct Action campaign, which had provoked communal violence across India and by the viceroy's vetoes of his home department's plans to stop the violence on the grounds of constitutionality. Patel severely criticised the viceroy's induction of League ministers into the government, and the revalidation of the grouping scheme by the British without Congress approval. Although further outraged at the League's boycott of the assembly and non-acceptance of the plan of 16 May despite entering government, he was also aware that Jinnah did enjoy popular support amongst Muslims, and that an open conflict between him and the nationalists could degenerate into a Hindu-Muslim civil war of disastrous consequences. The continuation of a divided and weak central government would in Patel's mind, result in the wider fragmentation of India by encouraging more than 600 princely states towards independence. Between the months of December 1946 and January 1947, Patel worked with civil servant V. P. Menon on the latter's suggestion for a separate dominion of Pakistan created out of Muslim-majority provinces. Communal violence in Bengal and Punjab in January and March 1947 further convinced Patel of the soundness of partition. Patel, a fierce critic of Jinnah's demand that the Hindu-majority areas of Punjab and Bengal be included in a Muslim state, obtained the partition of those provinces, thus blocking any possibility of their inclusion in Pakistan. Patel's decisiveness on the partition of Punjab and Bengal had won him many supporters and admirers amongst the Indian public, which had tired of the League's tactics, but he was criticised by Gandhi, Nehru, secular Muslims and socialists for a perceived eagerness to do so. When Lord Louis Mountbatten formally proposed the plan on 3 June 1947, Patel gave his approval and lobbied Nehru and other Congress leaders to accept the proposal. Knowing Gandhi's deep anguish regarding proposals of partition, Patel engaged him in frank discussion in private meetings over the perceived practical unworkability of any Congress-League coalition, the rising violence and the threat of civil war. At the All India Congress Committee meeting called to vote on the proposal, Patel said:I fully appreciate the fears of our brothers from [the Muslim-majority areas]. Nobody likes the division of India and my heart is heavy. But the choice is between one division and many divisions. We must face facts. We cannot give way to emotionalism and sentimentality. The Working Committee has not acted out of fear. But I am afraid of one thing, that all our toil and hard work of these many years might go waste or prove unfruitful. My nine months in office has completely disillusioned me regarding the supposed merits of the Cabinet Mission Plan. Except for a few honorable exceptions, Muslim officials from the top down to the chaprasis (peons or servants) are working for the League. The communal veto given to the League in the Mission Plan would have blocked India's progress at every stage. Whether we like it or not, de facto Pakistan already exists in the Punjab and Bengal. Under the circumstances I would prefer a de jure Pakistan, which may make the League more responsible. Freedom is coming. We have 75 to 80 percent of India, which we can make strong with our own genius. The League can develop the rest of the country.Following Gandhi's denial but Congress' approval of the plan, Patel represented India on the Partition Council, where he oversaw the division of public assets, and selected the Indian council of ministers with Nehru. However, neither he nor any other Indian leader had foreseen the intense violence and population transfer that would take place with partition.\n\nLate in 1946, the Labour government in Britain, its exchequer exhausted by the recently concluded World War II, decided to end British rule of India, and in early 1947 Britain announced its intention of transferring power no later than June 1948. However, with the British army unprepared for the potential for increased violence, the new viceroy, Louis Mountbatten, advanced the date for the transfer of power, allowing less than six months for a mutually agreed plan for independence. In June 1947, the nationalist leaders, including Nehru and Abul Kalam Azad on behalf of the Congress, Jinnah representing the Muslim League, B. R. Ambedkar representing the Untouchable community, and Master Tara Singh representing the Sikhs, agreed to a partition of the country along religious lines in stark opposition to Gandhi's views. The predominantly Hindu and Sikh areas were assigned to the new India and predominantly Muslim areas to the new nation of Pakistan; the plan included a partition of the Muslim-majority provinces of Punjab and Bengal. The communal violence that accompanied the announcement of the Radcliffe Line, the line of partition, was even more horrific.\n\nDescribing the violence that accompanied the Partition of India, historians Ian Talbot and Gurharpal Singh write: There are numerous eyewitness accounts of the maiming and mutilation of victims. The catalogue of horrors includes the disembowelling of pregnant women, the slamming of babies' heads against brick walls, the cutting off of victims limbs and genitalia and the displaying of heads and corpses. While previous communal riots had been deadly, the scale and level of brutality during the Partition massacres was unprecedented. Although some scholars question the use of the term 'genocide' with respect to the Partition massacres, much of the violence was manifested with genocidal tendencies. It was designed to cleanse an existing generation and prevent its future reproduction.\"\n\nOn 14 August 1947, the new Dominion of Pakistan came into being, with Muhammad Ali Jinnah sworn in as its first Governor General in Karachi. The following day, 15 August 1947, India, now a smaller \"Union of India\", became an independent country with official ceremonies taking place in New Delhi, and with Jawaharlal Nehru assuming the office of prime minister, and the viceroy, Louis Mountbatten, staying on as its first Governor General; Gandhi, however, remained in Bengal, preferring instead to work with the new refugees from the partitioned subcontinent.\n\nThe actual division of British India between the two new dominions was accomplished according to what has come to be known as the \"3 June Plan\" or \"Mountbatten Plan\". It was announced at a press conference by Mountbatten on 3 June 1947, when the date of independence–15 August 1947–was also announced . The plan's main points were:\n\nThe Indian political leaders accepted the Plan on 2 June. It did not deal with the question of the princely states, but on 3 June, Mountbatten advised them against remaining independent and urged them to join one of the two new dominions.\n\nThe Muslim League's demands for a separate state were thus conceded. The Congress' position on unity was also taken into account while making Pakistan as small as possible. Mountbatten's formula was to divide India and at the same time retain maximum possible unity.\n\nAbul Kalam Azad expressed concern over the likelihood of violent riots, to which Mountbatten replied:At least on this question I shall give you complete assurance. I shall see to it that there is no bloodshed and riot. I am a soldier and not a civilian. Once partition is accepted in principle, I shall issue orders to see that there are no communal disturbances anywhere in the country. If there should be the slightest agitation, I shall adopt the sternest measures to nip the trouble in the bud. Jagmohan has stated that this and what followed shows the \"glaring\" \"failure of the government machinery\".\n\nOn 3 June 1947, the partition plan was accepted by the Congress Working Committee. \"Boloji\" states that in Punjab there were no riots but there was communal tension, while Gandhi was reportedly isolated by Nehru and Patel and observed \"maun vrat\" (day of silence). Mountbatten visited Gandhi and said he hoped that he would not oppose the partition, to which Gandhi wrote the reply: \"Have I ever opposed you?\"\n\nWithin British India, the border between India and Pakistan (the Radcliffe Line) was determined by a British Government-commissioned report prepared under the chairmanship of a London barrister, Sir Cyril Radcliffe. Pakistan came into being with two non-contiguous enclaves, East Pakistan (today Bangladesh) and West Pakistan, separated geographically by India. India was formed out of the majority Hindu regions of British India, and Pakistan from the majority Muslim areas.\n\nOn 18 July 1947, the British Parliament passed the Indian Independence Act that finalized the arrangements for partition and abandoned British suzerainty over the princely states, of which there were several hundred, leaving them free to choose whether to accede to one of the new dominions. The Government of India Act 1935 was adapted to provide a legal framework for the new dominions.\n\nFollowing its creation as a new country in August 1947, Pakistan applied for membership of the United Nations and was accepted by the General Assembly on 30 September 1947. The Dominion of India continued to have the existing seat as India had been a founding member of the United Nations since 1945.\n\nThe Punjab—the region of the five rivers east of Indus: Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas, and Sutlej—consists of interfluvial \"doabs\", or tracts of land lying between two confluent rivers. These are the \"Sind-Sagar\" doab (between Indus and Jhelum), the \"Jech\" doab (Jhelum/Chenab), the \"Rechna\" doab (Chenab/Ravi), the \"Bari\" doab (Ravi/Beas), and the \"Bist\" doab (Beas/Sutlej) (see map on the right). In early 1947, in the months leading up to the deliberations of the Punjab Boundary Commission, the main disputed areas appeared to be in the \"Bari\" and \"Bist\" doabs, although some areas in the \"Rechna\" doab were claimed by the Congress and Sikhs. In the \"Bari\" doab, the districts of Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Lahore, and Montgomery were all disputed. All districts (other than Amritsar, which was 46.5% Muslim) had Muslim majorities; albeit, in Gurdaspur, the Muslim majority, at 51.1%, was slender. At a smaller area-scale, only three \"tehsils\" (sub-units of a district) in the \"Bari\" doab had non-Muslim majorities. These were: Pathankot (in the extreme north of Gurdaspur, which was not in dispute), and Amritsar and Tarn Taran in Amritsar district. In addition, there were four Muslim-majority tehsils east of Beas-Sutlej (with two where Muslims outnumbered Hindus and Sikhs together).\n\nBefore the Boundary Commission began formal hearings, governments were set up for the East and the West Punjab regions. Their territories were provisionally divided by \"notional division\" based on simple district majorities. In both the Punjab and Bengal, the Boundary Commission consisted of two Muslim and two non-Muslim judges with Sir Cyril Radcliffe as a common chairman. The mission of the Punjab commission was worded generally as: \"To demarcate the boundaries of the two parts of the Punjab, on the basis of ascertaining the contiguous majority areas of Muslims and non-Muslims. In doing so, it will take into account other factors.\" Each side (the Muslims and the Congress/Sikhs) presented its claim through counsel with no liberty to bargain. The judges too had no mandate to compromise and on all major issues they \"divided two and two, leaving Sir Cyril Radcliffe the invidious task of making the actual decisions.\"\n\nMassive population exchanges occurred between the two newly formed states in the months immediately following the Partition. \"The population of undivided India in 1947 was approx 390 million. After partition, there were 330 million people in India, 30 million in West Pakistan, and 30 million people in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).\" Once the lines were established, about 14.5 million people crossed the borders to what they hoped was the relative safety of religious majority. The 1951 Census of Pakistan identified the number of displaced persons in Pakistan at 7,226,600, presumably all Muslims who had entered Pakistan from India. Similarly, the 1951 Census of India enumerated 7,295,870 displaced persons, apparently all Hindus and Sikhs who had moved to India from Pakistan immediately after the Partition. The two numbers add up to 14.5 million. Since both censuses were held about 3.6 years after the Partition, the enumeration included net population increase after the mass migration.\n\nAbout 11.2 million (77.4% of the displaced persons) were in the west, with the Punjab accounting for most of it: 6.5 million Muslims moved from India to West Pakistan, and 4.7 million Hindus and Sikhs moved from West Pakistan to India; thus the net migration in the west from India to West Pakistan (now Pakistan) was 1.8 million.\n\nThe remaining 3.3 million (22.6% of the displaced persons) were in the east: 2.6 million moved from East Pakistan to India and 0.7 million moved from India to East Pakistan (now Bangladesh); thus net migration in the east was 1.9 million into India.\n\nThere was no conception that population transfers would be necessary because of the partitioning. Religious minorities were expected to stay put in the states they found themselves residing in. However, an exception was made for Punjab where transfer of populations were organised because of the communal violence affecting the province. This did not apply to other provinces.\n\nThe Partition of British India split the former British province of Punjab between the Dominion of India and the Dominion of Pakistan. The mostly Muslim western part of the province became Pakistan's Punjab province; the mostly Sikh and Hindu eastern part became India's East Punjab state (later divided into the new states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh). Many Hindus and Sikhs lived in the west, and many Muslims lived in the east, and the fears of all such minorities were so great that the Partition saw many people displaced and much intercommunal violence. Some have described the violence in Punjab as a retributive genocide.\n\nThe newly formed governments had not anticipated, and were completely unequipped for, a two-way migration of such staggering magnitude, and massive violence and slaughter occurred on both sides of the new India-Pakistan border. Estimates of the number of deaths vary, with low estimates at 200,000 and high estimates at 2,000,000. The worst case of violence among all regions is concluded to have taken place in Punjab. Virtually no Muslim survived in East Punjab (except in Malerkotla) and virtually no Hindu or Sikh survived in West Punjab.\n\nLawrence James observed that \"'Sir Francis Mudie, the governor of West Punjab, estimated that 500,000 Muslims died trying to enter his province, while the British high commissioner in Karachi put the full total at 800,000...This makes nonsense of the claim by Mountbatten and his partisans that only 200,000 were killed\": [James 1998: 636]\".\n\nDuring this period, many alleged that Tara Singh was endorsing the killing of Punjabis. On 3 March 1947, at Lahore, Singh along with about 500 Sikhs declared from a dais \"Death to Pakistan\". According to political scientist Ishtiaq Ahmed, \"On March 3, radical Sikh leader Master Tara Singh famously flashed his kirpan (sword) outside the Punjab Assembly, calling for the destruction of the Pakistan idea prompting violent response by the Muslims mainly against Sikhs but also against Hindus, in the Muslim-majority districts of northern Punjab. Yet at the end of that year, more Muslims had been killed in East Punjab than Hindus and Sikhs together in West Punjab.\" Nehru wrote to Gandhi on 22 August that up to that point, twice as many Muslims had been killed in East Punjab than Hindus and Sikhs in West Punjab.\n\nThe province of Bengal was divided into the two separate entities of West Bengal, awarded to the Dominion of India, and East Bengal, awarded to the Dominion of Pakistan. East Bengal was renamed East Pakistan in 1955, and later became the independent nation of Bangladesh after the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971.\n\nWhile the Muslim majority districts of Murshidabad and Malda were given to India, the Hindu majority district of Khulna and the Buddhist majority, but sparsely populated, Chittagong Hill Tracts were given to Pakistan by the Radcliffe award.\n\nThousands of Hindus, located in the districts of East Bengal which were awarded to Pakistan, found themselves being attacked and this religious persecution forced hundreds of thousands of Hindus from East Bengal to seek refuge in India. The huge influx of Hindu refugees into Calcutta affected the demographics of the city. Many Muslims left the city for East Pakistan and some of their homes and properties were occupied by the refugee families.\n\nMost of Sindh's prosperous middle class at the time of Partition was Hindu. At the time of Partition there were 1,400,000 Hindu Sindhis, though most were concentrated in cities such as Hyderabad, Karachi, Shikarpur, and Sukkur. Hundreds of Hindus residing in Sindh were forced to migrate. Some anti-Hindu violence in Sindh was precipitated by the arrival of Muslim refugees from India with minimal local Muslim support for the rioters. Sindhi Hindus faced low scale rioting unlike the Punjabi Hindus and Sikhs who had to migrate from West Punjab.\n\nOn 6 December 1947, communal violence broke out in Ajmer in India, precipitated by an argument between Sindhi Hindu refugees and local Muslims in the Dargah Bazaar. Violence in Ajmer again broke out in the middle of December with stabbings, looting and arson resulting in mostly Muslim casualties. Many Muslims fled across the Thar Desert to Sindh in Pakistan. This sparked further anti-Hindu riots in Hyderabad, Sindh. On 6 January anti-Hindu riots broke out in Karachi, leading to an estimate of 1100 casualties. 776,000 Sindhi Hindus fled to India. The arrival of Sindhi Hindu refugees in North Gujarat's town of Godhra sparked the March 1948 riots there which led to an emigration of Muslims from Godhra to Pakistan.\n\nDespite the migration, a significant Sindhi Hindu population still resides in Pakistan's Sindh province where they number at around 2.28 million as per Pakistan's 1998 census; the Sindhi Hindus in India were at 2.57 million as per India's 2001 Census. Some bordering districts in Sindh had a Hindu majority like Tharparkar District, Umerkot, Mirpurkhas, Sanghar and Badin, but their population is decreasing and they consider themselves a minority in decline. In fact, only Umerkot still has a majority of Hindus in the district. The Sindhi community did not face large scale violence, but felt deprivation of homeland and culture.\n\nDuring the partition, there was no holocaust in Gujarat as there was in Punjab and Bengal. Only about 2.2% of the migrants to Pakistan were from Gujarat and Bombay city, and of them about 75% went to Karachi due to business interests.\n\nFor centuries Delhi had been the capital of the Mughal Empire and of previous Turkic Muslim rulers of North India. The series of Islamic rulers keeping Delhi as a stronghold of their empires left a vast array of Islamic architecture in Delhi and a strong Islamic culture permeated the city. The 1941 Census listed Delhi's population as being 33.22% Muslim.\n\nHowever thousands of Hindu and Sikh refugees from Punjab poured into the city. This created an atmosphere of upheavals as anti-Muslim pogroms rocked the historical stronghold of Indo-Islamic culture and politics. Pakistani diplomat in Delhi, Hussain, alleged that the Indian government was intent on eliminating Delhi's Muslim population or was indifferent to their fate. He reported that Army troops openly gunned down innocent Muslims. Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru estimated 1000 casualties in the city. However other sources claimed that the casualty rate had been 20 times higher. Gyanendra Pandey's more recent account of the Delhi violence puts the figure of Muslim casualties in Delhi as being between 20,000–25,000.\n\nTens of thousands of Muslims were driven to refugee camps regardless of their political affiliations and numerous historic sites in Delhi such as the Purana Qila, Idgah and Nizamuddin were transformed into refugee camps. At the culmination of the tensions in Delhi 330,000 Muslims were forced to flee the city to Pakistan. The 1951 Census registered a drop of the Muslim population in the city from 33.22% in 1941 to 5.33% in 1951.\n\nAlwar and Bharatpur were two princely states of Rajputana (modern day Rajasthan) which were the scene of a bloody confrontation between the dominant, land-holding community of Hindu Jats and the cultivating community of Muslim Meos from May 1947 onwards. Well-organised bands of Hindu Jats, Ahirs and Gujars started attacking Muslim Meos in April 1947. By June more than fifty Muslim villages had been destroyed after attacks by all sides. The Muslim League was outraged and demanded that the Viceroy provide Muslim troops. Accusations emerged in June of the involvement of Indian State Forces from Alwar and Bharatpur in the destruction of Muslim villages both inside their states and in British India.\n\nIn the wake of unprecedented violent attacks unleashed against them in 1947, 100,000 Muslim Meos from Alwar and Bharatpur was forced to flee their homes and an estimated 30,000 Meos are said to have been massacred. On 17 November, a column of 80,000 Meo refugees went on their way to Pakistan. However, 10,000 stopped travelling due to the risk of trying to reach and settle in Pakistan.\n\nIn September–November 1947 in the Jammu region of the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir, a large number of Muslims were massacred and others driven away to West Punjab. The impetus for this violence was partly provided by the influx of a large number of Hindu and Sikh refugees since March 1947, who brought with them \"harrowing stories of Muslim atrocities\", to Jammu from West Punjab. The killings were carried out by extremist Hindus and Sikhs, aided and abetted by the forces of the Dogra State headed by the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir Hari Singh. Observers state that Hari Singh's aim was to alter the demographics of the region by eliminating the Muslim population, in order to ensure a Hindu majority in the region.\n\nAccording to the 1951 Census of India, 2% of India's population were refugees (1.3% from West Pakistan and 0.7% from East Pakistan). Delhi received the largest number of refugees for a single city – the population of Delhi grew rapidly in 1947 from under 1 million (917,939) to a little less than 2 million (1,744,072) during the period 1941–1951. The refugees were housed in various historical and military locations such as the Purana Qila, Red Fort, and military barracks in Kingsway Camp (around the present Delhi University). The latter became the site of one of the largest refugee camps in northern India with more than 35,000 refugees at any given time besides Kurukshetra camp near Panipat. The camp sites were later converted into permanent housing through extensive building projects undertaken by the Government of India from 1948 onwards. A number of housing colonies in Delhi came up around this period like Lajpat Nagar, Rajinder Nagar, Nizamuddin East, Punjabi Bagh, Rehgar Pura, Jangpura and Kingsway Camp. A number of schemes such as the provision of education, employment opportunities, and easy loans to start businesses were provided for the refugees at the all-India level.\n\nMany Sikhs and Hindu Punjabis came from West Punjab and settled in East Punjab (which then also included Haryana and Himachal Pradesh) and Delhi. Hindus fleeing from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) settled across Eastern India and Northeastern India, many ending up in neighbouring Indian states such as West Bengal, Assam, and Tripura. Some migrants were sent to the Andaman islands where Bengalis today form the largest linguistic group.\n\nSindhi Hindus settled predominantly in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. Some, however, settled further afield in Madhya Pradesh. A new township was established for Sindhi Hindu refugees in Maharashtra. The Governor-General of India, Sir Rajagopalachari, laid the foundation for this township and named it Ulhasnagar (namely 'city of joy').\n\nA settlement consisting largely of Sikhs and Punjabi Hindus was also founded in Central Mumbai's Sion Koliwada region, and named Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar. \n\nThe 1951 Census of Pakistan recorded that the largest number of Muslim refugees came from the East Punjab and nearby Rajputana states (Alwar and Bharatpur). They were a number of 5,783,100 and constituted 80.1% of Pakistan's total refugee population. This was the effect of the retributive ethnic cleansing on both sides of the Punjab where the Muslim population of East Punjab was forcibly expelled like the Hindu/Sikh population in West Punjab.\n\nMigration from other regions of India were as follows: Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa, 700,300 or 9.8%; UP and Delhi 464,200 or 2.4%; Gujarat and Bombay, 160,400 or 2.2%; Bhopal and Hyderabad 95,200 or 1.2%; and Madras and Mysore 18,000 or 0.2%.\n\nSo far as their settlement in Pakistan is concerned, 97.4% of the refugees from East Punjab and its contiguous areas went to West Punjab; 95.9% from Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa to the erstwhile East Pakistan; 95.5% from UP and Delhi to West Pakistan, mainly in karachi division of Sindh; 97.2% from Bhopal and Hyderabad to West Pakistan, mainly Karachi; and 98.9% from Bombay and Gujarat to West Pakistan, largely to Karachi; and 98.9% from Madras and Mysore went to West Pakistan, mainly Karachi.\n\nWest Punjab received the largest number of refugees (73.1%), mainly from East Punjab and its contiguous areas. East Bengal received the second largest number of refugees, 699,100, who constituted 9.7% of the total Muslim refugee population in Pakistan. 66.69% of the refugees in East Bengal originated from West Bengal, 14.50% from Bihar and 11.84% from Assam.\n\nSindh received 16.1% of the total migrants while Karachi division of sindh received 8.5% of the total migrant population. NWFP and Baluchistan received the lowest number of migrants. NWFP received 51,100 migrants (0.7% of the migrant population) while Baluchistan received 28,000 (0.4% of the migrant population).\n\nThe Government undertook a census of refugees in West Punjab in 1948, which displayed their place of origin in India.\n\nData on the Number of Muslim refugees in West Punjab from the Districts of East Punjab and Neighbouring Regions\n\nData on the Number of Muslim refugees in West Punjab from the Princely states in East Punjab and Rajputana\nA study of the total population inflows and outflows in the districts of the Punjab, using the data provided by the 1931 and 1951 Census has led to an estimate of 1.26 million missing Muslims who left western India but did not reach Pakistan. The corresponding number of missing Hindus/Sikhs along the western border is estimated to be approximately 0.84 million. This puts the total of missing people, due to Partition-related migration along the Punjab border, to around 2.23 million.\nAnother study of the demographic consequences of partition in the Punjab region using the 1931, 1941 and 1951 censuses concluded that between 2.3 and 3.2 million people went missing in the Punjab.\n\nBoth sides promised each other that they would try to restore women abducted and raped during the riots. The Indian government claimed that 33,000 Hindu and Sikh women were abducted, and the Pakistani government claimed that 50,000 Muslim women were abducted during riots. By 1949, there were governmental claims that 12,000 women had been recovered in India and 6,000 in Pakistan. By 1954, there were 20,728 Muslim women recovered from India and 9,032 Hindu and Sikh women recovered from Pakistan. Most of the Hindu and Sikh women refused to go back to India, fearing that they would never be accepted by their family, a fear mirrored by Muslim women.\n\nEven after the 1951 Census many Muslim families from India continued migrating to Pakistan throughout the 1950s and the early 1960s. According to historian Omar Khalidi the Indian Muslim migration to West Pakistan between December 1947 and December 1971 was from U.P., Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The next stage of migration, which lasted between 1973 and the 1990s, was when the migration of Indian Muslims to Pakistan was reduced to its lowest levels since 1947. The primary destination for these migrants was Karachi and other urban centers in Sindh.\n\nIn 1959, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) published a report stating that from 1951 to 1956, a total of 650,000 Muslims from India relocated to West Pakistan. However, Visaria (1969) raised doubts about the authenticity of the claims about Indian Muslim migration to Pakistan, since the 1961 Census of Pakistan did not corroborate these figures. However, the 1961 Census of Pakistan did incorporate a statement suggesting that there had been a migration of 800,000 people from India to Pakistan throughout the previous decade. Of those who had left for Pakistan, most never came back.\n\nIndian Muslim migration to Pakistan declined drastically in the 1970s, a trend noticed by the Pakistani authorities. On June 1995, Pakistan's interior minister, Naseerullah Babar, informed the National Assembly that between the period of 1973–1994, as many as 800,000 visitors came from India on valid travel documents. Of these only 3,393 stayed. In a related trend, intermarriages between Indian and Pakistani Muslims have declined sharply. According to a November 1995 statement of Riaz Khokhar, the Pakistani High Commissioner in New Delhi, the number of cross-border marriages has declined from 40,000 a year in the 1950s and 1960s to barely 300 annually.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965, 3,500 Muslim families migrated from the Indian part of the Thar Desert to the Pakistani section of the Thar Desert. 400 families were settled in Nagar after the 1965 war and an additional 3000 settled in the Chachro taluka in Sind province of West Pakistan. The government of Pakistan provided each family with 12 acres of land. According to government records this land totalled 42,000 acres.\n\nThe 1951 census in Pakistan recorded 671,000 refugees in East Pakistan, the majority of which came from West Bengal. The rest were from Bihar. According to the ILO in the period 1951–1956, half a million Indian Muslims migrated to East Pakistan. By 1961 the numbers reached 850,000. In the aftermath of the riots in Ranchi and Jamshedpur, Biharis continued to migrate to East Pakistan well into the late sixties and added up to around a million. Crude estimates suggest that about 1.5 million Muslims migrated from West Bengal and Bihar to East Bengal in the two decades after partition.\n\nDue to religious persecution in Pakistan, Hindus continue to flee to India. Most of them tend to settle in the state of Rajasthan in India. According to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan data, just around 1,000 Hindu families fled to India in 2013. In May 2014, a member of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), Dr Ramesh Kumar Vankwani, revealed in the National Assembly of Pakistan that around 5,000 Hindus are migrating from Pakistan to India every year. Since India is not a signatory to the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention it refuses to recognise Pakistani Hindu migrants as refugees.\n\nThe population in the Tharparkar district in the Sind province of West Pakistan was 80% Hindu and 20% Muslim at the time of independence in 1947. During the Indo-Pakistani wars of 1965 and 1971, the Hindu upper castes and their retainers fled to India. This led to a massive demographic shift in the district. In 1978 India gave citizenship to 55,000 Pakistanis. By the time of the 1998 census of Pakistan, Muslims made up 64.42% of the population and Hindus 35.58% of the population in Tharparkar.\n\nThe migration of Hindus from East Pakistan to India continued unabated after partition. The 1951 census in India recorded that 2.523 million refugees arrived from East Pakistan, of which 2.061 million migrated to West Bengal while the rest migrated to Assam, Tripura and other states. These refugees arrived in waves and did not come solely at partition. By 1973 their number reached over 6 million. The following data displays the major waves of refugees from East Pakistan and the incidents which precipitated the migrations.\n\nThe Partition was a highly controversial arrangement, and remains a cause of much tension on the Indian subcontinent today. According to American scholar Allen McGrath many British leaders including the British Viceroy, Mountbatten, were unhappy over the partition of India. Lord Mountbatten of Burma had not only been accused of rushing the process through, but also is alleged to have influenced the Radcliffe Line in India's favour. The commission took longer to decide on a final boundary than on the partition itself. Thus the two nations were granted their independence even before there was a defined boundary between them.\n\nSome critics allege that British haste led to increased cruelties during the Partition. Because independence was declared \"prior\" to the actual Partition, it was up to the new governments of India and Pakistan to keep public order. No large population movements were contemplated; the plan called for safeguards for minorities on both sides of the new border. It was a task at which both states failed. There was a complete breakdown of law and order; many died in riots, massacre, or just from the hardships of their flight to safety. What ensued was one of the largest population movements in recorded history. According to Richard Symonds, at the lowest estimate, half a million people perished and twelve million became homeless.\n\nHowever, many argue that the British were forced to expedite the Partition by events on the ground. Once in office, Mountbatten quickly became aware that if Britain were to avoid involvement in a civil war, which seemed increasingly likely, there was no alternative to partition and a hasty exit from India.\nLaw and order had broken down many times before Partition, with much bloodshed on both sides. A massive civil war was looming by the time Mountbatten became Viceroy. After the Second World War, Britain had limited resources, perhaps insufficient to the task of keeping order. Another viewpoint is that while Mountbatten may have been too hasty he had no real options left and achieved the best he could under difficult circumstances. The historian Lawrence James concurs that in 1947 Mountbatten was left with no option but to cut and run. The alternative seemed to be involvement in a potentially bloody civil war from which it would be difficult to get out.\n\nConservative elements in England consider the partition of India to be the moment that the British Empire ceased to be a world power, following Curzon's dictum: \"the loss of India would mean that Britain drop straight away to a third rate power.\"\nVenkat Dhulipala rejects the idea that the British divide and rule policy was responsible for partition and elaborates on the perspective that Pakistan was popularly imagined as a sovereign Islamic state or a 'New Medina', as a potential successor to the defunct Turkish caliphate and as a leader and protector of the entire Islamic world. Islamic scholars debated over creating Pakistan and its potential to become a true Islamic state The majority of Barelvis supported the creation of Pakistan and believed that any co-operation with Hindus would be counter productive. Most Deobandis, who were led by Maulana Husain Ahmad Madani, were opposed to the creation of Pakistan and the two-nation theory. According to them Muslims and Hindus could be one nation.\n\nIn their authoritative study of the partition, Ian Talbot and Gurharpal Singh have shown that the partition was not the inevitable end of the so-called British 'divide and rule policy' nor was it the inevitable end of Hindu-Muslim differences.\n\nA cross-border student initiative, \"The History Project\", was launched in 2014 to explore the differences in perception of the events during the British era which led to the partition. The project resulted in a book that explains both interpretations of the shared history in Pakistan and India.\n\nBerkeley, California based non-profit organization The 1947 Partition Archive collects oral histories from people who lived through the Partition and consolidates the interviews into an archive.\n\nIn October 2016, The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust (TAACHT) of India set up what they describe as \"the world’s first Partition Museum\" at Town Hall in Amritsar (in Punjab state). The Museum, which is open from Tuesday to Sunday, offers multi-media exhibits and documents that describe both the political process that led to partition and carried it forward, and video and written narratives offered by survivors of the events.\n\nThe partition of India and the associated bloody riots inspired many in India and Pakistan to create literary/cinematic depictions of this event. While some creations depicted the massacres during the refugee migration, others concentrated on the aftermath of the partition in terms of difficulties faced by the refugees in both side of the border. Even now, more than 60 years after the partition, works of fiction and films are made that relate to the events of partition. The early members of the Progressive Artist's Group of Bombay cite \"The Partition\" of India and Pakistan as a key reason for its founding in December 1947. They included FN Souza, MF Husain, SH Raza, SK Bakre, HA Gade and KH Ara, who went on to become some of the most important and influential Indian artists of the 20th Century.\n\nLiterature describing the human cost of independence and partition comprises Bal K. Gupta's memoirs \"Forgotten Atrocities\" (2012), Khushwant Singh's \"Train to Pakistan\" (1956), several short stories such as \"Toba Tek Singh\" (1955) by Saadat Hassan Manto, Urdu poems such as \"Subh-e-Azadi\" (Freedom's Dawn, 1947) by Faiz Ahmad Faiz, Bhisham Sahni's \"Tamas\" (1974), Manohar Malgonkar's \"A Bend in the Ganges\" (1965), Chaman Nahal's \"AZADI\" (1975) originally written in English and winner of the Sahitya Akedemi Award in India (1977), and Bapsi Sidhwa's \"Ice-Candy Man\" (1988), among others. Salman Rushdie's novel \"Midnight's Children\" (1980), which won the Booker Prize and The Best of the Booker, wove its narrative based on the children born with magical abilities on midnight of 14 August 1947. \"Freedom at Midnight\" (1975) is a non-fiction work by Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre that chronicled the events surrounding the first Independence Day celebrations in 1947.\n\nThere is a paucity of films related to the independence and partition. Early films relating to the circumstances of the independence, partition and the aftermath include Nemai Ghosh's \"Chinnamul\" (Bengali) (1950), \"Dharmputra\" (1961) Lahore (1948), Chhalia (1956), Nastik (1953). George Cukor's \"Bhowani Junction\" (1956), Ritwik Ghatak's trilogy of \"Meghe Dhaka Tara\" (Bengali) (1960) / \"Komal Gandhar\" (Bengali) (1961) / \"Subarnarekha\" (Bengali) (1962); later films include \"Garm Hava\" (1973) and \"Tamas\" (1987). From the late 1990s onwards, more films on this theme were made, including several mainstream ones, such as \"Earth\" (1998), \"Train to Pakistan\" (1998) (based on the aforementined book), \"Hey Ram\" (2000), \"\" (2001), \"Khamosh Pani\" (2003), \"Pinjar\" (2003), \"Partition\" (2007), \"Madrasapattinam\" (2010) and \"Viceroy's House\" (2017). The biographical films \"Gandhi\" (1982), \"Jinnah\" (1998) and \"Sardar\" (1993) also feature independence and partition as significant events in their screenplay. A Pakistani drama \"Daastan\", based on the novel Bano, highlights the plight of Muslim girls who were abducted and raped during partition.\n\nThe novel \"Lost Generations\" (2013) by Manjit Sachdeva describes the March 1947 massacre in rural areas of Rawalpindi by the Muslim League, followed by massacres on both sides of the new border in August 1947 seen through the eyes of an escaping Sikh family, their settlement and partial rehabilitation in Delhi, and ending in ruin (including death), for the second time in 1984, at the hands of mobs after a Sikh assassinated the prime minister.\n\nThe 2013 Google India advertisement \"Reunion\" (about the Partition of India) has had a strong impact in India and Pakistan, leading to hope for the easing of travel restrictions between the two countries. It went viral and was viewed more than 1.6 million times before officially debuting on television on 15 November 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52817292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52817292", "title": "Port of Lisbon", "text": "Port of Lisbon\n\nThe Port of Lisbon (Portuguese: \"Porto de Lisboa\") is the third largest port in Portugal, located where the River Tagus and the Atlantic Ocean meet, in the Portuguese capital of Lisbon. Due to its strategic location on the Portuguese coast between Europe, Africa, and the Atlantic, the port is one of the most accessed and utilized in Europe, and is close to the cruise ships terminals.\nThere are data on human presence in the Tagus estuary since prehistory. Probably the Phoenicians were in this area in the 12th Century BC and they would create a commercial port in the north margin of the River Tagus. In 205 BC, the city (known as \"Olissippo\") was conquered by the Romans. In the 5th Century the Suebi conquered the area, followed by the Visigoths. In AD 714, the Moors conquered Lisbon, expanding the port with their Mediterranean and Atlantic trades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84486", "title": "Portage", "text": "Portage\n\nPortage or portaging is the practice of carrying water craft or cargo over land, either around an obstacle in a river, or between two bodies of water. A path where items are regularly carried between bodies of water is also called a \"portage\".\n\nEarly French explorers in New France and French Louisiana encountered many rapids and cascades. The Native Americans carried their canoes over land to avoid river obstacles.\n\nOver time, important portages were sometimes provided with canals with locks, and even portage railways. Primitive portaging generally involves carrying the vessel and its contents across the portage in multiple trips. Small canoes can be portaged by carrying them inverted over one's shoulders and the center strut may be designed in the style of a yoke to facilitate this. Historically, voyageurs often employed tump lines on their heads to carry loads on their backs.\n\nPortages can be many kilometers in length, such as the Methye Portage and the Grand Portage (both in North America) often covering hilly or difficult terrain. Some portages involve very little elevation change, such as the very short Mavis Grind in Shetland, which crosses an isthmus.\n\nThis section deals mostly with the heavy freight canoes used by the Canadian Voyageurs.\n\nPortage trails usually began as animal tracks and were improved by tramping or blazing. In a few places iron-plated wooden rails were laid to take a handcart. Heavily used routes sometimes evolved into roads when sledges, rollers or oxen were used, as at Methye Portage. Sometimes railways (Champlain and St. Lawrence Railroad) or canals were built.\n\nWhen going downstream through rapids an experienced voyageur called the \"guide\" would inspect the rapids and choose between the heavy work of a portage and the life-threatening risk of running the rapids. If the second course were chosen, the boat would be controlled by the \"avant\" standing in front with a long paddle and the \"gouvernail\" standing in the back with a steering paddle. The \"avant\" had a better view and was in charge but the \"gouvernail\" had more control over the boat. The other canoemen provided power under the instructions of the \"avant.\" \nGoing upstream was more difficult, as there were many places where the current was too swift to paddle. Where the river bottom was shallow and firm, voyageurs would stand in the canoe and push it upstream with poles. If the shoreline was reasonably clear the canoe could be 'tracked' or 'lined', that is, the canoemen would pull the canoe on a rope while one man stayed on board to keep it away from the shore. (The most extreme case of tracking was in the Three Gorges in China where all boats had to be pulled upstream against the current of the Yangtze River.) In worse conditions, the 'demi-chargé' technique was used. Half the cargo was unloaded, the canoe forced upstream, unloaded and then returned downstream to pick up the remaining half of the cargo. In still worse currents, the entire cargo was unloaded ('décharge') and carried overland while the canoe was forced upstream. In the worst case a full portage was necessary. The canoe was carried overland by two or four men (the heavier York boats had to be dragged overland on rollers) The cargo was divided into standard packs or \"pièces\" with each man responsible for about six. One portage or canoe pack would be carried by a tumpline and one on the back (strangulated hernia was a common cause of death). To allow regular rests the voyageur would drop his pack at a \"pose\" about every and go back for the next load. The time for a portage was estimated at one hour per half mile.\n\nThe \"Diolkos\" was a paved trackway in Ancient Greece which enabled boats to be moved overland across the Isthmus of Corinth between the Gulf of Corinth and the Saronic Gulf. It was constructed to transport high ranking Despots to conduct business in the justice system. The to long roadway was a rudimentary form of railway, and operated from around 600 BC until the middle of the 1st century AD. The scale on which the Diolkos combined the two principles of the railway and the overland transport of ships was unique in antiquity.\n\nThere is scant literary evidence for two more ship trackways referred to as diolkoi in antiquity, both located in Roman Egypt: The physician Oribasius (c. AD 320–400) records two passages from his 1st century AD colleague Xenocrates, in which the latter casually refers to a diolkos close to the harbor of Alexandria, which may have been located at the southern tip of the island of Pharos. Another diolkos is mentioned by Ptolemy (AD 90–168) in his book on geography (IV, 5, 10) as connecting a false mouth of a partly silted up Nile branch with the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nThe land link between Adige river and Garda lake in Northern Italy, hardly used by the smallest watercraft, was at least once used by the Venetian Republic for the transport of a military fleet in 1439. The land link is now somewhat harder because of the disappearance of Loppio lake.\n\nIn the 8th, 9th and 10th centuries, Viking merchant-adventurers exploited a network of waterways in Eastern Europe, with portages connecting the four most important rivers of the region: Volga, Western Dvina, Dnieper, and Don. The portages of what is now Russia were vital for the Varangian commerce with the Orient and Byzantium.\n\nAt the most important portages (such as Gnezdovo) there were trade outposts inhabited by a mixture of Norse merchants and native population. The Khazars built the fortress of Sarkel to guard a key portage between the Volga and the Don. After Varangian and Khazar power in Eastern Europe waned, Slavic merchants continued to use the portages along the Volga trade route and the Dnieper trade route.\n\nThe names of the towns Volokolamsk and Vyshny Volochek may be translated as \"the portage on the Lama River\" and \"the little upper portage\", respectively (\"volok\" means \"portage\" in Russian, derived from the verb \"to drag\").\n\nIn the 16th century, the Russians used river portages to get to Siberia (see Cherdyn Road).\n\nTarbert is a common place name in Scotland and Ireland indicating the site of a portage.\n\nPortages played an important role in the economy of some African societies. For instance, Bamako was chosen as the capital of Mali because it is located on the Niger River near the rapids that divide the Upper and Middle Niger Valleys.\n\nPlaces where portaging occurred often became temporary and then permanent settlements. The importance of free passage through portages found them included in laws and treaties. One historically-important fur trade portage is now Grand Portage National Monument. Recreational canoeing routes often include portages between lakes, for example, the Seven Carries route in Adirondack Park.\n\nNumerous portages were upgraded to carriageways and railways due to their economic importance. The Niagara Portage had a gravity railway in the 1760s. The passage between the Chicago and Des Plaines Rivers was through a short swamp portage which seasonally flooded and it is thought that a channel gradually developed unintentionally from the dragging of the boat bottoms. The 1835 Champlain and St. Lawrence Railroad connected the cities of New York and Montreal without needing to go through the Atlantic.\n\nMany settlements in North America were named for being on a portage.\n\nPortages existed in a number of locations where an isthmus existed that the local Māori could drag or carry their waka across from the Tasman Sea to the Pacific Ocean or vice versa. The most famous ones are located in Auckland, where there remain two 'Portage Road's in separate parts of the city. The small Marlborough Sounds settlement of Portage lies on the Kenepuru Sound which links Queen Charlotte Sound at Torea Bay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11217970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11217970", "title": "Promontory", "text": "Promontory\n\nA promontory is a raised mass of land that projects into a lowland or a body of water (in which case it is a peninsula).\n\nMost promontories either are formed from a hard ridge of rock that has resisted the erosive forces that have removed the softer rock to the sides of it, or are the high ground that remains between two river valleys where they form a confluence.\n\nThroughout history many forts and castles have been built on promontories because of their inherent defensibility. The promontory forts in Ireland are examples of this. Similarly, the ancient town of Ras Bar Balla in southern Somalia, which in the Middle Ages was part of the Ajuran Sultanate's domain, was built on a small promontory.\n\nRiver confluences consistently provide an added defensive advantage to promontories, acting as a reliable natural moat for the enemy to overcome. The Citadel of Namur, a prime fortified location from the 10th century to this day, lies on the promontory at the confluence of the Meuse and Sambre rivers in the Walloon capital city of Namur, Belgium. Another good example of a confluence promontory fort is Fort Pitt, an English fort during the American Revolution that had previously belonged to the French as Fort Duquesne during the French and Indian War. The surrounding location is known as the city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "3064243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3064243", "title": "Proportional navigation", "text": "Proportional navigation\n\nProportional navigation (also known as PN or Pro-Nav) is a guidance law (analogous to proportional control) used in some form or another by most homing air target missiles. It is based on the fact that two vehicles are on a collision course when their direct Line-of-Sight does not change direction as the range closes. PN dictates that the missile velocity vector should rotate at a rate proportional to the rotation rate of the line of sight (Line-Of-Sight rate or LOS-rate), and in the same direction.\n\nWhere formula_2 is the acceleration perpendicular to instantaneous line of sight, formula_3 is the proportionality constant generally having an integer value 3-5 (dimensionless), formula_4 is the line of sight rate, and V is the closing velocity.\n\nFor example, if the line of sight rotates slowly from north to east, the missile should turn to the right by a certain factor faster than the LOS-rate. This factor is called the Navigation Constant.\nSince the line of sight is not in general co-linear with the missile velocity vector, the applied acceleration does not necessarily preserve the missile kinetic energy. In practice, in the absence of engine throttling capability, this type of control may not be possible.\n\nProportional navigation can also be achieved using an acceleration normal to the instantaneous velocity difference:\n\nwhere formula_6 is the rotation vector of the line of sight:\n\nand formula_8 is the target velocity relative to the missile and formula_9 is the range from missile to target. This acceleration depends explicitly on the velocity difference vector, which may be difficult to obtain in practice. By contrast, in the expressions that follow, dependence is only on the change of the line of sight and the magnitude of the closing velocity. If acceleration normal to the instantaneous line of sight is desired (as in the initial description), then the following expression is valid:\n\nIf energy conserving control is required (as is the case when only using control surfaces), the following acceleration, which is orthogonal to the missile velocity, may be used:\n\nA rather simple hardware implementation of this guidance law can be found in early AIM-9 Sidewinder missiles. These missiles use a rapidly rotating parabolic mirror as a seeker. Simple electronics detect the directional error the seeker has with its target (an IR source), and apply a moment to this gimballed mirror to keep it pointed at the target. Since the mirror is in fact a gyroscope it will keep pointing at the same direction if no external force or moment is applied, regardless of the movements of the missile. The voltage applied to the mirror while keeping it locked on the target is then also used (although amplified) to deflect the control surfaces that steer the missile, thereby making missile velocity vector rotation proportional to line of sight rotation. Although this does not result in a rotation rate that is always exactly proportional to the LOS-rate (which would require a constant airspeed), this implementation is equally effective.\n\nThe basis of proportional navigation was first discovered at sea, and was used by navigators on ships to \"avoid\" collisions. Commonly referred to as Constant Bearing Decreasing Range (CBDR), the concept continues to prove very useful for conning officers (the person in control of navigating the vessel at any point in time) because CBDR will result in a collision or near miss if action is not taken by one of the two vessels involved. Simply altering course until a change in bearing (obtained by compass sighting) occurs, will provide some assurance of avoidance of collision. Obviously not foolproof, the conning officer of the vessel having made the course change, must continually monitor bearing lest the other vessel does the same. Significant course change, rather than a modest alteration, is prudent. International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea dictate which vessel must give way but they, of course, provide no guarantee that action will be taken by that vessel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "510620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=510620", "title": "Provinces of Cambodia", "text": "Provinces of Cambodia\n\nCambodia is divided into 25 provinces (, \"khaet\", singular and plural). The capital Phnom Penh is not a province but an autonomous municipality and is included as the 25th province since it is administered at the same level as the other 24 provinces.\n\nPhnom Penh has both the highest population and the highest population density, but is the second smallest in land area. The largest province by area is Mondulkiri and the smallest is Kep which is also the least populated province. Mondulkiri has the lowest population density despite being the largest province. \n\nEach province is administered by a governor, who is appointed by the Ministry of Interior.\n\nCambodia is subdivided into 163 districts (srok, ស្រុក). The 12 districts of Phnom Penh are called khan (ខណ្ឌ), but even in official documents they are sometimes misidentified as \"srok\". The number of districts in each province varies, from two in the smallest provinces to 14 in Battambang, Prey Veng, and Siem Reap. Further subdivision levels are khum (ឃុំ)(subdistricts), sangkat (សង្កាត់)(quarters) and finally, phum (ភូមិ) (villages). In Phnom Penh there are no \"khum\".\n\nIn 1975 the Khmer Rouge government did away with all former Cambodian traditional administrative divisions. Instead of provinces, Democratic Kampuchea was divided into seven geographic zones: the Northwest, the North, the Northeast, the East, the Southwest, the West and the Centre.\n\nThese zones were derived from divisions established by the Khmer Rouge when they fought against the Khmer Republic during the Cambodian Civil War.\n\nOn 22 December 2008, King Norodom Sihamoni signed a Royal Decree that changed the municipalities of Kep, Pailin and Sihanoukville into provincial municipalities, as well as adjusting several provincial borders.\n\nOn 31 December 2013, King Norodom Sihamoni signed a Royal Decree that split Kampong Cham into two provinces: Kampong Cham (west of the Mekong river) and Tbong Khmum (east of the Mekong river).\n\nIn September 2018, Interior Minister Sar Kheng proposed establishing two more provinces, with one divided from Kandal Province, and the other from Mondulkiri and Ratanakiri Province. However, Prime Minister Hun Sen rejected such a plan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44885218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44885218", "title": "Rhumbline network", "text": "Rhumbline network\n\nA rhumbline network, or more properly called, a windrose network, is a navigational aid drawn on portolan charts. This network is like a web (see picture) forming a grid on the map. The grid can be easily spotted (as parchment is quite translucent) by observing the map from its rear face, with a light source illuminating the other side. The hole in the center of the circle, origin of the whole network, is also clearly visible from the rear.\n\nThe lines are not true rhumb lines in the modern sense (reason to put the title in italics), since these can only be drawn on modern map projections and not on 13th century charts. They were close to true rhumb lines in the Mediterranean area but highly inaccurate in the Teixeira planisphere and the other planispheres drawn in any pre-Mercator projection.\n\nAll portolan maps share this characteristic \"windrose networks\", which emanate out from compass roses located at various points on the map (or mapamundi). These better called \"windrose lines\" are generated \"by observation and the compass\", and designated today: \"lines of course\" or \"lines of rhumb\" (\"rhumb lines\" in the fourteenth century, traced on portolan's particular projection, though not to be confused with modern rhumb lines, meridians or isoazimuthals).\n\nTo understand that those lines should be better called \"windrose lines\", one has to know that portolan maps are characterized by the lack of map projection, for cartometric investigation has revealed that no projection was used in portolans, and those straight lines they could be loxodromes only if the chart was drawn on a suitable projection.\n\nAs leo Bagrow states:\"\"..the word (\"Rhumbline\") is wrongly applied to the sea-charts of this period, since a loxodrome gives an accurate course only when the chart is drawn on a suitable projection. Cartometric investigation has revealed that no projection was used in the early charts, for which we therefore retain the name 'portolan'.\"\"\n\nPujades in his book \"Les cartes portolanes\" has a chapter with all known theories and, with the aim to clarify the controversial arguments, he shows an image of Petrus Vesconte drawing a portolan in one of his maps in which it is visible how he started by drawing first the rhumbline grid. Some authors call it \"winds network\" instead of using the term \"rhumbline network\" or \"network of rhumblines\"\n\nThe circle is divided into sixteen equal parts defining an hexadecagon, then the network of sailing directions \"for a 16 winds rose\" is represented by groups of 16 \"straight lines\" called rhumblines. From each vertex, 7 rhumblines are projected towards the hexadecagon's interior connecting \"in an alternated pace\" to 7 of the vertex opposite to it, but without routing any line to connect that vertex to the other 8 intermixed vertex. The remaining 9 rhumblines (to complete the 16 winds) are projected from each vertex towards the exterior of the hexadecagon, although in some portolans those 9 lines do not appear.\n\nThe lines of the courses for the eight main directions (or winds) are drawn with black ink (or sometimes gold); the eight intermediate directions (half-winds) are drawn in green; and in the case of a 32 winds rose, the sixteen remaining (quarter-winds) are drawn in red. The intersection of this set of \"rhumblines\" determine on the portolans a varied pattern of symmetrical squares, parallelograms, trapezoids and triangles.\n\nThe process for a vellum chart creation used to be as follows:\n\n\nIn large planispheres, especially those containing the oceans (World Map), the cartographer used to draw two hexadecagons with the two opposite corners superimposed in the center of the vellum. There are plenty of mappae mundi that use the double-hexadecagon rhumbline networks but they can not be considered portolan charts since they do not have any ports indicated on them.\n\nIn the Cresques planisphere one is able to read the names of those lines which were winds: tramontana, levante, ponente, mezzogiorno, greco, sirocco, and lebegio. When limited to small seas, planispheres approximately follow both rhumb lines and great circles. But on big oceans they do not follow either of them, due to the imprecision of the map making of that time, corresponding more or less accurately to rhumb lines only in the Mediterranean portolan charts and deviating greatly in the Texeira planisfere (among others).\n\nTo calculate on a portolan chart the course to follow from a point of origin to a point of destination, one should transfer — using a parallel rule — the \"line of course\" drawn from the point of origin to the point of destination, on top of the \"Compass rose\" closest to the ship's position, obtaining on it the theoretical course to be followed when sailing towards the destination. This theoretical course may have to be modified (as many times as needed) when tacking if the wind is right ahead of you, or to correct the effects of leeway, currents, etc... that a sailor with experience should be able to calculate empirically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "262838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262838", "title": "Ruthenians", "text": "Ruthenians\n\nRuthenians and Ruthenes are Latin exonyms formerly used in Western Europe for the ancestors of modern East Slavic peoples, the Rus' people with a Ruthenian Greek Catholic religious background, and Orthodox believers who lived outside the Rus'.\nAlong with Lithuanians and Samogitians, Ruthenians constituted the main population of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which at its fullest extent was called the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, Ruthenia and Samogitia (Ruthenian: Великое князство Литовское, Руское, Жомойтское и иных). \n\nFrom the 9th century, the \"land of the Rus'\", known later as Kievan Rus', was known in Western Europe by a variety of names derived from Rus'. In its broadest usage, \"Ruthenians\" or \"Ruthenes\" referred to peoples which were ancestors of the modern Belarusians, Russians, Rusyns and Ukrainians.\n\nFrom the 9th century, the main Rus' state, which was known later as Kievan Rus' – and is now part of the modern states of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia – was known in Western Europe by a variety of names derived from Rus'. From the 12th century, the land of Rus' was usually known in Western Europe by the Latinised name Ruthenia.\n\nOne of the earliest references to Rus' in a Latinised form was in the 5th century, when king Odoacer styled himself as \"Rex Rhutenorum\".\n\n\"Ruteni\", a misnomer that was also the name of an extinct and unrelated Celtic tribe in Ancient Gaul, was used in reference to Rus' is in the \"Annales Augustani\" of 1089. An alternative early modern Latinisation, \"Rucenus\" (plural \"Ruceni\") was, according to Boris Unbegaun, derived from \"Rusyn\". Baron Herberstein, describing the land of \"Russia\", inhabited by the \"Rutheni\" who call themselves \"Russi\", claimed that the first of the governors who rule \"Russia\" is the Grand Duke of Moscow, the second is the Grand Duke of Lithuania and the third is the King of Poland. \"Encyclopedia of Ukraine\" claims that the word \"Rutheni\" did not include the modern Russians, who were known as \"Moscovitae\".. However, according to modern research studies is to come to conclusion that even after the 16th century the word \"Rutheni\" was associated with all East Slavs. Vasili III of Russia, who ruled the Grand Duchy of Moscow in the 16th century, was known in European Latin sources as \"Rhuteni Imperator\". Jacques Margeret in his book \"Estat de l'empire de Russie, et grande duché de Moscovie\" of 1607 explained, that the name \"Muscovites\" for the population of Tsardom (Empire) of Russia is an error. During conversations they called themselves \"rusaki\" (which is a colloquial term for \"Russians\") and only the citizens of the capital called themself \"Muscovites\". Margeret considered that this error is worse than calling all the French \"Parisians.\" Professor David Frick from the Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute has also found in Vilnius the documents from 1655, which demonstrate that Moscovitae were also known in Lithuania as Rutheni. \nAfter the partition of Poland the term Ruthenian referred exclusively to people of the Rusyn- and Ukrainian-speaking areas of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, especially in the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria, Bukovina, and Transcarpathia.\n\nAt the request of Mykhajlo Levitsky, in 1843 the term Ruthenian became the official name for the Rusyns and Ukrainians within the Austrian Empire. For example, Ivan Franko and Stepan Bandera in their passports were identified as Ruthenians (). By 1900 more and more Ruthenians began to call themselves with the self-designated name Ukrainians. A number of Ukrainian members of the intelligentsia, such as Mykhailo Drahomanov and Ivan Franko, perceived the term as narrow-minded, provincial and Habsburg. With the emergence of Ukrainian nationalism during the mid-19th century, use of \"Ruthenian\" and cognate terms declined among Ukrainians, and fell out of use in Eastern and Central Ukraine. Most people in the western region of Ukraine followed suit later in the 19th century. During the early 20th century, the name \"Ukrajins’ka mova\" (\"Ukrainian language\") became accepted by much of the Ukrainian-speaking literary class in the Austro-Hungarian Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria. \n\nFollowing the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1918, new states emerged and dissolved; borders changed frequently. After several years the Rusyn and Ukrainian speaking areas of eastern Austria-Hungary found themselves divided between the Ukrainian Soviet Republic, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Romania.\n\nIn the Soviet Union the Rusyns were not officially regarded as an ethnicity distinct from Ukrainians. However, the name Ruthenian (or \"Little Ruthenian\") was still often applied to the Rusyn minorities of Czechoslovakia and Poland.\n\nThe Polish census of 1931 listed \"Russian\", \"Ruthenian\" and \"Ukrainian\" (Polish: rossyjski, ruski, ukraiński, respectively) as separate languages.\n\nWhen commenting on the partition of Czechoslovakia by Nazi Germany in March 1939, US diplomat George Kennan noted, \"To those who inquire whether these peasants are Russians or Ukrainians, there is only one answer. They are Neither. They are simply Ruthenians.\" Dr. Paul R. Magosci emphasizes that modern Ruthenians have \"the sense of a nationality distinct from Ukrainians\" and often associate Ukrainians with Soviets or Communists.\n\nAfter the expansion of Soviet Ukraine following World War II, many groups who had not previously considered themselves Ukrainians were merged into the Ukrainian identity\n\nThe government of Slovakia has proclaimed Rusyns (\"Rusíni\") to be a distinct national minority (1991) and recognised Rusyn language as a distinct language (1995).\n\nIn the Interbellum period of the 20th century, the term \"rusyn\" (\"Ruthenian\") was also applied to people from the \"Kresy Wschodnie\" (the eastern borderlands) in the Second Polish Republic, and included Ukrainians, Rusins, and Lemkos, or alternatively, members of the Uniate or Greek Catholic Church churches. In Galicia, the Polish government actively replaced all references to \"Ukrainians\" with the old word \"rusini\" (\"Ruthenians\"), an action that caused many Ukrainians to view their original self-designation with distaste.\n\nThe Polish census of 1921 considered Ukrainians no other than Ruthenians. However the Polish census of 1931 counted Belarusian, Ukrainian, Russian, and Ruthenian as separate language categories, and the census results were substantially different from before. According to Rusyn-American historian Paul Robert Magocsi, Polish government policy in the 1930s pursued a strategy of tribalization, regarding various ethnographic groups—i.e., Lemkos, Boikos, and Hutsuls, as well Old Ruthenians and Russophiles—as different from other Ukrainians (although no such category existed in the Polish census apart from the first-language speakers of Russian.), and offered instructions in Lemko vernacular in state schools set up in the westernmost Lemko Region.\n\nThe designations Rusyn and Carpatho-Rusyn were banned in the Soviet Union by the end of World War II in June 1945. Ruthenians who identified under the Rusyn ethnonym and considered themselves to be a national and linguistic group separate from Ukrainians and Belarusians were relegated to the Carpathian diaspora and formally functioned among the large immigrant communities in the United States. A cross-European revival took place only with the collapse of communist rule in 1989. This has resulted in political conflict and accusations of intrigue against Rusyn activists, including criminal charges. The Ruthenian minority is well represented in Slovakia. The single category of people who listed their ethnicity as Ruthenian was created already in the 1920s, however, no generally accepted standardised Ruthenian language existed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15287746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15287746", "title": "Siwalik region", "text": "Siwalik region\n\nSiwalik is a highland region between the Mahabharat and Chure mountain ranges in Nepal.\n\nThe region has huge deposits of calcium carbonate and of important minerals such as iron, sulfur, and copper; the deposits however, are generally of sub-economic grades that currently are not worth exploiting. The Siwalik Hills are regarded as the most tectonically dynamic zone of the Himalaya, the region's altitude increasing at a rate of 3 mm to 4 mm per year. This is consistent with a rate of upward expansion of kilometres per million years, which in turn implies that the formation is geologically young and tectonically exceptionally active; the substance of the terrain is accordingly crumbly. The hills extend in a narrow east-west belt, only some 15–20 km in width, which marks the northern boundary of the plains of Terai and the southern boundary of Middle-hill Mountains.\n\nThe region is important for two reasons in particular. Firstly, it is the prime source of sediments for the plain of Terai — torrents flowing down the steep gradients erode material from the fragile rock and transport it downstream. The streams slow down as they flow onto the plain, and in consequence they deposit their burden of silt, thereby filling or clogging the streambeds and raising their levels. This aggravates flooding problems in the plains. On the credit side however, the silt replenishes the nutrient content of the soil of the downstream lowland plains, which produce more than 80% of Nepal's agricultural food supply.\n\nThe second important aspect of the significance of the Siwalik region and associated concerns, is that it supports dense sub-tropical forest. Deforestation is increasing in consequence of demands for timber, firewood and litter from the local population. In spite of its protective cover of vegetation, the Siwalik is subject to severe erosion that creates gullies and promotes landslides. This is partly because of the crumbly texture of its pedology and partly because of the intensity of the regional rainfall. The effects of tectonic uplifting may also contribute to the problem, but studies to establish their contribution currently are inadequate. The erosion is of primary concern, both as the main source of sediments and of associated hazards such as debris flow, and the progression of erosion is accelerating the decrease and degradation of the forest resources.\n"}
{"id": "355945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355945", "title": "South Jutland", "text": "South Jutland\n\nThe name South Jutland can refer to various different areas of the peninsula of Jutland in Denmark:\n"}
{"id": "5559303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5559303", "title": "StarFire (navigation system)", "text": "StarFire (navigation system)\n\nStarFire is a wide-area differential GPS developed by John Deere's NavCom and precision farming groups. StarFire broadcasts additional \"correction information\" over satellite L-band frequencies around the world, allowing a StarFire-equipped receiver to produce position measurements accurate to well under one meter, with typical accuracy over a 24-hour period being under 4.5 cm. StarFire is similar to the FAA's differential GPS Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), but considerably more accurate due to a number of techniques that improve its receiver-end processing.\n\nStarFire came about after a meeting in 1994 among John Deere engineers who were attempting to chart a course for future developments. At the time, a number of smaller companies were attempting to introduce yield-mapping systems combining a GPS receiver with a grain counter, which produced maps of a field showing its yield. The engineers felt this was one of the most interesting developments in the industry, but the accuracy of GPS, then still using Selective Availability, was simply too low to produce a useful map. The various providers went bankrupt over the next few years.\n\nIn 1997, a team was formed to solve the problem of providing a more accurate GPS fix. Along with members of John Deere's engineering team, a small project at Stanford University also took part, along with NASA engineers at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. They decided to produce a dGPS system that differed fairly dramatically from similar systems like WAAS.\n\nIn theory the GPS signal with Selective Availability turned off offers accuracy on the order of 3 m. In practice, typical accuracy is about 15 m.\n\nOf this 12 m, about 5 m is due to distortion from \"billows\" in the ionosphere, which introduce propagation delays that makes the satellite appear farther away than it really is. Another 3 to 4 m is accounted for by errors in the satellite ephemeris data, which is used to calculate the positions of the GPS satellites, and by clock drift in the satellite's internal atomic clocks.\n\ndGPS correct for these errors by comparing the position measured using GPS with a known highly accurate ground reference, and then calculating the difference and broadcasting it to users. Some of these corrections apply to any location - the corrections to the clocks and ephemeris data for instance. In contrast, the billows cover only a certain portion of the sky, so a correction measured at any one ground station is only really useful for receivers located nearby. To make the corrections accurate over a large area, one would need to deploy many ground reference stations and broadcast a considerable amount of data for finely divided locations. For instance, WAAS uses twenty-five stations in the continental US, developing a grid spaced 5x5 degrees.\n\nStarFire instead uses an advanced receiver to correct for ionospheric effects internally. To do this, it captures the P(Y) signal that is broadcast on two frequencies, L1 and L2, and compares the effects of the ionosphere on the propagation time of the two. Using this information, the ionospheric effects can be calculated to a very high degree of accuracy, meaning the StarFire dGPS can compensate for variations in propagation delay. The second P(Y) signal is encrypted and cannot be used by civilian receivers directly, but StarFire doesn't use the data contained in the signal; it only compares the phase of the two signals instead. This is expensive in terms of electronics, requiring a second tuner and excellent signal stability to be useful, which is why the StarFire-like solution is not more widely used (at least when it was being created).\n\nWith the ionospheric correction handled internally, the StarFire dGPS signal is greatly reduced in the amount of information it needs to carry, which consists of a set of correction signals for the satellite data alone. Since these corrections are globally valid, and there are only 24 satellites in operation at any time, the total amount of information is quite limited. StarFire broadcasts this data at 300 bits per second, repeating once a second. The corrections are generally valid for about 20 minutes. In addition to ephemeris and clock corrections, the signal also contains information on the health of each satellite, offering quality-of-service data in near real-time, with about a 3-second delay in updating the signals from the ground station.\n\nStarFire has developed through two versions. The first, retroactively known as SF1, offered 1-sigma accuracy of about 1 m. Its error was about 15 to 30 cm, meaning that while the displayed position (absolute accuracy) might be off by about 1 m, it could return you to within centimeters of a previously measured spot (relative accuracy). This was enough for the intended role, field surveying. This system was first offered in 1998, and since its replacement the SF1 signal is apparently now offered for free.\nThe newer system, SF2, was introduced in 2004. It dramatically improves accuracy, with a 1-sigma absolute accuracy of about 4.5 cm. In other words, StarFire will leave you within 4.5 cm of a particular geographical point 65% of the time, and be accurate to under 10 cm around 95% of the time (2-sigma). The relative accuracy is likewise improved, to about 2.5 cm. \n\nEven if the StarFire correction signal is lost for more than 20 minutes, the internal ionospheric corrections alone result in accuracy of about 3 m. StarFire receivers also receive WAAS signals, ignoring their ionospheric data and using their (less detailed) ephemeris and clock adjustment data to provide about 50 cm accuracy. In comparison, \"normal\" GPS receivers generally offer about 15 m accuracy, and ones using WAAS improve this to about 3 m.\n\nWhen initially deployed, StarFire used seven reference stations in the continental US. The corrections generated at these stations are sent to two redundant processing stations (one co-located with a reference/monitor site), and then the resulting signal is uplinked from an east-coast US station. All of the stations are linked over the internet, with dedicated ISDN lines and VSAT links as backups. The resulting signals were broadcast from an Inmarsat III channel.\n\nAdditional StarFire networks were later set up in South America, Australia and Europe, each run from their own reference stations and sending data to their own satellites. As use of the system grew, the decision was made to link the various \"local area\" networks into a single global one. Today the StarFire network uses twenty-five stations worldwide, calculating and uplinking data from the US stations as before. The data collected at these stations is not location-dependent, in contrast to most dGPS, and the large number of sites is used primarily for redundancy.\n\nJohn Deere also sells a Real Time Kinematic dGPS, StarFire RTK. RTK consists of a small tripod-mounted GPS receiver that uses StarFire signals to perform its own dGPS calculations relative to a point, normally the corner of a field. The unit then broadcasts these corrections over a radio link to the equipment-mounted receivers. RTK offers absolute accuracy of about 2 cm, and relative accuracy in the millimeters. This sort of accuracy is used for fully automated equipment with autodrive systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29661574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29661574", "title": "Subtropical climate vegetated roof", "text": "Subtropical climate vegetated roof\n\nA subtropical climate vegetated roof (SCV roof) is a type of green building practice that employs a planted soil media installed above a waterproof roof deck to obtain environmental benefits and address sustainability concerns, similar to traditional green roofs located in northern continental United States. Soil media, plant palettes, and green roof systems that can adapt to the adverse weather conditions and physical characteristics of the humid, subtropical regions of the United States are utilized in the construction and design of subtropical climate vegetated roofs.\n\nGreen roofs are used for various reasons including: urban oasis, storm water mitigation, carbon reduction, energy conservation, aesthetics, and therapeutic values depending on the geographic location and the intended specific goals of the project. Most of the current green roof research pertains to northern parts of the continental United States, whereas, very limited research has been conducted in humid, subtropical regions.\n\nAlthough similar characteristics and principles exist, there are several differences between the two types of environmentally sound roofing systems. These differences are comparable to the differences found between regions of the United States in conventional landscaping and gardening or the variations found in forms of landscaping. Plant species and landscaping methods utilized in northern parts of the United States are not suitable for humid, subtropical regions of United States due to the extreme temperatures and rain events that occur. This accounts for the most significant difference between a green roof in northern United States and a subtropical climate vegetated roof (SCV roof).\n\nA subtropical climate vegetated roof that is well designed according to the specific geographic locations climate can lower roof surface temperatures by as much 38° and depending on the amount of the event retain up to 88% of rainfall. An improperly designed subtropical climate vegetated (SCV roof) using incorrect soil media and plant species can fail by not achieving the intended goals. This roofing method also contributes towards growing the green economy, clean energy technology policies, and qualifies for Federal and local tax incentives, set in place by the United States government.\n\nCompared with other parts of the United States, the number of vegetated roofs currently in the Southeast is significantly less. Vegetated roofs in humid subtropical regions rely on the same core green roof terminologies that are used throughout the world and other parts of the United States. Extensive, intensive, soil media, ballast, filter fabric, drainage layer, waterproof membrane are some of the core green roof component terms associated with SCV roofs.\n\nRegional terms, plant palettes, and technologies are forming to adapt to recent innovations and increased popularity of green roofs in the humid, subtropical regions of the United States. All forms of green roofs have the potential to retain stormwater on the roof surface and lower the thermal loading on buildings. Due to high temperatures, prolonged heat, and excessive amounts of precipitation, humid subtropical regions of the United States receive the greatest environmental benefits provided by SCV roofs, which are: reduced rainwater input into storm water retention systems during rainfall and increased energy performance ratings in buildings. SCV and green roofs increase energy efficiencies of buildings by stabilizing roof surface temperatures. In other regions of the United States, the greatest environmental benefits of green roof design may be different based upon the type of climate the area possesses.\n\nRecent advancements in soil engineering and plastic technologies allow vegetated roofs the ability to adapt to different locations within the humid, subtropical region of the United States. Soil media moisture content and capacity levels can be regulated by using soil elements that adapt to the climate of each specific geographic location and client needs. The amount of moisture retained depends on the maximum moisture retention capacity, the permeability and the depth of the soil media. High density plastics permit SCV roof systems to withstand the weather elements and adjust to varying building types of the region.\n\nAs defined by green roof industry standards, extensive green roofs have a soil media of less than 6 inches in depth and intensive green roofs have a soil media of more than 6 inches in depth. Most SCV roofs that are greater than 6 inches in depth are expensive and found on residential high rise structures, often containing pools and other amenities.\n\nAn SCV roofs requires a unique soil media mixture to adapt to the harsh weather conditions and physical characteristics of the southern United States. Expanded shall and clay are typically used to form a base and comprise up to 90% of some soil media mixtures used throughout the United States. Perlite, vermiculite, ash, tire crumbs, sand, peat moss, and recycled vegetation are some of the other elements utilized in soil media engineering. Albedo and heat transfer rates are key variables to consider when designing an SCV roof and do not have a significant effect on green roofs in the northern continental United States.\n\nThere are three basic SCV and green roof systems available in today’s market: built-up, modular, and mat. These systems vary from manufacture to manufacture and are composed of different materials such as: foam, high density plastic, and fabrics. Many of the systems have geographic limitations and do not perform well in humid, subtropical regions based upon the intent of the system and the materials being used.\n\nMulti-layered systems containing the following functional layers: root barrier, protection layer, drainage layer, filter layer, growing medium and plant level.\n\nSelf-contained units, typically square in shape, that require only the soil medium and vegetative layer for a functioning green roof. These systems are easy to install and remove. Some modular systems are pre-grown at nurseries to client specifications, forming an instant vegetative layer.\n\nSingled-layered systems of this type are drained by a multi-layer fabric mat called a “drainage mat” that combines soil separation, drainage, and protection functions. Current research suggests that the depth of the soil media, material, and amount of layers affect the success rate of an individual green or SCV roof.\n\nA suitable plant species for SCV roofs consist of the following features: drought tolerant, minimal root structure, minimal height, ability to form a vegetative mat, non-rangy, heat tolerant, frost tolerant, and the ability to adapt to a non-traditional soil media. Plant species that have extensive root system and tend to be rangy can puncture waterproofing elements or grow into unwanted areas causing mold and mildew. Water, high nutrient, and shade-dependent plants are not suitable for SCV roofs and should be avoided and can lead to expensive failures.\n\nSome of the most successful SCV roof plant species are in the Crassulaceae and Aizoaceae family which are CAM plants. A plant that uses the crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) as an adaptation for arid conditions. CO entering the stomata during the night is converted into organic acids, which release CO for the Calvin Cycle during the day, when the stomata are closed. CAM plants often show xerophytic features, such as thick, reduced leaves with a low surface-area-to-volume ratio, thick cuticle, and stomata sunken into pits.\n\nGreen roofs in the northern continental United States rely on Sedums which are in the Crassulaceae family. Most varieties of Sedums are not appropriate for humid, subtropical climates and experience root rot and disease problems due to high temperatures and humidity levels. However, two Sedum cultivars, ‘Lemon Coral’ and’ Florida Friendly Gold’ are currently being researched at the University of Florida and appear to be adapting to the humid, subtropical climate of Gainesville, Florida.\n\nExample SCV roof plant palette\n\nSCV roofs confront a magnitude of challenges due the adverse weather conditions of the Southeastern United States. High humidity levels, excessive rain amounts, prolonged heat, mold, mildew, insects, disease, weeds, soil borne disease, maintenance concerns, and sloped roofs are the major challenges faced in designing a SCV roof. High humidity levels, excessive rain amounts, prolonged heat lead to decreased plant health on CAM plants that are standard in green roof design. The decreased plant health causes diseases, insects, root rot, and plant fatality.\n\nSoil-borne diseases occur more frequently due to warm, rainy, humid environment rhythm of the humid, subtropical region. SCV roof plants are researched and tested at several different universities throughout the southeast to avoid system failure and economic loses. Mold and mildew can form on areas of the roof and building when proper ventilation is not taken into consideration and are also repercussions of high humidity levels and prolonged heat.\n\nOne of the greatest challenges to SCV roofs can be hurricanes. The strong hurricane winds can cause uplifting of the roofs. High winds can scour the growth media where the plants are established. Scouring is the blowing of the particles in the growth media from the surface of the vegetated roof, thereby reducing the volume and weight of growth media and its ability to ballast the green roof.\n\nSloped roofs that are prevalent in the southeastern United States also pose a significant challenge for SCV roofs. Soil media erosion and poor plant establishment are the most common problems and can occur on any angle of sloped roof if not designed properly. Erosion blankets and green roof soil media stabilization products are used to mitigate the effects of sloped roofs. Flat roofs and low sloped roofs are conventional roof slopes by the building industry in the southeastern United States and allow for successful implementation of SCV roofs.\n\nFlat roofs – 1% to 2% slope\n\nLow slope-3:12 to 5:12\n\nMedium Slope-6:12 to 9:12\n\nHigh Slope-10:12 to 12:12\n\n\nHere are some of the states where humid subtropical climates can be found:\n\nThe climate in many of these states can vary and be extreme.\n\nBenefits (Performance ratings)\n\nInitially, vegetated roofs can have a high short-term capital but the long-term energy and maintenance savings outweigh them. Even the U.S. Green Building Council and some new advances in green roofs suggest that green buildings don't necessarily have to cost more than a conventional one.\n\nProject name: Shadow Wood Preserve Green Roof Demonstration\n\nProject name: Charles R. Perry Construction Yard, University of Florida\n\nProject name: Student Union Expansion at the University of Central Florida (UCF)\n\n"}
{"id": "248860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248860", "title": "Theodolite", "text": "Theodolite\n\nA theodolite is a precision optical instrument for measuring angles between designated visible points in the horizontal and vertical planes. The traditional use has been for land surveying, but they are also used extensively for building and infrastructure construction, and some specialized applications such as meteorology and rocket launching. \n\nIt consists of a moveable telescope mounted so it can rotate around horizontal and vertical axes and provide angular readouts. These indicate the orientation of the telescope, and are used to relate the first point sighted through the telescope to subsequent sightings of other points from the same theodolite position. These angles can be measured with great accuracy, typically to milliradian or seconds of arc. From these readings a plan can be drawn, or objects can be positioned in accordance with an existing plan. The modern theodolite has evolved into what is known as a total station where angles and distances are measured electronically, and are read directly to computer memory. \n\nIn a transit theodolite, the telescope is short enough to rotate through the zenith, otherwise for non-transit instruments vertical (or altitude), rotation is restricted to a limited arc. \n\nThe optical level is sometimes mistaken for a theodolite, but it does not measure vertical angles, and is used only for levelling on a horizontal plane.\n\nTemporary adjustments are a set of operations necessary in order to make a theodolite ready for taking observations at a station. These include its setting up, centering, leveling up and elimination of parallax, and are achieved in four steps:\n\n\nSightings are taken by the surveyor, who adjusts the telescope's vertical and horizontal angular orientation so the cross-hairs align with the desired sighting point. Both angles are read either from exposed or internal scales and recorded. The next object is then sighted and recorded without moving the position of the instrument and tripod.\n\nThe earliest angular readouts were from open vernier scales directly visible to the eye. Gradually these scales were enclosed for physical protection, and finally became an indirect optical readout, with convoluted light paths to bring them to a convenient place on the instrument for viewing. The modern digital theodolites have electronic displays.\n\nIndex error - The angles in the vertical axis should read 90° (100 grad) when the sight axis is horizontal, or 270° (300 grad) when the instrument is transited. Half of the difference between the two positions is called the \"index error\". This can only be checked on transit instruments.\n\nHorizontal axis error - The horizontal and vertical axes of a theodolite must be perpendicular; if not then a \"horizontal axis error\" exists. This can be tested by aligning the tubular spirit bubble parallel to a line between two footscrews and setting the bubble central. A horizontal axis error is present if the bubble runs off central when the tubular spirit bubble is reversed (turned through 180°). To adjust, the operator removes 1/2 the amount the bubble has run off using the adjusting screw, then re-level, test and refine the adjustment.\n\nCollimation error - The optical axis of the telescope, must also be perpendicular to the horizontal axis. If not, then a \"collimation error\" exists.\n\nIndex error, horizontal-axis error ('trunnion-axis error') and collimation error are regularly determined by calibration and are removed by mechanical adjustment. Their existence is taken into account in the choice of measurement procedure in order to eliminate their effect on the measurement results of the theodolite.\n\nThe term \"diopter\" was sometimes used in old texts as a synonym for theodolite. This derives from an older astronomical instrument called a dioptra.\n\nPrior to the theodolite, instruments such as the groma, geometric square and various other graduated circles (see circumferentor) and semicircles (see graphometer) were used to obtain either vertical or horizontal angle measurements. It was only a matter of time before someone put two measuring devices into a single instrument that could measure both angles simultaneously. Gregorius Reisch showed such an instrument in the appendix of his book \"Margarita Philosophica\", which he published in Strasburg in 1512. It was described in the appendix by Martin Waldseemüller, a German topographer and cartographer, who made the device in the same year. Waldseemüller called his instrument the \"polimetrum\".\n\nThe first occurrence of the word \"theodolite\" is found in the surveying textbook \"A geometric practice named Pantometria\" (1571) by Leonard Digges, which was published posthumously by his son, Thomas Digges. The etymology of the word is unknown. The first part of the New Latin \"theo-delitus\" might stem from the Greek \"θεᾶσθαι\", \"to behold or look attentively upon\" or \"θεῖν\" \"to run\", but the second part is more puzzling and is often attributed to an unscholarly variation of one of the following Greek words: \"δῆλος\", meaning \"evident\" or \"clear\", or \"δολιχός\" \"long\", or \"δοῦλος\" \"slave\", or an unattested Neolatin compound combining \"ὁδός\" \"way\" and \"λιτός\" \"plain\". It has been also suggested that \"-delitus\" is a variation of the Latin supine \"deletus\", in the sense of \"crossed out\".\n\nThere is some confusion about the instrument to which the name was originally applied. Some identify the early theodolite as an azimuth instrument only, while others specify it as an altazimuth instrument. In Digges's book, the name \"theodolite\" described an instrument for measuring horizontal angles only. He also described an instrument that measured both altitude and azimuth, which he called a \"topographicall instrument\" . Thus the name originally applied only to the azimuth instrument and only later became associated with the altazimuth instrument. The 1728 \"Cyclopaedia\" compares \"graphometer\" to \"half-theodolite\". Even as late as the 19th century, the instrument for measuring horizontal angles only was called a \"simple theodolite\" and the altazimuth instrument, the \"plain theodolite\".\n\nThe first instrument more like a true theodolite was likely the one built by Joshua Habermel (Erasmus Habermehl) in Germany in 1576, complete with compass and tripod.\n\nThe earliest altazimuth instruments consisted of a base graduated with a full circle at the limb and a vertical angle measuring device, most often a semicircle. An alidade on the base was used to sight an object for horizontal angle measurement, and a second alidade was mounted on the vertical semicircle. Later instruments had a single alidade on the vertical semicircle and the entire semicircle was mounted so as to be used to indicate horizontal angles directly. Eventually, the simple, open-sight alidade was replaced with a sighting telescope. This was first done by Jonathan Sisson in 1725.\n\nThe theodolite became a modern, accurate instrument in 1787, with the introduction of Jesse Ramsden's famous great theodolite, which he created using a very accurate dividing engine of his own design. The demand could not be met by foreign theodolites owing to their inadequate precision, hence all instruments meeting high precision requirements were made in England. Despite the many German instrument builders at the turn of the century, there were no usable German theodolites available. A transition was brought about by Breithaupt and the symbiosis of Utzschneider, Reichenbach and Fraunhofer.\nAs technology progressed, in the 1840s, the vertical partial circle was replaced with a full circle, and both vertical and horizontal circles were finely graduated. This was the \"transit theodolite\". Theodolites were later adapted to a wider variety of mountings and uses. In the 1870s, an interesting waterborne version of the theodolite (using a pendulum device to counteract wave movement) was invented by Edward Samuel Ritchie. It was used by the U.S. Navy to take the first precision surveys of American harbors on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, Heinrich Wild produced theodolites that became popular with surveyors. His Wild T2, T3, and A1 instruments were made for many years, and he would go on to develop the DK1, DKM1, DM2, DKM2, and DKM3 for Kern Aarau company. With continuing refinements, instruments steadily evolved into the modern theodolite used by surveyors today.\n\nTriangulation, as invented by Gemma Frisius around 1533, consists of making such direction plots of the surrounding landscape from two separate standpoints. The two graphing papers are superimposed, providing a scale model of the landscape, or rather the targets in it. The true scale can be obtained by measuring one distance both in the real terrain and in the graphical representation.\n\nModern triangulation as, e.g., practised by Snellius, is the same procedure executed by numerical means. Photogrammetric block adjustment of stereo pairs of aerial photographs is a modern, three-dimensional variant.\n\nIn the late 1780s, Jesse Ramsden, a Yorkshireman from Halifax, England who had developed the dividing engine for dividing angular scales accurately to within a second of arc (≈ 0.0048 mrad or 4.8 µrad), was commissioned to build a new instrument for the British Ordnance Survey. The Ramsden theodolite was used over the next few years to map the whole of southern Britain by triangulation.\n\nIn network measurement, the use of forced centering speeds up operations while maintaining the highest precision. The theodolite or the target can be rapidly removed from, or socketed into, the forced centering plate with sub-millimeter precision. Nowadays GPS antennas used for geodetic positioning use a similar mounting system. The height of the reference point of the theodolite—or the target—above the ground benchmark must be measured precisely.\n\nThe term transit theodolite, or transit for short, refers to a type of theodolite that was developed in the early 19th century. It was popular with American railroad engineers pushing west, and it replaced the railroad compass, sextant and octant. It features a vertical circle which is graduated through the full 360 degrees and a telescope that could \"flip over\" (\"transit the scope\"). By reversing the telescope and at the same time rotating the instrument through 180 degrees about the vertical axis, the instrument can be used in 'plate-left' or 'plate-right' modes ('plate' refers to the vertical protractor circle). By measuring the same horizontal and vertical angles in these two modes and then averaging the results, centering and collimating errors in the instrument can be eliminated. Some transit instruments are capable of reading angles directly to thirty arc-seconds (≈ 0.15 mrad). Modern theodolites are usually of the transit-theodolite design, but engraved plates have been replaced with glass plates designed to be read with light-emitting diodes and computer circuitry, greatly improving accuracy.\n\nThere is a long history of theodolite use in measuring winds aloft, by using specially-manufactured theodolites to track the horizontal and vertical angles of special weather balloons called \"ceiling balloons\" or \"pilot balloons\" (\"pibal\"). Early attempts at this were made in the opening years of the nineteenth century, but the instruments and procedures weren't fully developed until a hundred years later. This method was extensively used in World War II and thereafter, and was gradually replaced by radio and GPS measuring systems from the 1980s onward.\n\nThe pibal theodolite uses a prism to bend the optical path by 90 degrees so the operator's eye position does not change as the elevation is changed through a complete 180 degrees. The theodolite is typically mounted on a rugged steel stand, set up so it is level and pointed north, with the altitude and azimuth scales reading zero degrees. A balloon is released in front of the theodolite, and its position is precisely tracked, usually once a minute. The balloons are carefully constructed and filled, so their rate of ascent can be known fairly accurately in advance. Mathematical calculations on time, rate of ascent, azimuth and angular altitude can produce good estimates of wind speed and direction at various altitudes.\n\nIn modern electronic theodolites, the readout of the horizontal and vertical circles is usually done with a rotary encoder. These produce signals indicating the altitude and azimuth of the telescope which are fed to a microprocessor. CCD sensors have been added to the focal plane of the telescope allowing both auto-targeting and the automated measurement of residual target offset. All this is implemented in embedded software of the processor.\n\nMany modern theodolites are equipped with integrated electro-optical distance measuring devices, generally infrared based, allowing the measurement in one step of complete three-dimensional vectors—albeit in instrument-defined polar co-ordinates, which can then be transformed to a pre-existing co-ordinate system in the area by means of a sufficient number of control points. This technique is called a resection solution or free station position surveying and is widely used in mapping surveying.\n\nSuch instruments are \"intelligent\" theodolites called self-registering tacheometers or colloquially \"total stations\", and perform all the necessary angular and distance calculations, and the results or raw data can be downloaded to external processors, such as ruggedized laptops, PDAs or programmable calculators\n\nA gyrotheodolite is used when the north-south reference bearing of the meridian is required in the absence of astronomical star sights. This occurs mainly in the underground mining industry and in tunnel engineering. For example, where a conduit must pass under a river, a vertical shaft on each side of the river might be connected by a horizontal tunnel. A gyrotheodolite can be operated at the surface and then again at the foot of the shafts to identify the directions needed to tunnel between the base of the two shafts. Unlike an artificial horizon or inertial navigation system, a gyrotheodolite cannot be relocated while it is operating. It must be restarted again at each site.\n\nThe gyrotheodolite comprises a normal theodolite with an attachment that contains a gyroscope mounted so as to sense rotation of the Earth and from that the alignment of the meridian. The meridian is the plane that contains both the axis of the Earth's rotation and the observer. The intersection of the meridian plane with the horizontal contains the true north-south geographic reference bearing required. The gyrotheodolite is usually referred to as being able to determine or find true north.\n\nA gyrotheodolite will function at the equator and in both the northern and southern hemispheres. The meridian is undefined at the geographic poles. A gyrotheodolite cannot be used at the poles where the Earth's axis is precisely perpendicular to the horizontal axis of the spinner, indeed it is not normally used within about 15 degrees of the pole because the east-west component of the Earth's rotation is insufficient to obtain reliable results. When available, astronomical star sights are able to give the meridian bearing to better than one hundred times the accuracy of the gyrotheodolite. Where this extra precision is not required, the gyrotheodolite is able to produce a result quickly without the need for night observations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6900141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6900141", "title": "Thomas Jefferys", "text": "Thomas Jefferys\n\nThomas Jefferys (c. 1719 – 1771), \"Geographer to King George III\", was an English cartographer who was the leading map supplier of his day. He engraved and printed maps for government and other official bodies and produced a wide range of commercial maps and atlases, especially of North America.\n\nAs \"Geographer to the Prince of Wales\", he produced \"A Plan of all the Houses, destroyed & damaged by the Great Fire, which begun in Exchange Alley Cornhill, on Friday March 25, 1748\". He produced \"The Small English Atlas\" with Thomas Kitchin, and he engraved plans of towns in the English Midlands.\n\nIn 1754, Jefferys published a \"Map of the Most Inhabited Part of Virginia\" which had been surveyed by Joshua Fry and Peter Jefferson in 1751. The next year he published a map of New England surveyed by John Green, and in 1768 he published \"A General Topography of North America and the West Indies\" in association with Robert Sayer. In 1775, after his death, collections of his maps were published by Sayer as \"The American Atlas\" and \"The West-India Atlas\".\n\nIn 1754, Jefferys participated in the controversy with the French on the boundary of Nova Scotia and Acadia, which arose in the time and context of Father Le Loutre's War, which is commonly held to have begun in 1749 and ended with the expulsion of the Acadians in 1755.\n\nJefferys post-humously in 1776 lent his name to . It contains works by, amongst others, Joshua Fry and Peter Jefferson,\n\nJefferys commissioned surveys and published maps of several English counties. These were large-scale maps with several sheets for each county; in the case of Bedfordshire and Huntingdonshire the scale was two inches to one mile (1:31680).\n\n\nAfter the death of Jefferys, these maps were re-issued by other map publishers such as William Faden.\n"}
{"id": "5180071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5180071", "title": "Turkanaland", "text": "Turkanaland\n\nThe land of the Turkana people. Turkanaland lies on the north- west corner of Kenya\n"}
{"id": "29018074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29018074", "title": "Western Azerbaijan (political concept)", "text": "Western Azerbaijan (political concept)\n\nWestern Azerbaijan () is an irredentist political concept that is used in the Republic of Azerbaijan mostly to refer to the territory of the Republic of Armenia. Azerbaijani statements claim that the territory of the modern Armenian republic were lands that once belonged to Azerbaijanis. Its claims are primarily hinged over the contention that the current Armenian territory was under the rule of various Turkic tribes, empires and khanates from the late medieval period until the Treaty of Turkmenchay signed after the Russo-Persian War, 1826-1828. The concept has received official sanction by the government of Azerbaijan, and has been used by its current president, Ilham Aliyev, who has repeatedly stated that the territory of Armenia is a part of \"ancient Turk and Azerbaijani land.\"\nThe present-day territory of Armenia and the western part of Azerbaijan is historically known as Armenian Highlands. \n\nIn the medieval era, the Oghuz Turkic Seljuks, Kara Koyunlu and Ak Koyunlu held sway in the region. Afterward the area was under the control of the Safavid Empire.\n\nUnder the Iranian Safavids, the area that constitutes the bulk of the present-day Republic of Armenia, was organized as the Erivan Province. The Erivan Province also had Nakhchivan as one of its administrative jurisdictions. A number of the Safavid era governors of the Erivan Province were of Turkic origin. Together with the Karabagh province, the Erivan Province comprised Iranian Armenia. \n\nIranian ruler Nader Shah (r. 1736-1747) later established the Erivan Khanate (i.e. province); from then on, together with the smaller Nakchivan Khanate, these two administrative entities constituted Iranian Armenia. In the Erivan Khanate, the Armenian citizens had partial autonomy under the immediate jurisdiction of the melik of Erevan. In the Qajar era, members of the royal Qajar dynasty were appointed as governors of the Erivan khanate, until the Russian occupation in 1828. The heads of the provincial government of the Erivan Khanate were thus directly related to the central ruling dynasty. \n\nIn 1828, per the Treaty of Turkmenchay, Iran was forced to cede the Erivan and Nakhchivan Khanates to the Russians. These two territories, which had constituted Iranian Armenia prior to 1828, were added together by the Russians and then renamed into the \"Armenian Oblast\".\n\nUntil the mid-fourteenth century, Armenians had constituted a majority in Eastern Armenia. \nAt the close of the fourteenth century, after Timur's campaigns, Islam had become the dominant faith, and Armenians became a minority in Eastern Armenia. After centuries of constant warfare on the Armenian Plateau, many Armenians chose to emigrate and settle elsewhere. Following Shah Abbas I's massive relocation of Armenians and Muslims in 1604-05, their numbers dwindled even further.\n\nSome 80% of the population of Iranian Armenia were Muslims (Persians, Turkics, and Kurds) whereas Christian Armenians constituted a minority of about 20%. As a result of the Treaty of Gulistan (1813) and the Treaty of Turkmenchay (1828), Iran was forced to cede Iranian Armenia (which also constituted the present-day Republic of Armenia), to the Russians.\n\nAfter the Russian administration took hold of Iranian Armenia, the ethnic make-up shifted, and thus for the first time in more than four centuries, ethnic Armenians started to form a majority once again in one part of historic Armenia. The new Russian administration encouraged the settling of ethnic Armenians from Iran proper and Ottoman Turkey. As a result, by 1832, the number of ethnic Armenians had matched that of the Muslims. Anyhow, it would be only after the Crimean War and the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-1878, which brought another influx of Turkish Armenians, that ethnic Armenians once again established a solid majority in Eastern Armenia. Nevertheless, the city of Erivan remained having a Muslim majority up to the twentieth century. According to the traveller H. F. B. Lynch, the city was about 50% Armenian and 50% Muslim (Azerbaijanis and Persians) in the early 1890s.\n\nAccording to the Russian census of 1897, a significant population of Azeris still lived in Russian Armenia. They numbered about 300,000 persons or 37.8% in Russia's Erivan Governorate (roughly corresponding to most of present-day central Armenia, the Iğdır Province of Turkey, and Azerbaijan's Nakhichevan exclave, but excluding Zangezur and most of northern Armenia). Most lived in rural areas and were engaged in farming and carpet-weaving. They formed the majority in 4 of the governorate's 7 districts (including Igdir and Nakhichevan, which are not part of Armenia today and Sharur-Daralagyoz district which is mostly in Azerbaijan) and were nearly as many as the Armenians in Yerevan (42.6% against 43.2%). At the time, Eastern Armenian cultural life was centered more around the holy city of Echmiadzin, seat of the Armenian Apostolic Church. \n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, there were 149 Azerbaijani, 91 Kurdish and 81 Armenian villages in Zangezur. Traveller Luigi Villari reported in 1905 that in Erivan the Tatars (modern-day \"Azerbaijanis\") were generally wealthier than the Armenians, and owned nearly all of the land.\n\nSome Azeri sources claim that currently there is not a single Azerbaijani in Armenia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19219339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19219339", "title": "World altitude record (mountaineering)", "text": "World altitude record (mountaineering)\n\nIn the history of mountaineering, the world altitude record referred to the highest point on the Earth's surface which had been reached, regardless of whether that point was an actual summit. The world summit record referred to the highest mountain to have been successfully climbed. The terms are most commonly used in relation to the history of mountaineering in the Himalaya and Karakoram ranges, though modern evidence suggests that it was not until the 20th century that mountaineers in the Himalaya exceeded the heights which had been reached in the Andes. The altitude and summit records rose steadily during the early 20th century until 1953, when the ascent of Mount Everest made the concept obsolete.\n\nEuropean exploration of the Himalaya began in earnest during the mid-19th century, and the earliest people known to have climbed in the range were surveyors of the Great Trigonometric Survey (GTS). During the 1850s and 1860s they climbed dozens of peaks of over 6,100 m (20,000 ft) and several of over 6,400 m (21,000 ft) in order to make observations, and it was during this period that claims to have ascended the highest point yet reached by man began to be made.\n\nMost of these early claims have now been rendered invalid by the discovery of the bodies of three children at the 6,739 m (22,110 ft) summit of Llullaillaco in South America: Inca sacrifices dated to around AD 1500. There is no direct evidence that the Incas reached higher points, but the discovery of the skeleton of a guanaco on the summit ridge of Aconcagua (6,962 m, 22,841 ft) suggests that they also climbed on that mountain, and the possibility of Pre-Columbian ascents of South America's highest peak cannot be ruled out.\n\nIn the Himalaya yaks have been reported at heights of up to 6,100 m (20,000 ft) and the summer snow line can be as high as 6,500 m (21,300 ft). It is likely that local inhabitants went to such heights in search of game, and possibly higher while exploring trade routes, but they did not live there, and there is no evidence that they attempted to climb the summits of the Himalaya before the arrival of Europeans.\n\nIn August 1855, the Bavarian brothers Adolf and Robert Schlagintweit of the Magnetic Survey of India made an attempt to climb Kamet (7,756 m), in the Garhwal region of Uttarakhand, India, near the Tibetan border. Spending 10 days above they approached the mountain from the Tibetan side, climbing the northwest ridge of the subsidiary peak Abi Gamin. From their highest camp at , they and some of their guides and carriers reached an altitude of according to their barometric measurements, which would have put them higher than Llullaillaco. \n\nMany early claims of world altitude records are muddied by incomplete surveying and lack of knowledge of local geography, which have led to reassessments of many of the heights which were originally claimed. In 1862 a \"khalasi\" (an Indian assistant of the GTS) climbed Shilla, a summit in Himachal Pradesh which was claimed to be over 7,000 m (23,000 ft) high. More recent surveys have, however, fixed its height at 6,111 m (20,049 ft). Three years later William Johnson of the GTS claimed to have climbed a 7,284 m (23,898 ft) peak during an illicit journey into China, but the mountain he climbed has since been measured at 6,710 m (22,014 ft).\n\nThe first pure mountaineers (as opposed to surveyors) to have climbed in the Himalaya were the English barrister William Graham, the Swiss hotelier Emil Boss and the Swiss mountain guide Ulrich Kauffmann, who together climbed extensively in the area in 1883. The previous year Graham had made the first ascent of the Dent du Géant, and Boss and Kauffmann had equally notably very nearly made the first ascent of Aoraki / Mount Cook in New Zealand. Among others, they claimed a near ascent of Dunagiri (reaching about 6,900 m), an ascent of Changabang (6,864 m, 22,520 ft) in July in the Garhwal Himalaya, and an ascent to 30 feet below the east summit of Kabru south of Kangchenjunga in October, but most of the ascents are disputed. It is not claimed that they lied about their ascents, rather that the poor quality of maps at the time may have led them to be unsure of which mountain they were actually on, and to make estimates of their height which owed more to wishful thinking than scientific measurements. Their description of Changabang is so at variance with the mountain itself that their claim was doubted almost immediately, and by 1955 was not taken seriously anymore.\n\nThe team's ascent over the east face of Kabru is less readily dismissed. Although their report of views of Mount Everest from the top appears convincing, Graham's description of the ascent was also vague, and this, coupled with the speed of their claimed ascent and his failure to report significant effects of altitude sickness, have led many to assume that here they also climbed a lower peak in the same area. Their claim was, however, supported in the following years by climbers such as Douglas Freshfield, Norman Collie, Edmund Garwood, Carl Rubenson, and Tom Longstaff, and more recently Walt Unsworth has argued that as a man who was more interested in climbing than in making observations, the vagueness of his description is to be expected, and that now Everest has been climbed in a single day without oxygen, his claims sound less outlandish than they once did. In 2009, Willy Blaser and Glyn Hughes wrote a spirited defense of the ascent in the \"Alpine Journal\", arguing that Graham and Boss's criticism of the maps of the Garhwal Himalaya had led to bad blood. If Graham, Boss and Kaufmann did climb Kabru it was a remarkable achievement for its time, establishing an altitude record which was not broken for twenty-six years.\n\nNine years later, another claim to the world altitude record was made by Martin Conway in the course of his expedition to the Karakoram in 1892. Together with Matthias Zurbriggen and Charles Granville Bruce, Conway made an attempt on Baltoro Kangri and on 25 August reached a subsidiary summit which he named \"Pioneer Peak\". The barometer showed a height of 22,600 ft (6,900 m) which Conway optimistically rounded up to 23,000 ft (over 7,000 m). However, Pioneer Peak has since been measured at only .\n\nOn 14 January 1897, Matthias Zurbriggen went on to make the first recorded ascent of Aconcagua in the Andes. Aconcagua is high and, if the claims of Boss and Graham are discounted, was still the highest point to have been reached at that time.\nIt was several more years before the 7,000 m barrier would be broken with reasonable certainty. In July 1905 Tom George Longstaff, accompanied by the alpine guides Alexis and Henri Brocherel from Courmayeur and six local porters, made an attempt on Gurla Mandhata. The height they reached is estimated at between 7,000 m (23,000 ft) and 7,300 m (24,000 ft), greater than the height of Aconcagua. \nIn 1907 Longstaff and the Brocherel brothers returned to the Himalayas and led an expedition with the aim of climbing Nanda Devi, but unable to penetrate its \"sanctuary\" of surrounding peaks turned their attention to Trisul, which they climbed on June 12. At Trisul became the highest summit to have been climbed whose height was accurately known and whose ascent was undisputed.\n\nThis altitude record, though not the summit record, was broken a few months later, on 20 October 1907, when the Norwegians Carl W. Rubenson and Monrad Aas came within 50 m of ascending the 7338 m east summit of Kabru. It is noteworthy that Carl Rubenson afterwards believed that Graham, Boss and Kaufmann had ascended that summit 24 years before.\n\nAn undisputed new altitude record was achieved in 1909 by the Duke of the Abruzzi's expedition to the Karakoram. After failing to make progress on K2 the Duke made an attempt on Chogolisa, where he reached a height of approximately 7,500 m (24,600 ft) before turning around just 150 m below the summit due to bad weather and the risk of falling through a cornice in poor visibility.\n\nThe undisputed summit record, though not the altitude record, was broken by 8 meters on June 14, 1911, when the Scottish chemist, explorer, and mountaineer Alec Kellas together with the Sherpas \"Sony\" and \"Tuny's brother\" climbed the high Pauhunri on the border of Sikkim and Tibet. Until the late 20th century this mountain was thought to be only , so this record was not realized at the time.\n\nThe world altitude record was not broken again until the British expeditions to Mount Everest, and would then become the exclusive preserve of climbers on the world's highest mountain. On the the record was broken twice. On 20 May, George Mallory, Howard Somervell and Edward Norton reached on the mountain's North Ridge, without using supplemental oxygen. Three days later George Finch and Geoffrey Bruce, using supplemental oxygen, followed the same route and went even higher—turning around at about when Bruce's oxygen apparatus failed.\nIn 1924 the British made another attempt on Everest, and the world altitude record was again broken. On 4 June, Edward Norton, without supplemental oxygen, reached a point on the mountain's Great Couloir high, his companion Howard Somervell having turned around a short distance before. This was an altitude record which would not be broken, with certainty, until the 1950s, or without supplemental oxygen until 1978. Three days later George Mallory and Andrew Irvine disappeared while making their own attempt on the summit. There has been much debate over whether they reached a greater height than Norton, or even the summit, but as there is no direct proof they are not generally credited with a record.\n\nThe British made several further expeditions to Mount Everest in the 1930s. Twice in 1933 climbing parties reached approximately the same point as Norton; first Lawrence Wager and Percy Wyn-Harris, and later Frank Smythe, but there was no advance on Norton's record.\n\nWhile there would be no advance on the altitude record until the 1950s, the summit record was broken five times in the inter-war years.\n\nThe first was by just another 6 meters, when on 15 September 1928 the German mountaineers Karl Wien and and the Austrian mountaineer and cartographer reached the summit of the Kaufman Peak in the Pamirs, a mountain up to that year thought to be the highest mountain in the Soviet Union. After the expedition, it was renamed Lenin Peak.\n\nThe next advance was a by-product of the international expedition to Kanchenjunga led by Günter Dyhrenfurth in 1930. The attempt on Kanchenjunga itself was abandoned after an avalanche had killed Chettan Sherpa, but members of the team stayed to climb a number of smaller peaks in the area. , who had barely escaped the avalanche, broke his own summit record twice in two weeks: on 24 May he solo-climbed Nepal Peak near Kirat Chuli, and on 3 June and he climbed Jongsong Peak, planting a Swabian and Tyrolean flag on top.\n\nIn 1931 the summit record was broken again with the ascent of Kamet. Frank Smythe, Eric Shipton, R.L. Holdsworth and Lewa Sherpa reached the summit on 21 June. At , Kamet was the first mountain over 7,500 m and 25,000 ft to be climbed.\n\nThe summit record was raised once more before the Second World War brought an effective halt to mountaineering in the Himalaya. Nanda Devi, at the highest mountain wholly within the British Empire, had been the object of several expeditions, and it was finally climbed on 29 August 1936 by Bill Tilman and Noel Odell.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the formerly closed and secretive kingdom of Nepal, wary of the intentions of the People's Republic of China and seeking friends in the West, began to open its borders. For the first time its peaks, including the south side of Everest, became accessible to Western mountaineers, triggering a new wave of exploration. There was one further improvement on the summit record before Everest was conquered. On 3 June 1950 Annapurna (8,091 m, 26,545 ft) became the first 8,000 m mountain to be climbed when the French climbers Maurice Herzog and Louis Lachenal reached its summit on the 1950 French Annapurna expedition. Both Herzog and Lachenal lost their toes to frostbite; Herzog also lost most of his fingers.\nThe first attempt to climb Everest from the south was made by a Swiss team in 1952. The expedition's high point was reached by Raymond Lambert and the team's Nepali Indian sardar Tenzing Norgay on 26 May, when they reached a point approximately 200 m (650 ft) below the South Summit before turning around in the knowledge that they would not reach the summit in daylight. Their estimated height of 8,600 m (28,210 ft) was slightly higher than the previous altitude record set by the British on the north side of the mountain. The Swiss made further attempts later in May, and again in autumn after the monsoon, but did not regain Lambert and Tenzing's high point.\n\nMount Everest was climbed the following year. On 26 May, three days before the successful attempt, Tom Bourdillon and Charles Evans reached the South Summit before turning back due to malfunctioning oxygen apparatus. Their height of 8,760 m (28,750 ft) represented a new, short lived, altitude record, and can be seen as a summit record if this is taken to include minor tops as well as genuine mountains. Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay finally reached the 8,848 m (29,029 ft) true summit on 29 May 1953, marking the final chapter in the history of the mountaineering altitude record. While the exact height of Everest's summit is subject to minor variation due to the level of snow cover and the gradual upthrust of the Himalaya, significant changes to the world altitude record are now impossible.\n\nFemale mountaineers were rare in the early 20th century, and the maximum height attained by a woman lagged behind that claimed by male climbers. The first woman to climb extensively in the Karakoram was Fanny Bullock Workman, who made a number of ascents, including that of Pinnacle Peak, a subsidiary summit of Nun Kun, in 1906. Her claim on the women's altitude record was challenged by Annie Smith Peck in 1908 after she made an ascent of the north peak of Huascarán, which she claimed was higher than Pinnacle Peak. The ensuing controversy was bitter and public, and eventually resolved in Bullock Workman's favour when she hired a team of surveyors to measure the height of Huascarán. The north peak was found to be tall - some 600 m lower than Smith Peck's estimate.\n\nIn 1934 , wife of Günter Dyhrenfurth, became the first woman to exceed 7000 m when she climbed Sia Kangri (). Her summit record would stand for 40 years, though her altitude record was broken by the French climber Claude Kogan, who reached approximately on Cho Oyu in 1954. The following year saw the first all-female team to visit the Himalaya, making the first ascent of Gyalgen Peak, .\n\nThe first female ascent of an 8000 m peak came in 1974, when three Japanese women, Masako Uchida, Mieko Mori and Naoko Nakaseko climbed Manaslu, at . A year later Junko Tabei of Japan made the first female ascent of Mount Everest on 16 May 1975.\n\nThe highest mountain to have had a female first ascent is Gasherbrum III, , which was first climbed by Alison Chadwick-Onyszkiewicz and Wanda Rutkiewicz (along with two male climbers) in August 1975.\n\n"}
{"id": "2395253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2395253", "title": "Ziryab", "text": "Ziryab\n\nAbu l-Hasan 'Ali Ibn Nafi or Ziryab (789–857; ) was a singer, oud player, composer, poet, and teacher who lived and worked in Iraq, Northern Africa, and Andalusia of the medieval Islamic period. He was also known as a polymath, with knowledge in astronomy, geography, meteorology, botanics, cosmetics, culinary art and fashion. His nickname Ziryab comes from the Persian word for jay-bird زرياب, pronounced \"Ziryab\"; he is also known as (blackbird) in Spanish. He was active at the Umayyad court of Córdoba in Islamic Iberia. He first achieved notoriety at the Abbasid court in Baghdad, Iraq, his birthplace, as a performer and student of the great Persian musician and composer, Ishaq al-Mawsili. The Mawsili family was originally from the city of Kufa, Iraq.\n\nZiryab was a gifted pupil of Ishaq al-Mawsili, where Ziryab got his first lessons. He left Baghdad during the reign of the Abbasid caliph al-Ma'mun and moved to Córdoba in southern Iberian Peninsula, where he was accepted as court musician in the court of Abd ar-Rahman II of the Umayyad Dynasty.\n\nZiryab's career flourished in Al-Andalus. According to the \"Encyclopedia of Islam\", he was born around 175 AH/790 CE into a family of mawali of the caliph al-Mahdi. His ethnic origin is disputed, different sources list him as either African, Arab, Kurdish, or Persian.\n\nThe word \"Ziryab\" is translated as 'Blackbird'. Ziryab was well known for his black skin color and versatile tongue, which inspired his nickname.\n\nAs the Islamic armies conquered more and more territories, their musical culture spread with them, as far as western China in the east and Iberia in the west. After their 8th century conquest of nearly all of Hispania, which they renamed Al-Andalus, the Muslims were a small minority for quite some time, greatly outnumbered by the majority Christians and a smaller community of Jews, who had their own styles of music. With their arrival, the Muslims and Arabs introduced new styles of music, and the main cities of Iberia soon became well known centers for music within the Islamic world. During the 8th and 9th centuries, many musicians and artists from across the Islamic world flocked to Iberia. While many were talented, Ziryab surpassed them all.\n\nZiryab was most likely born in Baghdad, though Arab sources say he was born in Mosul and was trained in the art of music from a young age. During that time, Baghdad was an important center of music in the Muslim world. The sources all agree that the accomplished and talented musician Ishaq al-Mawsili was Ziryab's teacher. There is some debate about how he arrived in al-Andalus, but he may have offended his patron or some powerful figure with his musical talent.\n\nOne account recorded by al-Maqqari says that Ziryab inspired the jealousy of his mentor by giving an impressive performance for the caliph Harun al-Rashid (d. 809), with the result that al-Mawsili told him to leave the city. Earlier, more reliable sources indicate that he outlived both Harun and his son al-Amin and left after al-Amin's death in 813.\n\nZiryab left Baghdad during the reign of al-Ma'mun some time after the year 813. He then traveled first to (Syria), then to Ifriqiya (Tunisia), where he lived at the Aghlabid court of Ziyadat Allah (ruled 816–837). Ziryab fell out with Ziyadat Allah but was invited to Al-Andalus by the Umayyad prince, Al-Hakam I (ruled 796–822). He found on arrival in 822 that the prince had died, but the prince's son, Abd ar-Rahman II, renewed his father's invitation. Ziryab settled in Córdoba he was honored a monthly salary of 200 Gold Dinars, he soon became even more celebrated as the court's aficionado of food, fashion, singing and music. He introduced standards of excellence in all these fields as well as setting new norms for elegant and noble manners. Ziryab became such a prominent cultural figure, and was given a huge salary from Abd al Rahman II. He was an intimate companion of the prince and established a school of music that trained singers and musicians which influenced musical performance for at least two generations after him.\n\nAl-Maqqari states in his \"Nafh al-Tib\" (Fragrant Breeze): \"There never was, either before or after him (Ziryab), a man of his profession who was more generally beloved and admired\".\n\nZiryab is said to have improved the Oud (or Laúd) by adding a fifth pair of strings, and using an eagle's beak or quill instead of a wooden pick. Ziryab also dyed the four strings a color to symbolize the Aristotelian humors, and the fifth string to represent the soul. He is said to have created a unique and influential style of musical performance, and written songs that were performed in Iberia for generations. He was a great influence on Spanish music, and is considered the founder of the Andalusian music traditions of North Africa.\n\nZiryab's Baghdadi musical style became very popular in the court of Abd al-Rahman II. Ziryab also became the example of how a courtier, a person who attended aristocratic courts, should act. According to Ibn Hayyan, in common with erudite men of his time he was well versed in many areas of classical study such as astronomy, history, and geography.\n\nAccording to al-Tifashi, Ziryab appears to have popularized an early song-sequence, which may have been a precursor to the nawba (originally simply a performer's \"turn\" to perform for the prince), or Nuba, which is known today as the classical Arabic music of North Africa, though the connections are tenuous at best.\n\nAbd al-Rahman II was a great patron of the arts and Ziryab was given a great deal of freedom. He established one of the first schools of music in Córdoba. This school incorporated both male and female students, who were very popular amongst the aristocracy of the time. According to Ibn Hayyan, Ziryab developed various tests for them. If a student didn't have a large vocal capacity, for instance, he would put pieces of wood in their jaw to force them to hold their mouth open. Or he would tie a sash tightly around the waist in order to make them breathe in a particular way, and he would test incoming students by having them sing as loudly and as long a note as they possibly could to see whether they had lung capacity.\n\nAccording to the main source, Ibn Hayyan, Ziryab had eight sons and two daughters. Five of the sons and both daughters became musicians of some prominence. These children kept their father's music school alive, but the female slave singers he trained also were regarded as reliable sources for his repertoire in the following generation.\n\nZiryab started a vogue by changing clothes according to the weather and season. He suggested different clothing for mornings, afternoons and evenings. Henri Terrasse, a French historian of North Africa, commented that legend attributes winter and summer clothing styles and \"the luxurious dress of the Orient\" found in Morocco today to Ziryab, but argues that \"Without a doubt, a lone man could not achieve this transformation. It is rather a development which shook the Muslim world in general ...\"\n\nHe created a new type of deodorant to get rid of bad odors and also promoted morning and evening baths and emphasized the maintenance of personal hygiene. Ziryab is thought to have invented an early toothpaste, which he popularized throughout Islamic Iberia. The exact ingredients of this toothpaste are not currently known, but it was reported to have been both \"functional and pleasant to taste.\".\n\nAccording to Al-Maqqari before the arrival of Ziryab, all the people of al-Andalus, in the Cordoban court, wore their long hair parted in the middle and hung down loose down to the shoulders, men and women; Ziryab had his hair cut with bangs down to his eyebrows and straight across his forehead, \"new short hairstyles leaving the neck, ears and eyebrows free,\". He popularized shaving among men and set new haircut trends. Royalty used to wash their hair with rose water, but Ziryab introduced the use of salt and fragrant oils to improve the hair's condition.\n\nZiryab is alleged by some to have opened beauty parlors for women of the Cordoban elite. However, this is not supported by the early sources.\n\nHe was an arbiter of culinary fashion and taste, who also \"revolutionized the local cuisine\" by introducing new fruit and vegetables such as asparagus, and by introducing the three-course meal served on leathern tablecloths, insisting that meals should be served in three separate courses consisting of soup, the main course, and dessert. He also introduced the use of crystal as a container for drinks, which was more effective than metal. This claim is supported by accounts of him cutting large crystal goblets. Prior to his time, food was served plainly on platters on bare tables, as was the case with the Romans.\n\nZiryab revolutionized the court at Córdoba and made it the stylistic capital of its time. Whether introducing new clothes, styles, foods, hygiene products, or music, Ziryab changed al-Andalusian culture forever. The musical contributions of Ziryab alone are staggering, laying the early groundwork for classic Spanish music. Ziryab transcended music and style and became a revolutionary cultural figure in 8th and 9th century Iberia.\n\n\n\n"}
