{"id": "18480351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18480351", "title": "1-800-FREE-411", "text": "1-800-FREE-411\n\n1-800-FREE-411 is an American service offering advertising-supported directory assistance, operated by Marchex.\n\nCallers dial 1-800 (888 or 866)-FREE411 [373-3411] from any phone in the United States to use the toll-free service. Sponsors cover part of the service cost by playing advertising messages during the call. Callers always hear an ad at the beginning of the call, and then another after they have made their request. Callers then identify the city and state for the desired information, and can then search either by name or by business type. Free directory assistance is also available from an application for the iPhone and Android mobile phones, and from their website. The service, provided entirely by computer and with no human operators, uses a voice-recognition database to recognize names or places spoken by the user.\n\nThe original parent corporation, Jingle Networks, was formed in 2005, and received its initial funding from First Round Capital of $400,000. By the spring of 2008 it had, according to TechCrunch, \"captured a six percent market share of directory assistance calls.\" At that time, Jingle Networks received 20 million calls per month. Since that peak, the company has reported fewer calls, around 15 million per month, as consumers shift to smart-phones to get directory information.\n\nOn October 23, 2006, Jingle Networks announced that it raised $30 million in fourth round financing from Goldman Sachs and Hearst Corporation. This came after a $26 million round in April 2006, and a $5 million round in December 2005. Also on that date, Jingle Network's CEO volunteered on TechCrunch that his company was losing on average 5 cents for every call they processed. On June 25, 2008, TechCrunch repeated Jingle's press releases that they had reached per-call profitability.\n\nJingle Networks aims at attracting customers away from an existing fee-based market. The \"Wall Street Journal\" described it as \"inspired by the business model of Google\".\nFrom 2005 through the early 2010, Jingle Networks guessed they saved consumers $1 billion based on an inflated rate of $2 a call for directory assistance.\n\nIn April 2011, Marchex bought Jingle Networks for $62.5M in combination of cash and stock. Marchex says Jingle Networks will generate more than $26 million in 2011 revenue, up more than 40 percent over 2010. Marchex said it expects call-driven revenue to make up 75 percent of the company's 2011 revenue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52817101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52817101", "title": "1953 Alcoa Aluminum advertisement", "text": "1953 Alcoa Aluminum advertisement\n\nIn 1953 Alcoa Aluminum produced an advertisement promoting their HyTop twist-off bottle cap. The advertisement, often erroneously attributed to Del Monte Foods, featured a picture of a woman with the tagline \"you mean a woman can open it?\" The advertisement has been subject to criticism in later reviews and is viewed as a symbol of casual sexism in the United States in the 1950s.\n\nThe advertisement features a woman wearing red lipstick and looking at the reader while holding a Del Monte ketchup bottle with the appearance of being about to open it. The tagline directly below it is, \"You mean a woman can open it?\" with the word \"woman\" underlined. The first sentence of the article it accompanied stated, \"Easily—without a knife blade, a bottle opener, or even a husband!\"\n\nThe advertisement has been described as an example of targeted advertising towards women, is viewed as a symbol of social stereotypes during the 1950s, and is frequently cited as emblematic of the \"Mad Men\" era. Scholarly interpretation states that it implies that a woman is dependent upon her husband to do things for her. In one such commentary, the \"New York Daily News\" stated that the woman in the advertisement is \"clearly stunned and possibly delighted\" at being able to open the bottle easily. In addition, the advertisement has been used as a symbol of retro advertising, with a book bearing the same title as the tagline being published in 2000 by Adams Media detailing retro advertisements. It has been claimed that it enforced the stereotype of a woman as an unintelligent housewife.\n"}
{"id": "33238026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33238026", "title": "2011 Bulgaria antiziganist protests", "text": "2011 Bulgaria antiziganist protests\n\nThe 2011 Bulgaria antiziganist protests started during the night of 23 to 24 September 2011 in the village Katunitsa and later spread to other locations all over the country, including Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, Pleven, Ruse, Pazardzhik, Stara Zagora and others. These protests were accompanied with racist chants and called for violence against Romani. The riots in Katunitsa led to the burning of two cars and four houses, owned by different members of the family of the alleged Romani crime boss Kiril Rashkov, also known as \"Tsar Kiro\". The United Nations and the OSCE condemned the demonstrations and the violence.\n\nThe protests started in response to the vehicular homicide of 19 years old Angel Petrov in Katunitsa. The murder was committed by 55 years old Simeon Yosifov, who is believed to be a close associate of crime boss Kiril Rashkov. The death of Angel Petrov was preceded by death threats involving a \"car accident\", which were published in the Bulgarian video-sharing website \"vbox7\".\n\nProtests continued on 1 October in Sofia, with 2000 Bulgarians marching against the Romani and what they viewed to be the \"impunity and the corruption\" of the political elite in the country.\n\nVolen Siderov, leader of the far-right Ataka party and presidential candidate, spoke to a crowd at the Presidential Palace in Sofia, calling for the death penalty to be reinstated, as well as Romani ghettos to be dismantled.\nMany of these organized protests were accompanied by ethnic clashes and racist violence against Romani. The protesters shouted racist slogans like \"Gypsies into soap\" and \"Turks under the knife.\" Many protesters were arrested for public order offenses. The news media labelled the protests as anti-Romani Pogroms.\n\nAccording to the BBC, President Georgy Parvanov called on the protesters for \"an end to the language of hatred\". Parvanov and Prime Minister Boyko Borisov called a meeting of the national security council to address the issue.\n\nThese protests came before the presidential elections on 23 October. Far-right Ataka party leader Volen Siderov tried to capitalise on the tensions and called for the death penalty to be reinstated and for Romani \"ghettos\" to be dismantled.\nThe United Nations and the OSCE condemned the demonstrations and the violence.\n\nReuters attributed the protests and civil disturbances to the lack of effective justice system in the country. Russian media emphasized the ethnic nature of the societal polarizations, expressing the belief that the Roma are indirectly benefiting due to a positive discrimination on the part of law enforcement agents.\n"}
{"id": "37154230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37154230", "title": "A Smuggler's Bible", "text": "A Smuggler's Bible\n\nA Smuggler's Bible is Joseph McElroy's first novel. David Brooke—who talks of himself in a split-personality manner—narrates a framing tale that consists of him \"smuggling\" his essence into eight autobiographical manuscripts, although their connection with Brooke is not always clear. Brooke seems to deteriorate, while his fictions become more real.\n\nIn ordinary English, a \"smuggler's bible\" refers to a book with a cutout in the body of the pages, suitable for hiding small items when the covers are closed.\n\nThe novel consists of a frame story (summarized here indented), intercut with eight chapters that are the eight manuscripts mentioned in the frame story.\n\n\"the principal parts of david brooke\"\n\nForty-two-year-old Peter St. John runs an antiquarian bookstore in Brooklyn Heights. His father Hugh lives in London, his wife Sally and daughter Joan are staying in Maine for the summer. His friend David Brooke, aged 28, living in his parents' house, sometimes hangs around the store. He sometimes steals books, with St. John's knowledge.\n\nWalter Roy, a boy, has been stalking St. John from a distance. After a few times, St. John confronts Walt, and learns that, from a distance, Walt had thought St. John resembled Walt's father, William, who had been a 41-year-old stockbroker when he died the previous April. St. John ends up wanting to be fatherly to Walt, and give him a gift of an atlas, but Walt rebels against the idea and the gift.\n\n\"the blue address book\"\n\nThis manuscript consists of first person accounts by Mary Clovis, James Judah Lafayette, Abby Love, and Alonzo Morganstern, all residents on the same floor of the Kodak Hotel, now a boarding house. They share the floor with David Brooke, and one Luke Pennitt. There is also an account from Terri, the maid. Theodore Selbstein is their landlord.\n\nFrom Mrs. Clovis we learn that Pennitt has a coin collection, is very secretive, and does not want maid service, that Morganstern is a Communist, that Pennitt and Morganstern constantly argue, that Brooke has gone from quiet to noisy under Morganstern's influence, and that Pennitt is behind in his rent.\n\nLafayette (originally Lamentoff) overhears Brooke talking with some girl. She's interested in him, but he's worried about Pennitt and his coins. She's also behind in her rent, and Brooke is willing to pay it.\n\nTerri would like to marry one Franklin Benjamin, who, it turns out, knows Brooke and questions Terri about him. Selbstein has her check Pennitt's room for anything interesting. Eventually she finds an odd machine in his closet, with screw-rods and other things she can't figure out, but her description satisfies Selbstein's curiosity.\n\nThe girl with Brooke turns out to be Abby Love. She describes in great detail Brooke's conversations with Pennitt on coins. She has a big fight with Brooke, writes him an IOU for back rent, and leaves him for at least a day.\n\nMorganstern lies to Brooke about being a former pro boxer. He admits to having to move around a lot. Selbstein tells him that Pennitt is being evicted for nonpayment and that Love has never missed a rent check.\n\nThat chapter ends with a section of pure dialogue, as Selbstein is evicting Pennitt. It turns out that Pennitt's coin collection was manufactured by Pennitt using the odd machine in his closet.\n\n\"blind john jones and the ice-cream sculpture\"\n\nDavid's mother Julia, 60, is reading a cablegram telling of the time of arrival that afternoon of her seven-week-old granddaughter Julie at Idlewild, giving time but not the flight, while her daughter Ann and son-in-law Dan stay in London sightseeing, headed to Israel. Her husband, Halsey, 65, is in Chicago, and will be taking a train back to New York. David himself, now 31, is in New Hampshire, having moved there eighteen months previously.\n\nThat night Julia gives a dinner, with guests Bobby Prynne, a friend of David, headed for a divorce and sweet on Julia in a way she finds creepy, friends Quincey and Sarah Fearon, and after they leave, her distant younger cousin Josie Wrenn shows up.\n\nThe next morning, Julia meets Halsey at Penn Station, much to his surprise.\n\n\"reflex therapy, or what bruder didn't say\"\n\nMichael Amerchrome narrates in first person about himself, his \"famous historian\" father Duke, 54, and his stepmother, Mary, 35, Duke's third wife. Michael presumes the second wife was his mother, of whom he has no memories. Duke's past includes an eclectic list of job titles, but Michael admits he knows nothing beyond the titles. As an example, he mentions Duke's work acting in and directing a documentary, but which Duke does not let Michael see. The family frequently moves.\n\nDuke is currently in his second year as a professor at a young New Hampshire university.\n\n\"suicide in a camel's hair coat\"\n\n\"the canal street hypnotist\"\n\n\"the black box\"\n\n\"integration and the man upstairs\"\n\nMcElroy explicitly acknowledged the influence of William Gaddis \"The Recognitions\" in an interview, and also in his \"Neural Neighborhoods\" essay, where McElroy states he was already well into his own novel when he read the Gaddis novel.\n\nOne McElroy passage makes a rather direct allusion:\n\nwhich is closely similar to a passage in \"The Recognitions\":\nProfessor Duke Amerchrome is an academic fraud, an addition to the catalog of quacks, counterfeiters, and art forgers in the Gaddis novel.\n\nMoreover, Reverend Gwyon hides his liquor in a smuggler's bible (although Gaddis does not use that term).\n"}
{"id": "49432869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49432869", "title": "Abraccine Top 100 Brazilian films", "text": "Abraccine Top 100 Brazilian films\n\nIn 2015, the Brazilian Film Critics Association (Abraccine) published a list with the 100 best Brazilian films ever according to the votes of its members. This poll was the basis for a book named \"The 100 Greatest Brazilian Films\", published in 2016. Cinema Novo director Glauber Rocha is the director with the most films in the list: five; followed by Rogério Sganzerla, Joaquim Pedro de Andrade, Nelson Pereira dos Santos, Hector Babenco and Carlos Reichenbach, each with four films.\n\n"}
{"id": "20884211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20884211", "title": "Al-Asadi v. Bush", "text": "Al-Asadi v. Bush\n\nAl-Asadi v. Bush (Civil Action No. 05-cv-2197) is a writ of habeas corpus filed on behalf of Guantanamo detainee Mohammed Ahmed Ali Al Asadi before US District Court Judge Henry H. Kennedy. It was one of over 200 habeas corpus petitions filed on behalf of detainees held in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba. \n\nThe Military Commissions Act of 2006 mandated that Guantanamo captives were no longer entitled to access the US civil justice system, so all outstanding habeas corpus petitions were stayed.\n\nKennedy's ruling, lifting a stay imposed upon habeas petitions in 2005, pending the resolution of Boumediene v. Bush, was cited in several other habeas petitions.\n\nOn June 12, 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled, in Boumediene v. Bush, that the Military Commissions Act could not remove the right for Guantanamo captives to access the US Federal Court system. And all previous Guantanamo captives' habeas petitions were eligible to be re-instated.\nThe judges considering the captives' habeas petitions would be considering whether the evidence used to compile the allegations the men and boys were enemy combatants justified a classification of \"enemy combatant\".\n\nAl Asidi's petition was renewed, as a former captive seeking relief for his former detention.\nOn July 3, 2008, US District Court Judge Thomas F. Hogan issued an order regarding former Guantanamo captives, who might seek relief for their former detentions.\nThat order gave their attorneys until July 14 to respond with a brief status report, if they wanted to continue to proceed.\nAl Asadi's habeas petition was one of those on Justice Hogan's list.\n\nOn July 9, 2008, Zachary Katznelson filed a statement summarizing the status of this petition, and several others.\n\nOn July 14, 2008, Andrew I. Warden, a department of Justice official, submitted a motion requesting this and other petitions be dismissed.\n"}
{"id": "25575294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25575294", "title": "American Museum Novitates", "text": "American Museum Novitates\n\nAmerican Museum Novitates is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by the American Museum of Natural History. It was established in 1921. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2013 impact factor of 1.636.\n"}
{"id": "12235377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12235377", "title": "Antikensammlung Berlin", "text": "Antikensammlung Berlin\n\nThe Antikensammlung Berlin (Berlin antiquities collection) is one of the most important collections of classical art in the world, now held in the Altes Museum and Pergamon Museum in Berlin, Germany. It contains thousands of ancient archaeological artefacts from the ancient Greek, Roman, Etruscan and Cypriot civilizations. Its main attraction is the Pergamon Altar and Greek and Roman architectural elements from Priene, Magnesia, Baalbek and Falerii. In addition, the collection includes a large number of ancient sculptures, vases, terracottas, bronzes, sarcophagi, engraved gems and metalwork.\n\nThe collection's foundations were laid in the time of the Brandenburg Elector Friedrich Wilhelm I by ancient sculptures looted in 1656 from the \"Villa Regia\" Palace in Warsaw. The obtained sculptures were purchased in Italy by Polish kings Sigismund III Vasa and Władysław IV Vasa. This core of the collection, originally housed at the Berlin City Castle, was enlarged through acquisitions, including the acquisition of the collection of Gerrit Reynst in 1671. Acquisitions continued in 1698 when Friedrich III bought the important collection belonging to the Roman archaeologist Giovanni Pietro Bellori. After a longer interval, in which Friedrich Wilhelm I exchanged, among other things, 36 valuable statues for two dragoon regiments with Augustus II the Strong, followed in 1742 by Friedrich II's purchase of the collection of cardinal Melchior de Polignac, which included the well-known figure of the \"girl playing a game of knucklebones\". He acquired in 1747 the already famous bronze statue of the so-called \"praying boy\", which was set up on the terrace of the Schloss Sanssouci until 1786. the collection was significantly expanded in 1758 through the inheritance of the Markgräfin von Ansbach-Bayreuth's collection, which included the \"Nile mosaic\" from Praeneste, and in 1764 through the purchase of Philipp von Stosch's antique gem collection.\n\nThe majority of the antiquities were scattered among the royal castles in the 1770s, or shown in a specially built ancient temple in Potsdam where they were not accessible to the public. 1797 saw the first thoughts of public access, with the plan to erect a public museum in Berlin to show off the most important pieces in the royal collections, among other things. A commission under the direction of Wilhelm von Humboldt was appointed to select the exhibits. At the same time as this new museum was coming into existence, further important purchases were made, for example in 1827 the collection of bronzes and vases belonging to the consul-general Bartholdy and in 1828 the collection of 1348 antique vases belonging to the general Franz Freiherr von Koller.\n\nThe collection found its first home in the Karl Friedrich Schinkel's 1830 building (now the Altes Museum) in the Lustgarten next to the Stadtschloss. The collection was predominantly Greek and Roman in the beginning, though it also included some medieval and modern sculptures. In the course of the 19th century, many further purchases were made, including in 1831 the Dorow-Magnus collection of 442 vases. The vase collection was expanded significantly in the following years by the bequest of the archaeologist Eduard Gerhard's collection and became one of the best in the world.\n\nThe building's central room was the Rotunda, one of the earliest examples of purpose-built museum architecture, in which was exhibited the first display of sculptures, as chosen by von Humboldt's commission. Off it extended two halls, one of classical gods, the other of classical heroes, to which were joined two rooms with statues of Roman emperors, portraits, sarcophagi, cinerary urns and reliefs. Small objects were initially housed in the Antiquarium room.\n\nThe new museum's first director was the sculptor Christian Friedrich Tieck, and its first archeological curator (from 1833 to 1855) Eduard Gerhard. Even at this stage - thanks to Gerhard - the focus was not merely on displaying works of art, but also on scientific research and development, then a novelty in museums. A sign of this scientific approach was the beginnings of a systematic catalogue (with drawings) of the museum's ancient artworks from Italy and Greece. This collection of drawings grew fast and its 2500 leaves are used by researchers even in the present day.\n\nDuring his term of office, Gerhard did not restrict himself to acquiring 'star objects', but instead tried to look at the whole breadth of the collection and to expand it in a variety of areas. In order to produce a complete overview of ancient art-history, he also went against opposition to casts and encouraged their acquisition by the collection instead of expensive original statues. The cast collection - in existence since 1796 at Berlin's Prussian Academy of Arts - was connected to the museum in 1842. In the following decades, the collection expanded to become one of the largest of its type. The combination of originals and copies in time came to support the Museum's encouragement of research and scholarship.\n\nThe old museum-building soon became too small for the collection and a further building, the \"Neues Museum\" (New Museum), was built by Friedrich August Stüler between 1843 and 1855 to the north of the original building. In this new building, ideas of arranging the archeological collections into a full chronological and conceptual timeline began to become reality. In the lower floor of the museum the Egyptian collection (which had already existed for some years but not been accessible to the public) was put on show, whilst on the upper floor, the cast collection was set up according to designs by Stüler. The rooms' decor and wall paintings were designed specifically to fit the relevant subject or epoch. This new layout, however, did not last long, as in 1879 the vases collection was moved out of the Antiquarium into the new building.\n\nEven though the vase collection had outgrown the storage capacity of the old building, the available space was still not enough, so in 1883 it was decided to separate off the post-ancient sculptures into their own collection, to be housed in the Kaiser-Friedrich-Museum (now known as the Bode Museum, or the Skulpturensammlung und Museum für Byzantinische Kunst i.e. the Sculpture Collection and Museum for Byzantine Art) that was already in the planning stages. Yet the 1884 purchase of the collection of Peter Alexandrovich Saburov again caused an acute shortage of space.\n\nTo expand of the collection, the museum had since 1875 carried out its own excavations around the Mediterranean, starting with the ruins of Olympia. In 1878 Carl Humann and Alexander Conze began excavations in Pergamon, which brought the Museum its most famous object, the Pergamon Altar. Further excavations followed in Priene, Magnesia, Miletus and Baalbek, but these excavations entailed new problems.\n\nThe collection was enriched in the early 20th century by acquisitions as well as by excavations, such as that of smaller objects belonging to Friedrich L. von Gans in 1912, the glass collection purchased in 1913 from M. von Rath, the \"Thronende Göttin\" (Throne of the Gods) in 1916, the statue of a woman holding an apple in 1925, and a collection of mummy portraits from the Fayum in 1929.\n\nFor the presentation of all these pieces of ancient architecture, another new museum building was required. Between 1897 and 1899, the architect Fritz Wolff created the first Pergamon Museum. It was opened 1901 and in its light well was displayed the Pergamon altar and other architectural examples. Yet problems with the foundations soon led to its closure and demolition closed and dismantled. Wilhelm von Bode in 1907 planned a new building, begun in 1912, but World War I and the Wall Street Crash caused building work to come repeatedly to a standstill. In 1930, at the collection's centenary, a new museum (named the Pergamonmuseum from 1958) could be delivered finally at the public, designed by Alfred Messel and built by Ludwig Hoffmann. The three existing middle halls were reserved for ancient art.\n\nThe old left wing became the Deutsche Museum, to relieve severe space problems at the Kaiser-Friedrich-Museum. The right wing was reserved for the Near East collection and the museum of Islamic art. The three middle halls - after large extensions were added - were able to present ancient architecture to its full height, with innovative use of natural light. There was no discussion as to the form of this presentation, leading to some embittered disputes that became known as the \"Berliner Museumskrieg\" (\"Berlin museum war\"). Through connections between the three archaeological museums, from 1930 until the museums' closure on the outbreak of war in 1939 visitors were able to undertake a tour through the early high cultures of ancient Egypt, the ancient Near East and the antique world for the next nine years.\n\nIn 1941, safeguarding the objects with sandbags and other measures began. What could be moved was largely taken to the Flaktürme at the Berlin Zoo and at Friedrichshain, and in the vaults of the Berlin Mint. With the bombing becoming worse, these places (especially the Flak-towers) seemed unsuitable, and on 10 March 1945 it was decided to move the artworks to mines west of Berlin. After about ten convoys had started to move the collections there, however, it became too dangerous to do so, and this was postponed to the first week of April. So a large part of the small art and the supply of the magazines of the antique collection was instead taken to the Grasleben mines and to Kaiserroda in Thuringia. In the course of the war, the Altes Museum and the Neue Museum were destroyed, and the Museumsneubau and some of the exhibits were damaged. In spite of the concern over their safety, the art treasures in the Flaktürmen were hardly damaged during the Battle of Berlin.\n\nThe worst, however, came after the end of the battle, with the guards everywhere deserting their posts and leaving all the stores to be plundered by both Germans and Russians. In two fires in the Flakturm Friedrichshain in May 1945 a large part of the art treasures stored there was probably destroyed including several antiquities. Others were confiscated by the Red Army and taken back to Moscow and Leningrad as \"spoils of war\", and have still not been returned. How much was taken in this way is still unknown; 25 Greek vases that can be shown to belong to the Berlin collection were shown in 2005 at an exhibition entitled \"Archaeology of the War\" in the Pushkin Museum in Moscow. Further vases were discovered in the Muscovite Historic Museum. Several vases, that were loaned in 1903 to the Provincial-Museum at Poznań (13 of the 19 vases are demonstrably from the Berlin collection), and several portrait busts that were loaned from 1908 to the Schloss there, were subsumed by Poland in 1945 into the Muzeum Narodowe in Poznań, where they are still held today.\n\nHow great the losses were over the whole collection could first be investigated and documented after the reunification of the collection, with the first catalogue of losses appearing in 2005. This catalogue named five large bronze statues (including the \"Calvatone Victory\"), approximately 300 marble and stone statues, more than 40 reliefs, more than 20 stone architectural elements, approximately 30 stone vases, more than 1500 vases and vase-fragments (including pieces by the Amasis Painter, Berlin Painter, Brygos Painter, Edinburgh Painter, Exekias, Geras Painter and Pan Painter), 100 pieces of gold jewellery and more than 150 engraved gems.\n\nIn 1958 the USSR returned much of this war booty to the GDR, but with both the Altes and Neue Museum destroyed a new home was acutely needed for the collections on the Museums Island. The three middle halls of the Pergamon Museum once again housed architectural exhibits, and the central hall again housed the Pergamon Altar. In the right-hand Room was housed Roman architecture, and in the right Wing itself the Near East Museum on the first floor and the Islamic Art museum on the upper floor (as it had been before 1939). In the left hall was housed Greek architecture, with ancient sculptures (formerly in the Altes Museum) in the left wing, and for a short time ancient coins were displayed in the . On the upper floor were Roman portraits, Etruscan art and choice pieces from the collection of small-objects. There was no room, however, for the art of ancient Cyprus until the Altes Museum was rebuilt and these objects had to remain in store\n\nA new entrance was formed in 1982, that led now directly into the middle hall and, from there, to the Pergamon Altar. In 1983-84 the ancient sculptures were redisplayed, this time in a chronological sequence, beginning with archaic Greek art, through classical originals, Hellenistic sculptures and Roman copies of classical originals, and ending with Roman art.\n\nKept out of the international art market, the collection was restricted to maintaining and presenting the existing collection on the Museum Island. Only in a few cases could the collection be enriched by new acquisitions, such as an outstanding Greek marble relief of two horsemen and seven precious vases from private owners.\n\nAlso in 1958 the objects that had been evacuated to Thuringia during the war (then moved by the Americans to Celle in West Germany) were returned to Berlin. Though a repatriation to the Museum Island was out of the question, other homes were found for the objects. In 1961 the antiquities (already on public display from 1960 in Stüler's barrack buildings at the Schloss at Charlottenburg) were placed in the charge of the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation. The objects displayed were the core of the collection of small artworks (including the well-known bronze statue of the \"Cretan ram-carrier\"), most of the former vase collection, the ancient gold jewellery collection (including the Hildesheim silver hoard), parts of the glass collection, the existing mummy portrait collections (with the addition of one of the few surviving ancient panel paintings, the Severus Tondo), and the collection of ancient helmets from Lipperheide. The display of antiquities, including the arrangement of the treasure chamber in the first floor of the Stüler building, was expanded in 1976. In 1987 the first floor became home to the vases from Magna Graecia, upon which the arrangement of the antiquities collection was complete and extensive.\n\nIn contrast to its East Berlin counterpart, the collection had access to the international art market, and was able to make its first postwar acquisition in 1958, the \"torso of a falling wounded man\". Up until reunification, as well as the existing material on the museum island, more than 600 new works of art were acquired by purchases and donation. These included numerous ancient vases (among others, the Altamura Painter, Berlin Painter, Brygos Painter, Chiusi Painter, KY Painter, Myson, Pan Painter, Paseas, Pistoxenos Painter, Smikros and the Triptolemos Painter), numerous marble busts (including a portrait bust of Cleopatra VII), sculptures (including a feminine idol of the Cycladic culture) and sarcophagus (among others, a large sarcophagus of a Roman general well known since the 16th century). Along with these single acquisitions, some larger complexes also came into the possession of the Museum. In 1976 an ancient coin from Heinrich Amersdorffer's collection, gold jewellery from Tarentum in 1980, a vase collection from a grave in Tarentum in 1984 (including ones by the Armidale Painter, the Dareios Painter, the painter of Copenhagen 4223, the Loebbecke Painter, the Lucera Painter, the Underworld Painter and the Varrese Painter) and the contents of a late Roman grave in Cologne in 1986.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32716108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32716108", "title": "Baltimore City Archives", "text": "Baltimore City Archives\n\nThe Baltimore City Archives is the official municipal archive of the City of Baltimore, Maryland. The archive is located on Mathews Street in the Better Waverly, Baltimore neighborhood. The Baltimore City Archives \"is the central depository for government records of permanent value.\"\n\nBefore the incorporating charter of Baltimore stipulated the care of records in 1796, the clerk of Baltimore’s Special Commissioners had been ordered to keep records of the town in a chest for safekeeping. The first Record Office of Baltimore was completed in 1839, built to house the growing number of municipal records needing safekeeping. In 1839, the city librarian’s office was created, and the librarians and assistants that followed worked to create order out of the multiplying records. Arguments of cronyism in the city librarian’s office resulted in the creation of the Bureau of Archives within the Department of Legislative Reference in 1927.\n\nDuring the late 1930s, the Works Progress Administration (WPA) assigned workers from the Historical Records Survey (HRS) to the Baltimore City Archives, the outcome being twelve hundred detailed worksheets and a completed index of the records of the Archives. Despite this work, the archives fell into disrepair until the 1970s, when a renewed interest in Baltimore’s history was the impetus for the creation of the position of City Archivist. After several years of work, which resulted in a guide to the holdings of the Archive in relation to the WPA-HRS index, the archives again fell into disrepair, housed in a substandard building with environmental.\n\nThe Baltimore City Archives has been receiving more support from city government, enabling it to move to a new location. The Archives came under the auspices of the Maryland State Archives in 2009 through a five-year agreement whereby the State Archives receive additional storage space in exchange for preservation services. They have received an NHPRC Grant, and work has since commenced to create more access to the holdings, including more detailed descriptions in their online guide and the addition of Web 2.0 tools such as Flickr.\n\nThe Archives holds collections from city offices such as the Mayor of Baltimore, Baltimore City Council, and the Department of Housing as well as collections of national historic interest such as the War of 1812 papers. Recent acquisitions include the Provident Hospital (Baltimore) and the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra.\n\nDr. Robert Schoeberlein is the current Acting City Archivist. Up until his retirement in 2013, Edward C. Papenfuse, the Maryland State Archivist, also served as the Acting City Archivist. Previous City Archivists have included Richard J. Cox, William LeFurgy, Thomas Hollowack, and Rebecca Gunby.\n\n"}
{"id": "1980870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1980870", "title": "Benchmark (computing)", "text": "Benchmark (computing)\n\nIn computing, a benchmark is the act of running a computer program, a set of programs, or other operations, in order to assess the relative performance of an object, normally by running a number of standard tests and trials against it.\nThe term \"benchmark\" is also commonly utilized for the purposes of elaborately designed benchmarking programs themselves.\n\nBenchmarking is usually associated with assessing performance characteristics of computer hardware, for example, the floating point operation performance of a CPU, but there are circumstances when the technique is also applicable to software. Software benchmarks are, for example, run against compilers or database management systems (DBMS).\n\nBenchmarks provide a method of comparing the performance of various subsystems across different chip/system architectures.\n\nTest suites are a type of system intended to assess the correctness of software.\n\nAs computer architecture advanced, it became more difficult to compare the performance of various computer systems simply by looking at their specifications. Therefore, tests were developed that allowed comparison of different architectures. For example, Pentium 4 processors generally operated at a higher clock frequency than Athlon XP or PowerPC processors, which did not necessarily translate to more computational power; a processor with a slower clock frequency might perform as well as or even better than a processor operating at a higher frequency. See BogoMips and the megahertz myth.\n\nBenchmarks are designed to mimic a particular type of workload on a component or system. Synthetic benchmarks do this by specially created programs that impose the workload on the component. Application benchmarks run real-world programs on the system. While application benchmarks usually give a much better measure of real-world performance on a given system, synthetic benchmarks are useful for testing individual components, like a hard disk or networking device.\n\nBenchmarks are particularly important in CPU design, giving processor architects the ability to measure and make tradeoffs in microarchitectural decisions. For example, if a benchmark extracts the key algorithms of an application, it will contain the performance-sensitive aspects of that application. Running this much smaller snippet on a cycle-accurate simulator can give clues on how to improve performance.\n\nPrior to 2000, computer and microprocessor architects used SPEC to do this, although SPEC's Unix-based benchmarks were quite lengthy and thus unwieldy to use intact.\n\nComputer manufacturers are known to configure their systems to give unrealistically high performance on benchmark tests that are not replicated in real usage. For instance, during the 1980s some compilers could detect a specific mathematical operation used in a well-known floating-point benchmark and replace the operation with a faster mathematically equivalent operation. However, such a transformation was rarely useful outside the benchmark until the mid-1990s, when RISC and VLIW architectures emphasized the importance of compiler technology as it related to performance. Benchmarks are now regularly used by compiler companies to improve not only their own benchmark scores, but real application performance.\n\nCPUs that have many execution units — such as a superscalar CPU, a VLIW CPU, or a reconfigurable computing CPU — typically have slower clock rates than a sequential CPU with one or two execution units when built from transistors that are just as fast. Nevertheless, CPUs with many execution units often complete real-world and benchmark tasks in less time than the supposedly faster high-clock-rate CPU.\n\nGiven the large number of benchmarks available, a manufacturer can usually find at least one benchmark that shows its system will outperform another system; the other systems can be shown to excel with a different benchmark.\n\nManufacturers commonly report only those benchmarks (or aspects of benchmarks) that show their products in the best light. They also have been known to mis-represent the significance of benchmarks, again to show their products in the best possible light. Taken together, these practices are called \"bench-marketing.\"\n\nIdeally benchmarks should only substitute for real applications if the application is unavailable, or too difficult or costly to port to a specific processor or computer system. If performance is critical, the only benchmark that matters is the target environment's application suite.\n\nBenchmarking is not easy and often involves several iterative rounds in order to arrive at predictable, useful conclusions. Interpretation of benchmarking data is also extraordinarily difficult. Here is a partial list of common challenges:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32443858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32443858", "title": "Bodleian-Douce Atlas", "text": "Bodleian-Douce Atlas\n\nThe Bodleian-Douce Atlas is an early 15th-century nautical atlas by an anonymous Italian cartographer, currently held (MS Douce 390) by the Bodleian Library in Oxford, UK.\n\nThe atlas was made by an anonymous Italian cartographer in the early 15th century. No attribution to known cartographers or place of origin. Venice and Genoa have been suggested. The Bodleian-Douce Atlas is currently held (Ms. Douce 390) by the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford in Oxford, UK.\n\nThe Bodleian-Douce atlas is composed of six portolan charts, with each chart covering two folios: \n\n"}
{"id": "16598458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16598458", "title": "Broad Ripple Park Carousel", "text": "Broad Ripple Park Carousel\n\nBroad Ripple Park Carousel is an antique carousel in The Children's Museum of Indianapolis. It was installed in 1917 at an amusement park near the White River in Indianapolis, Indiana, where it remained until the building housing it collapsed in 1956. The ride's mechanism was destroyed, but the animals were relatively unscathed and put into storage by the park's owners, the Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation. The animals were carved by the Dentzel Carousel Company some time before 1900 but were assembled by the William F. Mangels carousel company, which also supplied the engine powering the ride.\n\nThe Children's Museum of Indianapolis acquired its first two carved animals from the ride in 1965, and the last few wooden animals in 1973. The museum planned to sell some to finance the restoration of others until the director of the museum, Mildred Compton, was convinced by carousel enthusiasts that the museum should instead restore all the animals and recreate the working carousel. Restoration of the carved animals began in 1966 and was only finished with the restoration of the entire carousel in 1977. No space had been allocated for the display of such a large exhibit in the museum's planned new building, which meant some re-designing was necessary to allow its installation on the fifth floor. A 1919 Wurlitzer band organ model #146-B, a type manufactured only for carousels, was also installed. As restored, the carousel is wide and has a total of 42 animals, including – as well as the usual horses – goats, giraffes, deer, a lion, and a tiger. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1987.\n\nThe Broad Ripple Park Carousel was installed in 1917 in an amusement park on the outskirts of Indianapolis, Indiana. The White City Amusement Park had been established in 1906 in what is now Broad Ripple Village, alongside the White River. In 1908 a fire caused damage throughout the park, and only the swimming pool remained unscathed. The park closed for three years until its purchase by the Union Traction Company, which restored it and operated it for eleven years. The carousel was installed during the Union Traction Company's ownership. The park was sold in May 1922 to the new Broad Ripple Amusement Park Association, and renamed Broad Ripple Park. In 1927 the park was sold again, and changed hands once more in 1938. The Board of Parks Commission of Indianapolis bought the property on May 18, 1945, paying $131,500 (approximately $ as of 2018) for the tract, and turned the property into a general-use park, destroying all rides it could not sell. The board's original plan was to sell the carousel and the narrow-gauge railway rides. Only the carousel remained in Indianapolis after it was unsold; the steam locomotive is now at the Indiana Transportation Museum at Noblesville, Indiana.\n\nThe carousel was commissioned by William Hubbs, who had it installed in White City Amusement Park in 1917. Built on a Mangel-Illions mechanism, it used animals carved by the Dentzel carousel company of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, sometime before 1900. The carousel was assembled by the William F. Mangels carousel company in 1917. It was probably not the first carousel in the park, as there are indications of a previous ride that came from Hartford, Connecticut.\n\nNothing is known of the history of the animals before their installation in the 1917 carousel assembly. During the 1960s newspaper reports stated that it was believed that the animals had arrived in Indianapolis in 1917, imported from Germany by two brothers named Mangels, but later research revealed the animals were manufactured by the Dentzel carousel company. Also included in the installation were oil paintings on the canopy over the animals and mechanism.\n\nPart of the installation appears to have involved the retrofitting of some animals to fit the Mangels mechanism. During this process some of the animals, which were carved in stationary or standing positions and thus not meant to be \"jumpers\" (animals that moved up and down), were modified to allow them to move.\n\nBetween 1917 and 1938 the carousel was located near the White City park pool, in an enclosed building with numerous large windows. In 1938, after the park was purchased by William McCurry, the ride was enclosed within an unwalled pavilion with a domed roof and moved to the area of the park set aside as a children's playground. The carousel was operated as a concession, which one operator, William Hubbs, held for almost 10 years.\n\nThe park district does not appear to have moved the carousel after taking over in 1945, as a 1955 newspaper article noted it was still in the same spot it had occupied for 38 years. The carousel was again operated as a concession within the park, this time by the wife of Everett DuBois, the park superintendent. Like Hubbs, Mrs. DuBois operated the carousel for almost 10 years. Although the district did not change the ride's location, it noted in 1955 that the equipment was showing its age. In 1955 the park district attempted to paint over the oil paintings on the canopy, which had deteriorated. The Indianapolis Art League objected, and volunteered to restore the original paintings rather than have them painted over with Disney characters.\n\nThe domed pavilion housing the mechanism collapsed in 1956, destroying the mechanism and the sweeps that supported the animals. The park district disposed of the destroyed mechanical parts and stored the animals. In 1961 the giraffes, along with other animals from the carousel, were used in a Christmas display at University Park in Indianapolis. During this time, discussions began between the park district and the Indianapolis Zoological Society about the possibility of the Zoological Society acquiring the animals for use in its children's zoo section. In April 1962 newspaper reports stated that the animals were to be donated to the zoo, for installation in the main zoo; the zoo planned to purchase a smaller merry-go-round for the children's zoo. The animals were apparently still being offered to the zoo in December 1963, as a newspaper story announced that the park district had just given the zoo authorization to use the carousel parts, and volunteers were being sought to restore the animals. The president of the Zoological Society described the animals as \"bigger and more realistically colored, and more intricately detailed, sturdier, and they have more different kinds of animals than that aluminum junk they throw out today\".\n\nIn 1965 The Children's Museum of Indianapolis, then located in a building at 30th and Meridian Streets, acquired two horses from the carousel. Mildred Compton, the museum director, had seen the carousel in Broad Ripple Park before 1952, and hoped to secure the surviving animals, but the park district was initially unwilling to part with more than two, as the district was using five or six animals in the annual Christmas displays at Monument Circle. During the first half of 1966, the two horses were refinished by a museum volunteer. Both were stripped of old paint, one was repainted, and the other was refinished with lemon oil to feature the carvings on the animal. Compton obtained real horse tails from an Indianapolis slaughterhouse to replace the lost originals. By September 1966 the two horses were ready for display in the museum's front entrance.\n\nThe park district allowed the museum to use one of the surviving giraffes in a booth at a fall festival held at the Indianapolis Museum of Art in 1968. The museum subsequently acquired most of the remaining animals in 1969, after a search through the storage building containing the animals. The animals and parts of animals had to be searched for in corners and under boxes in the park district storage building. Besides a large number of horses, 2 more giraffes, a lion, and a tiger were found. Photographs of the animals were sent to Frederic Fried, an expert in carousels, who confirmed that the animals were made in the United States, not Germany, probably before 1900. He also confirmed that they were carved by the Dentzel company.\n\nThe museum intended to keep a few of the animals and sell the others to finance its operations, but Mildred Compton returned from a visit to the 1973 National Carousel Roundtable convinced that it should instead restore all of them and recreate the working carousel in its planned new building. But no space had been allocated to allow the display of such a large exhibit, requiring the plans to be adjusted. Columns required in the original layout were removed to allow the carousel's installation on the fifth floor.\n\nWhile plans were under way to secure funding for the restoration of the carousel, efforts were made to find some missing animals. By studying old photographs of the carousel, it was determined there had been three deer or stags which had not been found in the park district storage building. No one at the park district knew of their whereabouts, and some employees believed the animals had disintegrated. As well as the missing deer, two horses were missing. The museum contacted local newspapers, which published stories on the efforts to restore the carousel. The reports mentioned the missing animals, and that the museum was trying to locate them. An anonymous tip received in December 1973 revealed the deer were used in the annual Christmas Gift and Hobby Show, where they served as escorts for Santa Claus. Compton was able to secure the animals from the park district for the museum.\n\nThe mechanical parts were assembled in the fifth-floor area in November 1975, using a non-original Mangel-Illions mechanism. A Wurlitzer carousel organ, which had belonged to an amusement park in San Francisco, was added. Before it was installed in the Children's Museum, the organ was refurbished and rebuilt by Carval Stoots of Plainfield, Indiana, in 1976.\n\nAn artist from Pennsylvania recreated the upper outside panels in the style of the carousels of the period around the time of World War I. The carvings on the panels were provided by Allen and Rita Orre of Ohio and the International Amusement Devices Company of Ohio; the mirrors were produced by an Indianapolis glass firm. The scenery panels were initially some discovered Dentzel company panels, and these were used in 1976 and 1977 while replica Mangels-Illions-style panels were built in the museum's shops.\n\nThe animals were restored between 1975 and 1977 by Bill and Caroline Von Stein of Cincinnati, Ohio. The Von Steins were experienced with other types of museum conservation work, but had never restored carousel animals. Because of the animals' poor condition, no attempt was made to restore them to their original paintwork; instead, the restorers were allowed to use their judgment on color choices and other decorations. The museum's only requirements were that they use reasonably natural decorative schemes and no high-gloss paint.\n\nThe original engine propelling the carousel was a belt-driven mechanism, but after the initial restoration it was exchanged for a fluid drive provided by the Kissell Brothers Amusement Rides company of Cincinnati, Ohio, who suggested the platform for the carousel be improved. To provide crowd control, a pavilion was built over the carousel and a ticket booth was installed. Neither was based on any extant buildings, but each was a composite of several other structures. The animals are removed one at a time from the carousel for routine maintenance and refurbishment, which is carried out in the museum's own shops.\n\nThe carousel was designated a National Historic Landmark on February 27, 1987, and the National Historic Landmarks Program assessed its condition as \"satisfactory\" in 2008. The carousel is one of the largest displayed artifacts in the museum, and is available to be ridden by visitors.\n\nThe carousel features a QR code as part of the museum's involvement in the QRpedia project. Visitors may scan the code with a suitable mobile device and will be served the Wikipedia article about it, in whatever language their device is set to use, if available.\n\nThe carousel is one of the three oldest surviving Dentzel menagerie carousels. Thirty-one of its 42 wood-carved animals are horses, 17 standing and 14 jumping. There are also three goats, three giraffes, three deer, one lion, and one tiger. The single lion and tiger are typical of Dentzel-created carousels, as are the three giraffes; Gustav Dentzel's love of that animal resulted in all of his carousels including at least one row of giraffes. The animals are arranged in three circles around the central mechanism, alternating leaping or jumping horses with stationary animals. Typical for a Mangels-Illions manufactured carousel, there are 18 jumping animals, all but one of which is original; the horse that could not be found in 1975 was replaced with another Dentzel horse. Although the animals were not originally carved to display jewels, at some point they were so displayed at the amusement park, and thus the museum restored the animals on the outside circle with jewels.\n\nThe mechanism powering the ride is a diameter Mangels-Illions manufactured carousel, but it is uncertain whether this exactly matches the original Mangels-Illions mechanism. The whole assembly has a diameter of . The organ, a 1919 Wurlitzer carousel organ model #146-B, is of a type designed specifically for carousels.\n\n"}
{"id": "498041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498041", "title": "California Academy of Sciences", "text": "California Academy of Sciences\n\nThe California Academy of Sciences is a research institute and natural history museum in San Francisco, California, that is among the largest museums of natural history in the world, housing over 26 million specimens. The Academy began in 1853 as a learned society and still carries out a large amount of original research. It is California's oldest museum.\n\nCompletely rebuilt in 2008, the building covers .\nThe primary building in Golden Gate Park reopened on September 27, 2008.\n\nThe California Academy of Sciences, California's oldest operating museum and research institution for the natural sciences, is governed by a forty-one member Board of Trustees who are nominated and chosen by the California Academy of Sciences Fellows. The Academy Fellows are, in turn, \"[n]ominated by their colleagues and appointed by the Board of Trustees...the Fellows remain members of the Fellowship for life.\" The Board of Trustees are then responsible for appointing the executive management of the Academy, who in turn are responsible for overseeing the Academy's overall operation and the hiring of its other managers and employees.\n\nBesides its world-renowned function as source of public science education through its museum, the California Academy of Sciences also operates the prestigious \"Institute for Biodiversity Science and Sustainability\" (IBSS) as its research arm, contributing some of the world's most important research in the fields of taxonomy, phylogenetics, and biodiversity studies. Although one aspect of the IBSS is available for view by museum patrons at the science \"project lab\" exhibit, most of the research happens in laboratories and facilities \"behind the scenes\" and not observable by the public. In fact, unbeknownst to most patrons, research and administrative facilities occupy nearly 50% of the Academy's physical structure.\n\nPrior to being replaced, the old Academy building attracted approximately half a million visitors each year. As has been the case from the start, the main thrust of the exhibits is natural history. The main venues of the museum include the following:\n\nBesides its famous museum programs, the California Academy of Sciences offers many educational and community outreach programs to members of the public at large.\n\nAcademy scientists, under the Academy's Institute for Biodiversity Science and Sustainability, conduct systematic and conservation research in several different fields, including anthropology, marine biology, botany, entomology, herpetology, ichthyology, invertebrate zoology, mammalogy, ornithology, geology, and paleontology. There also is a strong emphasis on environmental concerns, with all the various departments collaborating closely to focus on systematic biology and biodiversity. Academy researchers study life around the world: a 2011 expedition to the Philippines discovered an estimated 300 species new to science. The Academy publishes the peer-reviewed journal \"Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences\", as well as \"Occasional Papers\", \"Memoirs\", and \"Special Publications\".\n\nThe \"California Academy of Natural Sciences\" was founded in 1853, only three years after California joined the United States, becoming the first society of its kind in the Western US. Its stated aim was to undertake \"a thorough systematic survey of every portion of the State and the collection of a cabinet of her rare and rich productions.\" It was renamed as the more inclusive \"California Academy of Sciences\" in 1868.\n\nThe Academy had a forward-thinking direction to the involvement of women in science, passing a resolution in its first year of existence that the members \"highly approve of the aid of females in every department of natural science, and invite their cooperation.\" This policy led to several women being hired into professional positions as botanists, entomologists, and other occupations during the 19th century, when opportunities for women in the sciences were limited, and often, those that existed were restricted to menial cataloging and calculation work. In 1892, Alice Eastwood, a botanist, was hired by the Academy and worked there until she retired in 1949. She created the collection of rare plants, which was saved when the Academy was destroyed in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake\n\nThe Academy's first official museum opened in 1874 at the corner of California and Dupont Streets (now Grant Avenue) in what is now Chinatown, and drew up to 80,000 visitors a year. To accommodate its increasing popularity, the Academy moved to a new and larger building on Market Street in 1891, funded by the legacy of James Lick, a 19th-century San Francisco real estate mogul, entrepreneur, and philanthropist. \n\nHowever only fifteen years later, the Market Street facility fell victim to the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and three days of fire, which also wiped out all but a wheelbarrow full of the Academy's library and specimen collections. In the widespread destruction occurring in the aftermath of the quake, Academy curators and staffers only were able to retrieve a single cart of materials, including Academy minute books, membership records, and 2,000 type specimens. The 1905-1906 scientific collecting expedition to the Galápagos Islands (the first of several sponsored by the academy to the archipelago) already was underway, and it returned seven months later, providing replacement collections for those lost.\n\nIn 1916, the Academy moved to the North American Hall of Birds and Mammals in Golden Gate Park, the first building on the site that was to become its permanent home. In 1923, the Steinhart Aquarium was added, followed in 1934 by the Simson African Hall.\n\nDuring World War II, the Academy contributed to the American war effort by using its workshop facilities to repair optical and navigational equipment for United States Navy ships; San Francisco was a major port for the Pacific War arena.\n\nThe post-war years saw a flurry of new construction on the site; the Science Hall was added in 1951, followed by the Morrison Planetarium in 1952. The Morrison Planetarium was the seventh major planetarium to open in the United States and featured a one-of-a-kind star projector, built by Academy staff members (in part using the expertise gained doing the optical work for the US Navy during World War II).\n\nThe Academy Projector produced a remarkably natural-looking star field. It projected irregularly shaped stars, rather than the circular stars projected by many optical star projectors. The irregular shapes were created by placing variously sized grains of silicon carbide onto the glass star plates by hand, then aluminizing the plates, and brushing away the silicon carbide grains. \n\nIn 1959, the Malliard Library, Eastwood Hall of Botany, and Livermore Room all were added. Throughout the 1960s, universities concentrating on the new field of molecular biology divested themselves of their traditional specimen collections, entrusting them to the Academy and leading to a rapid growth of the Academy's holdings.\n\nIn 1969, another new building, Cowell Hall, was added to the site. In 1976, several new galleries were opened, and the following year, in 1977, the \"fish roundabout\" was constructed.\n\nPrior to the old building being torn down in 2005, there was a \"Life through Time\" gallery, housing a large display on evolution and paleontology. There was a Gem and Mineral Hall, a section on Earthquakes, and a Gary Larson exhibit.\n\nThe Academy buildings were damaged significantly in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake. Subsequently, the Bird Hall building was closed to ensure public safety. The inadequately engineered Steinhart Aquarium suffered dramatic seismic damage from the 1989 earthquake, as well.\n\nAs plans were made to repair the damage and make the buildings seismically stable, it was realized that a considerable amount of work would be needed to bring the buildings up to modern standards. This led to the idea of giving the Academy a complete overhaul, thus motivating the closing of the main site.\n\nConstruction began on the new $500 million building on September 12, 2005, while the exhibits were moved to 875 Howard Street for a temporary museum.\n\nThe Academy reopened with a free day on September 27, 2008. For most of the day the line for admittance was over a mile (nearly two kilometers) long, and although over 15,000 people were admitted, several thousands more had to be turned away.\n\nThe design architect for the museum replacement project was Renzo Piano. His design was awarded the Urban Land Institute (ULI) Award for Excellence for the Americas region in 2008, as well as the Holcim Award Silver for sustainable construction projects in the North America region in 2005. One critic praised the building as a \"blazingly uncynical embrace of the Enlightenment values of truth and reason\", and a \"comforting reminder of the civilizing function of great art in a barbaric age\".\n\nThe new building is at the forefront of environmentally friendly design, in keeping with the Academy's focus on ecological concerns and environmental sustainability. It received Platinum certification under the LEED program. As a result of its environmentally friendly design and other unique features, this project was featured on the Discovery Channel \"Extreme Engineering\" series in 2006 and on the National Geographic Channel \"Man-Made\" series in July 2008.\n\nThe new building includes an array of environmentally friendly features.\n\nThe California Academy of Science green roof has several environmentally friendly features, as well as sustainable design. Renzo Piano was inspired by seven major hills of San Francisco, which typically refers to: Telegraph Hill, Nob Hill, Russian Hill, Rincon Hill, Mount Sutro, Twin Peaks and Mount Davidson. The living green roof was planted with 1.7 million California native plants. The museum's central piazza lies beneath a massive glass ceiling in the roof, which opens to allow cool night air to flow into the building below; by using this kind of natural ventilation instead of air conditioning to regulate interior temperature, the building becomes more energy efficient. Renzo Piano and SWA Group won the American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA) Award in design in 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "533442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533442", "title": "Courtauld Institute of Art", "text": "Courtauld Institute of Art\n\nThe Courtauld Institute of Art (), commonly referred to as The Courtauld, is a self-governing college of the University of London specialising in the study of the history of art and conservation. It is among the most prestigious institutions in the world for these disciplines and is widely known for the disproportionate number of directors of major museums drawn from its small body of alumni. \n\nThe art collection of the Institute is known particularly for its French Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings and is housed in the Courtauld Gallery. \n\nThe Institute and the Gallery are both in Somerset House, in the Strand in London.\n\nThe Institute was founded in 1932 through the philanthropic efforts of the industrialist and art collector Samuel Courtauld, the diplomat and collector Lord Lee of Fareham, and the art historian Sir Robert Witt. \n\nOriginally the Courtauld Institute was based in Home House, a Robert Adam-designed townhouse in London's Portman Square. The Strand block of Somerset House, designed by William Chambers from 1775–1780, has housed the Courtauld Institute since 1989. The Courtauld celebrated its 75th anniversary during the 2007–08 academic year.\n\nThe Courtauld Institute of Art is the major centre for the study of the history and conservation of art and architecture in the United Kingdom. It offers undergraduate and postgraduate teaching to around 400 students each year. Degrees are awarded by the University of London.\n\nThe Courtauld was ranked first in the United Kingdom for History and History of Art in \"The Guardian\" 's 2011 University Guide and was confirmed in this rank for research quality in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework. The Independent has called it \"probably the most prestigious specialist college for the study of the history of art in the world.\"\n\nThe Courtauld was ranked, again, first in the United Kingdom for History and History of Art in \"The Guardian\"’s 2017 University Guide.\n\nAccording to the 2014 Research Excellence Framework, the Courtauld hosts the highest proportion of the UK's world-leading and internationally excellent research out of all higher education institutions with 95% of research rated in the top two categories (4*/3*), 56% of which was rated in the 4* category, tied for highest in the UK with London Business School.\n\nThe only undergraduate course offered by the Courtauld is a BA in the History of Art. This is a full-time course designed to introduce students to all aspects of the study of western art.\n\nSeveral taught courses are offered at postgraduate level: master's degrees in history of art, curating the art museum, the history of Buddhist art, and the conservation of wall painting are taught alongside diploma courses in the conservation of easel paintings and the history of art. Students in the history of art master's programme have to choose a specialisation ranging from antiquity to early modern to global contemporary artwork. Special options are taught in small class sizes of 5–10 students, allowing an optimal discussion between faculty members and students.\n\nThe Courtauld has two photographic libraries which started as the private collections of two benefactors: the Conway Library, covering architecture, architectural drawings, sculpture and illuminated manuscripts, named after the Lord Conway of Allington and the Witt Library, after Sir Robert Witt, covering paintings, drawings and engravings and containing over two million reproductions of works by over 70,000 artists. In 2009, it was decided that the Witt Library would not continue to add new material to the collection. The book library is one of the UK's largest archives of art history books, periodicals and exhibition catalogues. There is a slide library which also covers films, and an IT suite.\n\nAn online image collection provides access to more than 40,000 images, including paintings and drawings from the Courtauld Gallery, and over 35,000 photographs of architecture and sculpture from the Conway Library. Two other websites and sell high resolution digital files to scholars, publishers and broadcasters, and photographic prints to a wide public audience.\n\nThe Courtauld uses a virtual learning environment to deliver course material to its students. Since 2004, the Courtauld has published an annual research journal, immediations, edited by current members of the research student body. Each cover of the journal has been commissioned by a leading contemporary artist.\n\nThe art collection of the Institute is housed in the Courtauld Gallery. The collection was begun by the founder of the Institute, Samuel Courtauld, who presented an extensive collection of mainly French Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings in 1932. It was enhanced by further gifts in the 1930s and a bequest in 1948, and has since received many significant donations and bequests. The Gallery contains some 530 paintings and over 26,000 drawings and prints.\n\nThe Courtauld Gallery is open to the public. Since 1989 it has been housed in the Strand block of Somerset House, which was the first home of the Royal Academy, founded in 1768. In April 2013 the Head of the Courtauld Gallery was Ernst Vegelin.\n\nThe Courtauld is especially well known for its many graduates who have become directors of art museums around the world. These include the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; the Museum of Modern Art, New York; the National Gallery, London; the National Portrait Gallery, London; the British Museum, London, and the Museo del Prado, Madrid. The number of notable alumni in the fine arts has earned graduates the \"Courtauld Mafia\" nickname. \n\nThe faculty of the Courtauld includes:\n\nThe Directors of the Courtauld Institute have been:\n"}
{"id": "40415365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40415365", "title": "E-mahashabdkosh", "text": "E-mahashabdkosh\n\ne-mahashabdkosh () is an online dictionary website which is hosted and mentioned by Department of Official Language, India. This website is intended for general public use.\n\nE-Mahashabdakosh is an online bilingual-bidirectional Hindi–English pronunciation dictionary. In this dictionary basic meaning, synonyms, word usage and usage of words in special domain are included. This dictionary has the facility of search of Hindi and English words. The purpose of this dictionary is to provide a complete, correct, compact meaning and definition of a word.\n\nDuring the year 2011–12, the work for the development of E-Mahashabdkosh for 12 work areas has been completed. During the year 2011–12, the work has been completed in additional four areas such as education, sports, culture and Railways.\n"}
{"id": "5402399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5402399", "title": "Elbow witch", "text": "Elbow witch\n\nElbow witches are old women with awls in their elbows in the Ojibwa story of Aayaase (also known as \"Aayaash\" or \"Iyash\"), \"Filcher-of-Meat\". Blinded by cooking smoke, the sisters killed each other in their attempts to kill him for their meal.\n\nElbow Witch is Monster in My Pocket #63, one of only three monsters derived from Native American mythology, the others being Wendigo and (to an extent) Bigfoot. The character's awls look very much like tusks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1894412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894412", "title": "Etymological dictionary", "text": "Etymological dictionary\n\nAn etymological dictionary discusses the etymology of the words listed. Often, large dictionaries, such as the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" and \"Webster's\", will contain some etymological information, without aspiring to focus on etymology.\n\nEtymological dictionaries are the product of research in historical linguistics. For a large number of words in any language, the etymology will be uncertain, disputed, or simply unknown. In such cases, depending on the space available, an etymological dictionary will present various suggestions and perhaps make a judgement on their likelihood, and provide references to a full discussion in specialist literature.\n\nThe tradition of compiling \"derivations\" of words is pre-modern, found for example in Indian (\"nirukta\"), Arabic (\"al-ištiqāq\") and also in Western tradition (in works such as the \"Etymologicum Magnum\"). Etymological dictionaries in the modern sense, however, appear only in the late 18th century (with 17th-century predecessors such as Vossius' 1662 \"Etymologicum linguae Latinae\" or Stephen Skinner's 1671 \"Etymologicon Linguae Anglicanae\"), with the understanding of sound laws and language change and their production was an important task of the \"golden age of philology\" in the 19th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51188604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51188604", "title": "FIBA Europe Cup records and statistics", "text": "FIBA Europe Cup records and statistics\n\nThe comparison of the performances of all of the clubs that participated in the FIBA Europe Cup is below. The qualification rounds were not taken into account.\n\nA total number of 83 clubs from 35 FIBA member countries have participated in the competition. This table consists of all club that have participated in FIBA Europe Cup regular seasons. The French LNB Pro A holds the record for most participants to have ever played in the Europe Cup, with 7 different teams.\n\nBold: club advanced to the play-offs. Underlined: club won the FIBA Europe Cup.\n"}
{"id": "56813756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56813756", "title": "Fernand Léger Museum", "text": "Fernand Léger Museum\n\nThe Fernand Léger Museum, , is a French national museum in Biot, Alpes-Maritimes, in south-eastern France. It is dedicated to the work of the twentieth-century artist Fernand Léger. Although originally privately owned, it is now a state museum entitled to style itself Musée de France.\n\nIn 1955, Fernand Léger bought a villa in Biot, called Mas Saint-Andre, and died soon afterwards. The museum was built on the property after the death of the artist in 1955 by Nadia Léger and , to designs by the architect Andreï Svetchine; an earlier design by Paul Nelson had been rejected. Construction began in 1957, and the museum opened in 1960. The gardens were designed by Henri Fish and contain sculptures based on Léger's work.\n"}
{"id": "14526717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14526717", "title": "Frankfurter Opern- und Museumsorchester", "text": "Frankfurter Opern- und Museumsorchester\n\nThe Frankfurter Opern- und Museumsorchester \"(Frankfurt Opera House and Museum's Orchestra)\" is the resident orchestra of the Frankfurt Opera in Frankfurt am Main, Hesse, Germany. Its somewhat peculiar name is derived from the series of \"Museum Concerts\", organized by the Frankfurter Museumsgesellschaft since 1808. The orchestra is ranked as an \"A-list\" ensemble under the German TVK regulations. Its music director and principal conductor is Sebastian Weigle.\n\nWith a history spanning more than 200 years, the Frankfurter Opern- und Museumsorchester is one of Germany's oldest symphonic ensembles. It was founded in the late 18th century as the orchestra of the Frankfurt Municipal Opera. In addition to playing in the opera house, the orchestra maintains a series of 10 subscription programs per season (each played twice, on Sundays 11 a.m. and Mondays 8 p.m. CET, respectively), performed at the Alte Oper Frankfurt - the former opera house that is now run as a concert hall.\n\nFrom the very beginning, the orchestra attracted top-of-the-line conductors and musicians. Noted German composer-violinist Louis Spohr was the second principal conductor (1817-1819) of the Museumsorchester; his successors included such luminaries as Clemens Krauss, William Steinberg, Franz Konwitschny, Georg Solti, Christoph von Dohnányi and Michael Gielen.\n\nOther notable conductors and composers who led the orchestra have included, from the late 19th century, Gustav Mahler, Richard Strauss, Arthur Nikisch, Hans Pfitzner, Wilhelm Furtwängler, Hans Knappertsbusch, Hermann Abendroth, Bruno Walter and George Szell. The orchestra has played the premieres of several operas.\n\nRichard Strauss' large-scale tone-poems \"Ein Heldenleben\" and \"Also sprach Zarathustra\" were both premiered by the Frankfurter Opern- und Museumsorchester.\n\nMany leading soloists have appeared with the orchestra, beginning with Johannes Brahms and Clara Schumann in the 19th century. From 1915 to 1923, distinguished composer-violist Paul Hindemith served as concertmaster of the Opern- and Museumsorchester. Its repertoire includes major operatic and symphonic works from Baroque to contemporary music.\n\nIn the 2005/2006 and 2006/2007 seasons, the Museumsorchester was voted one of the three top German opera orchestras in the country, selected by the leading operatic magazines in Germany. For the 2007/2008 season, the noted German periodical \"Die deutsche Bühne\" voted the Frankfurt Opera the best opera house in Germany. Finally, in 2009, the respected music-industry magazine \"Opernwelt\" voted the Opern- und Museumsorchester \"Orchestra of the Year\" among all the German opera- and theatre orchestras, an honour the orchestra shares with the Bayerisches Staatsorchester; in both 2010 and 2011 the orchestra was again named \"Orchestra of the Year\".\n\n\nViolins I Ingo de Haas | Dimiter Ivanov | Gesine Kalbhenn-Rzepka | Karin Boerries | Andreas Martin | Vladislav Brunner | Susanne Callenberg-Bissinger | Arvi Rebassoo | Sergio Katz | Hartmut Krause | Basma Abdel-Rahim | Kristin Reisbach | Karen von Trotha | Dorothee Plum | Christine Schwarzmayr | Freya Ritts-Kirby | Juliane Strienz | Almut Frenzel-Riehl | Jefimija Brajovic | Gisela Müller | Beatrice Kohllöffel | Tamara Okolowska | Nemanja Bugarcic\n\nViolins II Guntrun Hausmann | Sebastian Deutscher | Sabine Scheffel | Olga Yukhananova | Lutz ter Voert | Theo Herrmann | Antonin Svoboda | Kyong Sil Kim | Wolfgang Schmidt | Doris Drehwald | Lin Ye | Susanna Laubstein | Donata Wilken | Frank Plieninger | Nobuko Yamaguchi | Regine Schmitt | Marina Sarkysian | Alexandra Wiedner\n\nViolas Thomas Rössel | Philipp Nickel | Wiebke Heidemeier | Ludwig Hampe | Martin Lauer | Dieter Mock | Philipp Hufnagel | Robert Majoros | Miyuki Saito | Jean-Marc Vogt | Mathias Bild | Fred Günther | Ulla Hirsch | Susanne Hefele\n\nVioloncellos Daniel-Robert Graf | Rüdiger Clauß | Sabine Krams | Kaamel Salah-Eldin | Johannes Oesterlee | Philipp Bosbach | Horst Schönwälder | Louise Giedraitis | Corinna Schmitz | Florian Fischer | Roland Horn\n\nDoubles Basses Ichiro Noda | Bruno Suys | Hedwig Matros-Büsing | Akihiro Adachi | Choul-Won Pyun | Ulrich Goltz | Matthias Kuckuk | Philipp Enger | Heinrich Lademann | Hans Uhlmann\n\nFlutes Paul Dahme | Sarah Louvion | Anne-Cathérine Heinzmann | Rolf Bissinger |Almuth Turré | Rüdiger Jacobsen\n\nOboes Nick Deutsch | Giorgi Gvantseladze | Márta Malomvölgyi | Dorothea Gömmel | Oliver Gutsch\n\nClarinets Johannes Gmeinder | Jens Bischof | Diemut Schneider-Tetzlaff | Julia Hollenberg | Matthias Höfer\n\nBassoons Karl Ventulett | Heiko Dechert | Richard Morschel | Eberhard Beer | Stephan Köhr\n\nFrench Horns Sibylle Mahni-Haas | Mahir Kalmik | Fabian Borchers | Casey Rippon | Thomas Bernstein | Silke Schurack | Dirk Delorette | Detlef Holzhauser\n\nTrumpets Wolfgang Basch | David Tasa | Markus Bebek | Wolfgang Guggenberger | Dominik Ring\n\nTrombones Reinhard Nietert | Tim Raschke | Hartmut Friedrich | Manfred Keller | Rainer Hoffmann\n\nTuba/Cimbasso József Juhász-Aba\n\nTimpani Tobias Kästle | Ulrich Weber\n\nPercussion Jürgen Friedel | Nicole Hartig | Michael Dietz\n\nHarps Françoise Friedrich | Barbara Mayr\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38647002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38647002", "title": "Gotha Program", "text": "Gotha Program\n\nThe Gotha Program was the party platform adopted by the nascent Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) at its initial party congress, held in the town of Gotha in 1875. The program called for universal suffrage, freedom of association, limits on the working day, and for other laws protecting the rights and health of workers. The Gotha Program was explicitly socialist: \"the socialist labor party of Germany endeavors by every lawful means to bring about a free state and a socialistic society, to effect the destruction of the iron law of wages by doing away with the system of wage labor, to abolish exploitation of every kind, and to extinguish all social and political inequality\".\n\nKarl Marx famously attacked the platform, which he had read in draft form, in his \"Critique of the Gotha Program\". The SPD's platform would become more explicitly Marxist toward the end of the 19th century, as indicated in its Erfurt Program of 1891.\n\n"}
{"id": "5282265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5282265", "title": "Gus Sonnenberg", "text": "Gus Sonnenberg\n\nGustave Adolph Sonnenberg (March 6, 1898 – September 9, 1944) was an American football player and professional wrestler of German descent and World Heavyweight Champion. As a wrestler, he was National Wrestling Association world heavyweight champion. He played in the National Football League (NFL) from 1923 until 1930, for the Buffalo All-Americans, Columbus Tigers, Detroit Panthers, and Providence Steam Roller, where he was a member of the 1928 NFL championship team.\n\nBorn in Ewen, Michigan, Sonnenberg grew up on a farm in Green Garden, Michigan. He played football at Marquette High School from 1912 to 1915, playing on Marquette's Upper Peninsula championship team in 1915 when the team went 6–0, outscoring opponents 211 to 7. He went on to Dartmouth College in 1916, dropping out after his first year, but returning for a second year in 1919 before transferring to the University of Detroit Mercy, where he graduated.\n\nIn 1923, at age 25, Sonnenberg turned professional, playing in the NFL for the Buffalo All Americans (one game) and the Columbus Tigers. In 1924, he helped the Pottsville Maroons win the Anthracite League Championship in 1924. He played two seasons for the Detroit Panthers (1925, 1926) and then joined the Providence Steam Roller in 1927 and played on the NFL championship team there in 1928.\n\nWhile playing in Providence, Sonnenberg was trained in professional wrestling and made his mat debut on January 24, 1928, at the Arcadia Ballroom in Providence, defeating Ivan Ludlow. Despite being just 5'7\" and 200 pounds and having no background in wrestling, Sonnenberg quickly became a sensation in professional wrestling, changing the style of the sport with his signature move, the \"flying tackle.\" He became a main event wrestler for Boston-based promoter Paul Bowser and unsuccessfully challenged world heavyweight champion Ed \"Strangler\" Lewis on June 30, 1928 at Boston Arena.\n\nAfter returning to the Steam Roller for their championship season, Sonnenberg again wrestled Lewis for the world title on January 4, 1929 and won the championship. Sonnenberg held the title for nearly two years before losing it to Ed Don George on December 10, 1930 in Los Angeles. Sonnenberg and Jim Londos were the two largest draws in pro wrestling in 1929-1930. In October 1929, Sonnenberg was attacked on the streets of Los Angeles by part-time wrestler Pete Ladjimi in an attempt to expose the reigning world champion as weak. Ladjimi was associated with Londos, Sonnenberg's rival.\n\nSonnenberg was again recognized as world champion in the Boston area in 1939, after defeating and unmasking The Shadow (Marvin Westenberg) to become the American Wrestling Association champion. He only held the title for 13 days before dropping it to Steve \"Crusher\" Casey in Boston on March 29, 1939. He continued to wrestle until joining the Navy in 1942.\n\nIn July 1932, Sonnenberg was involved in a fatal car accident in Lawrence, Massachusetts when the car he was driving hit the car of policeman Richard Morrissey, who was killed. Sonnenberg was charged with drunk driving and was acquitted in March 1933.\n\nDays after his acquittal, Sonnenberg married actress Judith Allen. Four months later, in July 1933, Sonnenberg was reported to have suffered a heart attack in Los Angeles. Allen announced her intention to file for divorce while Sonnenberg was recovering in the hospital. She was said to have been seen on a date with Gary Cooper. The divorce was finalized in September. He was later married to Mildred Micelli, who left him.\n\nIn 1942, during World War II, Sonnenberg joined the Navy. He was serving there when he died of leukemia at the Naval Hospital in Bethesda, Maryland on September 12, 1944 at age 46.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24565883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24565883", "title": "Historia Argentina", "text": "Historia Argentina\n\nHistoria Argentina (in English, \"History of Argentina\") in an encyclopedia of three volumes by Diego Abad de Santillán, published in 1965 by TEA (Tipográfica Editora Argentina).\n\nThe encyclopedia is devoted to the history of Argentina. The first chapters, however, talk about the origin of the human race, the early migrations that populated America, the Pre-Columbian populations in modern Argentina, and the voyages of Christopher Columbus to América. \n\n\"History of Argentina\" itself begins to be narrated from the discovery of the Río de la Plata by Juan Díaz de Solís, and follows to the sanction of the Sáenz Peña Law and the first presidential mandate of Hipólito Yrigoyen.\n"}
{"id": "19854159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19854159", "title": "IAF MLA", "text": "IAF MLA\n\nThe International Accreditation Forum (IAF) Multilateral Recognition Arrangements (MLA) consists of an agreement between accreditation bodies for mutual recognition of accreditations. Among the signatories of this agreement are RABQSA International and the International Register of Certificated Auditors (IRCA), the two main management system personnel certification bodies.\n\nThe objective of the IAF MLA is to ensure that the personnel certifications granted by signatories of the IAF MLA can be recognized by other signatories, increasing the worldwide employability of the certified professionals.\n\nMutual recognition is based on peer evaluations between signatories to ensure each other's personnel certifications are equivalent and that each certified professional can perform the required tasks.\n\nThere is currently a debate in the personnel certification world regarding the validity of peer evaluation. Some people criticize the concept of peer evaluation because it implies that the larger personnel certification bodies can impose their standards on others. These people would prefer to see the personnel certification bodies be certified to ISO 17024 with the national standard bodies. Thus, certification bodies would have a fixed set of standards (ISO 17024) to comply to and they'd be evaluated by independent bodies (the national standard bodies).\n\nBut many people criticize the ISO 17024 approach for two reasons:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22606419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22606419", "title": "I Bet You They Won't Play This Song on the Radio", "text": "I Bet You They Won't Play This Song on the Radio\n\n\"I Bet You They Won't Play This Song on the Radio\" is a song performed by Eric Idle, an English comedian and member of Monty Python. It mocks radio censorship of words considered inappropriate (such as \"damn,\" \"shit,\" \"arse,\" etc.). Another similar song, also by Idle, is \"The FCC Song\", whose refrain \"Fuck you very much\" is directed at the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. \"I Bet You They Won't Play This Song on the Radio\" touches on the same subject, but includes bleepings and comic sound-effect noises (such as \"Cha-ching\" or \"Yeeaagh!\") in place of actual profanity.\n\nThe song first appeared on \"Monty Python's Contractual Obligation Album\", and later appeared on two compilation albums: disc two of \"The Final Rip Off\" and the E.P. \"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life\".\n\nIronically, the song has been known to have been played on the radio quite frequently.\n\n"}
{"id": "4808276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4808276", "title": "JXplorer", "text": "JXplorer\n\nJXplorer is a free, open-source client for browsing Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) servers and LDAP Data Interchange Format (LDIF) files. It is released under an Apache-equivalent license. JXplorer is written in Java and is platform independent, configurable, and has been translated into a number of languages. In total, as of 2018, JXplorer has been downloaded over 2 million times from SourceForge and is bundled with several Linux distributions.\n\nSeveral common Linux distributions include JXplorer Software for LDAP server administration. The software also runs on BSD-variants, AIX, HP-UX, OS X, Solaris, Windows (2000, XP) and z/OS.\n\nKey features are:\n\nThe primary authors and maintainers are Chris Betts and Trudi Ersvaer, originally both working in the CA (then Computer Associates) eTrust Directory (now CA Directory) software lab in Melbourne, Australia. Version 3.3, the '10th Anniversary Edition' was released in July 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7989066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7989066", "title": "James Simon Gallery", "text": "James Simon Gallery\n\nThe James Simon Gallery will be a new, centrally located visitor centre between the reconstructed Neues Museum and the \"Kupfergraben\" arm of the Spree river on Museum Island in Berlin. Designed by architect David Chipperfield, the gallery is named after the maecenas Henri James Simon (1851–1932) who brought worldwide fame to the Berlin State Museums with his lavish donations.\n\nAs the ensemble's sixth building, the gallery will have a prominent position at the site of the former \"Packhof\" designed by Karl Friedrich Schinkel, which was demolished in 1938, and will set a concluding accent in the construction history of Museum Island. Chipperfield's first designs featured plain cubes with a hull of satin glass and steel, causing various protests which led to an extensive revision in 2007. The current drafts of the reception building consist of a stone basement, framed by a modern continuation of Friedrich August Stüler's colonnades at the Alte Nationalgalerie.\n\nIn the course of the reorganization of Museum Island according to the master plan originally designed by Giorgio Grassi, the James Simon Gallery is mainly created for the growing numbers of visitors, which, when all the museums have been opened, are expected to reach four million visitors annually. Similar to the Louvre Pyramid, it will receive the visitors for the island, offer them orientation and direct them to the exhibits featured on the main circuit. In addition, the James Simon Gallery will provide the infrastructure of an auditorium, a media centre, rooms for temporary exhibitions, a bookstore, shops, cafés and restaurants for all of Museum Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "47533437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47533437", "title": "Kelley-Roosevelts Asiatic Expedition", "text": "Kelley-Roosevelts Asiatic Expedition\n\nThe William V. Kelley-Roosevelt Asiatic Expedition was a zoological expedition to southeast Asia in 1928–1929 sponsored by the Field Museum of Natural History and organized by Kermit Roosevelt and his brother Theodore Roosevelt, Jr.\n\nWilliam Vallangdiham Kelley (1861–1932), a Field Museum trustee and benefactor, financed the expedition, which was extremely well equipped. There were three separate sections of the expedition — one led by the two Roosevelt brothers, another conducted by the British ornithologist Herbert Stevens, and another led by H. J. Coolidge. The mammalogist W. H. Osgood described the expedition's collection of mammalian skins and designated the Roosevelt brothers' section as the first, Stevens's as the second, and Coolidge's as the third. The first section consisted of the two Roosevelt brothers with the photographer C. Suydam Cutting and their Chinese interpreter.\n\nStevens accompanied the Roosevelts up the Irrawaddy to the Chinese-Burma border and then in January 1929 went north from Tengyueh with his own caravan. During all of February he collected specimens at the Lijiang bend. He then moved north to collect in Sichuan and spent May in the Wushi hills. After some further collecting he went down the Yangtze to Shanghai, sending 2,400 specimens to the Field Museum. After separating from Stevens's section of the expedition, the Roosevelt brothers with Suydam Cutting went rapidly north to collect specimens of the giant panda. The Roosevelts hunted large mammals that were especially rare. Their party proceeded through Burma to Bhamo and northward to Tatsienlu thence to Mouping. Then going southward through Yachow, they crossed the Qingyi (Tung) River and continued their journey traveling slightly east of the Panlong River and reaching the railhead at Yunnanfu. From there, Kermit Roosevelt returned to the United States upon an urgent request. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. and Suydam Cutting continued to the vicinity of Saigon to procure specimens of banteng, seladang, and water buffalo.\n\nHendee departed from Coolidge's party in Laos on 14 May 1929 and started down the Mekong to join Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. and Suydam Cutting in Saigon but shortly after his departure he suffered a severe attack of malarial fever. Taken to a hospital in Vientiane on June 3, Hendee died on June 6.\n\nCoolidge's section of the expedition discovered a new mammalian species Roosevelt's muntjac and a new avian species \"Macronus kelleyi\".\n\nThe expedition brought back several living specimens for the U.S. National Zoological Park:\nThe expedition collected approximately 5000 bird skins.\nThe expedition collected about 2,000 specimens of small mammals and 40 big mammals, including two giant panda skins (a first for Western museum collectors). The Roosevelt brothers shot and collected one panda and purchased a panda skin from a local hunter. The taxidermic panda specimens are on display in the Hall of Asian Mammals in the Field Museum.\n\nKermit and Ted Roosevelt recounted their experiences in their book \"Trailing the Giant Panda\". Part of Suydam Cutting's 1940 book \"The Fire Ox and Other Years\" deals with the Kelley-Roosevelts expedition.\n"}
{"id": "976880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=976880", "title": "Killian documents controversy", "text": "Killian documents controversy\n\nThe Killian documents controversy (also referred to as Memogate or Rathergate) involved six purported documents critical of U.S. President George W. Bush's service in the Texas Air National Guard in 1972–73. Four of these documents were presented as authentic in a \"60 Minutes II\" broadcast aired by CBS on September 8, 2004, less than two months before the 2004 presidential election, but it was later found that CBS had failed to authenticate the documents. Subsequently, several typewriter and typography experts concluded the documents were forgeries. No forensic document examiners or typography experts have authenticated the documents, and this may not be technically possible without the original documents. The purveyor of the documents, Lt. Col. Bill Burkett, claims to have burned the originals after faxing copies to CBS.\n\nCBS News producer Mary Mapes obtained the copied documents from Burkett, a former officer in the Texas Army National Guard, while pursuing a story about the George W. Bush military service controversy. The papers, purportedly made by Bush's commander, the late Lieutenant Colonel Jerry B. Killian, included criticisms of Bush's service in the Guard during the 1970s. In the \"60 Minutes\" segment, anchor Dan Rather stated: \"We are told [the documents] were taken from Lieutenant Colonel Killian's personal files\" and incorrectly asserted that \"the material\" had been authenticated by experts retained by CBS.\n\nThe authenticity of the documents was challenged within hours on Internet forums and blogs, with questions initially focused on alleged anachronisms in the documents' typography. Content soon spread to the mass media. Although CBS and Rather defended the authenticity and usage of the documents for a two-week period, continued scrutiny from other news organizations and independent analysis of the documents obtained by \"USA Today\" and CBS raised questions about their validity and led to a public repudiation on September 20, 2004. Rather stated, \"if I knew then what I know now – I would not have gone ahead with the story as it was aired, and I certainly would not have used the documents in question,\" and CBS News President Andrew Heyward said, \"Based on what we now know, CBS News cannot prove that the documents are authentic, which is the only acceptable journalistic standard to justify using them in the report. We should not have used them. That was a mistake, which we deeply regret.\"\n\nSeveral months later, a CBS-appointed panel led by Dick Thornburgh and Louis Boccardi criticized both the initial CBS news segment and CBS' \"strident defense\" during the aftermath. CBS fired producer Mary Mapes, several senior news executives were asked to resign, and CBS apologized to viewers. \"The panel has not been able to conclude with absolute certainly whether the Killian documents are authentic,\" but concluded that the producers had failed to authenticate them, and cited \"substantial questions regarding the authenticity of the Killian documents.\"\n\nThe story of the controversy was dramatized in the 2015 film \"Truth\", starring Robert Redford as Dan Rather and Cate Blanchett as Mary Mapes and directed by James Vanderbilt. It is based on Mapes' memoir \"Truth and Duty: The Press, the President, and the Privilege of Power\". The film was, however, not approved by former CBS President and CEO Leslie Moonves. CBS refused to air advertisements for the film and a longtime CBS spokesman stated that \"there are ... too many distortions, evasions and baseless conspiracy theories\" [in the movie].\n\nThe memos, allegedly written in 1972 and 1973, were obtained by CBS News producer Mary Mapes and freelance journalist Michael Smith, from Lt. Col. Bill Burkett, a former US Army National Guard officer. Mapes and Dan Rather, among many other journalists, had been investigating for several years the story of Bush's alleged failure to fulfill his obligations to the National Guard.\n\nBurkett had received publicity in 2000, after making and then retracting a claim that he had been transferred to Panama for refusing \"to falsify personnel records of [then-]Governor Bush\", and in February 2004, when he claimed to have knowledge of \"scrubbing\" of Bush's Texas Air National Guard records. Mapes was \"by her own account [aware that] many in the press considered Burkett an 'anti-Bush zealot,' his credibility in question.\"\n\nMapes and Smith made contact with Burkett in late August, and on August 24 Burkett offered to meet with them to share the documents he possessed, and later told reporters from \"USA Today\" \"that he had agreed to turn over the documents to CBS if the network would arrange a conversation with the Kerry campaign,\" a claim substantiated by emails between Smith and Mapes detailing Burkett's additional requests for help with negotiating a book deal, security, and financial compensation. During the last week of August, Mapes asked Josh Howard, her immediate superior at CBS, for permission to facilitate contact between Burkett and the Kerry campaign; Howard and Mapes subsequently disputed whether such permission had been given.\n\nTwo documents were provided by Burkett to Mapes on September 2 and four others on September 5, 2004. At that time, Burkett told Mapes that they were copies of originals that had been obtained from Killian's personal files via Chief Warrant Officer George Conn, another former member of the TexANG.\n\nMapes informed Rather of the progress of the story, which was being targeted to air on September 8 along with footage of an interview with Ben Barnes, a former Lieutenant Governor of Texas, who would publicly state for the first time his opinion that Bush had received preferential treatment to get into the National Guard. Mapes had also been in contact with the Kerry campaign several times between late August and September 6, when she spoke with senior Kerry advisor Joe Lockhart regarding the progressing story. Lockhart subsequently stated he was \"wary\" of contact with Mapes at this stage, because if the story were true, his involvement might undermine its credibility, and if it were false, \"he did not want to be associated with it.\" Lockhart called Burkett on September 6 at the number provided by Mapes, and both men stated they discussed Burkett's view of Kerry's Presidential campaign strategy, not the existence of the documents or the related story.\n\nThe documents claimed that Bush had disobeyed orders while in the Guard, and that undue influence had been exerted on Bush's behalf to improve his record. The documents included the following:\n\n\n\"USA Today\" also received copies of the four documents used by CBS, reporting this and publishing them the morning after the CBS segment, along with two additional memos. Burkett was assured by \"USA Today\" that they would keep the source confidential.\n\nMapes and her colleagues began interviewing people who might be able to corroborate the information in the documents, while also retaining four forensic document experts, Marcel J. Matley, James J. Pierce, Emily Will, and Linda James, to determine the validity of the memos.\n\nOn September 5, CBS interviewed Killian's friend Robert Strong, who ran the Texas Air National Guard administrative office. Among other issues covered in his interview with Rather and Mapes, Strong was asked if he thought the documents were genuine. Strong stated, \"they are compatible with the way business was done at the time. They are compatible with the man that I remember Jerry Killian being.\" Strong had first seen the documents twenty minutes earlier and also said he had no personal knowledge of their content; he later claimed he had been told to assume the content of the documents was accurate.\n\nOn September 6, CBS interviewed General Robert \"Bobby\" Hodges, a former officer at the Texas Air National Guard and Killian's immediate superior at the time. Hodges declined CBS' request for an on-camera interview, and Mapes read the documents to him over the telephone—or perhaps only portions of the documents; his recollection and Mapes's differed. According to Mapes, Hodges agreed with CBS's assessment that the documents were real, and CBS reported that Hodges stated that these were \"the things that Killian had expressed to me at the time.\" However, according to Hodges, when Mapes read portions of the memos to him he simply stated, \"well if he wrote them, that's what he felt,\" and he claims he never confirmed the validity of the content of the documents. General Hodges later asserted to the investigatory panel that he told Mapes that Killian had never, to his knowledge, ordered anyone to take a physical and that he had never been pressured regarding Lieutenant Bush, as the documents alleged. Hodges also claims that when CBS interviewed him, he thought the memos were handwritten, not typed, and following the September 8 broadcast, when Hodges had seen the documents and heard of claims of forgery by Killian's wife and son, he was \"convinced they were not authentic\" and told Rather and Mapes on September 10.\n\nPrior to airing, all four of the examiners responded to Mapes' request for document analysis, though only two to Mapes directly:\n\n\nThe segment, entitled \"For the Record,\" aired on \"60 Minutes Wednesday\" on September 8. After introducing the documents, Rather said, in reference to Matley, \"We consulted a handwriting analyst and document expert who believes the material is authentic.\"\n\nThe segment introduced Lieutenant Robert Strong's interview, describing him as a \"friend of Killian\" (without noting he had not worked in the same location and without mentioning he had left the TexANG prior to the dates on the memos). The segment used the sound bite of Strong saying the documents were compatible with how business was done but did not include a disclaimer that Strong was told to assume the documents were authentic.\n\nIn Rather's narration about one of the memos, he referred to pressure being applied on Bush's behalf by General Buck Staudt, and described Staudt as \"the man in charge of the Texas National Guard.\" Staudt had retired from the guard a year and a half prior to the dates of the memos.\n\nInterview clips with Ben Barnes, former Speaker of the Texas House, created the impression \"that there was no question but that President Bush had received Barnes' help to get into the TexANG,\" because Barnes had made a telephone call on Bush's behalf, when Barnes himself had acknowledged that there was no proof his call was the reason, and that \"sometimes a call to General Rose did not work.\" Barnes' disclaimer was not included in the segment.\n\nDiscussion quickly spread to various weblogs in the blogosphere, principally Little Green Footballs and Power Line. The initial analysis appeared in posts by \"Buckhead,\" a username of Harry W. MacDougald, an Atlanta attorney who had worked for conservative groups such as the Federalist Society and the Southeastern Legal Foundation, and who had helped draft the petition to the Arkansas Supreme Court for the disbarment of President Bill Clinton. MacDougald questioned the validity of the documents on the basis of their typography, writing that the memos were \"in a proportionally spaced font, probably Palatino or Times New Roman,\" and alleging that this was an anachronism: \"I am saying these documents are forgeries, run through a copier for 15 generations to make them look old. This should be pursued aggressively.\"\n\nBy the following day, questions about the authenticity of the documents were being publicized by the \"Drudge Report\", which linked to the analysis at the Powerline blog in the mid-afternoon, and the story was covered on the website of the magazine \"The Weekly Standard\" and broke into mass media outlets, including the Associated Press and the major television news networks. It also was receiving serious attention from conservative writers such as National Review Online's Jim Geraghty. By the afternoon of September 9, Charles Foster Johnson of Little Green Footballs had posted his attempt to recreate one of the documents using Microsoft Word with the default settings. The September 9 edition of ABC's \"Nightline\" made mention of the controversy, along with an article on the ABC News website.\n\nThirteen days after this controversy had emerged the national newspaper \"USA Today\" published a timeline of events surrounding the CBS story. Accordingly, on the September 9 morning after the \"60 minutes\" report, the broadcast was front-page news in the \"New York Times\" and \"Washington Post\". Additionally, the story was given two-thirds of a full page within \"USA Today\"'s news section, which mentioned that it had also obtained copies of the documents. However, the authenticity of the memos was not part of the story carried by major news outlets on that day. Also on that day, CBS published the reaction of Killian's son, Gary, to the documents, reporting that Gary Killian questioned one of the memos but stated that others \"appeared legitimate\" and characterized the collection as \"a mixture of truth and fiction\". In an interview with Fox News, Gary Killian expressed doubts about the documents' authenticity on the basis of his father's positive view of Bush.\n\nIn 2006, the two Free Republic (Rathergate) bloggers, Harry W. MacDougald, username \"Buckhead,\" an Atlanta-based lawyer and Paul Boley, username \"TankerKC\", were awarded the \"Reed Irvine Award for New Media\" by the Accuracy in Media watchdog at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC).\n\nAt 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, September 9, CBS News released a statement saying the memos were \"thoroughly investigated by independent experts, and we are convinced of their authenticity\", and stating, \"this report was not based solely on recovered documents, but rather on a preponderance of evidence, including documents that were provided by unimpeachable sources, ...\". In an interview with WorldNetDaily, CBS News spokesperson Kelli Edwards said, \"CBS verified the authenticity of the documents by talking to individuals who had seen the documents at the time they were written.\" The statement was replaced later that day with one that omitted this claim.\n\nThe first newspaper articles questioning the documents appeared on September 10 in \"The Washington Post\", \"The New York Times\" and in \"USA Today\" via the Associated Press. The Associated Press reported, \"Document examiner Sandra Ramsey Lines ... said she was 'virtually certain' [the documents] were generated by computer. Lines said that meant she could testify in court that, beyond a reasonable doubt, her opinion was that the memos were written on a computer.\"\n\nAlso on September 10, \"The Dallas Morning News\" reported that \"the officer named in one memo as exerting pressure to 'sugarcoat' Bush's military record was discharged a year and a half before the memo was written. The paper cited a military record showing that Col. Walter \"Buck\" Staudt was honorably discharged on March 1, 1972, while the memo cited by CBS as showing that Staudt was interfering with evaluations of Bush was dated August 18, 1973.\"\n\nIn response to the media attention, a CBS memo said that the documents were \"backed up not only by independent handwriting and forensic document experts but by sources familiar with their content\" and insisted that no internal investigation would take place. On the CBS Evening News of September 10, Rather defended the story and noted that its critics included \"partisan political operatives.\"\n\n\nIn an appearance on CNN that day, Rather asserted \"I know that this story is true. I believe that the witnesses and the documents are authentic. We wouldn't have gone to air if they would not have been.\"\n\nHowever, CBS' Josh Howard spoke at length by telephone with typewriter expert Peter Tytell and later told the panel that the discussion was \"an 'unsettling event' that shook his belief in the authenticity of the documents.\" Producer Mapes dismissed Tytell's concerns.\nA former vice president of CBS News, Jonathan Klein, dismissed the allegations of bloggers, suggesting that the \"checks and balances\" of a professional news organization were superior to those of individuals sitting at their home computers \"in their pajamas.\"\n\nAs media coverage widened and intensified, CBS at first attempted to produce additional evidence to support its claims. On September 11, a CBS News segment stated that document expert Phillip Bouffard thought the documents \"could have been prepared on an IBM Selectric Composer typewriter, available at the time.\" The Selectric Composer was introduced in 1966 for use by typesetting professionals to generate camera-ready copy; according to IBM archives describing this specialized equipment, \"To produce copy which can be reproduced with 'justified', or straight left-and right-hand margins, the operator types the copy once and the composer computes the number of spaces needed to justify the line. As the operator types the copy a second time, the spaces are added automatically.\" Bouffard's comments were also cited by the \"Boston Globe\" in an article entitled \"Authenticity backed on Bush documents.\" However, the \"Globe\" soon printed a retraction regarding the title. CBS noted that although General Hodges was now stating he thought the documents were inauthentic, \"we believed General Hodges the first time we spoke with him.\" CBS reiterated: \"we believe the documents to be genuine.\"\n\nBy September 13, CBS's position had shifted slightly, as Rather acknowledged \"some of these questions come from people who are not active political partisans,\" and stated that CBS \"talked to handwriting and document analysts and other experts who strongly insist the documents \"could have been created\" in the '70s,\" (emphasis added). The analysts and experts cited by Rather did not include the original four consulted by CBS. Rather instead presented the views of Bill Glennon and Richard Katz. Glennon, a former typewriter repairman with no specific credentials in typesetting beyond that job, was found by CBS after posting several defenses of the memos on blogs including Daily Kos and Kevin Drum's blog hosted at Washington Monthly. However, in the actual broadcast, neither interviewee asserted that the memos were genuine.\n\nAs a result, some CBS critics began to accuse CBS of expert shopping.\n\nThe original document examiners, however, continued to be part of the story. By September 15, Emily Will was publicly stating that she had told CBS that she had doubts about both the production of the memos and the handwriting prior to the segment. Linda James stated that the memos were of \"very poor quality\" and that she did not authenticate them, telling ABC News, \"I did not authenticate anything and I don't want it understood that I did.\"\n\nIn response, \"60 Minutes Wednesday\" released a statement suggesting that Will and James had \"misrepresented\" their role in the authentication of the documents and had played only a small part in the process. CBS News concurrently amended its previous claim that Matley had authenticated the documents, saying instead that he had only authenticated the signatures. On CNN, Matley stated he had only verified that the signatures were \"from the same source,\" not that they were authentically Killian's: \"When I saw the documents, I could not verify the documents were authentic or inauthentic. I could only verify that the signatures came from the same source,\" Matley said. \"I could not authenticate the documents themselves. But at the same time, there was nothing to tell me that they were not authentic.\"\n\nOn the evening of September 15, CBS aired a segment that featured an interview with Marian Carr Knox, a secretary at Ellington Air Force Base from 1956–1979, and who was Killian's assistant on the dates shown in the documents. Dan Rather prefaced the segment on the recorded interview by stating \"She told us she believes what the documents actually say is, exactly, as we reported.\" In the aired interview, Knox expressed her belief that the documents reflected Killian's \"sentiments\" about Bush's service, and that this belief motivated her decision to reach out to CBS to provide the interview. In response to a direct question from Rather about the authenticity of the memo on Bush's alleged insubordination, she stated that no such memo was ever written; she further emphasized that she would have known if such a memo existed, as she had sole responsibility to type Killian's memos in that time period. At this point, she also admitted she had no firsthand knowledge of Bush's time in the Guard. However, controversially, Knox said later in the interview, \"The information in here was correct, but it was picked up from the real ones.\" She went on to say, \"I probably typed the information and somebody picked up the information some way or another.\" The \"New York Times\"' headline report on this interview, including the phrase \"Fake but Accurate,\" created an immediate backlash from critics of CBS's broadcast. The conservative-leaning \"Weekly Standard\" proceeded to predict the end of CBS's news division.\n\nAt this time, Dan Rather first acknowledged there were problems in establishing the validity of the documents used in the report, stating: \"If the documents are not what we were led to believe, I'd like to break that story.\"\n\nCBS also hired a private investigator to look into the matter after the story aired and the controversy began.\n\nCopies of the documents were first released to the public by the White House. Press Secretary Scott McClellan stated that the memos had been provided to them by CBS in the days prior to the report and that, \"We had every reason to believe that they were authentic at that time.\"\n\nThe \"Washington Post\" reported that at least one of the documents obtained by CBS had a fax header indicating it had been faxed from a Kinko's copy center in Abilene, Texas, leading some to trace the documents back to Burkett.\n\nAs a growing number of independent document examiners and competing news outlets reported their findings about the documents, CBS News stopped defending the documents and began to report on the problems with their story. On September 20 they reported that their source, Bill Burkett, \"admits that he deliberately misled the CBS News producer working on the report, giving her a false account of the documents' origins to protect a promise of confidentiality to the actual source.\" While the network did not state that the memos were forgeries, CBS News president Andrew Heyward said,\n\nBased on what we now know, CBS News cannot prove that the documents are authentic, which is the only acceptable journalistic standard to justify using them in the report. We should not have used them. That was a mistake, which we deeply regret.\n\nDan Rather stated, \"if I knew then what I know now — I would not have gone ahead with the story as it was aired, and I certainly would not have used the documents in question.\"\n\nIn an interview with Rather, Burkett admitted that he misled CBS about the source of the documents, and then claimed that the documents came to him from someone he claimed was named \"Lucy Ramirez\", whom CBS was unable to contact or identify as an actual person. Burkett said he then made copies at the local Kinko's and burned the original documents. Investigations by CBS, CNN and the Washington Post failed to turn up any evidence relating to this supposed \"Lucy Ramirez\" being an actual person.:\n\nOn September 21, CBS News addressed the contact with the Kerry campaign in its statement:\n\nIt is obviously against CBS News standards and those of every other reputable news organization to be associated with any political agenda.\n\nThe next day the network announced it was forming an independent review panel to perform an internal investigation.\n\nSoon after, CBS established a review panel \"to help determine what errors occurred in the preparation of the report and what actions need to be taken.\" Dick Thornburgh, a Republican former governor of Pennsylvania and United States Attorney General under George H.W. Bush, and Louis Boccardi, retired president and chief executive officer and former executive editor of the Associated Press, made up the two-person review board. CBS also hired a private investigator, a former FBI agent named Erik T. Rigler, to gather further information about the story.\n\nOn January 5, 2005, the \"Report of the Independent Review Panel on the September 8, 2004, \"60 Minutes Wednesday\" Segment \"For the Record\" Concerning President Bush's Air National Guard Service\" was released. The purpose of the panel was to examine the process by which the September 8 Segment was prepared and broadcast, to examine the circumstances surrounding the subsequent public statements and news reports by CBS News defending the segment, and to make any recommendations it deemed appropriate. Among the Panel's conclusions were the following:\n\nThe Panel did not undertake a thorough examination of the authenticity of the Killian documents, but consulted Peter Tytell, a New York City-based forensic document examiner and typewriter and typography expert. Tytell had been contacted by \"60 Minutes\" producers prior to the broadcast, and had informed associate producer Yvonne Miller and executive producer Josh Howard on September 10 that he believed the documents were forgeries. The Panel report stated, \"The Panel met with Peter Tytell, and found his analysis sound in terms of why he thought the documents were not authentic ... The Panel reaches no conclusion as to whether Tytell was correct in all respects.\"\n\nThe controversy had long-reaching personal, political and legal consequences. In a 2010 issue of \"TV Guide\", Rather's report was ranked #3 on a list of TV's ten biggest \"blunders\".\n\nCBS terminated Mary Mapes and demanded the resignations of \"60 Minutes Wednesday\" Executive Producer Josh Howard and Howard's top deputy, Senior Broadcast Producer Mary Murphy, as well as Senior Vice President Betsy West, who had been in charge of all prime time newscasts. Murphy and West resigned on February 25, 2005, and after settling a legal dispute regarding his level of responsibility for the segment, Josh Howard resigned on March 25, 2005.\n\nDan Rather announced on November 23, 2004 that he would step down in early 2005 and on March 9, his 24th anniversary as anchor, he left the network. It is unclear whether or not Rather's retirement was directly caused by this incident, although many believe that he had to step down a year earlier than planned. Les Moonves, CEO of CBS, stated \"Dan Rather has already apologized for the segment and taken responsibility for his part in the broadcast. He voluntarily moved to set a date to step down from the 'CBS Evening News' in March of 2005.\" He added, \"We believe any further action would not be appropriate.\"\n\nCBS was originally planning to show a '60 Minutes' report critical of the Bush administration justification for going to war in Iraq. This segment was replaced with the Killian documents segment. CBS further postponed airing the Iraq segment until after the election due to the controversy over the Killian documents. \"We now believe it would be inappropriate to air the report so close to the presidential election,\" CBS spokesman Kelli Edwards said in a statement.\n\nAfter the Killian documents controversy, the show was renamed \"60 Minutes Wednesday\" to differentiate it from the original \"60 Minutes\" Sunday edition, and reverted to its original title on July 8, 2005, when it was moved to the 8 p.m. Friday timeslot. It was cancelled in 2005 due to low ratings.\n\nOn November 9, 2005, Mary Mapes gave an interview to ABC News correspondent Brian Ross. Mapes stated that the documents have never been proved to be forgeries. Ross expressed the view that the responsibility is on the reporter to verify their authenticity. Mapes responded with, \"I don't think that's the standard.\" This stands in contrast to the statement of the president of CBS News that proof of authenticity is \"the only acceptable journalistic standard.\" Also in November 2005, Mapes told readers of the \"Washington Post\", \"I personally believe the documents are not false,\" and \"I was fired for airing a story that could not definitively be proved false but made CBS's public relations department cringe.\" As of September 2007, Mapes continued to defend the authenticity of the documents: \"the far right blogosphere bully boys ... screamed objections that ultimately proved to have no basis in fact.\"\n\nOn November 7, 2006, Rather defended the report in a radio interview, and rejected the CBS investigation's findings. In response, CBS spokesman Kevin Tedesco told the Associated Press, \"CBS News stands by the report the independent panel issued on this matter and to this day, no one has been able to authenticate the documents in question.\"\n\nDan Rather continued to stand by the story, and in subsequent interviews stated that he believed that the documents have never conclusively been proven to be forgeries — and that even if the documents are false, the underlying story is true.\n\nOn September 19, 2007, Rather filed a $70 million lawsuit against CBS and its former corporate parent, Viacom, claiming they had made him a \"scapegoat\" over the controversy caused by the 2004 \"60 Minutes Wednesday\" report that featured the Killian documents. The suit names as defendants: CBS and its CEO, Leslie Moonves: Viacom, Sumner Redstone, chairman of both Viacom and CBS Corporation; and Andrew Heyward, the former president of CBS News.\n\nIn January 2008, the legal teams for Rather and CBS reached an agreement to produce for Rather's attorneys \"virtually all of the materials\" related to the case, including the findings of Erik T. Rigler's report to CBS about the documents and the story.\n\nOn September 29, 2009, New York State Appeals Court dismissed Rather's lawsuit and stated that the lower court should have honored CBS's request to throw out the entire lawsuit instead of just throwing out parts.\n\nNo generally recognized document experts have positively authenticated the memos. Since CBS used only faxed and photocopied duplicates, authentication to professional standards is impossible, regardless of the provenance of the originals.\n\nDocument experts have challenged the authenticity of the documents as photocopies of valid originals on a variety of grounds ranging from anachronisms of their typography, their quick reproducibility using modern technology, and to errors in their content and style.\n\nThe CBS independent panel report did not specifically take up the question of whether the documents were forgeries, but retained a document expert, Peter Tytell, who concluded the documents used by CBS were produced using current word processing technology.\n\nTytell concluded ... that (i) the relevant portion of the Superscript Exemplar was produced on an Olympia manual typewriter, (ii) the Killian documents were not produced on an Olympia manual typewriter and (iii) the Killian documents were produced on a computer in Times New Roman typestyle [and that] the Killian documents were not produced on a typewriter in the early 1970s and therefore were not authentic.\n\nSome critics of CBS and Dan Rather argued that by proceeding with the story when the documents had not been authenticated, CBS was exhibiting liberal bias and attempting to influence the outcome of the 2004 U.S. Presidential Election. Freelance journalist Michael Smith had emailed Mapes, asking, \"What if there was a person who might have some information that could possibly change the momentum of an election but we needed to get an ASAP book deal to help get us the information?\" Mapes replied, \"that looks good, hypothetically\nspeaking of course.\" The Thornburgh-Boccardi report found that Mapes' contact with Kerry adviser Joe Lockhart was \"highly inappropriate\", and that it \"crossed the line as, at a minimum, it gave the appearance of a political bias and could have been perceived as a news organizations' assisting a campaign as opposed to reporting on a story;\" however, the Panel did not \"find a basis to accuse those who investigated, produced, vetted or aired the Segment of having a political bias.\" In a later interview with \"The Washington Post\", when asked about the issue of political bias, review panel member Louis Boccardi said \"bias is a hard thing to prove.\"\nThe panel concluded that the problems occurred \"primarily because of a rush to air that overwhelmed the proper application of the CBS News Standards\".\n\nSome Democratic critics of Bush suggested that the memos were produced by the Bush campaign to discredit the media's reporting on Bush's National Guard service. The chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Terry McAuliffe, suggested that the memos might have originated with long-time Bush strategist Karl Rove. McAuliffe told reporters on September 10, \"I can tell you that nobody at the Democratic National Committee or groups associated with us were involved in any way with these documents,\" he said. \"I'm just saying that I would ask Karl Rove the same question.\" McAuliffe later pointed out that Rove and another Republican operative, Ralph E. Reed, Jr., had \"a known history of dirty tricks,\" and he asked whether Republican National Committee chairman Ed Gillespie would rule out any involvement by GOP consultant Roger Stone. At a community forum in Utica, New York in 2005, U.S. Representative Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) pointed out that the controversy served Rove's objectives: \"Once they did that, then it undermined everything else about Bush's draft dodging. ... That had the effect of taking the whole issue away.\" After being criticized, Hinchey responded, \"I didn't allege I had any facts. I said this is what I believe and take it for what it's worth.\"\n\nRove and Stone have denied any involvement. In a 2008 interview in \"The New Yorker\", Stone said \"It was nuts to think I had anything to do with those documents ... [t]hose papers were potentially devastating to George Bush. You couldn't put them out there assuming that they would be discredited. You couldn't have assumed that this would rebound to Bush's benefit. I believe in bank shots, but that one was too big a risk.\"\n\n\nThese are the Killian documents supplied to CBS Reports by Bill Burkett: \n\nPage 31 is a 3 November 1970 memo from the office of Lt Col Killian on promotion of Lt Bush:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12728820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12728820", "title": "Metaweb", "text": "Metaweb\n\nMetaweb Technologies, Inc. was a San Francisco-based company that developed Freebase, described as an \"open, shared database of the world's knowledge\". The company was co-founded by Danny Hillis, Veda Hlubinka-Cook and John Giannandrea in 2005.\n\nMetaweb was acquired by Google in 2010. Google shut down Freebase in 2016, transferring all its data to Wikidata.\nOn March 14, 2006, Metaweb received $15 million in funding. Investors included Benchmark Capital, Millennium Technology Ventures, and Omidyar Network. On January 15, 2008, Metaweb announced a $42.5 million Series B round led by Goldman Sachs and Benchmark Capital.\n\nKevin Harvey of Benchmark Capital was a member of Metaweb's board of directors.\n\nOn July 16, 2010, Google acquired Metaweb for an undisclosed sum.\n"}
{"id": "32222576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32222576", "title": "Museo de Arte Antonio Paredes Candia", "text": "Museo de Arte Antonio Paredes Candia\n\nThe Museo de Arte Antonio Paredes Candia is an art museum in El Alto, Bolivia.\n\nInaugurated in 2002, as of 2011 the museum contains 503 works of art and 11,931 books. It includes works by Pérez Alcalá, Darío Antezana, Gil Imana, Alfredo Laplaca, Marina Núñez del Prado, Víctor Zapana, Gonzalo Condarco, and many more.\n\nIn 2013, organized by contemporary art collective Public Delivery, Swiss-Bolivian artist Luciano Calderon had a solo show titled Ciudad Esperanza.\n"}
{"id": "8144722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8144722", "title": "Museum Planning Area", "text": "Museum Planning Area\n\nThe Museum Planning Area is a planning area located in the Central Area of the Central Region of Singapore. The area plays a \"bridging role\" between the Orchard area and the Downtown Core, which necessitates proper transport networks for vehicles, pedestrians and public transport. Due to the sheer size of green areas in the district, the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) has designated it a 'green lung' in the Central Area. However, the Museum Planning Area is also home to cultural and commercial activities. Around 65% of the area is available for future development, making it a hotbed for new infrastructure and buildings.\n\nMuseum planning area is bounded by the planning areas of Newton and Rochor to the north, the Downtown Core to the southeast, Singapore River to the south, River Valley to the west and Orchard to the northwest.\n\nTen national monuments are located within the Museum Planning Area, namely the Armenian Church, the Cathedral of the Good Shepherd, Cathay Building (now The Cathay), the Central Fire Station, the House of Tan Yeok Nee, the MacDonald House, the Old Tao Nan School (Peranakan Museum), the National Museum of Singapore, the Old Hill Street Police Station and the Singapore Art Museum/Former Saint Joseph's Institution. The area is home to significant events such as the Battle of Singapore and MacDonald House bombing. Other historical sites include:\n\n\nThe Museum Planning Area is bordered by Rochor to the northeast, the Downtown Core to the southeast, the Singapore River Area to the southwest, River Valley to the west and Newton and Orchard to the northwest. The area is roughly bounded by Hill Street, River Valley Road, Clemenceau Avenue and Bras Basah Road. It is the smallest urban planning area, with an area of 83 hectares. \n\nParks and open spaces take up a third of the area of the Museum Planning Area, and include Fort Canning, Istana Park and Bras Basah Park, which can be used for recreational purposes. Collectively, these places will form the so-called 'green lung' of the Central Area. Terraces have been proposed to allow for \"a more prominent and convenient access\" to the Fort Canning area.\n\nThe Museum Planning Area is Singapore's \"institutional hub\", with 11% of land set aside for institutional use and reserve sites to be safeguarded for future institutions. The many museums in the area, which give the Museum District its name, include the National Museum of Singapore, the Singapore Art Museum, the Asian Civilisations Museum, the National Archives of Singapore and the Singapore Philatelic Museum.\n\nThe arts scene is vibrant in the area, with The Substation, the Singapore Calligraphy Centre, the YMS Arts Centre and the Singapore Dance Ensemble all located within its boundaries. Scattered throughout the area are places of worship such as churches, mosques, Hindu temples and synagogues. The Registry of Marriages and the sprawling Singapore Management University campus are also located in the area.\n\nDespite its prime location, residential projects were only allocated 1% of the land area, and the Museum Planning Area was criticised for lacking residential zoning. Due to the lack of residents, there were fears that the area would become a \"ghost town\" at night. Furthermore, the concept of living within the Central Area had gained popularity, and up-market skyscraper condominiums could be built. The greenery of the Museum Planning Area could provide a peaceful environment for living. \n\nThe URA replied that several plots of land had been sold for residential-commercial mixed use, and that more housing developments were to be planned and constructed. The URA emphasised the importance of the area as a transition between the central business district and shopping areas, as well as the green, pedestrian-friendly nature of the URA's plan for the area.\n\nThe Museum Planning Area is home to various shopping malls, including Park Mall, Plaza Singapura, The Cathay, Singapore Shopping Centre and The Atrium @ Orchard. More vacant land will be set aside for commercial uses, especially around Dhoby Ghaut MRT Station and Bras Basah MRT Station. These will be properly integrated and connected with the respective stations.\n\nHotels in the area include Bayview Hotel Singapore and Hotel Rendezvous. Furthermore, a hotel development at the foot of Fort Canning Hill near the junction of Clemenceau Avenue and River Valley Road is in the planning stages, and is meant to be a retreat from urban living \"amidst lush greenery\". Other developments are planned on reserved sites near Fort Canning, but details have not been released.\n\nThe Museum Planning Area is served by four Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) Stations: Dhoby Ghaut, Bras Basah, Fort Canning and Bencoolen The North South Line and the North East Line can only be accessible from Dhoby Ghaut while the Circle Line can be accessible from both and the Downtown Line can be accessible from Fort Canning and Bencoolen. The Central Expressway's Chin Swee Tunnel also passes under the area. \n\nSeveral changes to the road network in the area will be implemented, including the construction of Fort Canning Tunnel and the realignment of Stamford Road and Handy Road. The rationale for the improvements is increased traffic from Marina Centre and relieving the traffic congestion along Orchard Road. Furthermore, a new road network has been put in place to ensure smooth traffic flow after the full development of land around the MRT Stations.\n\n\nThe Development Guide Plan for the Museum Planning Area envisages \"a comprehensive pedestrian network linking developments, parks and open spaces\". New promenades and pedestrian malls are planned for the area to enhance and connect existing sidewalks. A web of underpasses and covered walkways will link Orchard, the Singapore River, Raffles City and Marina Centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1369068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1369068", "title": "National Conservation Centre", "text": "National Conservation Centre\n\nThe National Conservation Centre, formerly the Midland Railway Goods Warehouse, is located in Liverpool, Merseyside, England. It stands in a block surrounded by Victoria Street, Crosshall Street, Whitechapel, and Peter Street. After it closed as a warehouse it was converted into a conservation centre for National Museums Liverpool in the 1990s. Initially its exhibition area was open to the public, but this closed in 2010. The centre is recorded in the National Heritage List for England as a designated Grade II listed building.\n\nThe warehouse was built as a depot for the storage of railway freight in 1872 for the Midland Railway. It was designed by the local architect Henry Sumners of Culshaw and Sumners. The building was extended along Peter Street in 1878 in a similar architectural style. Between 1995 and 1996 it was converted by another local architect, Ken Martin, into the Conservation Centre for National Museums Liverpool. In addition to its conservation work, the centre had an exhibition area open to the public to demonstrate the techniques of conservation, which attracted 60,000 visitors a year. In September 2005 the centre closed for refurbishment, and re-opened in June 2006 as the National Conservation Centre. Because of government cuts in funding, the visitor centre closed in 2010, but conservation work continues in the building.\n\nThe centre is constructed in red brick on a rusticated stone plinth, with stone dressings and bands, and some decoration in blue brick. The exterior of the building is expressed as three or four storeys, and around the top of the building is a cornice with modillions. The hipped roof is in slate. On each of the four sides are arched openings large enough to admit freight. The front on Crosshall Street is concave; it is in eight bays, each bay consisting of a tall blind arch containing windows, two of which also have arched entrances. On the Victoria Street front are carved spandrels containing shields and the names of stations of the Midland Railway. In 1921 Charles Reilly, Professor of Architecture at the University of Liverpool, was of the opinion that at the time it was \"one of the best buildings in the town\". On 14 March 1975, it was designated as a Grade II listed building.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818846", "title": "News leak", "text": "News leak\n\nA news leak is the unsanctioned release of confidential information to news media. It can also be the premature publication of information by a news outlet, of information that it has agreed not to release before a specified time, in violation of a news embargo.\n\nLeaks are often made by employees of an organization who happened to have access to interesting information but who are not officially authorized to disclose it to the press. They may believe that doing so is in the public interest due to the need for speedy publication, because it otherwise would not have been able to be made public, or simply as self-promotion, to elevate the leaker as a person of importance. Leaks can be intentional or unintentional. A leaker may be doing the journalist a personal favor (possibly in exchange for future cooperation), or simply wishes to disseminate secret information in order to affect the news. The latter type of leak is often made anonymously.\n\nSometimes partial information is released to the media off the record in advance of a press release to \"prepare\" the press or the public for the official announcement. This may also be intended to allow journalists more time to prepare more extensive coverage, which can then be published immediately after the official release. This technique is designed to maximize the impact of the announcement. It might be considered an element of political 'spin', or news management.\n\nSome people who leak information to the media are seeking to manipulate coverage. Cloaking information in secrecy may make it seem more valuable to journalists, and anonymity reduces the ability of others to cross-check or discredit the information.\n\nSome leaks are made in the open; for example, politicians who (whether inadvertently or otherwise) disclose classified or confidential information while speaking to the press.\n\nThere are many reasons why information might be leaked. Some of these include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1759832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1759832", "title": "Non-configurational language", "text": "Non-configurational language\n\nIn generative grammar, non-configurational languages are languages characterized by a non-rigid phrase structure, which allows syntactically discontinuous expressions, and a relatively free word order. In configurational languages in contrast, the subject of a sentence is outside the finite verb phrase (VP) (directly under S below) but the object is inside it. Since there is no VP constituent in non-configurational languages, there is no structural difference between subject and object. The distinction (configurational vs. non-configurational) can exist in phrase structure grammars only. In a dependency-based grammar, the distinction is meaningless because dependency-based structures do not acknowledge a finite VP constituent.\n\nThe concept of non-configurationality was developed by grammarians working within Noam Chomsky's generative framework. Some of these linguists observed that the Syntactic Universals proposed by Chomsky and which required a rigid phrase structure was challenged by the syntax of some of the world's languages that had a much less rigid syntax than that of the languages on which Chomsky had based his studies. The concept was invented by Ken Hale who described the syntax of Warlpiri as being non-configurational. However the first to publish a description of non-configurationality was Chomsky himself in his 1981 lectures on Government and Binding, in which he referred to an unpublished paper by Hale. Chomsky made it a goal of the Government and Binding framework to accommodate languages such as Japanese and Warlpiri that apparently did not conform to his proposed language universal of Move α. Hale later published his own description of non-configurationality in Warlpiri. Katalin Kiss developed the concept of Discourse Configurationality to describe languages where constituent order is primarily determined by pragmatic factors.\n\nThe following trees illustrate the distinction:\n\nThe presence of the VP constituent in the configurational tree on the left allows one to define the syntactic relations (subject vs. object) in terms of the configuration. The subject is the argument that appears outside of the VP, but the object appears inside it. The flatter structure on the right, where there is no VP, forces/allows one to view aspects of syntax differently. More generally, Hale proposed that non-configurational languages have the following characteristics:\n\n\nHowever, it is not clear that those properties all cluster together. Languages that have been described as non-configurational include Mohawk, Warlpiri, Nahuatl and O'odham (Papago).\n\nThe analysis of non-configurational languages has been controversial among phrase structure grammars. On the one hand, much work on these languages in Principles and Parameters has attempted to show that they are in fact configurational. On the other hand, it has been argued in Lexical Functional Grammar that these attempts are flawed, and that truly non-configurational languages exist. From the perspective of syntactic theory, the existence of non-configurational languages bears on the question of whether grammatical functions like subject and object are independent of structure. If they are not, no language can be truly non-configurational.\n\nThe distinction between configurational and non-configurational languages can exist for phrase structure grammars only. Dependency grammars (DGs), since they lack a finite VP constituent altogether, do not acknowledge the distinction. In other words, all languages are non-configurational for DGs, even English, which all phrase structure grammars take for granted as having a finite VP constituent. The point is illustrated with the following examples:\n\nPhrase structure grammars almost unanimously assume that the finite VP in bold in the first sentence is a constituent. DGs, in contrast, do not see finite VPs as constituents. Both phrase structure grammars and DGs do, however, see non-finite VPs as constituents. The dependency structure of the example sentence is as follows:\n\nSince the finite VP \"will have a finite VP constituent\" does not qualify as a subtree, it is not a constituent. What this means based upon the criterion of configurationality is that this dependency structure (like all dependency structures) is non-configurational. The distinction between configurational and non-configurational has hence disappeared entirely, all languages being non-configurational in the relevant sense. Note, however, that while the finite VP is not a constituent in the tree, the non-finite VP \"have a finite VP constituent\" is a constituent (because it qualifies as a subtree).\n\nDependency grammars point to the results of standard constituency tests as evidence that finite VP does not exist as a constituent While these tests deliver clear evidence for the existence of a non-finite VP constituent in English (and other languages), they do not do the same for finite VP.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37018260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37018260", "title": "Oxis Chinese Character Finder", "text": "Oxis Chinese Character Finder\n\nThe Oxis Chinese Character Finder is an online tool (and method) for entering Chinese characters.\n\nA set of twenty-four abstract graphics is used to describe the printed form of Chinese characters. Each graphic is represented by a single ascii digit or letter, and the graphics themselves can be approximated with Chinese characters. The characters and their text equivalents are:\n\n目1 日2 罒3 夕4 口5 乂6 牛7 十8 ノ9 八A 阝B 丶D 山E 一H 丨I 亅J 长K 乚L 弓S 厂T 冂U ㄥV 人Y フZ\n\nThese are combined according to a small set of rules that can be used implicitly or shown explicitly. The main rules are: \n\n\nWhite space is designated by an underscore or a hyphen, and brackets can be used to disambiguate certain combinations. A complete character is represented by a string of ascii text.\n\nThe oxis schema is used as an input system for Chinese characters by entering part or parts of a character (optionally as a mixture of oxis text, oxis graphics, and constituent Chinese characters) to invoke all the characters in a particular set that contain these graphics in this order. The set searched can be restricted in several specific ways, for example by entering an R to find radicals only. This is currently implemented for the first 2000 Chinese characters (simplified and traditional) plus radicals in a website designed for users with slight to moderate familiarity with Chinese. It also lets users create their own searchable subsets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35695188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35695188", "title": "Proclamation of Singapore", "text": "Proclamation of Singapore\n\nThe Proclamation of Singapore is an annex of the dated 7 August 1965 between the Government of Malaysia and Government of Singapore, and on 9 August 1965 signed by the Duli Yang Maha Mulia Seri Paduka Baginda Yang di-Pertuan Agong, and, was read on the day of separation from Malaysia, on 9 August 1965 by Lee Kuan Yew Singapore prime minister declared independence of Singapore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31742711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31742711", "title": "Science Photo Library", "text": "Science Photo Library\n\nScience Photo Library (registered as Science Photo Library Limited) is a privately owned stock photography and, more recently, stock footage agency, founded. in 1981. Its headquarters are in Maida Hill, in west London, U.K..\n\nIn addition to its commercial aims, Science Photo Library uses its media to sponsor and contribute to events aimed at popularising science to children, through educational multimedia competitions, and to the wider public through exhibitions such as From Earth to the Universe as part of the International Year of Astronomy, and its 2011 collaboration with RIA Novosti to showcase archive material covering the first human spaceflight by Yuri Gagarin.\n\n"}
{"id": "13015530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13015530", "title": "The Rudiments of English Grammar", "text": "The Rudiments of English Grammar\n\nThe Rudiments of English Grammar (1761) was a popular English grammar textbook written by the 18th-century British polymath Joseph Priestley.\n\nWhile a minister for a congregation in Nantwich, Cheshire, Priestley established a local school; it was his first successful educational venture. Believing that all students should have a good grasp of English and its grammar before learning any other language, and dismayed at the quality of the instruction manuals available, Priestley wrote his own textbook: \"The Rudiments of English Grammar\" (1761). The book was very successful—it was reprinted for over fifty years. Its humor may have contributed to its popularity; for example, Priestley illustrated the \"couplet\" with this rhyme:\n\nPriestley also quoted from the most famous English authors, encouraging the middle-class association between reading and pleasure, a reading that would also, Priestley hoped, foster morality. Priestley's innovations in the teaching and description of English grammar, particularly his efforts to dissociate it from Latin grammar, made his textbook revolutionary and have led 20th century scholars to describe him as \"one of the great grammarians of his time.\" \"Rudiments\" influenced all of the major British grammarians of the late 18th century: Robert Lowth, James Harris, John Horne Tooke and even the American Noah Webster. The resounding success of Priestley's book was one of the reasons that Warrington Academy offered him a teaching position in 1761.\n\n"}
{"id": "15837496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15837496", "title": "Treatise on Ammunition", "text": "Treatise on Ammunition\n\nTreatise on Ammunition, from 1926 retitled Text Book of Ammunition, is a series of manuals detailing all British Empire military and naval service ammunition and associated equipment in use at the date of publication. It was published by the War Office at approximate 5 year intervals. As the guns are listed for which the ammunition can be used, the Treatise also constitutes a list of guns in service at the publication date.\n\nIts predecessor was \"Ammunition: A Descriptive Treatise on the Different Projectiles, Charges, Fuzes, Rockets, &c., at Present in Use for Land and Sea Service, and on Other War Stores Manufactured in the Royal Laboratory\" of 1867.\n\nThe editions contain diagrams, measurements, storage and transportation instructions useful to officers involved in storage, transport and firing of ammunition. It is an important primary source of information for military historians researching the types and capabilities of ammunition available to the British military at the time of various conflicts, and for collectors wishing to identify artifacts. However, the individual editions lack historical context, in that they omit dates and rationales for particular types and Marks of ammunition being added to or removed from the inventory.\n\nThe editions are notable for the many pages of colour lithographs of cartridges, shells and fuzes by Harrison & Sons and later by Malby & Sons.\n\nFrom the 1926 edition onwards it was renamed \"Text Book of Ammunition\".\n\nThe best known editions are the 10th, accurate as at August 1, 1914 and published in 1915 which constitutes a definitive description of the ammunition with which Britain began World War I, and the 1936 edition which lists the ammunition with which Britain entered World War II. These and other editions are available as modern facsimile reprints.\n\n"}
{"id": "1246918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1246918", "title": "Vetala", "text": "Vetala\n\nA vetala ( \"\") is a ghost-like being from Hindu mythology. The vetala are defined as spirits inhabiting cadavers and charnel grounds. These corpses may be used as vehicles for movement (as they no longer decay while so inhabited); but a vetala may also leave the body at will.Historians have established that vetala is based on an ancient character from the state of Bengal.\n\nGray (undated: c2009) provides a survey of chthonic charnel ground accoutrement motif such as skull imagery in the textual tradition of the Yogini tantras and discusses 'vetala' (Sanskrit).\n\nThe most popular vetala story is \"Baital Pachisi\". \"Vikram Aur Betaal\" was a television programme produced by Ramanand Sagar and directed by his son Prem Sagar that aired on DD National channel that was based on it. Vetala are also part of \"The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel\" and have appeared television shows such as \"Supernatural season 7 episode 11, Adventures in Babysitting\", \"Sleepy Hollow\" and \"Jekyll & Hyde\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21582247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21582247", "title": "Wapsipinicon Almanac", "text": "Wapsipinicon Almanac\n\nThe Wapsipinicon Almanac is an almanac published by Route 3 Press in Anamosa, Iowa. It is handmade on letterpress equipment by Timothy Fay and features stories, reviews, essays and poems. The first issue, published in 1988, sold out; the 2015 issue was the 22nd edition and the latest edition went on sale around January 2018. \n"}
{"id": "2846200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2846200", "title": "WebMuseum", "text": "WebMuseum\n\nThe WebMuseum, formerly known as the WebLouvre, was founded by Nicolas Pioch in France in 1994, while still a student. It is one of the earliest examples of a virtual museum. The site won the 1994 \"Best of the Web\" award for the \"Best Use of Multiple Media\".\n\nWhen the actual Louvre became aware of the original WebLouvre's existence, it was forced to change its name to the WebMuseum. However, many mirror sites were established throughout the world (including websites located in Brazil, Hungary, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Poland, Russia, UK and the United States), making it impossible to eradicate its existence. It still provides an excellent archival and educational resource of good quality art images and information, although it is no longer very actively updated.\n\nAlthough this virtual museum is French in origin, it is available in English.\n\n\n"}
