{"id": "14543243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14543243", "title": "Agriculture in Malawi", "text": "Agriculture in Malawi\n\nThe main economic products of Malawi are tobacco, tea, cotton, groundnuts, sugar and coffee. These have been among the main cash crops for the last century, but tobacco has become increasingly predominant in the last quarter-century, with a production in 2011 of 175,000 tonnes. Over the last century, tea and groundnuts have increased in relative importance while cotton has decreased. The main food crops are maize, cassava, sweet potatoes, sorghum, bananas, rice,and Irish potatoes and cattle, sheep and goats are raised. The main industries deal with agricultural processing of tobacco, tea and sugar and timber products. The industrial production growth rate is estimated at 10% (2009).\n\nAlthough Nyasaland, as the country was known before 1964, had some mineral resources, particularly coal, these were not exploited in colonial times. Without economic mineral resources, the protectorate's economy had to be based on agriculture, but in 1907 most of its people were subsistence farmers. In the mid-to-late 19th century, manioc, rice, beans and millet were grown in the Shire Valley, maize, cassava, sweet potatoes and sorghum in the Shire Highlands,and cassava, millet and groundnuts along the shores of Lake Nyasa (now Lake Malawi). These crops continued to be staple foods throughout the colonial period, although with less millet and more maize. Tobacco and a local variety of cotton were grown widely.\n\nEuropeans wrongly criticised the practice of shifting cultivation in which trees on the land to be cultivated were cut down and burnt and their ashes dug into the soil to fertilize it. The land was used for a few years after another section of land was cleared. Compared to European, North American and Asian soils many sub-Saharan African soils are low in natural fertility, being poor in nutrients, low in organic matter and liable to erosion. The best cultivation technique for such soils involves 10 to 15 years of fallow between 2 or 3 years of cultivation, the system of shifting cultivation and fallowing that was common in Nyasaland as long as there was sufficient land to practice it. Throughout the protectorate, the colonial Department of Agriculture held negative attitudes towards African agriculture, which it failed to promote and favoured European planter interests. Although in the early years of the 20th century, European estates produced the bulk of exportable cash crops directly, by the 1940s, a large proportion of many of these crops (particularly tobacco) was produced by Africans, either as smallholders on Crown land or as tenants on the estates.\n\nMost people in Nyasaland were subsistence farmers growing maize, millet and other food crops for their own consumption. Its colonial export economy had to be based on growing economic crops, but before 1907 commercial agriculture had hardly started to develop. In pre-colonial times trade was limited to the export of ivory and forest products in exchange for cloth and metals and, for the first few years of the protectorate, ivory and rubber collected from indigenous vines were the principal elements of a tiny export trade. The first estate crop was coffee, grown commercially in quantity from around 1895, but competition from Brazil which flooded the world markets by 1905 and droughts led to its decline in favour of tobacco and cotton. Both these crops had previously been grown in small quantities, but the decline of coffee prompted planters to turn to tobacco in the Shire Highlands and cotton in the Shire Valley. Tea was also first planted commercially in 1905 in the Shire Highlands, but significant development of tobacco and tea growing only took place after the opening of the Shire Highlands Railway in 1908.\n\nIn the early years of the 20th century, European estates produced the bulk of exportable cash crops directly, but by the 1930s, many of these crops, particularly tobacco and cotton, were produced by Africans, either as smallholders on Crown land or as tenants on the estates. The first estate crop was coffee, grown commercially in quantity from around 1895, but competition from Brazil after 1905 led to its decline in favour of tobacco and cotton. Both these crops had previously been grown in small quantities, but the decline of coffee prompted planters to turn to tobacco in the Shire Highlands and cotton in the Shire River Valley. Tea was also first planted commercially in 1905 in the Shire Highlands, but significant development of tobacco and tea growing only took place after the opening of the Shire Highlands Railway in 1908. During the time of the protectorate, tobacco, tea and cotton were the main export crops, but tea was the only one that remained an estate crop throughout. The main barriers to increasing exports were the high costs of transport from Nyasaland to the coast the poor quality of much of the produce and, for African farmers, the planters’ opposition to them growing cotton or tobacco in competition with the estates. \n\nThe area of Flue-cured tobacco farmed by European planters in the Shire Highlands rose from 4,500 acres in 1911 to 14,200 acres in 1920, yielding 2,500 ton of tobacco. Before 1920, only about 5% of the crop sold was dark-fired tobacco produced by African farmers, but this rose to 14% by 1924. The First World War boosted the production of tobacco, but post-war competition from United States Virginia adversely affected Nyasaland growers. Much of the tobacco produced by the European estates was a low-grade, and the decline in flue-cured tobacco intensified throughout the 1920s. Europeans produced 86% of Malawi's tobacco in 1924, 57% in 1927, 28% in 1933, but only 16% in 1936. Despite this decline, tobacco still accounted for 65-80% of exports in the years from 1921 to 1932. Formation of a Native Tobacco Board in 1926 stimulated production of fire-cured tobacco. By 1935, 70% of the national tobacco crop was grown in the Central Province where the Board had around 30,000 registered growers. At first, these farmed Crown land (also called Native Trust Land), but later estates contracted sharecropping “Visiting Tenants”. The number of growers expanded after the Second World War, so by 1950 there were over 104,500 growers planting 132,000 acres and growing 10,000 tons of tobacco; only 15,000 were in the Southern Province. About three-quarters were smallholders, the rest estate tenants. Numbers declined later, but there were still 70,000 in 1965, producing 12,000 tons.\n\nEgyptian cotton was first grown commercially by African smallholders in the upper Shire valley in 1903 and spread to the lower Shire valley and the shores of Lake Nyasa. By 1905 American Upland cotton was grown on estates in the Shire Highlands. African-grown cotton was bought by The British Central Africa Company Ltd and the African Lakes Corporation until 1912 when government cotton markets were established where a fairer price for cotton was given. After reckless planting on unsuitable land, consolidation of the planted area to 10,000 acres and improving quality increased cotton exports to a peak of 44% of total exports in 1917 when the First World Was stimulated demand. A shortage of manpower caused a post-war drop in production, with no recovery until 1924, but then reaching 2,700 tons in 1932 and a record of 4,000 tons exported in 1935. This was mainly African production in the lower Shire valley, as output from European estates became insignificant. The relative importance of cotton exports dropped from 16% of the total in 1922 to 5% in 1932, then rallied to 10% in 1941, falling to 7% in 1951. The quality of cotton produced improved from the 1950s with stricter controls on pests and, although 80% of the crop continued to be grown in the lower Shire valley, it also began to be grown in the northern shore of Lake Malawi. Production varied widely, and increasing amounts were used domestically, but at independence cotton was only the fourth most valuable export crop.\n\nTea was first exported from Nyasaland in 1904 after tea plantations were established in the high rainfall areas of Mlanje District, later extended into Cholo District. Exports steadily increased at first, and the importance of tea increased dramatically after 1934, from only 6% of total exports in 1932 to over 20% in 1935. It never fell below that level, rising to over 40% from 1938 to 1942, and in the three years 1955, 1957 and 1960 the value of tea exports exceeded that of tobacco and until the mid-1960s, Nyasaland had the most extensive area of tea cultivation in Africa. Despite its value to the protectorate's economy, the main problem with its tea on the international market was its low quality.\n\nGroundnut exports were insignificant before 1951 when they amounted to 316 tons, but a government scheme to promote their cultivation and better prices led to a rapid increase in the mid-to-late 1950s. At independence, the annual exports totalled 25,000 tons and groundnuts became Nyasaland's third most valuable export. They are also widely grown for food. In the 1930s and 1940s, Nyasaland became a major producer of Tung oil and over 20,000 acres on estates in the Shire Highlands were planted with Tung trees. However, after 1953, world prices declined and production dropped as Tung oil was replaced by cheaper petrochemical substitutes. Until the 1949 famine, maize was not exported but a government scheme then promoted it as a cash crop and 38,500 tons were exported in 1955. By independence, local demand had reduced exports to virtually nil.\n\nThe basis of estate agriculture in Nyasaland for much of the colonial period was the system of thangata which, in the early colonial period, meant that African on estates had to perform agricultural labour in lieu of the rent for a plot of land on which they could grow food. At first, estates usually required two months’ labour a year from adult men, one month for rent, the second for Hut tax. However, on some estates the obligations of labour tenants were extended. The demand for estate labour declined in the 1920s, and British Central Africa Company was the first estate owner to modify thangata. The company issued seed to African tenants so that they could grow cotton or tobacco under supervision, and then sell their crops to the company at low prices. The Natives on Private Estates Ordinance 1928 formalised this arrangement by allowing landlords to receive rents in cash, in a fixed quantity of acceptable crops or by direct labour. The term thangata applied both to rent in kind, common on tobacco and cotton estates, and to the older form of labour thangata, which persisted on the tea estates that required direct labour.\n\nBy 1946, those estate companies that had formerly relied on labour tenants for their workforce complained that thangata was virtually unenforceable, as the workers ignored their contracts with impunity and refused to pay rent. A proposed rent increase in 1953 led to further resistance, and riots in August 1953, leading to eleven dead and seventy-two injured. Following these riots, the Governor Colby urged that estate land should be acquired through voluntary purchase, and the colonial administration purchased 142,000 hectares by 1954. At independence in 1964, only 171,000 hectares of estates remained, mostly tea plantations.\n\nAt independence in 1964, the cultivable area of Malawi was estimated at 3.42 million hectares (net of the remaining estates), about 90% of which was cultivated. Most of the land in Malawi suitable for farming food crops was available at the time of independence to Malawians without an obligation to pay cash rent or provide labour services. From 1950 to the mid-1980s, Malawi exported substantial amounts of maize. Initially, this was the result of a policy change to promoting maize as a cash crop after the 1949 famine, but it continued despite later indecision on whether such surpluses should be promoted. Smallholders’ estimated average yields from local maize rose from 0.6 tonne a hectare in the 1950s to 0.8 tonne a hectare in the 1960s, then to 1.2 tonnes a hectare (1.8 tonnes with moderate fertilizer) in the 1980s. Up to the mid-1980s, Malawi was a net maize exporter; its agricultural growth rate was 6% a year between 1973 and 1982.\n\nFrom approximately 1950 to 1980 Malawi enjoyed adequate and reliable rains. Food security seemed assured and consumption exceeded production only in five years in this period, none leading to serious shortages. This supported the dual agricultural policy, developed since 1961 by Hastings Banda, first as Agriculture minister, later President, of securing food self-sufficiency through smallholder maize production and promoting cash crops, particularly tobacco on estates. However, this apparently successful dual policy faltered in the late 1970s. Banda retained control over agricultural policies as Prime Minister in 1964 and President from 1966 to 1994, so its successes or failures were primarily his. Banda recognised Malawi had few resources other than agriculture. He at first favoured smallholder agriculture, as few European-owned estates remained. However, the policy of growing Burley tobacco on estates was developed from 1968. Burley tobacco is a fairly inexpensive air-cured variety used as a filler for certain cigarettes im contrast to the more expensive flue-cured variety. In 1966, President Banda argued that customary land tenure was insecure and inhibited investment. The Customary Land Development Act, 1967 allowed the creation of agricultural leases of up to 99 years over Customary Land. Many in the Central Region were intended to grow Burley tobacco and controlled by Banda himself, or senior officials and politicians.\n\nThere were 229 mostly European-owned estates of 79,000 hectares in 1970, but 14,355 of 759,000 hectares in 1989 and their final area exceeded a million hectares. Only about 25% of the land was used in a four-year tobacco cultivation rotation. Many estates became insolvent, despite easy credit and were foreclosed by the parastatal banks. When estates were formed, former residents lost their Customary Land rights and left or became estate labourers or tenants. There were 51,000 agricultural workers (mostly on tea estates) in 1968, 181,000 in 1980 and 200,000 in 1990. Tenants replaced employees later and 675,000 estate tenants were registered in 1990 and 580,000 “squatters” lived on surplus land as a low-paid casual labour pool. Few grew all their food but relied on rations or purchases. This occupation of land by inefficient tobacco estates undermined food security.\n\nWith more intensive agricultural use, the amounts and duration of fallow were progressively reduced in more populous areas. A situation approaching continuous mono-cropping developed on many Malawian smallholdings, which placed soil fertility under gradually increasing pressure Maize monocropping without fallow or fertiliser leads to reduced yields, but even so, up to 1982 it was estimated that Malawi had sufficient arable land to meet the basic food needs of its population, if it were distributed equally. By 1992, cultivation had spread to hillsides and onto steep Rift Valley slopes where it was unsustainable. The area of smallholder maize increased 20% between 1968 and 2000 by using marginal land. Many rural smallholdings were less than two hectares in the 1960s: by the mid-1980s the average plot was hardly more than one hectare.\n\nThroughout most of the 20th century Malawi's main food crop was maize and at the end of that century, 90% of its grain was maize, which provided 56% of all calories consumed. Malawi was the world's most maize-dependent country, except for Zambia. Its traditional substitutes were cassava on the Lakeshore and sweet potatoes in the Shire floodplain. The estimated area of maize cultivation increased from around 1.3 million hectares in 1980 to over 1.6 million hectares in 2000. However, maize harvests began to fluctuate widely, from highs of about 1.5 million tonnes in 1989 and about 1.3.million tonnes in 1990 to lows of about 0.6 million tonnes and about 1994 and 0.8 million tonnes in 1992. In view of the fluctuation in maize harvests, from the 1990s crops of sweet potatoes and cassava increased the result of USAID projects to promote drought-resistant foods.\n\nThe area of cassava planted is estimated to have increased from 72,000 hectares in 1990 to over 200,000 hectares in 2001, with estimated output increasing from 168,000 tonnes in 1990 to 3.4 million tonnes in 2001. The area of sweet potatoes planted is estimated to have increased from 43,000 hectares to over 192,000 hectares between 1990 and 2001, while estimated output increased from 177,000 tonnes to 3.4 million tonnes over the same period. There is some disagreement about the magnitude of this increase, but they suggest that maize is no longer the most important crop by tonnage, although it still accounts for 60% of the area of food planted.\n\nDespite a collapse in tobacco prices in 1979, The World Bank thought growing Burley tobacco by smallholders would relieve poverty by allowing farmers to buy imported cheap maize for food. From 1987, market liberalisation allowed smallholder to grow Burley, and they could only sell it freely in 1996173. The richest 25% of smallholders earned significant amounts from Burley after liberalisation. Malawi's Burley production increased from 45,600 tonnes, all estate-grown, in 1988 to 142,200 tonnes (including 98,600 tonnes grown by smallholders) in 2000. It grew 10% of world Burley in 1992, but the market started to decline and the US dollar price of Malawian Burley halved between 1988 and 2000; its lower grades were unsaleable. Detailed surveys estimated that in 2000 10% of Malawi's rural households grew Burley tobacco using 3% of cultivable land each year. In the four-year cycle, and including the estates growing it, Burley tied-up 300,000 hectares of land that could have been used for maize, when the areas of maize plantings were some 1.6 to 1.7 million hectares. Households with sufficient land, labour, fertilizer and credit for both food and tobacco achieved only modest returns but were vulnerable to price fluctuations and bad weather. Burley was not the solution to Malawi's problems.\n\nMalawi currently has a food gap equivalent to 500,000 to 600,000 tonnes a year of maize. Attempts have been made to close this gap with other foods, but the two most likely ways to close it are either to import large quantities of maize or grow more maize. Paying for maize imports reduces Malawi's foreign currency reserves to very low levels and creates very high level of debt, and growing more maize would require massive investment.\n\nThe declared objectives of colonial Nyasaland's legislation on the production and marketing of economic crops were to increase the quantity and improve the quality of the crops, and to stabilise the income of farmers through periods of price fluctuation. However, rather than promotion, restrictions were imposed on the number of African smallholder growers and their output by registration schemes, fixing producer prices, licensing buyers and exporters and establishing commodity boards, which often had exclusive responsibility for crop production and marketing. These restrictions did not apply to the production and marketing of the crops grown on European-owned estates. The use of marketing controls allowed the Nyasaland government to increase its revenues. By offering smallholders prices that were lower than the world market prices, the colonial state indirectly taxed the smallholders, extracting large parts of their profits. Market regulations were extended food crops after the Second World War, and by the mid-1950s marketing boards controlled the trade of most African small holder produce.\n\nRegulations introduced for tobacco in 1926 and cotton in 1934 required the registration of African peasant growers, and a Native Tobacco Board (later renamed the African Tobacco Board) was created. Settler demands for the regulation of the peasant tobacco and cotton sectors were partly motivated by fears that profitable smallholder farming could reduce the availability of cheap African labour for their estates. The formation of the Native Tobacco Board stimulated African production in the Central Region, but registered growers paid heavily for it. At first, the Board charged a levy of thirty pence a hundred pounds of tobacco, 10% of the price it paid growers. In 1930, this was raised to one third of the price paid to meet increased costs. In the Second World War and after the Board recovered its costs and underpaid growers, retaining between 25% and 35% of the auction prices obtained to meet costs equal to only 15% to 20% of those prices.\n\nA Maize Control Board was formed in 1947. It was supposed to ensure that Malawi's maize supplies were maintained and to guarantee minimum prices to farmers, but it was hampered by lack of funds and its objectives were unattainable with the organisation it had. To cover the cost of a country-wide network, the Board fixed a very low buying price and sold maize at double this price. These low prices discouraged farmers from growing maize commercially, and inhibited the development of grain markets. The quantities of maize available for the home market dropped significantly at a time of growing demand caused by poor harvests in the run up to the major famine in 1949. After the 1949 famine, the MCB promoted maize production, but when world prices fell in the 1950s, it abandoned the import and export trade, and the Nyasaland administration discouraged maize production in agriculturally unsuitable areas.\n\nIn 1952, an African Produce and Marketing Board (later renamed the Agricultural Production and Marketing Board) was created with control over the marketing of African produce including maize, beans, peas, wheat, groundnuts, rice, sorghum millet, cassava and cotton seed. In 1956, the activities, powers and duties of the Maize Control, African Tobacco and Cotton Control boards were transferred to the Agricultural Production and Marketing Board. It had powers to buy smallholder surpluses, but its producer prices were biased against peasant producers and did not reflect the rise in living costs: they were so unsatisfactory that even settlers on the Legislative Council called for the revision of the Board's pricing policy.\n\nWhen Dr Hastings Banda became Agriculture Minister in 1961, these policies were little changed. The Agricultural Production and Marketing Board was replaced by the Farmers Marketing Board (FMB) in 1962, and European Board members were replaced by growers’ representatives. The Farmers Marketing Board was given wide powers to buy, sell and process farm products, promote price stability and subsidise seed and fertilizer.\n\nDuring the first years after independence in 1964, Banda and the governing Malawi Congress Party actively supported the smallholder farming sector, as few European-owned estates remained. Banda recognised Malawi had few resources other than agriculture. He was an interventionist, and Farmers Marketing Board became an aggressive purchaser of smallholders’ produce. However, disappointing smallholder production and the development of a policy of growing Burley tobacco on estates caused the government to transfer land to the estate sector. The activities of the FMB were widened to include participation in business ventures, and accumulate investment funds, competition in marketing African food crops was restricted and the monopoly strengthened.\n\nIn 1971, the FMB was replaced by the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC). ADMARC was given the new power to assist any public or private organization with capital, credit or other resources in any projects relating to the economic development of Malawi. Its objectives were to increase the volume of exportable economic crops and improve their quality, to promote the consumption of Malawian agricultural produce abroad and to support smallholder farmers. It took over the FMB monopolies over maize, tobacco and cotton, and its powers to fix prices, operate markets and supply credit. Smallholders supported ADMARC's high operating costs and much of its profits came from underpaying them, but it only re-invested 5% of funds in smallholder farms. Transferring resources away from smallholders to the state led to corruption and abuse of office. ADMARC subsidised tobacco estates and other businesses, and by the mid-1980s, it diverted two-thirds of its income into these estates. The main beneficiaries of this strategy were the political elite who controlled the tobacco estates food and ADMARC employees. In 1979, when tobacco prices collapsed, it was threatened by liquidity problems, and by 1985, it was insolvent.\n\nFrom 1971, ADMARC subsidised fertilizer for every farmer, but tobacco estates benefited most, as tobacco needed more fertilizer than maize. Estates also had access to credit without which few smallholders could afford even subsidised fertilizer. The Malawi government agreed to partially privatise it to obtain World Bank loans, but the World Bank required an phased elimination of fertilizer subsidies. A complete withdrawal of subsidies prevented 75% of smallholders buying fertilizer in 1988/89, so temporary subsidies were provided up to 1994/95. The partial privatisation left ADMARC with limited funds to supply fertilizer and seed to smallholders, and the closure of many of its depots hindered distribution. An increase in maize producer prices in 1988 did not compensate farmers who had previously grown hybrid maize for their lost subsidies, so many reverted to growing local maize without fertilizer. ADMARC's weakness led to increased consumer prices, reduced food security and a food crisis in 1991-92.\n\nAfter the World Bank inspired partial privatisation in 1987, ADMARC was short of funds to provide services. Despite market liberalisation, few private traders emerged, and maize markets were disrupted and Malawi became increasingly dependent on imported maize. The World Bank criticised the losses it made on imported maize, and in 1996, it required the creation of an agency independent of government influence to control grain imports. ADMARC kept control over domestic grain and started selling the domestic reserves to meet its debts. ADMARC continued selling its reserves in 2000, and in 2001 despite a poor harvest. The failure to prevent food shortages caused deaths from hunger and related diseases, mainly in 2002.\n\nThe World Bank disliked ADMARC being under political control and proposed that it should only keep its core agricultural marketing operations and only provide marketing services in those outlying areas of the country with limited private sector competition: these reforms were implemented from 2006 on. The private sector lacked the capacity to provide competitive marketing services. It was unable to store enough of grain to meet food needs in the lean season, unwilling to buy maize from smallholders in remote rural areas and without the capacity to import sufficient maize during national shortfalls to maintain prices. As Malawian maize markets did not act competitively, state intervention through ADMARC was needed, and it remained as a residual buyer and seller. At the peak of liberalisation in 2002/03, there were only 180 ADMARC outlets. By 2009/10, the number of ADMARC-operated markets had grown to 788, and in 2010/11 the figure rose to 904. It remains under the control of politicians, and this has led to claims of corruption and the public perception that ADMARC does not act in the best interests of those it is meant to assist. ADMARC expanded in the decade after 2002 and still exists because of the failure of the agro-dealer programme to create an efficient private sector marketing system. \n\nThe International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Trade Organization (WTO), and Group of Eight (G8) were all actively interested and involved with the Malawi case. To create a stable economy and a government which the first world can work with the IMF employed SAPs (Structural Adjustment Policies) to restructure the country. This interjection by so many global organizations show how the period from 1990 - 2012 was one of neo-colonialism. These global institutions primarily follow the guidance and objectives of the first world. Malawi demonstrates the \"economic imperialism\". which these institutions created. The infrastructures employed through SAPs are modified to insure dependency on the first world and create a distinction between the levels of development. The restrictions of power put on Malawi eliminated rhea prosperity of the middle class. No real transfer of power to legitimate African authorities has ever been conducted since the end of colonialism. which consistently undermines the real interests of the state. The Colonialism Reparations movement emphasize the neo-colonist regime which is taking place in Malawi and other African states. It is a movement which is increasing in its legitimacy throughout the world.\n\nSeasonal hunger was common in pre-colonial and early colonial times, and gave rise to several coping strategies such as growing secondary crops like millet or sweet potatoes in case the maize crop failed, gathering wild food or relying on support from family or friends. In a purely peasant economy, farmers grow food primarily for their families’ needs. They normally have only small surpluses to store or for sale and little money to buy food in a time of shortage, even if it was available in any market. There were no significant markets, as any surplus grain not stored would be bartered for livestock or passed to dependents. If drought coincided with warfare, famine could be catastrophic, as in the great 1861-63 famine in southern Malawi, when 90% of the population of some villages died of starvation or disease, or through war. However, seasonal shortages occurred in most years and droughts ever six years on average. The imposition of colonial rule itself caused local food shortages, sometimes amounting to famine, where villages were burned and cattle killed. There were several significant famine in the first half of the 20th century, including one in the lower valley of the Shire River, an area which frequently experienced shortages, in 1903. Low rainfall in 1900-01, 1918 and 1920–21 and 1922 caused severe drought in the south and centre of the country, while in 1926 crops were destroyed by flooding. There was also distress in the north nearKasungu in 1924-25 and around Mzimba in 1938, and the shores of Lake Malawi suffered food shortages almost annually in the 1930s. However, for the first 50 years of colonial rule, much of the country fared better that the drier areas of southern Tanganyika, eastern Northern Rhodesia or Mozambique, where famine was endemic. The colonial authorities also provided some famine relief by moving maize from districts with surpluses to those with shortages and making free issues to children, the old and destitute, but they were reluctant to issue free relief to the able-bodied. After the great famine ended in 1863, despite regular seasonal hunger and high levels of chronic malnutrition, as well as acute episodes of food shortage and famine, there was no \"famine that kills\" until 1949.\n\nMarkets where food was exchangeable for cash were established during the colonial era, although, as long Malawi as was largely agricultural, its markets remained rudimentary. It is likely that introduction of a market economy eroded several pre-colonial survival strategies and eventually created an underclass of the chronically malnourished poor. However, some coping strategies were in use up to the 1950s, including growing secondary crops like millet or sweet potatoes in case the maize crop failed, gathering wild food or relying on support from family or friends. The older strategies were supplemented by the use of cash to make good food deficits, whether it was earned directly, remitted by a migrant worker relative or borrowed. Many families could grow sufficient food for normal subsistence; other rural families contained the “traditional” poor. These include the aged, disabled and widows as well as some female-headed families that were unable to cultivate sufficient land for their families’ subsistence. However, the ranks of impoverished female-headed families were swelled by families of absent migrant workers if they did not receive cash remittances, a new and non-traditional group of the poor. Insecure rent-paying tenant families or sharecroppers required to concentrate on farming economic crops might lack land for subsistence cultivation, face the economic drains of paying rent and taxes or receive an inadequate payment for their produce, leaving them vulnerable to food insecurity. It is probable that rapid social and economic changes took place in Central and East Africa in the late pre-colonial and early colonial periods. Some individuals found new opportunities to increase their wealth and status, but others (particularly women) lost a degree of their former security and became marginalised.\n\nThe 1949 famine was centered on the Shire Highlands and around the shores of Lake Malawi and, as the last major famine in this area was in 1926, it was unexpected and unprepared for. The rains failed in December and again in March: the worst affected areas had less than half their normal rain. The maize crop was only 65 to 70% of the normal harvests of 1950 and 1951 and was preceded by two quite poor harvests, which reduced smallholders’ reserves. Government and mission employees, many urban workers and some estate tenants received free or subsidised food or food on credit, but those less able to cope and those already in poverty suffered most. Traditionally, rural women in Nyasaland shared food with their neighbours and distant relatives, and this continued in the early stages of the 1949 famine. However, as it progressed, food was only shared with close family members, not remoter relatives, and the old, the young and widows, deserted wives or the wives of absent migrant workers were excluded from food sharing. The term “ganyu\" originally meant the food or beer given to neighbours in appreciation of their help with agricultural tasks. However,its use as the term for the work a poor person did for food or cash for more prosperous neighbours arose in the mid-1950s, in response to the 1949-50 famine. In 1949 and 1950, 25,000 tons of food were imported to counteract the famine, although initial deliveries were delayed. The official mortality figure was 100 to 200 deaths, but the true number of may have been higher, and there was severe food shortage and hunger in 1949 and 1950. A detailed study of this famine concluded that large areas of uncultivated land on private estates in the Shire Highlands were not available to African cultivators, who lived on overcrowded Crown Land, where growing tobacco competed with food crops, creating food insecurity. The formation if a Maize Control Board, established in 1947 may also have worsened the situation. Although it was set up to guarantee minimum prices, even in years of surpluses and paying the same prices in remote areas as in accessible ones, it hoped to create a grain reserve against famine. However, when it was set up, most Malawian families grew their own food, and the few urban and plantation workers could be supplied locally. This, and the Maize Control Board's policy of keeping prices low through concerns about over-producing maize inhibited commercial grain markets developing. Its first years of operation, 1947 and 1948 coincided with poor harvests, and in those years it bought a less than half its estimated requirements in those years. Following the famine, the production of tobacco in the affected areas decreased and Maize Control Board prices for maize were increased. The Maize Control Board had purchased just over 7,000 tons if maize in 1948: its successors purchased 30,000 tons in 1964 and 128,000 tons in 1979, showing that Malawi's maize trade was under-developed in 1949.\n\nNo famines occurred for over forty years after 1949: from approximately 1950 to 1980 Malawi, like much of inter-tropical Africa, enjoyed adequate and reliable rains. Food security seemed assured: the only years when consumption exceeded production were in 1963, 1970, 1975, 1976 and 1980 and none were as serious as 1949 or later shortages. In 1961, in the approach to independence, the colonial-era marketing boards were replaced by the Farmers Marketing Board with wide powers to buy, sell and process farm products, promote price stability and subsidise seed and fertilizer prices. Before 1969, it made no profits from its purchasing monopoly, but after this the Farmers Marketing Board and its successor, the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), created in 1971, profited significantly. Smallholders had to support the high operating costs of ADMARC, much of whose income came from underpaying them. ADMARC only re-invested 5% of funds in smallholder farms, but subsidised tobacco estates, so that by the mid-1980s, it diverted two-thirds of its income to estates. Until 1979, it had sound finances: when tobacco prices collapsed, its lack of liquidity threatened its main creditors, Malawi's two commercial banks. From 1980, Malawi's rainfall tended to decrease and fall for shorter periods. As its rural population grew, food production only exceeded consumption in 1993 and annual maize consumption fell from 240 kilos in the 1960s to 160 kilos in the 1990s: this deficiency was only remedied by large increases in the root crop harvest after 1995. There was a paradox: Malawi's maize exports indicated food sufficiency, but increasing malnutrition did not.\n\nSmallholders were discouraged from growing tobacco in favour of maize. Growing maize as a cash crop requires reasonable sale prices, low input costs (particularly fertilizer) and farmers having some financial reserves. Farm incomes were declining by 1976 and, from 1981 to 1986, the real value of Malawi maize producer prices fell to 40% to 60% of those of other Central and East African states. Even with low fertilizer prices, maize growing was difficult. From 1971, ADMARC subsidised fertilizer prices for every farmer. Estates benefited most, as tobacco needs more fertilizer than maize, and few smallholders could buy enough fertilizer, even if subsidised. After 1985, declining world tobacco prices and supporting the estates made ADMARC insolvent. The Malawi government agreed to partially privatise it to obtain World Bank loans, which required a phased but complete elimination of fertilizer subsidies. These subsidies decreased from 30.5% in 1983/84 to nothing in 1988/89, which prevented most smallholders from buying fertilizer. Between 1989/90 and 1994/95, subsidies were twice restored and twice removed. Privatisation left ADMARC short of funds to supply fertilizer and seed to smallholders, and it was unable to give credit. All these factors increased the possibility of food shortages and lessened the ability of government or smallholders to cope with them. After its privatisation, ADMARC had to support Mozambican refugees, who numbered over 500,000 by 1988, but it could not replenish its stocks from the poor harvests of the late 1980s. Cassava pests, rare before 1987, severely depleted this main alternative to maize. It only needed a significant fall in rainfall to cause a crisis.\n\nMalawi's rainfall in 1989-90 and 1990-91 was at best moderate and locally poor. Smallholder food reserves were depleted before the deeper crisis in 1991-92. Rainfall before planting in 1991 was low and sporadic; withdrawing fertilizer subsidies made a poor harvest poorer. Only 40% of the normal maize crop was gathered in 1992. The famines of the 1990s represent exceptional food shortfalls within longer periods of increasing shortages. Although rainfall or agricultural output data do exist for 1991 and 1992, there are few contemporary accounts of a 1992 famine. This is because President Banda suppressed discussion about food insecurity and information on malnutrition. After he was voted from office a better-documented drought occurred in 1993-94. J Milner, (2004). Agriculture and Rural Development in Malawi: the Role of Policies and Policy Processes, p 42. There are no generally available or accepted figure for famine deaths in 1992. Apart from the lack of rainfall, the main causes of famine in the 1990s include the state regulation of agriculture and the distortions caused by diverting resources to inefficient estates and failure to support smallholders growing food crops. This intensified pressure on food-growing land without providing an alternative way for poorer Malawians to earn a living' as ADMARC failed to pay reasonable prices for the crops that farmers had to grow. Although the withdrawal of fertilizer subsidies exacerbated agricultural decline, its seeds lay in government policies since 1968 or earlier. Many poorer tenants and squatters relied on food-for-work arrangements or casual paid labour on the estates to supplement the limited food they could grow, and this short-term rural casual work paid for in kind called ganyu became a way of life for an increasing number of poorer Malawians.\n\nAfter erratic rainfall and poor harvests in 1997 and 1998 maize stocks were low and consumer prices: ADMARC had to release reserves and import maize to prevent famine. However, both the 1999 and 2000 harvests were excellent, at over 2 million tonnes of maize, with large sweet potato and cassava crops. However, it appeared that Southern Africa was entering a decade of subnormal rains and 1997 and 1998 were a foretaste of this. The harvests of 2001, 2002 and 2003 were disappointing, that of 2004 was severely deficient in maize and in root crops; the next satisfactory harvest was in 2005. Average rainfall was light in the 2000/01 and 2003/04 growing seasons, locally high in 2001/02 and 2002/03: it was characterised by too much or too little rain at the wrong time or place. Between 2001 and 2004, Malawi produced more food in than in 1992 or 1994, but as its population was much higher, more maize had to be imported, and difficulty obtaining imports created internal food shortages in these years. Rural poverty increased and by 2005, about 14% of Malawian adult were HIV positive. Disabilities and deaths from AIDS may have discouraged growing labour-intensive tobacco or maize in favour of cassava, reducing family incomes and coping resources. \n\nPoor families were those with less than one hectare of land, or whose adults consumed less than 200 kilos of maize each year; they formed 55% of the population in 1989, including most smallholders. This included 20% of families with less than half a hectare or adults eating less than 133 kilos of maize (the ultra-poor). By 2003, 72% were poor, 41% ultra-poor: many were estate labourers or tenants, or in female-headed households. Many were malnourished, consuming only 1,818 daily calories (1,165 calories for the ultra-poor). Families with half a hectare or less relied on casual labouring (often food-for-work, termed \"ganyu\") and with those dispossessed by estate formation made up a virtually landless underclass. In congested parts of the Shire Highlands, the poorest 65% had only 0.2 hectare. As 95% of all suitable, and some marginal, land was already cultivated, land shortages could only intensify. Labour and fertilizer shortages or costs prevented poor households from growing Burley tobacco. For these, market liberalisation removed the safety net that subsidies had previously given. As fertilizer costs increased, in poor years the earnings of many smaller Burley growers did not meet the costs of production or allow purchases of extra food. Most tobacco growers reserved only 0.3 to 0.5 hectare to grow food, insufficient for family needs in some years.\n\nAfter the 1992 famine, foreign aid was made conditional on re-establishing political liberalisation. The privatised ADMARC received limited state funding to create a Strategic Grain Reserve of 180,000 tonnes to stabilise prices for farmers and consumers and had to use commercial loans to import large quantities of maize each year in the 1990s. From 1997, after criticism from the World Bank that ADMARC was subsidising imports of maize, ADMARC lost responsibility for this, controlling only domestically-produced grain. The Malawi government required it to buy domestic maize at a fixed minimum price to support farmers, and this forced ADMARC to sell its strategic reserve in 1997, and again in 2000 to pay off its commercial loans, creating insecurity.\n\nAlthough universal fertilizer subsidies had been abolished in 1995, the Malawi government arranged for 2.86 million smallholders to receive free Starter Packs both in 1998 and 1999. Each contained enough hybrid maize seed and fertilizer to plant 0.1 hectare and produce between 125 and 175 kilos of maize, enough to feed a family for a month. Perhaps unfortunately, the 1999 and 2000 harvests were good and foreign aid donors criticised the scheme which, although it added an estimated 499,000 tonnes and 354,000 tonnes respectively to those two maize harvests, did not target only the poorest smallholders, and cost as much for each pack as the market value of the maize produced. A Targeted Inputs Programme (TIP) of maize seed and a little fertilizer was aimed at the very poor in 2001 and 2002, but 1.5 million TIP packs each year produced little maize because they were issued too late in the planting season. Although Starter Packs had been withdrawn just before these two years of poor harvests, delays and bad weather were the main causes of food shortages not reducing pack numbers or content.\n\nMalawi was increasingly dependent on imported maize in deficit years, but ADMARC had started selling domestic reserves in 2000, the year after a good harvest, but continued in 2001: some maize was exported at low prices. Failure to prevent food shortages is shown by estimated deaths from hunger and related diseases', for which there was a credible report of over 1,000 deaths, compared to the 100 to 200 estimated for 1949. Although 1992 famine deaths were not fully reported, they were probably far less than in 2002. The IMF identified four main areas for improving food security: improving transparency by external audit, removing price distortions and reducing costs. However, the biggest threat to food security was Malawi's reliance on maize, not a drought-resistant crop. \nFollowing a bad maize harvest in 2005, almost five million of Malawi's 13 million people needed emergency food aid during the Malawian food crisis. Bingu wa Mutharika, Malawi's newly elected president, decided to subsidize agricultural inputs such as fertilizer by reinstating and increasing fertilizer subsidies despite skepticism from the United States and Britain.\nMalawi's soil is depleted, like that of other local countries. Many of its farmers could not afford fertilizer at the then-current market prices. Bingu wa Mutharika declared he did not get elected to rule a nation of beggars. After initially failing to persuade the World Bank and other donors to help subsidize green revolution inputs, the president decided to spend $58 million from Malawi's own reserves to provide seeds and fertilizers to the poorest farmers.The World Bank eventually endorsed a scheme to allow the poorest 1.3 million farm families to buy three kilograms of hybrid maize and two 50-kilogram bags of fertilizer at a third of the market price. Following a bumper harvest in 2007, Malawi sold more maize to the World Food Program of the United Nations than any other southern Africa country, and exported hundreds of thousands of tons of corn to Zimbabwe. The success of these subsidies caused some re-examination of the role of agriculture in helping poor in Africa, and of government investment in basic components of farming, such as fertilizer, improved seed, farmer education, credit and agricultural research. Despite this, the UN Food and Agriculture Agency recorded that in the period 2010-12, 23.1% of the population were under-nourished, almost the same percentage was recorded for the whole period from 2004 to 2009, and only a slight fall from the 26.8% in 1999-2001 \n\nAlthough Malawi enjoyed ample rains in early 2011 and a good harvest, long spells of dry weather in January and February 2012 caused reduced food crop production in parts of central and southern Malawi, which resulted in food deficits in poor households in the areas affected, requiring humanitarian support from December 2012. These food deficits required the release of 47,600 tonnes of maize from the government Strategic Grain Reserve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57098871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57098871", "title": "Alan Howard (nutritionist)", "text": "Alan Howard (nutritionist)\n\nAlan Howard gained a MA in natural sciences and PhD in immunology at Downing College Cambridge. He then trained as a nutritionist at the Medical Research Council's Dunn Nutritional Laboratory also in Cambridge. His lifelong research interests are in the field of nutrition, initially in the nutritional relationships associated with coronary heart disease and the treatment of obesity and latterly into eye and brain nutrition. His inventions and patents related to Very Low Calorie Diets enabled him to establish the Howard Foundation. which has made significant donations to Downing College Cambridge, the Waterford Institute of Technology and in sponsoring continued academic research\n\nHoward passed the Eleven-plus exam in 1940 and won a place at the City of Norwich School where he specialised in Chemistry. His other interests included photography, cycling and ballroom dancing.\n\nHoward won a scholarship to Downing College Cambridge in 1948 to read Natural Sciences (Chemistry, Physics, Metallurgy and Mathematics). For his PhD he worked in the Department of Medicine with Robin Coombs, a notable immunologist. Howard's thesis was on \"The reaction of diazonium compounds with amino-acids and proteins and its application to serological problems\".\n\nHoward's academic career covered periods:\n\n\nIn November 2018, Downing College commemorated the formal entry of Alan Howard as a student at Downing on 4th November 1948 with an entry on their website.\n\nAt the MRC Unit, Howard began working on experimental atherosclerosis. He continued this study while at the Department of Pathology and was secretary for the first International Symposium On Atherosclerosis held in Athens in 1966 and was an editor of the proceedings. The Proceedings of the XII International Symposium on Atherosclerosis held in Stockholm 25–29 June 2000 contain two papers reviewing the significance of the first symposium: \"The First International Symposium on Atherosclerosis in Athens 1966\" by Alan N. Howard and \"The significance and importance of the Athens Symposium\" by M. Daria Haust.\n\nWhile at the Department of Pathology and through working with another local company, Spillers Ltd, Howard started doing clinical trials on the high-protein “Cambridge Formula Loaf”. Collaborating with several local GPs and using brown bread as a control, he found that people lost more weight while on the Cambridge Loaf together with a low-calorie diet. This work was published in a paper in The General Practitioner \n(the forerunner of the current British Journal of General Practice and was used commercially until Spillers closed its manufacturing plant.\n\nThis led to Howard becoming secretary to the newly formed Obesity Association (aka The Obesity Society of Great Britain and now the Association for the Study of Obesity (ASO)). Founded in 1967 to promote obesity research in the UK, the association was chaired by Ian MacLean Baird from the West Middlesex Hospital. In 1968, the society held its first International Symposium in London. The proceedings were edited by Baird and Howard.\nHoward became secretary and later chairman of The Food Education Society from 1970 until 1990. Howard co-authored a book which was published by the BBC in 1978 and was invited to take part in the BBC series \"Don't just sit there\" in July 1980.\n\nHoward and George A. Bray (from the University of California) organised the first International Congress on Obesity (ICO) which was held at the Royal College of Physicians in London in October 1974, and attracted over 500 attendees from 30 countries. They were also the founding co-editors of The International Journal of Obesity (IJO) which began in 1977. These early initiatives led in 1985/86 to the formation of the International Association for the Study of Obesity which since 2014 is known simply as World Obesity\n\nWhile in the Department of Medicine at Cambridge University, Howard's team ran a longstanding \"lipid clinic\" at Addenbrookes Hospital between 1973 and 1980. This was one of six European centres where the Dutch company Organon International sponsored research and clinical trials. Howard collaborated with Ian MacLean Baird, then a consultant at West Middlesex Hospital, to devise a low-calorie diet formula designed for morbidly obese patients. This was initially named “Howard's Diet”.\n\nAlso in 1973, Howard began to direct Dennis Jones, a nutritionist and specialist in food chemistry from Organon, to convert the research concept into a commercially viable formulation. In 1979, it emerged in the US as The Cambridge Diet\nThe patents of which Howard was a co-inventor were initially licensed to a Californian company, Cambridge Plan International (CPI), who, from 1980, marketed the formula in the US as the 'Cambridge Diet'. This was sold initially by mail order and subsequently through network marketing and a \"Cambridge Counsellor\" system. Whilst this led to rapid growth, CPI encountered issues which led to it filing for Chapter 11 administration in 1983.\n\nIn 1982, Howard, his son Jon and Howard's brother Roger formed the Cambridge Manufacturing Company Ltd.\n\nAs a result, from 1984 to 1986 there were two competing \"Cambridge Diets\" in existence, as CPI had separately launched in various countries internationally, including a pre-launch in UK.\n\nIn 1986 a Howard Foundation company bought out CPI's international rights, and the 'Cambridge Diet' has remained a separate organisation in the US.\n\nIn 1985, Howard and John Marks wrote a book “The Cambridge Diet – A Manual for Health Professionals” published by Jonathan Cape in 1986 with a forward by Ivor H Mills, then Professor of Medicine at the University of Cambridge. The forward to the later edition in 1997, published by Cambridge Export Limited, was written by John Butterfield, formerly Regius Professor of Physic at the University of Cambridge. The book was translated into Danish as 'Cambridgekuren' for use in the Scandinavian market.\n\nFrom 1985 to the late 1980s, the Cambridge Diet was strongly promoted in the UK by Howard using direct marketing and thereafter, mainly through distributors, in various Northern European countries and around the world. The Polish website for the Cambridge Weight Plan contains an interview with Dr Howard in which he discusses the background to the Cambridge Diet\n\nIn the early 2000s the manufacturing company at Corby, Northants became the group headquarters for the UK and export functions.\n\nIn 2005 Howard directed that the remaining business be sold through a management buyout. The company changed its name to the Cambridge Weight Plan and continues as a successful employee-owned trust\n\nHoward established Howard Foundation Research (HFR) in 1986 to carry out scientific research into low-calorie diets under the direction of Stephen Kreitzman. HFR has published numerous scientific papers, most notably a 1993 monograph \"The Swansea Trial\" edited by Dr S N Kreitzman and Dr A Howard. In 2000 Howard directed Howard Foundation Research Ltd be sold under licence to managers who devised the Lipotrim programme to allow the formula to be prescribed privately by health practitioners in UK and Ireland.\n\nIn 1991, Howard established the COAG Trace Elements Laboratory. Based at Papworth Hospital, near Cambridge. The COAG Laboratory ran until 2000 carrying out research into aspects of nutrition and health, especially the prevention of coronary heart disease. When the laboratory closed, the equipment was transferred to the University of Ulster and the Poznan University of Medical Sciences, for the continuation of research programmes.\n\nIn 1990, Howard started work with Dr Richard Bone and Dr. John Landrum at Florida International University (FIU). Together they patented a formulation containing Meso-zeaxanthin, lutein and zeazanthen, manufactured by IOSA in Monterey, Mexico, and sold in Europe as Macucheck and in North America as Macuhealth. Its purpose was to prevent age-related macular degeneration (AMD).\n\nIn 2009, Howard began working with the Macular Pigment Research Group (MPRG) at the Waterford Institute of Technology in Ireland. In 2015, the Howard Foundation established Prof John Nolan, principal investigator at the MPRG, as the Howard Chair in Human Nutrition with tenure for 10 years\n\nIn June 2018, Howard and Nolan were co-authors of a paper in the Journal of Alzheimer's Disease that reported the results of a small 18 month study by the MPRG that showed improvements in the health of Alzheimer's patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "52433221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52433221", "title": "Alison Tedstone", "text": "Alison Tedstone\n\nAlison Tedstone RNutr FAfN (born April 1961) is Chief Nutritionist (National Director of Diet & Obesity) at Public Health England (PHE).\n\nShe was born Alison Tedstone. She has a BSc and PhD from the University of London. She conducted research into nutrition at the University of Oxford.\n\nShe is a Registered Public Health Nutritionist. She is a founding fellow of the Association for Nutrition (AfN).\n\nShe was an academic at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.\n\nShe joined the Food Standards Agency (FSA) in 2001, working there until 2010, becoming Head of Nutrition Science.\n\nShe became Chief Nutritionist at PHE. Work includes the National Diet and Nutrition Survey. she gives evidence to the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN).\n\nShe married Alan Penn in the 1980s in Worcestershire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10216334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10216334", "title": "Alvarez' syndrome", "text": "Alvarez' syndrome\n\nAlvarez' syndrome is a medical disorder in which the abdomen becomes bloated without any obvious reason, such as intestinal gas. It may be caused when the muscles of the superior abdominal wall contract and push the contents of the abdomen inferiorly and anteriorly. It may be a psychogenic disorder. It was discovered by and named for Walter C. Alvarez in the late 1940s.\n"}
{"id": "23900272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23900272", "title": "Bailey-Boushay House", "text": "Bailey-Boushay House\n\nBailey-Boushay House, founded June 24, 1992, is an inpatient long-term care facility and outpatient day health program for people with HIV/AIDS in Seattle, Washington, USA. It is an affiliate of Virginia Mason Medical Center.\nBailey-Boushay House was the first inpatient hospice facility for AIDS patients in the United States. It was founded by Betsy Lieberman and Christine Hurley of AIDS Housing of Washington with support from sources including Virginia Mason Medical Center, Boeing, Nordstrom, Weyerhaeuser, the Northwest AIDS Foundation, and an anonymous donation of $100,000 via the Archdiocese of Seattle. The facility was created as a response to the lack of skilled nursing facilities available for AIDS patients. Its planned location in the Madison Valley neighborhood drew opposition due to concerns about the proposed outpatient population. At the time, a member of the facility's opposition was on the board of the Seattle Art Museum. In May 1990, the Seattle chapter of ACT UP scheduled a shutdown of the museum construction site to show support for local AIDS patients, but two days before the shutdown the opposition relented. The facility was named after Seattle publisher Thatcher Bailey, a founding donor, and his partner Frank Boushay, who died of AIDS in 1989. Bailey-Boushay House was dedicated on January 12, 1992. By 1992, over 2,000 cases of AIDS had been diagnosed in King County, with 90% of the cases present in men who have sex with men. In the first years at Bailey-Boushay, patients would often arrive from hospitals only a few days before their death from AIDS-related complications.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the photographers Saul Bromberger and Sandra Hoover documented the daily life of Bailey-Boushay patients, and their work was published in Mother Jones magazine on World AIDS Day in 2014.\n\nEvery year on Valentine's Day, Bailey-Boushay House used to place hundreds of red balloons on the outside of their facility to officially thank the community for their support.\n\nAs of 2017, due to the significant decrease in death rates from HIV/AIDS due to antiretroviral therapy, the 35-bed inpatient program at Bailey-Boushay House serves patients with a variety of life-threatening diagnoses, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Huntington's disease, providing long-term, respite, and end-of-life care. The outpatient day health program serves patients with HIV who are homeless, and/or capable of living independently in the community but require medication management and social support. Bailey-Boushay House plans to open a 50-bed overnight shelter to promote housing stability for its outpatient clients, with a projected opening date of November 1st, 2018.\n\nOver the past two years, the Daily Outpatient Program has exploded from 100 outpatients to over 400 outpatients. This fact, combined with the complexities of opening a new overnight shelter for the homeless, is causing prolonged increasing strain to the Daily Outpatient Program, resulting in the loss of events regularly provided to benefit the Outpatients' health and enriching their lives [as of Oct. 2018].\n\n"}
{"id": "45682271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45682271", "title": "Beacon UK", "text": "Beacon UK\n\nBeacon UK is a private provider of mental health services launched in the UK in September 2011 by Dr Emma Stanton, a practising NHS psychiatrist at the South London and Maudsley NHS Trust.\n\nBeacon Health Strategies was established in 1996 in the USA by Elizabeth Pattullo developing publicly funded mental health managed care programs – starting with Boston, Massachusetts. The company does not directly deliver mental health care, but attempts to act as an “integrator”, coordinating mental health services from different health and social care providers to ensure care effectively meets the needs of each person with mental health conditions.\n\nStanton was named as one of the Health Service Journal's most inspirational women in health and one of their Top Innovators. She is a former adviser to Sir Liam Donaldson and co-founded Diagnosis, a clinical leadership social enterprise. From 2010-11, she had a Harkness Fellowship. She is an advocate of outcomes measurement in healthcare, something which is novel in mental health. She is quoted by the NHS Confederation as saying: “Measuring care and outcomes in mental health is often put in the ‘too difficult’ box yet capturing data on whether people have homes to live in, jobs to go to, appropriate medication, financial stability and social interactions are possible for other conditions so why not for people with mental health problems too.” Beacon recommends treatment at home through teams of doctors, nurses and social workers, not through hospital admission.\n\nBeacon analysed data supplied by Improving Access to Psychological Therapies providers in 2012.\n\nBeacon UK is part of the Forward Thinking Birmingham consortium which has been selected to deliver mental health services across the city of Birmingham from October 2015. The contract agreed with Birmingham South Central Clinical Commissioning Group requires the consortium to deliver services for children, adolescents and adults under 25 over five years. Community mental health services for children and young people aged 0-25 were criticised by the Care Quality Commission in its report on children's services in the city in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28108497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28108497", "title": "British Columbia Medical Journal", "text": "British Columbia Medical Journal\n\nThe British Columbia Medical Journal is a peer-reviewed general medical journal covering scientific research, review articles, and updates on contemporary clinical practices written by British Columbian physicians or focused on topics likely to be of interest to them, such as columns from the BC Centre for Disease Control and the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia. Although published by the Doctors of BC professional association, it maintains distance from the association in order to encourage open debate. It hosts an online database of all issues from 2000. The current editor-in-chief is David R. Richardson.\n\nThe journal publishes 10 issues per year, with combined issues in January/February and July/August.\n\nThe journal was originally known as the \"Vancouver Medical Association Bulletin\" and was published by the Vancouver Medical Association (VMA) for 34 years, from October 1924 until January 1959.\n\nIn its early years, the journal relied heavily on advertiser supporting. In 1957, as this income had begun to decline, the VMA and the BCMA entered into an agreement to restructure the publication, including its retitling, with BCMA paying to sustain the financially troubled journal. The first issue under the \"British Columbia Medical Journal\" title was released in January 1959. In January 1963, in response to continued decreasing advertiser support, the BCMA took over the journal completely.\n\nJerry Wong has been the cover artist for the \"British Columbia Medical Journal\" since 1982.\n\nThe \"British Columbia Medical Journal\" is an open access journal. All articles from 2000 onwards are archived on the journal's web site.\n\nThe \"British Columbia Medical Journal\" welcomes article submissions from student authors, and each year awards a prize of $1000 for the best article written by a medical student in the province of British Columbia. The prize honors John Henry MacDermot (1883–1969), who became the editor of the \"Vancouver Medical Bulletin\" at its formation in 1924, remaining at the helm until 1967, when he retired.\n"}
{"id": "40729268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40729268", "title": "Capital punishment in Lithuania", "text": "Capital punishment in Lithuania\n\nCapital punishment in Lithuania was ruled unconstitutional and abolished for all crimes in December 1998. Lithuania is a member of the European Union and the Council of Europe and has signed and ratified Protocol 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights on complete abolition of death penalty. From March 1990 to December 1998, Lithuania executed seven men. The last execution in the country occurred in July 1995, when Lithuanian mafia boss Boris Dekanidze was put to death.\n\nIn the Lithuanian SSR, the criminal code provided for death penalty in 16 articles. After the declaration of independence in March 1990, a new criminal code was adopted in December 1991. The death penalty was provided only in Article 105 for premeditated murder in aggravating circumstances. Lithuania became a signatory of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in February 1992. The covenant, among other things, provided that each person had the right to petition for clemency. In July 1994, amendments to the criminal code specified that women or people younger than 18 at the time of the crime could not receive death sentences. The execution of death penalty was suspended on July 25, 1996 by a decree of President Algirdas Brazauskas. The president refused to review clemency petitions without which no death penalty could be carried out. \n\nAbolition of death penalty was one of the requirements for Lithuania's membership in the European Union (see: 2004 enlargement of the European Union), however a poll of public opinion revealed that 70–80% of Lithuanians supported death penalty. Thus, members of Seimas (Lithuanian parliament) were reluctant to vote for the abolition. Instead, Seimas brought a case to the Constitutional Court of Lithuania to determine whether death penalty was constitutional. On December 9, 1998, the Constitutional Court ruled that the death penalty was unconstitutional as it was contrary to Articles 18 (\"Human rights and freedoms shall be innate\"), 19 (\"The right to life of a human being shall be protected by law\"), and 21.3 (\"It shall be prohibited to torture or injure a human being, degrade his dignity, subject him to cruel treatment, or to establish such punishments\") of the Constitution of Lithuania. On December 22, the criminal code was amended to strike out death penalty effective December 31, 1998. Sentences for nine people on death row were commuted to life imprisonment.\n\nBetween 1990 and 1995, some 30 people received death sentences. From March 1990 to December 1998, Lithuania executed seven men by shooting with a single firearm:\n\nWhen Lithuania declared independence in February 1918, it inherited the 1903 criminal code of the Russian Empire. The code provided for the death penalty only for crimes against the state (for example, conspiring to intervene with the imperial succession), but military law of war provided for death penalty by shooting or hanging for some 30 different crimes including banditry, robbery, rape, and premeditated murder. When Lithuania updated its statutes in January and February 1919, the duality remained: the death penalty was abolished in the criminal code but was retained in the military law (). Article 14 of the military law provided for death penalty for eight crimes, mostly directed against the state, the military, or the officials, but also included armed robbery with murder. The provisional constitution of 1920 even spoke about the abolition of the death penalty. However, Lithuania with brief interruptions remained under the martial law until November 1938 when it was lifted due to German pressure in the months before the ultimatum of March 1939. \n\nHistorian Sigita Černevičiūtė counted at least 146 executions in interwar Lithuania, though records are incomplete and fragmentary. Due to the martial law, the executions were carried out by the military by shooting though legal acts provided hanging. In 1937–1940, Lithuania operated a gas chamber in Aleksotas within the First Fort of the Kaunas Fortress. In January 1937, the criminal code was amended to provide execution by gas which at the time was viewed as more civilized and humane. Lithuania considered and rejected execution by poison. The first execution was carried on July 27, 1937: Bronius Pogužinskas, age 37, convicted of murder of five members of a Jewish family. Černevičiūtė counted at least nine executions in the gas chamber. Of the nine, eight were convicted of murder. One, Aleksandras Maurušaitis, was in addition convicted of anti-government actions during the 1935 Suvalkija farmers' strike. The last known execution took place on May 19, 1940 for robbery. The fate of the gas chamber after the occupation by the Soviet Union in June 1940 is unclear.\n\nDuring the chaotic years of the Lithuanian Wars of Independence, not all executions were properly carried out. For example, in 1919, communist activists and his wife were executed without a trial and was executed (allegedly during an escape attempt) even though he received only a six-year prison sentence.\n\nIn February 1920, four men were executed for instigating a mutiny among soldiers stationed in Kaunas. Between the coup in December 1926 and Soviet occupation in June 1940, Lithuania was ruled by authoritarian President Antanas Smetona and there were several political executions. Four communists were executed in the immediate aftermath of the December 1926 coup while sentences of two others were commuted to life imprisonment. Eight people were executed for their participation in the anti-Smetona revolt in Tauragė in September 1927 while 14 other were pardoned. General was convicted of spying for the Soviet Union and executed in June 1927. Aleksandras Vosylius was executed in May 1929 for an assassination attempt on Prime Minister Augustinas Voldemaras. 18 people received death sentences for their participation in the 1935 Suvalkija farmers' strike, but majority received presidential pardons and only five were executed. In other instances the presidential pardon was used more generously. For example, three men, including General Petras Kubiliūnas, received pardons for their role in the 1934 anti-Smetona coup and five men received pardons for their conviction of murder during the Neumann–Sass case.\n"}
{"id": "48511199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48511199", "title": "Cathy A. Cowan", "text": "Cathy A. Cowan\n\nCathy A. Cowan is an American economist and social scientist. She earned her bachelor's degree from Indiana University in business and went on to attain a master's degree in business administration from the University of South Carolina. After completing her education, she worked in the 1990s as a program analyst for the Health Care Financing Administration, which later became the National Health Statistics Group at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Her research focuses on health care expenditure in the United States, comparing the trends of government, business and personal spending patterns. Besides issuing quarterly and annual reviews of the costs of health care, Cowan researches disparity of coverage and cost between US and international markets. She serves as chair of the Global Health Expenditure Database's Technical Advisory Group to the World Health Organization. Since 2014, she has been on the Thomson Reuters' list of most cited scientists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2689895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2689895", "title": "Cervical effacement", "text": "Cervical effacement\n\nCervical effacement (also called cervical ripening) refers to a thinning of the cervix. It is a component of the Bishop score.\n\nIt can be expressed as a percentage.\n\nPrior to effacement, the cervix is like a long bottleneck, usually about four centimeters in length. Throughout pregnancy, the cervix is tightly closed and protected by a plug of mucus. When the cervix effaces, the mucus plug is loosened and passes out of the vagina. The mucus may be tinged with blood and the passage of the mucus plug is called bloody show (or simply \"show\"). As effacement takes place, the cervix then shortens, or effaces, pulling up into the uterus and becoming part of the lower uterine wall. Effacement may be measured in percentages, from zero percent (not effaced at all) to 100 percent, which indicates a paper-thin cervix. Effacement is accompanied by cervical dilation.\n"}
{"id": "34024745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34024745", "title": "CimaVax-EGF", "text": "CimaVax-EGF\n\nCimaVax-EGF is a vaccine used to treat cancer, specifically non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). CIMAvax-EGF is composed of recombinant human epidermal growth factor (EGF) conjugated to a protein carrier.\n\nThe vaccine was developed by the Center of Molecular Immunology, Havana, Cuba There are agreements in place to test it in the United States, Japan, and some European countries. It is currently available in Cuba, Colombia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Peru and Paraguay. In October 2015 Serbia's Institute of Virology, Vaccines and Sera (AKA Torlak Institute) signed a memorandum for use in 30 patients as part of a study. CimaVax is relatively cheap to produce and store, and has low toxicity. Side effects of the vaccine appear to be mild, and include chills, fever, and feeling sick.\n\nCimaVax is an active vaccine with which patients are immunized with epidermal growth factor (EGF), thus raising antibodies targeting EGF itself. The product is also formulated with the \"Neisseria meningitidis\" outer protein P64k and Montanide ISA 51 as adjuvants to potentiate the immune response. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is hijacked by many types of cancer, including cancers of the lung, colon, kidney, and head and neck. By raising antibodies against EGF, which is EGFR's major ligand, the concentrations of EGF in the blood are reduced. Thus CimaVax does not target the cancer cells directly, but is expected to work against these cancers by denying the cancers the growth stimulus they require. For this reason, the Roswell Park group thinks that it may prove most useful as a \"preventive\" vaccine rather than as a cancer therapy \"per se\".\n\nEarly trials showed a trend towards improved survival among vaccinated test subjects. A direct correlation between the level of antibodies that a vaccinated patient raises against EGF and survival has been observed in several trials, and in one of the largest trials there was also an age-dependence, with only subjects under the age of 60 benefiting in terms of survival. More antibodies are raised when the vaccine is formulated with Montanide ISA 51 rather than aluminum hydroxide as an adjuvant, and when patients receive a low dose of cyclophosphamide three days before vaccine administration. Cyclophosphamide is thought to temporarily block the body's natural immune tolerance to EGF, thereby increasing antibody titers.\n\nResearchers caution that the early results to date have been in relatively small, early-stage trials with patients that were carefully selected based on predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria, and given specialized oncology care; they may therefore not be representative of most patients who might benefit from the vaccine. It has been urged that CimaVax be tested in patients with earlier-stage NSCLC cancer and in patients who are not candidates for chemotherapy, and that research be conducted to determine which subgroups of NSCLC patients do and don't respond to the vaccine. It has been suggested that CimaVax may also be effective in other types of cancer that are dependent on EGF/EGFR, including many cases of prostate cancer.\n\nTrials are being organized in the United States, the European Union, Japan, and Serbia. In late October 2016, the United States Food and Drug Administration authorized the Roswell Park Cancer Institute to conduct a PhaseI/II clinical trial of CimaVAX in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. By the middle of the following month, nearly 200 people had volunteered to be subjects in the trial.\n"}
{"id": "33427194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33427194", "title": "City West Water", "text": "City West Water\n\nCity West Water is a government owned water company providing water and sewerage for the inner city suburbs and the western metropolitan areas of Melbourne, Australia. The main office is located in Footscray.\n\n"}
{"id": "21443615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21443615", "title": "Congenital hypoplastic anemia", "text": "Congenital hypoplastic anemia\n\nCongenital hypoplastic anemia (or constitutional aplastic anemia) is a type of aplastic anemia which is primarily due to a congenital disorder.\n\nAssociated genes include \"TERC\", \"TERT\", \"IFNG\", \"NBS1\", \"PRF1\", and \"SBDS\".\n\nExamples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "56234260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56234260", "title": "DaVita Clinical Research", "text": "DaVita Clinical Research\n\nDaVita Clinical Research, formerly Total Renal Research, Inc., is a clinical trial company which conducts Phase I and II studies and manages a network of trial sites that operate Phase II-IV clinical trials. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of DaVita, Inc.. It has trial sites in North America and Europe. DaVita Clinical Research works with CROs and manufacturers on clinical trials.\n\nDaVita Clinical Research was founded in 1985 in a hospital-based facility at Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis, MN. In 2012, DaVita Clinical Research partnered with St. Anthony Medical Campus to establish a hospital-based research facility containing 80 beds, which increased the company's trial capacity from 42 to 122 beds in North America.\n\nDaVita Clinical Research merged with HealthCare Partners Clinical Research, which was acquired by DaVita, Inc. in 2012 for $4.4 billion, in December 2014.\n\nIn August 2016, DaVita Clinical Research announced a global strategic alliance with Quintiles to optimize end-to-end support for renal disease clinical trials.\n"}
{"id": "49965502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49965502", "title": "EBSA Form 700", "text": "EBSA Form 700\n\nEBSA Form 700 is a form that the United States Government had required certain non-profit organizations to complete and submit, beginning January 1, 2014, in order to claim an exemption from the contraceptive mandate under the Affordable Care Act. After the U.S. Supreme court issued temporary injunctions, preventing any penalty against some non-profit institutions who objected to filing the form, the U.S. Department of Labor issued a new version of the form making it clear that organizations can, instead object by a letter.\n\nIn 2010, Congress passed the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which relies on the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), part of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), to specify what kinds of preventive care for women should be covered in certain employer-based health plans. HHS exempted churches (including houses of worship, such as synagogues and mosques) and their integrated auxiliaries, associations of churches, and any religious order that engages exclusively in religious activity. Other non-profit organizations that object to any required contraception coverage were to file an EBSA Form 700 with their insurance company notifying them of the non-profit's objection. The insurance company would then provide the contraceptive coverage directly to employees without any involvement of the employer, including any distribution of literature or extra payments by the employer.\n\nThe Little Sisters of the Poor, a Roman Catholic religious order, runs over 25 homes for low-income elderly in the United States and therefore is not automatically exempt from the contraceptive mandate. It objected to filing Form 700 because it believed that doing would make the order complicit in providing contraception, a sin under Roman Catholic doctrine. \nOn December 31, 2013, the day before the filing requirement was to come into effect, Supreme Court Justice Sonya Sotomayor granted a temporary injunction to the Little Sisters of the Poor, allowing them to simply inform the Secretary of Health and Human Services of their objections, pending resolution of the case. Other religious institutions filed similar objections.\n\nOn June 30, 2014, the Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 in \"Burwell v. Hobby Lobby\" that under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), closely held for-profit corporations are exempt from the contraceptive mandate, if they object on religious grounds, because the accommodation offered to objecting non-profits would be a less restrictive way to achieve the ACA's interest.\n\nOn July 3, 2014, the Supreme Court granted a temporary exemption to the approach it suggested as a less restrictive alternative in \"Hobby Lobby,\" where the plaintiffs would send an EBSA Form 700 to its insurance issuer, which would pay for the contraception. In an unsigned emergency injunction for Wheaton College in Illinois, the court said that instead of notifying its insurance issuer, Wheaton can notify the government. Once notified, the government should notify the issuer. Wheaton believed that by transferring the obligation to cover contraceptives to its insurance issuer, it was triggering that obligation. The emergency injunction does not constitute a ruling on the merits of Wheaton's religious objection. The court said \"Nothing in this interim order affects the ability of the applicant’s employees and students to obtain, without cost, the full range of FDA approved contraceptives.\" In a 15-page dissent joined by the other two women on the court, Justice Sotomayor criticized the majority's reasoning and distinguished it from the situation with the Little Sisters of the Poor.\nA revised version of EBSA Form 700, was issued effective August 2014, that says \"[a]s an alternative to using this form, an eligible organization may provide notice to the Secretary of Health and Human Services that the eligible organization has a religious objection to providing coverage for all or a subset of contraceptive services...\". The form includes a link to a suggested model notification letter. The model notification letter can be found at http://www.dol.gov/ebsa/pdf/modelnoticetosecretaryofhhs.pdf.\n\n"}
{"id": "3498873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3498873", "title": "Epilepsy in animals", "text": "Epilepsy in animals\n\nEpilepsy in animals is a group of neurological disorders characterized by seizures, caused by abnormal bursts of electrical activity in the brain. They can start and stop very abruptly and last any amount of time from a few seconds to a few minutes. Canine epilepsy is often genetic but epilepsy in cats and other pets is rarer, likely because there is no hereditary component to epilepsy in these animals.\n\nEpilepsy is most commonly recognised by involuntary movements of the head and limbs, however other characteristics include salivation, lack of bodily functions and anxiety. Animals often lose consciousness and are not aware of their surroundings.\n\nWatching an animal have a seizure can be quite frightening. There is not much that can be done during a seizure except to remain calm and not leave the animal alone. If your pet is having a seizure it is important to make sure they are lying down on the floor away from any water, stairs or other animals. When an animal has a seizure, do not try to grab their tongue or clear their mouth as there is a high chance you will be bitten; contrary to popular myth, neither humans nor animals can \"swallow their tongue\" during a seizure, so it is safest to stay well away from their mouth during one. Timing seizures is also crucial. Take notes of seizures - what time they occur, how often and any other specific information which can be passed onto the vet or emergency animal clinic.\n\nIn dogs, epilepsy is often an inherited condition. The incidence of epilepsy/seizures in the general dog population is estimated to be between 0.5% and 5.7%. In certain breeds, such as the Belgian Shepherd, the incidence may be much higher.\n\nThere are three types of epilepsy in dogs: reactive, secondary, and primary. Reactive epileptic seizures are caused by metabolic issues, such as low blood sugar or kidney or liver failure. Epilepsy attributed to brain tumor, stroke or other trauma is known as secondary or symptomatic epilepsy.\n\nThere is no known cause for primary or idiopathic epilepsy, which is only diagnosed by eliminating other possible causes for the seizures. Dogs with idiopathic epilepsy experience their first seizure between the ages of one and three. However, the age at diagnosis is only one factor in diagnosing canine epilepsy, as one study found cause for seizures in one-third of dogs between the ages of one and three, indicating secondary or reactive rather than primary epilepsy.\n\nA veterinarian's initial work-up for a dog presenting with a history of seizures may include a physical and neurological exam, a complete blood count, serum chemistry profile, urinalysis, bile tests, and thyroid function tests. These tests verify seizures and may determine cause for reactive or secondary epilepsy. Veterinarians may also request that dog owners keep a \"seizure log\" documenting the timing, length, severity, and recovery of each seizure, as well as dietary or environmental changes.\n\nMany antiepileptic drugs are used for the management of canine epilepsy. Oral phenobarbital, in particular, and imepitoin are considered to be the most effective antiepileptic drugs and usually used as ‘first line’ treatment. Other anti-epileptics such as zonisamide, primidone, gabapentin, pregabalin, sodium valproate, felbamate and topiramate may also be effective and used in various combinations. A crucial part of the treatment of pets with epilepsy is owner education to ensure compliance and successful management.\n\nSeizures in cats have various initiating factors. Cats can have reactive, primary (idiopathic) or secondary seizures. Idiopathic seizures are not as common in cats as in dogs however a recent study conducted showed that of 91 feline seizures, 25% were suspected to have had idiopathic epilepsy. In the same group of 91 cats, 50% were secondary seizures and 20% reactive.\n\nIdiopathic epilepsy does not have a classification due to the fact there are no known causes of these seizures, however both reactive and symptomatic secondary epilepsy can be placed into classifications.\n\nMeningiomas, lymphomas and glial cell brain tumours are the most common cancers in cats and are all common causes of seizures.\n\nVascular disease refers to any condition that effects the flow of blood to the brain and can potentially result in seizure disorders. Common vascular diseases in cats include, feline ischemic encephalopathy, polycythemia and hypertension.\n\nAny inflammatory or infectious disease that reaches the brain can result in inducing seizures. The most common inflammatory or infectious diseases which cause seizures in cats include, feline infectious peritonitis, Toxoplasmosis and Cryptococcus.\n\nMany diseases that occur as a result from illness in parts of the body other than the brain can cause felines to have seizures, especially in older cats. Some of the common metabolic causes of seizures in felines include, hepatic encephalopathy, renal encephalopathy, hypoglycaemia and hypothyroidism.\n\n"}
{"id": "196950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196950", "title": "Esophageal motility disorder", "text": "Esophageal motility disorder\n\nAn esophageal motility disorder (EMD) is any medical disorder causing difficulty in swallowing, regurgitation of food and a spasm-type pain which can be brought on by an allergic reaction to certain foods. The most prominent one is dysphagia. It is a part of CREST syndrome, referring to the five main features: calcinosis, Raynaud syndrome, esophageal dysmotility, sclerodactyly and telangiectasia.\n\nThere are contractions along the lower esophagus when this condition happens. These contractions prevent the passage of food.\n\nDysphagia could be for solid only or for solid and liquid. \n\n"}
{"id": "5083172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5083172", "title": "Eustress", "text": "Eustress\n\nEustress means beneficial stress—either psychological, physical (e.g. exercise), or biochemical/radiological (hormesis).\n\nThe term was coined by endocrinologist Hans Selye, consisting of the Greek prefix \"eu-\" meaning \"good\", and \"stress\", literally meaning \"good stress\".\n\nEustress was originally explored in a stress model by Richard Lazarus. It is the positive cognitive response to stress that is healthy, or gives one a feeling of fulfilment or other positive feelings. Selye created the term as a subgroup of stress to differentiate the wide variety of stressors and manifestations of stress.\n\nEustress is not defined by the stressor type, but rather how one perceives that stressor (e.g. a negative threat versus a positive challenge). Eustress refers to a positive response one has to a stressor, which can depend on one's current feelings of control, desirability, location, and timing of the stressor. Potential indicators of eustress may include responding to a stressor with a sense of meaning, hope, or vigor. Eustress has also been positively correlated with life satisfaction and well-being.\nEustress is uncomfortable, but leads to personal growth.\n\nEustress occurs when the gap between what one has and what one wants is slightly pushed, but not overwhelmed. The goal is not too far out of reach but is still slightly more than one can handle. This fosters challenge and motivation since the goal is in sight. The function of challenge is to motivate a person toward improvement and a goal. Challenge is an opportunity-related emotion that allows people to achieve unmet goals. Eustress is indicated by hope and active engagement. Eustress has a significantly positive correlation with life satisfaction and hope. It is typically assumed that experiencing chronic stress, either in the form of distress or eustress, is negative. However, eustress can instead fuel physiological thriving by positively influencing the underlying biological processes implicated in physical recovery and immunity.\n\nOccupational eustress may be measured on subjective levels such as of quality of life or work life, job pressure, psychological coping resources, complaints, overall stress level, and mental health. Other subjective methodological practices have included interviews with focus groups asking about stressors and stress level. In one study participants were asked to remember a past stressful event and then answer questionnaires on coping skills, job well-being, and appraisal of the situation (viewing the stressful event as a challenge or a threat). Common subjective methodologies were incorporated in a holistic stress model created in 2007 to acknowledge the importance of eustress, particularly in the workplace. This model uses hope, positive affect, meaningfulness, and manageability as a measure of eustress, and negative psychological states, negative affect, anxiety, and anger as a measure of distress. Objective measures have also been used and include blood pressure rate, muscle tension, and absenteeism rates. Further physiological research has looked for neuroendocrine changes as a result of eustress and distress. Research has shown that catecholamines change rapidly to pleasurable stimuli. Studies have demonstrated that eustress and distress produce different responses in the neuroendocrine system, particularly dependent on the amount of personal control one feels over a stressor.\n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>Distress is the most commonly referred to type of stress, having negative implications, whereas eustress is usually related to desirable events in a person's life. Selye first differentiated the two in an article he wrote in 1975. In this article Selye argued that persistent stress that is not resolved through coping or adaptation should be known as distress, and may lead to anxiety, withdrawal, and depressive behavior. In contrast, if stress enhances one's functioning it may be considered eustress. Both can be equally taxing on the body, and are cumulative in nature, depending on a person's way of adapting to the stressor that caused it. The body itself cannot physically discern between distress or eustress. Differentiation between the two is dependent on one's perception of the stress, but it is believed that the same stressor may cause both eustress and distress. One context that this may occur in is societal trauma (e.g. the black death, World War II) which may cause great distress, but also eustress in the form of hardiness, coping, and fostering a sense of community. The Yerkes–Dodson model demonstrates the optimum balance of stress with a bell curve (shown in the image in the top right). This model is supported by research demonstrating emotional-coping and behavioral-coping strategies are related to changes in perceived stress level on the Yerkes–Dodson Curve.\n\nMuch of the research on eustress has focused on its presence in the workplace. In the workplace, stress can often be interpreted as a challenge, which generally denotes positive eustress, or as a hindrance, which refers to distress that interferes with one's ability to accomplish a job or task.\n\nResearch has focused on increasing eustress in the workplace, in an effort to promote positive reactions to an inevitably stressful environment. Companies are interested in learning more about eustress and its positive effects to increase productivity. Eustress creates a better environment for employees, which makes them perform better and cost less. Occupational stress costs the United States somewhere in between 200 and 300 billion dollars per year. If this were eustress instead of distress, these companies would retain this money and the U.S. economy could improve as well. Stress has also been linked to the six leading causes of death: \"disease, accidents, cancer, liver disease, lung ailments, suicide.\" If workers get sick and/or die, there is obviously a cost to the company in sick time and training new employees. It is better to have productive, happy employees. Eustress is necessary for achievement. Eustress is related to well-being and positive attitudes and thus increases work performance.\n\nTechniques such as Stress Management Interventions (SMI) have been employed to increase occupational eustress. SMI's often incorporate exercise, meditation, and relaxation techniques to decrease distress and increase positive perceptions of stress in the workplace. Rather than decrease stress in the workplace, SMI techniques attempt to increase eustress with positive reactions to stressful stimuli.\n\nEustress is primarily based on perceptions. It is how you perceive your given situation and how you perceive your given task. It is not what is actually happening, but a person's perception of what is happening. Eustress is thus related to self-efficacy. Self-efficacy is one's judgment of how they can carry out a required task, action or role. Some contributing factors are a person's beliefs about the effectiveness about their options for courses of action and their ability to perform those actions. If a person has low self-efficacy, they will see the demand as more distressful than eustressful because the perceived level of what the person has is lower. When a person has high self-efficacy, they can set goals higher and be motivated to achieve them. The goal then is to increase self-efficacy and skill in order to enable people to increase eustress.\n\nWhen an individual appraises a situation as stressful, they add the label for distress or eustress to the issue at hand. If a situation induces eustress, the person may feel motivated and can experience flow. Positive psychologist, Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, created this concept which is described as the moments when one is completely absorbed into an enjoyable activity with no awareness of surroundings. Flow is an extremely productive state in which an individual experiences their prime performance. The core elements are absorption, enjoyment and intrinsic motivation.\n\nFlow is the \"ultimate eustress experience – the epitome of eustress\". Hargrove, Nelson and Cooper described eustress as being focused on a challenge, fully present and exhilarated, which almost exactly mirrors the definition of flow. Flow is considered a peak experience or \"the single most joyous, happiest, most blissful moment of your life.\"\n\nThere are several factors that may increase or decrease one's chances of experiencing eustress and, through eustress, experiencing flow. \n\nEustress is common in the examples below. However, the examples depend on how an individual perceives the stress. The examples below are most often perceived as eustress:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6821306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6821306", "title": "Fat feminism", "text": "Fat feminism\n\nFat feminism (body-positive feminism) is a form of feminism that merges with the fat acceptance movement. This form of feminism specifically addresses how misogyny and sexism intersect with sizeism and anti-fat bias. Body-positive feminists promote acceptance for women of all sizes. Fat feminism originated during second-wave feminism. Now fat feminists main focus is eliminating perceived bias against fat people. Fat Feminist claim sizeists have negative opinions about people who are overweight such as being lazy, and eating unhealthy foods more often than they should.\n\nFat feminism and the related fat acceptance movement originated in the late 1960s, alongside second-wave feminism. During the late 1960's and 1970's, activists such as Sara Fishman, Dr. Franklin Igway, Judy Freespirit, Aldebaran, and Karen Jones, now known as Karen Stimson, emerged. In 1973, Fishman and Freespirit released \"Fat Liberation Manifesto\" which opposed size discrimination, describing it as sexism. Their movement was met with mixed reactions during the 1960's, the same decade when very thin models, such as Twiggy, became fashionable. Some of the feminists, such as Gloria Steinem and Jane Fonda, who were active during the decade believed that removing traits of \"femaleness\" was necessary to gain entrance to a male-dominated society. This ideal would make removing feminie curves, making fat unfeminist. Dispite of this, activists continued to hold demonstrations and continued their course of action. When the fat feminists did not get support from National Organization for Women, they founded organizations to advocate size acceptance, such as Fat Underground (opened up by Judy Freespirit and Aldebaran), The Body Image Task Force (Santa Cruz) and The Body Positive. The first fat feminist book, \"Fat is a Feminist Issue\", by Susie Orbach was published in 1978.\n\nDuring the 80's, the movement had mixed success. During this time more organizations and publications against size discrimination were founded. The first issue of \"Radiance: The Magazine for Large Women\" was published in 1984. Clothing brands and fashion magazines were founded that targeted a plus-size audience. Fat feminists were also suing diet programs for fraudulent claims. However, the popularity of the diet industry did not wane as it was boosted by the fitness boom during the 1980s. By the late 1990s, Americans were spending approximately $40 billion on diet products and programs.\n\nIn the 1990s fat feminism was gaining steam. For the first time, fat feminism was officially supported by National Organization for Women when the organization adopted an anti-size discrimination stance with no dissenting vote, and started a body image task force. In 1992, Mary Evans Young, a size-positive activist in England, launched International No Diet Day (INDD) which was planned as a picnic. Due to the rain, her plan failed, and the celebration was held indoors instead. In 1993 many American feminist groups joined in and 25 states participated in INDD's second annual celebration. International No Diet Day continues to be observed on May 6 each year.\n\nIn 1993, the California Supreme Court ruled in favor of Toni Cassista who filed a lawsuit against Community Foods, a store in Santa Cruz, California when she was not hired because of her size. This put an end to work discrimination based on weight in the state of California. As of early September 2018, 49 states can fire employees for gaining weight because of at-will employment. A study from Yale University shows that 10% of women and 5% of men experience weight discrimination at work.\n\nDuring the 90s the zine movement, the riot grrrl movement, and the Fat Liberation movement converged for many young activists, resulting in the publication of numerous fat feminist zines. Among these publications were \"Fat!So?: for people who don't apologize for their size\" by Marilyn Wann, \"I'm So Fucking Beautiful\" by Nomy Lamm, and \"Fat Girl: a zine for fat dykes and the women who want them\" produced by The Fat Girl Collective in San Francisco from 1994-1997. In 1996, Toronto-based activist and performance art troupe Pretty Porky & Pissed Off (PPPO) was founded by Allyson Mitchell, Ruby Rowan, and Mariko Tamaki. PPPO grew to include other members and worked as a collective until 2005 publishing their zine series, \"Double Double\". Nomy Lamm was named by \"Ms. Magazine\" as a \"Woman of the Year\" in 1997, \"For inspiring a new generation of feminists to fight back against fat oppression.\" In 1999 Marilyn Wann expanded her zine into the book \": Because You Don't Have to Apologize for Your Size\". In 2005, former \"Fat Girl\" collective members Max Airborne and Cherry Midnight published \"Size Queen: for Queen-Sized Queers and our Loyal Subjects.\"\n\nThe 2000s saw an increase in internet feminism and internet fat activism, The fat acceptance blogosphere has been dubbed the \"fatosphere\" and has enjoyed some positive publicity in mainstream publications. Kate Harding and Marianne Kirby, who are prominent fat bloggers, released a co-written self-help book in 2009 called \"Lessons from the Fat-o-sphere: Quit Dieting and Declare a Truce with Your Body\", which has 27 chapters devoted to different topics, including body positivity, health at every size, and intuitive eating.\nIn 2005, Linda Bacon conceived the Health at Every Size belief system, which rejects dieting and the weight-based paradigm of health. Bacon's System has been adopted by many fat feminists.\nBeth Ditto, frontwoman of punk band The Gossip, who is vocal about fat acceptance, attained celebrity in the mid-2000s with the popularity of her band's 2006 album \"Standing in the Way of Control\", which has raised awareness of the movement.\n\nShortly after Barack Obama had started his term as President, the first lady, Michelle Obama, began a campaign called \"Let's Move\" to draw attention to obesity in America and encourage people to work out, eat healthy and lose weight as a result in 2010.\n\nIn May 2015, America met the \"Dancing Man.\" The man, Sean O'Brien, is an over-weight man that loves to dance. A Twitter user posted a picture of him dancing and another photo of him looking upset, captioning the photos with \"caught this specimen dancing last week, he stopped when he saw us laughing.\" Soon after this was posted, Cassandra Fairbanks started a movement to get O'Brien to come to America and dance with the big leagues in Los Angeles where he was celebrated.\n\nAt the beginning of 2016, Mattel released \"Curvy Barbie.\" This line of Barbie's included dolls that were all shapes, sizes, and a select few of different ethnicities. When asked about the doll the company said \"getting rid of Barbie's thigh gap is part of 'evolving the images that come to mind when people talk about barbie.\" The company also says they are \"listening to what girls are talking about.\" \n\nAt the beginning of 2017, there was a new trend for fat feminists and body-positive activists to take control of how their fat was seen. The #Don'tHateTheShake videos posted all over social media, were about both fat men and women stripping down to their undergarments and dancing to upbeat music as if they were at a dance club. This was created by Melissa Gibson, but has gained traction because of Megan Jayne Crabbe, who spreads body positivity all over social media to her large follower count. Crabbe has recently published a book about body positivity, that has yet to be published in the United States, called \"Body Positive Power\"\".\"\n\nMany of the authors in \"Shadow on a Tightrope: Writings By Women on Fat Oppression\" are lesbians, and many were involved in lesbian feminism. Their experience of fatness is different from that of straight fat women because of their experience of combined discrimination based on their sex, size and sexual orientation.\n\nFat women of color have a different experience than fat white women because of their intersectional experiences of not only size discrimination and misogyny, but racism as well. Women of color also need to be represented in the media. People of color in general, overweight or not, are portrayed negatively in television shows, movies, and even major news channels. Some examples of women of color in the media is bell hooks, Lauryn Hill, Sonya Renee Taylor, and Gabourey Sidibe.\n\nWomen of color experience fatness and the body positivity movement different from white women due to their experiences with racial oppression on top of anti-fat bias. According to A.A. Williams, women of color often do not view being fat as being synonymous with being unattractive. They further opine that fat women of color use their weight and personal style as a way to counter dominant beauty standards that have historically been defined by whiteness. Personal styles include having natural hair or dreads for black women as well as embracing larger and curvier figures. Research suggests that women of color, as well as communities of color in general, may consider more body types as beautiful than white beauty standards. However, because women of color are often excluded from fat positivity and acceptance movements, many have turned to social media as a way of finding inclusion within the fat feminist movement. Fat women of color resist dominant beauty standards by creating intersectional frameworks for accepting fat women of all identities. Fat women of color also work to resist fetishization by the male gaze or by those giving unwanted health advice while also creating positive and accepting spaces for themselves.\n\nWhen talking about the Fat Feminist movement Women of Color are often overlooked and included less because of white privilege. According to the article Fat People of Color, studies show that \"14% of the 1018 roles on prime-time television programming portrayed 'overweight' or 'obese' females\" and even less are overweight women of color. When these women are portrayed in social media it is often that they are over sexualized even for a young age.\n\nA theory presented by Michel Foucault in his book \"The Perverse Implantation\" suggests that society plants ideas inside the minds of individuals all over the world which creates industries and in turn controls the people and the way their belief system works. This is much like the dieting industry, built to help people overweight become \"normal\" which in a society such as this, the goal is to be \"thin\" or \"curvy\", not fat. \"Weight Watchers\", \"Nutrisystem\", \"DetoxTea\", surgical weight loss options, are all tailored towards individuals to lose weight. These are ideas fat feminists and body-positive activists are completely against. Laura S. Brown, author of Fat Oppression and Psychotherapy, examines that being fat isn't unhealthy. The standards that we hold over-weight individuals to, is what's unhealthy for these individuals. Bulimia, anorexia, depression, anxiety, etc., are all brought on because of the standards that society has over those who are considered outsiders to what's normal.\n\nThere are many reasons why people consider fat to be a feminist issue. First, \"several US health and women's studies scholars have declared obesity a feminist issue on the grounds that women, specifically African American and poor women, are more likely than men to be obese.\" The marginalization women feel simply due to their gender can affect their eating habits in a negative way. Second, the intersection of obesity with race and socioeconomic status represents concerns in regards to environmental policy issues. Relating to this second reason is the idea that women, particularly women of color, are generally more likely to be obese than men because of things such as child rearing and a lack of access to fresh produce and goods. In addition, the mere idea of becoming fat has caused many women to develop an eating disorder that is sometimes detrimental or life altering. Moreover, women may over eat in an attempt to avoid being an object of the male gaze by making them more invisible to men's desires. Lastly, the intersectionality of being fat and being a woman is at the heart of fat feminism because discrimination and prejudice often occur as a result of gender and body type. The points above that connect fatness to feminism revolve around the varying experiences that body type can produce when combined with socioeconomic status, race, gender, sexual orientation, and many other identities. \n\nWhile Fat Feminism has made positive changes in the world, it is not perfect. Within Fat Studies there is a sort of privilege for the curvy girl, and a disadvantage for the thin girl. This is called the anti-thin bias and can close up this form of feminism to a girl because of her body type. This type of feminism also is very closed off to anyone who is not a white curvy girl. Overweight men and Overweight Women of Color are often excluded from this movement. The article Feminism and the Invisible Fat Man discusses how fashion tends and body fashions may seem to effect women more, but men are just as effected. Women of Color experience the same kind of invisibility, they are not represented nearly as well as white women within this movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25456510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25456510", "title": "Franciscan Sisters of Christian Charity Sponsored Ministries", "text": "Franciscan Sisters of Christian Charity Sponsored Ministries\n\nThe Franciscan Sisters of Christian Charity (FSCC) Sponsored Ministries (formerly FSCC HealthCare Ministry) is a not-for-profit system of health care facilities and a liberal arts college headquartered in Manitowoc, Wisconsin. The system has hospitals and long-term care facilities in Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin, and Silver Lake College of the Holy Family in Manitowoc. FSCC Sponsored Ministries is dedicated to carrying out its sponsor's (the Franciscan Sisters of Christian Charity) commitment to the healing and education ministries of the Catholic Church.\n\nThe mission of the Franciscan Sisters of Christian Charity Sponsored Ministries is to carry out the commitment of the Sponsor to the healing and educational mission of the Catholic Church through the provision of quality health care and educational services. In a spirit of partnership with dedicated religious and lay leaders, the Franciscan Sisters of Christian Charity Sponsored Ministries will strengthen the Sponsor's commitment by managing change, ensuring stewardship of resources and integrating mission and values.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1654121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1654121", "title": "Francisco Bertrand", "text": "Francisco Bertrand\n\nFrancisco Bertrand Barahona (1866–1926) was twice President of Honduras, first from 28 March 1911 to 1 February 1912, and then again between 21 March 1913 and 9 September 1919. His successor and predecessor was Manuel Bonilla, and Bertrand served as the Vice President in Bonilla's cabinet. He was a member of the National Party.\n\nBertrand started out with a reputation as a conciliator, but during his last presidency was involved in armed conflict with his political opponents. It is believed that United States of America pressure was behind his abandoning the post of President. He spent the next few years in exile before returning to La Ceiba, Honduras to die in July 1926.\n"}
{"id": "19227172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19227172", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Ukraine", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Ukraine\n\nThe HIV/AIDS epidemic in Ukraine is one of the fastest growing in the world. Ukraine has one of the highest rates of increase of HIV/AIDS cases in Eastern Europe and highest HIV prevalence outside Africa. Experts estimated in August 2010 that 1.3 percent of the adult population of Ukraine was infected with HIV, the highest in all of Europe. Late 2011 Ukraine numbered 360,000 HIV-positive persons (increase in the rate close to zero compared with 2010). Between 1987 and late 2012 27,800 Ukrainians died of AIDS. In 2012 tests revealed 57 new cases of HIV positive Ukrainians each day and 11 daily AIDS-related deaths (on a population of roughly 45 million at the time). \n\nIdentified in the country in 1987, HIV/AIDS appeared to be confined to a small population until the mid-1990s, when a sudden and explosive epidemic emerged among injecting drug users and prostitutes against the background of severe economic crisis and collapse of social healthcare system. Between 2005 and 2012 seven regions south and southeastern Ukraine contributed 61.8% of cases but only 32.3% of the population. According to data reported in 2015 the epidemic is still on the rise, but it doesn't limit itself by a small group of drug users and appears to be accelerated within all parts of Ukrainian population with growing numbers of infected women.\n\nHIV officially reached the territory of the former Soviet Union in 1987, about 5 years after the virus itself was discovered. Until 1995 there were only a few known cases of HIV infections in Ukraine. The country was therefore deemed to be “low risk” by the World Health Organisation (WHO) in terms of spread at that time. Between 1987 and 1994, 183 infections were reported.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the transmission was primarily through injecting drug use. By 2001, however, the proportion of new cases of HIV/AIDS attributable to injecting drug use had declined to 57% from 84% in 1997. During that time, heterosexual transmission increased from 11% to 27%, and perinatal transmission increased from 2% to 13% as a proportion of total cases.\n\nUNAIDS estimates that the number of people infected with HIV/AIDS in 2003 was 360,000 (range 180,000 to 590,000), representing an adult prevalence of 1.4%. According to the Ministry of Health—which estimates that by 2002 there were more than 500,000 people infected or nearly 2% of the adult population—the epidemic has now spread to every oblast in the country. Prevalence in the southern and eastern oblasts (Odessa, Mykolaiv, Dnipropetrovsk, and Donetsk) is about three times higher than rates in the rest of the country. A major reason for this is the fact that the urbanized and industrialized regions in the East and South of Ukraine suffered most from the economic crisis in the 90s, which in turn led to the spread of unemployment, alcoholism, and drug abuse, thus setting the conditions for wider spread of the epidemic.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2007, the primary means of HIV transmission was through injection drug use, but by 2008, sexual contact outpaced injection drug use as the primary form of transmission. By 2009, almost 44 percent of new infections occurred through sexual transmission, and 36 percent were through injecting drug use (according to USAID; according to CSIS in 2009 the proportion of new cases of HIV/AIDS attributable to injecting drug use was 60%).).\n\nIn 2007 about 0.96 percent of Ukrainians, or about 440,000 citizens, were estimated to be living with HIV/AIDS, down from 1.46 percent of the population in 2005, or 685,600 citizens, according to UNAIDS. The number of HIV/AIDS cases in Ukraine reduced by 200 or 3.9% to 4,900 in the period of January–November 2008, compared with the corresponding period of last year.In 2007 the majority of those infected where under 30 years of age; with a full 25% of those affected still in their teens.\n\nAlthough HIV/AIDS had remained concentrated among marginalized and vulnerable populations, it was feared in 2008 it may be spreading to the general population. According to the Ministry of Health, Ukraine has already surpassed the “optimistic” projections of an HIV/AIDS rate of 2% in 2010.\n\nAccording to the Health Ministry of Ukraine the HIV infection rate fell by 6.7% and mortality from AIDS was down by 7.9% in 2014.\n\nHIV travel restrictions: WWW.PLHIV.ORG\n\nBetween 1996 and 2001 about 26 percent in various prisons across Ukraine tested HIV- positive. In a January 2005 study between 15 and 30 percent of prisoners tested HIV- positive.\n\nEarly 2005 rates of up to 95 percent of the prisoners were found Hepatitis C positive.\n\nEarly 2010 there were over 147,000 people held at prisons and more than 38,000 at pre-trial detention facilities in Ukraine.\n\nThe number of children with AIDS in Ukraine is on the rise since the number of mothers with HIV grows by 20-30% annually. According to the United Nations, the number of pregnant women with HIV was 0.34% in 2007, which was the highest index in Europe. According to the United Nations, of nearly 18,000 children born by HIV-positive mothers in Ukraine, 10,200 children have not contracted HIV and another 5,500 children under eighteen months have yet to receive final results of an examination. In Ukraine, 1,877 children have been confirmed as HIV positive and 244 have died of AIDS. The United Nations notes that the program of preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV in Ukraine has cut the share of such transmission from 27% of the number of HIV cases in 2000 to 7% in 2006. According to the Health Ministry of Ukraine the HIV transmission from mother to a child was 4.28% in 2014 compared to 29% in 2004.\n\nFrom 2001 till June 2015 HIV-positive Ukrainian citizens were barred from travelling abroad and HIV-positive foreigners were forbidden to enter Ukraine.\n\nSince 2003, drug substitution programs have been introduced in Ukraine. By the end of September 2008, they were offered to about 2200 persons in 38 locations. Mostly Buprenorphine (Trademark ‘Subutex‘) is dispensed, which is significantly more expensive than Methadon. It is also less frequently used and thoroughly researched worldwide. Buprenophin is more accepted by society and politicians, however, because it is seen as a painkiller. Methadone, in contrast, is viewed as a drug subscribed at public expense.\n\nIn 2012 patients and advocacy groups complained of occasional supply shortages in Ukrainian AIDS clinics. In June 2012 advocacy groups accused Health Ministry officials of embezzling money that should be used to treat AIDS patients by buying AIDS drugs at hugely inflated prices and then receiving kickbacks.\n\nIn the War in Donbass the separatist authorities of the Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic have banned methadone and substitution therapy and have taken a hard line on drug addiction and have banned most international medical organizations. As a result, some people living with HIV/AIDS fled separatist-controlled areas, while most remain and suffer even further due to banishment of medical care on the matter in the secessionist-occupied regions.\n\nThe National AIDS Committee was established in 1992 but was dissolved in 1998 because of budget disputes. In 1999, the government created the National AIDS Control Coordinating Council under the Cabinet and mandated that all regions establish HIV prevention programs. In 2001, a national plan for combating HIV/AIDS was approved; its goals included preventing the further spread of HIV, developing the capacity to treat infected individuals, and providing social support and counseling for those living with HIV/AIDS. \n\nPrevention activities have been largely funded by international organizations. Because HIV testing is limited to government facilities, those at greatest risk are not being reached, since marginalized populations are the least likely to use government facilities. Stigma by the medical profession against persons living with HIV/AIDS is a major barrier to accessing information and services.\n\nThe first Ukrainian advocate group of/for Ukrainian AIDS patients was launched on December 10, 2010.\n\nNote: all statistics till late 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "29504236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29504236", "title": "Hart Blanton", "text": "Hart Blanton\n\nHart Blanton (Ph.D., Princeton University, 1994) is an American social psychologist. He is now professor of psychology at University of Connecticut.\n\nBlanton is known for his contributions to the field of social comparison, social influence and has also conducted research on implicit attitudes. He is recognized for authoring Deviance Regulation Theory and psychometric analysis of the Implicit Association Test.\n\n"}
{"id": "12335485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12335485", "title": "Haverhill fever", "text": "Haverhill fever\n\nHaverhill fever (or epidemic arthritic erythema) is a form of \"rat-bite fever\" caused by the bacterium \"Streptobacillus moniliformis\", an organism common in rats and mice. Symptoms begin to appear two to ten days after a rat bite injury. The illness resembles a severe influenza, with a moderate fever (38-40 °C, or 101-104 °F), chills, joint pain, and a diffuse red rash, located mostly on the hands and feet. The causative organism can be isolated by blood culture, and penicillin is the most common treatment. Treatment is usually quite successful, although the body can clear the infection by itself in most cases. Complications are rare, but can include endocarditis and meningitis.\n\nDespite its name, it can present without being bitten by a rat.\n\nThe disease was recognized from an outbreak which occurred in Haverhill, Massachusetts in January, 1926. The organism \"S. moniliformis\" was isolated from the patients. Epidemiology implicated infection via consumption of milk from one particular dairy.\n"}
{"id": "57944950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57944950", "title": "Health of Donald Trump", "text": "Health of Donald Trump\n\nSince the early days of Donald Trump's presidential campaign, his physical and mental health have been a subject of public debate. Trump was seventy years old when he took office, surpassing Ronald Reagan as the oldest person to assume the presidency. Comments on his age, weight and lifestyle have raised questions about his physical health. In addition, numerous public figures, media sources, and mental health professionals have speculated that Donald Trump may have mental health challenges, ranging from narcissistic personality disorder to some form of dementia. Trump and his supporters have denied these allegations, and have contested the authority and motives of persons making such claims.\n\nIn December 2015, Trump's personal physician, Harold Bornstein, released a superlative-laden letter of health praising Trump for \"extraordinary physical strength and stamina\". Bornstein later said that Trump himself had dictated the contents. A followup medical report showed Trump's blood pressure, liver and thyroid functions to be in normal ranges, and that he takes a statin.\n\nIn January 2018, Trump was examined by White House physician Ronny Jackson, who stated that he was in excellent health, although his weight and cholesterol level were higher than recommended, and that his cardiac assessment revealed no medical issues. Several outside cardiologists commented that Trump's weight, lifestyle and LDL cholesterol ought to have raised serious concerns about his cardiac health.\n\nTrump does not drink alcohol; this decision arose in part from watching his older brother Fred Jr. suffer from alcoholism that contributed to his early death in 1981. He also said that he has never smoked cigarettes or consumed drugs, including marijuana.\n\nOn May 1, 2018, Bornstein told NBC News that three Trump representatives had \"raided\" his office on February 3, 2017, taking all of Trump's medical records. He identified two of the men as Trump's longtime bodyguard Keith Schiller and the Trump Organization's chief legal officer Alan Garten. Two days earlier, Bornstein had told a reporter that Trump took a prescription hair growth medicine, Propecia, after which Trump cut ties with him.\n\nAs early as November 2015, \"Vanity Fair\" reported the opinion of a number of mental health experts that Trump had \"[t]extbook narcissistic personality disorder\". Bornstein's letter of December 2015, drafted in response to questions about the health of presidential candidates, did not address Trump's mental health, while claiming that he would be \"the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency\". Bornstein disclosed in 2018 that Trump had dictated this letter over the telephone. He said: \"Mr. Trump dictated the letter and I would tell him what he couldn't put in there.\" In August 2016, Bornstein stated that Trump's \"health is excellent, especially his mental health.\"\n\nIn February 2016, presidential candidate Jeb Bush speculated that Trump had mental health issues, stating \"I'm not a psychiatrist or a psychologist, but the guy needs therapy\". In early 2017, psychologist John Gartner collected more than 25,000 signatures of mental health professionals on a petition, directed to the national opposition leader, Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer. At the end of April 2017 he was able to forward the petition with more than 41,000 signatures of mental healthcare professionals to Washington D.C.. The core of the petition stated: \"My professional judgement is that Donald Trump manifests a serious mental illness that renders him psychologically incapable of competently discharging the duties of President of the United States. And I respectfully request him [sic] be removed from office, according to article 3 of the 25th Amendment, and so on\". Gartner asserted that Trump's mental handicaps are a mix of 1. narcissism, 2. paranoia; 3. sociopathy; and 4. a dash of sadism.\n\nOn April 14, 2017, Representatives Jamie Raskin and Earl Blumenauer introduced the Oversight Commission on Presidential Capacity Act. The bill would replace the Cabinet as the body that, together with the Vice President, determines whether to invoke Section 4 of the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which permits removal of a President who is mentally incapacitated. Under the bill, an eleven-member commission, including four psychiatrists, would conduct an examination of the President when directed to do so by a concurrent resolution of the Congress. Blumenauer stated:\n\nIn January 2018, North Korea's leader Kim Jong-un and Trump publicly exchanged claims about their respective \"nuclear buttons\". In reaction, Richard W. Painter, a former adviser to President George W. Bush, deemed Trump \"psychologically unfit\" and supported transferring his powers to Vice President Pence under the 25th Amendment. In April 2018 \"Vanity Fair\" reported that Trump's advisers \"worry about his mental health\" when he is outside the controls available in the White House environment.\n\nIn September 2017, Jeanne Suk Gerson wrote in \"The New Yorker\": \"A strange consensus does appear to be forming around Trump's mental state,\" including Democrats and Republicans who doubt Trump's fitness for office. Journalist Bill Moyers interviewed psychiatrist Robert Jay Lifton and said that Trump \"makes increasingly bizarre statements that are contradicted by irrefutable evidence to the contrary\". Lifton replied, \"He doesn’t have clear contact with reality, though I’m not sure it qualifies as a \"bona fide\" delusion.\" As an example, Lifton said, when Trump claimed that former president Barack Obama was born in Kenya, \"he was manipulating that lie as well as undoubtedly believing it in part.\"\n\nIn April 2017 forensic psychiatrist Bandy X. Lee hosted a meeting at Yale University medical school regarding the ethics of discussing Trump's mental health. In October 2017, Lee published \"The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump\", containing essays from 27 psychologists, psychiatrists, and mental health professionals on the \"clear and present danger\" that Trump's mental health poses to the \"nation and individual well being\". They argued that the president's issues affected the mental health of the United States population, and that he placed the country at grave risk of war because of his pathological traits. They defined Trump's behavior in terms of psychiatric diseases, such as narcissistic personality disorder. Carlos Lozada, writing for \"The Washington Post\", considered these conclusions \"compelling\", but also noted that the book contributors were writing from their own political perspective, as other mental health professionals differ. Lee and others contend that Trump's presidency represents an emergency allowing, or even requiring, psychiatrists to take exception from the APA's Goldwater rule, which holds that it is unethical for psychiatrists to give a professional opinion about public figures without having examined them in person, and without their consent.\n\nThe letter titled I Am Part of the Resistance Inside the Trump Administration published by the New York Times declares most if not all those working for Trump see him as mentally unfit for his job.\n\nIt has been asserted that Trump has signs of some degree of an early stage of dementia, constituting an inability to consistently remember facts, or respond appropriately to circumstances of his surroundings.\n\nOn several occasions, Trump has been reported as appearing to have mental lapses. In March 2017, Trump forgot to sign two executive orders before leaving a signing ceremony for those orders. On July 5, 2017, Trump, after deplaning from Air Force One, appeared confused and wandered away from his waiting limousine. On October 12, 2017, Trump initially forgot to sign the Trumpcare executive order before leaving the signing ceremony, but was ushered back to the table by Vice President Mike Pence to complete this step.\n\nIn July 2018, during a press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the 2018 Russia–United States summit in Helsinki, Trump made a statement interpreted by observers as indicating his inclination to accept Putin's denial of Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections, saying \"President Putin says it's not Russia. I don't see any reason why it would be\". Following criticism of this remark, Trump made a statement asserting that this was the result of a mental lapse, stating \"In a key sentence in my remarks, I said the word 'would' instead of 'wouldn't'\". Former Republican governor of New Jersey, Christine Todd Whitman wrote of this assertion that if Trump did make this error, \"it demonstrates his inability to articulate accurately U.S. foreign policy at the highest level, for the highest stakes\".\n\nTrump has dismissed questions regarding his mental health, stating that he is a \"very stable genius\". As evidence of his mental capacities, he pointed to his business success, his victory over Republican competitors, and his election to the presidency against Hillary Clinton.\n\nTrump and others have asserted that such questions are evidence of a problem with his critics, labeling them as suffering from a \"Trump derangement syndrome\" (TDS). For example, commenting on the book \"The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump\", RealClearPolitics writer Carl M. Cannon argued that the foreword by psychiatrist Robert Jay Lifton \"offers the melodramatic view that clinicians who don't warn the world about Donald Trump's shortcomings are akin to Nazi doctors who worked at Auschwitz. At the risk of practicing medicine without a license, I'd suggest that this historical comparison is \"de facto\" evidence of TDS – and paranoid grandiosity\".\n\nIn response to speculation about his cognitive abilities, Trump was administered the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) at his own request as part of his January 2018 health checkup. He received a score of 30/30, indicating a normal level of cognitive function. Critics have contended that the MoCA test is too basic to diagnose the problems asserted.\n\n"}
{"id": "15280748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15280748", "title": "Heart Rhythm Society", "text": "Heart Rhythm Society\n\nThe Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) is an international non-profit organization that promotes education and advocacy for cardiac arrhythmia professionals and patients. The Society was founded in 1979 and counted 5,100 members from over 70 countries as of January 2009. The Official Journal of the Heart Rhythm Society is Heart\"Rhythm\", which provides readers basic and clinical scientific developments devoted to arrhythmias, devices, and cardiovascular electrophysiology. The HRS is headquartered in Washington, DC, USA.\n\nThe Heart Rhythm Society (HRS), through its efforts during Atrial Fibrillation Awareness (AFib) Month in September and throughout the year, is working to increase public knowledge of AFib, including its symptoms, warning signs, and available treatment options.\n\nSudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) Awareness Month represents a critical initiative by the Heart Rhythm Society to raise awareness for SCA and help the public become more familiar with what it is, how it affects people, and what can be done to help save lives.\n\nThe Society's award-winning \"Apples and Oranges\" campaign uses a simple analogy to educate people about the difference between a heart attack and SCA. The campaign targets heart attack survivors, who are at the highest risk for SCA, and stresses the importance of maintaining a healthy heart lifestyle and learning critical risk markers, especially their Ejection Fraction (EF).\n\nIn October 2012, the Heart Rhythm Society launched a multi-year, national awareness campaign, Arrest the Risk, in an effort to elevate the issue of SCA prevention, early intervention, and appropriate treatment among the African-American and Hispanic populations; increase awareness of disparities at point of care; and positively impact SCA mortality and re-hospitalization rates in the U.S.\n\nThe Heart Rhythm Society's government advocacy efforts center on operating as an intermediary between regulatory agencies and its members. The society promotes programs to take action regarding legislation, creates and endorses clinical guidelines, and helps its members find funding opportunities from government agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH).\n\nThe Society also provides several educational initiatives including courses held throughout the year, certification and CME programs and an annual conference, called Scientific Sessions.\n\nPresidents of the Heart Rhythm Society from conception are listed below. Note that the leadership cycle is five years, with service as President being in the fourth year. This allows the Society to project presidents three years hence. Anne M. Gillis, whose election to the Presidency for the 2012-13 term was revealed at the May 2009 meeting of the Society, will become the second non-American to serve in that capacity. The first was Bernard S. Goldman in 1982. Both Dr. Gillis, Medical Director of Cardiac Pacing and Electrophysiology at the Libin Cardiovascular Institute of Alberta, and Dr. Goldman are Canadian.\n\n"}
{"id": "31542939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31542939", "title": "Hereditary cystatin C amyloid angiopathy", "text": "Hereditary cystatin C amyloid angiopathy\n\nHereditary cystatin C amyloid angiopathy (HCCAA) is a rare, fatal amyloid disease in young people in Iceland caused by a mutation in cystatin C. Most of the families with the defect gene can be traced to a region in the northwest of Iceland, around Breiðafjörður.\n\nMutations in the cystatin 3 gene are responsible for the Icelandic type of hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy, a condition predisposing to intracerebral haemorrhage, stroke and dementia. The condition is inherited in a dominant fashion.\n"}
{"id": "20595083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20595083", "title": "Hyperkinetic disorder", "text": "Hyperkinetic disorder\n\nHyperkinetic disorder is an outdated term for a psychiatric neurodevelopmental condition emerging in early childhood. Its features included an enduring pattern of severe, developmentally inappropriate symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity across different settings (e.g., home and school) that significantly impair academic, social and work performance. It was classified in the World Health Organization's ICD-10 and was roughly similar to the \"combined presentation\" of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in the American Psychiatric Association's DSM-5. However, in the ICD-11 the entry for hyperkinetic disorder no longer exists and is replaced by a\"ttention deficit hyperactivity disorder\".\n\nHyperkinetic people display disorganized, poorly controlled and excessive activity; they lack perseverance in tasks involving thought and attention, and tend to move from one activity to the next without completing any. They are frequently accident-prone, reckless and impulsive, and may thoughtlessly (rather than defiantly) break rules. Cognitive impairment and delayed language and motor development are more common in this group than in the general population; and they may experience low self-esteem and engage in dissocial behavior as a consequence of the disorder. \n\nWhile hyperkinetic children are commonly incautious and unreserved with adults, they might be isolated and unpopular with other children.\n\nThough the American Psychiatric Association's criteria for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and the World Health Organization's criteria for hyperkinetic disorder each list a very similar set of 18 symptoms, the differing rules governing diagnosis mean that hyperkinetic disorder features greater impairment and more impulse-control difficulties than typical ADHD, and it most resembles a severe case of ADHD combined type.\n\nUnlike ADHD, a diagnosis of hyperkinetic disorder requires that the clinician directly observes the symptoms (rather than relying only on parent and teacher reports); that onset must be by age 6 not 7; and that at least six inattention, three hyperactivity and one impulsivity symptom be present in two or more settings. While ADHD may exist comorbid with (in the presence of) mania or a depressive or anxiety disorder, the presence of one of these rules out a diagnosis of hyperkinetic disorder. Most cases of hyperkinetic disorder appear to meet the broader criteria of ADHD.\n\nHyperkinetic disorder may exist comorbid with conduct disorder, in which case the diagnosis is hyperkinetic conduct disorder.\n\nThe rate in school age children is thought to be about 1.5%, compared with an estimated 5.3% for ADHD.\n\nOnce the patient and family have been educated about the nature, management and treatment of the disorder and a decision has been made to treat, the European ADHD Guidelines group recommends medication rather than behavioral training as the first treatment approach; and the UK's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence recommends medication as first line treatment for those with hyperkinesis/severe ADHD, and the provision of group parent-training in all cases of ADHD.\n"}
{"id": "12114122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12114122", "title": "Joondalup Family Health Study", "text": "Joondalup Family Health Study\n\nThe Joondalup Family Health Study (JFHS) will be an extensively characterized, community-based cohort study, which will investigate the complex interplay of environmental, lifestyle and genetic components that affect the risk of common conditions such as asthma, heart disease and diabetes. The Study will take place in Joondalup, Western Australia and will have a strong focus on families and the health of both children and adults.\n\nThe Study is being led by a team of researchers from Western Australian Institute for Medical Research, The University of Western Australia, Edith Cowan University, Curtin University, Lions Eye Institute and Ear Science Institute Australia.\n\nHis Excellency Dr Kenneth Comninos Michael AC, Governor of Western Australia is the Patron of the JFHS.\n\nClinical Professor Fiona Wood AM is the Medical Patron of the JFHS.\n\nThis longitudinal study will seek to collect extensive data (over 3,000 measures on each person) from up to 80,000 participants, who will be asked to undergo a comprehensive health check approximately every 3 years. The appointment will include questions about lifestyle and diet, in addition to height, weight and other tests such as heart, lung, vision and hearing tests.\n\nJFHS Phase 1 will pilot the Study with 2,000 participants, ~ 700 nuclear families, including adults and children (6 years and up). Phase 1 will also be a stand-alone study, which will produce validated research methods, data and analysis.\n\nPhase 1 will collect data on under-researched but important conditions in the Australian community. The areas chosen cover both clinical and social areas of health:\n\nJFHS Phase 2 will expand on the JFHS Phase 1 cohort and seek to collect over 3,500 measures from up to 80,000 volunteers from Joondalup every three years.\n\nIn addition to the research areas described in Phase 1, detailed parameters will be collected within the following major research areas: \n\nFor Phase 1, participants will be a community-based, randomly selected sample of 2000 eligible individuals living in the community of Joondalup. Only households in which two or more generations of families are living together with children over the age of 6 years will be studied.\n\nFor Phase 2, all residents living in Joondalup will be eligible to participate.\n\nParticipants who choose to take part in the JFHS will be asked to complete a questionnaire on their medical history, behaviours and lifestyle, mental health and community participation. They will also be asked to attend the Health & Wellness Building at Edith Cowan University to have physical measurements taken. Participants will also be asked for a blood sample.\n\nAn extensive program of community outreach has been conducted by the JFHS team. This included a detailed postal survey of 7,500 residents and a Community Forum. Of those who responded (16% of total surveyed), 96% believed that it was very or quite important to conduct a large-scale family health study; 85% were very or quite interested in participating in the JFHS; and 85% were very or quite likely to allow their children to participate.\n\nMetropolitan general practitioners were also surveyed on their views on a genome health project. This survey found that most GPs were supportive of such a project, and the majority of those surveyed would be willing to discuss and recruit patients for the project.\n\nOther outreach activities have included briefing members of parliament, information stalls at Lakeside Shopping Centre, interactive displays and articles in community and council newsletters.\n\nThe JFHS has been endorsed by community leaders representing the City of Joondalup - including local, state and federal parliamentarians.\n\nWestern Australian health groups who have endorsed the JFHS include:\n\nNational and international organisations who have endorsed the JFHS include:\n\n\nThe Joondalup Family Health Study will build on the experience of a number of previous large cohort studies that have been conducted in Western Australia, including the Busselton Health Study, the Health-in-Men Study, and the Raine Cohort Study.\n\n"}
{"id": "38745840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38745840", "title": "Kloka Anna i Vallåkra", "text": "Kloka Anna i Vallåkra\n\nAnna Jönsdotter (1820–1896), known as Kloka Anna i Vallåkra (Wise Anna of Vallåkra) or Vallåkraflickan (The Vallåkra Girl), was a Swedish cunning woman and natural healer. She was widely known and aroused considerable attention by her contemporaries through her alleged divine visions and her ability to heal the sick. \n\nIn 1837, Anna Jönsdotter lost consciousness on the field during the harvest work. Awakening, she claimed to have had divine visions and to have been granted the ability to heal the sick from God. After this day, she was active as a healer, and draw a lot of attention. She was at one point accused of quackery. In 1837–1838, she made a tour in Denmark, where she appeared before the monarch at the royal court to demonstrate her ability. She retired from healing after her marriage, with the claim that she lost her ability after her sexual debut.\n\n"}
{"id": "9024703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9024703", "title": "List of UN numbers 1701 to 1800", "text": "List of UN numbers 1701 to 1800\n\nThe UN numbers from UN1701 to UN1800 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "13028404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13028404", "title": "Lives at Risk", "text": "Lives at Risk\n\nLives at Risk is a book about modern health care systems. It examines the flaws of current health care systems and proposes reforms for the American health care system. In doing so it examines twenty common assumptions about government involvement in health care systems which they argue are myths. The book continues on to discuss the economics and politics behind health care in the United States, and proposes market based reforms.\n\nIt begins by examining how three fundamental facts about health care systems.\n\n\nThe authors contend that Americans could potentially spend their entire GDP on medical testing alone.\nThey further explain that as people become older and wealthier, they naturally spend more of their money on health care.\n\nThey explain how the suppression of normal market forces, in conjunction with the first two facts, has created the problems currently faced with health care in the United States and abroad.\n\nThe authors examine whether countries other than the United States have been able to solve the problems listed above. Since the stated goals of national health insurance are often to make health care available based on need rather than ability to pay, they state that\n\n\nThey claim that this situation is the natural result of putting politicians in charge of health care, as the policies tend to maximize the number of voters serviced rather than achieving the goals of equality. \n\nThe authors explain that most European countries with a national health care system have introduced market based reforms and relied on the private sector to reduce costs and increase the availability and effectiveness of health care. Some examples include\n\n\nThe authors state that the goal of the book is to dispel myths about health care as delivered in countries with national health insurance. Further, they desired to explain why the American system is bad, why the nationalized systems are worse, and how to reform the American system without making the same mistake made by many other countries.\n\nAccording to the book, citizens in countries with national health care systems do not have an entitlement to health care. (See also Accuracy below). The book claims that the only country in the world that provides an entitlement to any health care service is the United States, whose citizens are legally entitled to kidney dialysis treatment; that citizens of other countries are not entitled to any particular treatment; and that while many citizens under national health care systems are allowed to wait in line for services, they are not even entitled to hold a place in line, as other patients may jump the queue.\n\nAll these claims are highly dubious and are not sustantiable because clearly there are very many cases where all citizens in other countries with national health care systems that are entitled to a wide range of health care services (not just dialysis). The UK has many examples of guaranteed maximum wait times (e.g. 2 weeks to see a specialist for a suspected cancer for example).\n\nThe book claims that the elderly, minorities, and rural areas are all discriminated against in national systems and that the systems do not make care available based on need.\n\nThe British National Health Service was championed in 1950s as a way to end inequalities in health care. After thirty years the Black Report found inequality had not changed, and after fifty years the Acheson Report found that it had widened. Furthermore, health care quality in different parts of Britain varies greatly, with higher quality care being found in the wealthier areas.\n\nLarge geographic disparity in health care has been observed in Canada as well, where the amount of money spent on urban patients was many times larger than that spent on rural patients. High-profile Canadian patients such as politicians and the wealthy enjoy more frequent services, shorter waiting times, and greater choice in specialists.\n\nThe book claims that national health care systems make treatment available on the basis of need rather than ability to pay is also discussed as a myth. While British NHS gives preferential treatment to paying customers, such as foreigners, many Britons opt to pay out of pocket for private services in order to avoid waiting for public health care.\n\nPriorities do not go towards having the greatest impact on health. Outcomes of national systems are of lower quality. Modern technology is less available under national systems. Prescription drugs are less available under national systems.\n\nThe authors contend that the United States' high infant mortality and mediocre life expectancy are not indicative of the quality of health care. In the latter case, they note that while Japan has a longer life expectancy, Japanese Americans enjoy the same long life expectancy. Similarly, infant mortality among Asians is low in Asian countries and in the US.\n\nThe United States has a better survival rate for prostate cancer and breast cancer than most industrialized countries.\n\nThe authors point out that access to modern medical technology is better in the United States than in countries with national health care systems.\n\nAdministrative costs, costs to patients, and unnecessary care go up while efficiency goes down.\nCitizens under national health care system do not get more preventative care than Americans.\nThe overhead of managed care systems in the US is less than that of national systems.\n\nA national system would not improve America's international competitiveness in industry.\n\nCosts of prescription drugs are comparable in national systems and in the US.\n\nPublic opinion of national health care has decreased rapidly since its inception in various countries.\n\nLarge organizations such as car manufacturers, cities, or states do not need federal action to implement single payer systems.\n\nThe proposal to reform the American health care system is to restructure the social safety net so that it rewards people who take care of their own health care needs while providing disincentives for those who rely on the safety net. The goal is to make it so that the economic impact of a person's choice to take care of themselves or to use the safety net is economically neutral to the rest of society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342304", "title": "Lumbar puncture", "text": "Lumbar puncture\n\nLumbar puncture (LP), also known as a spinal tap, is a medical procedure in which a needle is inserted into the spinal canal, most commonly to collect cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for diagnostic testing. The main reason for a lumbar puncture is to help diagnose diseases of the central nervous system, including the brain and spine. Examples of these conditions include meningitis and subarachnoid hemorrhage. It may also be used therapeutically in some conditions. Increased intracranial pressure (pressure in the skull) is a contraindication, due to risk of brain matter being compressed and pushed toward the spine. Sometimes, lumbar puncture cannot be performed safely (for example due to a severe bleeding tendency). It is regarded as a safe procedure, but post-dural-puncture headache is a common side effect.\n\nThe procedure is typically performed under local anesthesia using a sterile technique. A hypodermic needle is used to access the subarachnoid space and fluid collected. Fluid may be sent for biochemical, microbiological, and cytological analysis.\n\nLumbar puncture was first introduced in 1891 by the German physician Heinrich Quincke.\n\nThe reason for a lumbar puncture may be to make a diagnosis or to treat a disease.\n\nThe chief diagnostic indications of lumbar puncture are for collection of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Analysis of CSF may exclude infectious, inflammatory, and neoplastic diseases affecting the central nervous system. The most common purpose is in suspected meningitis, since there is no other reliable tool with which meningitis, a life-threatening but highly treatable condition, can be excluded. A lumbar puncture can also be used to detect whether someone has 'Stage 1' or 'Stage 2' Trypanosoma brucei. Young infants commonly require lumbar puncture as a part of the routine workup for fever without a source. This is due to higher rates of meningitis than in older persons. Infants also do not reliably show classic symptoms of meningeal irritation (meningismus) like neck stiffness and headache the way adults do. In any age group, subarachnoid hemorrhage, hydrocephalus, benign intracranial hypertension, and many other diagnoses may be supported or excluded with this test. It may also be used to detect the presence of malignant cells in the CSF, as in carcinomatous meningitis or medulloblastoma. CSF containing less than 10 red blood cells (RBCs)/mm³ constitutes a \"negative\" tap in the context of a workup for subarachnoid hemorrhage, for example. Taps that are \"positive\" have an RBC count of 100/mm³ or more.\n\nLumbar punctures may also be done to inject medications into the cerebrospinal fluid (\"intrathecally\"), particularly for spinal anesthesia or chemotherapy.\n\nSerial lumbar punctures may be useful in temporary treatment of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH). This disease is characterized by increased pressure of CSF which may cause headache and permanent loss of vision. While mainstays of treatment are medication, in some cases lumbar puncture performed multiple times may improve symptoms. It is not recommended as a staple of treatment due to discomfort and risk of the procedure, and the short duration of its efficacy.\n\nAdditionally, some people with normal pressure hydrocephalus (characterized by urinary incontinence, a changed ability to walk properly, and dementia) receive some relief of symptoms after removal of CSF.\n\nLumbar puncture should not be performed in the following situations:\n\nPost spinal headache with nausea is the most common complication; it often responds to pain medications and infusion of fluids. It was long taught that this complication can be prevented by strict maintenance of a supine posture for two hours after the successful puncture; this has not been borne out in modern studies involving large numbers of people. Doing the procedure with the person on their side might decrease the risk. Intravenous caffeine injection is often quite effective in aborting these spinal headaches. A headache that is persistent despite a long period of bedrest and occurs only when sitting up may be indicative of a CSF leak from the lumbar puncture site. It can be treated by more bedrest, or by an epidural blood patch, where the person's own blood is injected back into the site of leakage to cause a clot to form and seal off the leak.\n\nThe risk of headache and need for analgesia and blood patch is much reduced if \"atraumatic\" needles are used. This does not affect the success rate of the procedure in other ways.\n\nContact between the side of the lumbar puncture needle and a spinal nerve root can result in anomalous sensations (paresthesia) in a leg during the procedure; this is harmless and people can be warned about it in advance to minimize their anxiety if it should occur.\n\nSerious complications of a properly performed lumbar puncture are extremely rare. They include spinal or epidural bleeding, adhesive arachnoiditis and trauma to the spinal cord or spinal nerve roots resulting in weakness or loss of sensation, or even paraplegia. The latter is exceedingly rare, since the level at which the spinal cord ends (normally the inferior border of L1, although it is slightly lower in infants) is several vertebral spaces above the proper location for a lumbar puncture (L3/L4). There are case reports of lumbar puncture resulting in perforation of abnormal dural arterio-venous malformations, resulting in catastrophic epidural hemorrhage; this is exceedingly rare.\n\nThe procedure is not recommended when epidural infection is present or suspected, when topical infections or dermatological conditions pose a risk of infection at the puncture site or in patients with severe psychosis or neurosis with back pain. Some authorities believe that withdrawal of fluid when initial pressures are abnormal could result in spinal cord compression or cerebral herniation; others believe that such events are merely coincidental in time, occurring independently as a result of the same pathology that the lumbar puncture was performed to diagnose. In any case, computed tomography of the brain is often performed prior to lumbar puncture if an intracranial mass is suspected.\n\nThe brain and spinal cord are enveloped by a layer of cerebrospinal fluid, 125-150 ml in total (in adults) which acts as a shock absorber and provides a medium for the transfer of nutrients and waste products. The majority is produced by the choroid plexus in the brain and circulates from there to other areas, before being reabsorbed into the circulation (predominantly by the arachnoid granulations).\n\nThe cerebrospinal fluid can be accessed most safely in the lumbar cistern. Below the first or second lumbar vertebrae (L1 or L2) the spinal cord terminates (conus medullaris). Nerves continue down the spine below this, but in a loose bundle of nerve fibers called the cauda equina. There is lower risk with inserting a needle into the spine at the level of the cauda equina because these loose fibers move out of the way of the needle without being damaged. The lumbar cistern extends into the sacrum.\n\nThe person is usually placed on their side (left more commonly than right). The patient bends the neck so the chin is close to the chest, hunches the back, and brings knees toward the chest. This approximates a fetal position as much as possible. Patients may also sit on a stool and bend their head and shoulders forward. The area around the lower back is prepared using aseptic technique. Once the appropriate location is palpated, local anaesthetic is infiltrated under the skin and then injected along the intended path of the spinal needle. A spinal needle is inserted between the lumbar vertebrae L3/L4, L4/L5 or L5/S1 and pushed in until there is a \"give\" as it enters the lumbar cistern wherein the ligamentum flavum is housed. The needle is again pushed until there is a second 'give' that indicates the needle is now past the dura mater. The arachnoid membrane and the dura mater exist in flush contact with one another in the living person's spine due to fluid pressure from CSF in the subarachnoid space pushing the arachnoid membrane out towards the dura. Therefore, once the needle has pierced the dura mater it has also traversed the thinner arachnoid membrane. The needle is then in the subarachnoid space. The stylet from the spinal needle is then withdrawn and drops of cerebrospinal fluid are collected. The opening pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid may be taken during this collection by using a simple column manometer. The procedure is ended by withdrawing the needle while placing pressure on the puncture site. The spinal level is so selected to avoid spinal injuries. In the past, the patient would lie on their back for at least six hours and be monitored for signs of neurological problems. There is no scientific evidence that this provides any benefit. The technique described is almost identical to that used in spinal anesthesia, except that spinal anesthesia is more often done with the patient in a seated position.\n\nThe upright seated position is advantageous in that there is less distortion of spinal anatomy which allows for easier withdrawal of fluid. Some practitioners prefer it for lumbar puncture in obese patients, where lying on their side would cause a scoliosis and unreliable anatomical landmarks. However, opening pressures are notoriously unreliable when measured in the seated position. Therefore, patients will ideally lie on their side if practitioners need to measure opening pressure.\n\nReinsertion of the stylet may decrease the rate of post lumbar puncture headaches.\n\nAlthough not available in all clinical settings, use of ultrasound is helpful for visualizing the interspinous space and assessing the depth of the spine from the skin. Use of ultrasound reduces the number of needle insertions and redirections, and results in higher rates of successful lumbar puncture. If the procedure is difficult, such as in people with spinal deformities such as scoliosis, it can also be performed under fluoroscopy (under continuous X-ray imaging).\n\nIn children, a sitting flexed position was as successful as lying on the side with respect to obtaining non-traumatic CSF, CSF for culture, and cell count. There was a higher success rate in obtaining CSF in the first attempt in infants younger than 12 months in the sitting flexed position.\n\nThe spine of an infant at the time of birth differs from the adult spine. The \"conus medullaris\" (bottom of the spinal cord) terminates at the level of L1 in adults, but may range in term neonates (newly born babies) from L1-L3 levels. It is important to insert the spinal needle below the conus medullaris at the L3/L4 or L4/L5 interspinous levels. With growth of the spine, the conus typically reaches the adult level (L1) by 2 years of age.\n\nThe \"ligamentum flavum\" and \"dura mater\" are not as thick in infants and children as they are in adults. Therefore, it is difficult to assess when the needle passes through them into the subarachnoid space because the characteristic \"pop\" or \"give\" may be subtle or nonexistent in the pediatric lumbar puncture. To decrease the chances of inserting the spinal needle too far, some clinicians use the \"Cincinnati\" method. This method involves removing the stylet of the spinal needle once the needle has advanced through the dermis. After removal of the stylet, the needle is inserted until CSF starts to come out of the needle. Once all of the CSF is collected, the stylet is then reinserted before removal of the needle.\n\nAnalysis of the cerebrospinal fluid generally includes a cell count and determination of the glucose and protein concentrations. The other analytical studies of cerebrospinal fluid are conducted according to the diagnostic suspicion.\n\nIncreased CSF pressure can indicate congestive heart failure, cerebral edema, subarachnoid hemorrhage, hypo-osmolality resulting from hemodialysis, meningeal inflammation, purulent meningitis or tuberculous meningitis, hydrocephalus, or pseudotumor cerebri. In the setting of raised pressure (or normal pressure hydrocephalus, where the pressure is normal but there is excessive CSF), lumbar puncture may be therapeutic.\n\nDecreased CSF pressure can indicate complete subarachnoid blockage, leakage of spinal fluid, severe dehydration, hyperosmolality, or circulatory collapse. Significant changes in pressure during the procedure can indicate tumors or spinal blockage resulting in a large pool of CSF, or hydrocephalus associated with large volumes of CSF.\n\nThe presence of white blood cells in cerebrospinal fluid is called pleocytosis. A small number of monocytes can be normal; the presence of granulocytes is always an abnormal finding. A large number of granulocytes often heralds bacterial meningitis. White cells can also indicate reaction to repeated lumbar punctures, reactions to prior injections of medicines or dyes, central nervous system hemorrhage, leukemia, recent epileptic seizure, or a metastatic tumor. When peripheral blood contaminates the withdrawn CSF, a common procedural complication, white blood cells will be present along with erythrocytes, and their ratio will be the same as that in the peripheral blood.\n\nThe finding of erythrophagocytosis, where phagocytosed erythrocytes are observed, signifies haemorrhage into the CSF that preceded the lumbar puncture. Therefore, when erythrocytes are detected in the CSF sample, erythrophagocytosis suggests causes other than a traumatic tap, such as intracranial haemorrhage and haemorrhagic herpetic encephalitis. In which case, further investigations are warranted, including imaging and viral culture.\n\nCSF can be sent to the microbiology lab for various types of smears and cultures to diagnose infections.\n\nSeveral substances found in cerebrospinal fluid are available for diagnostic measurement.\n\nThe first technique for accessing the dural space was described by the London physician Walter Essex Wynter. In 1889 he developed a crude cut down with cannulation in four patients with tuberculous meningitis. The main purpose was the treatment of raised intracranial pressure rather than for diagnosis. The technique for needle lumbar puncture was then introduced by the German physician Heinrich Quincke, who credits Wynter with the earlier discovery; he first reported his experiences at an internal medicine conference in Wiesbaden, Germany, in 1891. He subsequently published a book on the subject.\n\nThe lumbar puncture procedure was taken to the United States by Arthur H. Wentworth an assistant professor at the Harvard Medical School, based at Children's Hospital. In 1893 he published a long paper on diagnosing cerebrospinal meningitis by examining spinal fluid. However, he was criticized by antivivisectionists for having obtained spinal fluid from children. He was acquitted, but, nevertheless, he was uninvited from the then forming Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, where he would have been the first professor of pediatrics.\n\nHistorically lumbar punctures were also employed in the process of performing a pneumoencephalography, a nowadays obsolete X-ray imaging study of the brain that was performed extensively from the 1920s until the advent of modern non-invasive neuroimaging techniques such as MRI and CT in the 1970s. During this quite painful procedure, CSF was replaced with air or some other gas via the lumbar puncture in order to enhance the appearance of certain areas of the brain on plain radiographs.\n"}
{"id": "31601160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31601160", "title": "Ministry of Health (Italy)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Italy)\n\nThe Ministry of Health () is a governmental agency of Italy. Its headquarters are in Rome and is led by the Italian Minister of Health.\n\nThe Ministry developed the Italian Food Pyramid (\"Piramide Alimentare Italiana\") to guide food and meal planning. The divisions show healthy intake of water, fruits and vegetables, starches (bread, biscotti, pasta, etc.), protein (meat, cold cut meats, eggs, fish, etc.), milk and dairy, and occasional uses (oils, sweets, and alcohol). The pyramid is intended to represent the variety of foods eaten over an entire week, averaged into daily portions.\n\nAn example of their legislation is the Italian Device Registration to meet (and exceed) the EEC's Medical Devices Directive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18373244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18373244", "title": "Oxidopamine", "text": "Oxidopamine\n\nOxidopamine, also known as 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenethylamine, is a neurotoxic synthetic organic compound used by researchers to selectively destroy dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons in the brain. 6-OHDA is thought to enter the neurons via the dopamine and noradrenaline (norepinephrine) reuptake transporters. Oxidopamine is often used in conjunction with a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (such as desipramine) to selectively destroy dopaminergic neurons.\n\nThe main use for oxidopamine in scientific research is to induce Parkinsonism in laboratory animals such as mice, rats and monkeys, in order to develop and test new medicines and treatments for Parkinson's disease. In order to induce this condition in animals, around 70% of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the brain must be destroyed, and this is achieved either with oxidopamine or MPTP. Both these agents likely destroy neurons by generating reactive oxygen species such as superoxide radical. Oxidopamine toxicity in neonatal rodents is also used as an animal model for the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.\n\n"}
{"id": "794853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794853", "title": "Paediatric Glasgow Coma Scale", "text": "Paediatric Glasgow Coma Scale\n\nThe Paediatric Glasgow Coma Scale (BrE) (also known as Pediatric Glasgow Coma Score (AmE) or simply PGCS) is the equivalent of the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) used to assess the level of consciousness of child patients. As many of the assessments for an adult patient would not be appropriate for infants, the Glascow Coma Scale was modified slightly to form the PGCS. As with the GCS, the PGCS comprises three tests: eye, verbal and motor responses. The three values separately as well as their sum are considered. The lowest possible PGCS (the sum) is 3 (deep coma or death) whilst the highest is 15 (fully awake and aware person). The pediatric GCS is commonly used in emergency medical services.\n\nSource:\n\nAny combined score of less than eight represents a significant risk of mortality.\n\n"}
{"id": "1718488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718488", "title": "Pathfinder International", "text": "Pathfinder International\n\nPathfinder International, based in Watertown, Massachusetts, is a global non-profit organization (NGO 501(c)(3)) that focuses on reproductive health, family planning, HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and maternal health. The organization operates in more than 20 developing countries throughout Africa, Asia, the Near East, and Latin America. According to their website, \"Pathfinder International places reproductive health services at the center of all that we do—believing that health care is not only a fundamental human right but is critical for expanding opportunities for women, families, communities, and nations, while paving the way for transformations in development.\"\n\nWhile Pathfinder International was originally incorporated as The Pathfinder Fund in 1957, their family planning work began in the late 1920s when Pathfinder founder, Clarence Gamble, heir of the Procter & Gamble soap company fortune, supported efforts to introduce contraception to women and couples in the United States and 60 other countries. He also launched the first community-based service model, which is still the foundation of Pathfinder’s success today.\n\nSarah Gamble, Clarence Gamble's wife, named the organization in honor of a quote by the poet Antonio Machado, \"Traveler, there is no path, paths are made by walking.\"\n\nPathfinder surpassed revenue of USD 100 million for the first time in 2010 (FY). In 2011, Pathfinder announced the retirement of Daniel E. Pellegrom, the longest-serving president of a global reproductive health organization in history after becoming CEO of Pathfinder International in 1985. In 2012, Purnima Mane joined Pathfinder as President and CEO, after serving as Deputy Director of United Nations Population Fund.\n\nLois Quam, named three times to FORTUNE’s list of the most influential women leaders in business, became Pathfinder's President & CEO in 2017. She has served as chief operating officer of The Nature Conservancy and as a senior advisor to Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, and was selected by President Obama to head his signature Global Health Initiative at the Department of State, which provided more than $8 billion annually to help solve major health challenges facing millions of individuals across 80 countries.\n\nPathfinder was one of several nonprofits mentioned in Half the Sky: Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide, a best-selling book written by Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn and first published in September 2009. Pathfinder is currently listed as a key partner on the Half the Sky Movement website.\n\nIn 2017, Pathfinder celebrates its 60th anniversary.\n\nPathfinder International works together with many organizations, ranging from national ministries of health to local NGOs, to deliver reproductive health and family planning information and services to women, young adults, and rural populations. Pathfinder's programs also integrate HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment activities. The group has worked with UN Women, UNFPA, World Bank and a number of other partners to organize different programs and projects.\n\nPathfinder operates family planning and reproductive health programs in more than 20 countries in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America, offering training for service providers and managers, and technical assistance to grantee organizations.\n\n\n\n\n\nMost of the group's funding comes from the United States Agency for International Development, totaling more than $160 million in fiscal year 2017. In addition, the organization receives funding from multilaterals, private foundations, and individuals.\n\nAs part of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, US government support for AIDS prevention was contingent on opposing prostitution starting in 2003. Pathfinder preferred to remain neutral so as not to alienate sex workers from their anti-HIV efforts so they sued in federal court with other non-profits. In 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court found that the requirement violated the First Amendment's prohibition against compelled speech in \"Agency for International Development v. Alliance for Open Society International, Inc.\" In early 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court returned with another ruling in favor of the Alliance for Open Society International. The latest decision affirmed a 2013 decision by the U.S. Supreme Court, which found that the government cannot tell its American grantees what they can and cannot say.\n\nLike many older birth control organizations, Pathfinder initially overlapped with the eugenics movement. The founder, Clarence Gamble, was a member of Human Betterment League of North Carolina and advocated forced sterilization of mental patients.\n\nDuring the 1970s, the organization was accused of distributing unsafe contraceptives. Specifically, Pathfinder continued to distribute the Dalkon Shield internationally after it had been pulled from the U.S. market due to high infection rates and used Depo-Provera when it was still considered experimental prior to FDA approval.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25003876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25003876", "title": "Pungency", "text": "Pungency\n\nPungency is the condition of having a strong, sharp smell or flavor that is often so strong that it is unpleasant; for example, the pungent smell of a dirty animal. \"Pungency\" is the technical term used by scientists to refer to the characteristic of food commonly referred to as spiciness or hotness and sometimes heat, which is found in foods such as chili peppers. \n\nThe term piquancy () is sometimes applied to foods with a lower degree of pungency that are \"agreeably stimulating to the palate.\" Examples of piquant food include mustard and curry.\n\nThe terms \"pungent\" () and \"pungency\" are rarely used in colloquial speech but are preferred by scientists as they eliminate the potential ambiguity arising from use of the words \"hot\" and \"spicy\", which can also refer to temperature and the presence of spices, respectively.\n\nFor instance, a pumpkin pie can be both hot (out of the oven) and spicy (due to the common inclusion of spices such as cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, mace, and cloves), but it is not \"pungent\". (A food critic may nevertheless use the word \"piquant\" to describe such a pie, especially if it is exceptionally well-seasoned.) Conversely, pure capsaicin is pungent, yet it is not naturally accompanied by a hot temperature or spices.\n\nAs the Oxford, Collins, and Merriam-Webster dictionaries explain, the term \"piquancy\" refers to mild pungency and flavors and spices that are much less strong than chilli peppers, including, for example, the strong flavor of some tomatoes. In other words, pungency always refers to a very strong taste whereas piquancy refers to any spices and foods that are \"agreeably stimulating to the palate\", in other words to food that is spicy in the general sense of \"well-spiced\".\n\nPungency is often quantified in scales that range from mild to hot. The Scoville scale measures the pungency of chili peppers, as defined by the amount of capsaicin they contain.\nPungency is not considered a taste in the technical sense because it is carried to the brain by a different set of nerves. While taste nerves are activated when consuming foods like chili peppers, the sensation commonly interpreted as \"hot\" results from the stimulation of somatosensory fibers in the mouth. Many parts of the body with exposed membranes that lack taste receptors (such as the nasal cavity, genitals, or a wound) produce a similar sensation of heat when exposed to pungent agents.\n\nThe pungent sensation provided by chili peppers, black pepper and other spices like ginger and horseradish plays an important role in a diverse range of cuisines across the world, such as Korean, Persian, Turkish, Tunisian, Ethiopian, Hungarian, Indian, Burmese, Indonesian, Laotian, Singaporean, Malaysian, Bangladeshi, Mexican, Peruvian, Caribbean, Pakistani, Somali cuisine, Southwest Chinese (including Sichuan cuisine), Sri Lankan, Vietnamese, and Thai cuisines.\n\nThe scientific term for the effect of pungency is chemesthesis. Substances such as piperine and capsaicin cause a burning sensation by inducing a trigeminal nerve reaction together with normal taste reception. The pungent feeling caused by allyl isothiocyanate, capsaicin, piperine, and allicin is caused by activation of the heat thermo- and chemosensitive TRP ion channels including TRPV1 and TRPA1 nociceptors.\nThe pungency of chilies may be an adaptive response to selection by microbial pathogens.\n\n"}
{"id": "4533331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4533331", "title": "Ray Blanchard", "text": "Ray Blanchard\n\nRay Milton Blanchard (; born October 9, 1945) is an American-Canadian sexologist, best known for his research studies on pedophilia, transsexualism, and sexual orientation. He has also published research studies on phallometry and several paraphilias, including transvestism and autoerotic asphyxia.\n\nBlanchard was born in Hammonton, New Jersey. He received his A.B. in psychology from the University of Pennsylvania in 1967 and his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois in 1973. He conducted postdoctoral research at Dalhousie University until 1976, when he accepted a position as a clinical psychologist at the Ontario Correctional Institute in Brampton, Ontario, Canada (a suburb of Toronto). There, Blanchard met Kurt Freund, who became his mentor. Freund was conducting research in chemical castration for sex offenders. In 1980, he joined the Clarke Institute of Psychiatry (now part of the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health). In 1995 Blanchard was named Head of Clinical Sexology Services in the Law and Mental Health Programme of the CAMH, where he served until 2010. He is an adjunct Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Toronto. He served on the American Psychiatric Association DSM-IV Subcommittee on Gender Identity Disorders and was named to the DSM-5 committee. According to the Web of Science, Blanchard's scientific articles have been cited more than 1800 times, with an h-index of 27.\n\nBlanchard has conducted research on factors that influence the development of sexual orientation, including biological factors. He has proposed a theory known as a fraternal birth order effect or older brother effect. This theory is that the more older brothers a man has, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual sexual orientation. The number of older \"sisters\" has no effect, however. The same is not true for lesbians—neither the number of older brothers nor the number of older sisters appears to be related to the sexual orientation of women. The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as \"the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men\", with each older brother increasing a man's odds of being gay by about 33%.\n\nBlanchard hypothesizes that the older brother effect is caused by interactions between a male fetus and the immune system of the mother: Because certain proteins (called H-y antigens) are produced by male and not by female fetuses, the mother's immune system reacts only to male fetuses and is more likely to produce a reaction with each successive exposure to a male fetus.\n\nBlanchard coined the term \"autogynephilia\" to describe trans women with an erotic desire \"to be women,\" and hypothesized that all gender dysphoria experienced by this group is of two types: \"homosexual\" gender dysphoria and \"non-homosexual\" gender dysphoria. Blanchard defined the former as being present in transsexuals attracted to men, while he defined the latter as being present in transsexuals attracted to the idea of themselves as women. Within the transgender community the idea has been criticized. Blanchard's findings and research have been rejected by the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH), the largest association of medical professionals who provides care for transsexual people, as lacking empirical evidence.\n\nBlanchard supports public funding of sex reassignment surgery as an appropriate treatment for transsexual people, as he believes the available evidence supports that the surgery helps them live more comfortably and happily, with high satisfaction rates.\n\nBlanchard defined autogynephilic as “a man's paraphilic tendency to be sexually aroused by the thought or image of himself as a woman”. He researched this theory by conducting a test on a sample of 119 MtF transsexuals who submitted an anonymous questionnaire to test if they were autogynephilic or homosexual. Blanchard believed that not all transsexuals fit in the category of “homosexual” and that some were instead autogynephilic transsexuals. Transsexuals who are autogynephilic can be classified as “sexually attracted to females gynephilic, both sexes bisexual, or neither sex alloerotic”. Those who were autogynephilic lived out their life as men until they decided to transition. On the other hand, those who were considered homosexual transsexuals “androphilia” and were sexually attracted to men, were born feminine before transition. Blanchard’s goal in his research was to give a better understanding on various manifestations of transsexuality. Many who read his theory criticized it. They defined autogynephilia as a psychological theory that undermines trans women’s identities. Those who participated in his survey felt that they were neither homosexual nor autogynephilic transsexuals and should not be classified in either group. A majority felt that the sexual attraction to become a women weakened with age, but others reported that they had noticed a change after physical transition. Blanchard ultimately concluded that transsexuals were either sexually aroused by men, androphilic, or aroused by the thought of being a women, nonandrophilic.\n\nThe number of openly transgender women has rapidly increased over the past several decades. More and more individuals have undergone operations and hormone therapy to completely transition into women. They believe that their gender identity, defined as “one’s inner sense of being male or female, masculine or feminine”, did not match the body they were in. According to Blanchard, “Autogynephilic transsexuals were men who were also sexually attracted to women, but whose paraphilic sexual interest made them want to go farther and permanently change their bodies to become the objects of their attraction”.\n\nBlanchard coined the term \"teleiophilia\" to refer to a sexual preference for adults. Unlike the terms referring to sexual interest in other age groups, such as pedophilia (sexual interest in prepubescent children), teleiophilia is not considered a paraphilia. The term was formalized in order to forestall neologisms, such as \"adultophilia\" or \"normophilia,\" that were occasionally used, but had no precise definition. The term is used primarily by professional sexologists in the scientific literature.\n\nBlanchard served on the gender dysphoria sub-working group for the DSM-IV and served as Chair of the paraphilia sub-working group for the DSM-5. Activists protested the latter appointment. The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force issued a statement questioning the APA's decision to appoint Blanchard.\n\nIn 2008, Blanchard was the lead author of an influential paper proposing the introduction of hebephilia in the DSM-5. The paper, coauthored mostly with colleagues from CAMH and the University of Toronto, triggered a number of reactions, many of them critical on the basis that it pathologizes reproductively valid behavior in order to uphold current social and legal standards. Critics include Richard Green, DSM-IV editor Michael First, forensic psychologist Karen Franklin, and Charles Allen Moser, while others including William O'Donohue argued that the proposal did not go far enough. Blanchard also wrote the literature review paper for the DSM-5 committee regarding pedophilia, in which he summarized and attempted to address the criticism over the DSM-IV-TR definition of pedophilia. The DSM-5 diagnosis initially proposed a new name (\"pedohebophilic disorder\") and the rationale for the change cited several of Blanchard's scientific publications. In the end, the \"pedohebephilic disorder\" proposal was rejected, but the name was changed from \"pedophilia\" to \"pedophilic disorder\", reflecting the DSM-5's general distinction between paraphilia and paraphilic disorder.\n\nBlanchard noted that both Richard Green and William O'Donohue remarked that a so-called \"contended pedophile\"—an individual who fantasizes about having sex with a child, but does not commit child sexual abuse, but just masturbates fantasizing it, and who does not feel subjectively distressed afterward—does not meet the DSM-IV-TR criteria for pedophilia, because he does not meet Criterion B. Whereas Green proposed to solve the problem by removing pedophilia from the DSM, and O'Donohue proposed to remove criterion B for pedophilia, Blanchard proposed a general solution applicable to all paraphilias, namely a distinction between paraphilia and \"paraphilic disorder\". The latter term is proposed to identify the diagnosable condition, which meets both Criterion A and B, whereas an individual who does not meet Criterion B, can be ascertained, but \"not\" diagnosed, as having a paraphilia. (Blanchard acknowledges Kenneth Zucker and James Cantor for discussions about this distinction). Interviewed by bioethics professor Alice Dreger, Blanchard explained: \"We tried to go as far as we could in depathologizing mild and harmless paraphilias, while recognizing that severe paraphilias that distress or impair people or cause them to do harm to others are validly regarded as disorders.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26449902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26449902", "title": "Ricardo Paredes Romero", "text": "Ricardo Paredes Romero\n\nRicardo Paredes Romero (1898–1979), was an Ecuadorian doctor, writer, naturalist, social scientist, and politician.\n\nRomero founded the Socialist Party – Broad Front of Ecuador.\n"}
{"id": "31867503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31867503", "title": "Ronald Naar", "text": "Ronald Naar\n\nRonald Edwin Naar (19 April 1955 – 22 May 2011) was a Dutch mountaineer known as the Netherlands' most famous adventurer.\n\nNaar was born in The Hague, and was an active climber from the 1970s onwards. He made the first ascents of Peak 6393 in the Karakorum, Djo Drake in Bhutan, Tilleketinda on Greenland and Duivelsei in Surinam. He made the first Dutch ascents of several mountains, including the Eiger (north face) and K2, and was the first Dutch climber to complete the Seven Summits.\n\nHe wrote several books about climbing.\n\nHe was criticized internationally because in 1992, high on the flanks of Mount Everest he ordered his expedition to do nothing to assist a dying Indian climber, 30 meters away from their tent camp. Naar answered his critics in \"Leven en dood op de Mount Everest\", (2004, Life and death on Mount Everest)\n\nNaar died himself while climbing on Cho Oyu in Tibet at an altitude of around 8000 metres (26,200 feet) after becoming unwell.\n\n"}
{"id": "38833801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38833801", "title": "Safe Medical Device Amendments of 1990", "text": "Safe Medical Device Amendments of 1990\n\nSafe Medical Device Amendments of 1990 or Safe Medical Devices Act sanctioned progressive reporting and tracking rules for medical devices classified by the Medical Device Regulation Act. The Act mandates reporting requirements by medical device manufacturers regarding adverse safety events and product effectiveness of devices classified as substantially equivalent to Class III medical devices. The United States Statute established the Health and Human Services Office of International Relations and a U.S. Food and Drug Administration office for regulatory activities concerning healthcare products which are considered a combinational biological, device, or drug product.\nThe Act of Congress transferred the electronic product radiation control provisions established by the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act.\n\nCongressman Henry A. Waxman and Senator Edward M. Kennedy were the chairperson sponsors of the safe medical device amendments. The H.R. 3095 legislation was passed by the 101st Congressional session and enacted by the 41st President of the United States George H.W. Bush on November 28, 1990.\n\nThe 1990 Safe Medical Device law originated after an eight year U.S. congressional inquiry of the Medical Device Amendments of 1976. The 1976 legislation deviated the clarification and proper evaluation of competitive or \"substantial equivalence\" medical devices.\n\nThe U.S. General Accounting Office presented exhibits for the legislative review which defined the vulnerabilities of the 510K premarket notification process. The 510K premarket approval program was cross-examined to discover qualified medical devices were disallowed from testing in some instances, inadequately tested in a clinical setting, and deficient in adverse data collection oversight.\n\nThe U.S. congressional review concluded medical devices would require actual device experience in a clinical setting and sufficient reporting of adverse data events. The legislation would encompass medical devices demonstrating the potential for life threatening events and accurate adverse data collection would be required for informed regulatory decisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "25864853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25864853", "title": "Self-employment for people with disabilities (UK)", "text": "Self-employment for people with disabilities (UK)\n\nIn the UK, self-employment is an option for disabled people. Of those in paid work, 18 per cent of disabled men and 8 per cent of disabled women are self-employed as their main job, compared to only 14 per cent and 6 per cent of non-disabled men and women respectively. Many disabled people are not familiar with the rules regarding self-employed work. Self-employment is also sometimes the only option for some disabled people who may require flexible working patterns as a result of their impairment.\n\nBeing at a disadvantage in the workplace means one is more likely to be isolated from the rest of society: to be socially excluded. UK policy has created a number of different programmes which have the aim of addressing social exclusion through employment, including self-employment. One example, which aims to address the additional barriers disabled people face, is the Access to Work programme, which may provide impairment related equipment, support worker and travel costs if the disabled person is unable to use public transport.\n\nThere are also opportunities to work whilst claiming some benefits, such as Employment and Support Allowance and Disabled Persons Tax Credit. For example, Employment and Support Allowance (ESA) allows disabled people to do some (‘Permitted’) work, which includes self-employment, not only as a route to independence, but also to ‘allow them to be socially included’. This 'permitted work' must satisfy a number of criteria. For example, if a disabled person’s income is less than £20 per week, they can work any number of hours whilst still claiming ESA.\n\nUnder universal credit, if a disabled person is gainfully self-employed then a minimum level of income from self-employment will be assumed, even if the actual income is lower than this. This minimum level of income will not apply to anyone who is found to have a limited capability for work, following a work capability assessment. This minimum level of income is determined by the claimant’s individual circumstances, so long as a self-employed person's profits allow them to pay themselves more than the minimum wage. Income is calculated by the number of hours a claimant is expected to work multiplied by the National Minimum Wage. Some self-employed people with low profits will not necessarily be in a position to pay themselves this minimum wage. Thus, the hours a person are expected to work and the assumed income level will reflect the circumstances of self-employed people only if their profits bring in more than the minimum wage. This will not always be the case if/when profits are low.\n\nDisabled self-employed claimants will still be subject to universal credit self-reporting requirements. Universal credit is said to encourage disabled people to take self-employment as a route to independence and social inclusion, providing it is the right path for them and providing that the standard 'expected' hours and 'assumed' income levels are not applied.\n\n"}
{"id": "40941033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40941033", "title": "Seychelles Child Development Study", "text": "Seychelles Child Development Study\n\nThe Seychelles Child Development Study is a project created in 1986 by the Ministries of Health and Education in Seychelles, in cooperation with the University of Rochester and the University of Ulster. Its goal is to monitor the effects of mercury exposure (primarily low-level exposure from fish consumption) on infants and young children, especially with regard to neurodevelopmental disorders. In the study, hair mercury levels are used as the index of exposure. A number of scientific studies have been produced as a result of this project, which have generally concluded that there is no evidence that methylmercury consumption results in an increased risk of neurodevelopmental disorders, though one article did note that \"the association with activity suggests the need for further study of this cohort.\" In 2011, a joint FAO/World Health Organization committee published a report, which, based on the SCDS, concluded that the health benefits associated with the omega-3 fatty acids in fish outweighed the potential adverse neurological effects of mercury intake from fish.\n"}
{"id": "1814446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1814446", "title": "Telecare", "text": "Telecare\n\nTelecare is the term for offering remote care of elderly and physically less able people, providing the care and reassurance needed to allow them to remain living in their own homes. The use of sensors may be part of a package which can provide support for people with illnesses such as dementia, or people at risk of falling.\n\nMost telecare mitigates harm by reacting to untoward events and raising a help response quickly. Some telecare, such as safety confirmation and lifestyle monitoring have a preventive function in that a deterioration in the telecare user's wellbeing can be spotted at an early stage.\n\nTelecare is specifically different from telemedicine and telehealth. Telecare refers to the idea of enabling people to remain independent in their own homes by providing person-centred technologies to support the individual or their carers.\n\nMobile telecare is an emerging service where state of the art mobile devices with roaming SIMs are utilised to allow a client to go outside their home but still have a 24/7 telecare service available to support them. Typical devices that do this are such things as the Pebbell mobile GPS tracker.\n\nThe meaning and usage of the term 'telecare' has not yet settled into consistent use. In the UK it is grounded in the social care framework and focuses on the meaning described above. In other countries 'telecare' may be applied to the practice of healthcare at a distance.\n\nIn its simplest form, it can refer to a fixed or mobile telephone with a connection to a monitoring centre through which the user can raise an alarm. Technologically more advanced systems use sensors, whereby a range of potential risks can be monitored. These may include falls, as well as environmental changes in the home such as floods, fire and gas leaks. Carers of people with dementia may be alerted if the person leaves the house or other defined area. When a sensor is activated it sends a radio signal to a central unit in the user's home, which then automatically calls a 24-hour monitoring centre where trained operators can take appropriate action, whether it be contacting a local key holder, doctor or the emergency services.\n\nTelecare also comprises standalone telecare which does not send signals to a response centre but supports carers through providing local (in-house) alerts in a person's home to let the carer know when a person requires attention.\n\nIt is important to note that 'telecare' is not just a warning system if someone strays from home but is also preventative measure whereby people are brought back and kept in the community through regular communication.\nThere are now a large range of telecare services available with some of the most well known being the pendant alarm, mobile carephone system, pill dispenser, telephone prompt service the movement monitoring, fall detector and more. Multi-lingual telecare services have now been introduced opening the service up to a wider audience. All play a role in maintaining people's independence and allowing people to stay in their own homes.\n\nTechnological advances result in the possibility of promoting independence and for providing care from the social initiative sector, which now contemplates eCare, and navigation/positioning systems, such as GPS for people with dementia or other cognitive impairments.\n\nIn 2005 the UK's Department of Health published \"Building Telecare in England\" to coincide with the announcement of a grant to help encourage its take up by local councils with social care responsibilities.\n\nThe UK’s Department of Health’s Whole System Demonstrator (WSD) launched in May 2008. It is the largest randomised control trial of telehealth and telecare in the world, involving 6191 patients and 238 GP practices across three sites, Newham, Kent and Cornwall. The trials were evaluated by: City University London, University of Oxford, University of Manchester, Nuffield Trust, Imperial College London and London School of Economics.\n\nThe WSD headline findings after the telehealth trial, involving 3154 patients, included these outcomes:\n\n\nThe telecare findings were supposed to be published at some point in the future. In fact they have never surfaced. Some patients are still hopeful that telecare will lead to substantial improvements in the quality of services. The research showed that the telecare approach was not cost effective, with an incremental cost per QALY when added to usual care of £92,000.\n\nThe Government's Care Services minister, Paul Burstow, stated in 2012 that telehealth and telecare would be extended over the next five years (2012-2017) to reach three million people. This ambition was formally abandoned in November 2013. In September 2014 NHS England announced a replacement, but much lower profile, new “technology enabled care services” programme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13326250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13326250", "title": "Telugu Ganga project", "text": "Telugu Ganga project\n\nThe Telugu Ganga project is a water supply scheme implemented by Andhra Pradesh, India to provide drinking water to Chennai city in Tamil Nadu. It is also known as the Krishna Water Supply Project, since the source of the water is the Krishna river in Andhra pradesh. Water is drawn from the Srisailam reservoir and diverted towards Chennai through a series of inter-linked canals, over a distance of about , before it reaches the destination at the Poondi reservoir near Chennai. The main checkpoints en route include the Somasila reservoir in Pennar valley, the Kandaleru reservoir, the 'Zero Point' near Uthukkottai where the water enters Tamil Nadu territory and finally, the Poondi reservoir, also known as Satyamurthy Sagar. From Poondi, water is distributed through a system of link-canals to other storage reservoirs located at Red Hills, Sholavaram and Chembarambakkam.\n\nThe project was approved in 1977 after an agreement was reached between Tamil Nadu and the riparian states of Krishna river: Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka. According to the agreement, each of the three riparian states were to contribute of water annually, for a total supply of .\nThis number was revised down to in 1983 after accounting seepage and evaporation loses.\n\nThe water initially supplied by the canal was disappointing, delivering less than . In 2002, the religious leader Sathya Sai Baba announced a scheme of restoration and lining of the canal; a private undertaking. With an extensive rebuilding of the canal and several reservoirs, the project was completed in 2004, when Poondi reservoir received Krishna water for the first time.\nThe supply of water to Chennai city in 2006 was .\nAfter the re-lining and reconstruction, the Kandaleru-Poondi part of the canal was renamed Sai Ganga.\n\nThe area has however continued to be threatened by illegal construction work and activity related to a project proposed to link the rivers of India.\n\n"}
{"id": "23391477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23391477", "title": "Water resources management in Honduras", "text": "Water resources management in Honduras\n\nWater resources management (WRM) in Honduras is a work in progress and at times has advanced; however, unstable investment and political climates, strong weather phenomena, poverty, lack of adequate capacity, and deficient infrastructures have and will continue to challenge developments to water resource management. The State of Honduras is working on a new General Water Law to replace the 1927 Law on Using National Waters and designed to regulate water use and management. The new water law will also create a Water Authority, and the National Council of Water Resources which will serve as an advising and consultative body.\n\nInitiatives such as the new 2009 General Water Law and The Water Framework Law (2003) along with international monetary and technical assistance and an increasing global focus on integrated water resources management (IWRM) provide hope that Honduras will be able to protect and manage well, their water resources.\n\nHonduras has abundant water resources as the country is located in the tropics but there in lies another major challenge, Honduras must constantly prepare for and recover from frequent heavy storms and flooding. This became all too evident in 1998 when Hurricane Mitch made land fall on Honduras killing 7,000 people.\n\nSurface water drains into Honduras' two primary drainage basins; the Atlantic sloping basin representing 82% of the country, and the Pacific sloping basin accounting for the remaining 13% of Honduras. Together, these two basins drain 106,714 km2 per year. Honduras has ample water availability with annual renewable water resources at 13,766 m per capita; well above the world per capita average of 8,467 m per year or other Latin American countries at 6,739 m per year.\n\nOf a historical note, research and subsequent literature of Water Resources Management in Honduras from the Late Classic period (A.D. 600-900) in Copán, a water-rich region of western Honduras, have suggested that lagoons located in Copán's urban residential sectors may have been conceptualized, utilized, and maintained by the inhabitants of surrounding domestic groups. These lagoons, thought to be forms of communal property, created an economic and ideological basis for social integration. Because the lagoons were seen as a shared communal resource, it was difficult for community elites and power brokers to centralize power and monopolize water resources. Presumably, management of water resources continued to evolve among these native communities until the Spanish conquest. Honduras later declared independence from Spain in 1821; however, information regarding water resource management until 1927 has not been located for this overview.\nEarly 20th century developments in Honduran water resources management were in some ways a response to an expanding export market for bananas during the twenties. The need for irrigation within Honduras' banana farming operations became important for economic development. These irrigated banana fields were located in the fertil valleys of Sula, Aguán y La Ceiba along the Atlantic coast. And today, irrigation is still very important for the agriculture sector of Honduras as it provides for internal consumption and seeks to amplify exports in non-traditional crops.\n\nIn 1927, the Law on Using National Waters (\"Ley Vigente de Aprovechamiento de Aguas Nacionales\") was passed to approve measures addressing water use, irrigation, industrial use, and hydropower. Furthermore, the 1927 law marked the beginning of policy measures designed specifically to manage water resources—albeit not yet integrating sectoral policies. Around 1957, Honduras was mostly under military rule until a freely elected government came to power in 1982. It is unclear how military rule sought to manage water resources during this period. The next major water resources policy measures were signed in 2003 as the Water Framework Law which, among many aspects, aims to reduce poverty through better water resources management. In August 2009, a new General Water Law was passed to replace the 1927 water law. Within the new water law a National Water Authority was created to oversee the work of sector institutions. .\n\nIn spite of ongoing efforts to improve water resources management in Honduras, many challenges continue to exist such as insufficient employment generation, unfavorable investment climate, overvalued currency, lack of credit, high commercial interest rates, deficient infrastructure (water delivery, electricity, communications, and roads), weak legal institutions, inadequate education and workforce productivity, burdensome bureaucratic obstacles, and an unstable political climate. As Honduras and the international community work together to address these hurdles, Honduras will improve water supplies, quality of water, efficiency in irrigation, important freshwater wildlife habitats, and reduce annual flood damage.\n\nHonduras is divided into two large drainage basins each consisting of watersheds and rivers that drain towards the oceans. The Atlantic sloping side of Honduras is home to 13 watersheds including Honduras' largest rivers by volume such as the Río Patuca, Río Ulua, and Río Aguan. Together, the watersheds and rivers on the \"Atlantic slope\" account for 87% of the country's surface water runoff.\n\nThe \"Pacific slope\" side of Honduras has five major watersheds. The important rivers on the Pacific side of the country include the Rió Choluteca which supplies water to the capital city of Tegucigalpa, and the Rió Lempa. All together, the rivers on the Pacific slope convey the other 13% of surface water runoff in Honduras. Total surface water runoff is estimated to be 87 km per year with 16% of this water leaving Honduras for neighboring countries of El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Guatemala.\n\n\"Source for tables above\": FAO 2000\n\nGroundwater availability is not precise in Honduras, however, wells located in the lowlands of the Atlantic coast historically have good yields and are able to sustainably supplement water needs there. In 1973, CEPAL (\"La Comisión Económica para América Latina\"), estimated that 9.09 km of renewable groundwater could be sustainably exploited for use.\n\nMost of this water (8.02 km per year) recharges groundwater on the Atlantic drainage basin of Honduras while the smaller Pacific side basin is recharged by an annual 1.07 km of water flowing towards the Pacific. Groundwater use has been important in the valleys of interior highlands such as Choluteca, Tegucigalpa, and Comayagua where agriculture and irrigation are important to local economies; however, groundwater resources are in significant decline and availability of groundwater for irrigation has subsequently been adversely affected.\n\nWater pollution to both surface and groundwater is primarily due to agricultural run-off and untreated effluents from mining activities. Honduras produces coffee for export along the Atlantic coast and many of the pesticides used become toxic effluents that contaminate rivers and seep into groundwater tables. Heavy metals that escape from mining operations along the Gulf of Fonseca have become a problem and untreated wastewater originating from large towns and cities has often been discharged into nearby waterways, especially in the case of Lake Yojoa. As of 2000, there were no systematic records of pollution levels in lakes, rivers, and reservoirs.\n\nApart from numerous small lakes, Honduras counts Lake Yojoa as its largest natural lake and is nationally significant for its fish resources and the surrounding diversity of flora and fauna that it supports. Lake Yojoa is important for drinking water and irrigation of fruits, grains, and vegetables as well.\n\nYojoa has an approximate surface area 90 km. In addition to Yojoa, there are five dams and reservoirs with the purposes of storing water for consumer consumption, irrigation, and hydroelectric power operations. These dams regulate the flow of 4.21 km. The largest of the reservoirs is the El Cajon with a surface area of 94 km, slightly larger than Lake Yojoa. Total capacity of the El Cajon reservoir is 5600 million m (BCM).\n\nData on water and sanitation in Honduras varies by resource as already pointed out in Water supply and sanitation in Honduras, however WHO/UNICEF reported in 2006 that sanitation coverage was 69% (broadly defined) with a substantial majority proportion being located in urban settings. Water system coverage was 87% (also broadly defined) with a small majority of this being urban.<ref name=\"WHO/UNICEF\"> </ref> Water For People works in Honduras and they report water service in rural areas is ~44%. Furthermore, much of this water is not properly disinfected posing serious health risks from water-borne diseases.\n\nThe General Directorate of Water Resources \"(La Dirección General de Recursos Hídricos (DGRH)\" is responsible for the development, operation, and maintenance of irrigation systems. Honduras could potentially irrigate 500,000 ha of agricultural land; however, as of 2000, only 73,000 ha were under irrigation. About 56,000 ha of the irrigated land is held in private arrangements of which about 47,000 ha is actually being watered. The remaining 17,000 ha is publicly held land. The move to privatization began in the 1990s when the Honduran government adopted a policy of privatization and decentralization that included an eventual transfer of irrigation systems to users.\n\nThese irrigation system transfers are not being eagerly adopted as farmers have a high preference towards privatization and do not want the added responsibility of system maintenance. The Cortes, Yoro, and Choluteca provinces are the most developed representing ~50,000 ha of irrigated area. In response to the continuous increase in water utilization, a \"25-year master plan\" is being promoted by the Honduran government for both irrigation and drainage with total investment of US $143 million.\n\nDrainage in Honduras is of utmost importance to the health of citizens, livestock, and agriculture. Geographically situated in the tropics, Honduras receives large totals of rain from powerful storms and hurricanes, and flooding is an important concern. This constant flooding prompted a 1973 program to build canals and aqueducts in an effort to control flood waters and recuperate agricultural land. Figures from 1991 show that construction of canals to convey floodwater away from valuable land have recuperated 42,000 ha in the Sula Valley and 20,00 ha in the Aguán Valley. Drainage problems in Honduras are most prevalent in the Patuca, Aguán, Plátano, Ulúa, and Chamelecón river basins and cover approximately 340,000 ha.\n\nInstalled capacity of electricity generation in Honduras ~1,500 MW, while hydroelectric output accounts for about 500 MW (33%) of total output. There is large potential for hydropower generation amounting to about 5,000 MW. This growth in hydropower potential resulted from the efforts of former president, Ricardo Mauduro, whom set up a Special Commission for the Development of Hydroelectric Projects.\n\nNotable hydroelectric plants in Honduras include: El Níspero (22.5 MW), Cañaveral (28.5 MW), Río Lindo (80 MW), and El Cajón (300 MW). There are 16 hydro projects that should be commissioned by 2011 and will provide an output of 206.5 MW. Some of the notable projects include: Cangrejal (40 MW), Patuca 3 (100 MW), Los Llanitos (50 MW), and the Jicatuyo (170 MW). El Cajon, as of 2001, was the largest civil engineering project ever undertaken and produced between 45 and 50 percent of the consumed electricity (650-700 kW in 2000) within Honduras.\n\nJon Strand, professor of economics at the University of Oslo in Norway, released a paper in 1998 on water pricing in Honduras and its capital city of Tegucigalpa. Professor Strand then presented the paper's thesis and findings at a World Bank workshop on water pricing implementation, in Washington D.C. Strand's central argument also takes issue with low water tariffs in Honduras and primarily Tegucigalpa.\n\nStrand writes, \"A key problem is water pricing policy, whereby the price charged of those households with access to piped water is only about 20% of long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of supplying this water\". The report also discusses in detail other consequences of low prices in Honduras such as: 1)adverse distributional consequences where the poor pay more than the affluent; 2)leading to wasteful water use among those with access; 3)low revenues for the water administration implies that its ability and incentives to improve and maintain the water system is low.\n\nWater privatization in Honduras has been a means to development; however, only the Municipality of San Pedro Sula, the largest industrial and commercial area of Honduras with a population of approximately 527,000, opened a bidding process to national and international companies to partake in the privatization process involving a 30-year concession contract. The project aimed to transfer water services of the city of San Pedro Sula from the municipal division, \"(División Municipal de Agua (DIMA))\", into private hands.\n\nIn August 2000, the consortium named “Acea y Otros” won the Concession. The consortium consisted of a group of Italian companies (Acea, Agac, Astaldi, Carlo Lotti, and Ghella) and a Honduran company, Terra, that served as representative of various international firms.\n\nThe 1927 Law on Using National Waters (\"Ley Vigente de Aprovechamiento de Aguas Nacionales\") was a major step for Honduras in water resource management (WRM). This law however, did not recognize multi-sectoral uses of water, therefore, water use in each WRM sector became regulated by their own respective sectoral law. Furthermore, major institutions such as SANAA, CONASA, and ERSAPS have operational functions in both water and sanitation services. As of August 2009, Honduras has passed a new General Water Law with a National Water Authority to provide regulation and oversight to institutions responsible for distinct sectors of water resource management. The General Water Law is discussed below.\n\nWater Framework Law (\"Ley Marco Del Sector Agua Potable Y Saneamiento\") and decree No. 118 of 2003 constitutes a jurisdictional framework for planning and organizing the management and integrated use of national water resources. A notable strategy of the framework is to reduce poverty through proper management of water resources and by promoting sustainable development. The framework also decentralized management of water away from SANNA to the municipalities.\n\nThe new General Water Law, (\"la Ley General de Aguas\") was approved by the Honduran Congress on August 18, 2009 and will replace the 1927 Law on Using National Waters discussed below. There are a total of 101 articles in the law and the newly created National Water Authority (\"Autoridad Nacional de Agua\") was the principal decision by legislators. This decentralized water authority will replace the Directorate General of Water Resources, a unit of the Secretariat of Natural Resources (SERNA).\n\nThe now replaced Law on Using National Waters (\"Ley Vigente de Aprovechamiento de Aguas Nacionales\") was first approved in 1927 and later modified in 1932 and 1945. This water use law enacted special rules in the use of potable and domestic use water, irrigation, navigation, industrial use, fishing, and hydropower. This law also provided for water ownership and use. No special provisions for groundwater were made under this law. Chapter 8 of the 1927 law outlines in fifteen articles how the water of a Honduras shall be used for irrigation. Special note to irrigation is also made in Chapter 3, Art. 10, and Chapter 5, Art. 25 which lists an order of preference for how national waters should be used. Irrigation is listed third after domestic and railway supply respectively.\n\nGeneral Law of the Environment (\"Reglamento General del Ambiente\") or decree No. 104 of 1993. Article 32 names the Public Health Secretary, National Defense of natural resources, and public security responsible for control of illegal sewage dumping on inland waters. Article 74, with special focus on clean water, guaranties a safe and appropriate environment for the population.\n\nSERNA (\"La Secretaría de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente\") –\nSERNA, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is charged with responsibly utilizing water resources and sectoral management of water resources. SERNA oversees DGRH and CESCCO (both described below).\n\n\n\nThe newly created National Water Authority, (\"Autoridad Nacional de Agua\") replaces the General Directorate of Water Resources and will oversee separate institutions responsible for the administration of water resources, regulating their use, water distribution development, conservation, and maintenance. One objective of the new decentralized separation of institutions is to avoid administrative and sectoral conflicts between the institutions themselves.\n\nAJAMs (\"Asociaciones de Juntas de Agua Municipales\") AJAMs are municipal association of boards representing rural communities. The national association of these local boards is the AHJASA (\"La Asociación Hondureña de Juntas Administradoras de Agua\") or The Honduran Association of Water Board Administrators. Membership is made up from 8 departments and includes 500 members that represent 380,000 users. About 50 AJAMs exist throughout Honduran municipalities.\n\nThe Honduras water platform (\"Plataforma del Agua de Honduras\") is a group jointly formed by civil society, the international community and the central government. Its fundamental purpose is to promote integrated water resources management in Honduras. This type of management promotes administration of water, its land and related resources, so as to maximize social and economic well-bring. Ideally, this is done in an equitable way without compromising the sustainability of the ecosystems.\n\nRAS-HON (\"La Red de Agua y Saneamiento de Honduras\")- This network aims to improve communication between and among institutions, share best practices and experiences, and promote appropriate technologies. The network is made up of members of social society and the government.\nSANAA (\"Servicio Autonomo Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados\") – SANAA is the country's national utility for moving water and providing drainage and sewage systems. SANNA is responsible for the operation of about half of the country's urban water and sewage systems including that of Tegucigalpa. In 2003, a new Framework Law for water supply and sanitation was passed that included service decentralization from SANAA to the municipalities.\n\nCONASA (\"Consejo Nacional de Agua Potable y Saneamiento\") – CONASA is the national advisory council office of SANAA on potable water and sanitation. A major component of the CONASA mission is to set national policy, strategies, and plans regarding coverage of water services.\n\nERSAPS (\"Ente Regulador de los Servicios de Agua Potable y Saneamiento\") – ERSAPS serves as the regulator of water and sanitation services.\n\nFHIS (\"El Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social\") – FHIS channels a large proportion of the funding from national funds and donors for water projects.\n\nHonduras shares rivers and watersheds with its neighbors and 16% of the surface water in Honduras leaves the country by river towards El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua. For Example, the Río Lempa (3.87 km) and the Río Goascorán (1.2 km) together convey 5.07 km of water per year to El Salvador. No international agreements exist with the aforementioned countries to regulate the joint utilization and management of shared water resources. There exists only treaties marking geographical limits that do not take into consideration shared water resources.\n\nAlong with the Ramsar sites below, UNESCO recognizes the Maya Site of Copan and the Río Plátano Biosphere Reserve as World Heritage Sites. These protected areas offer ecosystem services such as protection from floods, and natural water purification. Deforestation, poor water resource management and climate change may all factor into the future health of these protected areas.\n\nRamsar sites in Honduras:\n\n\"Source:\" Ramsar 2005.\n\nThe Global Climate Risk Index 4 constructed for the period between 1997 and 2006 and covering both human and economic impacts, ranks Honduras 1st in the world, underscoring the country’s very high vulnerability to climate related events, mostly to storms. This vulnerability was evident when Hurricane Mitch struck Honduras in 1998 causing $4 billion in damage and claiming 7,000 lives. Yet climate change is expected to bring even greater weather variability to Honduras with less precipitation overall but more powerful storms and heavy rain during hurricane season spawning landslides and floods. Tegucigalpa and neighboring Comayagüela (which together form the Honduran capital) are the most affected, due to deforestation and the increased vulnerability to landslides.\n\nAccording to the first national communication to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the following future impacts from climate change are expected in Honduras: 1) Temperature increases will occur that may alter precipitation patterns and irrigation schedules with the highest temperature increases in May and June. 2) Reduction in precipitation totals with the largest reductions occurring between November and April.\n\n\"Source: World Bank Climate Change country note on Honduras\".\n\nIn an effort to increase exports under global demand for wood, Honduras has cut down forest at an increasing rate and by 1996, annual deforestation was at 108,000 ha. About 170,000 ha of land in Honduras are subject to soil erosion. Without forest in place, rains have eroded large areas of land and rivers are carrying valuable topsoil downstream. Where dams are built, they have begun to silt up with the possible effect of reducing their hydroelectric potential.\n\nIn 2007, The World Bank approved a US$30 million loan for the Water and Sanitation Sector Modernization Project in Honduras. Relevant water resource management objectives include: 1) Reinforce the national sector actors to fulfill their new roles as a necessity for successful decentralization of the services; and 2) Reduce non-revenue water in selected areas of Tegucigalpa to provide immediate impact on the service quality. Jane Armitage, World Bank Director for Central America, says,\"The Water and Sanitation Sector Modernization Project will not only enable an environment that develops and strengthens service providers, but also will foster transparency and improve their effectiveness in the water sector\".\nThe Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) also approved a 40-year US$30 million loan to Honduras in 2006 that is now ('09) in implementation phases. The soft loan targets improvements in potable water and supports decentralization, improved service management and finance infrastructures. The program also finances studies for transferring Tegucigalpa's potable water, currently managed by SANAA, to the Municipality of the Central District of Tegucigalpa. Most of the resources from this IDB loan are being used to finance expansion of potable water.\n\nA US$4.6 million grant by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Dutch government is benefiting 40,000 low-income households in rural and urban areas of Honduras by improving the financing of water and wastewater infrastructure projects.\n\nAt the initiative of the United Nations Development Program's country office in Honduras, the Honduran Water Platform (HWP) was established in 2003 with the aim of implementing more suitable management of the country's water resources. This led to the 2004 collaboration of the Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland (GEUS) with the Kvistgaard Consult. Together, these two entities carried out a project that supported the Honduran Water Platform (HWP) in its preparation of a water resource strategy and action plan.\n\nSupport by Canada and a project from the United States with USAID are selected and summarized here.\n\nThe Canadian International Development Agency is supporting the Honduran water sector in the following avenues:\n\n\"Sources:\"\n\nUSAID has implemented a four-year, US $23 million program called MIRA (\"Manejo Integrado de Recursos Ambientales\") or Integrated Management of Environmental Resources. MIRA is aimed at strengthening the local capacity to create and administer watershed management plans. The program will also stimulate policy reform related to the integrated management of natural resources. MIRA promotes stakeholder dialogues that involve local authorities, private businesses, other donors, NGOs, and the beneficiary communities. The objective here is of building consensus on the vision and priorities needed to achieve that vision. USAID/MIRA is working in 12 out of the 21 watersheds in Honduras. Four of these watersheds (Choluteca, Cangrejal, Patuca and the Bay Islands) had been previously designated by USAID as priority watersheds. An additional eight watersheds were selected based upon bio-physical, socio-economic and institutional criteria.\n\n"}
{"id": "10077085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10077085", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Haiti", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Haiti\n\n\"This article has been written in 2007, with partial updates in later years including most recently in May 2013. Please update it further. Please also see the French version of the article for further details.\"\n\nHaiti faces key challenges in the water supply and sanitation sector:\nNotably, access to public services is very low, their quality is inadequate and public institutions remain very weak despite foreign aid and the government's declared intent to strengthen the sector's institutions. Foreign and Haitian NGOs play an important role in the sector, especially in rural and urban slum areas.\n\nHaiti's coverage levels in urban and rural areas are the lowest in the hemisphere for both water supply and sanitation. Sewer systems and wastewater treatment are nonexistent.\n\n\"Source\": Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation of WHO/UNICEF \n\nIn rural areas those without access to an improved water source got their drinking water primarily from unprotected wells (5%), unprotected springs (37%) and rivers (8%). In urban areas those without access to an improved source got their drinking water primarily from \"bottled water\" (20%), from carts with drums (4%) and unprotected wells (3%). Water in bottles or in small plastic bags is treated, bottled and sold by local private companies, often using reverse osmosis for treatment. Bottled water is also imported, especially in the aftermath of disasters such as the 2010 earthquake.\n\nThose without access to improved sanitation either used shared latrines or defecate in the open. According to the Demographic and Health Survey of 2006, 10% of those living in urban areas and 50% of those living in rural areas defecated in the open.\n\nCoverage figures do not give an indication of service quality, which is generally quite poor. In rural areas, systems have often fallen into disrepair. They either do not provide any water service at all or provide service only to those close to the source, with those at the end of the system (\"tail-enders\") remaining without water. In almost all urban areas water supply is intermittent.\n\nIn 1964 the government of François Duvalier created CAMEP, the \"Centrale Autonome Métropolitaine d'Eau Potable\", responsible for the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area. Subsequently, in 1977 the government of his son Jean-Claude Duvalier created SNEP (\"Service National d'Eau Potable\") to be in charge of water supply in the rest of the country. Shortly afterwards a rural water and hygiene unit called POCHEP after its French acronym was created in the Ministry of Health, since SNEP was focusing on secondary towns and did not have the ability to serve rural areas. All three entities struggled to increase coverage at the desired pace and to provide adequate levels of service quality. Nevertheless, the 1980s witnessed a certain increase of coverage as part of the International Water and Sanitation Decade, supported by numerous donors including the World Bank and the IDB as well as by numerous NGOs.\n\nThe 1990s witnessed a series of setbacks for the country and consequently for the water and sanitation sector as well. After a 1991 military coup foreign aid was suspended for three years. Aid began to flow in again after the return of Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 1994, a period which witnessed the emergence of water committees in Port-au-Prince. These community organizations sell water to slum dwellers at a small profit, which is reinvested in small-scale community infrastructure such as sports facilities or sanitary facilities. The water is bought from the utility, for which the water committees are one of their best-paying customers.\n\nIn the late 1990s aid began to dry up again, which in turn again affected the performance of the sector and condemned a large share of the population to be without adequate services. External aid picked up again after the departure of Aristide in 2004 under a transition government and the second government of René Préval. The external assistance is particularly focused at towns in the interior of the country and on rural areas, while the staggering problem of supplying the metropolitan area of the capital with sufficient clean water and a sewer system remains unresolved.\n\nThe Preval government has engaged in a reform of the water sector by establishing a national directorate for water and sanitation and regional service providers through a framework law passed in 2009. The law aims at strengthening the government's policy and regulatory functions, to provide more orientation to the numerous NGOs active in water and sanitation.\nIn January 2010 parts of Haiti including the capital were hit by a massive earthquake. More than 1.5 million people were displaced and had to live in refugee camps without piped water supply or sanitation, where most of them still lived one year after the earthquake.\nIn October 2010 a cholera epidemia broke out that killed 6,435 people until September 2011. According to the US Center for Disease Control the suspected source for the epidemic was the Artibonite River, from which some of the affected people had drunk water. An article in the journal Nature argues that \"the limited resources available to combat the country's cholera epidemic should be spent on sanitation and clean water, rather than on vaccination\".\n\nThe main public institution in the Haitian water sector is the National Directorate for Water Supply and Sanitation in the Ministry of Public Works, called DINEPA after its French acronym (\"Direction Nationale d'Eau Potable et d'Assainissement\"). The directorate is in charge of implementing the sector policy, coordinating donor assistance and regulating service providers.\n\nRegional service providers under the authority of the DINEPA are called OREPA (\"Offices Régionaux de l'Eau Potable et de l'Assainissement\") and provide water supply in urban areas. Municipalities are supposed to become responsible for water supply and sanitation in the long run as per the framework law, but their capacity is limited and currently they play almost no role in the sector. Private operators and what are called \"professional operators\" can also operate water systems according to the water and sanitation framework law of 2009.\n\nThere are hundreds of water committees, called CAEPAs (\"Comités d'Aprovisionnement en Eau Potable et d'Assainissement\") or simply \"Comités d'Eau\", in charge of water systems in rural areas and some small towns. They consist of elected community members. Their degree of formalization and effectiveness varies considerably. The best water committees meet regularly, closely interact with the community, regularly collect revenues, hire a plumber who performs routine repairs, have a bank account and are registered and approved by DINEPA. However, many water committees fall short of these expectations. There is no national or regional registry of water committees or water systems and there are no associations of water committees at the municipal, departmental or national level. Another public entity that invests in water supply is FAES, a Social fund.\n\nSector agencies have lost qualified and trained staff, often to NGOs and donor agencies, because of their low pay levels. NGOs perform a wide variety of functions and often attract the most qualified and motivated staff due to their higher salary levels. They are particularly active in rural areas, but also in small towns and urban slums.\n\nTariffs in Haiti are flat rates due to the absence of metering for most customers, and can vary greatly depending on location and provider. Tariffs in the metropolitan area of Port-au-Prince are much higher than those in provincial towns. Tariffs are lowest in rural areas, if they are charged at all. In 2008 water tariffs in small towns varied from about the equivalent of $1 per month in the central plateau to roughly $7.30 per month in Kenscoff near the capital.\n\nMetering is rare outside the capital and even there only a fraction of customers are metered, in particular water committees in the informal settlements in Port-au-Prince as well as industrial customers. Many private citizens and some major consumers, such as luxury hotels, have disconnected from the public network and receive all their water via tanker trucks.\n\nThe revenues of the OREPA barely cover operating costs, leaving insufficient resources for maintenance and no resources to self-finance investments. This problem is also evident in the myriad of community-operated and privately operated smaller systems throughout the country. Sometimes water is cut off to enforce payments, partly because payments cannot be enforced through the legal system. However, many customers reconnect illegally.\n\nAlmost all investments are financed by grants from NGOs or official development assistance, chiefly the IDB, the World Bank, USAID and the European Union. As of 2013, for the first time a venture capital firm announced it would finance investments in the Haitian water sector.\n\n\"Non-governmental organizations\" (NGOs): Many NGOs finance their activities through both individual contributions and grants that come directly from government donors or indirectly through the Haitian government.\n\nSome of the NGOs active in drinking water supply in Haiti are:\n\n\nMost NGOs are not specialized in water supply, but rather undertake community development across various sectors in specific localities. However, some NGOs - like International Action, Helvetas, ACF and GRET - focus on water supply and some also focus on sanitation.\n\nInter-American Development Bank\n\nThe Inter-American Development Bank is the largest donor for water supply and sanitation in Haiti with on-going projects in Port-au-Prince (since 2010), secondary cities (since 1998) and in rural areas (since 2006) implemented by DINEPA. The Spanish government provides substantial grant funding for IDB water and sanitation projects in Haiti.\n\nWorld Bank\n\nThe World Bank supports two rural water supply and sanitation project implemented by DINEPA with total funding of US$10m and a series of community-driven development (CDD) projects that allow communities to choose the type of investment they want to undertake, including small-scale drinking water supply activities. The CDD project is implemented by community-based organizations with the close support of NGOs that work on behalf of the Haitian government.\n\nIn May 2013 the venture capital firm Leopard Capital, through its Leopard Haiti private equity fund, announced that it intends to sell water for profit in Haiti at yet undisclosed locations and at an undisclosed price through a newly founded private company called dloHaiti. It has raised USD 3.4 million with the aim to build 40 water kiosks that would use solar-powered high-tech water purification systems. The company's investors also include the International Finance Corporation's InfraVentures Fund, the Netherlands Development Finance Company (FMO), Miyamoto International, and Jim Chu, dloHaiti's CEO and Founder.\n\n"}
{"id": "3847879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3847879", "title": "Women's March on Versailles", "text": "Women's March on Versailles\n\nThe Women's March on Versailles, also known as The October March, The October Days, or simply The March on Versailles, was one of the earliest and most significant events of the French Revolution. The march began among women in the marketplaces of Paris who, on the morning of 5 October 1789, were near rioting over the high price and scarcity of bread. Their demonstrations quickly became intertwined with the activities of revolutionaries, who were seeking liberal political reforms and a constitutional monarchy for France. The market women and their various allies grew into a mob of thousands. Encouraged by revolutionary agitators, they ransacked the city armory for weapons and marched to the Palace of Versailles. The crowd besieged the palace, and in a dramatic and violent confrontation, they successfully pressed their demands upon King Louis XVI. The next day, the crowd compelled the king, his family, and most of the French Assembly to return with them to Paris.\n\nThese events ended the king's independence and signified the change of power and reforms about to overtake France. The march symbolized a new balance of power that displaced the ancient privileged orders of the French nobility and favored the nation's common people, collectively termed the Third Estate. Bringing together people representing sources of the Revolution in their largest numbers yet, the march on Versailles proved to be a defining moment of that Revolution.\n\nFollowing poor harvests, the deregulation of the grain market implemented by Turgot, Louis XVI's Controller-General of Finances, in 1774, was a main cause of the famine which led to the Flour War in 1775. At the end of the Ancien Régime, the fear of famine became an ever-present dread for the lower strata of the Third Estate, and rumors of the \"Pacte de Famine\" to starve the poor were still rampant and readily believed. Mere rumors of food shortage led to the Réveillon riots in April 1789. Rumors of a plot aiming to destroy wheat crops in order to starve the population provoked the Great Fear in the summer of 1789.\n\nWhen the October \"journées\" took place, France's revolutionary decade, 1789–1799, had barely begun. The revolution's capacity for violence was as yet not fully realized. The storming of the Bastille had occurred less than three months earlier. Flush with newly discovered power, the common citizens of France – particularly in the teeming capital, Paris – felt a newly discovered desire to participate in politics and government. The poorest among them were almost exclusively concerned with the issue of food: most workers spent nearly half their income on bread. In the post-Bastille period, price inflation and severe shortages in Paris became commonplace, as did local incidents of violence in the marketplaces.\n\nThe King's court and the deputies of the National Constituent Assembly were all in comfortable residence at the royal city of Versailles, where they were considering momentous changes to the French political system. Reformist deputies had managed to pass sweeping legislation in the weeks after the Bastille's fall, including the revolutionary August Decrees (which formally abolished most noble and clerical privileges) and the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. Now their attention was turned to the creation of a permanent constitution. Monarchists and conservatives of all degrees had thus far been unable to resist the surging strength of the reformers, but by September their positions were beginning, however slightly, to improve. In constitutional negotiations they were able to secure a legislative veto power for the king. Many of the reformers were left aghast by this, and further negotiations were hobbled by contentiousness.\n\nQuiet Versailles, the seat of royal power, was a stifling environment for reformers. Their stronghold was in Paris. The bustling metropolis lay within walking distance, less than to the northeast. The reformist deputies were well aware that the four hundred or more monarchist deputies were working to transfer the Assembly to the distant royalist city of Tours, a place even less hospitable to their efforts than Versailles. Worse, many feared that the King, emboldened by the growing presence of royal troops, might simply dissolve the Assembly, or at least renege on the August decrees. The King was indeed considering this, and when on 18 September he issued a formal statement giving his approval to only a portion of the decrees, the deputies were incensed. Stoking their anger even further, the King even stated on 4 October that he had reservations about the Declaration of the Rights of Man.\n\nDespite its post-revolutionary mythology, the march was not a spontaneous event. Numerous calls for a mass demonstration at Versailles had already been made; the Marquis of Saint-Huruge, one of the popular orators of the Palais-Royal, had called for just such a march in August to evict the obstructionist deputies who, he claimed, were protecting the King's veto power. Although his efforts were foiled, revolutionaries continued to hold onto the idea of a march on Versailles to compel the King to accept the Assembly's laws. Speakers at the Palais-Royal mentioned it regularly throughout the next month, creating enduring suspicions of the proprietor, Louis Philippe II, Duke of Orléans. The idea of a march on Versailles was widespread, and was even discussed in the pages of the \"Mercure de France\" (5 September 1789). A menacing unrest was in the air, and many nobles and foreigners fled the oppressive atmosphere.\n\nFollowing the mutiny of the French Guards a few hours before the storming of the Bastille, the only troops immediately available for the security of the palace at Versailles were the aristocratic Garde du Corps (Body Guard) and the Cent-Suisses (Hundred Swiss). Both were primarily ceremonial units and lacked the numbers and training to provide effective protection for the royal family and the government. Accordingly, the Flanders Regiment (a regular infantry regiment of the Royal Army) was ordered to Versailles in late September 1789 by the king's minister of war, the Comte de Saint-Priest, as a precautionary measure. \n\nOn 1 October, the officers at Versailles held a welcoming banquet for the officers of the new troops, a customary practice when a unit changed its garrison. The royal family briefly attended the affair, walking amongst the tables set up in the opera house of the palace. Outside, in the \"cour de marbre\" (central courtyard), the soldiers' toasts and oaths of fealty to the king grew more demonstrative as the night wore on. \n\nThe lavish banquet was certain to be an affront to those suffering in a time of severe austerity, but it was reported in the \"L'Ami du peuple\" and other firebrand newspapers as nothing short of a gluttonous orgy. Worst of all, the papers all dwelt scornfully on the reputed desecration of the tricolor cockade; drunken officers were said to have stamped upon this symbol of the nation and professed their allegiance solely to the white cockade of the House of Bourbon. This embellished tale of the royal banquet became the source of intense public outrage.\n\nOn the morning of 5 October, a young woman struck a marching drum at the edge of a group of market-women who were infuriated by the chronic shortage and high price of bread. From their starting point in the markets of the eastern section of Paris then known as the Faubourg Saint-Antoine, the angry women forced a nearby church to toll its bells. Their numbers continued to grow and with restless energy the group began to march. More women from other nearby marketplaces joined in, many bearing kitchen blades and other makeshift weapons, as the tocsins rang from church towers throughout several districts. Driven by a variety of agitators, the mob converged on the Hôtel de Ville (the City Hall of Paris) where they demanded not only bread, but arms. As more and more women – and men – arrived, the crowd outside the city hall reached between six and seven thousand, and perhaps as many as ten thousand.\n\nOne of the men was the audacious Stanislas-Marie Maillard, a prominent \"vainqueur\" of the Bastille, who eagerly snatched up his own drum and led the infectious cry of \"à Versailles!\" Maillard was a popular figure among the market-women, and by unofficial acclamation was given a leadership role. Although hardly a man of gentle disposition, Maillard helped suppress by force of character the mob's worst instincts; he rescued the Hôtel de Ville's quartermaster, Pierre-Louis Lefebvre-Laroche, a priest commonly known as \"Abbé Lefebvre\", who had been strung up on a lamppost for trying to safeguard its gunpowder storage. The City Hall itself was ransacked as the crowd surged through taking its provisions and weapons, but Maillard helped prevent it from burning down the entire building. In due course, the rioters' attention turned again to Versailles, and they filtered back to the streets. Maillard deputized a number of women as group leaders and gave a loose sense of order to the proceedings as he led the crowd out of the city in the driving rain.\n\nAs they left, thousands of National Guardsmen who had heard the news were assembling at the \"Place de Grève\". The Marquis de Lafayette, in Paris as their commander-in-chief, discovered to his dismay that his soldiers were largely in favor of the march and were being egged on by agitators to join in. Even though he was one of France's greatest war heroes, Lafayette could not dissuade his troops and they began threatening to desert. Rather than see them leave as another anarchic mob, the Parisian municipal government told Lafayette to guide their movements; they also instructed him to request that the king return voluntarily to Paris to satisfy the people. Sending a swift horseman forward to warn Versailles, Lafayette contemplated the near mutiny of his men: he was aware that many of them had openly promised to kill him if he did not lead or get out of the way. At four o'clock in the afternoon, fifteen thousand guards with several thousand more civilian latecomers set off for Versailles. Lafayette reluctantly took his place at the head of their column, hoping to protect the king and public order.\n\nThe hunger and despair of the market women was the original impetus for the march, but what started as a search for bread soon took on a much more ambitious goal. The Hôtel de Ville had already opened its plentiful stores to the rioters, but they remained unsatisfied: they wanted not just one meal but the assurance that bread would once again be plentiful and cheap. Famine was a real and ever-present dread for the lower strata of the Third Estate, and rumors of an \"aristocrats' plot\" to starve the poor were rampant and readily believed.\n\nAt the same time, there was common resentment against the reactionary attitudes prevailing in Court circles even before the uproar sparked by the notorious banquet precipitated the political aspects of the march. Deeper planners in the crowd spread the word that the king needed to dismiss his royal bodyguards entirely and replace them all with patriotic National Guardsmen, a line of argument that had a compelling resonance among Lafayette's soldiers.\n\nThese two popular goals coalesced around a third that was largely the revolutionaries' idea, which was that the king and his court, and the Assembly as well, must all be moved to Paris to reside among the people. Only then would the foreign soldiers be expelled, food be reliably available, and France served by a leader who was \"in communion with his own people\". The plan appealed to all segments of the crowd. Even those who were innocently supportive of the monarchy (and there were many among the women) felt the idea of bringing home \"le bon papa\" was a good and comforting plan. For revolutionaries, the preservation of their recent legislation and the creation of a constitution were paramount, and a lockdown of the king within reformist Paris would provide the best possible environment for the Revolution to succeed.\n\nThe crowd traveled the distance from Paris to Versailles in about six hours. Among their makeshift weaponry they dragged along several cannons taken from the Hôtel de Ville. Boisterous and energetic, they recruited (or impressed into service) more and more followers as they surged out of Paris in the autumn rain. In their ambiguous but always aggressive \"poissard\" slang, they chattered enthusiastically about bringing the king back home. Less affectionately, they spoke of the queen, Marie Antoinette, and many had no restraint in calling for her death.\n\nWhen the crowd finally reached Versailles, it was met by another group that had assembled from the surrounding area. Members of the Assembly greeted the marchers and invited Maillard into their hall, where he fulminated about the Flanders Regiment and the people's need for bread. As he spoke, the restless Parisians came pouring into the Assembly and sank exhausted on the deputies' benches. Hungry, fatigued, and bedraggled from the rain, they seemed to confirm that the siege was a simple demand for food. The unprotected deputies had no choice but to receive the marchers, who shouted down most of the speakers and demanded to hear from the popular reformist deputy Mirabeau. The great orator declined this chance at demagoguery but nonetheless mingled familiarly with the market women, even sitting for some time with one of them upon his knee. A few other deputies welcomed the marchers warmly, including Maximilien Robespierre who was still at that time a relatively obscure figure in politics. Robespierre gave strong words of support to the women and their plight, and his efforts were received appreciatively; his solicitations helped greatly to soften the crowd's hostility towards the Assembly.\n\nWith few other options available to him, the President of the Assembly, Jean Joseph Mounier, accompanied a deputation of market-women into the palace to see the king. A group of six women nominated by the crowd were escorted into the king's apartment, where they told him of the crowd's privations. The king responded sympathetically, and using all his charm impressed the women to the point that one of them fainted at his feet. After this brief but pleasant meeting, arrangements were made to disburse some food from the royal stores, with more promised, and some in the crowd felt that their goals had been satisfactorily met. As rain once again began to pelt Versailles, Maillard and a small cluster of market women trooped triumphantly back to Paris.\n\nMost of the crowd, however, remained unpacified. They milled around the palace grounds with rumors abounding that the women's deputation had been duped – the queen would inevitably force the king to break any promises that had been made. Well aware of the surrounding dangers, Louis discussed the situation with his advisors. At about six o'clock in the evening, the king made a belated effort to quell the rising tide of insurrection: he announced that he would accept the August decrees and the Declaration of the Rights of Man without qualification. Adequate preparations to defend the palace were not made, however: the bulk of the royal guards, who had been deployed under arms in the main square for several hours facing a hostile crowd, was withdrawn to the far end of the park of Versailles. In the words of one of the officers: \"Everyone was overwhelmed with sleep and lethargy, we thought it was all over.\" This left only the usual night guard of sixty-one Gardes du Corps posted throughout the palace.\n\nLate in the evening, Lafayette's national guardsmen approached up the \"Avenue de Paris\". Lafayette immediately left his troops and went to see the king, grandly announcing himself with the declaration, \"I have come to die at the feet of Your Majesty\". Outside, an uneasy night was spent in which his Parisian guardsmen mingled with the marchers, and the two groups sounded each other out. Many in the crowd persuasively denounced Lafayette as a traitor, complaining of his resistance to leaving Paris and the slowness of his march. By the first light of morning, an alliance of the national guards and the women was evident, and as the crowd's vigor was restored, their roughneck \"poissard\" clamoring resumed.\nAt about six o'clock in the morning, some of the protesters discovered a small gate to the palace was unguarded. Making their way inside, they searched for the queen's bedchamber. The royal guards raced throughout the palace, bolting doors and barricading hallways and those in the compromised sector, the \"cour de marbre\", fired their guns at the intruders, killing a young member of the crowd. Infuriated, the rest surged towards the breach and streamed inside.\n\nTwo guardsmen, Miomandre and Tardivet, each separately attempted to face down the crowd and were overpowered. The violence boiled over into savagery as Tardivet's head was shorn off and raised aloft on a pike. As battering and screaming filled the halls around her, the queen ran barefoot with her ladies to the king's bedchamber and spent several agonizing minutes banging on its locked door, unheard above the din. In a close brush with death, they barely escaped through the doorway in time.\n\nThe chaos continued as other royal guards were found and beaten; at least one more was killed and his head too appeared atop a pike. Finally, the fury of the attack subsided enough to permit some communication between the former French Guards, who formed the professional core of Lafayette's National Guard militia, and the royal \"gardes du corps\". The units had a history of cooperation and a military sense of mutual respect, and Lafayette, who had been snatching a few hours of sleep in his exhaustion, awoke to make the most of it. To the relief of the royals, the two sets of soldiers were reconciled by his charismatic mediation and a tenuous peace was established within the palace.\nAlthough the fighting ceased and the two commands of troops had cleared the interior of the palace, the mob were still present outside. The rank and file of both the Flanders Regiment and another regular unit present, the Montmorency Dragoons, now appeared unwilling to act against the people. Lafayette, who had earned the court's indebtedness, convinced the king to address the crowd. When the two men stepped out on a balcony an unexpected cry went up: \"Vive le Roi!\" The relieved king briefly conveyed his willingness to return to Paris, acceding \"to the love of my good and faithful subjects\". As the crowd cheered, Lafayette stoked their joy by dramatically pinning a tricolor cockade to the hat of the king's nearest bodyguard.\nAfter the king withdrew, the exultant crowd would not be denied the same accord from the queen, and her presence was demanded loudly. Lafayette brought her to the same balcony, accompanied by her young son and daughter. The crowd ominously shouted for the children to be taken away, and it seemed the stage might be set for a regicide. Yet, as the queen stood with her hands crossed over her chest, the crowd – some of whom had muskets leveled in her direction – warmed to her courage. Amid this unlikely development, Lafayette cannily let the mob's fury drain away until, with dramatic timing and flair, he knelt reverently and kissed her hand. The demonstrators responded with a muted respect, and many even raised a cheer which the queen had not heard for quite a long time: \"Vive la Reine!\"\n\nThe goodwill generated by this surprising turn of events defused the situation, but to many observers the scene on the balcony was mere theatricality without long-term resonance. However pleased it may have been by the royal displays, the crowd insisted that the king come back with them to Paris.\n\nAt about one o'clock in the afternoon of 6 October 1789, the vast throng escorted the royal family and a complement of one hundred deputies back to the capital, this time with the armed National Guards leading the way. By now the mass of people had grown to over sixty thousand, and the return trip took about nine hours. The procession could seem merry at times, as guardsmen hoisted up loaves of bread stuck on the tips of their bayonets, and some of the market women rode gleefully astride the captured cannon. Yet, even as the crowd sang pleasantries about their \"Good Papa\", their violent mentality could not be misread; celebratory gunshots flew over the royal carriage and some marchers even carried pikes bearing the heads of the slaughtered Versailles guards. A sense of victory over the \"\"ancien régime\"\" was imbued in the parade, and it was understood by all that the king was now fully at the service of the people.\n\nNo one understood this so viscerally as the king himself. After arriving at the dilapidated Tuileries Palace, abandoned since the reign of Louis XIV, he was asked for his orders and he replied with uncharacteristic diffidence, \"Let everyone put himself where he pleases!\" Then, with a sullen poignancy, he asked for a history of the deposed Charles I of England to be brought from the library.\n\nThe rest of the National Constituent Assembly followed the king within two weeks to new quarters in Paris. In short order, the entire body settled in only a few steps from the Tuileries at a former riding school, the \"Salle du Manège\". However, some fifty-six \"monarchien\" deputies did not come with them, believing the mob threat in the capital to be personally dangerous. The October \"journées\" thus effectively deprived the monarchist faction of significant representation in the Assembly as most of these deputies retreated from the political scene; many, like Mounier, fled the country altogether.\n\nConversely, Robespierre's impassioned defense of the march raised his public profile considerably. The episode gave him a lasting heroic status among the \"poissardes\" and burnished his reputation as a patron of the poor. His later rise to become virtual dictator of the Revolution was greatly facilitated by his actions during the occupation of the Assembly.\n\nLafayette, though initially acclaimed, found that he had tied himself too closely to the king. As the Revolution progressed, he was hounded into exile by the radical leadership. Maillard returned to Paris with his status as a local hero made permanent. He participated in several later \"journées\", but in 1794 became stricken with illness, dying at the age of thirty-one. For the women of Paris, the march became the source of apotheosis in revolutionary hagiography. The \"Mothers of the Nation\" were highly celebrated upon their return, and they would be praised and solicited by successive Parisian governments for years to come.\n\nKing Louis XVI was officially welcomed to Paris with a respectful ceremony held by mayor Jean Sylvain Bailly. His return was touted as a momentous turning point in the Revolution, by some even as its end. Optimistic observers such as Camille Desmoulins declared that France would now enter a new golden age, with its revived citizenry and popular constitutional monarchy. Others were more wary, such as journalist Jean-Paul Marat, who wrote:\nIt would take almost two full years until the first French Constitution was signed on 3 September 1791, and it required another popular intervention to make it happen. Louis attempted to work within the framework of his limited powers after the women's march but won little support, and he and the royal family remained virtual prisoners in the Tuileries. Desperate, he made his abortive flight to Varennes in June 1791. Attempting to escape and join up with royalist armies, the king was once again captured by a mixture of citizens and national guardsmen who hauled him back to Paris. Permanently disgraced, Louis was forced to accept a constitution more denuding of his kingship than any previously put forward. The spiral of decline in the king's fortunes culminated at the guillotine in 1793.\n\nEven while the women were marching, suspicious eyes looked upon Louis Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, already behind the July uprisings, as being somehow responsible for the event. The Duke, a cousin of Louis XVI, was an energetic proponent of constitutional monarchy, and it was an open secret that he felt himself to be uniquely qualified to be king under such a system. Though allegations of his specific actions concerning the October march remain largely unproven, he has long been considered a significant instigator of the events. The Duke was certainly present as a deputy to the Assembly, and he was described by contemporaries as smiling warmly as he walked among the protesters at the height of the siege; many of them are said to have hailed him with greetings like \"Here is our king! Long live King Orléans!\" Many scholars believe that the Duke paid \"agents provocateurs\" to fan the discontent in the marketplaces and to conflate the women's march for bread with the drive to bring the king back to Paris. Others suggest he coordinated in some way with Mirabeau, the Assembly's most powerful statesman at the time, to use the marchers to advance the constitutionalist agenda. Still others go so far as to assert that the crowd was guided by such important Orléanist allies as Antoine Barnave, Choderlos de Laclos, and the duc d'Aiguillon, all dressed as \"poissardes\" in women's clothes. Yet most of the Revolution's foremost histories describe any involvement of the Duke as ancillary to the action, efforts of opportunism that neither created nor defined the October march. The Duke was investigated by the crown for complicity and none was proven. Still, the pall of suspicion helped convince him to take on Louis XVI's offer of a diplomatic mission conveniently outside the country. He returned to France the following summer and resumed his place in the Assembly where both he and Mirabeau were officially exonerated of any misdeeds regarding the march. As the Revolution moved forward into the Terror, the Duke's royal lineage and alleged avarice convicted him in the minds of radical leaders and he was sent to his execution in November 1793.\n\nThe women's march was a signal event of the French Revolution, its impact on par with the fall of the Bastille. For its inheritors, the march would stand as an inspirational example, emblematic of the power of popular movements. The occupation of the deputies' benches in the Assembly created a template for the future, forecasting the mob rule that would frequently influence successive Parisian governments. But it was the crudely decisive invasion of the palace itself that was most momentous; the attack removed forever the aura of invincibility that once cloaked the monarchy. It marked the end of the king's resistance to the tide of reform, and he made no further open attempts to push back the Revolution. As one historian states, it was \"one of those defeats of royalty from which it never recovered\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27326309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27326309", "title": "Zip Industries", "text": "Zip Industries\n\nZip Industries is a privately owned Australian business founded by Michael Crouch AC. It makes and markets Australian-designed and Australian-made instant boiling water systems. These are sold in more than seventy countries, where they are specified for use in kitchens, in hospitals, universities, schools and public buildings of every kind, as well as in homes.\n\nSince 1970, Zip has pioneered under-bench instant boiling water systems and since 1996, has marketed under-sink systems that not only dispense boiling filtered water but also instant chilled filtered water, instant chilled sparkling water, and additionally (in some models) both hot and cold water – all from a single electronically controlled tap (faucet).\n\nHeadquartered in Sydney, Zip has Australian customer service offices in Canberra, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Darwin and Townsville. A network of more than 300 trained service technicians provides installation, maintenance and remedial service nationwide.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Zip has customer service offices in London, Birmingham, Manchester and near Norwich, plus warehousing near Norwich and manufacturing facilities at Southport, Merseyside. In New Zealand, Zip trades as Zenith Heaters, with a customer service office in Auckland. Zip distributors are located in Europe (Germany), South Africa, mainland China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Philippines, Cyprus, PNG, Taiwan and Thailand.\n\nPrior to 1962, Zip focused mainly on boiling water heaters for kitchens and then hot water heaters for bathrooms, which it manufactured and marketed in Australia from about 1947, in an era when whole-house hot water had yet to be widely adopted. An early Zip innovation was a manually operated over-sink boiling water heater with a \"ready whistle\" and automatic cut-off, which became a popular fixture in Australian restaurants and community kitchens during the 1950s and 1960s. The company was acquired by Crouch in 1962.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Zip expanded its range of over-sink boiling water heaters (in capacities of 9 to 45 litres) catering for canteen, restaurant, factory and office kitchens needing high volumes of boiling water for tea, coffee and cooking. Larger capacity boiling water heaters were also manufactured for use in dairies.\n\nBy 1970, Zip also installed the world's first \"boiling water tap\" – a boiling water tap (faucet) installed beside standard hot and cold taps. It provided steaming boiling water from an under-sink pressurised cylinder containing water heated to above boiling point. To conform to the safety maintenance requirements of Australian Standards, these models were superseded subsequently by unpressurised systems emitting minimal steam. \n\nBy 1975, Zip complemented its early over-sink boiling water heaters with its first on-wall instant boiling water heaters with enhanced energy efficiency and an increased capacity measured in number of cups of boiling water per hour. These were followed closely by the introduction of the Zip Miniboil, the first truly small on-wall instant boiling water heater. It was a practical, space-saving addition to the smaller office or home kitchen. The Zip Miniboil was followed closely by the Zip Tea Tap, an under-sink, non-pressurized instant boiling water system. It delivered water within one degree of boiling point, with little or no steam, or the spatter, which characterised both the early Zip \"boiling water tap\" and some later boiling water systems, still marketed by competitors in the United Kingdom and Europe. The Zip Tea Tap originated a patented steam condensing system to eliminate the emission of excessive steam in conjunction with boiling water. By 1985, Zip Tea Tap was so well accepted in Australia that it was specified for all of the kitchens and Members' offices in the new Parliament House, Canberra, officially opened in 1988. \n\nIn the early 1990s, Zip introduced a range of advanced on-wall instant boiling water heaters under the Zip Hydroboil brand. These were far more compact, energy-efficient and easier to service than any existing equivalents. Zip Hydroboil models storing between 1.5 and 7.5 litres were produced for workplace kitchens, whilst models storing 15 to 40 litres were produced for restaurant, canteen and institutional kitchens needing higher water volumes. The Zip Hydroboil range has been refined and expanded since, including the introduction in 2008 of electronically controlled models able to maintain boiling water temperature within 0.2 °C of set temperature.\n\nBy 1996, Zip introduced air-cooled Zip HydroTap under-bench filtered instant boiling water systems which also dispensed filtered chilled drinking water from a single touch-button electronic tap – an instant success for workplace and home kitchens in Australia and abroad. By 2004, the initial Zip HydroTap was superseded by re-designed product engineering and a distinctive lever-action electronic tap offering precise water flow control, safety, and power-saving features, plus a \"font\" accessory which enabled the tap to be positioned away from any sink, with independent drainage. The new Zip HydroTap proved popular worldwide. It has been improved each year. Models introduced in 2012 provide sparkling chilled and filtered drinking water (in addition to boiling and chilled) from one tap.\n\nAnother recent Zip innovation, the Zip HydroTap All-In-One, also launched in 2012, gives boiling, chilled and sparkling filtered water plus hot and cold water, from a single source and outlet.\n\nZip manufacturing facilities and head office are located in Sydney, Australia, and Australian made Zip products are now marketed in more than seventy countries. Distributors throughout the South-East Asia were first established in 1982 and 1983. A distributor for Great Britain was engaged in 1987, and instant boiling water systems were exhibited for the first time in Europe when Zip first participated in Europe's Domotechnika and ISH trade shows in 1989 and 1991.\n\nIn 1991, Zip Heaters (UK) Limited was formed to take over UK distribution, and a distributor for Europe, based in Germany, was appointed in 2002. More recently, distributors were appointed in China and a Zip company, Zenith Heaters, became responsible for distribution in New Zealand.\n\nIn addition to its Australian-made range of instant boiling water products, Zip Industries also markets:\n\nA range of Zip touch-free washroom products includes touch-free sensor taps for hand-basins, thermostatic mixing valves for delivery of temperature-controlled water for hand-basins, baths and showers, touch-free automatic hand dryers, and touch-free flushing systems for pan toilets and urinals. Zip is also one of Australia’s leading water filtration companies, servicing filtered drinking water systems in major organisations Australia-wide.\n\nZip Industries was Principal Sponsor for three years (2011, 2012, 2013) of the Sydney Festival, the Southern Hemisphere's largest annual international arts festival involving musical, dance and theatrical performances staged at many locations in and around Sydney throughout January, and jointly supported by the State Government of New South Wales and the City of Sydney.\n\nZip Industries has been a Principal Sponsor since 2009 of the Duke of Edinburgh's Award in Australia, which attracts participation on the part of more than 30,000 young Australians each year. Zip founder, Michael Crouch, served on the National Board of the Duke of Edinburgh Award in Australia, and was Vice-President of the Friends of the Duke of Edinburgh's Award in Australia from 2012 until his death in February 2018. HRH The Duke of Edinburgh presented him with the Duke of Edinburgh's Pin as a World Fellow of the Award, at a ceremony in Canberra in October 2012. In addition, he serves as a board member of The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust in Australia, and is Chairman of The Friends of the Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia.\n\nZip Industries has been a long-term supporter of Symphony of Australia Pty Ltd, an organisation devoted to the establishment of a treasury of Australian cultural history in music and song, in conjunction with the Sydney musician, singer and composer Gavin Lockley.\n\nZip has acted as principal sponsor of a number of major events staged by Symphony of Australia, including the first free orchestral concert ever staged in The Domain, Sydney, to celebrate Australia Day 2010, and an orchestral concert at the Sydney Opera House to celebrate the 85th birthday of The Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia in 2012.\n\nZip also lends support each year to the National Biography Award of Australia, administered by the State Library of New South Wales. Zip founder Michael Crouch and the Award founder, Dr Geoffrey Cains, were joint benefactors.\n\n\n"}
