{"id": "8915627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8915627", "title": "2002 Somali Reconciliation Conference", "text": "2002 Somali Reconciliation Conference\n\nThe 2002 Somali Reconciliation Conference, sometimes called the Eldoret conference were a series of meetings held in Eldoret, Kenya during November 2002. It was attended by most supporters of the Transitional National Government (TNG) of Somalia. The TNG was the predecessor organization of the Transitional Federal Government (TFG).\n\nHowever, at the time, the Rahanweyn Resistance Army (RRA) was still hotly contending with other factions, including warlord Adan Madobe-Habsade, who captured Baidoa. The RRA accused the Juba Valley Alliance of assisting the warlord, an accusation denied by the JVA leader Barre Adan Shire Hiiraale.\n\nFormer President and member of parliament Ali Mahdi Muhammad blamed Ethiopia for interfering in the meetings. He left the conference to return to Mogadishu, saying it was a waste of time.\n"}
{"id": "59205281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59205281", "title": "3CS (research)", "text": "3CS (research)\n\n3CS or the Cambridge Centre for Crop Science is a research institute in Cambridgeshire involved with crop science and food security.\n\nThe site began in 2015. The site received £16.9m funding in 2017 from the UK Research Partnership Investment Fund (UKRPIF) from Research England (United Kingdom Research and Innovation or UKRI).\n\nIt is situated in the north-west of Cambridge. The field station will be built next to the jam factory at Histon.\n\n"}
{"id": "37736268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37736268", "title": "Aerial reconnaissance in World War I", "text": "Aerial reconnaissance in World War I\n\nAerial reconnaissance using heavier-than-air machines was an entirely new science that had to be improvised step-by-step. Early operations were low-level flights with the pilot often dismounting from the plane to report verbally to the nearest officers. Photographic support was urgently developed, initially requiring a full-time photographer on-board to handle the heavy, awkward equipment. The interpreting of aerial images was an important new speciality, essential for accurate mapping. By 1915, air-to-ground radio was in use for reconnaissance pilots.\n\nThe leader in aeronautics at the outset was France, with its Blériot observation planes, while Germany was more advanced in optics. The British were somewhat behind in the early stages, owing to lack of government backing. America would make valuable contributions in the form of multi-lens cameras for precision spotting.\n\nReconnaissance remained an under-rated military art, compared with aerial combat, which gained the publicity, but impacted less on the outcome of the war. \n\nThe first use of an airplane in war was a reconnaissance flight performed on 23 October 1911 by Captain Carlo Maria Piazza in a Blériot XI during the Italo-Turkish War in Tripolitania. Military aerial photography began that December. The experience in World War I would begin on very similar terms, with French Bleriot and German Taube monoplanes. Reconnaissance was widely perceived as the only practical use of airplanes. \nWhile most of the combatant countries possessed a few military aircraft in August 1914, these were almost exclusively devoted to reconnaissance and artillery spotting, supplementing well-tried and familiar platforms like balloons and kites. Tethered balloons could ascend to as high as a mile, but were easy to shoot down. Furthermore, they were unstable observation platforms in any wind, leading to attempts to stabilize them with kite-tails or drogues attached to the basket. Dirigibles like the huge new German Zeppelins were considered the best reconnaissance platforms and they served effectively for maritime patrols. Vertical camera installations were used from the beginning of the war, but they were too heavy and bulky for light airplanes, and most early reconnaissance from airplanes consisted of visual observation and written reports. Handheld cameras were widely used but with disappointing results. Good photographs required both skilled flying and an operator who could devote time to handle the camera and the unwieldy and heavy glass plates it required. In time, longer focal length lenses were used, cameras and gear grew lighter and bigger, and for survival, operating altitudes increased up to the 12-18,000 foot level. Driven high, aircrews began to use oxygen and heated clothing items.\n\nThe critical discipline of communicating results led to rampant improvisation. At first it was not uncommon for aircraft to land next to command posts so the pilot could personally pass on urgent information. For artillery spotting, time was of the essence, and the French tried air-dropped messaging, colored flares, and pre-arranged aircraft maneuvers to convey information. France was reportedly the first to try airborne radios, often transmitters alone due to the weight penalty; others maintain that Britain preceded with the light-weight Sterling radio set in aircraft by 1915.\n\nGermany had a scientific lead and adopted the first aerial camera, a Görz, in 1913. Austria-Hungary followed their lead. Just two weeks into the war, reporters noted of airplanes: “They have ranged constantly over the enemy’s positions, so that the French have always known what the Germans have been doing. This has so disconcerted the latter that they are now making efforts to frighten the French air scouts away.” By 17 August 1914 and repeatedly thereafter, Belgian “air scouts” reported on German troop movements.\n\nFrance was by far the aeronautical leader at the time, and the French Army had incorporated cameras in airplanes from the beginning. France began the war with several squadrons of Blériot observation planes. The French Army developed procedures for getting prints into the hands of field commanders quickly. In Britain, then lagging far behind in aviation, the reconnaissance pioneer F.C.V. Laws established the first heavier-than-air photography unit at Farnborough in 1913, using a Farman fitted with a Watson camera. In stark contrast with the French, early British reconnaissance was essentially conducted on an amateur basis, lacking in official backing.\n\nThe United States played an important role in the last months of the war, using French aircraft and modified cameras. Some techniques and equipment used in civilian surveying and mapping were developed by the US Army Corps of Engineers when the topographic engineer, James W. Bagley, transferred from the US Geological Survey to the army. Major Bagley brought his recently invented tri-lens camera to France, where it was used to make one vertical and two oblique images from airplanes. These images were used to overprint enemy trenches and gun emplacements over existing maps for precision targeting. An example of this camera is held at the Smithsonian Institution: \"This object is on display in the Boeing Aviation Hangar at the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center in Chantilly, VA. Fairchild Aerial Camera Corporation built the production model of the T-2 and T-2A four-lens camera, which improved upon the T-1 tri-lens mapping camera developed by Maj. James Bagley of the U.S. Army Signal Corps. The T-2A had one vertical lens and three oblique lenses set at 35 degrees, which provided a 120-degree field of view at right angles to the direction of flight. Four lens caps are also displayed.\"\n\nItaly and Russia had prominent roles as well, with Italy deploying some of the best performing aircraft. The small Ottoman air forces were mostly an extension of German air power. The failure of the Schlieffen Plan offensive in 1914 is attributed in part to French air superiority blinding German reconnaissance, but the German victory at Tannenberg is thought to have been helped by prompt response to air intelligence about Russian movements.\n\nDespite the improvised start, all sides quickly learned the importance of aerial photography, and by 1916 heavier-than-air reconnaissance was a regular practice along the front. This in turn necessitated fighter escorts, and thus drove much of the rapid aeronautical progress of the four years of war. Support of ground forces was almost the sole role of reconnaissance; strategic air war concepts were as yet embryonic. At sea, lighter-than-air photography still dominated; but Zeppelins turned out to be very vulnerable over settled areas. Flying boats and seaplanes (\"Hydro-aeroplanes\")came into their own for coastal patrol duties. By the end of the war both sides maintained detailed maps of the front derived from mosaics of aerial photographs. Germany alone reportedly generated 4,000 images a day in 1918.\nAll major combatants maintained traditional units of kite-balloons and airships for point surveillance and reconnaissance. These were vulnerable and tethered balloon observers were the first to use parachutes. Lighter-than-air platforms would soon be eclipsed, though not replaced, by fixed-wing aircraft.\n\nAt the beginning, France had a significant corps of Blériot type observation aircraft, soon replaced by a profusion of more capable types. The Royal Flying Corps entered the war with the slow but stable and reliable B.E.2 reconnaissance aircraft. It served acceptably in the role until new German fighters drove it from the skies in 1915-16. B.E.2 variants typically mounted a vertical camera outside the pilot’s (rear) cockpit. The more capable but similar R.E.8 replaced the B.E.2c as the standard RAF reconnaissance aircraft and remained in that role despite requiring escort for survival. British aircraft used the Watson Air Camera, the Type A camera, and later the C, E, L and finally L/B cameras (L for Laws and B for Brabazon) developed specifically for aircraft. The early C-type used the available 12 inch lenses and a 4×5 in (10x12.5 cm)plate. The Allies began to standardize on 18×24 cm plates and 25, 50 and 120 cm focal lengths, 50 being the most common.\n\nThe Central Powers used many different aircraft but especially Rumpler and Albatros types mounting Görz and ICA cameras. The Germans used also a standard 70 cm focal length and 13×18 cm plates. The radio-equipped unarmed photoship Rumpler C.VII (Rubild) — for \"Rumpler-Bildflugzeug\" (picture-aircraft) — distinguished itself for long-range and high-altitude, reaching 21,000 feet. Unusual recon aircraft included the armored Junkers J.I for low-level flights, the gigantic long-range Ilya Muromets from Russia, and the high-performing (at well over 200 km/h top speed) Italian Ansaldo SVA, considered nearly uninterceptable. Italy standardized on the simple 24-plate Lamperti camera.\nGerman optics was overwhelmingly superior, as exemplified by Carl Zeiss lenses and optical glass. The Allies had to quickly learn to make lenses especially for long foci. In the meantime they had to make do with such short-focus lenses as could be found. When the U.S. entered the war, the Army urgently requested that American civilians turn in their lenses and optics, including telescopes and binoculars, for aerial use, specifically naming several sought-after German manufactures. Cameras quickly became large and mechanically very complex. German and Italian cameras generally used 13×18 cm plates. France standardized on the advanced deMaria cameras of various configurations. For the last two years of the war, Britain used almost exclusively the 35-pound, semi-automatic, prop-driven L camera.\n\nAs was the case for airplanes, the U.S. made use of French and British cameras. As an example, the semi-automatic American deRam (from the French) weighed 45 kg, had a focal length of 50 cm (standard), and took 18×24 cm plates. The U.S. flew Curtiss Jennys with Folmer-Schwing (Graflex) handheld cameras during the Mexican excursion in 1916. These became the K-1, first in a long line of U.S. aerial cameras. The attempts at Allied interoperability was thus described at the time: “The task of harmonizing the photographic practice as taught in America, following English lines, with French practice as followed in the theater of war, and of adapting planes built on English designs so that they could carry French apparatus, was a formidable one, not likely to be soon forgotten by any who had a part in it.”\n\nOverlapping stereoscopic photos began to be taken, requiring carefully timed exposures. Fully automatic cameras and film cameras came into use. Germany began using electrically heated cameras and devised engine-driven generator power. Wind-driven generators, both venturis and small props, came into use for automation. Suction was used to keep film flat on the plate. Despite the weight penalty, radiotelegraphy gradually replaced earlier “message-in-a-bottle” airdrops. Simple codes for artillery spotting were worked out. Despite some experiments, night photography was unsuccessful due to insufficient flash power and film speed, and inability to precisely time the exposure to the illumination.\n\nAt the end of the war, aerial photography was an enormous ongoing project. The number of exposed images numbered in the millions, with many more prints. Large photo-mosaics covering the entire Western Front at scales as low as 1:8000 were created and continuously updated. It is estimated that about one third of sorties were devoted to reconnaissance.\nFrom an essentially zero base, armies had to create and train interpretation units, since the aerial view and stereoscopic view was quite alien to what ground-based reconnaissance would see. Interpreters had to have extensive knowledge of military hardware. They had to learn how to use shadows for size estimation, and to detect the increasing use of camouflage and decoys. Equally importantly, interpreters learned to standardize annotations and present comprehensive marked-up imagery to commanders. The static fronts and fixed fortifications in Europe were especially suitable for turning the art of interpretation into a science, while the far-ranging operations in the desert and at sea put a great premium on serendipitous discovery and resourcefulness.\n\nMaritime reconnaissance tended to generate its own separate technology and procedures, aided by the customary sharp separation of the fleet from the armies. In the air, however, the two services overlapped, which began to cause friction in assigning responsibilities, especially for sea powers like the U.K. and the U.S. The use of ship-based observation aircraft (though not true carriers) was already well advanced by the end of the war. This quickly became a force multiplier for the fleet. It complicated offensive sea power; for example, Zeppelin surveillance of the North Sea made it difficult for the Royal Navy to exploit its naval superiority.\n\nIn four years, commanders learned that reconnaissance innately favors the defensive, as it reduces surprises and makes it difficult for the opponent to mass forces for attack. Inability to conduct reconnaissance, such as due to weather or enemy air domination, conversely leaves one highly vulnerable, as occurred repeatedly during the War. Commanders learned that in aircraft, there is no substitute for performance, and in cameras, no substitute for focal length. They learned to regularly monitor the opponent in order to detect any changes; and they learned the absolute necessity of maintaining libraries and institutional knowledge of targets and of the visual “signatures” of not only equipment, but the subtle effects thereof – tracks, marks, etc. – on the environment. Experts agree that most of this had to be relearned the hard way two decades later.\n\nPerennial problems included the shortage of trained and experienced photo-interpreters, the difficulty in distributing timely and interpreted prints to exactly the commanders needing them, a lack of overall coordination of effort and centralized interpretation (a \"common air picture\"), and the tendency of field commanders to demand risky, repeated flights for objectives only for the photos to languish in files somewhere along the process.\n\nFinally, the recurrent pattern of reconnaissance not gaining recognition commensurate with its importance developed during these years. There were no “reconnaissance aces” and recon pilots were not household names. Air combat gained immense publicity, but – apart from reconnaissance – air operations had negligible military effect. This imbalance in perception would have consequences for preparedness in later years.\n\n"}
{"id": "21400502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21400502", "title": "Agentic leadership", "text": "Agentic leadership\n\nAgentic leadership derives from the term agency. This leadership style is generally found in the business field by a person who is respected by subordinates. This person demonstrates assertiveness, competitiveness, independence, courageousness, and is masterful in achieving their task at hand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33968433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33968433", "title": "Anomaly Detection at Multiple Scales", "text": "Anomaly Detection at Multiple Scales\n\nAnomaly Detection at Multiple Scales, or ADAMS, is a $35 million DARPA project designed to identify patterns and anomalies in very large data sets. It is under DARPA's Information Innovation office and began in 2011.\n\nThe project is intended to detect and prevent insider threats such as \"a soldier in good mental health becoming homicidal or\nsuicidal\", an \"innocent insider becoming malicious\", or \"a government employee <nowiki>[</nowiki>who<nowiki>]</nowiki> abuses access privileges to share classified information\". Specific cases mentioned are Nidal Malik Hasan and WikiLeaks source Chelsea Manning. Commercial applications may include finance. The intended recipients of the system output are operators in the counterintelligence agencies.\n\nThe Proactive Discovery of Insider Threats Using Graph Analysis and Learning is part of the ADAMS project. The Georgia Tech team includes noted high-performance computing researcher David A. Bader.\n\n"}
{"id": "19713345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19713345", "title": "Artivist Film Festival &amp; Awards", "text": "Artivist Film Festival &amp; Awards\n\nThe Artivist Film Festival & Awards is an international film festival and awards ceremony dedicated to recognizing activist efforts of filmmakers, specifically in the areas of human rights, child advocacy, environmental preservation, and animal rights.\n\nThe Festival is held annually and tours internationally. Its mission is to strengthen the voice of activist/artists (\"artivists\"), while raising awareness for global causes. The festival is produced by Artivist Collective, a nonprofit organization founded in August 2003 by Diaky Diaz, Bettina Wolff, and Christopher Riedesel.\n\nThe first \"Artivist Film & Awards Festival\" was held April 27, 2007 at Hollywood's Egyptian Theater. Honorees were Ed Begley, Jr., Tippi Hedren, Mike Farrell and France Nuyen.\n\nSet to coincide with Earth Day, when the 2nd Annual \"Artivist Film Festival\" began on April 20, 2005, Los Angeles Mayor James Hahn declared the day \"Artivist Day\", and among the festival's 2005 honorees were James Cromwell and Mira Sorvino.\n\nThe third annual festival was held in Los Angeles on November 9, 2006, and premiered the film \"Fast Food Nation\". Festival honorees included Joaquin Phoenix, Daryl Hannah, and Matthew McConaughey.\n\nArtivist’s advisory board includes Congressman Dennis Kucinich, actor James Cromwell, actor/director James Haven, and Senator Barbara Boxer. Past honorees include Ted Danson, Alyssa Milano, Claes Nobel, James Cromwell, Mira Sorvino, Ed Begley, Jr., Tippi Hedren, Mike Farrell, France Nuyen, Joaquin Phoenix, Daryl Hannah, and Matthew McConaughey, among others.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1185168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1185168", "title": "Automatic Warning System", "text": "Automatic Warning System\n\nThe Automatic Warning System (AWS) was introduced in 1956 in the United Kingdom to provide a train driver with an audible warning and visual reminder that they were approaching a distant signal at caution.\nIts operation was later extended to give warnings for;\n\nAWS was based on a 1930 system developed by Alfred Ernest Hudd (ca. 1883-1958) and marketed as the \"Strowger-Hudd\" system. An earlier contact system, installed on the Great Western Railway since 1906 and known as automatic train control (ATC), was gradually supplanted by AWS within the Western Region of British Railways.\n\nInformation is conveyed by electromagnetic induction to the moving train through equipment fixed in the middle of the track, known as an \"AWS magnet\". The system works by the train detecting sequences and polarities of magnetic fields passing between the track equipment and the train equipment via a receiver under the train. Multiple unit trains have a receiver at each end. Vehicles that can operate singly (single car DMUs and locomotives) only have one. This could be either at the front or rear depending on the direction the vehicle is travelling in.\n\nThe equipment on a train consists of;\n\nAs the train passes over an AWS magnet, the 'sunflower' indicator in the driver's cab will change to \"all black\". If the signal being approached is displaying a 'clear' for a semaphore or green for a multiple aspect colour light signal, the AWS will sound a bell (modern locomotives/multiple units use an electronic sounder that gives a distinctive 'ping') and leave the visual indicator black. This lets the driver know that the next signal is showing 'clear' and that the AWS system is working.\n\nIf the signal being approached is displaying a restrictive aspect (red, yellow or double yellow in colour-light installations or a distant semaphore at caution (horizontal)), the AWS will sound a horn. The driver then has approximately 2 seconds to cancel the warning by pressing and releasing the AWS/TPWS acknowledgement button (if a driver should collapse onto the button or keep it held down, the AWS will not be cancelled). On cancelling the warning, the horn then stops and the visual indicator changes to a pattern of black and yellow spokes, which persists until the next AWS magnet and reminds the driver that they have cancelled the AWS.\n\nAs a fail-safe mechanism, if the driver fails to cancel the warning in time, the emergency brake will apply and bring the train to a stand. When this occurs the red \"Brake demand\" light will flash on the AWS/TPWS Driver machine interface. The driver must now push the AWS/TPWS acknowledgement button, and the brakes will release after a safety time out period has elapsed.\n\nAWS is provided at most main aspect signals on running lines, though there are some exceptions:\nThe system works in the same way as for signals, except that a fixed magnet positioned between the running rails is located at the service braking distance before the speed reduction. The single magnet will always cause a horn (caution) to sound in the cab, which the driver must cancel to prevent the emergency brake applying. Beyond the magnet, a lineside warning board will advise the driver of the speed requirement ahead.\n\nEarly devices used a mechanical connection between the signal and the locomotive. In 1840, the locomotive engineer Edward Bury experimented with a system whereby a lever at track level, connected to the signal, sounded the locomotive's whistle and turned a cab-mounted red lamp. Ten years later, the redoubtable Colonel William Yolland of the Railway Inspectorate was calling for a system that not only alerted the driver but also automatically applied the brakes when signals were passed at danger but no satisfactory method of bringing this about was found.\n\nIn 1873, United Kingdom Patent No. 3286 was granted to C. Davidson and C.D. Williams for a system in which, if a signal was passed at danger, a trackside lever operated the locomotive's whistle, applied the brake, shut off steam and alerted the guard. Numerous similar patents followed but they all bore the same disadvantage – that they could not be used at higher speeds for risk of damage to the mechanism – and they came to nothing. In Germany, the Kofler system used arms projecting from signal posts to connect with a pair of levers, one representing \"caution\" and the other \"stop\", mounted on the locomotive cab roof. To address the problem of operation at speed, the sprung mounting for the levers was connected directly to the locomotive's axle box to ensure correct alignment. When Berlin's S-Bahn was electrified in 1929, a development of this system, with the contact levers moved from the roofs to the sides of the trains, was installed at the same time.\n\nThe first useful device was invented by Vincent Raven of the North Eastern Railway in 1895, patent number 23384. Although this provided audible warning only, it did indicate to the driver when points ahead were set for a diverging route. By 1909, the company had installed it on about 100 miles of track. In 1907 Frank Wyatt Prentice patented a radio signalling system, using a continuous cable laid between the rails to relay \"Hertzian Waves\" to the locomotive. The signal was turned off if the block were not \"clear\", a white or green light in the cab then turned to red and the brakes were applied. The LSWR installed the system on its Hampton Court Branch in 1911, but shortly after removed it when the line was electrified.\n\nThe first system to be put into wide use was developed in 1905 by the Great Western Railway and protected by UK patents 12661 and 25955. Its benefits over previous systems were that it could be used at high speed and that it sounded a confirmation in the cab when a signal was passed at clear.\n\nIn the final version of the GWR system, the locomotives were fitted with a solenoid-operated valve into the vacuum train pipe, maintained in the closed position by a battery. At each distant signal, a long ramp was placed between the rails. This ramp consisted of a straight metal blade set edge-on, almost parallel to the direction of travel (the blade was slightly offset from parallel so in its fixed position it would not wear a groove into the locomotives' contact shoes), mounted on a wooden support. As the locomotive passed over the ramp, a sprung contact shoe beneath the locomotive was lifted and the battery current holding closed the brake valve was broken. In the case of a clear signal, current from a battery energising the ramp (but at opposite polarity) passed to the locomotive through the contact and maintained the brake valve in the closed position, with the reversed-polarity current ringing a bell in the cab. When the signal was at 'danger', the ramp battery was disconnected and so could not replace the locomotive's battery current: the brake valve solenoid would then be released and a horn sounded in the cab. The driver was then expected to cancel the warning and apply the brakes under his own control.\n\nNotwithstanding the heavy commitment of maintaining the batteries in the locomotives and signal boxes, the GWR installed the equipment on all its main lines. For many years, Western Region (successors to the GWR) locomotives were dual fitted with both GWR ATC and BR AWS system.\n\nBy the 1930s, other railway companies, under pressure from the Ministry of Transport, were considering systems of their own. A non-contact method based on magnetic induction was preferred, to eliminate the problems caused by snowfall and day-to-day wear of the contacts which had been discovered in existing systems. The Strowger-Hudd system of Alfred Hudd, which used a pair of magnets, one a permanent and one an electro-magnet, was tested by the Southern Railway, London and North Eastern Railway and the London, Midland and Scottish Railway but these trials came to nothing.\n\nIn 1948 Hudd, now working for the LMS, equipped the London, Tilbury and Southend line, a division of the LMS, with his system. It was successful and British Railways developed the mechanism further by providing a visual indication in the cab of the aspect of the last signal passed. In 1956, the Ministry of Transport evaluated the GWR, LTS and BR systems and selected the one developed by BR as standard for Britain's railways. This was in response to the Harrow and Wealdstone accident in 1952.\n\nNetwork Rail (NR) AWS consists of:\n\nThe system works on a set/reset principle.\nWhen the signal is at 'clear' or green (\"off\"), the electro-magnet is energised. As the train passes, the permanent magnet sets the system. A short time later, as the train moves forward, the electromagnet resets the system. Once so reset, a bell is sounded (a chime on newer stock) and the indicator is set to all black if it is not already so. No acknowledgement is required from the driver. The system must be reset within one second of being set, otherwise it behaves as for a caution indication.\n\nAn additional safeguard is included in the distant-signal control wiring to ensure the AWS \"clear\" indication is only given when the distant is proved \"off\" – mechanical semaphore distants have a contact in the electromagnet coil circuit closed only when the arm is raised or lowered by at least 27.5 degrees. Colour-light signals have a current sensing relay in the lamp lighting circuit to prove the signal alight, this is used in combination with the relay controlling the green aspect to energise the AWS electro-magnet. In a Solid State Interlocking the signal module has a \"Green-Proved\" output from its driver electronics that is used to energise the electromagnet.\n\nWhen the distant signal is at 'caution' or yellow (on), the electro-magnet is de-energised. As the train passes, the permanent magnet sets the system. However, since the electro-magnet is de-energised, the system is not reset. After the one-second delay within which the system can be reset, a horn warning is given until the driver acknowledges by pressing a plunger. If the driver fails to acknowledge the warning within 2.75 seconds, the brakes are automatically applied. If the driver does acknowledge the warning, the indicator disk changes to yellow and black, to remind the driver that he has acknowledged a warning. The yellow and black indication persists until the next signal and serves as a reminder between signals that the driver is proceeding under caution. The one-second delay before the horn sounds allows the system to operate correctly down to speeds as low as 1.75 miles per hour. Below this speed, the caution horn warning will always be given, but it will be automatically cancelled when the electromagnet resets the system if the driver has not already done so. The display will indicate all black once the system resets.\n\nThe system is fail-safe since, in the event of a loss of power, only the electro-magnet is affected and therefore all trains passing will receive a warning. The system suffers one drawback in that on single track lines, the track equipment will set the AWS system on a train travelling in the opposite direction from that for which the track equipment is intended but not reset it as the electromagnet is encountered before the permanent magnet. To overcome this, a suppressor magnet may be installed in place of an ordinary permanent magnet. When energised, its suppressing coil diverts the magnetic flux from the permanent magnet so that no warning is received on the train. The suppressor magnet is fail-safe since loss of power will cause it to act like an ordinary permanent magnet. A cheaper alternative is the installation of a lineside sign that notifies the driver to cancel and ignore the warning. This sign is a blue square board with a white St Andrew's cross on it (or a yellow board with a black cross, if provided in conjunction with a temporary speed restriction).\n\nWith mechanical signalling, the AWS system was installed only at distant signals but, with multi-aspect signalling, it is fitted at all main line signals. All signal aspects, except green, cause the horn to sound and the indicator disc to change to yellow on black.\n\nAWS equipment without electromagnets are fitted at locations where a caution signal is invariably required or where a temporary caution is needed (for example, a temporary speed restriction). This is a secondary advantage of the system because temporary AWS equipment need only contain a permanent magnet. No electrical connection or supply is needed. In this case, the caution indication in the cab will persist until the next green signal is encountered.\n\nTo verify that the on-train equipment is functioning correctly motive power depot exit lines are fitted with a 'Shed Test Inductor' that produces a caution indication for vehicles entering service. Due to the low speed used on such lines the size of the track equipment is reduced from that found on the operational network.\n\n'Standard Strength' magnets are used everywhere except in d.c. third rail electrification areas and are painted yellow. The minimum field strength to operate the on-train equipment is 2 mT (measured 125mm (5\") above the track equipment casing). Typical track equipment produces a field of 5 mT (measured under the same conditions). 'Shed Test Inductors typically produce a field of 2.5 mT (measured under the same conditions). Where d.c. third rail electrification is installed 'Extra Strength' magnets are fitted and are painted green. This is because the current in the third rail produces a magnetic field of its own which would swamp the 'Standard Strength' magnets.\n\n\nAWS has only two states; clear and caution. It does not provide any information about what the hazard is.\n\nAWS is a warning system which is designed to be cancelled by the driver. It is possible for a driver on a crowded suburban railway to run all day on cautionary aspects. Continually cancelling warnings can lead to a state of conditioning where the driver fails to take appropriate action when necessary. This has led to a number of fatal accidents.\n\nIt is possible for AWS to develop a wrong-side failure whereby the driver is given no indication or a 'clear' indication instead of a 'caution'. Because of this the rulebook states that \"AWS does not relieve the driver of the responsibility of observing and obeying lineside signals and indicators.\"\n\nAlso, there is no automatic brake application when a stop signal is passed. The newer TPWS, which is installed at signals where there is a risk of conflicting movements, the approach to reductions of permissible speed of more than a third and buffer stops, overcomes this problem.\n\nBecause the permanent magnet is located in the centre of the track, it operates in both directions. The permanent magnet can be suppressed by an electric coil of suitable strength.\n\nWhere signals applying to opposing directions of travel on the same line are suitably positioned relative to each other (i.e. facing each other and about 400yds apart), common track equipment may be used, comprising an unsuppressed permanent magnet sandwiched between with both signals' electro-magnets.\n\nOne of the mining railways in this country had a more advanced AWS system that employed two or three magnets of either polarity and located near the rails to avoid the suppression problem. The system was therefore able to give more aspects than the BR version.\n\nThe BR AWS system is also used in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5334719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5334719", "title": "Basic Allowance for Housing", "text": "Basic Allowance for Housing\n\nBasic Allowance for Housing (BAH) is a United States military privilege given to many military members. It was previously called Basic allowance for quarters (BAQ) and is administered by the Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO).\n\nBAH is given to members so that they can provide housing for themselves and their dependents (usually spouse and children). BAH is given when the member or their dependents do not occupy government quarters or barracks.\n\nBAH is non taxable money paid on a monthly basis. There are 3 factors for determining the amount of BAH:\n\nThe following \"do not\" affect the amount of BAH:\n\nReservists who are activated, even if they are housed by the military during their mobilization, are still paid BAH on the assumption that a reservist still may have the civilian obligations (like a mortgage) that BAH is designed to offset.\n\nLastly, veterans who are full-time students taking advantage of the Post 9-11 GI Bill are given an allowance pegged to the BAH with dependents rate for an E-5, irrespective of their rank or dependent status.\n\nA service member who is married makes substantially more allowance money than a single member. Reports of soldiers marrying for the extra pay are not uncommon.\n\nRobert D. Niehaus, Inc. (RDN), a private firm based in California is contracted to provide the data used to calculate BAH allowances.\n\nEvery location in the U.S. has a BAH, including those without a significant military population. Non-military areas are combined with similar priced rental markets based on U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD)'s Fair Market Rent (FMR) data, and then use same RDN BAH source data available for similar areas. These comparably priced groups are called \"County Cost Groups\" (CCGs). There are 39 CCGs in the U.S, consisting of half of all counties (about 1,500) containing less than two percent of the uniformed services' population eligible to receive BAH.\n\nThe following data sources are used to determine BAH:\n\nBAH changes every year, based on data gather during the Summer / Spring active rental seasons. Generally BAH changes 2-5% annually and 5-10% in \"hot\" markets.\n\nOverseas Housing Allowance, or OHA may be given instead of BAH when a member is stationed outside the United States. Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA) which is similar, but has some significant differences. In OHA, each country, and each region in a country have a cap on a per month basis as to what the military will pay for housing. OHA is the exact amount of monthly rent in the local currency (so the exchange rate is taken into consideration each month as the member is paid in US dollars) up to the cap.\n\nOHA may also be paid in certain circumstances if the dependents are living overseas, for example if a member is deployed, and the dependents stay in a country outside of the US.\n\nFrequently a \"utility allowance\" also accompanies OHA. This is usually a flat rate given to the member to cover the cost of utilities, regardless of the actual amount.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20854645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20854645", "title": "British Empire in World War II", "text": "British Empire in World War II\n\nWhen the United Kingdom declared war on Nazi Germany at the outset of World War II it controlled to varying degrees numerous crown colonies, protectorates and the Indian Empire. It also maintained unique political ties to four semi-independent Dominions—Australia, Canada, South Africa, and New Zealand—as part of the Commonwealth. In 1939 the British Commonwealth was a global superpower, with direct or de facto political and economic control of 25% of the world's population, and 30% of its land mass.\n\nThe contribution of the British Empire and Commonwealth in terms of manpower and materiel was critical to the Allied war effort. From September 1939 to mid-1942 Britain led Allied efforts in almost every global military theatre. Commonwealth forces (United Kingdom, Colonial, Imperial and Dominion), totalling close to 15 million serving men and women, fought the German, Italian, Japanese and other Axis armies, air forces and navies across Europe, Africa, Asia, and in the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic, Indian, Pacific and Arctic Oceans. Commonwealth forces fought in Britain, and across Northwestern Europe in the effort to slow or stop the Axis advance. Commonwealth airforces fought the Luftwaffe to a standstill over Britain, and its armies fought and destroyed Italian forces in North and East Africa and occupied several overseas colonies of German-occupied European nations. Following successful engagements against Axis forces, Commonwealth troops invaded and occupied Libya, Italian Somaliland, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Iceland, the Faroe Islands, and Madagascar.\n\nThe Commonwealth defeated, held back or slowed the Axis powers for three years while mobilizing their globally integrated economy, military, and industrial infrastructure to build what became, by 1942, the most extensive military apparatus of the war. These efforts came at the cost of 150,000 military deaths, 400,000 wounded, 100,000 prisoners, over 300,000 civilian deaths, and the loss of 70 major warships, 39 submarines, 3,500 aircraft, 1,100 tanks and 65,000 vehicles. During this period the Commonwealth built an enormous military and industrial capacity. Britain became the nucleus of the Allied war effort in Europe, and hosted governments in exile in London to rally support in occupied Europe for the Allied effort. Canada delivered almost $4 billion in direct financial aid to the United Kingdom, and Australia and New Zealand began shifting to domestic production to provide material aid to US forces in the Pacific. Following the US entry into the war in December 1941, the Commonwealth and United States coordinated their military efforts and resources globally. As the scale of the US military involvement and industrial production increased, the US undertook command of many theatres, relieving Commonwealth forces for duty elsewhere, and expanding the scope and intensity of Allied military efforts.\n\nHowever, it also proved difficult to co-ordinate the defence of far-flung colonies and Commonwealth countries from simultaneous attacks by the Axis Powers. In part this was exacerbated by disagreements over priorities and objectives, as well as the deployment and control of joint forces. The governments of Britain and Australia, in particular, turned to the United States for support. Although the British Empire and the Commonwealth countries all emerged from the war as victors, and the conquered territories were returned to British rule, the costs of the war and the nationalist fervour that it had stoked became a catalyst for the decolonisation which took place in the following decades.\n\nFrom 1923, defence of British colonies and protectorates in East Asia and Southeast Asia was centred on the \"Singapore strategy\". This made the assumption that Britain could send a fleet to its naval base in Singapore within two or three days of a Japanese attack, while relying on France to provide assistance in Asia via its colony in Indochina and, in the event of war with Italy, to help defend British territories in the Mediterranean. Pre-war planners did not anticipate the fall of France: Nazi occupation, the loss of control over the Channel, and the employment of French Atlantic ports as forward bases for U-boats directly threatened Britain itself, forcing a significant reassessment of naval defence priorities.\n\nDuring the 1930s, a triple threat emerged for the British Commonwealth in the form of right-wing, militaristic governments in Germany, Italy and Japan. Germany threatened Britain itself, while Italy and Japan's imperial ambitions looked set to clash with the British imperial presence in the Mediterranean and East Asia respectively. However, there were differences of opinion within the UK and the Dominions as to which posed the most serious threat, and whether any attack would come from more than one power at the same time.\n\nOn 1 September 1939, Germany invaded Poland. Two days later, on 3 September, after a British ultimatum to Germany to cease military operations was ignored, Britain and France declared war on Germany. Britain's declaration of war automatically committed India, the Crown colonies, and the protectorates, but the 1931 Statute of Westminster had granted autonomy to the Dominions so each decided their course separately.\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Robert Menzies immediately joined the British declaration on 3 September, believing that it applied to all subjects of the Empire and Commonwealth. New Zealand followed suit simultaneously, at 9.30 pm on 3 September (local time), after Peter Fraser consulted the Cabinet; although as Chamberlain's broadcast was drowned by static, the Cabinet (led by Fraser as Prime Minister Mickey Savage was terminally ill) delayed until the Admiralty announced to the fleet a state of war, then backdated the declaration to 9.30 pm. South Africa took three days to make its decision (on 6 September), as the Prime Minister General J. B. M. Hertzog favoured neutrality but was defeated by the pro-war vote in the Union Parliament, led by General Jan Smuts, who then replaced Hertzog. Canadian Prime Minister Mackenzie King declared support for Britain on the day of the British declaration, but also stated that it was for Parliament to make the formal declaration, which it did so one week later on 10 September. The Irish Free State, which had been a dominion until 1937, remained neutral\nWhile the war was initially intended to be limited, resources were mobilized quickly, and the first shots were fired almost immediately. Just hours after the Australian declaration of war, a gun at Fort Queenscliff fired across the bows of a ship as it attempted to leave Melbourne without required clearances. On 10 October 1939, an aircraft of No. 10 Squadron RAAF based in England became the first Commonwealth air force unit to go into action when it undertook a mission to Tunisia. The first Canadian convoy of 15 ships bearing war goods departed Halifax just six days after the nation declared war, with two destroyers and . A further 26 convoys of 527 ships sailed from Canada in the first four months of the war, and by 1 January 1940 Canada had landed an entire division in Britain. On 13 June 1940 Canadian troops deployed to France in an attempt to secure the southern flank of the British Expeditionary Force in Belgium. As the fall of France grew imminent, Britain looked to Canada to rapidly provide additional troops to strategic locations in North America, the Atlantic and Caribbean. Following the Canadian destroyer already on station from 1939, Canada provided troops from May 1940 to assist in the defence of the British Caribbean colonies, with several companies serving throughout the war in Bermuda, Jamaica, the Bahamas and British Guiana. Canadian troops were also sent to the defence of the colony of Newfoundland, on Canada's east coast, the closest point in North America to Germany. Fearing the loss of a land link to the British Isles, Canada was also requested to also occupy Iceland, which it did from June 1940 to the spring of 1941, following the initial British invasion.\n\nFrom mid-June 1940, following the rapid German invasions and occupations of Poland, Denmark, Norway, France, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, the British Commonwealth was the main opponent of Germany and the Axis, until the entry into the war of the Soviet Union in June 1941. During this period Australia, India, New Zealand and South Africa provided dozens of ships and several divisions for the defence of the Mediterranean, Greece, Crete, Lebanon and Egypt, where British troops were outnumbered four to one by the Italian armies in Libya and Ethiopia. Canada delivered a further 2nd Canadian Infantry Division, pilots for two air squadrons, and several warships to Britain to face a possible invasion from the continent.\n\nIn December 1941, Japan launched, in quick succession, attacks on British Malaya, the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, and Hong Kong.\n\nSubstantial financial support was provided by Canada to the UK and Commonwealth dominions, in the form of over $4 billion in aid through the Billion Dollar Gift and Mutual Aid and the War Appropriation Act. Over the course of the war over 1.6 million Canadians served in uniform (out of a prewar population of 11 million), in almost every theatre of the war, and by war's end the country had the third-largest navy and fourth-largest air force in the world. By the end of the war, almost a million Australians had served in the armed forces (out of a population of under 7 million), whose military units fought primarily in Europe, North Africa, and the South West Pacific.\n\nThe British Commonwealth Air Training Plan (also known as the \"Empire Air Training Scheme\") was established by the governments of Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the UK resulting in:\n\nBritain borrowed everywhere it could and made heavy purchases of munitions and supplies in India and Canada during the war, as well as other parts of the Empire and neutral countries. Canada also made gifts. Britain's sterling balances around the world amounted to ₤3.4 billion in 1945 or the equivalent of about $US 200 billion in 2016 dollars. However, Britain treated this as a long-term loan with no interest and no specified repayment date. Just when the money would be made available by London was an issue, for the British treasury was nearly empty by 1945. \n\nIn June 1940, France surrendered to invading German forces, and Italy joined the war on the Axis side, causing a reversal of the Singapore strategy. Winston Churchill, who had replaced Neville Chamberlain as British Prime Minister the previous month (see Norway debate), ordered that the Middle East and the Mediterranean were of a higher priority than the Far East to defend. Australia and New Zealand were told by telegram that they should turn to the United States for help in defending their homeland should Japan attack:\n\nCommonwealth forces played a major role in North and East Africa following Italy's entry to the war, participating in the invasion of Italian Libya and Somaliland, but were forced to retreat after Churchill diverted resources to Greece and Crete.\n\nThe Battle of Singapore was fought in the South-East Asian theatre of World War II when the Japanese Empire invaded British Malaya and its stronghold of Singapore. Singapore was the major British military base in South East Asia and nicknamed the \"Gibraltar of the East\". The fighting in Singapore lasted from 31 January 1942 to 15 February 1942. It followed a humiliating naval engagement in December 1941 in which two British capital ships were sunk.\n\nIt resulted in the fall of Singapore to the Japanese, and the largest surrender of British-led military personnel in history. About 80,000 British, Australian and Indian troops became prisoners of war, joining 50,000 taken by the Japanese in the Malayan campaign. Britain's Prime Minister Winston Churchill called the ignominious fall of Singapore to the Japanese the \"worst disaster\" and \"largest capitulation\" in British history.\n\nAfrica was a large continent whose geography gave it strategic importance during the war. North Africa was the scene of major campaigns against Italy and Germany; East Africa was the scene of a major campaign against Italy. The vast geography provided major transportation routes linking the United States to the Middle East and Mediterranean regions. The sea route around South Africa was heavily used even though it added 40 days to voyages that had to avoid the dangerous Suez region. Lend Lease supplies to Russia often came this way. Internally, long-distance road and railroad connections facilitated the British war effort. The Union of Africa had dominion status and was largely self-governing, the other British possessions were ruled by the colonial office, usually with close ties to local chiefs and kings. France had extensive possessions in Africa, but they played a much smaller role in the war, since they were largely tied to Vichy France. Portuguese holdings played a minor role. Italian holdings were the target of successful British military campaigns. The Belgian Congo, and two other Belgian colonies, were major exporters. In terms of numbers and wealth, the British -controlled the richest portions of Africa, and made extensive use not only of the geography, but the manpower, and the natural resources. Civilian colonial officials made a special effort to upgrade the African infrastructure, promote agriculture, integrate colonial Africa with the world economy, and recruit over a half million soldiers. \n\nBefore the war, Britain had made few plans for the utilization of Africa, but it quickly set up command structures. The Army set up the West Africa Command, which recruited 200,000 soldiers. The East Africa Command was created in September 1941 to support the overstretched Middle East Command. The Southern Command was the domain of South Africa. The Royal Navy set up the South Atlantic Command based in Sierra Leone, that became one of the main convoy assembly points. The RAF Coastal Command had major submarine-hunting operations based in West Africa, while a smaller RAF command Dealt with submarines in the Indian Ocean. Ferrying aircraft from North America and Britain was the major mission of the Western Desert Air Force. In addition smaller more localized commands were set up throughout the war.\n\nBefore the war, the military establishments were very small throughout British Africa, and largely consisted of whites, who comprised only two percent of the population outside Africa. As soon as the war began, newly created African units were set up, primarily by the Army. The new recruits were almost always volunteers, usually provided in close cooperation with local tribal leaders. During the war, military pay scales far exceeded what civilians natives could earn, especially when food, housing and clothing allowances are included. The largest numbers were in construction units, called Pioneer Units, with over 82,000 soldiers.. The RAF and Navy also did some recruiting. East Africa provided the largest number of men, over 320,000, chiefly from Kenya, Tanganyika, and Uganda. They did some fighting, a great deal of guard duty, and construction work. 80,000 served in the Middle East. A special effort was made not to challenge white supremacy, certainly before the war, and to a large extent during the war itself. Nevertheless, the soldiers were drilled and train to European standards, given strong doses of propaganda, and learn leadership and organizational skills that proved essential to the formation of nationalistic and independence movements after 1945. There were minor episodes of discontent, but nothing serious, among the natives. Afrikaner nationalism was a factor in South Africa, But the proto-German Afrikaner prime minister was replaced in 1939 by Jan Smuts, an Afrikaner who was An enthusiastic supporter of the British Empire. His government closely cooperated with London and raised 340,000 volunteers (190,000 were white, or about one-third of the eligible white men).\n\nSerious tension erupted over American support for independence for India, a proposition Churchill vehemently rejected. For years Roosevelt had encouraged Britain's disengagement from India. The American position was based on principled opposition to colonialism. The politically active Indian population was deeply divided. One element was so insistent on the expulsion of the British, that it sided with Germany and Japan, and formed the Indian National Army (INA) from Indian prisoners of war. It fought as part of the Japanese invasion of Burma and eastern India. There was a large pacifist element, which rallied to Gandhi's call for abstention from the war; he said that violence in every form was evil. There was a high level of religious tension between the Hindu majority and the Muslims minority. For the first time the Muslim community became politically active, giving strong support for the British war effort. Over 2 million Indians volunteered for military service, including a large Muslim contingent. The British were sensitive to demands of the Muslim League, led by Muhammad Ali Jinnah, since it needed Muslim soldiers in India and Muslim support all across the Middle East. London used the religious tensions in India as a justification to continue its rule, saying it was needed to prevent religious massacres of the sort that did happen in 1947. The imperialist element in Britain was strongly represented in the Conservative party; Churchill himself had long been its leading spokesman. On the other hand, Attlee and the Labour Party favoured independence and had close ties to the Congress Party. The British cabinet sent Sir Stafford Cripps to India with a specific peace plan offering India the promise of dominion status after the war. Congress demanded independence immediately and the Cripps mission failed. Roosevelt gave support to Congress, sending his representative Louis Johnson to help negotiate some sort of independence. Churchill was outraged, refused to cooperate with Roosevelt on the issue, and threatened to resign as prime minister if Roosevelt pushed too hard. Roosevelt pulled back. In 1942 when the Congress Party launched a Quit India Movement of non-violent civil disobedience, the Raj police immediately arrested tens of thousands of activists (including Gandhi), holding them for the duration. Meanwhile, wartime disruptions caused severe food shortages in eastern India; hundreds of thousands died of starvation. To this day a large Indian element blames Churchill for the Bengal famine of 1943. In terms of the war effort, India became a major base for American supplies sent to China, and Lend Lease operations boosted the local economy. The 2 million Indian soldiers were a major factor in British success in the Middle East. Muslim support for the British war effort proved decisive in the British decision to partition the Raj, forming of the new state of Pakistan.\n\nOn 8 May 1945, the World War II Allies formally accepted the unconditional surrender of the armed forces of Nazi Germany and the end of Adolf Hitler's Third Reich. The formal surrender of the occupying German forces in the Channel Islands was not until 9 May 1945. On 30 April Hitler committed suicide during the Battle of Berlin, and so the surrender of Germany was authorized by his replacement, President of Germany Karl Dönitz. The \"act of military surrender\" was signed on 7 May in Reims, France, and ratified on 8 May in Berlin, Germany.\n\nIn the afternoon of 15 August 1945, the Surrender of Japan occurred, effectively ending World War II. On this day the initial announcement of Japan's surrender was made in Japan, and because of time zone differences it was announced in the United States, Western Europe, the Americas, the Pacific Islands, and Australia/New Zealand on 14 August 1945. The signing of the surrender document occurred on 2 September 1945.\n\nBy the end of the war in August 1945, British Commonwealth forces were responsible for the civil and/or military administration of a number of non-Commonwealth territories, occupied during the war, including Eritrea, Libya, Madagascar, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Italian Somaliland, Syria, Thailand and portions of Germany, Austria and Japan. Most of these military administrations were handed over to old European colonial authorities or to new local authorities soon after the end of the hostilities. Commonwealth forces administered occupation zones in Japan, Germany and Austria until 1955. \nWorld War II confirmed that Britain was no longer the great power it had once been, and that it had been surpassed by the United States on the world stage. Canada, Australia and New Zealand moved within the orbit of the United States. The image of imperial strength in Asia had been shattered by the Japanese attacks, and British prestige there was irreversibly damaged. The price for India's entry to the war had been effectively a guarantee for independence, which came within two years of the end of the war, relieving Britain of its most populous and valuable colony. The deployment of 150,000 Africans overseas from British colonies, and the stationing of white troops in Africa itself led to revised perceptions of the Empire in Africa.\n\nIn terms of actual engagement with the enemy, historians have recounted a great deal in South Asia and Southeast Asia, as summarized by Ashley Jackson:\n\nBritish historians of the Second World War have not emphasized the critical role played by the Empire in terms of money, manpower and imports of food and raw materials.\n\nThe contributions from individual colonies, dominions, mandates and protectorates to the war effort were extensive and global. Further information about their involvement can be found in the military histories of the individual colonies and dominions listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12805248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12805248", "title": "Bunch of Guys", "text": "Bunch of Guys\n\nA Bunch of Guys (BOGs), or Group of Guys (GOGs) are terms used by counter-terrorism officials to refer to small, self-organizing terrorist cells. BOGs typically have little to no contact with global terrorist groups like al Qaeda, so they independently plan and execute their own operations with no outside guidance. BOGs are usually anonymous groups of disaffected amateurs who \"self-radicalize\".\n\nThe term \"Bunch of Guys\" was popularized by Marc Sageman, author of the book \"Leaderless Jihad.\"\n\nIn 2000, Canadian authorities determined that a small group of angry Algerian men were harmless, and called them just a \"bunch of guys.\" One of the group's members, Ahmed Ressam, was later detained with a load of nitroglycerin and timing devices that he planned to use in a terror attack at Los Angeles International Airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "23846680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23846680", "title": "Comprehensive Area Assessment", "text": "Comprehensive Area Assessment\n\nComprehensive Area Assessment, or CAA, is a new way of assessing local public services in England that was introduced by the Government in April 2009. It examines how well councils and other public bodies work together to meet the needs of the people they serve.\n\nEvery year six independent inspectorates will provide a joint assessment of what it is like to live in each area of England, and assess the prospects for sustainable improvement in the future. The inspectorates involved in CAA are the Audit Commission, Ofsted, Care Quality Commission and Her Majesty's Inspectorates of Constabulary, of Prisons, and of Probation.\n\nThe results of these assessments will be available to the public from 10 December 2009 on a new website called Oneplace.\n\nThrough CAA, local public services – including councils, health bodies, police forces, fire and rescue services - will be held collectively to account for their impact on improving quality of life for residents.\n\nCAA focuses on what is preventing improvement, and identifying success and innovation that others can learn. CAA looks at what matters locally, covering issues like increasing affordable housing, reducing the fear of crime, improving education, attracting investment or reducing the area's carbon footprint. The issues assessed in each area will reflect local priorities for improving quality of life and protecting the most vulnerable.\n\nFurther information about CAA can be found here. \n\n"}
{"id": "39578040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39578040", "title": "Corruption in Turkey", "text": "Corruption in Turkey\n\nCorruption in Turkey is an issue affecting the accession of Turkey to the European Union. Transparency International's 2016 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 75th place out of 176 countries, while the 2017 index saw Turkey fall back to 87th place.\n\nThe 1998 Türkbank scandal led to a no-confidence vote and the resignation of Prime Minister Mesut Yılmaz. Although Yılmaz was investigated by Parliament, a five-year statute of limitations prevented further action. On 17 December 2013, the sons of three Turkish ministers and many prominent businesspeople were arrested and accused of corruption.\n\nAnti-Corruption legislation includes Turkey's Criminal Code which criminalizes various forms of corrupt activity, including active and passive bribery, attempted corruption, extortion, bribing a foreign official, money laundering and abuse of office. Nevertheless, anti-corruption laws are poorly enforced, and anti-corruption authorities are deemed ineffective.\n\nCorruption has slowed business activity and the growth of the Turkish economy. Practices indicative of corruption include bribery, embezzlement, theft and fraud.\n\nCorruption affects the institutional structures promoting growth in Turkey:\n\nEconomic development is the increase in standard of living and economic health of a country, reflected in its Human Development Index. For a country to develop economically it must invest in capital goods, such as infrastructure, health care and education. Unlike consumer goods, which promote immediate wealth for a nation, capital goods promote future development and a higher standard of living.\n\nCorruption affects economic development in the following ways:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193773", "title": "Dumbarton Oaks Conference", "text": "Dumbarton Oaks Conference\n\nThe Dumbarton Oaks Conference or, more formally, the Washington Conversations on International Peace and Security Organization was an international conference at which the United Nations was formulated and negotiated among international leaders. The conference was held at Dumbarton Oaks, in Washington, D.C., from August 21, 1944, to October 7, 1944.\n\nThe Dumbarton Oaks Conference constituted the first important step taken to carry out paragraph 4 of the Moscow Declaration of 1943, which recognized the need for a postwar international organization to succeed the League of Nations. At the conference, delegations from Republic of China, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States deliberated over proposals for the establishment of an organization to maintain peace and security in the world. Among the representatives were the British Permanent Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Sir Alexander Cadogan; Soviet Ambassador to the United States, Andrei Gromyko; Chinese Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Wellington Koo; and U.S. Under-Secretary of State Edward Reilly Stettinius, Jr., each of whom chaired his respective delegation. (When Cadogan was called back to London after the first half of the conference, leadership of the delegation was assumed by E. F. L. Wood, 1st Earl of Halifax, the British ambassador in Washington.) The conference itself was chaired by Stettinius, and U.S. Secretary of State Cordell Hull delivered the opening address.\n\nThe conversations were held in two phases, since the Soviets were unwilling to meet directly with the Chinese. In the first phase, representatives of the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States convened between August 21 and September 28. In the second, representatives of Republic of China, the United Kingdom, and the United States held discussions between September 29 and October 7.\n\nRobert Woods Bliss, who with his wife, Mildred Barnes Bliss, had given Dumbarton Oaks to Harvard University in 1940 to establish a scholarly research institute and museum in Byzantine studies, was instrumental in arranging for these meetings. Already in June 1942—on behalf of the director, John S. Thacher, and the Trustees for Harvard University—he had offered to place the facilities of Dumbarton Oaks at the disposal of Secretary Hull. When in June 1944 the State Department found that Dumbarton Oaks could \"comfortably accommodate\" the delegates and that \"the environment [was] ideal\", the offer was renewed by James B. Conant, the president of Harvard University, in a letter of June 30, 1944.\n\nThe stated purposes of the proposed international organization were:\n\nOn October 7, 1944, the delegates agreed on a tentative set of proposals (Proposals for the Establishment of a General International Organization) to meet these goals. The discussions at the conference regarding the make-up of the United Nations included which states would be invited to become members, the formation of the United Nations Security Council, and the right of veto that would be given to permanent members of the Security Council. Charles E. Bohlen writes that the Dumbarton Oaks Conference \"settled all but two issues regarding the organization of the United Nations—the voting procedure in the Security Council and the Soviet pressure for the admission of all sixteen of the Soviet republics to the General Assembly. Apparently, it never occurred to anyone on the American side to counter with a proposal that all 48 of the U.S. states be admitted to the General Assembly. It took the conference at Yalta, plus further negotiations with Moscow, before these issues were solved.\" Also at Yalta, a trusteeship system was proposed to take the place of the League of Nations mandate system. At the United Nations Conference on International Organization, also known as the San Francisco Conference, in April–June 1945, the Security Council veto powers were established and the text of the United Nations Charter was finalized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49207047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49207047", "title": "Ehrhart Neubert", "text": "Ehrhart Neubert\n\nEhrhart Neubert (born 2 August 1940) is a retired German Evangelical minister and theologian.\n\nDuring its final decade he emerged as an opponent of the East German one-party dictatorship, becoming a member of the . Since the collapse of the East German political regime in 1989/90 he has participated prominently on committees and as an author seeking to understand and evaluate it.\n\nNeubert was born into the family of a Protestant minister in 1940 in Herschdorf, a hillside village near Erfurt in central southern Germany. He grew up in nearby . Between 1958 and 1963 he studied Theology at Jena. After 1964 he worked at initially as a vicar and later as the minister in charge for the parish. From 1973 he was combining his parish duties with work as a at nearby Weimar. In 1976, probably on the advice of Robert Havemann, he joined the CDU, in western Germany a political party of the moderate right, but in the politically and by this time physically separated eastern German state, one of the so-called \"block parties\" controlled by the ruling Socialist Unity Party of Germany (\"Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands\"/SED) party through an organisation known as the National Front (\"Nationale Front der Deutschen Demokratischen Republik\"/NF). In 1984 Neubert resigned from the CDU. In 1984 he became community sociology secretary in the Theology Studies department with the Berlin-based .\n\nFrom 1967 Ehrhart Neubert was also taking part in various informal discussion groups, focusing on theology, sociology and the interface between them. He was sympathetic to the civil right demands of Robert Havemann, who was seen by the regime as a high-profile political dissident. By 1979 Neubert was participating actively in Peace Groups of the and, during then 1980s, in other peace circles. He found himself increasingly in conflict both with the state authorities and with the inherently collaborationist leaderships of the official evangelical churches which were keen to retain a level of recognition and toleration from the party leadership. Neubert also produced a number of quasi-political sociological and theological studies: some of his work appeared in West Germany under the pseudonym \"Christian Joachim\".\n\nDuring East Germany's Peaceful Revolution, Neubert was a co-founder of the Democratic Awakening movement, founded in 1989 in his apartment. He contributed to the new party's programme and served as its first vice-chairman. He represented Democratic Awakening at several of the East German Round Table sessions and served on various related investigatory commissions. A (relatively) young fellow activist in Democratic Awakening was Angela Merkel who later became Chancellor of Germany. Finding himself out of sympathy with what he saw at the time a shift towards the political right, in January 1990 Neubert resigned from Democratic Awakening. The crunch issue appears to have been the issue of its developing political alliances, notably with the CDU (party): Merkel stayed. After reunification, which formally took place in the late summer of 1990, in 1992 he became a member of the Brandenburg branch of the Alliance 90 (political party).\n\nIn 1976 the Ministry for State Security (Stasi) had attempted, without success, to recruit Neubert: sixteen years later, as a member of the \"Law and reconciliation\" initiative Neubert stood up for the rights of Stasi victims and for fair and consistent treatment of those involved in the endlessly complex interactions of the Stasi and the Protestant churches in former East Germany. In 1992 the Alliance 90 group in the Brandenburg Landtag (\"regional parliament\") nominated him as a member of the Stolpe inquiry committee. The committee concluded its work in 1994 (although many of the matters it investigated would not be so quickly laid to rest). In 1996 Ehrhart Neubart (re)joined the Christian Democratic Union of Germany (\"Christlich Demokratische Union Deutschlands\"/CDU party). That same year, at the age of 46, he received his doctorate from the Free University of Berlin for a dissertation on the history of political opposition in the German Democratic Republic from 1949 to 1989. In 1998 the work was published, repackaged into a volume of approximately 1000 pages.\n\nIn 1997 Neubert took a post with the Stasi Records Agency (\"Bundesbeauftragten für die Unterlagen des Staatssicherheitsdienstes der ehemaligen Deutschen Demokratischen Republik\"/BStU), taking charge of the agency's research and education department. Together with the agency's commissioner of the time, Joachim Gauck, Neubert compiled the German contribution to the German-language version of The Black Book of Communism, writing the chapter entitled \"Politische Verbrechen in der DDR\" (\"Political Crimes in East Germany\"). Elsewhere he has made numerous further written contributions on resistance and opposition, and the position of religious people and institutions, in former East Germany. In 1998 he was co-opted as a board member of the Federal Foundation for the Reappraisal of the SED Dictatorship (\"Bundesstiftung zur Aufarbeitung der SED-Diktatur\"). By this time he had already become, in 1996, a founding member of the \"Bürgerbüro (Verein)Bürgerbüro - Verein zur Aufarbeitung von Folgeschäden der SED-Diktatur\", a Berlin-based organisation established to provide practical and psychological advice and support for victims of East Germany's Socialist Unity Party version of socialism, subsequently becoming the organisation's president on the death of Bärbel Bohley.\n\nErhart Neubert retired in 2005, but still fills in as a Lutheran minister in the area. He married in 1987: she shares his background as an East German opposition activist with evangelical church connections, also sharing his commitment since 1990 to researching and recording the dictatorship. More recently she served for ten years as a regional commissioner for Stasi documents in Thuringia.\n"}
{"id": "15784727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15784727", "title": "Episcopal Peace Fellowship", "text": "Episcopal Peace Fellowship\n\nThe Episcopal Peace Fellowship (EPF) is an American peace organization composed of members of the Episcopal Church. It was founded on November 11, 1939 as the Episcopal Pacifist Fellowship by Bishop William Appleton Lawrence, Mrs. Henry Hill Pierce, Rev. John Nevin Sayre and Bishop Paul Jones and others with the mission to pray, study and work for peace. In the 1960s it changed its name.\n\nThe EPF has a national office with a small paid staff, and many local chapters (71 as of January 2009). It urges the broader Episcopal Church, other organizations and people in general to adopt a more peaceful stance on issues such as the Iraq War, Iran, promoting peace in the broader Middle East, nuclear weapons and Cuba. It offers Active Nonviolence Training, takes part in peace demonstrations, helps organize action groups and awards peace prizes to individuals around the world who strive for peace.\n\nIt is a sister organization of the Anglican Pacifist Fellowship.\n\n"}
{"id": "1539618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1539618", "title": "Finnish Security Intelligence Service", "text": "Finnish Security Intelligence Service\n\nThe Finnish Security Intelligence Service (Supo) (, , ), formerly the Finnish Security Police, is the security and intelligence agency of Finland in charge of national security, such as counter-intelligence and counter-terrorism, under the jurisdiction of the Interior Ministry. Operational since 1949 and headquartered in Helsinki, Supo had 291 employees and a budget of 27.9 million euros in 2016. The Service had a distinct role during the Cold War in monitoring communists as well as in the balance between Finnish independence and Soviet appeasement (finlandization); after the 1990s Supo has focused more on countering terrorism and in the 2010s on preventing hybrid operations.\n\nThe Finnish Security Intelligence Service (Supo) was established on 17 December 1948 upon ratification of the Act and the Decree on the Security Police and became operational at the start of 1949. Supo was formed to replace its predecessor, the State Police (Valtiollinen poliisi, Valpo), after communists suffered a defeat in the July 1948 parliamentary elections and the reorganization of Valpo was recommended by a governmental committee in October 1948. In essence, Valpo was abolished by Parliament of Finland due to the fact that its leadership positions had been filled by communists and implicated in erroneous and illegal elements according to a separate governmental committee investigation as well as linked to a number of disappearances in the aftermath of World War II.\n\nIn general, Finland is described being in a strategic and neutral position between the Cold War blocks; both sides engaged in intensive intelligence activities in the country. Mostly, Finland was an interest to the superpowers as a buffer zone and as an overflight and military transit route. During the first decades, the main tasks of Supo were to monitor communists, such as the Communist Party of Finland and home Russians, and prevent illegal intelligence, especially KGB and GRU espionage. The Service had to work with discretion and caution due to finlandization—a balance between the independence of Finland and appeasement to the Soviet Union. At the same time, Supo had close connections with the CIA—although the Service was wary of recording it on paper.\n\nWhen Urho Kekkonen was elected the President of Finland in 1956, Supo started to transform more into a \"presidential police\" that gathered information to support the President's domestic and foreign policy decision-making. The shift was partly due to the tense Finnish-Soviet relations at the time (see e.g. the night frost and note crises) as well as Kekkonen's motivation to steer the high-profile Service into alignment with his tactics in handling relations with the Soviet Union. For example, Kekkonen was kept informed of Finnish communist politicians and their internal discussions as well as was relayed information from foreign intelligence agencies, such as the British MI6. After Director Armas Alhava retired in 1972, Kekkonen appointed Arvo Pentti as the new Director—an ally and a fellow politician from the Centre Party. When Seppo Tiitinen was appointed the new Director in 1978, Kekkonen was still requesting information on political communist movements.\n\nKekkonen kept KGB connections, especially its local Helsinki chief, close and utilized back channels to balance between Western and Soviet interests without provocation, such as during the negotiations on Finland's membership to the European Free Trade Association in 1962. Similarly, he shifted Supo's counter-intelligence activities to quiet and preventive action. For example, espionage cases were sometimes not submitted to court and KGB diplomats were not declared persona non grata, but instead were quietly asked to leave. When KGB major Anatoliy Golitsyn defected to the United States from Helsinki in December 1961, he divulged his knowledge and opinions on KGB networks and interaction in Finland to the CIA. For example, he described President Kekkonen as being \"in Soviet service\" – Kekkonen was relieved when the CIA and Western intelligence took the claim with reservations. Nevertheless, the revelations prompted Western intelligence to have a more constructive and positive attitude towards Finland and the CIA shared Golitsyn's list of KGB intelligence officers to Supo for monitoring.\n\nSystematic surveillance of communists was shut down in the early 1980s by President Mauno Koivisto. The Service did not gain powers of arrest and pre-trial investigation powers until 1 January 1989 due to its predecessors’ colourful actions and history as well as Finland’s sensitive foreign policy position. Instead, the National Bureau of Investigation carried out actual criminal investigations until that point. In 1990, West German intelligence gave Supo the Tiitinen list, which supposedly contains names of Finns who were believed to have links to Stasi, the East German state security ministry. The list was classified and locked in a safe after Director Seppo Tiitinen and President Mauno Koivisto determined that it was based on vague hints instead of hard evidence. Subsequently, in 2002 the Service suspected and questioned Finnish diplomat, Alpo Rusi, of being a Stasi spy. The investigation eventually leaked to national broadcaster Yle. However, Rusi was cleared of all charges in 2007 after court proceedings and won compensation for damage to his reputation suffered when the case was leaked to the media.\n\nOn 1 January 2016, Supo was transferred under the direct control of the Interior Ministry from the National Police Board. Reportedly, the administrative transfer was to ensure that the Service is able to more efficiently conduct its special missions as well as to reinforce its strategic and political direction and clarify its official position both domestically and internationally. Newspapers reported in November 2016 that Supo was concerned about suspicious land and property transactions made by foreign nationals that could be utilized in hybrid operations, such as to accommodate unmarked military troops. A new bill was in process in October 2017 to allow for security authorities to monitor purchases by entities from outside the European Union (EU) buying property near military installations or broadcast towers in Finland as well as for the State to reclaim or buy strategically important property. The Service was involved in investigating the Turku stabbing of August 2017, which is considered Finland's first suspected terrorist attack since the end of World War II.\n\nThe Finnish Security Intelligence Service states that its core functions are counter-intelligence, counter-terrorism and other national security-related work, such as counter-proliferation activities intended to impede the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It is tasked to prevent events that may cause danger to government systems, parliamentary democracy, or internal and external security of the State. Additionally, the Service is the responsible authority for national and international cooperation in the fight against terrorism, for preparing and maintaining terrorist threat assessments, for monitoring extremist phenomena, and for performing security clearances for personnel recruited into sensitive positions. Supo reports to other security authorities and the Government of Finland on its activities. According to the Police Act, Supo can utilize, among others, traffic data monitoring, covert intelligence gathering, undercover activities, pseudo purchases, and controlled delivery to fulfill its missions.\n\nSupo is a national police unit subordinate to the Ministry of the Interior. It follows a Nordic tradition where the intelligence agency is governed as a part of police organisations (i.e. in the form of a security police) instead of being a separate organisation. The Service formerly used the English title Finnish Security Police; the word \"police\" was amended in 2010 to emphasize the agency's role in security intelligence. In 2016, the Service had 291 employees, of whom 56% were police officers and 40% women, and a total budget of 27.9 million euros. In addition to its headquarters in Punavuori, Helsinki, Supo hosts eight regional offices around Finland in Turku, Tampere, Vaasa, Lappeenranta, Joensuu, Kuopio, Oulu and Rovaniemi. Supo has liaison officers posted at diplomatic missions in Nairobi, Kenya and Ankara, Turkey as well as at the European Union (EU) Intelligence and Situation Centre. The Service is divided into seven different departments as of a 2017 reorganization:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34582708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34582708", "title": "Five Nations Passport Group", "text": "Five Nations Passport Group\n\nThe Five Nations Passport Group is an international forum between the passport issuing authorities in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States to \"share best practices and discuss innovations related to the development of passport policies, products and practices\", thereby ensuring that the five countries work collectively towards achieving a secure travel document, safe international travel and protecting national borders.\n\nThe annual Five Nations Passport Conference is a largely informal in-person meeting between officials of the participating agencies, with some additional invited guests such as the Irish Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade in 2011. It has taken place at least as far back as 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10396151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10396151", "title": "God's Politics", "text": "God's Politics\n\nGod's Politics: Why the Right Gets It Wrong and the Left Doesn't Get It is a 2005 book by author Jim Wallis. The book focuses on the role of religious hypocrisy in politics, and critiques both the so-called \"religious right\" and the \"secular left\" while noting that the vast majority on the \"left\" have families who embrace both family values and religion. His criticism includes quotations from the Bible, as he accuses U.S. President George W. Bush and many at Fox News such as Bill O'Reilly and Sean Hannity of practicing bad theology, noting that Jesus was strictly nonviolent particularly when it comes to invading other countries such as Iraq where over 600,000 civilians are estimated to have been killed due to the U.S. invasion, while Jesus said more about social justice while he never said anything against homosexuality. He defends religion in general, and challenges organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union for overreacting to public displays of religion, although the Founding Fathers of the U.S. clearly intended separation of church and State.\n\n"}
{"id": "44013914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44013914", "title": "Guardia di Finanza", "text": "Guardia di Finanza\n\nThe Guardia di Finanza (GdF) (; ) is an Italian law enforcement agency under the authority of the Minister of Economy and Finance. It is a militarized police force, forming a part of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, not the Ministry of Defence. Guardia di Finanza is essentially responsible for dealing with financial crime and smuggling; it has also evolved into Italy's primary agency for suppressing the illegal drug trade. It maintains over 600 boats and ships and more than 100 aircraft to serve in its mission of patrolling Italy's territorial waters.\n\nThe mission and institutional tasks of Guardia di Finanza are stated in the law 189 of April 23, 1959 and 68/2001 and are subdivided into priority ones (preventing, investigating and reporting financial evasions and violations, overseeing the compliance with the provisions of politico-economic interest and surveillance at sea for financial police purposes) and contribution ones (maintaining public order and safety and political-military defense of the borders).\n\nThe primary goal of the Guardia di Finanza is to protect the legal economy and the businesses operating in compliance with the law, while ensuring that the Republic, the European Union, the regions, and the local governments can rely on a regular inflow and appropriate use of the resources meant for the community, and for supporting policies for economic and social revival and development.\n\nIts activities are connected with financial, economic, judiciary and public safety: tax evasion, financial crimes, smuggling, money laundering, international illegal drug trafficking, illegal immigration, customs and borders checks, copyright violations, anti-Mafia operations, credit card fraud, cybercrime, counterfeiting, terrorist financing, maintaining public order, and safety, political and military defense of the Italian borders.\n\nThe origins of the Guardia di Finanza date back to October 5, 1774, when the \"Light Troops Legion\" (\"Legione truppe leggere\") was set up under the King of Sardinia, Victor Amadeus III. This was the first example in Italy of a special corps established and organized for financial surveillance duties along the borders, as well as for military defense.\n\nOnce the unification of Italy was completed in 1862, the \"Customs Guards Corps\" (\"Corpo delle Guardie doganali\") was set up. Its main task was Customs surveillance and co-participation in the Country's defense during wartime.\n\nBy Law no. 141 dated April 8, 1881, the Customs Guards Corps became the \"Corps of the Royal Finance Guard\" (\"Corpo della Regia Guardia di Finanza\") whose task was to \"impede, suppress and report smuggling activities and any other violation and transgression of financial laws and regulations\", and to safeguard the interests of the tax administration, as well as to co-participate in enforcing law and order and public security.\n\nBy Royal Decree dated July 14, 1907, the Corps was issued 5-point star uniforms to mark its military status, even though the Army's military discipline regulation was extended to the Financial Guard by Law dated July 12, 1908. The Corps served in the two World Wars and in the War of National Liberation, deserving 18 awards to its War Flag, which had been granted in 1914 to decree the total integration among the Italian Armed Forces.\n\nSubsequently, the Corps took part in numerous rescue operations during serious natural disasters; for this commitment the Corps was decorated with 13 additional civil valor awards.\n\nThe re-organization of the police forces in 1919 also affected the Royal \"Guardia di Finanza\". The responsibilities were divided between the Inspector General, who was an Army Officer with the rank of Lieutenant General responsible for military preparation, and the Commanding General, who was a Financial Guard Officer subordinate to the former, but authorized to maintain direct relations with the Minister for ordinary institutional duties and for personnel management. In 1923, the \"Investigative Tax Police\" was set up as a specialized branch of the Royal Financial Guard. Within a few years, its naval fleet, motor-vehicles and telecommunication structure underwent a complete change; the Statistical Service equipped with a data processing centre, the Air Service and the Canine Service (for anti-drugs checks) were set up. During the same years, the Corps’ general organization was defined pursuant to Law no. 189 dated April 23, 1959, which laid down its institutional tasks, subsequently amended by specific sector provisions assigning certain responsibilities.\n\nBesides the review of its organizational structure, laid out by the issuance of Presidential Decree Law no. 34 dated January 29, 1999, the updating of the Corps’ institutional tasks was completed. Law Decree no. 68, dated March 19, 2001, whilst confirming the Corps’ configuration as a military structure, enhanced its role as a police force having general competence on all economic, financial and judicial matters for the safeguard of the public budget and that of the regions, of the local authorities and of the European Union.\n\nThe Guardia di Finanza Historical Museum is custodian of the traditions of the Corps. It preserves artifacts of relevance to the Guardia di Finanza and promotes historical research, to aid researchers, scholars and military history enthusiasts.\nFrom the statistic data of the anti-drug service central Direction, of the Department of the Interior,the 60% of the drug seized in Italy by all the strengths of law enforcement is found by the Guardia di Finanza.\nIn 2005, the Financial Guard was responsible for 77% of the Heroin seizures, 69% of Cocaine seizures and 54% of cannabis (including Hashish) seizures.\n\nOn June 3, 2009 near Chiasso, Switzerland (near the Swiss/Italian border), officers of the Corps detained two Japanese nationals in their 50s who had attempted to enter Switzerland and had in their possession a suitcase with a false bottom containing U.S. Treasury Bonds worth $134.5 billion.\nThese later turned out to be counterfeit.\n\nGuardia di Finanza is a militarized police force, \"corpo di polizia ad ordinamento militare\", just as the Carabinieri, but forming a part of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, not the Ministry of Defence. Under the minister of finance and economy, the corps is commanded by a general commander and a second-in-command.\n\nUnder the general command are the following commands:\nSource:\n\nSource:\nSource:\n\n\nThe \"Guardia di Finanza\" utilises a rank structure similar to that of other state police forces in Italy, but with ranks similar to the Italian Army. The Guardia di Finanza has around 68,000 members (revenue officers, superintendents, inspectors, and officers). Its personnel are in service in the Europol and OLAF (European Agency of Fight against Fraud). Its Latin motto since 1933 has been \"Nec recisa recedit\" (, ).\n\nThere are 3,250 officers in the Guardia di Finanza. Officer cadets for the general and aeronaval branches are recruited through competitive examinations open to Italian citizens, not over 22 years of age, with a high school diploma giving access to university studies. Officer cadets for the technical and logistic branches need a bachelor or master's degree, and to be under the age of 32. Officer cadets for the general and aeronaval branches are trained during three years undergraduate studies at the \"Accademia della Guardia di Finanza\" at the campus in Bergamo, followed by two years graduate studies at the campus in Rome. The successful cadets graduate as First Lieutenats with a Master's degree in Economic and Financial Security Sciences. \n\nThere are 24,000 inspectors in the Guardia di Finanza. Participation in the competition for the recruitment of inspectors in the general and naval branches is open to Italian citizens aged between 18 and 26 years, having a diploma of secondary school giving access to university studies. Inspector cadets attend the \"Scuola ispettori e sovrintendenti della Guardia di Finanza\" in L'Aquila for three years, at the same time studying at the local university, finally graduating with a bachelor's degree in business law and appointment as warrant officers. Inspectors in the naval branch continues with a year at the nautical school in Gaeta.\nThere are 13,500 superintendents in the Guardia di Finanza. Superintendents are recruited through promotion from the ranks of the appointees. They are trained at a three-months course at the \"Scuola ispettori e sovrintendenti della Guardia di Finanza\" in L'Aquila.\nThere are 28,000 appointees and revenue officers in the Guardia di Finanza. Competition for appointments as revenue officer trainee is open for Italian citizens with one year's enlistment in the Italian defence forces. Recruits are given basic training at either the Recruit School in Bari or the Alpine School in Predazzo.\n\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nThe unit awards, as depicted on the unit coat-of-arms, are:\n\nAwards not included in the coat of arms but are included in its State Color are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1204548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1204548", "title": "Hartz concept", "text": "Hartz concept\n\nThe Hartz concept, also known as Hartz reforms or the Hartz plan, is a set of recommendations submitted by a committee on reforms to the German labour market in 2002. Named after the head of the committee, Peter Hartz, these recommendations went on to become part of the German government's \"Agenda 2010\" series of reforms, known as Hartz I – Hartz IV. The committee devised thirteen \"innovation modules\", which recommended changes to the German labour market system. These were then gradually put into practice: The measures of Hartz I – III were undertaken between January 1, 2003, and 2004, while Hartz IV was implemented on January 1, 2005.\n\nThe \"Hartz Committee\" was founded on February 22, 2002, by the federal government of Germany led then by Gerhard Schröder. Its official name was \"Kommission für moderne Dienstleistungen am Arbeitsmarkt\" (Committee for Modern Services in the Labour Market). The 15-member committee was chaired by Peter Hartz, then Volkswagen's personnel director.\n\nHartz I and II both came into effect on January 1, 2003, aiming at making new types of jobs easier to create, and covered, for example:\n\nHartz I\n\nHartz II\n\nHartz III\n\nThe fourth stage of the reform was voted in by the \"Bundestag\" on December 16, 2003 and by the \"Bundesrat\" on July 9, 2004, to take effect by January 1, 2005.\n\nThis part of the reforms brought together the former unemployment benefits for long-term unemployed ('Arbeitslosenhilfe') and the welfare benefits ('Sozialhilfe'), leaving them both at approximately the lower level of the former \"Sozialhilfe\" (social assistance). The level for a single person was €374 per month (known as the \"Regelsatz\"). This was subsequently raised to €391 per month, in 2013. Added to this is the financial assistance with housing and health care. Couples can receive benefits for each partner plus their children.\n\nPrior to 2005, between 12 and 36 months (depending upon the claimant's age and work history) of their full unemployment benefit (60 to 67% of the previous net salary) were followed by the \"Arbeitslosenhilfe\" (unemployment assistance), amounting to 53 to 57% of the last net salary. Since 2008, eligibility for the full unemployment benefit (renamed \"Arbeitslosengeld\" in 2005 and commonly referred to as \"Arbeitslosengeld I\" in everyday German to contrast it with the lower benefits discussed below) has been restricted to 12 months in general, 15 months for those aged 50 or older, 18 months for those 55 or older and 24 months for those 58 or older.\n\nThis is now followed by the (usually much lower) \"Arbeitslosengeld II\" (Hartz IV) benefits if the claimant meets eligibility requirements.\n\nWhether or not a claimant is eligible for \"Arbeitslosengeld II\" depends on his or her savings, life insurance and the income of spouse or partner. If these assets are below a threshold level, a claimant can get money from the state. The threshold level in July 2008 was €150 for free assets (at least €3,100) and €250 for fixed retirement assets, both calculated per capita and lifetime year. Additionally, every employable individual in a communal household (persons living in and depending on the resources of the claimant), can have one car worth about €7,500 and a self-used house of 130 square meters living space (more if there are other people in the common household).\n\nTo receive payments, a claimant must agree to a contract subject to public law. This contract outlines what they are obliged to do to improve their job situation, and when the state is obliged to help. An unemployed person may be required to accept any kind of legal job. This compulsion is restricted by constitutional rights, like freedom of movement, freedom of family, marriage and human dignity. If taking on a specific placement is deemed reasonable by the responsible agency, not applying will result in a reduction or even complete suspension of the appropriate payment.\n\nWithin the \"Arbeitslosengeld II\" schemes, the state covers the health insurance of the unemployed. Until the end of 2010, payments towards the pension scheme of the claimant were also made.\n\nIt is possible to earn income from a job and receive \"Arbeitslosengeld II\" benefits at the same time. Job income is debited from \"Arbeitslosengeld II\" payments according to a formula that leaves a certain amount of the additional revenue untouched. These revenues are: a certain amount of savings (which increases with age); €100 plus 20 percent of the wage up to €800 plus 10% of the wage up to €1200 (up to €1500 if there are children). Through this mechanism \"Arbeitslosengeld II\" can be regarded as a sort of minimum wage floor for employees without assets, where the minimum wage is not fully paid by the employer but assured by the state. There are criticisms that this defies competition and leads to a downward spiral in wages and the loss of full-time jobs.\nThe Hartz IV reform merged the federal level unemployment agency with the local level welfare administration. This facilitated a better, case-oriented approach to helping unemployed people find work and improve their situations. The plan's objective is to reduce caseloads from 400 unemployed persons per agent to not more than 75 (aged 25 or less), or not more than 150 persons over the age of 25. For difficult cases, dedicated case managers may be deployed. Legally, however, the agencies remain separate.\n\nThe Hartz IV reforms continue to attract criticism in Germany, despite a considerable reduction in short- and long-term unemployment. This reduction has led to some claims of success for the Hartz reforms. Others say the actual unemployment figures are not comparable because many people work part-time or are not included in the statistics for other reasons, such as the number of children that live in Hartz IV households, which has risen to record numbers.\n\nAbout 7 million people get Hartz IV benefits, of which 2.2 million are unemployed. The budget is estimated to be 20 bn euro.\n\nThe Hartz IV reforms formed one of the main foundations of Germany’s subsequent economic boom.\n\nIn April 2018 more than half, at 55%, of the recipients had a migration background. According to the Federal Employment Agency (German: \"Bundesagentur für Arbeit\") this was due to the migrants lacking either employable skills or knowledge of the language.\n\nAlthough the official term for long-term unemployment benefits is still \"Arbeitslosengeld II\", most Germans, even news programmes and politicians in parliament, refer to it as \"Hartz IV\". The term was voted German Word of the Year 2004 by the Society for the German Language. Earlier, in 2002, the term \"Ich-AG\" (another Hartz measure, see above) had been chosen as the German Un-Word of the Year by a jury of linguistic scholars.\n\nMeanwhile, \"Hartz IV\" has become a synonym for the class of non-working poor and is used as a prefix in multiple contexts (i.e. low-brow daytime television programmes are called \"Hartz IV TV\" by critics).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58643905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58643905", "title": "Homelessness in Indonesia", "text": "Homelessness in Indonesia\n\nHomelessness in Indonesia is a significant issue, estimated to impact up to 3 million people in the country, over 28,000 in Jakarta alone.\n\nHomelessness in Indonesia is termed \"tunawisma\" and while by the 2000s the issue was recognised by government authorities, there is no generally accepted definition and no reliable data are available but according to the 2000 census, 1.6% of the country's population, about 3.2 million people do not have a permanent place to stay.\n\nSquatters and street homeless people are often targeted by police raids who cite the reason being the homeless people \"disturb the attractiveness of the city\".\n\nAnother term for homelessness in Indonesia is \"gelandangan\", meaning \"tramp\". The word is derived from \"gelandang\" meaning \"to wander\".\n\nOne cause of homelessness in Indonesia is forced evictions. According to researchers, between the years 2000 and 2005 over 92,000 people were forcefully evicted from their homes.\n\n"}
{"id": "39308562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39308562", "title": "Infectious diseases within American prisons", "text": "Infectious diseases within American prisons\n\nInfectious diseases within American correctional settings are a concern within the public health sector. The corrections population is susceptible to infectious diseases through exposure to blood and other bodily fluids, drug injection, poor health care, prison overcrowding, demographics, security issues, lack of community support for rehabilitation programs, and high-risk behaviors. The spread of infectious diseases, such as HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, hepatitis C (HCV), hepatitis B (HBV), and tuberculosis result largely from needle-sharing, drug use, and consensual and nonconsensual sex among prisoners. HIV/AIDS and hepatitis C need specific attention because of the specific public health concerns and issues they raise.\n\nThe implementation of HIV and STD screening programs in the correctional setting is an important approach to reducing the annual number of new HIV infections in the United States. The correctional system in America is a patchwork of a wide variety of settings such as state and federal prisons, local jails, juvenile detention centers and they include the legal constraints of state laws. One process for HIV testing would be unlikely or even impossible in all correctional settings.\n\nThere is an inherent difference in the jail versus the prison setting that merits infectious disease testing at the jail level. Jails are largely used to hold offenders who have been charged but not convicted of a crime. Local jails admitted an estimated 11.7 million persons during the 12-month period ending June 30, 2013. The average weekly turnover rate was 60.2 percent. Implementing HIV, HCV and other STD screening programs at the jail level is an effective way to detect disease before an infected individual is released back to the community and is able to transmit disease.\n\nAt least 17% of people living with HIV/AIDS have been incarcerated at some point in their life. The rate of contracting HIV is ten to one hundred times higher inside the prison system than outside. The incarcerated population is more likely to contract the disease because they are exposed to more high-risk behaviors within the correctional system. In a Louisiana prison study, 242 inmates (72.8% of male inmates) had participated in sexual encounters with other men, and did not always have access to proper protection. Additionally, research has demonstrated that infection rates via injection are much higher among those who have previously served prison terms. Research suggests that elevated rates of infection are a result of increased prison sentencing for drug-related offences and the War on Drugs. Since prisons generally divide the individuals by gender, the populations experience different environments; incarcerated females in the United States tend to have higher rates of infection.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Statistics, at the end of 2010 among all of the U.S. inmates with HIV/AIDS 18,337 of them were male and 1,756 were female. Research suggests young men of color disproportionately represent U.S. inmates and these individuals may be at such a risk of contracting HIV due to high-risk behavior prior to entering the penitentiary system. Furthermore, research also shows that AIDS is the single largest cause of death among African American men between ages 25 through 44 years, mainly due to drug-related transmission of the virus. As of September 2013, condoms for prisoners are only available in the US state of Vermont (on September 17, 2013, the California Senate approved a bill for condom distribution inside the state's prisons, but the bill was not yet law at the time of approval).\n\nA 2004 survey of inmates at state prisons and local jails revealed a self-reported HIV positive rate of 1.9% and 2.5% respectively. Sixty-nine percent of state inmates reported being tested since admission to the system while only 18.5% of those in the jail reported being tested. This suggests that expanded jail testing could increase the number of previously unidentified cases of HIV. In prisons, where inmates are incarcerated for more than a year, testing should take place at the medical evaluation. In jails, where a majority of inmates bail out between 72 hours and seven days, routine testing should ideally take place at the intake evaluation. This may not be possible if the inmate is under the influence of drugs or alcohol or is otherwise mentally unstable. While medical evaluations typically occur within 10 days of detention, some inmates may have been released and thus, won't get tested.\n\nWhile the majority of HCV infections occur outside of prison, the disease is still widespread within the prison system as a result of drug injection. According to one Rhode Island prison study, HCV infection was found in 23.1% of the male prison population. HCV prevention proved to be more challenging than HIV prevention because inmates partake in high-risk behaviors such as \"front loading\" and sharing spoons to prepare drugs like cocaine. The prevalence of these diseases within prisons is a concern because they pose a potential public health risk. When prisoners are released, they may continue the same behaviors, thereby increasing the chances of the disease spreading to outside communities. The \"Western Journal of Medicine\" estimates the prevalence and predictors of HCV infection among inmates of California by conducting a system wide survey. Findings concluded that HCV infection appears most common in men and women entering prison, displaying prevalence of anti-HCV positive highest among white males and Latina women.\n\nLimited testing for hepatitis C virus (HCV) in three North Carolina jails have shown a prevalence rate of approximately 7% for HCV. The primary barrier is the cost of additional tests needed beyond a screening test. However, some hematologists believe a screening test should be done regardless of ability to pay for follow-up care as a means of changing behavior (for example, refraining from alcohol or not sharing needles). Studies have shown that knowledge of disease status can change behavior with HIV infection. It is estimated that 80% of people with HIV who inject drugs also have hepatitis C virus. HIV coinfection more than triples the risk for liver disease, liver failure, and liver-related death from HCV.\n\nIn 2002, the \"Public Health Reports\" released a study entitled \"Comparing Quality of Care for Sexually Transmitted Diseases in Specialized and General Clinics\", explaining the quality of care provided in public STD clinics and general medical clinics when treating patients with STDs. In October 1995, the County of Los Angeles Department of Health Services faced a budget deficit that led to the decision of restructuring their outpatient care system. The result of this restructuring led to the following: 17 LA County STD clinics and 3 of general medical clinics were also closed down. This then resulted in the shift of \"balance of STD services in favor of general medical clinics.\" Reduced funding greatly therefore affecting the quality of patient care. Six clinics were studied from March 1, 1996 to June 30, 1996 with the data of patients recorded during each visit. Thirty-two process of care quality indicators were determined that listed patient expectations during visitation. Data showed that the public STD clinics demonstrated a greater adherence than general medical clinics for every 14 out of the 32 patient care quality indicators. As a result, both the general medical clinics and STD clinics suffered from the budget deficit of 1995.\n\nSeparate studies assessed the practicality and cost-efficiency of vaccinating all adults treated at STD clinics in a span of a year. Two scenarios were compared, assuming a national program offering the Hepatitis B vaccine to two million clients in order to create a decision model. The first scenario lacked the Hepatitis B vaccination while the second followed a Hepatitis B vaccination. The stages of the HBV virus were followed in a Markov Model of Natural History. These are the stages that clients can potentially experience if they opted out of vaccination. Those that chose to be part of a routine vaccination would undergo a three-part vaccination stage within a year. The total medical cost for those who contracted the HBV virus is as follows: $1,587 million for societal costs; $346 million in medical costs; and $1,241 million in productivity losses. The projected cost for a national vaccination program that is to serve more than a million clients is \"$138 million including $95 million for vaccine and administration, $30.5 million for staff training and supervision, and $12.2 million for protocol development and vaccination record-keeping.\n\nIn North Carolina, the state Department of Health and Human Services Division of Epidemiology works with the AIDS Drug Assistance Program to help pay for HIV medication for incarcerated persons in county jails (state and federal prisons are not eligible). In order to qualify, county detention centers must complete an application for funds that includes the jail health budget to show need. Additionally, Duke University and UNC-Memorial Hospitals have collaborated with one jail's HCV positive inmates for further follow-up testing and care.\n\nThe World Health Organization released guidelines to counteract the spread of HIV in prisons during the 1980s. They stated prisons should apply policies that reduce sexual violence, enhance detection, prosecute offenders, and increase evaluation of activities done to prevent disease from spreading in prisons. Within the United States there have been many important policies and programs to eliminate the spread of disease and expand the healthcare system within prisons.\n\nThere are two renowned federal cases that established prisoners' rights to healthcare and paved the way for disease prevention. In Estelle v. Gamble, the court case ruled that healthcare within prisons are a constitutional right. Prior to this court case, prison systems deliberately denied prisoners much treatment, delaying access to physicians, or failing to help prisoners seek any medical judgment. This court case created measures to reduce the spread of diseases and also provided inmates with medical attention. In Wayne County Jail Inmates v. Lucas, courts mandated that prisoners have the right to access drug detoxification and treatment for drug dependency. This has helped many inmates quarantine the disease by preventing the sharing of needles.\n\nMajor programs and policies are being initiated within each state. In New York, the Hepatitis C Continuity Program was the first of its kind to remove limits on healthcare access if a prisoner spent a limited time in jail. Prisoners now have access to HCV antiviral treatment from the moment of incarceration to even post-incarceration treatment. It was first issued measure in New York involving a coalition between different sectors to provide aid for prisoners even after release. Other guidelines included collaborating with the local healthcare systems that prisoners may potentially be released to after serving their terms. Serious public health outbreaks like the spread of Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus have prompted drastic measures leading to medical isolation. Proponents of this guideline seek to establish this measure throughout all U.S. Prisons. However, ethical issues have arisen as opponents question the segregation and labeling of individuals based on their health condition.\n\nApproaches to preventing the spread of diseases such as HIV and HCV in prisons include not only internal changes within correctional facilities, but also increased external community support. Between 2.7 million and 3.9 million Americans live with a chronic Hepatitis C, but less than 20% receive treatment for the condition. Many medically underserved patients, who are appropriate candidates for antiviral treatment, do not receive treatment for a variety of reasons, including limited or no insurance coverage and the high cost of antiviral therapy. Such access barriers are compounded by the fact that HCV is particularly prevalent in populations struggling with substance abuse problems, poverty, homelessness, mental illness, low literacy, and language issues, thereby subjecting them to mass incarceration. A study conducted at a Florida State prison concluded that the continual persistence of HIV infections and deaths related to such infections are due to unequal distribution of health care resources to inmates. Such statistics coupled with an increasing rate of incarceration only amplify the issue of HIV/HCV prevention in prisons, with the number of inmates increasing but healthcare policies remaining stagnant.\n\nWhile the World Health Organization has endorsed certain preventive practices, only Vermont and Mississippi State Prisons and Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, Philadelphia, and Washington County Jails have provided condoms to inmates. Others have argued against providing condoms because officials feel it condones sexual activity, which is illegal within the prison system.\n\nImprisonment as a response to US drug use has created a \"de facto\" policy of jailing more HIV-infected individuals. High-risk behavior that persists within prisons poses harm to inmates and the greater community alike, but US courts have chosen to remain silent. Separating infected individuals from the rest of the prison population has been seen as ineffective because not all infected individuals have been properly tested. That, therefore, promotes high-risk actions because there is a perceived lack of infected population.\n\nUniversal screening methods have proven very effective in certain circumstances. For example, screening among blood donors has all but eliminated transmission of HIV through blood transfusions. Another example is the reduction of perinatal transmission with the introduction of routine screening for pregnant women. The benefits of introducing a routine screening program include:\n\n\nIn 1996, the CDC revised its recommendations to incorporate diagnostic HIV testing and opt-out HIV screening as a part of routine clinical care in all health-care settings while also preserving the patient's option to decline HIV testing. The recommendations are intended for all health-care settings including hospital emergency departments, urgent-care clinics, inpatient services, STD clinics or other venues offering clinical STD services, tuberculosis clinics, substance abuse treatment clinics, other public health clinics, community clinics, correctional health-care facilities, and primary care settings. (The guidelines address HIV testing in health-care settings only; they do not change existing guidelines concerning targeted testing of persons at high risk for HIV who seek HIV testing in nonclinical settings such as community-based organizations, outreach settings, or mobile vans.)\n\nThe new CDC guidelines state \"in all health-care settings, screening for HIV infection should be performed routinely for all patients aged 13-64 years. Health-care providers should initiate screening unless prevalence of undiagnosed HIV infection in their patients has been documented to be <0.1%. In the absence of existing data for HIV prevalence, health-care providers should initiate voluntary HIV screening until they establish that the diagnostic yield is <1 per 1,000 patients screened, at which point such screening is no longer warranted.\"\n\nAdditional recommendations for juveniles that are incarcerated in adult jails include the following:\n\n\nProcedures for offering support to the inmate who receives a diagnosis of HIV should be in place to assure they can manage the infection. Privacy in a correctional setting is difficult, but the inmate should be assured that his medical information is confidential. The following are CDC recommended procedures for inmate support:\n\n\nLinking inmates to HIV care services when they are quickly released back to the community from a local jail can be difficult. Often they can be more concerned with finding a place to live or finding money to pay their legal fees. But upon giving an inmate a diagnosis of HIV, steps should be taken immediately to ensure that an appointment has been made with a provider, that contact information for a health department or community-based organization case manager is available to help them navigate the healthcare system. Several studies indicate that follow-up care for HIV positive women may correlate with a reduction in recidivism. Correctional facilities should have the following CDC recommended procedures and resources in place for inmates being discharged from custody:\n\n\nThe high rate of turnover in local jails as opposed to prisons may make it difficult to implement a routine testing program at intake or on a scheduled basis. In cases where testing all incoming inmates is not possible, there are alternative approaches that can be used individually or in combination with other approaches. One alternative approach could include risk-based criteria screening. The CDC recommends that jails routinely offer HIV testing to inmates who fall under one or more of the following criteria: \n\nThe limitation with this screening approach is that risks are self-reported by the inmate. One study suggested that up to 42% of inmates diagnosed with HIV reported no risk factors.\n\nA second alternative approach is clinical screening based on HCV, HBV or STD infection. The presence of any of these diseases increases the likelihood of acquiring or transmitting HIV disease. Clinical criteria for screening include:\n\n\nA third alternative approach for screening in the jail setting is based on demographics such as zip code of residence, age, gender and race or ethnicity. When using this approach, providers in correctional settings should with their state or local health department to determine the demographics of HIV for their population. Criteria examples for demographic screening could include:\n\n\nThere is also some evidence that screening based on type of arrest could indicate higher rates of HIV infection. For example, a study by the Department of Justice found that HIV infection is more often associated with property and drug-related crimes.\n\nBecause there is a high-volume turnover rate of inmates in the jail system, some inmates who are tested for HIV, HCV or other STDs may have been released before receiving their results. Correctional facilities should assure that all cases of newly diagnosed infectious diseases are reported to the state or local health department for assistance with notification of results, counseling, partner services and linkage to care. The CDC advocates a syndemic approach to intervene in the transmission of HIV, HCV and other STDs. This approach includes \"combining services to minimize missed opportunities\" to detect disease. This approach calls for a collaborative effort between agencies to address high incarceration rates and other social justice issues such as poverty.\n\nPossible HCV prevention techniques have included vaccinations, methadone treatments for drug addicts, access to sterile syringes and needles, use of proper cleaning materials for syringes and needles, lowering the prison population, improving healthcare within prisons, increased availability of condoms, psychological therapy or counseling, or educational classes on drug use and sexual behavior for both inmates and prison staff. Some prisons already provide prevention techniques such as bleach tablets for cleaning, drug counselling, detoxification, and drug behavior management, but these techniques are not fully effective.\n\nWhile vaccination programs are accepted, they are not widely implemented. Substance abuse programs are also rare, though HIV and HCV testing are widely available. Because of the ineffectiveness of some preventive techniques, advocates push for alternative forms of rehabilitation for drug offenders to keep these potentially infected people outside of the prison system. These techniques do not only apply to HIV and HCV prevention, but also address the various other diseases present within correctional facilities. Since prevention of any infectious diseases presents a major unsolved problem, public healthcare professionals advocate for a more inclusive and all-encompassing approach.\n\nDue to the high rate of HIV that exists within prisons and the carceral system, these sites are crucial in educating individuals for further infection. The National Commission on Correctional Health Care conducted a study evaluating current modes of handling HIV through prevention programs across the US. In particular, one of the researchers explored peer education in the forms of curriculum modeled after the American Red Cross and California's \"Reach One, Teach One\" program. By discussing methods in which infected individuals can be educated, the spread of infectious diseases can be reduced by an appreciable margin.\n\nAlthough there is near consensus in the literature about what needs to be done to reduce the incidence of sexual violence in prisons, to date, little if any research has been undertaken to assess which strategies are most effective. In addition to evaluating the various components of policies and programs to address sexual violence, prison systems have not allowed external, independent researchers to carry out, at regular intervals, a comprehensive review and analysis of the incidence of rape and other forms of sexual violence in their prisons. Additionally, victims of sexual assault in prison do not have access to post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP), which could reduce the risk for HIV transmission after exposure to HIV.\n\nTreatment after being released from prison can be difficult because individuals must locate facilities that can provide them treatment while considering their social status, limited knowledge, and access to these resources. Hepatitis C has been one of the most widespread blood-borne infection to date within the United States of America. From 2005 to 2006, the state of New York began implementing the Hepatitis C Continuity Program, offering free HCV treatment for inmates even after release from its state prisons. The program encompassed 70 prisons and 21 health-care facilities. This program was put together by the collaborative efforts of New York State Department of Correctional Services, New York State Department of Health, New York State Division of Parole, New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, and other community-based health care providers. Together, these organizations addressed the immediate need for medication upon release from prison. Inmates were given proper medication provided they possess Medicaid or any other kind of health insurance and eligibility. This program also included a facility referral system, making it easier for inmates to find the most convenient treatment location for them.\n\nPast statistics show that the majority of inmates (60.1%) that participated in the Hepatitis C Continuity Program come from and return to New York City, 10.4% from suburban NYC counties, 16.6% from upstate counties, and the remaining 12.8% from rural counties. About 87.1% of releases have been treated for HCV by this program during their time in prison. The inmates that qualify for this program meet with staff from the Department of Correctional Services's Health Services and receive information about this opportunity. After going through paperwork regarding release of medical information to hospitals, the Department of Parole, and the Department of Health AIDS Institute, and Medicaid eligibility, the inmates are referred to facilities based on release and type of treatment required. Facilities use the inmates' HCV testing history, genotype, HCV treatment, HIV status and, if HIV infected, most recent CD4/T-Helper cell count and viral load and discharge information to determine the most suitable treatment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16952517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16952517", "title": "Karl William Kapp", "text": "Karl William Kapp\n\nKarl William Kapp (October 27, 1910 – April 4, 1976) was a German-American economist and Professor of Economics at the City University of New York and later the University of Basel. Kapp's main contribution was the development of a theory of social costs that captures urgent socio-ecological problems and proposes preventative policies based on the precautionary principle. His theory is in the tradition of various heterodox economic paradigms , such as ecological economics, Marxian economics, social economics, and institutional economics. As such, Kapp's theory of social costs was directed against neoclassical economics and the rise of neoliberalism. He was an opponent of the compartmentalization of knowledge and championed, instead, the integration and humanization of the social sciences. \n\nKapp was born in Königsberg in 1910 as son of August Wilhelm Kapp, who was a teacher of physics. In secondary school at the \"Hufengymnasium\" one of his teachers was the poet Ernst Wiechert End 1920s he started studying law and economics at the universities in Berlin and Königsberg. He continued his studies in London and at the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva, where in 1936 he received a Ph.D in economics with his dissertation „Planwirtschaft und Aussenhandel“.\n\nIn Geneva Kapp had met the people of the Frankfurt School, who emigrated to the US and settled as \"Institute for Social Research\" at the Columbia University, New York City. In 1937 they granted Kapp a scholarship. From 1938 to 1945 he was an instructor in Economics at the New York University and Columbia University in New York. From 1945 to 1950 he was Assistant Professor of Economics at the Wesleyan University in Middleton, Connecticut.\n\nFrom 1950 to 1965 he was Professor of economics at the University of the City of New York. He was among the first members of the Association for Evolutionary Economics (AFEE). In 1965 he returned to Switzerland and was Professor of economics at the University of Basel until 1976. In that time he was also a Visiting Professor at the Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Sorbonne, Paris.\n\nIn 1976 Kapp suffered a fatal heart attack during a conference in Dubrovnik, Croatia.\n\nKapp's research interests ranged from economics, sociology, policy making and environmental science to the theory of knowledge, the history of economic thought, and many related topics.\n\nIn his 1936 dissertation \"Planwirtschaft und Aussenhandel\" contributed to the debate around the economic calculation problem, a criticism of central economic planning. This problem was first proposed by Ludwig von Mises in 1920, expounded by Friedrich Hayek and further debated in the 1920s and 1930s. Kapp argued that a planned economy is \"not doomed to autarky because there are ways to deal with the valuation problem so that trade and exchange with market economies can be organized\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39253187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39253187", "title": "LGBT rights in Rondônia", "text": "LGBT rights in Rondônia\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Rondônia, Brazil enjoy many of the same legal protections available to non-LGBT people. Homosexuality is legal in the state.\n\nOn 26 April 2013, the \"Corregedoria Geral de Justiça\" of the state of Rondônia published in the Diário da Justiça Eletrônico this Friday, April 26, 2013, the Provision 008/2013-CG which provides for the direct qualification for marriage between same-sex and conversion of stable in marriage in the civil registration records of the State of Rondônia.\n"}
{"id": "56204835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56204835", "title": "La Nation, la Loi, le Roi", "text": "La Nation, la Loi, le Roi\n\nLa Nation, la Loi, le Roi (English: The Nation, the Law, the King) was the national motto of France during the constitutional period of the French monarchy, and is an example of a tripartite motto – much like the popular revolutionary slogan; \"Liberté, égalité, fraternité\".\n\nThe motto itself was featured on the French constitution of 1791 – and also on currency of the period.\n"}
{"id": "10770538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10770538", "title": "Letting agent", "text": "Letting agent\n\nA letting agent is a term for a facilitator through which an agreement is made between a landlord and tenant for the rental of a residential property. The term is common in countries using British English, including countries of the Commonwealth. In the UK, Australia and New Zealand the agreement between landlord and tenant is normally formalised by the signing of a tenancy agreement. A letting agency will normally charge a commission for their services, usually a percentage of the annual rent.\n\nLetting agents will often operate under the umbrella of an Estate Agent due to the synergies that exists between the two professions, but there are many agents that deal exclusively with lettings.\n\nAlthough there are two main types of renting, letting agents deal primarily with tenancies between private individuals and landlords.\n\nThere are a number of services offered by lettings agents, including:\n\nTypical letting agent fees to tenants in England and Wales may include:\n\n\nThe chancellor, Philip Hammond, promised to ban letting agent fees in England and Wales in his autumn statement of November 2016.\n\nTo maximise the service that a letting agent provides it is important prospective tenants to make letting agents aware of their requirements before they arrange viewings so that properties are better matched to tenant's needs. Since letting agents act as a matchmaker between property, landlord and tenant it is important for them to gain an understanding of customer requirements including; location, property size, budget, pets, etc.\n\nThere are currently no statutory arrangements regarding the regulation of letting agents. Around half of UK lettings agents are currently self-regulated. The principal organisations for lettings agents are the Association of Residential Letting Agents (ARLA) and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). These have codes of practice and compliance controls which govern the activities of their members.\n\nThe English government also provides its own accrediting body for letting agents. This body is called NALS (National Assured Letting Scheme). See http://www.nalscheme.co.uk/whatis.htm\n\nIn Scotland all landlords must be registered with the local authority. Whilst agents are not required to register, they are actively encouraged to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "14048428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14048428", "title": "List of ethnic interest groups in Canada", "text": "List of ethnic interest groups in Canada\n\nList of ethnic interest groups in Canada, often engaged in diaspora politics: \n\n"}
{"id": "47191596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47191596", "title": "List of things named after Kim Il-sung", "text": "List of things named after Kim Il-sung\n\nKim Il-sung was the founder and first leader of North Korea. Jane Portal, the author of \"Art Under Control in North Korea\", assesses that: \"[i]t is probably the case that Kim Il-sung [had] more buildings named after him during his lifetime than any other leader in history\". North Korea claims that \"[m]ore than 480 streets, institutions and organizations in 100 countries were named after Kim Il Sung\". Since Kim Il-sung's name \"Il-sung\" () can mean \"the Sun\", many things named after him are actually called this way.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32069520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32069520", "title": "Menstrual leave", "text": "Menstrual leave\n\nMenstrual leave is a type of leave where a woman may have the option to take paid or unpaid leave from her employment if she is menstruating and is unable to go to work because of this. Menstrual leave is controversial because it is seen by some as a criticism of women's work efficiency or as sexism.\n\nA girls' school in the south Indian state of Kerala had granted its students menstrual leave as early as 1912.\n\nThe concept of menstrual leave started in Japan in the early 20th century. In the 1920s, Japanese labor unions started to demand leave (seiri kyuka) for their female workers. In 1947, a law was brought into force by the Japanese Labor Standards that allowed menstruating women to take days off work. Then a unique legislation of its kind, it is now found in a few countries. Debate continues as to whether it is a medical necessity or a discriminatory measure.\n\nNike also included menstrual leave in their Code of Conduct in 2007, implemented around the globe wherever they operate. Nike obliges the business partners to follow the code principles by signing a Memorandum of Understanding. Australian Manufacturing Workers Union (AMWU) started a campaign for menstrual leave for female employees at Toyota. The union asked for 12 paid days of menstrual leave for a woman per year.\n\nMenstrual leave policies exist in some Asian countries, although individual companies in countries that do not have national laws may choose to implement such policies.\n\nIn Indonesia, under the Labor Act of 1948, women have a right to two days of menstrual leave per month.\n\nIn Japan, Article 68 of the Labour Standards Law states \"When a woman for whom work during menstrual periods would be specially difficult has requested leave, the employer shall not employ such woman on days of the menstrual period.\" While Japanese law requires that a woman going through especially difficult menstruation be allowed to take leave, it does not require companies to provide paid leave or extra pay for women who choose to work during menstruation.\n\nIn South Korea, not only are female employees entitled to menstrual leave according to the Article 71 of the Labour Standards Law, but they are also ensured additional pay if they do not take the menstrual leave that they are entitled to.\n\nIn Taiwan, the Act of Gender Equality in Employment gives women three days of \"menstrual leave\" per month, which will not be calculated toward the 30 days of \"common sick leave\", giving women up to 33 days of \"health-related leaves\" per year. The extra three days do not come with half-pays once a woman employee exceeds the regulated 30.\n\n"}
{"id": "53947765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53947765", "title": "Michael Glassner", "text": "Michael Glassner\n\nMichael Glassner (born 30 July 1968) is the executive director of the Donald Trump for President campaign committee. He is also president of the public affairs consulting firm C&M Transcontinental, and served as an aide to the former Governor of Alaska, Sarah Palin.\n\nIn 1988 Glassner served as Bob Dole's traveling aide during Dole's presidential campaign.\n\nGlassner became a senior advisor to Lewis Eisenberg, then Chairman of the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey, in the late 1990s.\n\nJust before the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, Glassner left the Port Authority and went to work for IDT founder Howard Jonas.\n\nIn 2014 Glassner served as Southwest Regional Political Director of AIPAC.\n\nDuring Donald Trump's campaign for president in 2016, Glassner helped procure the endorsement of Sarah Palin. \n"}
{"id": "25647162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25647162", "title": "Ministry of Defense (Argentina)", "text": "Ministry of Defense (Argentina)\n\nThe Ministry of Defense of Argentina is a ministry of the national executive power that deals with everything related to the country's national defense. It currently works at the Libertador Building, at Paseo Colón 250, Buenos Aires.\n\nAs of July 2017 the minister of Defense is Oscar Aguad.\n\nTraditionally the minister of Defense, as the Joint chiefs of Staff (Spanish: \"Estado Mayor Conjunto\") which traces back its origin to 1948 had a minor role in all armed forces activities, relegating key decisions to the respectives chiefs of staff. \n\nA major change came into effect on 12 June 2006 when President Néstor Kirchner brought into effect the Defense Law, which had been passed in 1988 as a means to modernize the doctrine of the armed forces and define their role, although successive governments had failed to put it into effect. \n\nThe law states that the armed forces will only be used against foreign aggression, and reduces the powers of the heads of the armed services, centralizing whole operational and acquisitions decisions under the authority of the minister of Defense through the Armed Forces Joint General Staff emphasizing Jointness \n\n\nThe 2014 military budget is US$ 10.000.000.000.\n\n"}
{"id": "12274484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12274484", "title": "National Democrats Party", "text": "National Democrats Party\n\nThe National Democrats Party (NDP) was a small right-wing political party in New Zealand, formed in 1999 by Anton Foljambe.\n\nThe party described itself as \"New Zealand's only conservative political party\". It was generally regarded as crypto-fascist, but not racist. Foljambe ran as an election candidate two or three times, with poor results. Kyle Chapman became Deputy Chairman of the NDP, and ran unsuccessfully for Mayor of Christchurch in 2007, pulling approximately 1% of the vote.\n\nThe party's policies included strident anti-communism and anti-feminism, the restoration of capital punishment and corporal punishment and strong national defence. It advocated a \"corporatist\" constitution, and had a conspiratorial view of world events.\n\nFoljambe resigned from the party in 2007. The party now appears to be defunct. Its website is no longer operational.\n"}
{"id": "563669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563669", "title": "New Guard", "text": "New Guard\n\nThe New Guard was a paramilitary organisation formed in Sydney, Australia in February 1931 by lieutenant colonel Eric Campbell, as a more visibly militant offshoot of another paramilitary organisation, the Old Guard. Like its predecessor, its central tenets originated from a conservative tradition defending loyalty to King and Empire, sound government, law and order, individual liberty and property rights. In particular, the movement was formed in response to the policies adopted by Jack Lang, the leader of the Labor Party and Premier of New South Wales It was led by Lieute. Colonel Eric Campbell, a First World War veteran. The New Guard declined rapidly following Lang's dismissal in May 1932, with its remaining members becoming increasingly inclined towards fascism. Still led by Campbell, the movement unsuccessfully attempted to enter parliament at the 1935 state election (running as the Centre Party), but disbanded completely shortly after.\n\nPolitically, the end of the Great War in 1918 left Australians unusually discontented and polarised. Venomous campaigns for the 1916-1917 conscription plebiscites had contributed a heavy dose of sectarianism and of rhetoric about disloyalty and extremism. The 1917 Australian General Strike had also left a bitter legacy. The union movement resented the vindictive suppression of the strike; conservatives saw the strike as proof of union extremism sparked by foreign theorists. Similarly, Bolshevik success in the 1917 October Revolution in Russia increased the credibility of a revolutionary strategy in the eyes both of those who feared it and of those who favoured it.\n\nThe labour movement reflected this sour mood. Its parliamentary strategy had been partly discredited by the desertion of leaders in the conscription split. After the war, impatient unions signalled their interest in methods proposed by the syndicalist \"One Big Union\" movement. Thwarted at the Australian Labor Party's 1919 Annual Conference, supporters of this approach failed in their attempt to set up a breakaway party; but Jock Garden (Secretary of the NSW Labor Council) did manage a merger of socialist groups to form the Communist Party of Australia in August 1920. For a time the Labor Party managed to contain its hard-core socialists. In October 1921 its Federal Conference did adopt a socialist objective. This was carefully qualified, becoming a timeless target to be pursued by constitutional and parliamentary methods. But unsurprisingly, the ideological conflict alarmed conservatives. So too did NSW Labor's uncomfortable relationship with the Communists. In 1925 the Labor Party Annual Conference even resolved to allow the Communist Party to affiliate with Labor. Although the Party quickly reversed this decision, Communist penetration would remain a credible threat to the labour movement and a basis for \"Red bogey\" rhetoric.\n\nJack Lang's reputation for radicalism arose during his 1925-27 term as Premier. Graham Freudenberg aptly terms his programme “solid Labor reforms clothed in provocative language”. Intimidating most of his parliamentary colleagues, Lang built a fervent following in the unions and branches as the leader, at last, who could be trusted to implement Labor policies.\n\nThe “Big Fella” was a remorseless faction fighter and a formidable demagogue. He was no revolutionary nor anyone's puppet. When necessary, he could use support from “Trades Hall Reds”, but still opposed Communist infiltration of the Labor Party. To achieve the Labor reforms he sincerely wanted, he focussed upon shoring up his personal control, carefully polishing his image as the champion of the unions, the branches, the little people.\nOn the other hand, his aggressive style and rhetoric provided an easy target for cartoonists and press sensationalism. His rough handling of symbolic issues like the role of the upper house, the rights of overseas bondholders or the role of the King's representatives at important ceremonial occasions reinforced conservatives’ image of Lang as a “Red wrecker”.\n\nAfter a landslide win in October 1930, Lang faced eighteen months of overlapping crises associated with the Great Depression. An open economy, dependent on overseas markets and investment, Australia was hit hard by a collapse of world prices for its exports. Large overseas debt repayments could only be met if Australian governments heavily cut other expenditures.\n\nLang's mission was to fight orthodox economic policies eroding the people's hard-won living standards through cuts in pensions and wages, together with reduced spending on public works which could have countered already severe unemployment levels. His relentless push for the abolition or at least taming of the Legislative Council reassured Labor supporters but deeply alarmed its opponents, especially when the Council, after new appointments, on May 13, 1932 passed the contentious Mortgages Taxation Bill.\n\nMore damaging was his feud with the Commonwealth Government over Depression policy and control of NSW Labor. Eventually a Lang Labor breakaway group helped bring down the Scullin Government and Labor's Federal Conference expelled Lang Labor. Both competed at the December 1931 election, won by the new United Australia Party. This heralded a decade in the wilderness for Labor at both levels.\nTo the horror of conservatives, the same period saw a socialist resurgence. At the 1930 Annual Conference Lang's “Inner Group” did not openly oppose a proposal to educate members and workers to prepare the way for “socialism in our time”. The energy of the subsequent campaign produced a rapid expansion of “socialisation units” whose leadership became a rival for control of Labor's machine. The 1931 Annual Conference actually passed a Three Year Plan for “socialism in our time”. It was rescinded on the following day after intense lobbying and ideological counter-attack by the “Inner Group”. Tension remained until the socialisation unit organisation was disbanded in 1933.\n\nDuring the 1930 election campaign Lang denied any intention of repudiating overseas debt. Nevertheless, in February 1931 the Lang Plan proposed that Australian governments should pay no further interest to British bondholders until Britain dealt with Australia's debts as it had settled its own with America. For conservatives this was an issue with strong overtones of unsound finance and disloyalty to Britain. A young R.G. Menzies conceded that the depression burden might need to be more fairly shared, but in May 1931 warned against violating the rights of bondholders: “If Australia was to surmount her trouble only by abandonment of traditional British standards of honesty, justice, fair play and honest endeavour, it would be better for Australia that every citizen within her boundaries should die of starvation during the next six months”. Lang played effectively upon the prejudices of his day, demonising landlords, moneylenders, and Jewish international financiers. His perfect target was the deflationary advice of Sir Otto Niemeyer, a Bank of England representative invited to report upon Australian prospects when the Scullin Government asked that Bank to fund Australia's London debts. Unable to get a moratorium or to have the Commonwealth take over a substantial part of NSW debt, Lang announced in February 1932 that NSW would default on April overseas loan payments. After meeting the bill, the new UAP Government sought repayment. Lang defiantly withdrew over £1m of NSW revenue from banks to be held by the NSW Treasury and ordered NSW departments to deposit revenues there in cash. When the Commonwealth on May 6 required NSW officials to pay revenues into the Commonwealth Bank, Lang instructed NSW departments not to do so. This arguably illegal behaviour became the immediate cause of Governor Game's decision to dismiss the Lang Government, although it was not tested in the courts.\n\nOne difficulty in assessing the New Guard's impact is that other separate but similar groups were also active, so that it was not always easy to assign responsibility for particular activities. In the countryside many groups protesting against perceived neglect, like the Riverina Movement, saw possible escape from Sydney domination and an opportunity to dissociate themselves from the “New South Welshers”. Behind the scenes a well connected Old Guard exercised considerable influence within such groups, through a network of relationships with traditional country institutions. By contrast, the New Guard was largely a Sydney organisation with only about 3000 country members. Yet it was the very public face of paramilitary activity. Often its name served as an umbrella term for all such activities. So the extent of Old Guard influence was usually not fully recognised, while that of the New Guard overstated.\n\nWhat was “New”? The New Guard began as a breakaway from the Old Guard after Campbell had been invited to resign, following his open criticism of the \"cowardly secrecy and timid inaction\" of Old Guard leaders. Nevertheless, the two groups remained very similar in their values and purposes, their distaste for selfish machine politics, their extremist/socialist targets, and even to some extent in their methods. Indeed, in its first few months the New Guard tried hard to negotiate acceptable terms for amalgamation. Some support for reunion continued even after this approach ended in April 1931.\n\nYet there were significant differences in their tactical emphases. These reflected differences in the nature of their leadership and the political resources available to them. The Old Guard's basic strength was that its leaders were part of Sydney's social and economic elite, including eminent AIF leaders, churchmen, businessmen. For example, one was a director of the Bank of New South Wales, which provided its bank draft. Another with links to the Defence Department, as secretary of the Royal Agricultural Society could accommodate horses and troops if country light horsemen needed to be sent to Sydney. As president of the Royal Sydney Golf Club, another could provide a convenient site for armed militia to drill. As influential insiders, the Old Guard leaders preferred to wait until threats to social order crystallised. If the civil authorities seemed unable to cope, they were to act as auxiliary guardians in support. Their role was to be a disciplined force prepared to intervene effectively to avert social breakdown, as their predecessors had earlier acted against union militants and socialists to ensure the maintenance of essential services.\n\nOld Guard practice was not quite this restrained. For example, in November 1931 at Grenfell they disrupted an open-air meeting addressed by Jock Garden. On the following day plans for similar action in Cowra were dropped when a large Australian Labor Army force turned up to defend Garden. In many country towns vigilance committees were encouraged to drive out the local subversives. An impressive mobilisation occurred in Dubbo to deal with its hundred or so “human dingoes”. Despite the anti-climax, which resulted in one person being kicked out, this exercise was favourably received; one newspaper described the incident as staunch bushmen “exterminating Red pests”.\n\nNevertheless, the New Guard had a stronger taste for vigilante action. It would not merely wait in reserve nor escape responsibility for its actions by hiding behind allegedly spontaneous vigilance committees. One of its divisional commanders foreshadowed its direct action methods against “Communist and other reptile meetings”. “Particularly obnoxious vermin” were to be dealt with by select tarring and feathering and horse whipping. He reported that the boys treated the idea “with much joy and flexing of muscles”.\n\nThe regular disruption of opponents’ meetings was partly a consequence of the New Guard's more limited political resources. Its finances were always under strain and it lacked the support network associated with the Old Guard. It was a “second-string” force with few socially significant leaders. Lacking the easy legitimacy of high social status and insider influence, it became increasingly wild in the early months of 1932.\n\nArguing that the time for talk was over, Campbell stepped up the programme of disruption and issued directives on the techniques of street fighting. At a more theatrical level, Francis de Groot's cutting of the ribbon at the opening of the Sydney Harbour Bridge on March 19, 1932 saved face for Campbell who had promised that Lang could not be permitted to usurp that ceremonial duty. De Groot, an Irish-born veteran of the First World War and furniture maker, infiltrated a mounted parade at the official opening of the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Wearing his old 15th Hussars uniform, he slashed the opening ribbon with a cavalry sword before Lang could perform the ceremony. He declared the bridge open \"in the name of the loyal and decent people of New South Wales\". Arrested by police, he was taken to a mental hospital for examination. The ribbon was hastily retied and duly cut by the premier.\nBy May 1932 it seemed that at least some New Guard members were ready for a coup d’état, as rumours spread of plots to kidnap Lang and to imprison State Cabinet at Berrima. The police presented evidence on this to the trial of the Guardsmen who had attacked Jock Garden, that the New Guard leadership had intended to hijack the Labor cabinet, incarcerate them in the Berrima Goal (disused at the time), and take over the State government.The Old Guard worried that it might have to protect the social order from the New Guard as well as the socialists.\n\nAlthough \"Labor Daily\" enjoyed taunting the “Boo Guard”, Lang Labor did defend itself by forming its Australian Labor Army and also by providing for the recruitment of special constables. Yet there is room to doubt whether the New Guard was capable of mounting a successful coup. For propaganda reasons, New Guard membership was often exaggerated, as when Campbell foreshadowed a procession of 100,000 men along Macquarie Street to present a petition to the Governor. Police estimates were perhaps 38,000 in Sydney and 3000 in the countryside, not all active or solidly supportive. Meetings were penetrated by spies and informants, while the New Guard's own intelligence operations were unimpressive. For example, its directors unrealistically asserted that there were 252,473 Communists in ten Sydney electorates alone.\n\nIts administration was unwieldy, with frequent squabbles within its overcomplicated command structures. Campbell was unconvincing in the role of charismatic great leader and was often criticised within his movement for his rash and abrasive leadership style. Often New Guard operations were surprisingly amateurish. For example, a June 1932 “Operation Bushfires” seemed a good public relations opportunity in the countryside. Despite a considerable effort, transport and equipment bungles and inexpert personnel only irritated locals. On another occasion New Guard members from adjoining areas brawled, each believing the other to be an Australian Labor Army group.\n\nIn addition, the New Guard operated under considerable constraints besides labour movement counter-measures. Even the Old Guard resisted its attempts to expand and eventually came to see it as a threat to social order which might have to be taken on. Commonwealth authorities were hostile to its sabre rattling. In the face of a coordinated police campaign, the New Guard even showed some signs of wilting.\n\nInitially the New Guard had a highly individualist Ideology; one of its primary aims was 'Maintenance of the full liberty of the subject': 'The foundation of the British Constitution is the supremacy of the individual over the State; the right to enjoy the fruits of our labor; freedom of expression and freedom of conscience. The great struggle ahead of us is to retain these liberties so as to give our children a heritage of freedom, and not slavery'.\nBetween the wars, fascism appealed to many who felt liberal democratic institutions were failing to cope. Its alternative was centralisation of authority in the hands of a charismatic leader seeking a regeneration of society, generally upon a basis of unquestioning nationalism tinged with militarism. This overriding cause justified violent suppression of opposition from selfish sectional interests and included fierce anti-communism.The New Guard did display many of these features. In particular, Campbell's interest in an 'individualist form' of fascism strengthened in the early 1930s. At first he was coy about what might replace the old machine politics. Perhaps a small commission of 'disinterested gentlemen' with irreproachable records might provide an interim administration for about three years, or longer if wanted? In 1932 he asserted: 'The New Guard is the vanguard of a crusade for moral regeneration... We will bridge all classes to work for a common goal...and prove that the British race does not deteriorate under Southern skies...Inspired by the example of Italy, the New Guard will create in Australia a new spirit in the people'. On his return from a 1933 European tour, he wrote \"The New Road\" which favoured Italian corporatism. He also adopted the symbolism of bodyguards, escorts, uniforms, and the Roman salute. The New Guard's ideology was a mixture of classical liberal individualism and economic corporatism.\nAlso within the New Guard were splinter groups like the Fascist Legion whose militancy worried even Campbell. Legion members wore Ku Klux Klan style gowns and hoods at meetings to guarantee anonymity. Besides investigating disloyalty and laxity within the New Guard, they engaged in actions like a home invasion to bash militant unionist Jock Garden. They were reported to be planning kidnaps and raids upon police arms stores. Such activities contributed to a “stampede” of resignations which began even before Lang's dismissal.\n\nWas NSW close to civil war by May 1932? Certainly political life was fearful, angry, close to violence. Many victims of the Great Depression looked desperately for better answers. While advocates of system change included revolutionary socialists, there seems little basis for the contemporary hysteria about insurrection from that source. It was rather the self-styled guardians who seemed poised for a coup. Andrew Moore suggests that Campbell (and even more the Fascist Legion) were ready for an effort to fulfil their fascist potential. But he also argues that the New Guard lacked the capability to succeed in that attempt.\n\nBy mid 1932 the New Guard was largely a spent force, though it drifted into the mid 1930s. It contested the state 1935 election (under the name of the Centre Party) and even enjoyed an after life as a bogey in the early 1970s. The rapid fall away of New Guard membership with Lang's dismissal does seem indirect evidence of a lack of support for a fascist agenda. Yet there is no way of knowing what events might have been sparked if a coup had been attempted in so tense a context. However, it was not. Characteristically, the Old Guard waited, preferring first a heavy-handed attempt to influence Governor Game to dismiss the Lang Government. Eventually, after cautious and open consideration, Game's timely intervention did release the tension. Although his polarising style had been a major cause of the crisis, Lang also contributed to the resolution. He apparently considered pre-emptive action to prevent his dismissal, but refrained. Nor did he have any desire for armed struggle in the streets. Instead he fought on through traditional parliamentary methods. Perhaps he believed he would at least keep control within NSW Labor, to return triumphant as he had after defeat in 1927.\n\nOn May 13 the UAP leader, Bertram Stevens, was sworn in as a caretaker Premier. A general election was held on June 11 which overwhelmingly rejected Lang's bid to regain office. Tension between Commonwealth and NSW law enforcement authorities, which had seemed on the verge of confrontation, cooled down. The story of the rise and decline of the New Guard suggests that, for the citizens of NSW, the habits of living with liberal democratic institutions remained entrenched.\n"}
{"id": "1262096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1262096", "title": "New People's Army", "text": "New People's Army\n\nThe New People's Army (NPA) () is the armed wing of the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP). It was formed and founded by Jose Maria Sison (Commander Dante) and Lucio Manlapaz on 29 March 1969. The Maoist NPA conducts its armed guerrilla struggle based on the strategical line of protracted people's war. The Philippine Army estimated the NPA's strength at 3,200 fighters at the end of 2015.\n\nUntil 1992, the Philippine government has treated the NPA along with the CPP as an illegal organization. The Anti-Subversion Act of 1957 which outlawed the group was lifted during the administration of Fidel Ramos. The NPA continued to operate. It was in 2011 that peace talks resumed.\n\nThe NPA collects exhorts money, mostly from businesses, in the areas where it operates, in the areas where it operates. The CPP refers to the NPA as \"the tax enforcement agency of the people's revolutionary government\". In 2014, Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Zagala, speaking for the Armed Forces of the Philippines, said that \"[the communist rebels] have lost their ideological mooring and now engaged in extortion [activities]\".\n\nPeace negotiations have reached an impasse. The Philippine government has specifically drafted a \"new framework\" which seeks to end the 27-year-long stalemate in the talks, hoping to build ground with the leftist rebels that is more comprehensive than human rights, the only issue on which the negotiating parties agree.\n\nHowever, relations with the government soured in 2017. President Rodrigo Duterte officially designated the group as a terrorist organization in late 2017.\n\nBoth the United States and the European Union had designated the NPA as a terrorist organization prior to the Duterte government.\n\nThe 1960s saw a revival in nationalism and patriotism especially among the youth and students in the Philippines. The ongoing Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution in China sparked a renewed interest in Marxism–Leninism–Maoism study, with emphasis on lessons from the Chinese Revolution. National democratic organizations such as the Kabataang Makabayan and other groups began to see the need for a renewed armed struggle based upon Mao's strategy of protracted people's war. On 26 December 1968, the CPP was re-established on a Marxist−Leninist−Mao Zedong thought line. The CPP immediately went about organizing a new people's army. The CPP had previously made contact with former members of the Hukbong Mapagpalayang Bayan (HMB), to which the Huks changed their name in the 1950s, in Central Luzon. On 29 March 1969, the New People's Army was formed. It had only 72 fighters and was equipped with light weapons. After its initial formation, the CPP and the NPA dispersed and established regional cells in several parts of the country.\n\nThe NPA claims responsibility for the 1989 assassination of U.S. Army Colonel James \"Nick\" Rowe, founder of the U.S. Army Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) course. Colonel Rowe was part of a military assistance program to the Philippine Army. The NPA asserts that this made him a legitimate military target.\n\nIn the 1990s internal criticism about mistakes in the 1980s led to the Second Great Rectification Movement, launched in 1992 and largely completed in 1998, leading to a resurgence in the Philippine insurgency. The Second Rectification ended internal purges of the movement that killed hundreds of members on allegations of being \"deep penetration agents\" of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and the Philippine intelligence community. Former CPP and NPA cadre Lualhati Milan Abreu's award-winning memoir \"Agaw-Dilim Agaw Liwanag\" chronicled the executions.\n\nDespite its successes, the Second Great Rectification also resulted in a series of splits within the CPP and the NPA. The Alex Boncayao Brigade, notorious for targeting policemen and officials that were allegedly corrupt, left the party, while some ended up forming groups such as the Revolutionary Proletarian Army and the Rebolusyonaryong Hukbong Bayan.\n\nThis group was designated as a foreign terrorist organization by the United States in August 2002 and by the European Union in November 2005. The NPA's founder lives in the Philippines in peace, but under close watch by the government. The NPA operates mostly in the rural areas and their targets often include military, police, government informers and businessmen who refuse to pay \"revolutionary taxes\".\n\nThe Arroyo administration negotiated intermittently with delegates of the NPA in European countries.\n\nThe arrest of a Naxalite guerrilla by Indian security forces suggested links with the NPA, who were said to have traveled to India to teach them how to conduct guerrilla warfare against the army and police.\n\nIn March 2008, AFP chief Hermogenes Esperon Jr. claimed that the NPA rebels had only around 4,900 members, significantly down from 26,000 at its peak in the 1980s. The NPA currently have 110 guerrilla fronts in 71 out of 81 provinces. Forty thousand people have died in the conflict since 1969.\n\nOn 5 September 2007, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo signed Amnesty Proclamation 1377 for members of the CPP and its armed wing, the NPA; other communist rebel groups; and their umbrella organization, the National Democratic Front. The amnesty covers the crime of rebellion and all other crimes \"in pursuit of political beliefs\", but not crimes against chastity, rape, torture, kidnapping for ransom, use and trafficking of illegal drugs and other crimes for personal ends and violations of international law or convention and protocols, \"even if alleged to have been committed in pursuit of political beliefs\". The National Committee on Social Integration (NCSI) was to issue a Certificate of Amnesty to qualified applicants. Implementing rules and regulations were drafted and the decree was submitted to the Senate of the Philippines and the House of Representatives of the Philippines for their concurrence. The proclamation was to become effective only after Congress had concurred.\n\nNPA rebels disguised as Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency personnel had raided a prison in Lucena, Quezon Province, overpowering the guards and freeing rebel prisoners they deemed to be political prisoners. Two of the seven people deemed political prisoners did not escape with the NPA raiders, opting to be cleared of any wrongdoing by lawful legal means. Other NPA rebels held in other prisons were to be moved into secured facilities.\n\nThere were 43 people arrested at a community health meeting in Morong, Rizal on 6 February 2010. They were accused of being part of the NPA. On 10 December 2010, President Benigno Aquino III ordered the release of 38 of the 43 because the Morong 43 case had due process violations. Seven of the released were reported to have returned to the mountains to continue the NPA's armed struggle. The last five admitted being part of the NPA and are being prosecuted for various criminal offenses including murder, extortion and other offenses.\n\nThe NPA conducted attacks on 3 October 2011 against three large-scale mining corporations in Surigao del Norte. The attacks spanned only three hours, but they resulted in grave damage, including the burning of ten dump trucks, eight backhoes, two barges and a guest house. The mining firms attacked include the Taganito Mining Corporation at Taganito village in Claver town; the 4K Mining at Cadiano village, also in Claver; and the Thpal Mining located near the Taganito Mining Corp. compound. The AFP claimed that the NPA attacked the mining firms because of their failure to pay \"revolutionary taxes\".\n\nBy the end of 2011, the government has resumed preliminary peace talks with the NPA pending formal negotiations with the NPA's parent political organization, the CPP.\n\n22 March 2014 saw the arrest of Benito Tiamzon (chairman of the CPP and its armed wing, the NPA) in Cebu province along with his wife Wilma and five other members of the central committee of the CPP–NPA. Wilma Tiamzon is also the secretary general of the CPP–NPA. The arrest of the Tiamzons happened exactly a week before the 45th anniversary of the CPP–NPA on 29 March 2014. In January 2015, the NPA moved its center of operation to the City of Kabankalan, Negros Occidental. NPA top officials referred to the City of Kabankalan as the \"Heart and Liver of Terrorism\" where they planned to attack military and civilian outposts every minute and every second of the day as part of their General Plan of Action (GPoA) for 2015. This part of the NPA GPoA, labeled the \"Operation: Chiquitita\", was revealed during the 15th Annual NPA Strategic Planning held at the Manila Hotel in December 2014. Police and military officers are strongly encouraged to refuse being assigned to the City of Kabangkalan, even at the risk of termination and dishonorable dismissal from the police and military force.\n\nPlantations run by Japanese companies have been assaulted by the NPA.\n\nAs of early 2017, the Defense Secretary estimates the NPA has about 5,000 members. However, the AFP estimates the NPA has only 3,700 members.\n\n\nThere have been reports of the Chinese government shipping arms to the NPA. Due to this, the NPA have an unknown number of Type 56 assault rifles. The NPA has also allegedly received support from North Korea as well as former members from the defunct Communist Party of Malaya.\n\nThe Philippine Army had apprehended Eduardo Quitoriano in 1994, who was a NPA liaison officer to the Japanese Red Army, who was involved in a money laundering case in Switzerland.\n\nIt is reported that the NPA had supported the Naxalites on the Naxalite–Maoist insurgency by training and technical support.\n\nThe Government of the Philippines has outlawed the NPA along with the CPP as through the Anti-Subversion Act of 1957 which branded the Partido Komunista ng Pilipinas-1930 and the Hukbalahap as an \"organized conspiracy\". As splinter groups which had roots to the two organization, the ban extended to the CPP-NPA. The law was repealed by President Fidel Ramos on October 1992, decriminalizing membership in the NPA and CPP. \n\nIn December 2017, President Rodrigo Duterte declared the NPA along with the CPP as terrorist organizations.\n\nThe NPA is designated as a Foreign Terrorist Organization by the U.S. State Department and as a terrorist group by the EU Common Foreign and Security Policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22007", "title": "North Atlantic Treaty", "text": "North Atlantic Treaty\n\nThe North Atlantic Treaty, also referred to as the Washington Treaty, is the treaty that forms the legal basis of, and is implemented by, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The treaty was signed in Washington, D.C. on 4 April 1949.\n\nThe treaty was signed in Washington, D.C. on 4 April 1949 by a committee which was chaired by US diplomat Theodore Achilles. Earlier secret talks had been held at the Pentagon between 22 March and 1 April 1948, of which Achilles said:\n\nThe talks lasted about two weeks and by the time they finished, it had been secretly agreed that there would be a treaty, and I had a draft of one in the bottom drawer of my safe. It was never shown to anyone except Jack [Hickerson]. I wish I had kept it, but when I left the Department in 1950, I dutifully left it in the safe and I have never been able to trace it in the archives. It drew heavily on the Rio Treaty, and a bit of the Brussels Treaty, which had not yet been signed, but of which we were being kept heavily supplied with drafts. The eventual North Atlantic Treaty had the general form, and a good bit of the language of my first draft, but with a number of important differences.\n\nAccording to Achilles, another important author of the treaty was John D. Hickerson:\n\nMore than any human being Jack was responsible for the nature, content, and form of the Treaty...It was a one-man Hickerson treaty.\n\nThe treaty was created with an armed attack by the Soviet Union against Western Europe in mind, but the mutual self-defense clause was never invoked during the Cold War. Rather, it was invoked for the first time in 2001 in response to the 11 September 2001 attacks against the World Trade Center and The Pentagon in Operation Eagle Assist.\n\nThe following twelve nations signed the treaty and thus became the founding members of NATO. The following leaders signed the agreement as plenipotentiaries of their countries in Washington, D.C.:\n\n\nThe following 17 nations joined the treaty after the 12 founding countries:\n\nArticle 1 states that: \"The Parties undertake, as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, to settle any international dispute in which they may be involved by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security and justice are not endangered, and to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force in any manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations.\" \n\nArticle 2 states that: \"The Parties will contribute toward the further development of peaceful and friendly international relations by strengthening their free institutions, by bringing about a better understanding of the principles upon which these institutions are founded, and by promoting conditions of stability and well-being. They will seek to eliminate conflict in their international economic policies and will encourage economic collaboration between any or all of them.\"\n\nArticle 3 states that: \"In order more effectively to achieve the objectives of this Treaty, the Parties, separately and jointly, by means of continuous and effective self-help and mutual aid, will maintain and develop their individual and collective capacity to resist armed attack.\"\n\nArticle 4 states that: \"The Parties will consult together whenever, in the opinion of any of them, the territorial integrity, political independence or security of any of the Parties is threatened.\"\n\nThe treaty includes Article 4, which triggers not military intervention but merely consultation over military matters when \"the territorial integrity, political independence or security of any of the parties is threatened\".\n\nIt has been invoked three times by Turkey: once in 2003 over the Second Persian Gulf War (Iraq War), once in June 2012 after the shooting down of a Turkish military jet, and once again in October 2012 after Syrian attacks on Turkey and their counterattacks.\n\nAn Article 4 meeting was invoked by Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland in March 2014 as a response to the extraterritorial Crimean crisis.\n\nTurkey announced plans to convoke under Article 4 an extraordinary meeting on 28 July 2015, ostensibly in response to the 2015 Suruç bombing, which it attributed to ISIS, and other security issues along its southern border. A press statement released by the Alliance declared that \"Turkey requested the meeting in view of the seriousness of the situation after the heinous terrorist attacks in recent days, and also to inform allies of the measures it is taking.\" The US announced through \"The New York Times\" on 27 July that it had already agreed \"in general terms on a plan that envisions American warplanes, Syrian insurgents and Turkish forces working together to sweep Islamic State militants from a 60-mile-long strip of northern Syria along the Turkish border... long-range artillery could be used across the border.\" Concerns were expressed that the plan would put allied warplanes closer than ever to areas that Syrian aircraft regularly bomb; the plan did not determine the reaction if Syrian warplanes attack allied personnel on the ground in what is Syrian territory. Turkish Prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu said the operations will continue as long as Turkey faces a threat, and discussed the situation with UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon in a telephone call over the weekend of 26 July. The US said that Turkey \"has a right to take action\" against the PKK, a Kurdish insurrectionary group that has sought since 1984 autonomy from Turkey. A news report also disclosed prior to the 28 July meeting that Turkey had violated Iraqi airspace in its pursuit of the PKK.\n\nThe key section of the treaty is Article 5. Its commitment clause defines the \"casus foederis\". It commits each member state to consider an armed attack against \"one\" member state, in Europe or North America, to be an armed attack against \"them all\".\n\nIt has been invoked only once in NATO history: by the United States after the September 11 attacks in 2001. The invocation was confirmed on 4 October 2001, when NATO determined that the attacks were indeed eligible under the terms of the North Atlantic Treaty. The eight official actions taken by NATO in response to the 9/11 attacks included Operation \"Eagle Assist\" and Operation \"Active Endeavour\", a naval operation in the Mediterranean which was designed to prevent the movement of terrorists or weapons of mass destruction, as well as enhancing the security of shipping in general. Active Endeavour began on 4 October 2001.\n\nIn April 2012, Turkish PM Erdogan considered invoking Article 5 of the NATO treaty to protect Turkish national security in a dispute over the Syrian Civil War. The alliance responded quickly and a spokesperson said the alliance was \"monitoring the situation very closely and will continue to do so\" and \"takes it very seriously protecting its members.\" On April 17, Turkey said it would raise the issue quietly in the next NATO ministerial meeting. On April 29, the Syrian foreign ministry wrote that it had received Erdogan's message, which he had repeated a few days before, loud and clear. On 25 June, the Turkish Deputy Prime Minister said that he intended to raise Article 5 at a specially-convened NATO meeting because of the downing of an \"unarmed\" Turkish military jet which was \"13 sea miles\" from Syria over \"international waters\" on a \"solo mission to test domestic radar systems\". A Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman insisted that the plane \"flying at an altitude of 100 meters inside the Syrian airspace in a clear breach of Syrian sovereignty\" and that the \"jet was shot down by anti-aircraft fire,\" the bullets of which \"only have a range of 2.5 kilometers (1.5 miles)\" rather than by radar-guided missile. On 5 August, Erdoğan stated that \"The tomb of Suleyman Shah [in Syria] and the land surrounding it is our territory. We cannot ignore any unfavorable act against that monument, as it would be an attack on our territory, as well as an attack on NATO land... Everyone knows his duty, and will continue to do what is necessary.\" NATO Secretary-General Rasmussen later said in advance of the October 2012 ministerial meeting that the alliance was prepared to defend Turkey, and acknowledged that this border dispute concerned the alliance, but underlined the alliance's hesitancy over a possible intervention: \"A military intervention can have unpredicted repercussions. Let me be very clear. We have no intention to interfere militarily [at present with Syria].\" On 27 March 2014, recordings were released on YouTube of a conversation purportedly involving then Turkish foreign minister Ahmet Davutoğlu, Foreign Ministry Undersecretary Feridun Sinirlioğlu, then National Intelligence Organization (MİT) head Hakan Fidan, and Deputy Chief of General Staff General Yaşar Güler. The recording has been reported as being probably recorded at Davutoğlu's office at the Foreign Ministry on 13 March. Transcripts of the conversation reveal that, as well as exploring the options for Turkish forces engaging in false flag operations inside Syria, the meeting involved a discussion about using the threat to the tomb as an excuse for Turkey to intervene militarily inside Syria. Davutoğlu stated that Erdogan told him that he saw the threat to the tomb as an \"opportunity\".\n\nPrior to the meeting of Defence Ministers and recently appointed Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg at Brussels in late June 2015, it was stated by a journalist, who referenced an off-the-record interview with an official source, that \"Entirely legal activities, such as running a pro-Moscow TV station, could become a broader assault on a country that would require a NATO response under Article Five of the Treaty... A final strategy is expected in October 2015.\" In another report, the journalist reported that \"as part of the hardened stance, the UK has committed £750,000 of its money to support a counter-propaganda unit at NATO's headquarters in Brussels.\"\n\nArticle 6 states that the treaty covers only member nations' territories in Europe and North America, and islands in the North Atlantic north of the Tropic of Cancer, plus French Algeria. It was the opinion in August 1965 of the US State Department, the US Defense Department and the legal division of NATO that an attack on the U.S. state of Hawaii would not trigger the treaty, but an attack on the other 49 would.\n\nOn 16 April 2003, NATO agreed to take command of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan, which includes troops from 42 countries. The decision came at the request of Germany and the Netherlands, the two nations leading ISAF at the time of the agreement, and all nineteen NATO ambassadors approved it unanimously. The handover of control to NATO took place on 11 August, and marked the first time in NATO's history that it took charge of a mission outside the north Atlantic area.\n\nAny party may quit NATO one year after depositing its notice of denunciation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49925199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49925199", "title": "Pangat", "text": "Pangat\n\nPangat is a word derived from the Sanskrit word \"pankti\" (पङ्क्ति) that means a line, a row, or a group. It is a synonym for \"Guru Ka Langar\". In a Pangat, food is served by volunteers (Sevadars) to people of all religions who sit together to eat. Pangat is about eating food while sitting in rows with no discrimination on the basis of caste, creed and religion. According to the beliefs of Sikhism, nobody sleeps without eating, nor should anybody die of hunger.\n\nPangat and Sangat came together from the time of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the first Guru of Sikhism. Nanak's father gave him money for trade that he spent on feeding hungry Sadhus. He named this that \"True Transaction\" (Sacha Sauda). Where there is Sangat, there is always a Langar (food service). According to Sikh principles all people (Sangat) who sit in pangat share food on equal basis. \n\nIn the history of Sikhism, when Emperor Akbar and the King of Haripur went to meet Guru Amar Das Ji, the third Guru of Sikhism. They both had to eat Langar in the pangat before meeting the Guru.\n"}
{"id": "28989870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28989870", "title": "Partnership limited by shares", "text": "Partnership limited by shares\n\nA partnership limited by shares is a hybrid between a partnership and a limited liability company. The capital and ownership of the company is divided between shareholders who have a limited liability and one or more partners who have full liability for the remainder of the company's debts. The partner(s) will usually direct the operations of the company while the shareholders are passive investors.\n\n"}
{"id": "34810235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34810235", "title": "Party finance in Sweden", "text": "Party finance in Sweden\n\nSince the 1970s party finance in Sweden on all levels of the political system depends heavily on public subsidies With an estimated SEK 146 (more than $17) per voter a year the spending level is among the highest in the world of established democracies.\n\nPublic subsidies are the major source of party funds in Sweden. At the national level they provide 80 to 90 per cent of the major parties' annual revenue.\n\nWith all Swedish parties \"annual routine spending is far more important than extra campaign expenses\".\n\nAs a consequence of the preservation of internal autonomy of political parties as voluntary associations there was no regulation whatsoever for many years. Parties and lawmakers believed that this autonomy had to be preserved.\nWhen GRECO started to evaluate \"Transparency of Party Funding\" in Council of Europe member states the organization recommended to require political parties \"to keep proper books and accounts ... to ensure that income, expenditure, assets and debts are accounted for in a comprehensive manner following a coherent format\", to consolidate such accounts to include local branches and provide for an easy access of the general public to the annual accounts of political parties. The Swedish authorities replied \"that they did not have any reason to believe that the longstanding self regulation\" needs to be amended. However, by the end of 2012 the Swedish government had \"decided to initiate a legislative process with the purpose of ... making information regarding the funding of political parties more accessible. ... draft legislation would be submitted to Parliament in autumn 2013.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4929519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4929519", "title": "Point of information (competitive debate)", "text": "Point of information (competitive debate)\n\nIn competitive debate, most commonly in the World Schools, Karl Popper, and British Parliamentary debate styles, a Point of Information (POI) is when a member of the team opposing that of the current speaker gets to briefly interrupt the current speaker, offering a POI in the form of a question or a statement. This may be as a correction, asking for clarity, or just a plain question. As in some debating styles, such as World Schools Style, they often may not be offered in the first or last minute of any speech (known as \"protected time\"), or during reply speeches. Points of information may never be offered to a member of the same team.\n\nPoints of information are an important part of any debate that includes them, as they offer a much greater degree of engagement between teams. In some styles of debate, such as British Parliamentary Style, they take on an even greater importance, as teams are forced to use them in order to maintain their relevance during a debate. Furthermore, they allow speakers to demonstrate greater wit and presence of thought than is generally possible in a speech, as they are required to respond instantly to prepared points from their opposition in a logical way.\n\nA point of information is also a request for information from the current speaker, in \"Robert's Rules of Order\". The 11th edition of \"Robert's Rules\", published in 2011, changes the name to \"request for information\" to clarify its purpose.\n\nIn all competitions that allow points of information, their use is restricted by a number of rules to allow the speaker to maintain control of their speech. Generally, the procedure for offering a point of information is as follows:\n\n\nA rule of thumb for points of information is that each speaker should accept two during the course of his or her speech, and offer two to every opposing speaker. Taking fewer points may be interpreted as cowardice when plenty were offered, while speakers that accept too many risk losing control of their speech. Similarly, it is generally frowned upon for speakers to offer excessive POIs, a practice known as \"badgering\" that usually results in the adjudicator calling the debate to order.\n\nPoints of Information, as with any other debating technique, are subject to each speaker's own personal style. For instance, while it is broadly accepted that a debater should stand when offering a point of information, there is no set wording or format for the offer itself. Examples of valid offers, that may be combined with any of several common hand gestures, are:\n\nSimilarly, there is no set way of dealing with a point of information. While a speaker would ideally refute or otherwise deal with it on the spot, it is also acceptable for them to refer the opposing member to another part of their speech (i.e., \"I will be dealing with this in greater detail later in my speech.\"), or to refer the entire point to another of their speakers (i.e., \"This point is clearly incorrect. My second speaker will argue...\"). While speakers are not explicitly marked for the quality of their points of information or responses to them, they often help to create the impression of skill and improve their overall mark.\n\nPoints of information may be offered in several forms, depending on the style of debating being used. The two most common of these are:\n\n"}
{"id": "32904798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32904798", "title": "RECOFTC – The Center for People and Forests", "text": "RECOFTC – The Center for People and Forests\n\nRECOFTC – The Center for People and Forests is an international not-for-profit organization that focuses on capacity building for community forestry in the Asia Pacific region. It advocates for the increased involvement of local communities living in and around forests - some 450 million people in Asia-Pacific - in the equitable and ecologically sustainable management of forest landscapes. The Regional Community Forestry Training Center for Asia and the Pacific (RECOFTC) opened in Bangkok, Thailand, in March 1987 with support from the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the Government of Switzerland (through the Asian Development Bank), and Thailand's Kasetsart University.\n\nOriginally a regional training and research hub for community forestry, RECOFTC now works on the ground through a network of strategic partnerships with governments, NGOs, development organizations and local people throughout Asia-Pacific, and has worked in parts of Africa. In 1999, a charter was developed with a proposal to turn RECOFTC into an international organization, which was signed by seven countries (all the Mekong countries and Switzerland). In 2000, the Royal Thai Government (RTG) signed an agreement with RECOFTC that formally recognized the Center as an autonomous international organization.\n\nTraining, capacity building and other learning activities remain central to RECOFTC's work, now complemented with on-the-ground projects, policy work, and strategic communications. In 2009, the organization adopted the new name RECOFTC – The Center for People and Forests to reflect this broader scope of work.\n\nTo strengthen its regional program, RECOFTC established country program offices in Cambodia, Indonesia, Thailand, and Vietnam in 2010.\n\nThe Center’s work is focused in four thematic areas:\n\n\nThe Center's portfolio currently includes over 40 projects and services, including large capacity-building projects for REDD+ regionally and for community forestry in Cambodia.\n\nSince its inception in 1987 as a regional training institution for forestry, the Center has trained over ten thousand practitioners at all levels in community forestry. The Center’s capacity-building program consists of training courses, learning activities and networks, workshops, and study tours. The program seeks to enhance skills in its four thematic areas, listed above.\n"}
{"id": "30259528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30259528", "title": "Red tourism", "text": "Red tourism\n\nRed tourism () is a subset of tourism in the People's Republic of China in which Chinese people visit locations with historical significance to Chinese Communism \"to rekindle their long-lost sense of class struggle and proletarian principles.\" The Government began actively supporting red tourism in 2005 to promote the \"national ethos\" and socioeconomic development in those areas, which are typically rural and poorer than East China. In July 2010, officials representing 13 Chinese cities signed a \"China Red Tourism Cities Strategic Cooperation Yan'an Declaration\" to develop red tourism; the cities are: Guang'an, Yan'an, Xiangtan, Jinggangshan, Ruijin, Zunyi, Baise, Shijiazhuang, Linyi, Anyang, Yulin, Shaanxi, Qingyang, and Huining. A Chinese official said \"This is a major project that benefits both the Party, the nation and the people, either in the economic, cultural and the political sense.\"\n\nOther former Communist countries can have red tourism, such as the Czech Republic, previously part of Czechoslovakia and ruled by the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe China Red Tourism and Cultural Festival is held annually in Hunan. The 2010 Festival took place in July and took advantage of high-speed rail in China.\n\nAging original members of the Red Army criticise the \"Disneyfication\" of what should be solemn war memorials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58321041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58321041", "title": "Rice index", "text": "Rice index\n\nThe Rice index is a metric which indicates the degree of agreement, or roll-call cohesion, within any sized voting body. A result of 0 indicates a stalemate, while a 1 indicates a perfect consensus. The formula is often used in the social sciences, and is the ratio of the difference between majority and minority to the sum of majority and minority.\n\nYes = Number of yes votes, No = Number of votes against.\n\nIt is named for Stuart A. Rice (1889-1969), Chairman of the United States Central Statistical Board, president of the American Statistical Association in 1933 and Assistant Director of the Office of Statistical Standards in the Bureau of the Budget from 1940-1955.\n"}
{"id": "2994173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994173", "title": "Safety culture", "text": "Safety culture\n\nSafety culture is the collection of the beliefs, perceptions and values that employees share in relation to risks within an organization, such as a workplace or community. Safety culture is a part of organizational culture, and has been described in a variety of ways; notably the National Academies of Science and the Association of Land Grant and Public Universities have published summaries on this topic in 2014 and 2016 .\n\nStudies have found that workplace related disasters are a result of a breakdown in an organization’s policies and procedures that were established to deal with safety, and that the breakdown flows from inadequate attention being paid to safety issues.\n\nA good safety culture can be promoted by senior management commitment to safety, realistic practices for handling hazards, continuous organisational learning, and care and concern for hazards shared across the workforce.\n\nThe Chernobyl disaster highlighted the importance of safety culture and the effect of managerial and human factors on safety performance. The term ‘safety culture’ was first used in INSAG’s (1986) ‘Summary Report on the Post-Accident Review Meeting on the Chernobyl Accident’ where safety culture was described as:\n\n\"That assembly of characteristics and attitudes in organizations and individuals which establishes that, as an overriding priority, nuclear plant safety issues receive the attention warranted by their significance.\"\n\nSince then, a number of definitions of safety culture have been published. The U.K. Health and Safety Commission developed one of the most commonly used definitions of safety culture:\n\"The product of individual and group values, attitudes, perceptions, competencies, and patterns of behaviour that determine the commitment to, and the style and proficiency of, an organisation’s health and safety management\".\n\"Organisations with a positive safety culture are characterized by communications founded on mutual trust, by shared perceptions of the importance of safety and by confidence in the efficacy of preventive measures.\"\nThe Cullen Report into the Ladbroke Grove rail crash saw safety culture as \"the way we typically do things around here\"; this would imply that every organisation has a safety culture – just some a better one than others. The concept of 'safety culture' originally arose in connection with major organisational accidents, where it provides a crucial insight into how multiple organisational barriers against such accidents can be simultaneously ineffective: \"With each disaster that occurs our knowledge of the factors which make organisations vulnerable to failures has grown. It has become clear that such vulnerability does not originate from just ‘human error’, chance environmental factors or technological failures alone. Rather, it is the ingrained organisational policies and standards which have repeatedly been shown to predate the catastrophe.\"\nHowever it is now also applied (with less certain validity) to individual accidents, and hence has come to relate to a full range of safety behaviors from the wearing of PPE (or not), the quality of delivery of a tool box talk, the quality of shopfloor response to fault conditions – or (what is frequently the main concern for major accidents) the extent to which safety considerations influence high level meetings and management decisions. A new starter or recently arrived sub contractor will soon pick up what the local norms are and be heavily influenced by them. If a tipping point of around 90% compliance is observed then these individuals will be highly likely to comply too – but if these individuals observe a 50:50 split then they may feel they have free choice as whatever they do they won't stand out.\n\nThe safety culture of an organization and its safety management system are closely related, but the relationship is not simply that the safety culture complies with the formal safety management system \nThe safety culture of an organization cannot be created or changed overnight; it develops over time as a result of history, work environment, the workforce, health and safety practices, and management leadership: \"Organizations, like organisms, adapt\". An organization’s safety culture is ultimately reflected in the way safety is addressed in its workplaces (whether boardroom or shopfloor). In reality an organization's safety management system is not a set of policies and procedures on a bookshelf, but how those policies and procedures are implemented into the workplace, which will be influenced by the safety culture of the organization or workplace. The UK HSE notes that safety culture is not just (nor even most significantly) an issue of shopfloor worker attitudes and behaviours \"Many companies talk about ‘safety culture’ when referring to the inclination of their employees to comply with rules or act safety or unsafely. However we find that the culture and style of management is even more significant, for example a natural, unconscious bias for production over safety, or a tendency to focussing on the short-term and being highly reactive.\"\nSince the 1980s there has been a large amount of research into safety culture. However the concept remains largely \"ill defined\". Within the literature there are a number of varying definitions of safety culture with arguments for and against the concept. Two of the most prominent and most-commonly used definitions are those given above from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and from the UK Health and Safety Commission (HSC). However, there are some common characteristics shared by other definitions. Some characteristics associated with safety culture include the incorporation of beliefs, values and attitudes. A critical feature of safety culture is that it is shared by a group.\n\nWhen defining safety culture some authors focus on attitudes, where others see safety culture being expressed through behaviours and activities. The safety culture of an organization can be a critical influence on human performance in safety-related tasks and hence on the safety performance of the organization. Many proprietary and academic methods claim to assess safety culture, but few have been validated against actual safety performance. The vast majority of surveys examine key issues such as leadership, involvement, commitment, communication, and incident reporting. Some safety culture maturity tools are used in focus group exercises, though few of these (even the most popular) have been examined against company incident rates.\n\nAlthough there is some uncertainty and ambiguity in defining safety culture, there is no uncertainty over the relevance or significance of the concept. Mearns et al. stated that \"safety culture is an important concept that forms the environment within which individual safety attitudes develop and persist and safety behaviours are promoted\". With every major disaster, considerable resources are allocated to identify factors that might have contributed to the outcome of the event. Consideration of the considerable detail revealed by inquiries into such disasters is invaluable in identifying generic factors that \"make organisations vulnerable to failures\" From such inquiries, a pattern emerges; organizational accidents are not a result of randomly coinciding \"operator error\", chance environmental or technical failures alone. Rather, the disasters are a result of a breakdown in the organization's policies and procedures that were established to deal with safety, and the breakdown flows from inadequate attention being paid to safety issues. In the UK, investigations into incidents such as the sinking of the MS Herald of Free Enterprise passenger ferry (Sheen, 1987), the Kings Cross underground station fire (1987) and the Piper Alpha oil platform explosion (1988) raised awareness of the effect of organisational, managerial and human factors on safety outcomes, and the decisive effect of 'safety culture' on those factors. In the US, similar issues were found to underlie the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, subsequent investigation of which identified that cultural issues had influenced numerous \"flawed\" decisions on behalf of NASA and Thiokol management that had contributed to the disaster. The lesson drawn from the UK disasters was that, \"It is essential to create a corporate atmosphere or culture in which safety is understood to be and is accepted as, the number one priority.\"\n\nFrom public enquiries it has become evident that a broken safety vulture is responsible for many of the major process safety disasters that have taken place around the world over the past 20 years or so. Typical features related to these disasters are where there had been a culture of:\n\n\"Tough guy\" attributes like unwillingness to admit ignorance, admit mistakes, or ask for help can undermine safety culture and productivity, by interfering with exchange of useful information. A Harvard Business School study found an intervention to improve the culture at Shell Oil during the construction of the Ursa tension leg platform contributed to increased productivity and an 84% lower accident rate. After a number of Korean Air crashes, and particularly after the Korean Air Cargo Flight 8509 crash, a December 1999 review found that a culture of overly strong hierarchichy (influenced in general Korean culture by Confucianism) prevented subordinates from speaking up in safety-critical situations. The airline's safety record later improved considerably.\n\nReason considers an ideal safety culture \"the ‘engine’ that drives the system towards the goal of sustaining the maximum resistance towards its operational hazards\" regardless of current commercial concerns or leadership style. This requires a constant high level of respect for anything that might defeat safety systems and ‘not forgetting to be afraid’. Complex systems with defence-in-depth (such as would be expected for a major hazard plant) become opaque to most if not all of their managers and operators. Their design should ensure that no single failure will lead to an accident, or even to a revealed near-miss, and there are no timely reminders to be afraid. For such systems, Reason argues, there is an ‘absence of sufficient accidents to steer by’ and the desired state of ‘intelligent and respectful wariness’ will be lost unless sustained by the collection, analysis and dissemination of knowledge from incidents and revealed near misses. It is very dangerous to think that an organization is safe because no information is saying otherwise, but it is also very easy. An organisation that underestimates danger will be insufficiently concerned about poor working conditions, poor working practices, poor equipment reliability, and even identified deficiencies in the defences-in-depth: the plant is still safe ‘by massive margins’, so why rock the boat? Hence, without conscious efforts to prevent it, complex systems with major hazards are both particularly vulnerable to (and particularly prone to develop) a poor safety culture.\n\nE. Scott Geller has written of a \"total safety culture\" (TSC) achieved through implementing applied behavioral techniques.\n\nOver the years, a lot of attention has focused on the causes of occupational incidents. When incidents occur in the workplace it is important to understand what factors (human, technical, organizational) may have contributed to the outcome in order to avoid similar incidents in the future. Through developing an understanding of why and how incidents occur, appropriate methods for incident prevention can be developed (Williamson and Feyer 2002). In the past, improvement in workplace safety or in the control of workplace risks has come about through the provision of safer machinery or processes, the better training of employees, and the introduction of formal safety management systems. Consequently, (some argue) in a workplace that has benefited from these improvements, many of the residual workplace accidents result from operator error — one or more operators doing a job differently from the safe way they were trained to. Hence, there is now a move to apply the concept of safety culture at the individual level; worker behaviour is influenced by the safety culture of an organization, so safety culture could affect the worker injury rate. Although the overall culture of an organization may affect the behaviour of employees, much research has focused on the effect of more localised factors (i.e. supervisors, interpretation of safety policies) in the specific culture of individual workplaces, leading to the concept of a \"Local safety climate, which is more susceptible to transition and change\". This would also suggest that safety climate operates on a different level than safety culture. Mearns et al. note that although safety culture was a concept originally used to describe the inadequacies of safety management that result in major disasters, that the concept is now being applied to explain accidents at the individual level, although as they emphasize, \"The validity of the safety culture concept with regard to individual accidents is yet to be ascertained.\" (p. 643).\n\nPidgeon and O’Leary argue \"a ‘good’ safety culture might reflect and be promoted by four factors \nOnly two of those factors fall within a management system, and leadership as well as management is necessary.\n\nSeveral papers (e.g., for the UK offshore oil industry -Mearns et al. (2000)) have sought to identify specific safety management practices that predict (conventional) safety performance. Shannon (1998) gives details of many reported surveys in Canada and the US and reports the conclusions of \nShannon et al. (1997). reviewing them. Variables consistently related to lower injury rates included both those specified by a safety management system and purely cultural factors.\nControl of major accident hazards requires a specific focus on process-safety management over and above conventional safety management, and Anderson (2004) has expressed concern at the implications for management of major hazards of the extension of the \"safety culture\" concept to justify behavioural safety initiatives to reduce injury (or lost-time accident) rates by improving safety culture. He argues that \"loss of containment\" rates on major hazard sites give a good indication of how well the major accident risks are managed; UK studies show no significant correlation with \"lost time accident\" rates. Furthermore, behavioural safety has come to be targeted on reducing the propensity for error of front line staff by getting them to be more careful; UK studies have shown that the vast majority of frontline errors are not free-standing, but are triggered by preceding errors by more senior grades. (In a study of over 700 loss-of-containment events in the 1990s - of 110 incidents due to maintenance, only 17 were due to a failure to ensure that planned maintenance procedures were followed: 93 were due to a failure by the organisation to provide adequate maintenance procedures. Under 6% of incidents were due to front-line personnel deliberately not following procedures.). There can be no objection to behavioural safety initiatives to reduce the rate of lost-time accidents, provided that they do not divert effort from the management of major hazards and that a low lost-time accident rate does not give rise to unwarranted complacency about the major hazard.\n\nThe tools used to assess safety culture are normally questionnaires. Due to differences of national and organizational cultures, as well as different approaches in studies and researches, many types of safety culture questionnaires have emerged. For example, in oil companies a safety culture questionnaire was developed in UK. Another questionnaire in the same field was developed in Iran.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4350309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4350309", "title": "Social Policy (Basic Aims and Standards) Convention, 1962", "text": "Social Policy (Basic Aims and Standards) Convention, 1962\n\nSocial Policy (Basic Aims and Standards) Convention, 1962 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1962, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals concerning the revision of the Social Policy (Non-Metropolitan Territories) Convention, 1947, which is the tenth item on the agenda of the Session, primarily with a view to making its continued application and ratification possible for independent States...\n\nAs of the end of 2015, the treaty has been ratified by 33 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "22474423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22474423", "title": "The Prosperous Few and the Restless Many", "text": "The Prosperous Few and the Restless Many\n\nThe Prosperous Few and the Restless Many is a short book compiling three revised interviews of the United States academic Noam Chomsky by David Barsamian, originally conducted on December 16, 1992, January 14 and 21 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "23902498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23902498", "title": "Titan traffic database", "text": "Titan traffic database\n\nThe Titan traffic database is a database allegedly in use by the Swedish signals intelligence agency, the National Defence Radio Establishment (FRA), according to a news report by \"Rapport\" on SVT in June 2008, based on an account from an anonymous source. The source alleged the agency had been storing \"massive amounts of information\" about \"who have been talking to whom, but no content\"; leading to a private citizen lodging a complaint with the police. Ultimately, a prosecutor did not launch a full-scale investigation, as it was deemed not illegal at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "8644954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8644954", "title": "USDA Rural Development", "text": "USDA Rural Development\n\nUSDA Office of Rural Development (RD) is an agency with the United States Department of Agriculture which runs programs intended to improve the economy and quality of life in rural America.\n\nRural Development has a loan portfolio over $224.5 billion, and administers nearly $16 billion in program loans, loan guarantees, and grants through their programs. Rural Development promotes economic development by supporting loans to businesses through banks, credit unions and community-managed lending pools. It offers technical assistance and information to help agricultural producers and cooperatives get started and improve the effectiveness of their operations. Rural Development also provides technical assistance to help communities undertake community empowerment programs and helps rural residents buy or rent safe, affordable housing and make health and safety repairs to their homes.\n\nThe Rural Development Administration (RDA) was a USDA agency established by the 1990 farm bill (P.L. 101-624, Sec. 2302), amending the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.), to administer FmHA community and business programs and other USDA rural development programs. RDA was superseded by the Office of Rural Development following the 1994 reorganization of USDA authorized by P.L. 103-354.\n\nOn October 13, 1994, the Department of Agriculture was reorganized under the Federal Crop Insurance Reform Act of 1994 and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994. Under that act, USDA Rural Development was created to administer the former Farmers Home Administration's (FmHA) non-farm financial programs for rural housing, community facilities, water and waste disposal, and rural businesses. The former Rural Electrification Administration's (REA) utility programs were also consolidated within Rural Development. The current leader of Rural Development is Assistant to the Secretary Anne Hazlett.\n\n"}
{"id": "1735624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1735624", "title": "Voter database", "text": "Voter database\n\nA voter database is a database containing information on voters for the purpose of assisting a political party or an individual politician, in their Get out the vote (GOTV) efforts and other areas of the campaign.\n\nIn most countries, the election agency makes the electoral roll available to all campaigns soon after the election campaign has begun. Campaigns can then merge this information with the other data they have collected on voters over the years to create their database. Often basic information such as phone numbers and postal codes are not included on the voters list, and the campaign will have to procure this data as well.\n\nThe United States does not have a federal election agency, and thus has no official national voter list. In 2002, the United States Congress passed the Help America Vote Act (HAVA). HAVA required that each state compile an official state voter database by January 2006. Most states complied with HAVA by gathering the voter files available from each individual county. States decided what information to include, what restrictions to place on the use of their voter database, and how much the database would cost. In the United States, several companies have merged state voter information with commercially obtained data to create comprehensive voter databases that include a plethora of personal details on each voter. These companies often provide United States Voter Files to statutorily permitted or otherwise non-restricted users.\n\nThe voter database is central to many parts of a campaign:\n\nPersonal data frequently included in a voter database:\n\n\nData that may be added via commercial routes:\n\n\nThe use of voter databases has been established in political campaigns from local school board to national elections:\n\nIn the 2004 presidential election in the United States, the Republican Party used the Voter Vault platform and the Democratic Party used DataMart. Currently, the Republicans use rVotes Data Center and the Democrats use Votebuilder from the Voter Activation Network (VAN). There are non-partisan firms that offer registered voter data in the United States, too: NationBuilder, Aristotle, eMerges and Labels and Lists.\n\nIn 2015, a database of 191 million U.S. voters was exposed on the internet and included names, addresses, birth dates, party affiliations, phone numbers and emails of voters in all 50 U.S. states and Washington.\n\nSince the beginning of 2015 the British Conservative Party has used an online database called Votesource which is a centrally held database that local activists administer. The database merges both the membership database and the electoral roll and the centralised nature of it means the party can build demographic models based on Mosaic in to it to identify voters who are more likely to support the party at an election. The system is not without criticism and faced particular problems during the 2015 General Election and the primary to select the Conservative candidate for 2016 London Mayoral Election. A similar system with a similar Mosaic-based demographic model was used by Britain Stronger in Europe during the 2016 EU referendum.\n\nFrom 2009 to the end of 2014 the Conservative Party used a system called MERLIN (Managing Elector Relationships through Local Information Networks) which was a national database accessible by every local Conservative Association in the country. This was commissioned in 2005, and went live in 2008.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s to 2009 the Conservative Party used a programme called BlueChip which was a programme held on individual Conservative Association computers. BlueChip was not a nationally centralised database and it relied entirely on local activists maintaining it and updating it. For the 2005 General Election the party incorporated a national model called Voter Vault into the BlueChip system for the first time to direct canvassers towards voters based on demographics.\n\nBritain's Labour Party has used a variety of voter databases through the past two decades. Its most recent incarnation is the Labour Contact Creator system, an online tool accessible from anywhere with an internet connection. Party members and activists are provided with a username and password and voter contact details, preferences, interests, past voting behaviour, and demographic/socio-economic information are available. The system allows voters to be selected on the basis of a MOSAIC grouping, which attempts to determine the sort of interests and activities a voter or a household might display. Maps of where key voters live and information can be cross-referenced so users can find where target voters live, how often they are contacted, how they prefer to be contacted, and what responses have been provided upon making contact.\n\nThe Contact Creator system is also linked with the Labour Party's other new media tools, Print Creator and Email Creator. Print Creator allows key voters identified through Contact Creator to be targeted with direct mails and leaflets about Labour Party activity. Email Creator allows the user to collect a list of email addresses on the Contact Creator system, e-mail thousands of voters, and monitor the response rate from targets.\n\nThe Labour Party also operates 'Membersnet', which allows party members to update their registration details, inform other members and Party HQ of rival campaign activities, create events and invite others to attend, email members, create blogs, and share best practice campaign material.\n\nThe Labour Party introduced a new system to Membersnet and Contact Creator in 2013, focusing on a new user-friendly interface, which allows Party Members anywhere in the UK to contact target voters and identify their voting preferences. They will then be able to enter the information gained directly into the Contact Creator system.\n\nIn late 2011 Liberal Democrats began to adopt the use of a variant of NGP VAN's Voter Activation Network (VAN) software named \"Connect\". This firm also supplies \"Votebuilder\" and VAN to the Democrats in the USA and to the Liberal Party of Canada as \"Liberalist\".\n\nIn 2016 Vote Leave built a bespoke database called VICS (Voting Intention Collection System) which was an online database that local activists used for canvassing and Get Out the Vote operations. The VICS system was the first of its kind to incorporate a geographic street-based reactive demographic model which directed activists towards streets likely to support leaving the European Union. As canvass returns were entered into VICS the model reacted to adjust which streets were priorities so it became more accurate based on actual canvass returns rather than relying solely on demographic modelling. The VICS system was widely credited with the success of Vote Leave's campaign.\n\nIn Canada, the Conservative Party of Canada developed their in-house software C-VOTE database, which replaced their previous system Constituent Information Management System (CIMS). After major flaws arose in 2013 over C-VOTE (including not being able to identify undecided Voters), the Conservative Party switched back to CIMS for the 2015 election. CIMS was originally developed by the same company which produced Trackright, which the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario, used to manage voter information prior to the 2011 election, before switching to CIMS as well. It is similar to the Voter Vault software. The New Democratic Party uses their own custom database system called Populus. Previously the NDP used a system called NDP Vote. The Liberal Party has recently introduced \"Liberalist\" based on the US's Democrats' Voter Activation Network (VAN) Previously the Liberals used a system called ManagElect.\n\nThe availability of voter files sometimes creates a need for voter list management software as opposed to, for example, using Excel spreadsheets. Political campaigns generally have three options:\n\n\n"}
