{"id": "17126916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17126916", "title": "Academia de Artes", "text": "Academia de Artes\n\nThe Academia de Artes (AA) is the Mexican Academy of Arts founded 1967/1968 by CONACULTA for the promotion of Mexican art. Seat of the institution is the Museo Nacional de San Carlos in Mexico City. The Slogan of the Acadademy is \"elevación por el arte\" (\"elevation/refinement through art\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4761027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4761027", "title": "Allan Gurganus", "text": "Allan Gurganus\n\nAllan Gurganus is an American novelist, short story writer, and essayist whose work, which includes \"Oldest Living Confederate Widow Tells All\" and \"Local Souls,\" is often influenced by and set in his native North Carolina.\n\nGurganus was born in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. He first trained as a painter, studying at the University of Pennsylvania and the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. He served three years as a message decoder with the United States Navy during the Vietnam War, as a punishment for draft evasion, and began writing during his time on the \"USS Yorktown\". He achieved the rank petty officer second class. Following military service, he graduated from Sarah Lawrence College where he studied with Grace Paley. He studied with John Cheever, John Irving and Stanley Elkin at the University of Iowa in the Iowa Writers' Workshop. Cheever sold Gurganus's short story \"Minor Heroism\" to \"The New Yorker\" without telling Gurganus beforehand. It was the first story \"The New Yorker\" had ever published about a homosexual character (the magazine's founder Harold Ross had instructed his staff that there was no such thing as a homosexual). Gurganus himself is a gay man.\n\nIn addition to later teaching at both Sarah Lawrence and the Iowa Writers' Workshop, he has also taught at Stanford and Duke Universities.\n\nHis best known work is his 1989 debut novel, \"Oldest Living Confederate Widow Tells All\", which was on the New York Times Best Seller list for eight months. It won the Sue Kaufman Prize from The American Academy of Arts and Letters, was a main selection of the Book-of-the-Month Club, and sold over four million copies. It was made into a CBS television play, with Cicely Tyson winning one of its four Emmy Awards as best supporting actress in the role of the freed slave Castalia. The novel was also adapted for a one-woman Broadway play, starring Ellen Burstyn, in 2003.\n\nGurganus's other works include \"White People\", a collection of short stories and novellas; \"Plays Well with Others\", a novel; and \"The Practical Heart\", a collection of four novellas, which won a 2001 Lambda Literary Award in the Gay Men's Fiction category. His shorter fiction has been published in \"The New Yorker\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", and \"The Paris Review\", in addition to being included in the \"O. Henry Prize Collection\" and the \"Norton Anthology of Short Fiction\".\n\nAfter living in New York City for a number of years, Gurganus returned to North Carolina, where he co-founded the political group Writers Against Jesse Helms and, as a result, appeared as himself in Tim Kirkman's 1998 documentary \"Dear Jesse\". Gurganus has also taken a position against the Iraq War, most notably by citing his Vietnam War experience in an essay published in \"The New York Times Magazine\", \"The War at Home\", published April 6, 2003, a few weeks after the invasion. Gurganus was also the inaugural guest editor of \"New Stories From the South\", an annual collection of notable fiction by Southern writers published by Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, in 2006.\n\nHe is the recipient of an Ingram Merrill Award and a 2006 Guggenheim fellowship.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54719678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54719678", "title": "Anna Baright Curry", "text": "Anna Baright Curry\n\nAnna Baright Curry (1854-1924) was a noted educator and the founder of Curry College in Milton, Massachusetts.\n\nAnna Baright was born on June 19, 1854, to a Quaker family in Poughkeepsie, New York. Most of her family members were art lovers; the stage actress Julia Dean was her aunt. \n\nAfter graduating from Cook's Collegiate Institute in 1873, she worked briefly as a teacher in New York state, then taught elocution at Milwaukee Female College. In 1875 she enrolled in Boston University's School of Oratory, where one of her teachers was Alexander Graham Bell. At B.U. she was described by one of her professors as \"the greatest woman reader in the country.\" This was a significant compliment in an era of oratory when speakers such as Charles Dickens and Mark Twain were paid thousands to read lengthy pieces of their work. Baright graduated with honors in 1877. \n\nAfter graduation she was appointed First Assistant to Lewis Baxter Monroe, Dean of the School of Oratory. In 1879, she and Monroe were planning to open a summer school for oratory on Martha's Vineyard when Monroe died. Rather than cancel, Baright successfully ran the five-week program herself. It was the first summer school of its kind in the country. That fall, Samuel Silas Curry took over the leadership of the Boston University School of Oratory. \n\nEncouraged by Boston University's first president, William F. Warren, Baright started her own school in downtown Boston that fall. The School of Elocution and Expression offered a two-year program modeled after that of the B.U. oratory school. Baright based her teaching on Monroe's principle that \"expression is the outward manifestation of that which is already in the consciousness.\" Professor J. W. Churchill called her \"the greatest woman teacher of elocution in the country.\"\n\nIn 1882, Baright married Samuel Silas Curry and became Anna Baright Curry. In 1885, the school was renamed the School of Expression, and Samuel Silas Curry became the head of the school with Anna Baright Curry serving as Dean. Former Boston University School of Oratory professor and telephone inventor Alexander Graham Bell became the school's first chancellor from 1907 until his death in 1922. The Currys ran the school until their respective deaths in 1921 and 1924. Years later, the school was renamed Curry College in their honor.\n\nBaright and Curry married on May 31, 1882. The couple had six children, one of whom was the noted mathematician Haskell Curry. Baright Curry was a member of the New England Women's Club, the Cantabrigia Club, and the Boston Browning Society. She died in Boston in 1924.\n\n"}
{"id": "35004888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35004888", "title": "Association of Independent Maryland and DC Schools", "text": "Association of Independent Maryland and DC Schools\n\nThe Association of Independent Maryland and DC Schools is an American nonprofit education organization representing 120 independent schools in the US state of Maryland and the District of Columbia. Based in Glen Burnie, Maryland, it was founded in 1967 as the Association of Independent Maryland Schools (AIMS) and is a member of the National Association of Independent Schools (NAIS) and the NAIS Commission on Accreditation. \n\nThe Association provides accreditation services for its member schools as well as support for professional and institutional development. It also organizes regional Admissions Fairs, and it acts as a public advocate for the independence of its members from government regulation. \nThe 120 schools accredited by the Association of Independent Maryland and DC Schools include:\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "55715165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55715165", "title": "Bouli Ali Diallo", "text": "Bouli Ali Diallo\n\nBouli Ali Diallo (born 1948) is a Nigerien academic and activist.\n\nAli Diallo attended a number of teaching institutions early in her education, including the teachers' school Cours Normal at Tillabéri, which at the time accepted only women as students. She next attended the University of Dakar, where she studied chemistry and biology and earned a doctorate in applied microbiology in 1978, and the Science and Technology University of Languedoc in Montpellier, from which she earned her \"doctorat d'État\" in applied entomology in 1991. She then returned to Niger to teach biology at Abdou Moumouni University, a job which she had first taken in 1978. She has served in numerous administrative roles at the school as well; from 1987 to 1993 she was director of external relations, from 1993 to 1995 vice-rector, and from 1999 to 2005 rector. In addition, she was minister of national education in 1995 and 1996, and served as vice-president of the African Virtual University from 2002 until 2004. She has also been a member of the boards of the Institut de recherche pour le développement and the NGO Aide et Action, and from 1999 to 2004 presided over the Forum for African Women Educationalists, whose Nigerien chapter she founded. Ali Diallo has received numerous awards from France during her career, including the Ordre des Palmes Académiques, of which she is an officer, for her academic achievements. She has remained an activist in Niger, speaking on the need to develop educational opportunities for women.\n"}
{"id": "46569510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46569510", "title": "British International School of Zagreb", "text": "British International School of Zagreb\n\nThe British International School of Zagreb (BISZ) is a British international school in Zagreb, Croatia. It is a sister institution of the \"Kreativan razvoj\" Primary School. First opening on September 2, 2013, the school is scheduled to include years 1-13.\n\n"}
{"id": "32043056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32043056", "title": "Buke (China)", "text": "Buke (China)\n\nBuke () in the high school of mainland China refers to the social phenomenon of extra study for the improvement of students’ academic performance in National Higher Education Entrance Examination (commonly known as \"Gaokao\") in the form of extra mandatory classes organized by high schools or private tutoring provided by cram school.\n\nGenerally, Buke in high schools of mainland China are of two types:\n\n\nAlmost every year the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China issues official documents which emphasize the prohibition of any forms of \"Buke\" organized by state-run schools. In Opinions Concerning the Implementation of the Compulsory Education Law to further regulate which was issued after the emendation of the Compulsory Education Law in 2006, the Ministry of Education points out that it is banned for teachers in state-run schools to encourage either intramural or extramural \"Buke\". And Teachers’ devotion in the extramural Buke in their part-time is also strongly opposed.\n\nDespite the prohibition of \"Buke\" by state-run schools, in mainland there is no national regulation for \"Buke\" organized by private-run schools or educational establishments, however the regulations made by some local governments at different levels did affect them. In February 2015, Wenzhou City Board of Education issued Disposal Options of Wenzhou for Primary and Secondary School Teachers in Paid Buke, for teacher’s attendance in paid \"Buke\" is officially considered an unprofessional conduct. For the first time this regulation relate to the in-service teachers in private-run primary and secondary schools, hence it is called “the toughest regulation on Buke”. According to a clerk working in an educational establishment, the in-service teachers in Wenzhou no longer attend extramural Buke after the implementation of the disposal options.\n\nWhile some parents, student and educators support \"buke\" for the opportunity to retain learning through holidays and to work out difficult problems for which there is not time during normal classes, others oppose the practice as overly stressing academic performance and increasing stress on students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59017637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59017637", "title": "Carolina Malpica Munguía", "text": "Carolina Malpica Munguía\n\nCarolina Malpica Munguía (January 14, 1891 – May 25, 1977) was an educator and community activist in San Antonio, Texas, founding Círculo Social Feminino México to help Mexican and Mexican-American women. She was the first Mexican woman on the radio in San Antonio, with her program \"La Estrella\" airing on KONO.\n\nCarolina Malpica de Munguía was born in Puebla, Mexico on January 14, 1891 to her father Patricio Malpica. Her father was widowed, and sent her to Instituto Normal Metodista for schooling, which was a Methodist school even though she was Catholic. At the institute she was taught how to be a teacher and graduated in 1911, and later worked in an elementary school in Mexico. Malpica de Munguía took graduate classes in English, then became a principal at a Methodist School in Orizaba, Veracruz. The school closed due to the Mexican Revolution, so Malpica de Munguía started her own school in Puebla, Mexico where she taught fourth and fifth grade before its closure. It was after this that she became the primary school inspector or supervisor for the city of Puebla.\n\nCarolina’s career as an educator ended when she married José Rómulo Munguía Torres in 1916. The couple had seven children and remained married until their deaths. Due to Carolina’s husband’s status as a revolutionary, the family were exiled from Mexico, leading to the family moving in 1926 to San Antonio, Texas.\n\nIn 1932 Carolina became the first Mexican Woman on the radio with her program “La Estrella” that was aired on KONO. “La Estrella” was started to help promote the Mexican culture in San Antonio, which it did by connecting with the listeners through music and books. After the success of the radio program Carolina helped her husband establish his own printing business in the 1930s called Munguía Printers which was a family affair. In her early years in San Antonio Carolina taught Spanish at the Wesleyan Institute, which later became Trinity University, until her family grew too large for her to keep a career. Additionally, in this time she washed and shelled pecans in the Munguía home.\n\nAfter finding economic stability for the Munguía family in San Antonio, Carolina decided to become an activist for the Mexican community, or La Raza. She did this by starting on June 12, 1938 Círculo Social Feminino, México, later renamed to Circulo Cultural \"Isabel, La Catolica,\" which was a designed to help lower middle-class to working-class Mexican and Mexican American women. The slogan for the organization was “Toda por la patria y el hogar,” or All for country and home, which was designed around the revitalization of the Mexican and Mexican American community. Circulo Cultural participated in many community projects like taking in donations for the poor, celebrating Mexican holidays, volunteering at the Mexican Consulate and Clinic, putting on cultural events, and raising money for community outreach. For the organization, Carolina provided two Mexican-origin lawyers to answer any legal questions that members of the Circulo Cultural might have. The organization was only active for sixteen months, and disbanded in the early 1940s. In 1938 she started participating with Asociación de la Biblioteca Mexicana, which was a project of the Mexican Consulate.\n\nCarolina Malpica de Munguía’s next role of a community Activist was through the Spanish-Speaking PTA. She served in the Crockett Latin American Parent-Teachers Association, which she was the Secretary in 1937 and the President in 1938. The Spanish-Speaking PTA was created so that Spanish-speaking Parents could bring their concerns and ideas to the teachers in order for the students’ education to improve. Because of community need Carolina improved Crockett Elementary School to meet those needs. The Great Depression was going on at this time so students were going to school hungry, dirty, poorly clothed, and sick or injured. To meet these needs a dining room was opened, showers were created, sewing circles were organized, and medical attention were given to students. Carolina had additional needs met through the Home of Neighborly Service Center, who fed children, and Mexican American barbers, who gave children free haircuts. Throughout the entire time she served at Crockett she had the Spanish Speaking PTA raise money for clothes and shoes for the students, while creating Christmas baskets for the families of students. In 1940 and 1941 she moved up in the organization and became the head of the Spanish Speaking Department of the San Antonio PTA Council in District 5, and in this position she looked after the Spanish-Speaking PTAs in District 5, gave speeches at seven schools, participated in Executive PTA Board meetings, founded a Spanish-Speaking PTA chapter at T. J. Brackenridge, and visited the PTA state convention to showcase work done by Spanish speaking students. She joined the American Red Cross because four of her sons were fighting in World War II.\n\nMalpica de Munguía helped her husband start El Patronato in 1944, which was an organization that was built around the idea of the Spanish Language. El Patronato helped to create the Universidad Autónoma de México in San Antonio. This was not the last of Carolina’s activist work.\n\nLater in life she participated in the Shrine of the Little Flower, which was devoted to St. Thérese of Lisieux, and was a Catholic organization. She was never a United States citizen, but she was the grandmother of Henry Cisneros, who became the first Mexican-American mayor of San Antonio. She died May 25, 1977 in San Antonio, Texas.\n"}
{"id": "19633402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19633402", "title": "Chitwan English Boarding School", "text": "Chitwan English Boarding School\n\nChitwan English Secondary Boarding School is a school in the Chitwan District of Nepal.\n\nThe founders of the school are Keshav Shrestha and Gayatri Shrestha. It is abbreviated as CESBS or CEBS. It is one of the premier schools of the Chitwan district. CESBS was established in the year 2040 BS (1983 AD).\n"}
{"id": "22698608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22698608", "title": "Cluster Fellowship", "text": "Cluster Fellowship\n\nCLUSTER, abbreviation of Collaboration for Leadership in Urban Science Teaching, Evaluation, and Research. It is a collaboration among the City College of New York (CCNY), the New York Hall of Science (NYHoS) and the Center for Advanced Study in Education at the City University of New York (CUNY). The fellowship is supported by the National Science Foundation.\n\nThe CLUSTER fellowship is opened to undergraduate science degree-seeking students who have a strong desire for teaching and learning. Prospective fellows should consult their advisers in their majors before applying as the fellowship is coursework and time demanding.\n\n"}
{"id": "55121665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55121665", "title": "Dorak affair", "text": "Dorak affair\n\nThe Dorak affair was a scandal concerning a group of antiquities from the Yortan culture, the so-called \"Dorak Treasure\", which took place in the 1950s and 1960s in Turkey and centred on the British archaeologist James Mellaart.\n\nAccording to Mellaart, he encountered a young lady called Anna Papastrati on a train from Istanbul to Izmir and noticed that she was wearing an unusual armband. She is meant to have told him that this armband was part of a collection of antiquities, which was in the possession of her family. He therefore went to the house of Papastrati, who according to him was a young Greek lady and spoke good English with a slight American accent. There she showed him numerous pieces which were stylistically associated with the Yortan culture. The Yortan culture was one of the cultures which neighboured ancient Troy. Mellaart stayed several days in the house at Izmir, making sketches and notes. Photography of the pieces was forbidden, according to Mellaart. Papastrati promised to photograph the pieces herself at the next opportunity and send the photos to him. The items were said to have been found in shallow graves near the city of Dorak, south of the Sea of Marmara, during the Greco-Turkish War. Mellaart reported that he had seen photographs of the graves in which the Dorak treasure had been found and that there was a description of the discovery in Modern Greek, which he had also seen. Mellaart said he left the house after a few days without correctly noting its location, although he noted a name and address (\"Anna Papastrati, 217 Kazim Direk Street, Izmir\") on a piece of notepaper. No communication was received subsequently from Papastrati. Mellaart said that he did not make the discovery public at first because he was waiting for the photos and consent to publication. He said he had written to Izmir twice without receiving an answer. \n\nIn mid-October 1958, a letter was received by the British Institute of Archaeology in Ankara, where Mellaart was deputy director. It read:\nThe letter was dated \"18/10/1958\" and the return to sender address was \"Kazim Direk Caddesi no. 217, Karsiyaka – Izmir.\"\n\nMellaart then published his sketches and notes on the finds in \"The Illustrated London News\". Discussing their significance in the article, Mellaart drew parallels with the Treasure of Ur.\n\nInvestigations by the Turkish authorities and by journalists revealed, however, that the address on Kazim Direk Caddesi belonged to a commercial building in a street which had no residential houses. However, there were at least two other streets of the same name in Izmir at that time, and the street might have been renamed. At any rate, the address could not be located. The pieces which Mellaart had described, never appeared in private collections or on the legal art market.\n\nIn 1962, a press campaign began in Turkey, in which Mellaart was charged with smuggling the treasure, in exchange for a cut worth 240 million Deutsche Marks. There was eye-witness testimony that a thick-set foreigner had been seen near the find location at Dorak with a woman. One witness even identified Mellaart himself. In 1964, public pressure reached such a point that the Turkish government forbid Mellaart from excavating at Çatalhöyük and they finally allowed him to enter Turkey in 1965, on condition that he would participate only as an assistant.\n\nThere are various views about the reality behind the Dorak affair. One perspective holds that Mellaart, who was known only in relation to the excavations at Çatalhöyük, had invented the treasure himself. The supposed letter from Anna Papastrati has similarities with the typewriter used by his wife in the institute and for his other correspondence at that time.\n\nAnother opinion connects the American accent of \"Anna Papastrati\" with the US base at Izmir or with employment at a CIA operation there. In the late 1960s, this was known as a key point for smuggling of items out of Turkey for the illegal art market. In this view, Mellaart was used to provide high-value finds of the Yortan culture with a history from a renowned expert. In this view, the meeting with Mellaart on the train was intentionally arranged and he was then played by criminals.\n\nPosthumously, Mellaart has been implicated in several cases of fabrication of archeological finds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38806323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38806323", "title": "Facultades de Filosofía y Teología de San Miguel", "text": "Facultades de Filosofía y Teología de San Miguel\n\nFacultades de Filosofía y Teología de San Miguel (English: Philosophical and Theological Faculty of San Miguel) is a Jesuit university and seminary in San Miguel, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. \n\nSan Miguel was initially founded in 1918 in Santa Fe and in 1923 was moved to Buenos Aires. The university has two campuses, USAL Universidad del Salvador and Centro Loyola.\n\nIn 1932, the university received authorization from the Holy See to award ecclesiastical degrees in philosophy and theology, from bachelor through licentiate and doctorate. For many years it was the only university in South America authorized to confer pontifical degrees in philosophy and theology, and so drew students from Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Bolivia, Chile, Peru, Brazil, and Mexico.\n\nPope Francis from 1967 to 1970 studied theology at the Faculty of Theology \"San José\" School of San Miguel, where he had received a licentiate in philosophy and now received also a licentiate in theology. While master of novices at Villa Barilari in San Miguel (1972-1973) he served as a professor in the Faculty of Theology and rector of the College, until he became Provincial Superior of the Argentine Jesuits in 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "755234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=755234", "title": "Feodor Lynen", "text": "Feodor Lynen\n\nFeodor Felix Konrad Lynen (6 April 19116 August 1979) was a German biochemist. In 1964 he won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine together with Konrad Bloch for their discoveries concerning the mechanism and regulation of cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism while he was director of the Max-Planck Institute for Cellular Chemistry in Munich.\n\nFeodor Lynen was born in Munich on 6 April 1911. He started his studies at the chemistry department of Munich University in 1930 and graduated in March 1937 under Heinrich Wieland with the work: \"On the Toxic Substances in Amanita\". Lynen remained in Germany throughout World War II. In 1942 he became a chemistry lecturer at the Munich University. In 1947 he became an assistant professor and in 1953 a professor of biochemistry. From 1954 onwards he was director of the Max-Planck Institute for Cellular Chemistry in Munich, a position which was created for him at the instigation of two senior scientists, Otto Warburg and Otto Hahn. In 1972, that institute was merged into the newly founded Max-Planck Institute of Biochemistry in 1972. Also in 1972, Lynen was named President of the Gesellschaft Deutscher Chemiker (GDCh).\n\nIn 1964 he won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine together with Konrad Bloch for their discoveries concerning the mechanism and regulation of cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism. These discoveries took many years to work out. The Nobel Committee felt that this was important because understanding the metabolism of sterols and fatty acids could reveal how cholesterol affects heart disease and stroke. His Nobel Lecture on 11 December 1964 was 'The pathway from \"activated acetic acid\" to the terpenes and fatty acids'.\n\nWorking mostly separately, Lynen and Bloch both discovered the steps that created squalene and turned the squalene into cholesterol. Initially, Lynen found that acetate activated by Coenzyme A was needed to start the process. He discovered the chemical structure of acetyl-coenzyme A, which was needed for a detailed understanding of the biochemical pathways. He also learned that biotin, or Vitamin B7, was needed for in the process.\n\nOn 14 May 1937, Lynen married Eva Wieland (1915-2002), daughter of his academic teacher. They had five children between 1938 and 1946. Feodor Lynen died in Munich, Germany, on 6 August 1979, six weeks after an operation for aneurism.\n\nThe Alexander von Humboldt Foundation has a fellowship named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2541921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2541921", "title": "Free Geek", "text": "Free Geek\n\nFree Geek was founded as a non-profit organization by Oso Martin, and launched on Earth Day 2000 as part of a community-wide public event at Pioneer Courthouse Square in downtown Portland, Oregon. In September of that year Free Geek opened the doors to their facility on Southeast 10th Avenue as a recycling/reuse dropoff for electronic waste. In January 2001, The \"Oregonian\" ran an article advertising their free computer program for volunteers, which immediately became so successful that they had to start a waiting list. They currently have over 2,000 active volunteers per year.\n\nOver the past 17 years, Free Geek has expanded to fill its 22,000 square-foot home and grown into a community education hub, adding classes, internships, outreach programs, and free technology to low-income individuals and nonprofits to their ongoing commitment to sustainable reuse and recycling. Since their founding, they have:\n\nFree Geek offers a wide range of free classes to its volunteers and to the general public. These classes generally fall into a few major categories including basic computer use, advanced computer courses, digital arts creation, digital nativity/online safety, and workplace readiness. Free Geek also offers phone and drop-in technical support on specific days of the week for the computers it produces.\n\nPeople who wish to volunteer at Free Geek's community technology center usually choose between two programs: the Build Program and the Adoption Program. The Adoption Program allows volunteers to get to work immediately on relatively simple tasks, such as keeping incoming equipment organized or sorting metals and plastics. In the Build Program, volunteers learn while they work, and are trained to build refurbished computers. Volunteers completing the Adoption Program are given a computer after 24 hours of volunteering (one free computer per year) while the Build Program volunteers get to keep the sixth computer they build.\n\nFree Geek has numerous other programs, which are generally run by interns, longer-serving volunteers and staff members. A few examples: The Hardware Grants program reviews requests for computer equipment from schools, churches, non-profit and community change organizations. The Reuse program works to ensure that reuse is prioritized over recycling, and finds new ways to get equipment into the hands of people who will put it to use. The Technocrats oversee the network infrastructure of the organization.\n\nFree Geek is committed to keeping Oregon green. Raw materials are processed by volunteers in their warehouse, where approximately 40% of it is restored into usable technology. Some of it is sold, either online or in their Southeast Portland store, where proceeds support educational and outreach programs. Any materials which cannot be reused are recycled to the highest ethical, safety and sustainability standards, preventing it from entering our waste stream and poisoning the environment. Free Geek also donates refurbished computers and technology directly back into the community; in 2017, for example, Free Geek was able to give away six laptop computers for every ten sold in the Free Geek Store. In 2016 Free Geek donated 4,400 refurbished items of technology back to the community, providing free computers to low-income individuals, schools and nonprofit partners throughout the Portland Metro area and beyond.\n\nFree Geek is committed to providing free technology equipment and support to organizations working hard to make the Portland community a better place. The Hardware Grant Program connects qualifying nonprofits and schools with refurbished desktop computers, laptops, printers, and other equipment. Since their inception, they have granted more than 10,500 items to a total of over 2,000 nonprofits such as Black Lives Matter (Vancouver, WA), Bradley-Angle House, Habitat for Humanity, Hacienda CDC, Home Forward, KBOO Community Radio, Northwest Children's Theatre and School, Oxford House and Street Roots. 60% of grantees are based in the Portland Metro area; between 2012 and 2017, 25% of hardware grants went to schools or educational nonprofits, 18% to human services, 13% to arts & culture, 10% to community development, and the rest to a host of other sectors such as civil rights, animal welfare, health, faith-based organizations, and the environment.\n\nVolunteers are the backbone of work at Free Geek, making the massive e-waste recycling operation possible. Since the founding in 2000, over 20,500 volunteers passed through the doors. In 2016 alone, over 2,000 active volunteers and interns gave more than 47,500 hours of their time to Free Geek.\n\nThe Volunteer Adoption Program offers a free computer to every volunteer after 24 hours of volunteer time. Each year Free Geek disburses around 550 computers (complete with monitor, speakers, keyboard, and mouse) specifically to volunteers who have completed their 24 hours of service. Many volunteers are low-income individuals who otherwise would not have the opportunity to own their own computer. To ensure that everyone has equal access, Free Geek works with each volunteer to accommodate a wide range of abilities, offering opportunities for people of all ages, from youth to senior citizens; of all backgrounds and experience levels, including those with little to no previous computer experience; volunteers in wheelchairs, with physical disabilities or with other specific accessibility needs; volunteers with developmental disabilities or who are on the autism spectrum or otherwise non-neurotypical; and volunteers who are most comfortable communicating in Spanish.\n\nFree Geek also offers custom-tailored 3- to 6-month internship programs for skilled volunteers 16 years and up, designed to help develop vital job skills to help them pursue tech sector careers and make connections in the community.\n\nFounded in 2014, Plug Into Portland grew out of a collaborative partnership between Free Geek and Portland Public Schools, which expanded in 2017 to cover other Metro-area school districts such as Washington, Reynolds, David Douglas, and the Vancouver, WA area. This program addresses the digital literacy gap which hinders low-income K-12 students’ inability to learn because they do not have access to a computer at home. Students who volunteer for a total of 24 hours at any nonprofit organization in their community receive a free computer from Free Geek. Plug Into Portland is focused on quickly and easily getting computers into family homes, allowing students access to the technology they need to succeed in school and the means for their families to be involved in that success. This program served approximately 100 low-income students and families in 2016.\n\nAccording to a 2014 Broadband Adoption Survey, at least 15% of Portland-area residents do not have internet access at home, while at least 10% do not even have access to a computer. This population largely consists of vulnerable and at-risk communities: low-income families, youth, seniors, people of color, immigrants and refugees, people with disabilities, and English language learners. Lack of basic computer skills puts these populations at a stark disadvantage. In 2016, in partnership with the Multnomah County Library and a diverse group of community partners – including MetroEast Community Media, Home Forward, Human Solutions, Hacienda CDC, The Olseth Family Foundation, and NTEN (the Nonprofit Technology Network) – Free Geek launched the first cohort of our Earn-a-Computer (EAC) program, a five-week culturally-specific digital literacy curriculum designed to bring these vital skills directly into the communities who need them most and have least access to them.\n\nFree Geek works with low-income housing community partners to identify and recruit cohorts of ten residents at a time, primarily elderly and immigrant populations who have little to no experience with computers. They offer as many options as possible to eliminate potential barriers to access and learning; they serve participants in their own neighborhoods, provide free food and childcare when needed, and offer both class instruction and written support materials in multiple languages, including English, Spanish, Kurdish, Somali and Russian. Over the course of four classes, participants learn to navigate the web, send their first email, and access ongoing resources like computer classes at the library and Free Geek. Each participant receives a free personal computer; during the final class, they help familiarize participants with their new technology, show them how to access free tech support from Free Geek, and make referrals to low-cost internet services.\n\nIn its first year, EAC provided over 1,500 teaching hours to over 150 students, grouped in cohorts of ten to allow for personalized instruction. Of those students, 87% were English language learners, 54% had no high school diploma or GED, and 95% had a household income of less than $30,000.\n\nFree Geek offers a wide and diverse range of free educational offerings that demystify technology and empower the community with the technology skills they need to succeed in all areas of life. Community partners in this work include ChickTech, Girls Inc., Impact NW, Oregon City Public Library, PLUG (Portland Linux-Unix Group) and Thinkful, who provide classes and workshops to participants in Free Geek’s educational programs. In basic digital literacy classes, Free Geek and volunteer instructors help individuals reach their own goals with technology; in more specialized offerings, Free Geek fosters the imagination of community members, sparks their interest in technology, and builds confidence that anyone can learn and work with computers. Current classes and workshops include such topics as \"Anatomy of a Computer,\" programming with JavaScript and Python, web development, social media for organizations, data science, digital privacy and safety, graphic design and digital art. in 2016 Free Geek served nearly 1,700 students with over 4,000 classroom hours of instruction.\n\nFree Geek's refurbished computers run Linux Mint, Ubuntu or other free and open-source software. The use of free software has several major benefits to the organization, and to the recipients of equipment: Free Geek operates without needing to devote resources to managing software licenses, and may install software where it is needed with minimal complications from legal considerations; and computer recipients get a wide range of software, which they may easily expand without paying money or entering into restrictive contracts.\n\nFree Geek was the joint winner of the first Chris Nicol FOSS Prize awarded by the Association for Progressive Communications (APC) in 2007.\n\nIn addition to Portland, a number of other cities have started their own Free Geek organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39101824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39101824", "title": "History Trek", "text": "History Trek\n\nHistory Trek: A Canadian History Site is a bilingual (French and English) web portal made for children, containing reliable sources about Canadian history. It was developed by researchers at McGill University with the help of students who ranged from 9 to 12 years of age. This is an example of an intergenerational design team, directly involving a sample of their user population within their team. As such, History Trek was designed \"by children for children\".\n\nThe development of History Trek was funded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada and took place between 2002 and 2007. The intergenerational design team, called the \"Web Wonders\", consisted of McGill researchers and a sample of student users. This design \"team was led by Andrew Large and Jamshid Beheshti\" whose primary goal was to make an informational portal website that children would both want to use and know how to use. Potential users were included in the History Trek development process to determine the visual design, use of terminology, and methods of information retrieval.\n\nBased on the research done during development, and in order to support both information retrieval and browsing, History Trek incorporated four methods to retrieve information:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23377119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23377119", "title": "Hochschule für Musik Carl Maria von Weber", "text": "Hochschule für Musik Carl Maria von Weber\n\nThe \"Carl Maria von Weber\" College of Music (Hochschule für Musik \"Carl Maria von Weber\" in German, and also/formerly known as Dresden Conservatory or Dresden Royal Conservatory) is a college of music in Dresden, Germany.\n\nThe Hochschule opened on 1 February 1856 and is one of the oldest German conservatoires. Francesco Morlacchi, Carl Maria von Weber and Richard Wagner made reference to the necessity of establishing institutional training for musicians in Dresden. On 1 February 1856, a violinist of the Royal Orchestra, Friedrich Tröstler, founded the first music school in Dresden. In 1881 the title \"royal\" was granted, and it changed its name to \"Royal Conservatoire\", although it was a private institution. From 1881 till 1918 was an institution under royal patronage and from 1937 onwards under the municipal authority. The original building of the hochschule was destroyed during World War II and all teaching activities were moved to Mendelssohnalle 34. At first the university was an educational institution where the future instrumentalists of the town’s orchestra were trained. It became the Hochschule für Musik; named after Carl Maria von Weber in 1959.\n\nAll orchestral instruments, voice, piano, conducting, composition, music theory and accompaniment, as well as popular music/jazz/rock specialties can be studied at the College. Particular emphasis is placed on the education of singers and orchestral musicians. This is because of the especial relationship of the school and the Semperoper, Staatskapelle Dresden, and the Dresden Philharmonic Orchestra. The formation of singers and orchestral musicians was strongly determined by members of the Saxon State Opera, The Staatskapelle and Philharmonic orchestras working as teachers on an honorary basis. There are c. 250 public events organized and realized by students and staff and guests lecturers every year.\n\nThe Hochschule occupies two buildings in the metropolitan area of Dresden: the main building at 13 Wettiner Platz and the other on Blochmannstraße. The main building has all the facilities of a modern conservatoire, a large recital hall and several smaller ones, rehearsal and practice rooms, teaching studios, a canteen, a library and offices. A new extension to the main building, finished in 2008, houses a new 450-seat concert hall and several rehearsal and teaching rooms.\n\nWith more than 300 public concerts and opera performances every year, the Hochschule contributes greatly to the region’s cultural life and offers its students at the same time a practical artistic training. Regular artistic projects are realized especially by the Opera Class and the bigger ensembles like the hochschule's Symphony Orchestra, the School's Choir and the Bigband. The special image of the Dresden University of Music is fundamentally shaped by the close connection to Dresden’s two big orchestras, the Sächsische Staatskapelle Dresden and the Dresden Philharmonic Orchestra. Furthermore the Opera Class has a location at its disposal, which enables performances under professional conditions.\n\nFounded in 1965, but working as a different organization since 1945, the High School of Music \"Carl Maria Von Weber\" (Sächsisches Landesgymnasium für Musik \"Carl Maria von Weber\" in German) is a specialist music school for school-age children, located in Dresden. The school imparts the regular school program but great emphasis is put on individual music training, music theory classes and orchestral playing. Most instrumental teachers are also professors at the Hochschule für Musik \"Carl Maria von Weber\" or play in one of the professional orchestras of the city. The president of the school is the English conductor Sir Colin Davis. Previous patrons include Sir Yehudi Menuhin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10303847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10303847", "title": "Institute for Advanced Architecture of Catalonia", "text": "Institute for Advanced Architecture of Catalonia\n\nThe Institute for Advanced Architecture of Catalonia (; ) is an educational and research centre dedicated to the development of an architecture capable of meeting the worldwide challenges in the construction of habitability in the early 21st century.\n\nBased in the 22@ district of Barcelona, one of the world’s capitals of architecture and urbanism, IAAC is a platform for the exchange of knowledge with faculty and students from over 40 countries,\nincluding United States, China, India, Poland, Italy, Norway, Mexico and Sudan. Students work simultaneously on multiple scales (city, building, manufacturing) and in different areas of expertise (ecology, energy, digital manufacturing, new technologies), pursuing their own lines of enquiry on the way to developing an integrated set of skills with which to act effectively in their home country or globally.\n\nIAAC has carried out research projects in Brazil, Taiwan, Croatia and Romania. In 2008 it was chosen to take part in the official section of the Venice Biennale with the project Hyperhabitat and in 2010 it presented a 1:1 scale house (entirely produced at IAAC) at the Solar Decathlon Europe in Madrid where it won the Peoples Choice Award. IAAC has the most advanced digital production laboratory of any educational institution in southern Europe, with laser cutters, 3D printers, milling machines and a platform for manufacturing chips.\n\nIAAC offers two Master courses one in Advanced Architecture, and another in Advanced Interactions courses are in conjunction with the UPC Polytechnic University in addition to the Open Thesis Fabrication course. Masters is open to Masters architecture students from around the world. In addition to IAAC masters, there is the Fab Academy, offered by Fab Lab Barcelona which is hosted by IAAC, while being part of the global network of Fab Labs affiliated to MIT’s Center for Bit and Atoms.\n\nSince 2004 the IAAC has run the Self-Sufficient Housing and Self-Fab House design competitions, and later this year will present the Your City 2109 competition with the aim of generating new paradigms for architecture and the construction of the city in this time of change.\n\nLocated in Barcelona, one of the international capitals of Urbanism, the institution develops a multidisciplinary program that explores urban and international territorial phenomena, placing especial emphasis on the opportunities that emerges from developing countries and the cultural, economic and social values that architecture may contribute to society.\n\nThe main objective of the Institute for Advanced Architecture of Catalonia is to stimulate, promote and develop research on the diverse areas of advanced architecture promoting the development of knowledge in architecture and its interaction with other disciplines.\n\nSome of the most important projects and publications done by Institute for Advanced Architecture of Catalonia recently are Hipercatalunya (a research about the territory of Catalonia) The Media House (a project developed with the MIT's Media Lab) and the Metapolis Dictionary of Advanced Architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "8674811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8674811", "title": "International Confederation of Principals", "text": "International Confederation of Principals\n\nThe International Confederation of Principals (ICP) is a global association of school leadership organisations. \n\nICP was founded in 1991, and operates through a council with up to three delegates from each member organisation. This meets three times in a two-year period. Council elects an executive committee to work with and support the elected president of ICP, an executive secretary services both executive and council. ICP has over 40 members, each member being a major independent organisation that supports the professional development and work of school leaders. \nThe ICP represents school leaders across five continents; it is non-political and non-sectarian and gives a powerful international voice to school principals. Membership is open to any organisation of school leaders whose constitution contains nothing contrary to the constitution of the ICP.\n\nThe ICP Constitution has the following major goals:\n\nICP holds a biennial international convention drawing together school principals from all over the world for dialogue and professional development.\n\nPrevious conventions were held in the following locations:\n\nThe current President is Mr. Ari Pokka, Finland, and the Executive Secretary is Ms Sheree Vertigan.\n"}
{"id": "14570177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14570177", "title": "John Darwin disappearance case", "text": "John Darwin disappearance case\n\nThe John Darwin disappearance case was an investigation into the faked death of the British former teacher and prison officer John Darwin. Darwin turned up alive in December 2007, five years after he was believed to have died in a canoeing accident.\n\nJohn Darwin was arrested and charged with fraud. His wife, Anne, was also arrested and charged for helping Darwin to collect his life insurance of £25,000. The fraudulent death also allowed the couple to pay off their £130,000 mortgage. In December 2007, after it was revealed the couple had been photographed together in Panama a year earlier, Anne confessed to knowing Darwin was alive. Anne admitted that he had been secretly living in their house and the house next door, which allowed him to get the insurance money illegally for his own personal gain. On 23 July 2008 John and Anne Darwin were each sentenced to over six years' imprisonment.\n\nJohn Darwin was born on 14 August 1950, in Hartlepool, County Durham. He attended St Francis RC Grammar School and De La Salle College, Salford, Lancashire, where he studied biology and chemistry. On 22 December 1973, John Darwin married Anne Stephenson in Blackhall. Darwin then taught science and mathematics at Derwentside for 18 years before leaving to join Barclays Bank. He later became a prison officer at HM Prison Holme House. He and his wife, a doctor's receptionist, also ran a business renting bedsits in County Durham with 12 houses. They ran into debt after purchasing two houses in Seaton Carew in December 2000. The debts, amounting to \"tens of thousands of pounds\", caused Darwin to talk about faking his own death to claim the insurance by early 2002.\n\nJohn Darwin was seen paddling out to sea in his canoe on 21 March 2002, at Seaton Carew, in Hartlepool. Later the same day, he was reported as \"missing\" after failing to report to work. A large-scale sea search took place, during which of coastline were searched. There was no sign of Darwin, though a double-ended paddle was retrieved from the sea near Seaton Carew, the following day. Later on 22 March 2002, the wreckage of John Darwin's canoe was found. The North Sea was unusually calm and rescuers had been puzzled that Darwin could have got into trouble in such conditions.\n\nDuring the years that Darwin was presumed dead, he lived for some time in a bedsit next door to the family home; he then secretly moved back in with his wife Anne in February 2003. Meanwhile, a death certificate was issued stating that John Darwin had died on 21 March 2002. This allowed his wife to claim his life insurance; it is alleged that £25,000 was paid out from Unat Direct Insurance Management Limited (part of the AIG insurance group) as well as a much larger amount which paid off the £130,000 mortgage. Sometime that year, a tenant of the block of bedsit flats that the Darwins owned, Lee Wadrop, recognised Darwin and asked him \"Aren't you supposed to be dead?\" to which Darwin replied \"Don't tell anyone about this\". Wadrop later said that he had not told the police because he \"did not want to get involved\".\n\nIn 2004, the Darwin couple decided to move abroad, considering Cyprus. John Darwin applied for, and obtained a passport using the false name \"John Jones\", but using his true home address. In November 2004, the couple visited Cyprus to investigate buying property there.\n\nIn May 2005, an angler, Matt Autie, claimed to have met John Darwin—who was going under the name \"John Williams\"—at a lake near Penzance, Cornwall. When back at home, Darwin is reported to have spent most of his time on the Internet where he encountered a woman from Kansas in the United States whom he flew out to meet. By November, Darwin was back in the UK and flew from Newcastle to Gibraltar, and then travelled to El Puerto de Santa María to view a £45,000, catamaran that he was considering buying from boat dealer Robert Hopkin.\n\nOn 9 March 2006, Darwin is reported to have signed a planning objection to a neighbour's building work using a false name. Darwin and his wife began to consider Panama as a possible destination. The couple flew from Newcastle to Panama on 14 July 2006, where they were photographed by a Panamanian property agent, and the resulting photograph was posted on the Internet. In February 2007, they spent a further week in Panama. Newspapers from February 2007 were later found in the boarded-up gap between the Darwins' house and the bedsit where Darwin had hidden. In March 2007, the couple returned to Panama and formed a company called Jaguar Properties in order to buy a two-bedroom apartment in El Dorado for £50,000. The bedsit house next to the family home was sold under the name of the Darwins' son, Mark; the home had been transferred to Mark Darwin in 2006. The proceeds from the sale were then transferred to Panama.\n\nThe following month, Anne Darwin returned to the UK to sell her home while John Darwin remained in Panama. In May 2007, the couple purchased a £200,000 tropical estate in the village of Escobal, Colón, Panama, near the Panama Canal, with the intention of building a hotel from where canoeing holidays could be run. In a later interview with John Darwin, published in Elizabeth Greenwood's book \"Playing Dead\", he states that the canoe-rental aspect of this purchase was a story entirely fabricated by the media playing on the romanticism of his faked death. He and Anne Darwin visited Panama again in July 2007, staying for six weeks. A police investigation was started in September when a colleague of Anne Darwin became suspicious upon overhearing a phone conversation between the couple. The Darwin family home was sold for £295,000 in October 2007 and Anne Darwin subsequently left for Panama. In the third week of November, the couple holidayed in Costa Rica before returning to Panama. On 30 November 2007, Mrs Darwin bought an airline ticket for her husband to England because \"he was missing his sons\". On the same day, their son Mark left his property firm after working his notice period.\n\nFollowing a change in Panama's visa laws, John Darwin emailed Anne on 14 June 2007 to notify her that their identities would have to be verified by UK police in order for them to receive now-required Panamanian \"investors' visas.\" Knowing that his John Jones alias would not pass this level of scrutiny, Darwin decided to return to the United Kingdom under his real name and fake amnesia.\n\nOn 1 December 2007, Darwin walked into the West End Central police station in London, claiming to have no memory of the past five years. His wife Anne—who had sold up her British properties and moved to Panama three months before his re-appearance—expressed surprise, joy and elation at the return of her missing husband. The UK police by that time already suspected that Darwin might not be dead since Anne Darwin, despite portraying herself as a broken-hearted widow, took foreign holidays, planned to sell the family home in Hartlepool to move to Panama and transferred large sums of money abroad. A police financial investigation into the case had already begun three months prior to Darwin's reappearance, following a tip from one of Anne's colleagues connecting her claim on her husband's life insurance and her subsequent emigration to Panama.\n\nThe Darwins' cover story unravelled after the \"Daily Mirror\" published a photo of John and Anne, taken in Panama in 2006. The photograph had been discovered when a member of the public searched for the words \"John\", \"Anne\" and \"Panama\" in Google Images. The photo had been featured on the website movetopanama.com and was brought to the attention of the \"Daily Mirror\" and the Cleveland Police. Anne reportedly confirmed that the photograph was of John, saying \"Yes, that's him. My sons will never forgive me.\" The police then arrested Darwin at his son Anthony's house in Basingstoke.\n\nA police investigation discovered that John Darwin had been using a false passport by the name of \"John Jones\", an identity that had belonged to a baby from Sunderland who had died in 1950. This technique featured in the 1971 novel \"The Day of the Jackal\" by Frederick Forsyth. Upon examining the false passport, police found that Darwin had made several trips to Panama in the previous five years.\n\nJohn Darwin's two sons initially expressed elation at the return of their father, but as the story unfolded, they issued a joint statement stating they felt they had been victims of a scam and implying that they wished to have no further contact with their parents. Both sons were reported to have changed their jobs prior to their father's reappearance. On 6 December, one of John Darwin's sons allegedly disappeared after clearing out his North London flat and leaving a notebook reportedly containing coded messages for his girlfriend, as well as directions for her to get to London City Airport. Police emphasised that he was not suspected of any crime.\n\nOn 8 December, the \"Daily Mail\" quoted Anne Darwin as saying that, although she initially thought her husband was dead, he turned up at their home in 2003 and secretly lived in an adjacent bedsit that she owned for about three years. He entered the home from the bedsit through a secret hole in the wall; the hole was hidden behind a wardrobe with a false back. The article stated that, two months after he had moved back in with Anne, she was persuaded to attend an inquest into his death so she could claim the life insurance. John was pronounced dead and the life insurance company paid only half of the £50,000 policy because no body had been found. Anne said he had faked his death to escape financial difficulties arising from properties they owned. She claimed that he had decided to return publicly because he missed his sons, who had not been aware he was still alive.\n\nLater that day, Darwin was charged with obtaining life insurance money by deception and making untrue statements to obtain a passport. Anne Darwin was arrested at Manchester Airport the following day upon returning to the UK, and detained in connection with the allegations of fraud. She appeared in court on 11 December in Hartlepool to face two charges of fraud—obtaining £25,000 and £137,000 by deception. She remained in custody until 14 December. Darwin appeared at Hartlepool Magistrates' Court on 10 December, where he was also remanded in custody until 14 December.\n\nOn 14 December, Anne and John Darwin appeared separately before Hartlepool Magistrates' Court and they both were remanded in custody to appear again on 11 January 2008.\n\nOn 9 January 2008, John and Anne Darwin returned to Hartlepool Magistrates' Court to face further charges of deception. John faced an additional charge of obtaining £137,000 by deception (the same charge his wife was already facing) in addition to the existing life insurance charge against both of them for £25,000 and John's separate charge of obtaining a passport by deception. They were then both charged together from obtaining more money from a teachers' pension scheme (two separate amounts of £25,186 and £58,845), plus obtaining money from the Department for Work and Pensions (two separate amounts of £2,000 and £2,273). They were remanded in custody once more to appear in court again on 18 January 2008.\n\nOn 18 January, they each appeared separately at Hartlepool Magistrates' Court by video-link and were remanded in custody until 15 February, when they faced committal to Crown Court.\n\nOn 13 March, John Darwin admitted seven charges of obtaining cash by deception and a passport offence at Leeds Crown Court. He denied nine charges of using criminal property; these charges will remain on file, according to prosecutors. Anne Darwin denied six charges of deception and nine of using criminal property.\n\nOn 23 July 2008, John Darwin and Anne Darwin were both convicted of fraud. John Darwin faced an additional charge relating to his fake passport and was sentenced to six years and three months in prison. Anne Darwin, who was described by the police as a compulsive liar, was sentenced to six years and six months. Both appealed against their sentences and on 27 March 2009, both appeals were denied by the Court of Appeal.\n\nThe Crown Prosecution Service has vowed that all profits from the \"callous and calculated\" fraud committed by the couple will be confiscated. John Darwin was released on probation in January 2011 and Anne Darwin was released in March 2011.\n\nOn 14 February 2012, the CPS announced that the entire £501,641.39 in life insurance and pension payouts received by Anne Darwin had been recovered, part of which involved the sale of two properties in Panama. Kingsley Hyland, head of the North East CPS Complex Casework Unit, said: \"It is important that fraudsters see that not only will we prosecute them wherever possible, but we will also make every effort to retrieve their ill-gotten gains to return them to those they have defrauded.\"\n\nIn April 2014, it was reported that Darwin had repaid just £121 from the £679,073 that the judge had ordered him to repay. However, this was because all the assets were in Anne Darwin's name. By July 2015, the pair no longer had any assets, having repaid a total of £541,762.39.\n\nThe story of John and Anne Darwin was dramatised in the BBC Four programme \"Canoe Man\" in 2010. The film starred Bernard Hill and Saskia Reeves as John and Anne Darwin, respectively. Musician Martin Gordon documented the story with the song \"Panama\" from his 2009 release \"Time Gentlemen Please\". In fiction, it inspired a 2009 novel by Adrian Gere called \"Return from the Dead\", and a 2010 storyline in the ITV soap opera \"Coronation Street\" saw the character Joe McIntyre attempt the same thing. In 2015, it was mentioned in the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\" when it was revealed that the character Kathy Beale and her husband faked their deaths in South Africa for insurance payouts. The song \"Simian Son\" by Jez Lowe concerning incidents in Hartlepool references the incident. The 2018 novel \"Let Me Lie\" by Clare Mackintosh in which a husband and wife apparently commit suicide was inspired by the John Darwin story, mentioned by the Author in the Authors Notes section of the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "6802679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6802679", "title": "Kim Borg", "text": "Kim Borg\n\nKim Borg (August 7, 1919April 28, 2000) was a Finnish bass, teacher and composer. He had a wide-ranging, resonant, warm voice.\n\nKim Borg was born in Helsinki. He studied voice with Heikki Teittinen at the Sibelius Academy (1936–1941 and 1945–1947), where he also received training in theory and composition with Leo Funtek and Aarre Merikanto, and then pursued vocal studies with Andrejewa de Skilondz in Stockholm (1950–1959). He also studied biochemistry at the Helsinki University of Technology, and received a diploma in 1946.\n\nIn 1947 he made his formal concert debut in Helsinki, and in 1951 his formal operatic debut in Århus as Colline in \"La bohème\". In addition to his concert appearances, he sang regularly in opera in Helsinki and Copenhagen (1952–1970), Stockholm (1963–1975), and Hamburg (1964–1970). In October 1959 he made his Metropolitan Opera debut in New York City as Count Almaviva, remaining on its roster until 1962. In 1961 he appeared as Boris Godunov in Moscow.\n\nHe also had success in such roles as Osmin, Don Giovanni, King Marke, Hans Sachs, King Phillip II, Pimen, Gremin, Don Basilio and Arkel.\n\nRecordings of him are available as Abner in \"Saul og David\" by Carl Nielsen, Shigolch in \"Lulu\", Shchelkalov in \"Boris Godunov\", the Messenger in Orff's \"Antigonae\", and both Sarastro, the Sprecher and the Second Armed Man in \"The Magic Flute\"; also doing bass solos in Mozart's \"Requiem\", Beethoven's \"Missa Solemnis\", Verdi's \"Requiem\", Elgar's \"The Dream of Gerontius\", Rossini's \"Stabat Mater\", Dvořák's \"Stabat Mater\", and Haydn's \"The Creation\". He also left a fine recording of Mussorsky's \"Songs and Dances of Death\".\n\nIn 1962 he received the Pro Finlandia Medal of the Order of the Lion of Finland.\nHe retired from the stage in 1980. From 1972 to 1989 he was a professor at the Royal Danish Conservatory of Music in Copenhagen. He published several books, wrote orchestral compositions (Trombone Concerto, two symphonies), chamber music, a \"Stabat Mater\", and songs. He also prepared orchestrations to compositions of Mussorgsky and Hugo Wolf.\n\nHe died in Humlebæk, Denmark in April 2000, aged 80. He is buried in the Hietaniemi Cemetery in Helsinki.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57254913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57254913", "title": "Károli Gáspár University of the Reformed Church in Hungary", "text": "Károli Gáspár University of the Reformed Church in Hungary\n\nKároli Gáspár University of the Reformed Church in Hungary (Hungarian: Károli Gáspár Református Egyetem) is a Christian university in Budapest, Hungary. The university has more than 7000 students. The university has four faculties and offer courses leading to degrees at the bachelor, master and doctoral levels.\n\nVice-Rector for Strategy     = Prof. Dr. József Zsengellér\n\nVice-Rector   = Dr. Károly Bozsonyi\n\nSecretary General    = Dr. Gyula Balázs Csáki-Hatalovics\n\nDirector of finance      = Dr. Zsolt Csaba Kovács\n\n"}
{"id": "42082165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42082165", "title": "List of archives in France", "text": "List of archives in France\n\nThis is a list of archives in France.\n\n\n\"See also: and \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3366570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3366570", "title": "Live fire exercise", "text": "Live fire exercise\n\nA live-fire exercise or LFX is any military exercise in which a realistic scenario for the use of specific equipment is demonstrated. In the popular lexicon this is applied primarily to tests of weapons or weapon systems that are associated with the various branches of a nation's armed forces, although the term can be applied to the civilian arena as well.\n\nArmed services usually use live-fire exercises as an opportunity to use real ammunition in a realistically created combat situation. The area in which these tests are conducted will be devoid of people to avoid casualties, and will likely be owned by the government which authorized the test. Most live-fire tests are conducted either against derelict equipment, such as tanks and ships, or against remotely controlled drones.\n\nThe purpose of this type of exercise is twofold: First, it offers recruits the chance to get accustomed to their weapons so that they will know how to properly operate them; secondly, this provides soldiers with an opportunity to fire live ammunition without having to worry about an actual enemy returning fire. This allows soldiers to get reacquainted with the feel and time of actually using and expending ammunition, rather than simply simulating the experience. Live-fire exercises of this type can be observed either by remotely controlled cameras or by long-range telescopic devices, such as binoculars.\n\nAn army, being the main branch responsible for land combat, is perhaps the best known group that conducts live-fire exercises. Most live-fire exercises occur within the military base where the units conducting the exercise are located. In some cases, one installation will host units from another for a larger live-fire exercise. Equipment tested under these circumstances range from small arms and assault rifle fire all the way up to missile systems and artillery fire. In the case of small arms, the tests are usually proficiency based and aimed at ensuring a soldier can fire their assigned weapons. In the case of the latter, missile systems may be test-fired at remotely controlled drones to simulate a situation in which enemy missiles or aircraft are launched at allied or friendly forces, while artillery units can take the opportunity to test new shells or to fire under adverse weather conditions for a chance to see how the artillery pieces will perform.\n\nFor the most part marine corps live-fire exercises are similar to the army's live-fire exercises. One notable difference stems from the amphibious nature of a marine force's duty, which can lead the force to incorporate amphibious assault ships when they conduct live-fire exercises.\n\nAn air force, due to its nature, usually limits live-fire exercises to the air, although bombing exercises can be conducted as well.\n\nDuring live-fire exercises dealing with air-to-air combat, remotely controlled drones are frequently used to simulate enemy aircraft. In modern times, the drones are fired on by planes loaded with some type of air-to-air missile, with the objective of the exercise being to destroy the drone. These test are usually done to ensure that guidance packages within the missiles will work, although they can be done to test other factors, such as a missile's susceptibility to jamming or to see if a new type of dodging technique will work against the missiles fired.\n\nLive-fire exercises involving air-to-surface work are usually centered around precision-guided munitions. In some cases, tests involving bombs will make use of derelict buildings or, even more frequently, vehicles. Live-fire bombing exercises are usually conducted with precision-guided munitions to ensure that they work correctly, but are also used to test new and experimental weapons to ensure that they work as they were originally designed to. These test are usually monitored by chase planes and by cameras to determine if everything worked as it was originally intended to.\n\nLive-fire exercises may also be conducted against planes for the purpose of testing a plane's susceptibility to SAM sites, or as a means to test a plane's stealth features.\n\nNaval live-fire exercises may use anti-ship missiles and torpedoes, although tests involving air-to-air and air-to-surface missile, guns and bombs are not uncommon. Navies conduct live-fire exercises to test elements of an integrated defense system, such as the US Aegis; namely, its ability to track and destroy enemy anti-ship missiles. Tests can also include an integrated defense system's compatibility to fire new missiles or newer versions of the same missile. Live-fire tests are also conducted with a CIWS system, which is designed as the last line of defense for a ship. Surface ships also frequently test-fire the various guns kept and maintained aboard the vessel; these can range from sidearms and rifles up to the 16\" guns of the mothballed US s. This is done to maintain the skill and knowledge needed to operate the weapon. In the case of aircraft carriers, the pilots assigned to the carrier may conduct air-to-air and air-to-surface missile exercises similar to those of the air force; additionally, these pilots may also conduct live-fire exercises against derelict ships. Recent aircraft carriers have incorporated missile-launching systems, and have taken part in live-fire exercises involving missiles.\n\nFor submarines, both fast attack and ballistic missile (or \"boomers\"), live-fire tests may include firing sea-to-land missiles at targets on shore or launching dummy ballistic missiles; however, the most frequent live-fire exercises conducted by submarines involve firing torpedoes at a target. The best-known tests of torpedoes are those conducted against a derelict ship, typically on a ship from a navy's own mothball fleet that has become too old or obsolete to warrant maintaining. The purpose of these tests is to ensure that the torpedo will work under combat conditions, and such tests can be used to determine whether or not noisemakers or other decoys will have any effect against the unit when launched.\n\nSome forces, especially in more authoritarian societies, have also been known to use live ammunition against their own forces in military exercises, to ensure that the soldiers 'take their training seriously' and get accustomed to being shot at before facing actual enemies. This kind of fire is usually not intended to kill anyone, though practices such as firing into the ground close to a soldier going through an obstacle course pose obvious risks.\n\nGerman Waffen SS training involved the usage of live ammunition, designed to make the soldiers tougher than regular soldiers.\n\nThe Soviet Union, just after Joseph Stalin died in 1954, conducted a live nuclear test, during exercises at the Totskoye range, against soldiers at a distance believed to be safe when in trenches. Any immediate deaths can't be proven today, but Russian human rights activists assert that the long aftermath death toll is in the thousands.\n\nA similar live nuclear test was performed by the USMC Marine Corps Test Unit and US Army Armored Task Force \"Razor\" during exercise Teapot (Desert Rock VI) at the Nevada Test Site in 1955.\n\nThe British SAS and Royal Marines are also known to use live rounds, for the former during the jungle phase of training, and the latter using live rounds in their final exercise. The SAS also use live-fire in regular close quarter combat training.\n\nWeapons tests are not usually conducted by civilian agencies; however, some civilian groups do conduct live-fire tests of equipment to ensure that they work properly or to test new methods. Examples here would include law enforcement agencies (shooting ranges) and controlled explosions by demolition experts. Sometimes, historical reenactments, such as those done for the Battle of Gettysburg, will include live-fire demonstrations so the general public can observe historical equipment in action.\n\nOther types of live-fire exercises include various nuclear tests conducted by the world's nuclear powers. Also in this group are the live-fire tests of new and exotic weaponry like the Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb, or \"Mother of all Bombs\". Also numbered among the unique weapons tests are test fires of intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM) and multiple independently targetable reentry vehicles. Recently, a new addition was made to this area when live-fire tests began of the U.S. Strategic Defense Initiative, nicknamed \"Star Wars\". These live-fire tests are aimed at intercepting incoming enemy ballistic missiles before they can detonate over their designated target.\n\nIn any situation in which hazardous materials are involved there exists the potential for a mishap to occur, and when these mishaps occur the results can be as spectacular as they are deadly. All forms of ordnance contain some type of explosive charge to launch and, in most cases, detonate, a weapon. If these charges are inappropriately stored or handled the result can be serious injury or death to the person and anyone in the immediate vicinity. Other dangers include faulty guidance and sensory information, which can cause guided ordnance to inadvertently target friendly or neutral units. Advances in technology have helped to reduce, and in some cases eliminate, problems with these materials; nonetheless, extreme care must be given when using or implementing them. For example, the handling of gunpowder demands the use of gloves and an area free of static electricity and other potential sparks which could ignite the powder.\n"}
{"id": "44823474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44823474", "title": "Manuscript (publishing)", "text": "Manuscript (publishing)\n\n\"Manuscript\" is a broad concept in publishing, that can refer to one or both of the following: \n\nA manuscript is the work that an author submits to a publisher, editor, or producer for publication. Even with the advent of desktop publishing, making it possible for anyone to prepare text that appears professionally typeset, many publishers still require authors to submit manuscripts within their respective guidelines.\n\nAlthough publishers guidelines for formatting are the most critical resource for authors, style guides are also key references for authors preparing manuscripts since \"virtually all professional editors work closely with one of them in editing a manuscript for publication.\"\n\nManuscript formatting (also named standard manuscript format) depends greatly on the type of work that is being written, as well as the individual publisher, editor or producer. Writers who intend to submit a manuscript should determine what the relevant writing standards are, and follow them. Individual publishers' standards will take precedence over style guides.\n\nAn ordinary \"manuscript\" only becomes a \"publisher's preprint\" if it somehow gets distributed beyond the authors (or the occasional colleague whom they ask for advice), but the \"publisher\" here is a loose concept. Illustrating:\n\n\nIn both contexts, a future \"final print\" is planned – with better layout, proofreading and some kind of prepress proofing – that will replace the \"preprinted \"manuscript\"\".\n"}
{"id": "20608645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20608645", "title": "Martin Rieser", "text": "Martin Rieser\n\nMartin Rieser is Professor of Digital Creativity in the Institute of Creative Technologies, in De Montfort University, Leicester.\n\nJoint research Professor between the Institute of Creative Technologies and The Faculty of Art and Design at De Montfort University, his track record as a researcher and practitioner in Digital Arts stretches back to the early 1980s. Originally a graduate of English Literature and Philosophy from Bristol University, he subsequently studied Printmaking at Atelier 17 in Paris with Stanley William Hayter and then at Goldsmiths, where he also developed an abiding interest in Photography. From such an already hybrid background he moved into Computer Arts, establishing the first postgraduate course in the discipline in London in 1982.\n\nHis art practice in internet art and interactive narrative installations has been seen around the world including Milia in Cannes; Paris; The ICA London and in Germany, Montreal, Nagoya in Japan and Melbourne, Australia.\n\nHe has delivered papers on interactive narrative and exhibited at many major conferences in the field including Inter-Society for the Electronic Arts: Montreal 1995, Rotterdam 1996, Chicago 1997, Nagoya 2002, University of Oslo 2004, Siggraph, 2005, Banff Arts Centre 2005, Digital Matchmakers Trondheim 2005 Plan ICA 2005, NAI Rotterdam 2008, Intelligent Environments Seattle 2008, Locunet, University of Athens 2008, and at many other conference venues across the UK and Europe.\n\nHis interactive installations include \"Understanding Echo\" shown in Japan 2002, \"Hosts\" Bath Abbey 2006 and \"Secret Door\" Invideo Milan 2006, \"The Street\" RMIT Gallery Melbourne 2008. He is currently developing mobile artworks for Manchester and Vienna, and public installations for the new DMC in Leicester.\n\nIn 1988, he exhibited at the First International Society of Electronic Artists (FISEA) conference held in Utrecht. In 1990, created an interactive exhibition utilising giant digital panels and interactive sound installations with an accompanying multimedia program on the theme of the Electronic Forest. This was one of the first such installations of its type and prototyped the connection of such exhibitions to the internet. In 1990 he began experimenting with permanent digital ceramic printing for Public Art. \n\nIn 1992, he also directed the \"Media Myth and Mania\" section of the joint Watershed/Artec exhibition and CD publication \"From Silver to Silicon\". The latter piece has been shown at many venues around the world including Milia in Cannes; Paris; ICA and the Photographer’s Gallery, London and at ISEA Montreal. Other visual research projects included the direction of a 1995 collaboration involving five other artists (collectively known as \"Ship of Fools\") using the subject of mythologies to explore the full range of narrative and visual interfaces in interactive media in a piece called Labyrinth. This work involved drama, digital image, virtual environments, and interactive video at F-Stop Gallery in Bath and as part of the Cheltenham Literary Festival. It has been previewed at a number of venues including the Oberhausen Short Film festival in Germany and at ISEA in Montreal. His 2002 research project T\"riple Echo\" won an AHRB award and involves a three screen interactive video depicting a love triangle based on the Orpheus legends. \"Understanding Echo\", 2002 was funded by the DA2. An interactive video drama, it was shown at the Cheltenham literary festival, Watershed Bristol and at ISEA2002 in Nagoya Japan.\n\nHe took AHRB research leave in 2004-5 creating a new, large–scale locative work for Bath Abbey called \"Hosts\" which uses mobile and positional technologies combined with interactive sound and video. In 2006 he was commissioned by Electric Pavilion to create Starshed, an interactive map of the uncanny for mobile and webmedia. Also in 2006 he exhibited \"Secret Room\" at Arthotel for Invideo Festival Milan. Current research includes Vienna Underground a locative media commission for the emobilArt European workshop and \"Riverains\" for the b.Tween Festival in Manchester. He is developing two further works for the new Digital Media Centre in Leicester: \"Secret Garden\", a virtual reality opera co-authored with Andrew Hugill and \"The Street\", an interactive video wall, featured in autumn 2008 Melbourne in HEAT: The Art of Climate Change\n\nWatershed/Cambridge Darkroom residency which involved constructing a self-curating web site and multimedia piece called \"Screening the Virus\", based around publicly submitted artwork on HIV/Aids related themes. This was later short listed for a Wellcome Trust Sci-Art award. He had an Honorary Research Fellow Residency at La Trobe University Melbourne which led to his exhibiting The Street in \"HEAT: The Art of Climate Change\", an RMIT Melbourne International Exhibition Commission in 2008. Other recent commissions include \"Riverains\", a b.Tween Festival Locative commission for Exploding Narrative and the 2008 Watershed Pervasive Media commission\n\nHe has published numerous essays and books on digital art including \"New Screen Media: Cinema/ Art/Narrative\" (BFI/ZKM, 2002), which combines a DVD of current research and practice in this area together with critical essays. And has recently edited The Mobile Audience, a book on locative technology and art due out this year from Rodopi, also logged in a blog: \n\nHe has also acted as consultant to bodies such as Cardiff Bay Arts Trust and the Photographer’s Gallery London, Arkive in Bristol, The Soros Media Institute in Prague and UIAH in Helsinki.\n\nHe has experience of curation and judging through number of other international exhibitions in electronic art, including \"The Electronic Eye\" European Digital Art at Watershed 1986, the first International survey exhibition of Digital Printmaking: \"The Electronic Print\", Arnolfini in Bristol 1989. Arcade 2- 1997, Arcade 3 2000, He helped to make a successful lottery bid to fund a national digital arts initiative Imag@nation subsequently transformed into DA2: an arts initiative promoting digital art practice nationally, and internationally.\n\nConference proceedings\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9110324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9110324", "title": "Mitchell J. Nathan", "text": "Mitchell J. Nathan\n\nMitchell J. Nathan is Full Professor of Educational Psychology, Chair of the Learning Science program in the School of Education at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, and a researcher at the Wisconsin Center for Education Research.\n\nNathan uses experimental design and video based discourse analysis methods to study learning and teaching in school settings. His research investigates the role of prior knowledge and invented strategies in the development of algebraic thinking, the notion of Expert Blind Spot to explain teachers' instructional decision making, and how teachers use gestures, embodiment and objects to convey abstract ideas during instruction. \nHe is principal researcher for the STAAR project (Supporting the Transition from Arithmetic to Algebraic Reasoning) funded through the IERI program by the National Science Foundation, U.S. Department of Education’s Institute for Educational Sciences, and National Institutes of Health-NICHD), and has secured over $10 million in research funds as a PI or co-PI.\n\nHe has published over 50 peer-reviewed papers in his subject; the most cited one has been cited 316 times according to Google Scholar.\n\nAlibali, M. W. & Nathan, M. J. (2007). Teachers' gestures as a means of scaffolding students' understanding: Evidence from an early algebra lesson. In Goldman, R., Pea, R., Barron, B. J., and Derry, S. (Eds.) Video Research in the Learning Sciences (pp. 349–365). Mah Wah, NJ: Erlbaum.\n\nNathan, M. J. & Kim, S. (2007). Pattern generalization with graphs and words: A cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis of middle school students’ representational fluency. Mathematical Thinking and Learning, 9(3), 193-219.\n\nNathan, M. J. & Koellner, K. (2007). A framework for understanding and cultivating the transition from arithmetic to algebraic reasoning. Mathematical Thinking and Learning. 9(3), 179-192.\n\nNathan, M. J. & Jackson, K. (2006). Reframing the role of Boolean classes in qualitative research from an embodied cognition perspective. In S. Barab, K. Hay, & D. Hickey (Eds.) Proceedings of the International Conference on the Learning Sciences (pp. 502–508). Mah Wah, NJ: Erlbaum.\n\nKoedinger, K. R. & Nathan, M. J. (2004). The real story behind story problems: Effects of representations on quantitative reasoning. Journal of the Learning Sciences, 13(2), 129-164.\n\nNathan, M. J. & Petrosino, A. J. (2003). Expert blind spot among preservice teachers. American Educational Research Journal. 40(4), 905-928.\n\nNathan, M. J. & Knuth, E. (2003). A study of whole classroom mathematical discourse and teacher change. Cognition and Instruction. 21(2), 175-207.\n\nNathan, M. J. (2002). Mathematics Learning: Algebra. In James W. Guthrie (Ed.) Encyclopedia of Education, Second Edition (Vol. 5, pp. 1542–1545). New York: Macmillan Reference USA.\n\nNathan, M. J., Long, S. D., & Alibali, M. W. (2002). The symbol precedence view of mathematical development: A corpus analysis of the rhetorical structure of algebra textbooks. Discourse Processes, 33(1), 1-21.\n\nNathan, M. J., Koedinger, K. R., & Alibali, M. W. (2001). Expert blind spot: When content knowledge eclipses pedagogical content knowledge. In L. Chen et al. (Eds.), Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Cognitive Science. (pp. 644–648). Beijing, China: USTC Press.\n\nNathan, M. J. & Robinson, C. (2001). Considerations of learning and learning research: Revisiting the “Media effects” debate. Journal of Interactive Learning Research, 12, 69-88. (formerly Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Education).\n\nNathan, M. J., and Koedinger, K. R. (2000). An investigation of teachers’ beliefs of students’ algebra development. Cognition and Instruction, 18(2), 209-237.\n\nNathan, M. J., and Koedinger, K. R. (2000). Teachers’ and researchers’ beliefs about the development of algebraic reasoning. Journal for Research in Mathematics Education, 31, 168-190.\n\nNathan, M. J., and Koedinger, K. R. (2000). Moving beyond teachers' intuitive beliefs about algebra learning. Mathematics Teacher, 93, 218-223.\n\nNathan, M. J. (1998). The impact of theories of learning on learning environment design. Interactive Learning Environments, 5, 135-160.\n\nCognition and Technology Group at Vanderbilt (1997). The Jasper Project: Lessons in Curriculum, Instruction, Assessment, and Professional Development. Mah Wah, NJ: Erlbaum.\n\nNathan, M. J., Bransford, J. D., Brophy, S., Garrison, S., Goldman, S. R., Kantor, R. J., Vye, N., J., & Williams, S. (1994). Multimedia journal articles: Promises, pitfalls and recommendations. Educational Media International, 31, 265-273\n\nTabachneck, H. T., Koedinger, K., & Nathan, M. J. (1994). Toward a theoretical account of strategy use and sense-making in mathematics problem solving. Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society (pp. 836–841). Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum.\n\nKintsch, W., Britton, B.K., Fletcher, C.R., Kintsch, E., Mannes, S.M., & Nathan, M.J. (1993). A comprehension-based approach to learning and understanding. The Psychology of Learning and Motivation, 30, 165-214.\n\nNathan, M. J., Kintsch, W., & Young, E. (1992). A theory of algebra word problem comprehension and its implications for the design of computer learning environments. Cognition and Instruction, 9(4). 329-389.\n\nMagee, M. and Nathan, M. (1987). A viewpoint-independent modeling approach to object recognition. IEEE Journal of Robotics and Automation, 3(4). 351-356.\n\n"}
{"id": "33918236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33918236", "title": "National Apprenticeship Service", "text": "National Apprenticeship Service\n\nThe National Apprenticeship Service, part of the Skills Funding Agency, is a government agency that coordinates apprenticeships in England, enabling young people to enter the skilled trades.\n\nAt the beginning of February 2008 the Labour Government published a document called \"Strategy for the Future of Apprenticeships in England\". It introduced a quango, the National Apprenticeship Service. The National Skills Director of the Learning and Skills Council was to be in charge of the NAS. The LSC at the time had had most of its funding farmed out to local authorities. The NAS was to be part of the LSC, as outlined in the government's 2008 document on apprenticeships. Two new divisions in the LSC were formed at the same time - one for young people headed by Rob Wye, and one for adult education and training headed by Chris Roberts. All of the three new divisions were still at this stage part of the LSC, and not separate entities. At the time six government agencies had some responsibility for apprenticeships, but there was no overall leadership.\n\nAt the time of its formation, the Labour Government up to that point had been heavily focused on persuading 50% of under-18s to attend university. In other European countries, much more focus is placed on apprenticeships; only 6% of English companies offer apprenticeships compared to 30% in Germany. In England, those who by age of 25 had been on an apprenticeship are likely to earn much more than those who do not, for similar qualifications (£100,000 over a career). A university degree is often quoted as improving earning potential, but is highly dependent on choice of degree, and apprenticeships have a much higher success rate on earning potential.\n\n"}
{"id": "377973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377973", "title": "National academy", "text": "National academy\n\nA national academy is an organizational body, usually operating with state financial support and approval, that co-ordinates scholarly research activities and standards for academic disciplines, most frequently in the sciences but also the humanities. Typically the country's learned societies in individual disciplines will liaise with or be co-ordinated by the national academy. National academies play an important organizational role in academic exchanges and collaborations between countries.\n\nThe extent of official recognition of national academies varies between countries. In some cases they are explicitly or de facto an arm of government; in others, as in the United Kingdom, they are voluntary, non-profit bodies with which government has agreed to negotiate, and which may receive government financial support while retaining substantial independence. In the countries of the former Soviet Union, and in the People's Republic of China, the national academies have considerable power over policy and personnel in their areas. There is however a growing consensus among international federations of learned academies that bona fide national (or learned) academies need to adhere to certain criteria:\n\nIn some countries, a single academy covers all disciplines; an example is France.\nIn others, there are several academies, which work together more or less closely; for example, Australia. In many states they are organized in Academies of Science.\n\n\nWithin most countries, the unqualified phrase \"National Academy\" will normally refer to that country's academy. For example, within the United States, the plural phrase \"National Academies\" is widely understood to refer to the U.S. National Academies.\n"}
{"id": "10048832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10048832", "title": "New Government Degree College, Rajshahi", "text": "New Government Degree College, Rajshahi\n\nNew Govt. Degree College, Rajshahi () is a government-sponsored independent college. It is in Rajshahi, Bangladesh.\n\nThis is one of the most advanced higher secondary institute in Bangladesh and one of the most advanced college of northern Bangladesh. This college was established in 1966. Since then it has been offering undergraduate programs and graduate programs under Bangladesh National University.\n\nThe college is mainly reputed for its outstanding results in H.S.C. (Higher Secondary Certificate) exams. In H.S.C. 2012 among the first top 10 colleges to attain highest G.P.A. 5.00 it was the only college outside Dhaka. The students who passed H.S.C. from here have remarkable achievement in their professional life.\n\nThe college has an organisation named Youth Writers Forum which is organised by its students.\n\nArts Faculty:\nScience Faculty:\njibangla\n\n"}
{"id": "7743965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7743965", "title": "Oliver Elton", "text": "Oliver Elton\n\nOliver Elton (3 June 1861 – 4 June 1945) was an English literary scholar whose works include \"A Survey of English Literature (1730 - 1880)\" in six volumes, criticism, biography, and translations from several languages including Icelandic and Russian. He was King Alfred Professor of English at Liverpool University. He also helped set up the Department of English at the University of the Punjab, Lahore, Pakistan.\n\nBorn at Holt, Norfolk, on 3 June 1861, Elton was the only child of Sarah and the Reverend Charles Allen Elton (1820–1887), the headmaster of Gresham's School, where Oliver was taught by his father until he proceeded to Marlborough College and Corpus Christi College, Oxford, where he was a scholar from 1880 to 1885. He graduated with a BA with first class honours in \"Literae Humaniores\" in 1884.\n\nHis friends at Oxford included Leonard Huxley, Michael Sadler and Dugald Sutherland MacColl, whose sister he later married.\n\nElton's first work was as a tutor and lecturer in London, while preparing school editions of Shakespeare and Milton. He translated Einar Hafliðason's \"Laurentius Saga\" as \"The Life of Laurence Bishop of Hólar in Iceland\" (Lárentíus Kálfsson) into English. In this he was encouraged by Frederick York Powell, whose biography Elton would later publish in 1906.\n\nIn 1890 he went as a lecturer to Owens College, Manchester, remaining for ten years. During his time there he published a translation of nine of the books of the \"Gesta Danorum\" by \"Saxo Grammaticus\", a study of Michael Drayton, and \"The Augustan Ages\" (1899) which brought him recognition from the academic literary world. Meanwhile, he got to know Charles Edward Montague and wrote for the \"Manchester Guardian\".\n\nHe went to Liverpool in 1901 as Professor of English Literature and stayed till his retirement in 1925. While there, he completed two thirds (four volumes) of his \"Survey of English Literature\" and lectured and wrote on Milton, Tennyson, Henry James, Chekhov and others.\n\nAfter retirement he went to Harvard as a visiting professor and later settled in Oxford. He completed the \"Survey of English Literature\", and published a book on English poetry: \"The English Muse: a Sketch\" (1933). He also continued an interest in Russian and other Slavic literature (mainly Serbian) which had begun during the first world war, and published further translations, notably of Pushkin's Eugene Onegin (1937).\n\nElton's encyclopedic range is impressive and George Sampson, in the \"Cambridge History of English Literature\", brackets him with two of his contemporaries who were also \"scholars on the heroic scale of learning \": William Paton Ker and George Saintsbury.\n\nIn 1888 Elton married Letitia Maynard MacColl, the sister of his Oxford friend Dugald Sutherland MacColl. Letitia became a children's writer. They had three sons, one of whom was the biologist Charles Sutherland Elton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47887903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47887903", "title": "Open Roberta", "text": "Open Roberta\n\nOpen Roberta is the name of a project within the German education initiative \"Roberta—Learning with robots\", initiated by Fraunhofer IAIS, which is an institute belonging to the Fraunhofer Society. With Open Roberta Fraunhofer IAIS is looking to encourage kids to code by using robots e.g. Lego Mindstorms, and other programmable hardware systems e.g. Arduino, BBC micro:bit, Calliope mini. The Cloud-approach of the Open Roberta Lab makes programming easier and minimizes the hurdles for teachers and schools to teach how to code. Open Roberta is free and does not require any installation. The project was initially founded with €1Mio by Google.org\n\nOpen Roberta Lab is cloud-based programming environment and is the user-facing middleware in a chain of software and firmware bits that make a robot work in a classroom environment. This environment allows children and young people with no technical pre-knowledge to program a LEGO MINDSTORMS EV3 and NXT robot, as well as the Arduino based robot Bot'n Roll ONE A, the BBC micro:bit, and the Calliope mini. As of the release 2.3.0, the microboard B-O-B-3 and as of the release 3.0 the microboards Arduino Uno, Arduino Nano and Arduino Mega can also be programmed using Open Roberta. There is a variety of different program blocks available to program the motors, sensors, and the EV3 brick. Open Roberta Lab uses the approach of visual programming. This approach makes it easier - especially for beginners with no experience - to learn how to code. As a cloud based programming environment no installation is needed, any operation system and computer hardware device may be used.\nThe big advantage of Open Roberta Lab is, that it can be used with any device (PC, tablet, smartphone) and with any operating system (Mac OS, Windows, Linux). Only a web browser is needed. The Lab can be used without registration. No user account is needed. As of the release 2.2.1, the linux-based operating system EV3dev is officially supported for the LEGO MINDSTORMS EV3 robot. Open Roberta Lab is available in the following languages: Catalan, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Turkish.\n\nThe programming platform Open Roberta Lab is open source developed. Both the software as well as the open source development tools are available on a server of Fraunhofer Society. The development team at Fraunhofer works together with teachers and education experts from the Roberta network. Therefore, also universities and students are involved in the development. It should address especially female students - the guiding principle of the Roberta project.\n\nNEPO is a free open source meta programming language that can be used by students, scholars, teachers, and other interested persons within the Open Roberta Lab. NEPO translates to New Easy Programming Online (or simply OPEN read backwards). NEPO is how we call our graphical programming language and its coupled hardware connection layer. NEPO uses the freely available Blockly library. In addition within NEPO there are additional functionalities and improvements have been adapted for Open Roberta. The programming paradigm of NEPO is inspired by Scratch from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A NEPO block always represents and encapsulates a certain robot functionality. A blocks feature set can easily be recognized through the associated block category, for example »sensors«. Programming with NEPO follows a simple principle. The blocks are interconnected and will be executed by the robot according to their order. This principle is called »sequential operation«.\n\nAll available blocks are listed and categorized as the Action, Sensors, Control, Logic, Math, Text, Colours, Variables, Functions, and Massages as shown in the table below.\n\nDepending on the block different values can be passed to a block. The type of the value can be identified by the colored compounds (called including »connectors«) of a block. In the chapter »block category« you can see the different values a block may have. Only if the colors of the input and the output connector match, these blocks can be connected.\n\nA block may optionally also pass a value (only one!) to another block. These blocks have colored output connectors. Only if the colors of the input and the output connector are the same, these blocks can be connected.\nIn total there are six input and output types within NEPO. These types can have the following values:\n\nSince version beta 1.3.0 the Open Roberta Lab also offers a simulation environment. This is a simulation of a two-dimensional robot model equipped with two wheels (differential drive). To program the simulated robot also the programming language NEPO may be used. The simulated 2D model includes the simulation of an ultrasonic sensor, a touch sensor, a color sensor and the display of an LED. In addition, different environments can be chosen. Since version beta 1.4.0 NEPO blocks can used without any changes for the 2D-Simulation and the real robot.\n\nAs of the release 2.3.0, the „Gallery“ is available allowing users to share own programs with everyone else. Logged-in users with a verified account can do that by clicking “edit” in the menu bar, followed by a click on the menu point “my programs”. In the following overview of the programs saved online, they then just have to click on the gallery-icon on the right-hand side. \n\nIn order to load a program off the Gallery, users – logged in or not – double-click on the chosen program and are then able to view, change or download its content.\n\nOpen Roberta is a technological extension of the \"Roberta concept\". Roberta (short for: \"Roberta - Learning with robots\") is a Fraunhofer education initiative founded in 2002 by the Germany Ministry of Education and Research. Since 2002 more than 350.000 students participated in Roberta courses.\n\nOpen Roberta won the award \"Bundessieger 2015\" at the challenge \"Germany Land of Ideas\" in the category education. Open Roberta won the bitkom award d-elina in the category professional.\n\n"}
{"id": "3969051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3969051", "title": "Pedro Romeiras", "text": "Pedro Romeiras\n\nPedro Romeiras (born 3 July 1961 in Lisbon) started his career as a soloist with the National Ballet of Portugal after finishing ballet studies at the Royal Ballet School. He is a gold medal winner of the \"II Prix Français de la Danse 1982\" and won a National Globe Award as best dancer of 1982. Romeiras has danced many glamorous principal roles of classical repertoire ballets such as \"Siegfried\" in the full length version of Swan Lake, \"Basilio\" in Don Quixote, \"Jean de Brienne\" in Raymonda, \"Romeo\" in Romeo and Juliet, \"The Poet\" in Les Sylphides, and many others. Romeiras has worked and been a guest at the Dutch National Ballet and Ballet D'el Teatro Municipal as a dancer, ballet master, and choreographer.\n"}
{"id": "30638534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30638534", "title": "Planetario di Milano", "text": "Planetario di Milano\n\nThe Milan Planetarium (in Italian, Planetario di Milano) is the largest and most important planetarium in Italy. It is located in the Gardens of Porta Venezia, in the Porta Venezia district of Milan. It was established in 1930, and has been in operation since then.\n\nThe Planetarium building was inaugurated on May 20, 1930. It was designed by architect Piero Portaluppi for Ulrico Hoepli, who donated it to Milan. It has an octagonal base and it is 19.6 meters in diameter, with an overall capacity of 300 seats. The dome-shaped screen is decorated with the silhouette of the Milan skyline as it was in 1930 (for example, without the Pirelli Tower).\n\nThe scene is created by a Zeiss IV star projector, which has been in use since 1968.\n\nThe Planetarium has about 100,000 visitors a year. It also serves as the headquarters of the Circolo Astrofili di Milano, the oldest and most important amateur astronomy club in Milan.\n\n"}
{"id": "22161827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22161827", "title": "Project Aladdin", "text": "Project Aladdin\n\nProject Aladdin is a multi-faceted cultural initiative launched in March 2009 under the patronage of UNESCO with the aim of countering Holocaust denial and all forms of racism and intolerance, while promoting intercultural dialogue, particularly among Muslims and Jews. The project was initiated by the Fondation pour la Mémoire de la Shoah, a French foundation dedicated to keeping alive the memory of the Holocaust.\n\nThe Project's sponsors include President of France Jacques Chirac, and Prince Hassan bin Talal of Jordan and former German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, who are also on the Project's \"Board of Distinguished Patrons.\" Other members of the Board include former Indonesian President Abdurrahman Wahid, and former Mauritanian President Ely Ould Mohamed Vall.\n\nMore than 500 distinguished figures from Europe, North America and the Muslim world have joined the project by declaring their support for its fundamental text, \"A Call to Conscience\". They include statesmen, parliamentarians, religious figures, intellectuals, historians, academics, authors, artists and civil society actors of different faiths and cultures.\n\nIn its effort to promote knowledge as a bridge between cultures, the Aladdin Project has set up a multilingual website in English, French, Arabic, Persian and Turkish that contains information on the Holocaust, as well as a basic introduction to Jewish faith, history and culture and an overview of historical relations between Jews and Muslims in different countries.\n\nA tenet of the project is its online library, where books in Arabic and Persian can be downloaded free of charge. The first collection includes the first-ever translation into Arabic and Persian of such classics as Anne Frank's Diary and Primo Levi's \"Survival in Auschwitz\". In line with the project's expressed purpose of helping to \"bring about a dialogue based on knowledge and mutual respect,\" the fast-expanding library is set to also include works of authors from the Muslim world translated into English and French.\n\nThe Aladdin Project was officially launched on March 27, 2009, at the UNESCO headquarters in Paris. In an unprecedented event, the Heads of State of Egypt, Morocco, Qatar, Tunisia and Bosnia and the governments of Turkey and Spain sent high-level representatives to join Senegalese President Abdoulaye Wade, former French President Jacques Chirac and other dignitaries from Europe and the Muslim world to hail the Aladdin Project, reject Holocaust denial, and embark on a Jewish-Muslim dialogue based on mutual knowledge and mutual respect.\n\nThe conference was opened by UNESCO Director General Koichiro Matsuura, who praised the project, saying that \"UNESCO offers its support to this initiative, in the hope that it will enhance in a durable manner educational means for peace and tolerance.\" David de Rothschild, President of the Shoah Memorial Foundation, outlined the broad themes of the project and its objectives. Other speakers included President Wade of Senegal, André Azoulay, Counselor to the King of Morocco, Ahmed Toufiq, Minister of Islamic Affairs, both representing King Mohammed VI, Qatar's Khalid bin Muhammad al-Atiyah, Minister for International Cooperation, representing Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, the Emir of Qatar, Egypt's Farouk Hosny, Minister of Culture, representing President Hosni Mubarak, Tunisia's Prof. M'hamed Hassine Fantar representing President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, and Bahrain's Princess Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa, a former president of the United Nations General Assembly. Also present on behalf of their respective governments were Mustafa Ceric, the Grand Mufti of Bosnia, and Professor İlber Ortaylı, a distinguished Turkish historian and president of the Topkapı Museum in Istanbul.\n\nOther notables who came from far away to be present at the conference included Abdou Filali-Ansari representing Aga Khan IV, former Tunisian Prime Ministers Hédi Baccouche and Mohammed Mzali, Egypt's Aly El Samman, a veteran proponent of interfaith dialogue and advisor to the late President Anwar El Sadat, Ahmed Aboutaleb, the Mayor of Rotterdam, Gul Khan, the Lord Mayor of Nottingham, Iranian theologian Ayatollah Ahmad Iravani, Hélé Béji, president of the International College of Tunis, and Pakistani-born British Mufti Abduljalil Sajid.\n\nIn a message to the conference read on his behalf by French Justice Minister Rachida Dati, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France said, \"The strength of the Aladdin Project is to extend a hand to those who have been handicapped by prejudices, ignorance, or simply a lack of accessible information; to expose the lies and clear up the misunderstandings; to open up a new horizon for our common future. I share, unreservedly, this fundamental intuition of the Aladdin Project, for I am convinced that peace between peoples can only be based on mutual understanding and respect, and these are acquired in knowing and interacting with the other side.\"\n\nFormer American President Bill Clinton praised Project Aladdin, saying that it \"has the potential to play a vital role in countering denial with facts and putting a human face on something that otherwise might seem too terrible to believe.\"\n\n\"Project Aladdin's focus on encouraging an intercultural dialogue based on mutual knowledge and mutual respect will help ensure that the 21st century is defined not by our differences, but by our common humanity. That is the key to a peaceful future,\" the former President concluded.\n\nProject Aladdin was recently in the news for its criticism of Hezbollah, citing a \"campaign of intimidation\" in relation to the use of \"The Diary of Anne Frank\" in a Lebanese private school.\n\nProject Aladdin celebrated its 10th Anniversary on 29th May 2017 with a Gala Dinner attended by UNESCO DG Irina Bokova and former President Nicolas Sarkozy. At the dinner Sheikh Mohamed Bin Issa Al Jaber was awarded the 2017 Prize for the Dialogue of Cultures. \n\n"}
{"id": "17638328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17638328", "title": "School of Architecture, UNAM", "text": "School of Architecture, UNAM\n\nThe School of Architecture at UNAM is one of the leading schools of architecture and design in Mexico. It offers undergraduate and postgraduate studies in architecture, landscape architecture, urbanism and industrial design.\n\nThe School is one of the follow-up institutions of the former Academia de San Carlos, the other one being the School of Arts and Design. The Academia de San Carlos offered studies in architecture since 1791, under control of the Royal and Pontifical University of Mexico. In 1910, Porfirio Diaz's government grants autonomy to the university, thus the academy was reorganized as the \"Escuela Nacional de Arquitectura\" (National School of Architecture) and the \"Escuela Nacional de Artes Plásticas\" (National School of Art). In 1954 the architecture school moved to its current facilities in Ciudad Universitaria as \"Facultad de Arquitectura\". The first postgraduate studies in both architecture and urbanism were opened in 1968. In 1969 the school opened its undergraduate program in industrial design, and in 1985 the undergraduate programs in urbanism and landscape architecture and postgraduate studies in industrial design.\n\nThe School is run by a dean, currently B.A. Marcos Mazari Hiriart. He is aided by a Technical Council, composed of professors and student and administrative representatives, which makes decisions regarding curriculum, school calendars and schedules, among other tasks.\n\nThe school includes the four undergraduate programs (architecture, landscape architecture, urbanism and industrial design), and the graduate, specialization and research programs (in architecture, urbanism and industrial design). In addition, the school holds its own architectural office, which develops projects both for the University and for external clients; and a cultural division that manages cultural events, exhibits, publications, lectures, etc.\n\nThe undergraduate program in architecture is organised within five branches: project; urban-environmental; technology; theory, history and research. Furthermore, the program is spread among 16 partially independent studios or \"workshops\" which offer all the mandatory courses. These studios are physically located in eight two story buildings (except for two located in the main building). These workshops originally were conceived to perform long-standing projects and focus on experimentation of different architectural conceptions, depending on the staff that the studio had, the profile of the students was formed.\n\nThe workshops are mostly named after Mexican architects or architects that had contributed to Mexican architecture:\n\n\nThe School is located in Ciudad Universitaria in Mexico City, near the School of Engineering, UNAM. It is spread in two separate building complexes; the largest of which houses the undergraduate programs in architecture and landscape architecture, the architecture library, a cafeteria, the Carlos Lazo theater and the Museo Universitario de Ciencias y Artes (Science and Arts University Museum), as well as the main administrative offices. A separate building houses the graduate programs and the undergraduate programs in industrial design and urbanism, two libraries specializing in industrial design and in doctorate-level research, and a cafeteria.\n\n\n\nhttp://arquitectura.unam.mx/arquitectura.html#talleres\n"}
{"id": "21526576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21526576", "title": "Science Gallery", "text": "Science Gallery\n\nScience Gallery is an international group of public science centres. Each gallery is operated by Science Gallery International in partnership with a major local academic institution. The first Science Gallery was opened in 2008 and housed in Trinity's Naughton Institute, at Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. Each gallery holds various artistic exhibitions and lectures with a view to science outreach and art-science collaborations. Unlike most science centres, they have no permanent collection, but rather a series of 3-4 temporary exhibitions each year.\n\nScience Gallery Dublin is located within the Naughton Institute of Trinity College, Dublin, which opened in early 2008. Prof. Mike Coey had championed the inclusion of gallery space in the Naughton Institute as a place to host exhibitions on science and talks. At its launch, Michael John Gorman was the gallery's director and Lynn Scarff was Education and Outreach manager. Scarff subsequently served as director from 2014 to 2018.\n\nThe goal of the gallery is to host a programme of exhibitions, workshops, and events to engage people aged 15–25 with science and technology. Since its opening the Gallery has received funding and support from Google.\n\nIn 2011 the gallery attracted 242,000 visitors, in 2014 that had risen to 400,000, and has seen a total of 1.8 million visitors from 2008 to 2014. The gallery was featured on a limited edition 2015 An Post stamp, which was part of a series along with the BT Young Scientist and Technology Exhibition, celebrating recent Irish scientific achievements.\n\nThe gallery hosts a number of exhibitions every year of varying length. Science Gallery Dublin's opening show was \"Lightwave\"in early 2008, and has since gone on to host forty other shows including shows the way we perceive - \"Seeing\" - and the future of work - \"Humans Need Not Apply.\" A component of a number of the exhibitions is the ability for the public to participate in ongoing research. Examples of this are the collection of data on the water consumption and showering habits of visitors to the Home/Sick exhibition \"WashLab\".\n\nPlans to open a permanent Science Gallery in London were first announced in 2013. Prior to this occasional Science Gallery exhibitions were held in temporary locations within Kings College. Science Gallery London opened in September 2018 in Boland House, Guy's Campus, King's College London as part of a £30M redevelopment of the original 18th century entrance to Guy’s Hospital.\n\nThe opening exhibition at Science Gallery London is \"Hooked: When Want Becomes Need\" exploring themes of addiction and recovery. It runs from September 2018 to January 2019 and includes work by Richard Billingham, Dryden Goodwin, Joachim Koester, Olivia Locher, Rachel Maclean, Melanie Manchot and Natasha Caruana.\n\nThe remit of the gallery has expanded over the years, with it now organising events such as TEDxDublin and Dublin Maker. Some of the exhibitions now travel internationally, with \"Illusion\" travelling to San Diego, and \"Biorhythm\" exhibited in Taiwan. Science Gallery Dublin is now part of an international group - the Global Science Gallery Network - administrated by Science Gallery International (SGI), which has the aim of setting up eight similar galleries across the world by 2020, supported by Google and the Wellcome Trust. The first of which will be in London in collaboration with King's College London, and is due to open in 2016. In 2014, the plans for a Science Gallery in Bangalore, India were announced, with the gallery planned to open in 2018, Science Gallery Melbourne with the University of Melbourne was announced in 2016. The SGI has an agreement to open a gallery with the City College of New York and in late 2016 announced Science Gallery Venice with Ca' Foscari in Venice.\n"}
{"id": "46359860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46359860", "title": "Shpilman Institute of Photography", "text": "Shpilman Institute of Photography\n\nThe Shpilman Institute for Photography (SIP) was an Israeli non profit organisation which promoted photography worldwide.\n\nSIP was founded in 2010 Shalom Shpilman in order to promote photography as an art in Israel and worldwide. The institute, located in Tel Aviv, hosts exhibitions, lectures and various artistic activities by people in the field of photography and media art.\n\nThe SIP also provides ground and holds academic research. It offers grants and scholarships to projects, both locally in Israel and internationally. \n\nIn addition to hosting temporary exhibitions, the SIP had a permanent collection with over 900 works, including photographs by Erwin Blumenfeld, Frederick Sommer, Berenice Abbott, Arthur Siegel, Nan Goldin, Cindy Sherman, Man Ray, Cecil Beaton, Elliott Erwitt, Bill Brandt, Andre Breton, Claude Cahun, Salvador Dali, Harry Callahan, Paul Heismann, Yasuhiro Ishimoto, Adi Nes, Jeff Wall, Uri Gershuni, Ilit Azulay, Deganit Berest, Eli Lotar, Ohad Matalon, Lee Miller and Michal Heiman.\n\nAs of end 2016, Shpilman Institute of Photography ceased its activities and sold its permanent collection at Sotheby's and Christie's. Fifty-five works from the collection were purchased by Israel Museum. The organisation site's latest update was at the end of 2014 and the institute premises were vacated at the beginning of 2015. The Shpilman International Prize for Excellence in Photography remains active though patronage of Israel Museum.\n\nThe Shpilman Institute for Photography in collaboration with The Israel Museum in Jerusalem awards the bi-annual \"Shpilman International Prize for Excellence in Photography\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24870692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24870692", "title": "SiMERR", "text": "SiMERR\n\nSiMERR Australia is an Australia-wide research body. Its National Centre is located at the University of New England, Armidale, NSW, Australia.\n\nSiMERR Australia's main goal is to improve learning outcomes for students in regional and rural areas, particularly in the areas of science, mathematics and Information and Communication Technology (ICT).\n\nThe National Centre of Science, ICT, and Mathematics Education for Regional and Rural Australia (SiMERR) grew out of the Centre for Cognition Research into Learning and Teaching (CRiLT), which was part of the School of Education at the University of New England. Unlike CRiLT, SiMERR focused on the curriculum areas of science, mathematics and ICT.\n\nSiMERR opened its doors on 1 July 2004, with branches, or \"hubs\" opening in each state of Australia in the twelve months that followed in partnership universities, such as the University of Tasmania and the Deakin University in Victoria.\n\nThe SiMERR National summit in 2005 brought together educators and other stakeholders for the first national meeting of its kind since the National Centre opening. The two-day summit brought together people from diverse bodies, such as teacher associations, Federal Government departments, universities, parent groups and educational authorities. Delegates discussed ways in which the educational disadvantage experienced by students in rural and regional areas may be addressed\n\nSiMERR Australia consists of a series of \"hubs\" located in each state in Australia.\n\nSiMERR Australia's vision is to work to improve outcomes for students in science, ICT and mathematics so that:\n\n"}
{"id": "21899154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21899154", "title": "SimSpark", "text": "SimSpark\n\nSimSpark is a generic simulation system for various multiagent simulations. It supports developing physical simulations for AI and robotics research with an open-source application framework. It is commonly used in academic research and education.\n\nThe SimSpark project started in 2003 and was based on the building blocks of the \"Spark\" project. It was initially developed by Marco Kögler and Oliver Obst at the University of Koblenz-Landau in Koblenz, Germany.\n\nSimSpark was registered with SourceForge in 2004 and has an established code base with development increasing year-over-year.\n\nAgents communicate with the simulation server via UDP or TCP, and therefore can be implemented in any language that supports such sockets. Multiple software agents can participate in one simulation.\n\nSimulations are created within the server using the Ruby language and text-based RSG files. \nSimSpark uses the Open Dynamics Engine (ODE) for detecting collisions and for simulating rigid body dynamics. ODE allows accurate simulation of the physical properties of objects such as velocity, inertia and friction.\n\nSimSpark is the simulation engine for the RoboCup 3D Soccer Simulation League. In this simulation two teams play soccer with rules similar to regular soccer. The robots use simulated cameras and other sensors such as accelerometers, gyros and touch and audio sensors. Software agents process signals from these sensors (also known as \"perceptors\") and generate control signals for the 22 hinges within each robot's body in order to achieve whatever forms of motion are required to win a game of soccer.\n\nThe original soccer robot model was known as \"soccerbot\", but since 2008 it has been replaced with a Nao robot inspired model.\n\n"}
{"id": "46771218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46771218", "title": "Tarkwa Senior High School", "text": "Tarkwa Senior High School\n\nTarkwa Senior High School is a co-educational senior high school in the mining town of Tarkwa in the Western Region of Ghana.\n\nThe school was founded in 1961 by the first president of Ghana, Dr. Kwame Nkrumah, under the accelerated Development Plan for Education when Ghana attained independence.\n"}
{"id": "57675208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57675208", "title": "Teaching in Higher Education", "text": "Teaching in Higher Education\n\nTeaching in Higher Education is a peer-reviewed academic journal publishing articles on teaching in the setting of higher education. It was established in 1996 and is published eight times per year by Taylor & Francis. The founding editor-in-chief was Len Barton (UCL Institute of Education), and the current one is Penny Jane Burke (University of Newcastle). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 1.316, ranking it 126th out of 236 journals in the category \"Education & Educational Research\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41910465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41910465", "title": "Teape Lectures", "text": "Teape Lectures\n\nThe Teape Lectures were established at Cambridge University in 1955. They form the major activity of the Teape Trust (Charity No 250095), created from an endowment made posthumously by William Marshall Teape (St John's College, Cambridge 1882, died 1945). The object of the trust is 'The advancement of education by the provision of lectures on the relationship between Christian and Hindu thought and subject thereto the study of Christian and Hindu religious thought and the promotion of Christian-Hindu relations'.\n\nThe lectures are among the most prestigious engagements for Christian-Hindu relations, as evidenced from the list of major speakers who have held the appointments, and from the internationally significant publications that have emerged from many of the lecture series.\n\nThe lectures are typically delivered in Cambridge by a speaker from India or in India by a speaker with a Cambridge connection. They reflect a close association between Westcott House, Cambridge and St. Stephen's College, Delhi.\n\nLecturers:\n\nIn India (generally in Delhi, Bangalore, Kolkata):\n\n1955 Charles Raven (Regius Professor of Divinity Emeritus, Cambridge) 'Religion, Science and Technology'\n\n1958 Owen Chadwick (Master of Selwyn College, Cambridge) 'The Experience of Religion'\n\n1962 Robert Runcie (Principal of Cuddesdon College) 'Christianity and Culture'\n\n1964 Ninian Smart (H. G. Wood Professor of Theology, Birmingham)'The Upahishads and Christian Theology', pub. as \"The Yogi and The Devotee\" (Allen & Unwin 1968)\n\n1967 Leonard Schiff 'Secularisation in East and West'\n\n1969 Robert Charles Zaehner (Spalding Professor of Eastern Religions and Ethics, Oxford) 'Sri Aurobindo and Teihard de Chardin', pub. as \"Evolution in Religion\" (OUP 1971)\n\n1972 Stephen Neill (Professor of Philosophy and Religious Studies, Nairobi) 'Tamil Classics and Christianity', pub. as \"Bhakti, Hindu and Christian\" (Christian Literature Society 1974)\n\n1973 Geoffrey Parrinder (Professor in the Comparative Study of Religions, King's College London) 'Mysticism in Hindu and Christian Thought', pub. as \"Mysticism in the World's Religions\" (Oneworld Publications, New ed. 1995)\n\n1975 John Hick (H. G. Wood Professor of Theology, Birmingham) 'The Hindu Idea of Reincarncation and Christian Eschatology', pub. as part of \"Death and Eternal Life\" (Collins 1976)\n\n1978 JAT Robinson (Dean of Chapel, Trinity College, Cambridge) pub. as \"Truth is Two-Eyed\" (SCM 1979)\n\n1979 Judith Brown (University of Manchester) 'Religious Experience of the Twentieth Century Hindus and Christians', pub. as \"Men and Gods in a Changing World\" (SCM 1980)\n\n1981 Julius Lipner (University Lecturer, Cambridge) 'The Life and Thought of the Hindu-Catholic Nationalist, Brahamabandhab Upadhyay (1861-1907), pub. as \"Brahmabandhab Upadhyay: The Life and Thought of a Revolutionary\" (OUP India 2001)\n\n1983 Brian Hebblethwaite (Lecturer in Philosophy of Religion, Cambridge) 'The Overcoming of Evil', pub. as part of \"Evil, Suffering and Religion\" (SPCK, rev. ed. 2001)\n\n1986 Ursula King (Senior Lecturer, Leeds) 'Women and Spirituality, some Hindu, Christian and Secular Reflections', pub. as part of \"Women and Spirituality, Voices of Protest and Promise\" (Palgrave Macmillan, 2nd ed 1993)\n\n1989 Keith Ward (Professor of Philosophy of Religion, University of London) 'Theism European and Indian: Conflict or Convergence'\n\n1990 Dermot Killingley 'Rammohun Roy in Hindu and Christian Tradition'\n\n1992 Daniel O’Connor 'Relations in Religion' \n\n1994 Nicholas Lash (Norris-Hulse Professor of Divinity, Cambridge) 'The Upanishads of the Catholic Church' pub. as part of \"The Beginning and the End of 'Religion\"' (Cambridge: CUP, 1996)\n\n1996 Roger Hooker 'Narrating Our Nations'\n\n1998 Michael Barnes 'The Dialogue between Theology and Post-Modernity', pub. as \"Walking The City - Christian Discipleship in a Pluralist World\" (ISPCK 1999)\n\n2000 Eric Lott (United Theological College, Bangalore) 'Religious Faith, Human Identity –Dangerous Dynamics in Global and Indian Life', pub. same title (Asian Trading Company, 2005)\n\n2002 Martin Forward 'The Divine in Human Form in India', pub. as \"The Nature and the Name of Love: Religion for the Contemporary World (Epworth Press, 2008)\n\n2004 Ian Markham 'Dialogue Done Differently'\n\n2006 Douglas Hedley (Reader in Hermeneutics and Metaphysics, Cambridge) 'The One and the Many'\n\n2009 David Gosling 'Darwin, Science and the Indian Tradition – Commemorating Darwin’s Bicentenary', pub. as \n\n2011 Andrew Wingate 'Encounter between Hindus and Christians in Britain'\n\n2015 Francis X Clooney, SJ (Parkman Professor of Divinity, Harvard University), \"The Future of Hindu-Christian Studies: Rebuilding the Intellectual-Spiritual Foundations\"\n\nIn Cambridge:\n\n1957 Paul David Devanandan 'The Gita and the Gospel'\n\n1963 F Mulayil 'Karma and Salvation'\n\n1966 Raimundo Panikkar 'Five Great Utterances of the Upanishads', pub. as \"The Vedic Experience\" (Darton, Longman and Todd, 1979)\n\n1968 E Sambaya 'The Upanishads and Christian Thought'\n\n1970 Paul Sudhakar 'The Gita and the New Testament'\n\n1973 Nalini Devadas 'Ananda, the Concept of Bliss in the Upanishads'\n\n1974 S.J. Samarha 'Studies in Hindu-Christian Dialogue'\n\n1976 JDM Stuart 'Swami Abhishitananda, a Study in Christian-Hindu Understanding'\n\n1978 Anima Bose 'Christian Thought and the Gandhian Way'\n\n1980 Samuel Rayan 'A Relentless Quest: Three Upanishad Myths in Relation to Christian Themes'\n\n1982 Aloysius Peiris 'The Buddhist World View and the Christian Kerygma'\n\n1983 Margaret Chatterjee 'The Concept of Spirituality' \n\n1989 Sara Grant (Society of the Sacred Heart), published as \"Towards an alternative theology: Confessions of a non-dualist Christian\" (Asian Trading Company, 1991)\n\n1995 Jyoti Sahi 'The Art Ashram'\n\n1998 Eric Lott (United Theological College, Bangalore) 'Set Free by a Dancing God'\n\n1999 Mark Tully 'The East-West Person'\n\n2001 Christel Devadawson 'Travelling through Britain: India's Road to Post-Colonialism', pub. as part of \"Reading India, Writing English\" (Macmillan India, 2005)\n\n2003 Roger Gaikwad 'The Interplay of Religion, Politics and Communalism in India'\n\n2005 K P Aleaz 'For a Christian Philosophy from India'\n\n2017 Renish Geevarghese Abraham (St. Stephen's College, Delhi) 'Negotiating Hinduism and Christianity in the History of Kerala'\n"}
{"id": "1624359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1624359", "title": "Ted Berrigan", "text": "Ted Berrigan\n\nTed Berrigan (November 15, 1934 – July 4, 1983) was an American poet.\n\nBerrigan was born in Providence, Rhode Island, on November 15, 1934. After high school, he spent a year at Providence College before joining the U.S. Army. After three years in the Army, he finished his college studies at the University of Tulsa in Oklahoma, where he received a BA in English in 1959 and fell just short of the requirements for a M.A. in 1962. Berrigan was married to Sandy Berrigan, also a poet, and they had two children: David Berrigan and Kate Berrigan. He and his second wife, the poet Alice Notley, were active in the poetry scene in Chicago for several years, then moved to New York City, where he edited various magazines and books.\n\nA prominent figure in the second generation of the New York School of Poets, Berrigan was peer to Jim Carroll, Anselm Hollo, Alice Notley, Ron Padgett, Anne Waldman, Bernadette Mayer, and Lewis Warsh. He collaborated with Padgett and Joe Brainard on \"Bean Spasms\", a work significant in its rejection of traditional concepts of ownership. Though Berrigan, Padgett, and Brainard all wrote individual poems for the book, and collaborated on many others, no authors were listed for individual poems.\n\nIn 2005, Ted Berrigan's published and unpublished poetry was published together in a single volume edited by the poet Alice Notley, Berrigan's second wife, and their two sons, Anselm Berrigan, a poet, and Edmund Berrigan, a poet and songwriter.\n\nThe poet Frank O'Hara called Berrigan's most significant publication, \"The Sonnets,\" \"a fact of modern poetry.\" A telling reflection on the era that produced it, \"The Sonnets\" beautifully weaves together traditional elements of the Shakespearean sonnet form with the disjunctive structure and cadence of T. S. Eliot's \"The Waste Land\" and Berrigan's own literary innovations and personal experiences. The product is a composition, in the words of Berrigan's editor and second wife Alice Notley, \"[that is] musical, sexy, and funny.\"\n\nBerrigan was initially drawn to the sonnet form because of its inherent challenge; in his own words, \"the form sort of [stultifies] the whole process [of writing].\" The procedure that he ultimately concocted to write \"The Sonnets\" is the essence of the work's novelty and ingenuity. After attempting several sonnets, Berrigan decided to go back through what he had written and take out certain lines, one line from each work until he had six lines. He then went through the poems backwards and took one more line from each until he had accumulated six more lines, twelve lines total. Based on this body of the work, Berrigan knew what the final couplet would be; this process became the basis for The Sonnets. Addressing claims that the method is totally mechanical, Berrigan explains that some of the seventy-seven sonnets came to him \"whole,\" not needing to be pieced together. The poet's preoccupation with style, his concern for form and his own role as the creator as evinced by \"The Sonnets\" pose a challenge to traditional ideas about poetry and signify a fresh and innovative artistic approach.\n\nThe book recognizes the eternal possibility for invention in a genre seemingly overwhelmed by the success of its traditional forms. By imitating the forms and practices of earlier artists and recreating them to express personal ideas and experiences, Berrigan demonstrates the potential for poetry in his and subsequent generations. As Charles Bernstein succinctly comments, \"Part collage, part process writing, part sprung lyric, Ted Berrigan's \"The Sonnets\" remains…one of the freshest and most buoyantly inspired works of contemporary poetry. Reinventing verse for its time, \"The Sonnets\" are redolent with possibilities for our own.”\n\nBerrigan died on July 4, 1983 at the age of 48. The cause of death was cirrhosis of the liver brought on by hepatitis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7160018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7160018", "title": "The Life Before Her Eyes", "text": "The Life Before Her Eyes\n\nThe Life Before Her Eyes is a 2007 American thriller film directed by Vadim Perelman. The screenplay was adapted by Emil Stern from the Laura Kasischke novel of the same name. The film stars Uma Thurman and Evan Rachel Wood. It was released on April 18, 2008, and revolves around a survivor's guilt from a Columbine-like event that occurred 15 years previously, which causes her present-day idyllic life to fall apart.\n\nImaginative, impetuous, and wild Diana McFee (Evan Rachel Wood) cannot wait for her adult life to begin. While awaiting the final days of high school in the lush springtime, Diana tests her limits with sex and drugs as her more conservative friend Maureen (Eva Amurri) watches with concern. Then the two teens are involved in a Columbine-like shooting incident at their school and are forced to make an impossible choice.\n\nThe film mostly focuses on Diana’s adulthood (Uma Thurman). She leads an apparently normal life as an art history university professor. She has a daughter, Emma (Gabrielle Brennan), and she’s married to the professor who once gave a speech in her school about the power of visualization, how one can shape one’s own future in this way. However, Diana continues to feel guilty about something that doesn’t let her sleep.\n\nOne day she gets a call from Emma’s school, where the nuns running the school complain about Emma's behavior. At an ice cream parlor, Diana asks Emma not to hide any more as she is always doing; Emma responds to her mother's reproaches with the claim that Diana hates her. They leave the parlor abruptly and as they’re about to get into the car, Diana sees her husband with another woman. She hesitates about confronting him and instead remains in the middle of the street where she is hit by a pickup truck. On her way to the hospital she imagines that blood is escaping from her body. In reality, she hasn’t been hurt by the accident. Instead, Diana is remembering the complications she had following an abortion in her high school days.\n\nThe day of the 15th anniversary of the shooting, a memorial is held at the school. Diana drives in front of the school several times until she finally decides to stop and bring in some flowers. As she enters the school she’s asked whether she’s one of the survivors. She smiles and walks inside, first leaving flowers on some desks and then moving on to the rest rooms where one of the shootings took place. At that moment she gets a call from Emma’s school informing her that her daughter is missing and that a pink piece of clothing has been found in the woods. She drives there and walks through the woods, shouting out her daughter's name. Emma appears before Diana’s eyes for a moment but then vanishes almost as soon as she has appeared.\n\nIt is revealed what occurred fifteen years earlier in the washroom where Diana left the flowers. She and Maureen had been forced to decide who would survive when confronted by the shooter, Michael Patrick (John Magaro). Though Maureen had offered herself first, the shooter questioned why Diana should not die. In response, Diana agreed to be killed and was shot by Michael, who then killed himself. At that moment, Diana dreamed the adult life she thought she would have if she let Maureen die and Emma was the child she would have had if she had not gone through the abortion. \n\nAt the anniversary, Diana is asked once again if she is a survivor. She replies \"No\" with a smile, with a sense of relief that she did the right thing by dying and having her friend live her life.\n\n\n\"The Life Before Her Eyes\" received a generally negative response; as of August 2011, Rotten Tomatoes reported that 24% of critics had given the film positive reviews, based on 35 reviews – with the consensus being the film is \"Despite earnest performances, \"Life Before Her Eyes\" is a confusing, painfully overwrought melodrama.\" Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 32 out of 100, based on 15 reviews.\n\nThe film opened in limited release on April 18, 2008, in the United States and grossed $20,220 in eight theaters its opening weekend, averaging $2,527 per theater. As of Jun 27–29, 2008, it had a domestic total gross of $303,439, and a production budget of $13 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "52979582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52979582", "title": "Thinkswap", "text": "Thinkswap\n\nThinkswap is an online educational platform for secondary and tertiary students across Australia that provides access to a variety of study resources, including study notes and subject guides, as well as past essays and assignments. Thinkswap collates and organises all user-submitted material allowing users to search for content by either University (or certificate, in the case of secondary school content), down to the specific subject the user is studying. Users can either upload their own content in exchange for credits which they can \"swap\" for new content, or purchase content directly.\n\nThinkswap was founded by Adam Fasullo whilst studying at the University of Technology Sydney in 2010 as a means for students to share their own class notes, subject guides and past assignments. He believed that most of this sharing was already occurring amongst group of friends and developed Thinkswap to bring this dynamic online, whereby students would benefit from multiple information sources. Following the full website launch, friends Andrew Romano and Emmanuel Christophorou later joined the company as Directors. The website initially targeted University students in NSW, but it has grown since then and now has coverage across most Universities in each State across Australia. In late 2014, Thinkswap extended its reach to High School students in NSW and is continuing to expand into other states across Australia. In 2015 and 2016, the website made its first physical presence appearing at the NSW HSC and Careers Expo.\n\nExchange credits form the currency of the Thinkswap marketplace. In exchange for uploading a document, users will receive a certain number of exchange credits that can be used to purchase other documents on Thinkswap. Alternatively, exchange credits can be purchased directly giving the user access to the resource instantly. Through the use of Exchange Credits, Thinkswap essentially standardises the value of all uploaded documents, broadly classifying resources as either: Complete Study Notes, Partial Study Notes, or Past Essay / Assignment. In essence, a user uploading content of a certain value will be able to ‘swap’ it for another document of equal value.\n\nWhilst Thinkswap reviews all uploaded content, there is no ability to guarantee that the content is the original work of the uploading user. This is particularly the case for past essays / assignments, as well as subject guides, which may contain some copyright material of the University or school. In order to protect the intellectual property of the original author, Thinkswap is required by law to expeditiously remove content when it is flagged as infringing copyright.\n\nGiven Thinkswap also accepts past essays and assignments, the website has been criticised in the media as an aid of student cheating. In response to this, Thinkswap has taken proactive steps to ensure users are aware of the correct use of the platform, including promoting numerous messages around plagiarism and the website's intention to fully co-operate with Universities in any cases of student cheating suspected to relate to Thinkswap content.\n"}
{"id": "22040721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22040721", "title": "Transatlantic studies", "text": "Transatlantic studies\n\nTransatlantic studies refers to the relatively recent educational discipline studying the economic, cultural, political, and social linkages between Atlantic countries, often the United States and Europe.\n\nMA program in Transatlantic Studies, Jagiellonian University\n"}
{"id": "26467186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26467186", "title": "University of Metaphysics", "text": "University of Metaphysics\n\nThe University of Metaphysics is a distance learning, unaccredited theological school operated by International Metaphysical Ministry. Students are prepared for ministerial positions and other related careers in the New Thought branch of metaphysical theology.\n\nThe University of Metaphysics is focused on a New Thought theological curriculum.\n\nThe University of Metaphysics traces its history as a teaching institution back to 1959. The University of Metaphysics as it exists today was founded in 1976 by Paul Leon Masters.\n\nThe International Metaphysical Ministry, which operates the University of Metaphysics, is a non-profit New Thought Metaphysical Ministry claiming to having a presence in over 120 countries.\n\nThe IMM also owns the University Of Sedona, a sister school to the University of Metaphysics.\n"}
{"id": "2885855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2885855", "title": "V. S. Srinivasa Sastri", "text": "V. S. Srinivasa Sastri\n\nValangaiman Sankaranarayana Srinivasa Sastri (22 September 1869 – 17 April 1946) was an Indian politician, administrator, educator, orator and Indian independence activist. He was acclaimed for his oratory and command over the English language. Srinivasa Sastri was born to a poor temple priest in the village of Valangaiman near Kumbakonam, India. He completed his education at Kumbakonam and worked as a school teacher and later, headmaster in Triplicane, Madras. He entered politics in 1905 when he joined the Servants of India Society. Sastri served as a member of the Indian National Congress from 1908 to 1922, but later resigned in protest against the Non-Cooperation movement. Sastri was one of the founding members of the Indian Liberal Party. In his later days, he was strongly opposed to the partition of India.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri served as a member of the Madras Legislative Council from 1913 to 1916, Imperial Legislative Council of India from 1916 to 1919 and the Council of State from 1920 to 1925. Sastri also functioned as India's delegate to the League of Nations, as member of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom and agent to the Union of South Africa.\n\nSastri gained worldwide fame for his prowess in the English language. He was a close follower of Gopal Krishna Gokhale. He was also a close friend and associate of Mahatma Gandhi, who addressed Sastri as his \"elder brother\" in writings. Sastri was made a Companion of Honour in 1930. In 1921, the Freedom of the City of London was conferred on him, and in 1931 he received the Freedom of the City of Edinburgh. \n\nHowever, some members of the Indian freedom struggle such as Nehru felt that Sastri was too sympathetic to the British rulers, and too co-operative with them. This was especially apparent at the Round table conferences where Sastri and his party member agreed to the unfair proposals of the British.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri was born in the town of Valangaiman, Madras Presidency, India on 22 September 1869. His father, Vaidik Sankaranarayana Sastri, was a poor Hindu priest. He was educated at the Native High School in Kumbakonam and in 1887, graduated from Government Arts College, Kumbakonam with a first class degree in English and Sanskrit. On graduation, he found employment as a teacher at Municipal College, Salem.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri married Parvathi in 1885. His granddaughters are, Parvathy, married to Ramamurti (Retd.G.M of NLC) and Kausalya, married to the renowned Indian scientist and nephew of Sir C. V. Raman, S. Ramaseshan.\n\nIn 1894, Srinivasa Sastri was appointed headmaster of Hindu High School, Triplicane and served for a period of eight years, until 1902. During this period, he achieved fame for his proficiency in English and his good administrative skills. In his late years, he also served as Vice-Chancellor of the Annamalai University. During his tenure as Vice-Chancellor, he demonstrated his scholarship in Sanskrit and Oriental Literature. He persuaded Mahavidwan R. Raghava Iyengar, then Head of the Tamil Research Department, to translate Kalidasan's epic poem \"Abhignana Sakuntalam\" in Tamil. The poem was translated in the Sandam Metre and published in 1938. He delivered the Kamala lectures in Calcutta University which are widely cherished and remembered.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri established the Madras Teachers Guild during his term as headmaster of Triplicane High School. He was one of the pioneers of the Co-operative movement and started India's first co-operative society, the Triplicane Urban Co-operative Society (TUCS) in 1904.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri met Indian independence activist Gopal Krishna Gokhale for the first time in 1906. He was drawn towards Gokhale's Servants of India Society and joined the organization becoming its President in 1915. He joined the Indian National Congress in 1908 and became the Secretary of the Madras District Congress Committee in 1911. As a member of the Congress, he was instrumental in bringing about a pact between the Congress and the Muslim League.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri was nominated to the Madras Legislative Council in 1913 and to the Imperial Legislative Council of India in 1916. He opposed the Rowlatt Act which empowered the Government of India to imprison anyone without trial and delivered a well-appreciated speech in the Imperial Legislative Council denouncing the bill. In 1919, he was appointed a member of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1922, Sastri resigned his membership of the Indian National Congress after disagreeing with its leadership on the issue of non-cooperation and established the Indian Liberal Party along with Tej Bahadur Sapru. He consequently served as a President of the Indian Liberal Federation. In 1924, he accompanied Annie Besant on a visit to England demanding Home Rule for India. He also participated in the first and second round table conferences.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri was a part of the delegation of Indian moderates who visited England in 1919. He was also a part of the Indian delegation to the Imperial Conference (1921) and the Second session of the League of Nations in 1921. As a member of the Viceregal council, Srinivasa Sastri was also a part of the British delegation which participated in the Washington Naval Conference and a signatory to the Five Power Naval Disarmament Treaty. During one of his speeches on \"The Political Situation in India\", he was accused of being a British agent and attacked by a mob and had to be hastily escorted away by mounted police.\n\nIn 1922, the Government of India sent Sastri on delegations to Australia, New Zealand and Canada in order to investigate the conditions of Indians living in those countries. Due to his efforts, the Government of Australia passed the Commonwealth Electoral Act enlarging the franchise to include \"natives of British India\".\n\nIn 1919, Srinivasa Sastri visited the Union of South Africa along with Sir Benjamin Robertson as a part of the delegation which signed the Cape Town Agreement with the Government of South Africa. As a result of this agreement, South Africa gave up its Class Area Bill intended to segregate Indians in South Africa. Initially, Jan Smuts, the Prime Minister of the Union of South Africa, refused to treat Srinivasa Sastri on par with the European delegate. However, on Srinivasa Sastri's departure from South Africa as India's Agent in 1928, Smuts recognized Sastri as the \"most respected man in South Africa\".\n\nSrinivasa Sastri was sent to the Federated Malay States in 1937, to report on the conditions of the Indian labourers in the country. The delegation submitted a controversial report titled \"Conditions of Indian labour in Malaya\" which was published in Madras and Kuala Lumpur, the very same year. Srinivasa Sastri, being the author of the report, was criticized by Indian nationalists for \"his reluctance to comment at length on the political and social status of Indians in Malaya\".\n\nOn 27 May 1927, at the behest of Mahatma Gandhi, Lord Irwin, the Viceroy of India, appointed Srinivasa Sastri as India's first Agent to the Union of South Africa. Srinivasa Sastri arrived in South Africa in June 1927 and served as Agent till January 1929.\n\nSoon after taking over, Srinivasa Sastri successfully pressurized the South African government to withdraw Section 5 of the Immigration and Indian Relief (Further Provision) Bill which empowered South African immigration officers and boards to cancel registration certificates. Through his efforts, the Natal Commission for Indian Education was appointed on 17 November 1927. With Sastri's support and encouragement, dissidents of the Transvaal British Indian Association (TBIA) founded the Transvaal Indian Congress (TIC) on 18 December 1927. The TBIA later merged with the South African Indian Congress. Section 104 of the Liquor Bill prohibiting Indians from entering licensed premises was withdrawn. The Thornton Committee was established in 1928 to investigate the sanitary conditions of Indians in and around Durban.\n\nDuring the early part of Sastri's tenure, a number of segregationary laws were passed targeting Indians and Indian immigrants in South Africa. The period also witnessed the establishment of a number of trade unions. Sastri campaigned against racial segregation of Indians and got the Class Area Bill segregating Indians withdrawn.\n\nSastri returned to India in January 1929 and was succeeded by Kurma Venkata Reddy Naidu.\n\nIn 1930, Sastri was appointed a member of the Royal Commission on Labour in India. During 1930–31, he participated in the Round Table Conferences in London to discuss India's future and was instrumental in bringing about the Gandhi-Irwin Pact. In 1935, Sastri was appointed Vice-Chancellor of Annamalai University, in Tamil Nadu, and served from 1935 to 1940. At the peak of the Second World War, he participated in a 15-member Indian delegation which appealed to the British Prime Minister, Winston Churchill to provide dominion status to India. He strongly opposed Muslim League demands for the partition of India.\n\nIn June 1940, the Government of Madras appointed a committee headed by Srinivasa Sastri to frame a set of general principles for coining words for scientific and technical terms in vernacular languages. The constitution of the committee was strongly condemned by the Madras Presidency Tamil Sangam and its Secretary E. M. Subramania Pillai who felt that Srinivasa Sastri was biased in favour of Sanskrit and hence, Anti-Tamil. The committee submitted its report after three months recommending the retention of the existing Sanskrit loanwords in Tamil and rejecting the need for them to be replaced. The deliberations of the Sastri Committee provoked widespread agitations in Madras Presidency. The committee was eventually reshuffled by Provincial Education Minister T. S. Avinashilingam Chettiar soon after the demise of Srinivasa Sastri and balanced with the introduction of more members supporting the replacement of Sanskrit loan words.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri's health began to deteriorate in early 1946. In January, Srinivasa Sastri was admitted to the General Hospital, Madras. He died at 10:30 p.m. on 17 April at the age of 76.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri was known for his mastery over the English language and his oratory. As a student, he once corrected a few passages in J. C. Nesfield's \"English Grammar\". Whenever he was on visit to the United Kingdom, Sastri was often consulted over spellings and pronunciations. His mastery over the English language was recognized by King George V, Winston Churchill, Lady Lytton and Lord Balfour who rated him amongst the five best English-language orators of the century. The Master of Balliol, Arthur Lionel Smith swore that he had never realized the beauty of the English language until he heard Sastri. while Lord Balfour remarked that listening to Srinivasa Sastri made him realise the heights to which the English language could rise. Thomas Smart conferred upon Sastri the appellation \"Silver Tongued Orator of the British Empire\" and he was so called all over the United Kingdom. Srinivasa Sastri's inspirations were William Shakespeare, Sir Walter Scott, George Eliot, John Stuart Mill, Thomas Harvey, Victor Hugo and Valmiki - Indian sage and the author of the Hindu epic \"Ramayana\".\n\nHowever, others noticed that Sastri often repeated the rhetoric of the British empire. In a meeting with students in Lucknow in 1991, he advised students to follow the rules laid out by the British colonial government and not to disobey them. Some time later, when Annie Besant was interned due to her idea regarding Home rule, Sastry fell silent when followers of Besant and Servants of India needed guidance the most. This led Nehru to later comment in his autobiography that while Sastri was an excellent orator, he appeared to advocate mute submission and was not very effective in times of crisis.\n\nDuring his tenure in the Servants of India Society, Sastri developed a close attachment with Mahatma Gandhi. Gandhi often addressed Srinivasa Sastri as his \"elder brother\" in all their correspondences. However, despite their friendship, during his tenure as President, Srinivasa Sastri opposed Gandhi's presence in the Servants of India Society. When Gandhi sought Sastri's advice before launching his non-cooperation movement, he counselled him against it. In his later years, Sastri sternly advised Mahatma Gandhi against accepting the Muslim League demand for partition.\n\nSrinivasa Sastri corrected mistakes in the manuscript of \"The Story of My Experiments with Truth\", the English translation of Gandhi's autobiography and also successive issues of the magazine \"Harijan\" that was edited by Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nOn Sastri's death, Gandhi paid a tribute to Sastri in a condolence message in the \"Harijan\".\n\nSastri was made a member of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom in 1921. On 1 January 1930, he was made a Companion of Honour. The then Viceroy offered to make Sastri Knight Commander of the Order of the Star of India in 1928, but he declined the offer.\n\nIn 1937, the then Governor of Madras offered to make Sastri the Acting Chief Minister of Madras Presidency but Sastri declined the offer. He also declined an offer of membership in the council of the Secretary of State for India. In 1921, the Freedom of the City of London was conferred on Srinivasa Sastri. This was followed by the Freedom of the City of Edinburgh on 9 January 1931.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46379173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46379173", "title": "Yerevan State Institute of Theatre and Cinematography", "text": "Yerevan State Institute of Theatre and Cinematography\n\nYerevan State Institute of Theatre and Cinematography (YSITC), (), is a state university and higher education institution based in Yerevan, the capital of Armenia.\n\nThe University was founded in 1944 as Yerevan State Institute of Theatrical Arts, in 1953 it was united with State Academy of Fine Arts of Armenia and functioned as a part of Yerevan State Institute of Art and Theater till 1994. In 1994 Yerevan State of Art and Theater was divided into State Academy of Fine Arts and Yerevan State Institute of Theater, Institute became independent institution and till nowadays works as Yerevan State Institute of Theatre and Cinematography. \n\nTheater in Armenia has a centuries-old history and dates back to pagan rituals, for example, worship of death and resurrection of God Gisane – Ara the Beautiful and celebration of coming of spring in honor of fertility and healing goddess Anahit. Armenian tragedy dzajnarku-gusan and vohbergak, comedy genre katakergak and kataka-gusan, known from 1 century b.c., served as a base for further development of professional theater.\n\nThe institute was established in 1944, as the Yerevan State Institute of Theatrical Arts. The institute had three departments:\n\nFrom 1950 number of enrollee had been declining (because of the WWII). Due to that the government decided to merge two institutes - Yerevan State Institute of Theatrical Arts and State Academy of Fine Arts of Armenia. As a result, in 1953 new institute was formed and named Yerevan State Institute of Art and Theater that worked till 1994.\n\nIn 1994 after Armenian independence and due to political changes, the government decided to split the Institute into two separate institutions – State Academy of Fine Arts of Armenia and Yerevan State Institute of Theater. \n\nIn 1999, the institute has been restructured and became to be known as the Yerevan State Institute of Theatre and Cinematography, with a major expansion in its specialties.\n\nThe university has 12 main specialties:\n\nThe university is currently home to 3 faculties:\n\nDepartment was opened in 2011 as a result of restructuration of the faculty of theater and cinematography. Specialties:\n\n\nFaculty was founded in 2011. Fields:\n\nSpecialties:\n\nThe faculty consists of two chairs:\n\nIt was established in 2001, after restructuration in 2011 became known as chair of Cinematography and television. Specialties:\n\nChair was founded in 2011. Specialties:\n\nFaculty was founded in 2011. It consists of the following chairs:\n\nSpecialties:\n\nChair covers several areas of art studies:\n\nSpecialties:\n\nChair was established in 2011 and combined chair of socio-cultural management, that was founded in 2003. Specialties:\n\nChair was established in 1944. Academic program includes following subjects:\n\nIn 2014, the Part-time Faculty was founded for Distance education with the specialties of Choreography Directing, Cinematographic Art and Sociocultural Activity.\n\nAccording to the 2015 data, 795 students are enrolled in the head university and 214 students in the branches. University has two options of educational process for two-level degree (bachelor and master, 4 and 2 years accordingly):\n\nThere are also postgraduate studies (full-time and extramural). \n\nInstitute collaborates with several international universities. Students participate in state and international art competitions, festivals and often become laureates and prize-winners.\n\nSince 1961 international students including Armenians from diaspora (from Russia, United States, Georgia, Syria, Lebanon, Iran, Jordan, Bulgaria, etc.) enroll at the university.\n\nThe educational process is organized in specialized auditoriums, workshops, pavilions, cinema and video halls. There are 225 places in student theater. This is repertory theater, that operates all year round. The institutes hold rich collection of more than 40,000 specialized books in its library, collection of films and videos. The institute publish monthly journal “Handes” () that includes scientific and methodological articles of professors and students.\nThe Institute has branches in three cities of the Republic:\n\nThe Gyumri Branch was founded by the governmental decision №231 in 1997. It is the only higher educational institution in the field of theater working in the Shirak Province.\n\nEducational process is held on the following specialties:\n\nAround 110 students are studying in the university (both full-time and extramural). Since 2007-2008 academic year the University provides two-stage educational programs – bachelor and master degree. The University implemented academic credit system. Educational process is organized based on plans and programs approved by the head University and in compliance with the up-to-date regulations.\n\nChairs:\n\nSubstantial part of educational process is student theater. The institute hold specialized competitions – scenic speech, singing, dance, “best duet acting”, “best directing work”, “best photography.” After completing courses students find jobs in Gyumri Drama Theater named after V. Ajemian, Gyumri Puppetry Theater named after S. Alikhanian, tele and radio companies. Many students continue their education in post-graduate programs. There is a preparatory department.\n\nThe Vanadzor Branch was founded by the governmental decision №1283 in 2003. Specialties:\n\nIn 2005-2006 academic year department of cinematography was opened, in 2008-2009 academic year - departments of choreography and camera operator, 2010-2011 – art administration. In 2011-2012 academic year master program in the fields of acting, directing and cinematography were opened.\n\nBy 2012, 55 students and in 2012 – 16 students have graduated from the Institute. At the moment 78 students are enrolled in the University.\n\nThe Goris Branch was founded by the governmental decision №547 in 2004. In 2007 the Institute was registered. \n\nEducational process is held on the following specialties:\n\nFirst application process was held only at the acting department. In 2004-2005 academic year 10 students enrolled in the institute, 2005-2006 – 9 students, 2006-2007 – 5 students, 2007-2008 – 8 students, 2008-2009 – 4 students, 2009-2010 – 7 students, 2010-2011 – 4 students, 2011-2012 – 12 students. Now 25 students are studying in the Institute.\n\nThe following performances were stages as final works:\n\nAt the theater festival in Lori students of the University took prizes in following categories:\n\nAcademic staff of the University includes best artists of the Republic, who are known not only in the country but even far beyond – popular artists, laureates of international contests, State Prizes in addition to 39 professors, 38 docents, 102 lecturers and teachers.\n\n\nOver the years several well-known artists taught in the University or some of the alumnus became prominent artists, for example: Victor Abajian, Khoren Abrahamyan, Vagharsh Vagharshian, Armen Gulakian, Aleksey Djivgelov, Vahram Zaryan, Karen Kocharyan, Henrik Malyan, Yervand Manaryan, Gudj Manukyan, Frunzik Mkrtchyan, Vladimir Msryan, Edvard Muradyan, Nerses Hovhannisyan, Michael Poghosyan, Samir Razaev, Metaksia Simonyan, Tigran Shamirhanyan, Arthur Elbakyan and Edgar Elbakyan.\n"}
{"id": "61221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61221", "title": "École nationale supérieure des télécommunications de Bretagne", "text": "École nationale supérieure des télécommunications de Bretagne\n\nTelecom Bretagne (formerly known as ENST Bretagne) is one of the top French public institutions of higher education and research (Grandes Écoles) of engineering in France, and a high standard research centre providing high level training in Information Technologies and telecommunications. This \"grande école\" of engineering is located near Brest in Brittany.\n\nAs a member of the Institut Mines-Telecom, it has three campuses:\n\nTelecom Bretagne has been the source of breakthroughs in the world of telecommunications, notably the turbo codes (first published in Proc. IEEE ICC'93) used extensively in 3G mobile telephony standards.\n\n\nFor students admitted in \"formation initiale\" (FI, literally \"initial formation\"), the curriculum takes 3 years and deals with six main domains in 1st and 2nd year:\n\nand 4 options in 3rd year :\n\nTelecom Bretagne delivers Master of Science degrees, which are fully compliant with the Bologna system. MSc are two-year training courses leading to a high level of expertise in Information Technologies (IT):\n (Mastères spécialisés, masters de recherche, PhDs...)\n\nAdmission for the Engineering degree is decided, for most French students, through competitive examination after two to three years of mostly theoretical physics and mathematics classes in CPGE. Foreign students and a few French students are selected after undergraduate or graduate studies based on their results and specific tests.\n\n\n\n\n"}
