{"id": "149858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149858", "title": "Alexander Bard", "text": "Alexander Bard\n\nAlexander Bengt Magnus Bard (born 17 March 1961) is a Swedish songwriter, record producer, TV personality, religious and political activist, and one of two founders of Syntheistic religious movement alongside with Jan Söderqvist.\n\nBard was born in Medevi, Motala Municipality, Sweden on 17 March 1961. After he completed his upper secondary education, Bard studied in the United States and in Amsterdam, Netherlands. While living in Amsterdam, he earned part of his living as a sex worker. Bard returned to Sweden to study at the Stockholm School of Economics from 1984 to 1989. In addition to his studies in economics, he took a strong interest in philosophy and social theory with the explicit aim of becoming a philosophy writer and lecturer. Bard has been a judge on \"Swedish Idol\", a spin-off of \"Pop Idol\", since 2011.\n\nBard has written three books on the Internet revolution, collectively known as \"The Futurica Trilogy\", together with media theorist Jan Söderqvist. Their first collaboration \"The Netocrats\" was originally released in Swedish in 2000, became available in English in 2003, and has since been translated to a further 16 languages with total worldwide sales exceeding 340,000 copies.\n\nThe second book \"The Global Empire\" was originally released in Swedish in 2003, while the third installment of the trilogy \"The Body Machines\" was originally published in Swedish in 2009. These latter two works were released in English in 2012, completing \"The Futurica Trilogy\", in which the authors present their philosophical vision for a global and increasingly virtual society, as a consequence of the Internet revolution. A fourth book from Bard & Söderqvist, \"Syntheism - Creating God in The Internet Age\", was released in October 2014. The book focuses on participatory culture as the spirituality of the digital age and advocates a relationalism inspired by philosopher Alfred North Whitehead and physicist Niels Bohr as the antidote to the individualism of the collapsing capitalist age.\n\nBard has given public lectures since 1997, including three TEDx presentations (as of 2013), with a major focus on the social implications of the Internet revolution and has become one of the leading speakers on the international management theory lecturing circuit.\n\n\nBard began his musical career in 1982 with the single \"Life in a Goldfish Bowl\" released under the name Baard, a synth-punk fusion project he had formed together with two female striptease dancers. He later had some minor success as Barbie, which saw Bard performing ironic bubblegum pop songs crossdressed.\n\nAfter abandoning work on a second Barbie album, Bard formed Army of Lovers with two of Barbie's entourage, Jean-Pierre Barda and La Camilla. Army of Lovers had over 20 pan-European hits, the biggest being \"Crucified\", \"Obsession\", and \"Sexual Revolution\", while their presence in the US and the UK was limited to repeated club chart successes. They released five studio albums, made over 20 music videos, and became phenomenally successful across Eastern Europe, before Bard disbanded the group in 1996. Army of Lovers have later earned a widespread iconic status in the gay culture, often referred to as a perfect example of the postmodern take on the ideals of camp. Alexander Bard also worked on the production & composition of Swedish girlgroup Midi, Maxi & Efti.\n\nFollowing the demise of Army of Lovers, Bard founded Vacuum, a symphonic synthpop project featuring Bard, Marina Schiptjenko (formerly of synthpop group Page), and newcomer Mattias Lindblom. Their debut single \"I Breathe\" was one of the fastest selling singles in Sweden in 1997 and also topped the singles chart in Italy. Further releases did not do as well, except in Russia and Ukraine, and Bard left after only two albums. He reformed Army of Lovers briefly in 2000 for a handful of new tracks and a greatest hits collection, and later co-wrote and co-produced the first two Alcazar albums.\n\nIn 2005, Bard launched a new music project called BWO (short for Bodies Without Organs), together with Marina Schiptjenko and new vocalist Martin Rolinski. Their debut album \"Prototype\" generated seven top 20 hit singles in Scandinavia and across Eastern Europe and reached platinum status. A second album \"Halcyon Days\", was released in April 2006, which shipped gold and generated four additional hit singles. 2007 saw the release of a third album, \"Fabricator\", followed by a 2008 compilation album and the 2009 release of a fourth studio album, \"Big Science\".\n\nIn April 2010, Bard announced that he was working with co-producer Henrik Wikström on a new project called Gravitonas, signed to Universal Music worldwide. The project, described as electro-rock, and fronted by Bard himself and vocalist Andreas Öhrn, released a first digital EP in May 2010 and had its first charts hits in Sweden and Russia in the autumn of 2010. Since they refuse to release physical records tied to traditional promotional media campaigns and instead strictly release their music through streaming and downloads and in EP rather than album format, Gravitonas have been dubbed \"The World's First Spotify Band\" by bloggers and the music press. Bard's public friendship with Spotify founder Daniel Ek has played into this narrative. In addition to several No. 1 hit records across the European continent, Gravitonas have also achieved a considerable following as dance act in the U.S., with three hit records to date in the Billboard Top 50 Club Play Chart.\n\nBesides the groups mentioned above, Alexander Bard has also worked as a songwriter and producer for several Swedish artists, in the 1980s mainly with Ola Håkansson and Tim Norell, in the early 1990s with Anders Wollbeck and Per Adebratt—especially on the early 1990s Columbia Records—signed African cult act Midi Maxi & Efti—and more recently mainly with Anders Hansson and Henrik Wikström.\n\nBard was a co-founder of Stockholm Records and runs several internet and music-related businesses. In August 2011, Bard joined the jury of the Swedish version of the Idol TV show, sharing the stage with Celine Dion's record producer Anders Bagge, quickly being referred to as \"The Scandinavian Simon Cowell\" due to his famously and characteristically harsh and straightforward commenting of the contestants.\n\nArmy of Lovers reunited in 2013, releasing a new compilation album titled \"Big Battle of Egos\" featuring four brand new tracks including lead single and video \"Signed on My Tattoo\", a duet with Gravitonas. The band cited political reasons, including their outspoken opposition to increased homophobia and antisemitism in Europe, for the reunification, after which they headlined both the Pride festivities of 2013 in Copenhagen and Belgrade and several major TV shows in Sweden, Poland, Russia and Ukraine.\n\nHe is one of the jury in Talang 2017 which is broadcast on TV4.\n\nAlexander Bard has for long been a vocal opponent of laws against personal drug consumption and laws against prostitution in Sweden. Having earlier been a member of — or worked closely with members of — The Liberals, the Center party and the Pirate Party, he joined the newly founded Citizens' Coalition in 2018. He considers himself to be a Libertarian Marxist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "255909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255909", "title": "Amaymon", "text": "Amaymon\n\nIn demonology, Amaymon (also Amaimon, or Amoymon) is a Prince of Hell, and, according to some Grimoires, the only one who has power over Asmodai.\n\nA curious characteristic of this Spirit is shown during the Evocation of Asmodai to visible appearance, when the Exorcist must stand upright with his Cap or Headdress removed in a show of respect; for if he does not it is Amaymon who will deceive him and doom all his work.\n\nAmaymon is said to have a deadly poisonous breath.\n\n\"The Lesser Key of Solomon\" states the Exorcist or conjurer must be in possession of a Silver Ring, duly consecrated and worn on the middle finger as a form of protection against this poisonous astral breath.\n\nAccording to Pseudomonarchia Daemonum he is the King of the West, although for some translations of \"The Lesser Key of Solomon\" he is King of the East (Although some translations of \"The Lesser Key of Solomon\" consider Belial, Beleth, Asmodai and Gaap kings of the four cardinal directions, though not giving detail on the cardinal point each rule).\n\nAccording to the grimoire \"The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage\" translated by S.L. MacGregor Mathers, Amaymon (as Amaimon) was one of the eight Sub-Princes, described as an Egyptian devil whom Abramelin restrained from working evil from the third hour till noon and from the ninth till evening. \n"}
{"id": "2438464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2438464", "title": "Andrew Keegan", "text": "Andrew Keegan\n\nAndrew Keegan (born January 29, 1979) is an American actor best known for his roles in television shows including \"Party of Five\" and \"7th Heaven\" and in films such as \"10 Things I Hate about You\" (1999), \"The Broken Hearts Club\" (2000) and \"O\" (2001).\n\nKeegan was born Andrew Keegan Heying in Los Angeles, California, the older son of Lana (Ocampo), a hairdresser, and Larry Heying, a voice-over actor. Keegan's mother is Colombian and his father is from Nebraska. \n\nKeegan has a younger brother, Casey (born June 12, 1980), who is also an actor. His daughter, Aiya Rose Keegan, was born in March 2016.\n\nIn 2014, Keegan founded Full Circle, a community spiritual center based out of Venice Beach, California. \"Vice\" characterized the organization as a \"new religion\", while other outlets called it a cult. In an interview, Keegan described the group as a \"non-denominational spiritual community center where people of all beliefs and backgrounds come together to meditate, practice yoga, and engage artistically.\" \"New York Magazine\" reported in March 2015 that \"the actual theology of the group is tough to pin down, but it seems to loosely follow Hinduism—or at least Russell Brand's Sanskrit-tattoo version of it.\" In May 2015, the Full Circle temple was raided by Californian Alcohol Beverage Control officers. The raid was apparently related to Full Circle's distribution of kombucha, a fermented beverage made from sweet black tea. A spokesperson for the temple stated that they were unaware that they needed a license to distribute kombucha. The organization closed its doors in June 2017.\n\nHe was first recognized for his performance of teen rebel Zack Dell in the film \"Camp Nowhere\" (1994). Keegan was cast in a minor role in the 1996 film \"Independence Day\". He also played a love interest for Stephanie Tanner in the television series \"Full House\" for an episode. He had guest parts on numerous television shows before being cast on the TV drama \"Party of Five\" (1994). That same year, he landed another recurring role on \"7th Heaven\" (1996), where he played a single teenaged father in love with Jessica Biel's character Mary. Keegan was then cast in two modern-day Shakespearean film adaptations: as the antagonist of Heath Ledger in the 1999 comedy \"10 Things I Hate About You\" (adapted from \"The Taming of the Shrew\") and as Mekhi Phifer's best friend in 2001's \"O\", adapted from \"Othello\".\n\nKeegan then took a role in Greg Berlanti's \"\" (2000), which won Best Picture that year at the GLAAD Awards. In 2009, Keegan made his theatrical stage debut in the play \"He Asked For It\", playing Rigby, a character tackling the emotional issues of being HIV-positive in modern-day society. In 2010, Keegan played Strayger, a drug-smuggling pilot in the 2010 action film \"Kill Speed\". Keegan took on a role as a sadistic and sociopathic vampire named Blake in the film \"Living Among Us\" (2015).\n"}
{"id": "2340945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2340945", "title": "Ariobarzanes of Phrygia", "text": "Ariobarzanes of Phrygia\n\nAriobarzanes (in Greek Ἀριoβαρζάνης), (Old Persian: Ariyabrdhna, \"Ariyaubrdhna\") \"Ariobarzan\" or spelled as Ario Barzan or Aryo Barzan, perhaps signifying \"exalting the Aryans\" (death: crucified in c. 362 BCE), sometimes known as Ariobarzanes I of Cius, was a Persian Satrap of Phrygia and military commander, leader of an independence revolt, and the first known of the line of rulers of the Greek town of Cius from which were eventually to stem the kings of Pontus in the 3rd century BCE.\nAriobarzanes was apparently a cadet member of the Achaimenid dynasty, specifically its branch which had settled to hold Dascylium of Hellespont in the 470s BCE. Cius is located near Dascylium, and Cius seemingly was a share of family holdings for the branch of Ariobarzanes.\n\nAriobarzanes' one predecessor was a (kinsman) named Mithradates (possibly Mithradates, Satrap of Cappadocia). The archaeologist Walther Judeich claims that Ariobarzanes was that Mithradates' son, but Brian C. McGing refutes that specific filiation. Seemingly, no classical source itself calls them son and father, the filiation being a later reconstruction on basis of successorship.\n\nPharnabazus, Satrap of Phrygia (fl. 413373 BCE), son of Pharnaces of Phrygia, is indicated to have shared his rule and territories with his brothers in the late 5th century BCE when Pharnabazos had recently succeeded to the position. Mithradates, Satrap of Cappadocia, might have been one of such brothers. Ariobarzanes of Cius might have also been one of those brothers.\n\nThe classical source Appianus relates that Ariobarzanes was of a cadet line of the family of the Persian Great King Dareios (Darius the Great).\n\nIt is highly probable he is the same Ariobarzanes who, around 407 BCE, was the Persian envoy to the Greek city-states and cultivated the friendship of Athens and Sparta. \nAriobarzanes conducted the Athenian ambassadors, in 405 BCE, to his sea-town of Cius in Mysia, after they had been detained three years by order of Cyrus the Younger.\n\nAriobarzanes was mentioned as under-satrap in Anatolia in late 5th century BCE. He then apparently succeeded his presumed kinsman (possibly elder brother) Pharnabazus (fl. 413373 BCE) as satrap of Phrygia and Lydia, assigned by Pharnabazos himself when he departed to the Persian court to marry Apama, daughter of the Persian king. Thus Ariobarzanes became the satrap of Hellespontine Phrygia, in what is now the northwest of Turkey. Pharnabazos lived well into the 370s BCE, having obtained higher positions in the Persian monarchy than merely the Phrygian satrapship.\n\nAriobarzanes assisted Antalcidas in 388 BCE. He appears to have still held some high office in the Persian court in 368 BCE, as we find him, apparently on behalf of the king, sending an embassy to Greece in that year. Ariobarzanes, who is called by Diodorus satrap of Phrygia, and by Nepos satrap of Lydia, Ionia, and Phrygia, revolted against Artaxerxes II in 362. Demosthenes speaks of Ariobarzanes and his three sons having been lately made Athenian citizens. He mentions him again in the following year and says, that the Athenians had sent Timotheus to his assistance; but that when the Athenian general saw that Ariobarzanes was in open revolt against the king, he refused to assist him.\n\nWhen Pharnabazos' son, Artabazos II of Phrygia, wanted to regain his father's satrapy from their kinsman, Ariobarzanes refused. Ultimately, in about 366 BCE, Ariobarzanes joined an unsuccessful revolt of the satraps of western Anatolia against the Achamenian King Artaxerxes II (Revolt of the Satraps). Several other satraps sided with Ariobarzanes, including Mausolus of Caria (briefly), Orontes I of Armenia, Autophradates of Lydia and Datames of Cappadocia. The rebel satraps also received support from the pharaoh of Egypt, Teos, as well as from some of the Greek city states, with the Spartan king Agesilaus II coming to their assistance with a mercenary force. As signal of sympathy in the effort, Athens made Ariobarzanes and three of his sons citizens of Athens. Ariobarzanes was betrayed by his son Mithridates to his overlord, the Persian king, who had Ariobarzanes crucified.\n\n"}
{"id": "6598563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6598563", "title": "Arthur Paunzen", "text": "Arthur Paunzen\n\nArthur Paunzen (4 February 1890 – 9 August 1940?) was a Jewish Austrian artist.\n\nPaunzen was born on 4 February in fin de siecle, Vienna, to Leopold Paunzen and Hermine née Kuhn. His parents were Jewish. He studied with Ludwig Koch in Vienna. He also studied in France at Académie Julian under Jean Pierre Laurens and traveled Italy studying art and architecture, which was very common for his time. In 1918 Paunzen married the Jewish Cornelia Westreich in Vienna.\nPaunzen created a number of works that make bold symbolic attempts to convey music as images. For instance, depicting Beethoven’s Eroica (Third) Symphony as nude horse backed trumpeters in the sky surrounded by clouds, flanked by a \"stony faced\" trumpeter who might very well be death. Also, his series based on Gustav Mahler's song cycle, the \"Song of the Earth\" or the etchings he created for Raskolnikov.\n\nMany of his pieces were collected by the British Museum, the Stockholm Engraving Collection and the Albertina Museum in Vienna.\n\nIn 1938, as Hitler rose to power, Paunzen moved to Great Britain.\n\nArthur Paunzen died on 9 August 1940, in Central Internment Camp, Douglas, Isle of Man. (In a panic measure, the British authorities interned all German and Austrian citizens in the country, including all those who were Jews fleeing Nazi oppression, in May 1940.) His death is described by his friend and fellow-internee, the composer Hans Gál, in his internment diary. He died of severe bronchial pneumonia, exacerbated, according to Gál's account, by neglect on the part of the authorities. He is buried in the Jewish section of Douglas Borough Cemetery, Isle of Man ).\n\n"}
{"id": "41392006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41392006", "title": "Auguraculum", "text": "Auguraculum\n\nThe auguraculum (plural: auguracula), was a roofless temple oriented to the cardinal points, in which the priests of ancient Rome practiced augury and ornithomancy. The priest observer was positioned at the center of the temple, in a tent or a hut, and watched portions of the sky from which came the birds, which were marked out by stones placed along the perimeter of the temple. From this observation, the priest was believed to be able to predict the future.\n\nThe auguraculum was structurally a very simple device, a small thatched hut, which appears to have been regularly renewed. There were three permanent auguracula in Rome: on the citadel, on the Quirinal Hill, and on the Palatine Hill. Festus said that originally the auguraculum was just the arx. It faced east, situating the north on the augur's left or lucky side. This auguraculum the elected monarch, during the Roman Kingdom, was seated by the augurs with his face to the south. A magistrate who was serving as a military commander also took daily auspices, and thus a part of camp-building while on campaign was the creation of a tabernaculum augurale. This augural tent was the center of religious and legal proceedings within the camp.\n"}
{"id": "52722468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52722468", "title": "Ben Davies (poet)", "text": "Ben Davies (poet)\n\nBen Davies (1864 - 1937) was a 19th century Welsh poet, and an Independent minister. He grew up in the Dolgam area, where he received some early education at the local school. At the age of 13 however he entered employment as a miner in a local coal mine.\n\nHe began writing poetry at quite a young age, and was awarded prizes at various local literary competitions and Eisteddfodau. At 21 he won the bardic chair at the Tredegar Eisteddfod for his awdl on Virtue (Rhinwedd). He was also competent at the art of composing cynghanedd.\n\nFrom 1886-8 he studied at Bala Independent College, before becoming minister of Bwlchgwyn and Llandegla (1888–91), and then Panteg, Ystalyfera (1891-1926).\n\nHe continued his Eisteddfod successes, often winning the chief prizes. In 1896 he published a volume of lyrics, 'Caneuon Bywyd'. He also frequently gave lectures on Welsh literary personalities.\n\nHe spent his later years living in London with his children and died in January 1937.\n"}
{"id": "2685896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2685896", "title": "Buddhism in Laos", "text": "Buddhism in Laos\n\nBuddhism is the primary religion of Laos. The Buddhism practiced in Laos is of the Theravada tradition. Lao Buddhism is a unique version of Theravada Buddhism and is at the basis of Lao culture. Buddhism in Laos is often closely tied to animist beliefs and belief in ancestral spirits, particularly in rural areas.\n\nThe percentage of the population that adheres to Buddhism in modern Laos is variously reported, the CIA World Factbook estimates 65% of the total population identify as Buddhist. The creation of accurate estimates of the number of Buddhists in Laos is complicated by the paucity of information made available by the Laotian government, and the close connection between Buddhist and animist practices in Laos could make the numbers of nominal adherents of both Buddhism-Animism as high as over 90%. There are also significant numbers of Chinese or Vietnamese Mahayana Buddhists.\n\nTheravada Buddhism is believed to have first reached Laos during the 7th - 8th Centuries CE, via the kingdom of Dvaravati. During the 7th Century, tantric Buddhism was also introduced to Laos from the kingdom of Nan-chao, an ethnically Tai kingdom centered in modern-day Yunnan, China. The Nan-chao kingdom also likely introduced the political ideology of the king as defender and protector of Buddhism, an important ideological tie between the monarchy and the \"sangha\" in much of Southeast Asia. We also know very little about the transfer of Buddhism to the region which today is called Laos, but the current state of research suggests that Buddhism did not come in a single movement. According to Michel Lorrillard \"the conditions surrounding this penetration remain very imprecise, due to the long duration of this process\". From a general perspective, research on the early history of Lao Buddhism had advanced slowly, but recent studies are also signalling progress.\n\nDuring the 11th & 12th Century, rulers took control of Muang Sua, the historical region of the kingdom of Luang Prabang in northern Laos. During this period, Mahayana Buddhism replaced Theravada Buddhism as the dominant religious ideology of the ruling classes. Epigraphical sources confirm that the early Lao kingdoms display the first clear signs of the Buddhicization of royal power around the middle of the fifteenth century when kings were labeled \"cakkavatti\" (Pali for king as the 'turner of the wheel of the Buddhist dhamma').\n\nHistorically, the Lao state is regarded as beginning in 1353 CE with the coronation of Fa Ngum at Luang Prabang. According to local historiography, Fa Ngum brought his Khmer Theravada teacher with him to act as adviser and head priest of the new kingdom. This Khmer monk named Phramaha Pasaman also brought to the kingdom a revered image of the Buddha that became known as the Phra Bang, the namesake of the city of Luang Prabang and the symbol of the Lao kingdom. However, Michel Lorrillard asserts the \"complete artificial nature of this narrative\" and is rather critical of the historical value of the Fa Ngum story. He instead emphasizes the influence of Buddhism from Chiang Mai. Subsequent alliances with Burma and Thailand helped cement the primacy of Theravada Buddhism in the Laotian kingdom. As attested in inscriptions, King Photisarath (1501–1547) tried to suppress the worship of spirits and further Buddhicize the population. However, the \"animistic\" elements of Lao Buddhism have over time survived all purification efforts and are still today of crucial importance. Local spirit cults and rituals associated with indigenous ideas of \"soul substance\" (\"khwan\") are in most cases seamlessly integrated into Buddhism, and practitioners rarely see them as contradictive. Faced with rugged, isolating geography and the absence of a strong central government, Theravada Buddhism became one of the primary unifying features of Lao culture.\n\nThe French colonial regime from early on sponsored Buddhism and its educational institutions. New curricula were set up, several monasteries were renovated and the educational system for monks was transformed so that it could serve colonial demands. During the 1920s, the administration of Buddhism in Laos was further reorganized by Prince Phetsarath and the French colonial regime. In order to subvert the dominance of Thai monastic education in the region, and use Lao and Khmer Buddhism for enhancing colonial control, the French set up institutes for the training of Buddhist monks under the auspices of EFEO. On 24 November 1914 the \"Ecole de Pali\" was founded by royal decree in Phnom Penh and renamed \"Ecole Supérieure de Pali\" in 1922. Having the aim to enhance the study of Buddhism through teaching monks \"proper\" Pali and Sanskrit, two Cambodian monks were in 1922 sent to EFEO Hanoi for language training.\n\nLao monks first went to Phnom Penh to study at the Buddhist Institute, but Lao branches were finally opened in 1931, reflecting the peripheral position of Laos in the colonial project. The French introduced new curricula based on the study of selected and appropriate texts, awarded monks with certificates and printed Buddhist books. Gregory Kourilsky and Soren Ivarsson have explored this restructuring of Buddhist education under French colonialism. They argue that the agendas behind this reorganization of Buddhism in Cambodia and Laos were similar: In order to build a national Buddhism within the context of Indochina, Siamese influence had to be curtailed. Instead of Bangkok, the Khmer and the Lao branches of the Buddhist Institute were to become centers for the higher education for monks. This sponsorship and control of Buddhism was also grounded in Buddhism's potential for anti-colonial resistance: During the early phase of French colonialism Buddhist millennial movements caused major troubles for the French regime, and parts of the Khmer sangha also opposed French influence. The influence of these colonial reforms in the field of monastic education were somewhat neutralized by the increasing political struggles during the 1950s, and finally the socialist revolution in 1975. However, during the first years of independence until 1975, signs of secularization also became visible in the domain of monastic education: While a state school system was spreading, monastic education became an increasingly specialized subfield.\n\nThe Communist treatment of religion in Laos has diverged from the experience of many other countries which have had a communist regime. Instead of repressing or banning religion outright, the Communists in Laos used the Buddhist Sangha as a vehicle to achieve political aims. Officially, Marxist theory rejects religion because it is seen as a tool used by the ruling classes to mislead the oppressed classes and to keep them subservient. Even though the Pathet Lao saw Buddhism as an antithesis of Marxism, they were able to reconcile aspects of Buddhism with Marxism. \nThe Pathet Lao saw Buddhism and Marxism conflicting on these principles:\nThe Pathet Lao re-interpreted Buddhism by affirming that there was no conflict between the teaching of the Gautama Buddha and revolutionary aims. They focused on the life story of the Gautama Buddha. Gautama's rejection of royal status and his choice of becoming a mendicant could be considered revolutionary as he rejected the trappings of wealth and the privilege of the ruling elite. People were not accorded status based on caste or wealth but were accepted as long as they accepted the Dhamma. The Pathet Lao claimed that Buddha had already envisioned a classless society because of his rejection of class distinction. The Pathet Lao also pointed out Buddhism had a strong dimension of social justice as the Gautama Buddha was interested in the material welfare of people and he wanted to relieve the lot of the poor. Poverty was seen as a root of evil and as a cause of crime. A minimal level of material well-being was necessary before the Dhamma could be practised. This was not too different from the Pathet Lao's aim of redistributing wealth. The Pathet Lao also pointed out both Buddhism and Marxism were interested in the ultimate happiness of people; they both aimed to help people escape from suffering; the only difference was in their method of achieving happiness. Both Buddhism and Marxism rejects the capitalist system.\n\nAccording to the Pathet Lao, Buddhism and Marxism advocated different solutions because they were the evolutionary product of societies at different stages of development. Buddhism was a historical product of a pre-industrial age while Marxism was the scientific ideology of the industrial age. Buddhism was acceptable and it was useful as a tool of the revolution if it was purged of superstitious practices which had accrued over time.\n\nPoliticisation of the Sangha\n\nThe Pathet Lao's choice to co-opt Buddhism into its revolutionary struggle had a historical basis. Traditionally, the monarchy and the Sangha had a reciprocal relationship. The Sangha aimed to remain on good terms with the state. The king's right to rule was based on his submission to the Dhamma. He only ruled through the power of the Three Jewels of Buddhism: Buddha, the Dhamma and the Sangha. In return for the Sangha's support and legitimation of his rule, the king had to support the upkeep of the Sangha and promote the Dhamma in the kingdom. This was a relationship based on mutual benefits. The role of the king was to run the secular affairs of the country while the Sangha also derived its moral authority by being detached and aloof from mundane affairs.\n\nFrench colonial rule resulted in the marginalization of the Sangha. It was during the Japanese occupation of French Indochina that a nascent Lao nationalist movement began to pay attention to traditional Lao culture. The nationalist movement focused on the role of Buddhism in Lao society and on the Sangha as a repository of traditional Lao values. Many young monks became involved in this resurgence of nationalism. It also meant that the traditional role of the Sangha was changing. The Sangha was no longer purely occupied with the spiritual realm; it had crossed into the secular realm. With the exile of the Lao Issara government in Thailand after the resumption of French control in 1946, the Sangha played a significant role in fanning nationalist sentiment in Laos. They also provided financial support by using Buddhist festivals as fundraisers. In 1950, the Lao Issara movement split into two factions. The moderate faction supported independence within the French Union while the radical faction supported the armed struggle of the Viet Minh. Some monks actually joined the Pathet Lao, while other monks used Buddhist teachings to bolster the liberation struggle. This was effective because of the great moral impact of the Sangha on Lao society. As a result, both the government in Vientiane and the Pathet Lao sought to use the Sangha as a vehicle for their political aims.\n\nIn the First Coalition government of 1957, the Pathet Lao held religious affairs as one of their two portfolios. The Minister for Religious Affairs, Phoumi Vongvichit was a communist and there was a tactical reason for the Pathet Lao to take this portfolio. The Ministry of Religious Affairs supervised the Sangha directly, a function it inherited from its colonial predecessor. Information and instructions could be transmitted via the Sangha ranks without recourse to the civil administration. This meant that the communists were now in control of a communication network which fanned out from Vientiane to the most inaccessible villages. The ministry funds were also used to pay for monastic meetings where pro-communist ideas could be promulgated. This technique was so effective that even though the Coalition government collapsed in a matter of months, many monks had already been won to the side of the Pathet Lao. Communist propaganda was also incorporated into Buddhism sermons: the right wing forces were equated with evil and the Communists were seen as the forces of good.\n\nRightist Attempt to Co-Opt the Sangha\n\nThe success of the Pathet Lao in using the Sangha for their political aims goaded the government in Vientiane and their American supporters into action by trying to bring the Sangha firmly under their control. The rightist government of Phoui Sananikone, which took power after the failure of the First Coalition government, tried to control the Sangha by passing legislation in the form of Royal Ordinance number 160 on 25 May 1959. It defined government control of the internal affairs of the Sangha. Government officials could veto elections of abbots and elders and candidates for higher positions in the Sangha required Cabinet consent. Correspondence between the various administrative divisions of the Sangha had to go via the civil administration. This was an attempt to turn the Sangha into another branch of the executive. This resulted in tension between the Sangha and the government and led to unrest in the Sangha. This proved to be opportune for the Pathet Lao who were quick to exploit these tensions to their own interests. The Americans trained some of the monks, who were then expected to speak against the Communists. Lao-speaking monks from Thailand were also sent to Laos to join the ideological battle against the Communists. These monks were from the Thammanyut-nikay sect, a reform sect which had been founded in Thailand. The Thammanyut-nikay sect was a minority sect in Laos, as opposed to the majority Maha-nikay sect. The immediate consequences of all these actions led to further tensions between the government and the Sangha. This was quickly exploited by the Pathet Lao. Two underground movements, with Pathet Lao support was founded to fight against American and government influence in the affairs of the Sangha. They were the \"Movement of Young Monks against the Thai Thammanyut monks\" and the \"Movement of Novices to Demand their Rights\".\n\nIn addition, many members of the Sangha were already pre-disposed to anti-government propaganda of the Communists due to the \"inverse class structure\" of the Sangha. Under the French administration, the Lao elite was educated in secular schools. The poor could only be educated in the monasteries. Jobs in the government were offered to the French-educated elite; those who were educated in monasteries were denied jobs in the government on the grounds that their religious education was irrelevant for government jobs. Many of those students who were educated in the monasteries had to remain as monks and they harboured grudges against the government. This was aggravated by the fact that many members of the Sangha, especially those in rural areas only received a rudimentary education and were ill-disciplined. They only had a flimsy knowledge of the Dhamma and were susceptible to Marxist manipulations of Buddhism.\n\nSangha as an organ of propaganda\n\nDuring the Lao Civil War, the Pathet Lao actively used members of the Sangha in their propaganda campaign. For example, a seized Pathet Lao document dated 14 January 1968 reports how the Pathet Lao had sent out thirty-three monks \"to preach revolutionary ethics….to protect Buddhism, to revive the real morality, to explain the revolutionary tasks to the people, and to resist the psychological warfare of the American imperialists and their reactionary lackeys\". According to the Pathet Lao, members of the Sangha could be transformed into revolutionaries. This is because the monk has renounced material possessions and is no longer motivated by selfish personal interests. The monk was seeking the betterment of humanity. As such, the monk could not stand idly by and allow the oppression of the common people. To allow such injustice was a betrayal of Buddhism. The Pathet Lao also officially accepted Buddhism in the zones under their control.\n\nWith the proclamation of the Lao People's Democratic Republic on 2 Dec 1975, the Pathet Lao needed to establish their legitimacy to rule, especially in zones that used to be controlled by the rightists. They actively promoted an eighteen-point political programme with the slogan \"Laos: Peaceful, Independent, Neutral, Democratic, United and Prosperous\". The liberal democratic tone of the document appealed to most people. These included unity and equality of all Lao nationals of all ethnic groups, free elections, freedom of speech and the right to free enterprise and property ownership. The fifth point included a call to respect and protect all religions, especially Buddhism. Naturally, the Sangha supported these eighteen points. They recruited as many monks as possible to preach these eighteen points in the rural areas. The Pathet Lao message benefited from the goodwill felt by the people towards the Sangha as this message was promoted via the monks. At the same time it must be noted that the monks were accompanied by armed Pathet Lao cadres on their preaching tours, supposedly for their protection. Their sermons were also tape-recorded to ensure that they kept to the official party line. Monks who did not support the eighteen point political programme were criticised.\n\nThe Sangharaja or the Supreme Patriarch of Buddhism in Laos also urged the monks to work with the revolutionaries for the good of the nation. A booklet entitled \"Action Plan for the Lao Sangha\" was prepared. It noted the importance of the Sangha and emphasised the importance of the Sangha as mediators in Lao society. This indicated how the Pathet Lao intended to use the ecclesiastical weight of the Sangha to settle disputes they may face in their transition to power. Monks were to serve as a channel of communication between the Party and the people.\n\nMonks were the first to attend Pathet Lao political seminars. At first, they attended voluntarily but as these seminars became protracted re-education classes, monks had to be forced to attend. In these seminars, the monks were taught the Pathet Lao interpretation of Buddhism. Monks were taught Marxism-Leninism in Buddhist institutes. Both Marxism and Buddhism taught the equality of all men. The Sangha, as a community of men who lived and worked together without individual ownership of property, was similar to a Marxist collective. Both Marxism and Buddhism at an abstract level, aimed to liberate mankind from suffering and to attain happiness. The Pathet Lao tried to purge Buddhism of such superstition as belief in the existence of demons, or of life after death in one of the Buddhist heavens or hells. The accumulation of merit was downplayed; and karma was denounced as leading to fatalism and pacifism.\n\nWhile proclaiming that Buddhism and Marxism was compatible, the Pathet Lao also sought actively to replace the Dhamma with Marxism-Leninism. They also sought to discourage merit making, as it was seen as a diversion of scarce resources. To the Pathet Lao, religion still conflicted with the formation of an orthodox Marxist-Leninist state. Ironically, the Pathet Lao's attack on the popular aspects of Lao Buddhist practice such as spirit worship and use of special amulets may have actually led to an increased orthodoxy in Lao Buddhism as it is reverting closer to Buddha's original teachings. Thai followers of Buddhadasa are of the opinion that Lao Buddhism has freed itself from false beliefs and local accretions. They point out that spirit worship and the blessing of amulets, which were not part of Buddha's teachings, have been prohibited.\n\nMore importantly, the Sangha remained as an alternative route to social advancement outside the Lao People's Revolutionary Party or LPRP, the political wing of the Pathet Lao. The Pathet Lao sought to make the Sangha an instrument of party policy. It was also important to control the Sangha as it was one of the few organisations that had penetrated every village in Laos. The sectarian divisions between Maha-nikay and Thammanyut-nikay was abolished and the Sangha was restructured as the Lao United Buddhists Association. This association was placed under the auspices of the Department of Religious Affairs in the Ministry of Education. The traditional Sangha hierarchy, including the Sangharaja was abolished and their elaborate fans which were the symbols of their ranks, were smashed. Executive positions in the Lao United Buddhists Association were filled by Party appointees. All high ranking monks had to attend month long political indoctrination classes. Theravada monks have to attend a fortnightly recitation of the patimokha or the 227 verses of monastic discipline in Pali. This became transformed as a forum to criticise monks who had strayed from the Party line. Monks began to leave the Sangha or flee to Thailand.\n\nAt the beginning of 1976, a number of attacks were mounted against Buddhism. The teaching of religion and Buddhist morality was prohibited in primary schools. Buddhist monks were harassed by local cadres. These attacks did not last as it led to great public opposition. The Pathet Lao also realised that they still needed the monks for their propaganda objectives. By the end of 1976, these pressures on the Sangha ceased. These pressures also ceased at the same time that the Pathet Lao completed the reorganisation of the Sangha. Monks are still invited to attend all secular state occasions, such as National Day. Official government delegations have attended major Buddhist festivals such as the That Luang Festival. (Trankell 2000, p. 198). Although monks are not harassed, they have to use their sermons to encourage the people to support the Party and its policies. This also had the effect of reducing the prestige of the Sangha in the eyes of the laity. Traditionally, the independence of the Sangha acted as the foundation of its moral authority; it was aloof and detached from mundane affairs. By using the monks as a vehicle of political indoctrination, the moral authority of the Sangha was weakened.\n\nRefugee Lao monks and anti-communist informants have reported that the situation in Laos was much more serious. Pressure against the Sangha increased between 1976 and 1979. One monk who left Vientiane in December 1976 said that pressure was only subtle and indirect. Monks who did not toe the party line were disciplined by the Sangha and monks were sent on re-education courses but none had been executed. By 1979, 1000 monks were reported to have been confined to re-education camps. Another monk who fled Southern Laos in May 1978 reported more heavy-handed methods. There were unverified reports that monks had been arrested and shot. In March 1979, the eighty-seven-year-old Sangharaja of Laos, Venerable Thammayano, fled to Thailand by floating across the Mekong on a raft of inflated car inner tubes. He had been confined to his monastery and was not allowed to preach (Zago 1978). He stated that youths were dissuaded from joining the Sangha and that monastic teachings had to adhere to government guidelines. There was a serious decrease in the number of monks in the Lao Sangha during this period. Some monks left the Sangha, many fled and some were sent to labour camps. Young novices were persuaded by the government to leave the Sangha with offers of secular training and education and special vocational schools were set up for them. This was not aided by the loss of prestige of the Lao Sangha, which was being seen as a tool of government policy. The significant number of monks who had escaped to Thailand and monks who aided the anti-communist insurgents demonstrates that the regime's attempt to co-opt the Sangha was not completely successful.\n\nThe official attitudes towards Buddhism began to liberalise, in tandem with economic liberalization in the late 1980s. The Buddhist Sangha has expanded their traditional roles. Previously, they focused on teaching Buddhism but they also assist in adult literacy programs after the formation of the Lao People's Democratic Republic. They teach the Lao language and other subjects in places where schools are not available or where teachers are not available. They play a prominent role in education, especially early education. They continue their role as traditional healers in a country where doctors are scarce. However, they are prohibited from issuing cures of a spiritualist nature. They can dispense traditional herbal cures and Western medicines. In this sense, the Buddhist Sangha have had to re-invent themselves by emphasising their utilitarian roles in Lao society. The Sangha has become seen as a preserver of national culture, especially in the maintenance of wats and monasteries. Buddhism has survived because it remains central to the cultural identity of Laos, and Buddhism is inextricably interwoven with Lao culture.\n\nBy the early 1990s, Buddhism was on the resurgence. The wat still remained as an important focus of social life. Lines of monks could accept morning offerings from the faithful without interference and attendance at Buddhist ceremonies increased again. At the annual Pha That Luang Festival, most members of the Politburo could be seen making offerings to monks. (Trenkell 2000, p. 198). Now party officials also engage more visibly in the worship of the relics enshrined in this monument and thereby reaffirm the relationship between Buddhism and the state - a long-standing feature of Buddhism, its cosmology and the political sphere. Moreover, in 2003 and 2010 the Ministry of Information and Culture inaugurated statues of King Fa Ngum and King Anouvong\".\" The rituals surrounding the worship of relics and statues have become displays of the patronage power of the Lao government that thereby is intending to connect itself to a glorious Buddhist past in order to increase its legitimacy in the present. However, many state rituals have also been carefully re-engineered since 1975.\n\nWhile government policy towards religion has liberalized, the Sangha remains under Party control and monks have to study official government policy. Since the 1990s, the Sangha has been re-oriented as a primarily religious organisation. With Buddhist institutions being still firmly integrated into the Party State, Buddhism and the language, moral values and lifestyles associated with it, are now again promoted as \"national culture\". Vatthana Pholsena describes this as \"a secularized image of Buddhism in order to reconcile the official ideology and the religion.\" A process of the Buddhification of the political sphere, but also everyday culture and is observable, at least in regions with a high proportion of ethnic Lao.\n\nBuddhist institutes for the training of monks have been devoting more time to the teaching of religious disciplines such as the foundation of the Dhamma, the disciplinary code, Pali, the life of the Buddha and the Buddhist canon. Monks appear to give talks on television and radio and they are allowed to give talks in schools and have access to patients in hospitals. Lately, a kind of socially engaged Buddhism has also developed in Laos. Monks are now active in HIV-and drug-prevention programs and expand into other areas that mix social work, environmental protection and education. The UNESCO world heritage status of Luang Prabang has also led to more global engagements of its Buddhist institutions: The highest ranking monk of Luang Prabang Maha Khamchan Virachitto (1920-2007) kept his transnational networks even during the time of socialism active, and has had a major impact on the resurgence of Buddhism in Laos (Boulyaphonh 2014, Sengsoulin 2014). The large collection of photos he left after his death, and those of other laypeople and monks taken over the last hundred years, are now being transformed into an archive that will be of great value for documenting the past of the religious culture of the city.\n\nLao Buddhist are very devout and almost every Lao man joins a monastery, or temple, for at least a short period of time. Many men also become monks for the rest of their lives. Most people donate food to the monks to gain merit and improve their karma. The temples of Laos were once seen as \"Universities\" for monks. Lao monks are highly respected and revered in Lao communities. Based on \nLaotian Buddhism, the women of Laos are taught that they can only attain nirvana after they have been reborn as men.\n\nThe Pha That Luang, Wat Sisakhet, Wat Xieng Thong, and That Dam are all Buddhist structures in Laos. Lao Buddhism is also famous for images of the Buddha performing uniquely Lao mudras, or gestures, such as calling for rain, and striking uniquely Lao poses such as showing the Buddha lying down and welcoming death, after which he would achieve Nirvana. During the colonial era, Henri Parmentier undertook a massive survey of Lao arts and architecture that remains of crucial value for the general documentation of this field before the destruction that took place in the 1960s and 1970s (Parmentier 1988).\n\nIn the Pra Lak Pra Lam, the Lao Ramayana, instead of having Rama portrayed as an incarnation of Vishnu, Rama is an incarnation of the Buddha. Lao people have also written many versions of the Jataka Tales. See the study by Sahai (1973) and Ladwig (2016) for more specific accounts of these narratives and their associated rituals, and especially Peltier (1987) for an excellent overview of the rich literary tradition of Laos. Louis Finot's extensive overview of Lao Buddhist manuscripts is somewhat dated, but remains one of the best studies ever undertaken on this subject (Finot 1917).\n\n\n\nAn interesting ethnographic documentary by Patrice Ladwig and Gregory Kourilsky, \"Caring for the Beyond: Two Lao Buddhist Festivals for the Deceased\" can be down loaded here: Bristol University Death Ritual Project.\n\nAn interesting description of sacred caves in Southeast Asia and their role in Buddhist practice can be found here:Sacred caves in Southeast Asia\n"}
{"id": "22266183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22266183", "title": "Buddhism in Wales", "text": "Buddhism in Wales\n\nBuddhism in Wales has a relatively short history, having only really established a presence in the country in the 20th Century. 9,117 people in Wales declared themselves Buddhist in the 2011 Census, representing a number of Buddhist traditions. Tibetan Buddhism is particularly well represented with branches of several different traditions and lineages, notably Lama Shenpen Hookham's Awakened Heart Sangha, based in North Wales. Zen Buddhism has several groups in Wales and three Soto Zen masters are currently resident and actively teaching. The Samatha Trust, a lay Theravada group, have their headquarters in Wales as does the Tibetan group, Awakened Heart Sangha. The Triratna Buddhist Community have a number of groups and a large Cardiff Buddhist Centre. The Nyingma Aro gTér Lineage has been active in Wales since 1981. The Aro gTér Lineage Holders, Ngak’chang Rinpoche and Khandro Déchen, are resident in Wales and have written a large number of publications about Vajrayana Buddhist practice (see Aro Books worldwide and Aro Books Inc). Another Welsh author of this lineage is Ngakma Nor’dzin Pamo who is a teacher at Aro Ling Cardiff.\n\nThe Buddhist Council of Wales has a growing number of Buddhist organisations and groups listed on their website. The Council is active in representing Buddhism and has two delegates on the National Assembly for Wales Faith Communities Forum and two on the Interfaith Council for Wales.\n\nOne notable Welsh person to have converted to Buddhism is former rugby star Ricky Evans. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2417868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2417868", "title": "Duk-Duk", "text": "Duk-Duk\n\nDuk-Duk is a secret society, part of the traditional culture of the Tolai people of the Rabaul area of New Britain, the largest island in the Bismarck Archipelago of Papua New Guinea, in the South Pacific. \nThe society has religious and political as well as social objectives. It represents a form of law and order through its presiding spirits. In ritual dances, members of the society invoke the male spirit \"duk duk\" and female spirit \"tubuan\" depending on which mask the dancer wears. The dancers are always male despite the fact that some are performing the role of female spirits. Women and children were forbidden to look at these figures. Both types of mask are cone-shaped and are constructed of cane and fibre, with short, bushy capes of leaves. Traditionally the \"duk duk\" was taller than the \"tubuan\" and was faceless. The \"tubuan\" had circular eyes and a crescent-shaped mouth painted on a dark background. In addition to the mask, leaves cover the torso of the dancers so that only their legs are visible.\n\nOnly males could belong to Duk-Duk, with an entrance fee (in dewarra, small cowry shells strung on strips of cane, often 100 metres or more).\n\nThe society has its secret signs and rituals, and festivals which were in past times closed to strangers on pain of death. Duk-Duk only appeared with the full moon.\n\nJustice was executed, fines extorted, taboos, feasts, taxes and all tribal matters arranged by the Duk-Duk members, wearing masks or chalk on their faces. In carrying out punishments, they were allowed to burn houses and even kill people. Dancers wearing the \"tubuan\" masks were regarded as divine beings whose judgment and actions could not be questioned.\n\nThe society's practice has been dying out since around the start of the 20th century, but Duk-Duk dancers are now featured as tourist attractions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "631822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=631822", "title": "Edward D. Hoch", "text": "Edward D. Hoch\n\nEdward Dentinger Hoch (February 22, 1930 – January 17, 2008) was an American writer of detective fiction. Although he wrote several novels, he was primarily known for his vast output of over 950 short stories.\n\nHoch (pronounced \"hoke\") was born in Rochester, New York and began writing in the 1950s; his first story appeared in 1955 in \"Famous Detective Stories\" and was followed by stories in \"The Saint Mystery Magazine\". In January 1962 he began appearing in \"Alfred Hitchcock's Mystery Magazine\". In December 1962 he kicked off his most successful collaboration, with the appearance of his first story in \"Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine\"; in the years since \"EQMM\" has published over 450 of Hoch's stories, roughly half of his total output. In May 1973 \"EQMM\" began publishing a new Hoch story in every monthly issue; as of May 2007 the author had gone an astonishing 34 years without missing a single issue.\n\nOther magazines Hoch wrote for included \"Adventure\", \"Double-Action Detective\",\n\"Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine\", \n\"Mike Shayne Mystery Magazine\", \"The Magazine of Horror\" and \"Web Detective Stories\".\n\nHoch was a master of the classic detective story, emphasizing mystery and deduction rather than suspense and fast action; \"EQMM\" has called him \"The King of the Classical Whodunit.\" His stories are very well written and are usually tightly plotted puzzles, with carefully and fairly presented clues, both physical and psychological. He was particularly partial to \"impossible crime\" tales, where to all appearances the crime (usually a murder) could not have been committed at all; he invented numerous variants on the locked room mystery popularized by John Dickson Carr and others. For instance, in \"The Second Problem of the Covered Bridge\", a man is shot at close range while alone on a covered bridge, while crowds of witnesses watch both ends of the bridge. Hoch cited Graham Greene, John Dickson Carr, \nEllery Queen and Jorge Luis Borges as influences on his fiction.\n\nHoch also published magazine stories under the names \"Stephen Dentinger\", \"R. L. Stevens\", \"Pat McMahon\", \"Anthony Circus\", \"Irwin Booth\", \"R. E. Porter\", \"Mr. X\" and the House Name \"Ellery Queen\". In many cases he also had a story under his own name in the same magazine issue. Hoch also wrote a novel published as Ellery Queen, under the supervision and editing of Manfred Lee, half of the writing partnership known as Ellery Queen.\n\nIn 2001 Hoch was named a Grand Master by the Mystery Writers of America, the first time a Grand Master was known primarily for short fiction rather than novels.\n\nHoch, a Catholic, died at home in Rochester of a heart attack, aged 77. His wife, née Patricia McMahon, was his only immediate survivor.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of Hoch's stories feature series characters. He has created at least a dozen different series of stories for \"EQMM\" alone. His Captain Leopold series reached over 100 stories.\n\n\nThese three science fiction novels, set in the mid-21st century, feature Carl Crader and Earl Jazine of the Computer Investigation Bureau, nicknamed the \"Computer Cops\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48774180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48774180", "title": "Elena Aiello", "text": "Elena Aiello\n\nBlessed Elena Aiello (10 April 1895 – 19 June 1961) was an Italian Roman Catholic professed religious and the founder of the Minim Sisters of the Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ. Aiello joined the Sisters of the Most Precious Blood but was forced to leave due to grave health that soon kept her confined to her home where she began experiencing visions of both Jesus Christ and the Madonna as well as saints such as Saint Francesco di Paola.\n\nHer beatification was celebrated on 14 September 2011.\n\nElena Aiello was born on 10 April 1895 during Lent in Cosenza to Pasquale Aiello (22 February 1861 – 16 November 1955) – a tailor – and Tereseina Paglilla (d. 1905) as the third of eight children – one died aged one; she received her baptism from Father Francesco Benincasa on 15 April in the church of San Domenico as \"Elena Emilia Santa Aiello\" with her godmother being Maria Genise. During the Procession of Rogations her mother said if she had a daughter she would name her in honor of Saint Elena. Her paternal grandparents were Francesco Antonio Maria Aiello (1833 – February 1902) and Teresa Nardi (29 November 1826–???); she had seven paternal aunts and uncles. The eldest sibling of hers was Emma (b. 1889) and so followed Fernando (b. 1892), Evangelina Isabella Rosina (b. 1896), Elisa Emilia Geltrude (b. 1898) and Ida (b. 1903) in addition to two others.\n\nAiello made her First Communion on 21 June 1904 (the Passionist priest Timoteo presided) after a spiritual retreat in preparation for that and she and some other girls later obtained permission to wear a penitential belt. En route to receive the belt she had an accident that saw two front teeth lost but she put them in her handkerchief and continued on the path to receive it despite the pain. Another occasion saw her inhale water from a glass she had in her hand while laughing and this caused a constant cough for over fourteen months at night and her voice volume decreased due to this; treatment made it worse. Aiello begged that the Madonna heal her and she came to her in a vision at night and assured her that it would be so. Her mother died in 1905. She received her Confirmation aged eleven from Bishop Camillo Sorgente and her sponsor was Donna Agnesina Turano.\n\nHer desire to become a nun was stalled for her father asked her to stall this until a more appropriate time due to World War I which was raging in Europe at the time; she instead focused on aiding refugees and on impacted victims. On one occasion she met a Freemason named Alessandro and failed to persuade him to receive the sacraments; she continued to persuade him but he instead took a bottle and flung it at her which struck her neck that bled. Aiello held a cloth to it and told him his soul was in danger and would not leave the room until he called for a priest to come in. Alessandro became so moved that he told her he'd receive the sacraments on the condition she continue to tend to him which she did for another three months.\n\nIn 1920 she joined the Sisters of the Most Precious Blood – her father directed her to that specific order for an unknown reason – but was later forced to leave that order due to a necrotic shoulder. Aiello had her shoulder operated on without anesthetic while holding a small wooden cross and looking at a Marian image but the inept doctor cut nerves that caused her lockjaw and a vomiting spell for several weeks. Aiello could not partake in the vesting, for her superior saw her situation to be so bad she could not participate in it, thus forcing her departure. The doctor told her father to sue the order for her ailments (her shoulder now had gangrene setting in) but she convinced him not to do so. Aiello also was diagnosed with stomach cancer and couldn't even retain liquefied food which prompted her doctor to deem her condition incurable – she placed her faith in Saint Rita for a cure which happened. These conditions were healed all of a sudden in 1921; Saint Rita herself appeared to Aiello in a dream one night.\n\nAiello began experiencing the stigmata each Good Friday from 1923 and this ended not long before her death. The first time this happened the Lord appeared in a white garment with the crown of thorns and placed it on her head prompting lots of blood to gush forth. The servant Rosaria was about to leave the house when she heard wailing and was petrified to see Aiello covered in blood believing someone murdered her. Rosaria rushed to get Aiello's relations who saw the blood but saw she was still alive and so contacted the doctor and several priests. The doctor attempted to halt the bleeding but could not do so for three hours. The nun also started experiencing visions of the Blessed Mother in 1947; she made predictions of future events following these visions. Aiello also experienced visions of Jesus Christ in addition to saints such as Saint Francesco di Paola and Saint Thérèse of Lisieux. On 28 January 1928 she founded a new religious order that she named the Minim Sisters of the Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ. Pope Pius XII knew of Aiello and was the one who issued pontifical approval for the order in July 1949.\n\nOn 22 April 1940 the Lord told her to deliver a message to Benito Mussolini to tell him not to join Adolf Hitler during World War II for that would bring both terrible defeat and divine punishment; this plea was left ignored in the form of a letter she had sent on 6 May 1940.\n\nAiello died at dawn at 6:19am on 19 June 1961 in Rome; she had received the Extreme Unction at 2:00am. Her remains were interred in the motherhouse of her order.\n\nThe beatification process opened on 7 January 1982 after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints issued the official \"nihil obstat\" to the cause and titled Aiello as a Servant of God; the cognitional process was held in Cosenza from 15 April 1982 until its closure on 7 February 1987 after which point the C.C.S. validated the cause in Rome on 18 November 1988 while later receiving the Positio dossier from the postulation in 1989 for assessment. Theologians approved the cause on 5 December 1989 as did the C.C.S. on 8 May 1990 while the confirmation of her heroic virtue allowed for Pope John Paul II to title her as Venerable on 22 January 1991.\n\nThe process for the beatification miracle spanned from 4 October to 20 December 2005 and received validation from the C.C.S. on 24 February 2006 prior to medical experts approving the healing to be a legitimate miracle on 1 February 2007. Theologians also approved this on 23 October 2010 as did the C.C.S. on 18 January 2011. Pope Benedict XVI decreed the healing to be a miracle on 2 April 2011 and thus confirmed her beatification; Cardinal Angelo Amato presided over the celebration on the pope's behalf on 14 September 2011 in Cosenza.\n\nThe current postulator for this cause is Father Enzo Gabrieli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19973947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19973947", "title": "Etiquette in Pakistan", "text": "Etiquette in Pakistan\n\nIn Pakistan, Islamic culture is predominant but Pakistan also has cultural etiquette based mainly on South Asian influence.\nIn urban Sindh and in other parts of the country, men and women usually lower their head and lift their hand to their forehead to make the \"adab\" gesture when greeting each other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6082334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6082334", "title": "Gideon (Book of Mormon)", "text": "Gideon (Book of Mormon)\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Gideon was a faithful Nephite leader, a strong man, and an enemy to King Noah. After King Noah's expulsion and death by fire, Gideon counseled with Noah's son, King Limhi. He proposed a plan for escaping from Lamanite bondage. Gideon grew to be an old man, and was killed by Nehor. After his death, a city of the Nephites was named after him.\n"}
{"id": "155469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155469", "title": "Gregorian chant", "text": "Gregorian chant\n\nGregorian chant is the central tradition of Western plainchant, a form of monophonic, unaccompanied sacred song of the Roman Catholic Church. Gregorian chant developed mainly in western and central Europe during the 9th and 10th centuries, with later additions and redactions. Although popular legend credits Pope Gregory I with inventing Gregorian chant, scholars believe that it arose from a later Carolingian synthesis of Roman chant and Gallican chant.\n\nGregorian chants were organized initially into four, then eight, and finally 12 modes. Typical melodic features include a characteristic ambitus, and also characteristic intervallic patterns relative to a referential mode final, incipits and cadences, the use of reciting tones at a particular distance from the final, around which the other notes of the melody revolve, and a vocabulary of musical motifs woven together through a process called centonization to create families of related chants. The scale patterns are organized against a background pattern formed of conjunct and disjunct tetrachords, producing a larger pitch system called the gamut. The chants can be sung by using six-note patterns called hexachords. Gregorian melodies are traditionally written using neumes, an early form of musical notation from which the modern four-line and five-line staff developed. Multi-voice elaborations of Gregorian chant, known as organum, were an early stage in the development of Western polyphony.\n\nGregorian chant was traditionally sung by choirs of men and boys in churches, or by men and women of religious orders in their chapels. It is the music of the Roman Rite, performed in the Mass and the monastic Office. Although Gregorian chant supplanted or marginalized the other indigenous plainchant traditions of the Christian West to become the official music of the Christian liturgy, Ambrosian chant still continues in use in Milan, and there are musicologists exploring both that and the Mozarabic chant of Christian Spain. Although Gregorian chant is no longer obligatory, the Roman Catholic Church still officially considers it the music most suitable for worship. During the 20th century, Gregorian chant underwent a musicological and popular resurgence.\n\nSinging has been part of the Christian liturgy since the earliest days of the Church. Until the mid-1990s, it was widely accepted that the psalmody of ancient Jewish worship significantly influenced and contributed to early Christian ritual and chant. This view is no longer generally accepted by scholars, due to analysis that shows that most early Christian hymns did not have Psalms for texts, and that the Psalms were not sung in synagogues for centuries after the Destruction of the Second Temple in AD 70. However, early Christian rites did incorporate elements of Jewish worship that survived in later chant tradition. Canonical hours have their roots in Jewish prayer hours. \"Amen\" and \"alleluia\" come from Hebrew, and the threefold \"sanctus\" derives from the threefold \"kadosh\" of the Kedushah.\n\nThe New Testament mentions singing hymns during the Last Supper: \"When they had sung the hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives\" . Other ancient witnesses such as Pope Clement I, Tertullian, St. Athanasius, and Egeria confirm the practice, although in poetic or obscure ways that shed little light on how music sounded during this period. The 3rd-century Greek \"Oxyrhynchus hymn\" survived with musical notation, but the connection between this hymn and the plainchant tradition is uncertain.\n\nMusical elements that would later be used in the Roman Rite began to appear in the 3rd century. The \"Apostolic Tradition\", attributed to the theologian Hippolytus, attests the singing of Hallel psalms with Alleluia as the refrain in early Christian \"agape\" feasts. Chants of the Office, sung during the canonical hours, have their roots in the early 4th century, when desert monks following St. Anthony introduced the practice of continuous psalmody, singing the complete cycle of 150 psalms each week. Around 375, antiphonal psalmody became popular in the Christian East; in 386, St. Ambrose introduced this practice to the West. In the fifth century, a singing school, the Schola Cantorum, was founded at Rome to provide training in church musicianship.\n\nScholars are still debating how plainchant developed during the 5th through the 9th centuries, as information from this period is scarce. Around 410, St. Augustine described the responsorial singing of a Gradual psalm at Mass. At c. 520, Benedict of Nursia established what is called the rule of St. Benedict, in which the protocol of the Divine Office for monastic use was laid down. Around 678, Roman chant was taught at York. Distinctive regional traditions of Western plainchant arose during this period, notably in the British Isles (Celtic chant), Spain (Mozarabic), Gaul (Gallican), and Italy (Old Roman, Ambrosian and Beneventan). These traditions may have evolved from a hypothetical year-round repertory of 5th-century plainchant after the western Roman Empire collapsed.\n\nJohn the Deacon, biographer (c. 872) of Pope Gregory I, modestly claimed that the saint \"compiled a patchwork antiphonary\", unsurprisingly, given his considerable work with liturgical development. He reorganized the Schola Cantorum and established a more uniform standard in church services, gathering chants from among the regional traditions as widely as he could manage. Of those, he retained what he could, revised where necessary, and assigned particular chants to the various services. According to Donald Jay Grout, his goal was to organize the bodies of chants from diverse traditions into a uniform and orderly whole for use by the entire western region of the Church. His renowned love for music was recorded only 34 years after his death; the epitaph of Honorius testified that comparison to Gregory was already considered the highest praise for a music-loving pope. While later legends magnified his real achievements, these significant steps may account for why his name came to be attached to Gregorian chant.\n\nThe Gregorian repertory was further systematized for use in the Roman Rite, and scholars weigh the relative influences of Roman and Carolingian practices upon the development of plainchant. The late 8th century saw a steadily increasing influence of the Carolingian monarchs over the popes. During a visit to Gaul in 752–753, Pope Stephen II celebrated Mass using Roman chant. According to Charlemagne, his father Pepin abolished the local Gallican Rites in favor of the Roman use, in order to strengthen ties with Rome. Thirty years later (785–786), at Charlemagne's request, Pope Adrian I sent a papal sacramentary with Roman chants to the Carolingian court. According to James McKinnon, over a brief period in the 8th century, a project overseen by Chrodegang of Metz in the favorable atmosphere of the Carolingian monarchs, also compiled the core liturgy of the Roman Mass and promoted its use in Francia and throughout Gaul.\n\nWilli Apel and Robert Snow assert a scholarly consensus that Gregorian chant developed around 750 from a synthesis of Roman and Gallican chants, and was commissioned by the Carolingian rulers in France. Andreas Pfisterer and Peter Jeffery have shown that older melodic essentials from Roman chant are clear in the synthesized chant repertory. There were other developments as well. Chants were modified, influenced by local styles and Gallican chant, and fitted into the theory of the ancient Greek octoechos system of modes in a manner that created what later came to be known as the western system of the eight church modes. The Metz project also invented an innovative musical notation, using freeform neumes to show the shape of a remembered melody. This notation was further developed over time, culminating in the introduction of staff lines (attributed to Guido d'Arezzo) in the early 11th century, what we know today as plainchant notation. The whole body of Frankish-Roman Carolingian chant, augmented with new chants to complete the liturgical year, coalesced into a single body of chant that was called \"Gregorian.\"\n\nThe changes made in the new system of chants were so significant that they have led some scholars to speculate that it was named in honor of the contemporary Pope Gregory II. Nevertheless, the lore surrounding Pope Gregory I was sufficient to culminate in his portrayal as the actual author of Gregorian Chant. He was often depicted as receiving the dictation of plainchant from a dove representing the Holy Spirit, thus giving Gregorian chant the stamp of being divinely inspired. Scholars agree that the melodic content of much Gregorian Chant did not exist in that form in Gregory I's day. In addition, it is known definitively that the familiar neumatic system for notating plainchant had not been established in his time. Nevertheless, Gregory's authorship is popularly accepted by some as fact to this day.\n\nGregorian chant appeared in a remarkably uniform state across Europe within a short time. Charlemagne, once elevated to Holy Roman Emperor, aggressively spread Gregorian chant throughout his empire to consolidate religious and secular power, requiring the clergy to use the new repertory on pain of death. From English and German sources, Gregorian chant spread north to Scandinavia, Iceland and Finland. In 885, Pope Stephen V banned the Slavonic liturgy, leading to the ascendancy of Gregorian chant in Eastern Catholic lands including Poland, Moravia and Slovakia.\n\nThe other plainchant repertories of the Christian West faced severe competition from the new Gregorian chant. Charlemagne continued his father's policy of favoring the Roman Rite over the local Gallican traditions. By the 9th century the Gallican rite and chant had effectively been eliminated, although not without local resistance. The Gregorian chant of the Sarum Rite displaced Celtic chant. Gregorian coexisted with Beneventan chant for over a century before Beneventan chant was abolished by papal decree (1058). Mozarabic chant survived the influx of the Visigoths and Moors, but not the Roman-backed prelates newly installed in Spain during the Reconquista. Restricted to a handful of dedicated chapels, modern Mozarabic chant is highly Gregorianized and bears no musical resemblance to its original form. Ambrosian chant alone survived to the present day, preserved in Milan due to the musical reputation and ecclesiastical authority of St. Ambrose.\n\nGregorian chant eventually replaced the local chant tradition of Rome itself, which is now known as Old Roman chant. In the 10th century, virtually no musical manuscripts were being notated in Italy. Instead, Roman Popes imported Gregorian chant from (German) Holy Roman Emperors during the 10th and 11th centuries. For example, the Credo was added to the Roman Rite at the behest of the Emperor Henry II in 1014. Reinforced by the legend of Pope Gregory, Gregorian chant was taken to be the authentic, original chant of Rome, a misconception that continues to this day. By the 12th and 13th centuries, Gregorian chant had supplanted or marginalized all the other Western plainchant traditions.\n\nLater sources of these other chant traditions show an increasing Gregorian influence, such as occasional efforts to categorize their chants into the Gregorian modes. Similarly, the Gregorian repertory incorporated elements of these lost plainchant traditions, which can be identified by careful stylistic and historical analysis. For example, the \"Improperia\" of Good Friday are believed to be a remnant of the Gallican repertory.\n\nThe first extant sources with musical notation were written around 930 (Graduale Laon). Before this, plainchant had been transmitted orally. Most scholars of Gregorian chant agree that the development of music notation assisted the dissemination of chant across Europe. The earlier notated manuscripts are primarily from Regensburg in Germany, St. Gall in Switzerland, Laon and St. Martial in France.\n\nGregorian chant has in its long history been subjected to a series of redactions to bring it up to changing contemporary tastes and practice. The more recent redaction undertaken in the Benedictine Abbey of St. Pierre, Solesmes, has turned into a huge undertaking to restore the allegedly corrupted chant to a hypothetical \"original\" state. Early Gregorian chant was revised to conform to the theoretical structure of the modes. In 1562–63, the Council of Trent banned most sequences. Guidette's \"Directorium chori\", published in 1582, and the \"Editio medicea\", published in 1614, drastically revised what was perceived as corrupt and flawed \"barbarism\" by making the chants conform to contemporary aesthetic standards. In 1811, the French musicologist Alexandre-Étienne Choron, as part of a conservative backlash following the liberal Catholic orders' inefficacy during the French Revolution, called for returning to the \"purer\" Gregorian chant of Rome over French corruptions.\n\nIn the late 19th century, early liturgical and musical manuscripts were unearthed and edited. Earlier, Dom Prosper Guéranger revived the monastic tradition in Solesmes. Re-establishing the Divine Office was among his priorities, but no proper chantbooks existed. Many monks were sent out to libraries throughout Europe to find relevant Chant manuscripts. In 1871, however, the old Medicea edition was reprinted (Pustet, Regensburg) which Pope Pius IX declared the only official version. In their firm belief that they were on the right way, Solesmes increased its efforts. In 1889, after decades of research, the monks of Solesmes released the first book in a planned series, the Paléographie Musicale. The incentive of its publication was to demonstrate the corruption of the 'Medicea' by presenting photographed notations originating from a great variety of manuscripts of one single chant, which Solesmes called forth as witnesses to assert their own reforms.\n\nThe monks of Solesmes brought in their heaviest artillery in this battle, as indeed the academically sound 'Paleo' was intended to be a war-tank, meant to abolish once and for all the corrupted Pustet edition. On the evidence of congruence throughout various manuscripts (which were duly published in facsimile editions with ample editorial introductions) Solesmes was able to work out a practical reconstruction. This reconstructed chant was academically praised, but rejected by Rome until 1903, when Pope Leo XIII died. His successor, Pope Pius X, promptly accepted the Solesmes chant – now compiled as the \"Liber Usualis\" – as authoritative. In 1904, the Vatican edition of the Solesmes chant was commissioned. Serious academic debates arose, primarily owing to stylistic liberties taken by the Solesmes editors to impose their controversial interpretation of rhythm. The Solesmes editions insert phrasing marks and note-lengthening \"episema\" and \"mora\" marks not found in the original sources.\n\nConversely, they omit significative letters found in the original sources, which give instructions for rhythm and articulation such as speeding up or slowing down. These editorial practices has placed the historical authenticity of the Solesmes interpretation in doubt. Ever since restoration of Chant was taken up in Solesmes, there have been lengthy discussions of exactly what course was to be taken. Some favored a strict academic rigour and wanted to postpone publications, while others concentrated on practical matters and wanted to supplant the corrupted tradition as soon as possible. Roughly a century later, there still exists a breach between a strict musicological approach and the practical needs of church choirs. Thus the performance tradition officially promulgated since the onset of the Solesmes restoration is substantially at odds with musicological evidence.\n\nIn his motu proprio \"Tra le sollecitudini\", Pius X mandated the use of Gregorian chant, encouraging the faithful to sing the Ordinary of the Mass, although he reserved the singing of the Propers for males. While this custom is maintained in traditionalist Catholic communities (most of which allow all-female scholas as well, though), the Catholic Church no longer persists with this ban. Vatican II officially allowed worshipers to substitute other music, particularly sacred polyphony, in place of Gregorian chant, although it did reaffirm that Gregorian chant was still the official music of the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, and the music most suitable for worship in the Roman Liturgy.\n\nGregorian chant is, as 'chant' implies, vocal music. The text, the phrases, words and eventually the syllables, can be sung in various ways. The most straightforward is recitation on the same tone, which is called \"syllabic\" as each syllable is sung to a single tone. Likewise, simple chants are often syllabic throughout with only a few instances where two or more notes are sung on one syllable. \"Neumatic\" chants are more embellished and ligatures, a connected group of notes, written as a single compound neume, abound in the text. Melismatic chants are the most ornate chants in which elaborate melodies are sung on long sustained vowels as in the Alleluia, ranging from five or six notes per syllable to over sixty in the more prolix melismata.\nGregorian chants fall into two broad categories of melody: recitatives and free melodies. The simplest kind of melody is the liturgical recitative. Recitative melodies are dominated by a single pitch, called the \"reciting tone\". Other pitches appear in melodic formulae for incipits, partial cadences, and full cadences. These chants are primarily syllabic. For example, the Collect for Easter consists of 127 syllables sung to 131 pitches, with 108 of these pitches being the reciting note A and the other 23 pitches flexing down to G. Liturgical recitatives are commonly found in the accentus chants of the liturgy, such as the intonations of the Collect, Epistle, and Gospel during the Mass, and in the direct psalmody of the Office.\n\nPsalmodic chants, which intone psalms, include both recitatives and free melodies. Psalmodic chants include \"direct psalmody\", \"antiphonal chants\", and \"responsorial chants\". In direct psalmody, psalm verses are sung without refrains to simple, formulaic tones. Most psalmodic chants are antiphonal and responsorial, sung to free melodies of varying complexity.\n\nAntiphonal chants such as the Introit, and Communion originally referred to chants in which two choirs sang in alternation, one choir singing verses of a psalm, the other singing a refrain called an \"antiphon\". Over time, the verses were reduced in number, usually to just one psalm verse and the doxology, or even omitted entirely. Antiphonal chants reflect their ancient origins as elaborate recitatives through the reciting tones in their melodies. Ordinary chants, such as the Kyrie and Gloria, are not considered antiphonal chants, although they are often performed in antiphonal style.\n\nResponsorial chants such as the Gradual, Alleluia, Offertory, and the Office Responsories originally consisted of a refrain called a \"respond\" sung by a choir, alternating with psalm verses sung by a soloist. Responsorial chants are often composed of an amalgamation of various stock musical phrases, pieced together in a practice called \"centonization\". Tracts are melismatic settings of psalm verses and use frequent recurring cadences and they are strongly centonized.\n\nGregorian chant evolved to fulfill various functions in the Roman Catholic liturgy. Broadly speaking, liturgical recitatives are used for texts intoned by deacons or priests. Antiphonal chants accompany liturgical actions: the entrance of the officiant, the collection of offerings, and the distribution of sanctified bread and wine. Responsorial chants expand on readings and lessons.\n\nThe non-psalmodic chants, including the Ordinary of the Mass, sequences, and hymns, were originally intended for congregational singing. The structure of their texts largely defines their musical style. In sequences, the same melodic phrase is repeated in each couplet. The strophic texts of hymns use the same syllabic melody for each stanza.\n\nEarly plainchant, like much of Western music, is believed to have been distinguished by the use of the diatonic scale. Modal theory, which postdates the composition of the core chant repertory, arises from a synthesis of two very different traditions: the speculative tradition of numerical ratios and species inherited from ancient Greece and a second tradition rooted in the practical art of cantus. The earliest writings that deal with both theory and practice include the Enchiriadis group of treatises, which circulated in the late ninth century and possibly have their roots in an earlier, oral tradition. In contrast to the ancient Greek system of tetrachords (a collection of four continuous notes) that descend by two tones and a semitone, the Enchiriadis writings base their tone-system on a tetrachord that corresponds to the four finals of chant, D, E, F, and G. The disjunct tetrachords in the Enchiriadis system have been the subject of much speculation, because they do not correspond to the diatonic framework that became the standard Medieval scale (for example, there is a high F#, a note not recognized by later Medieval writers). A diatonic scale with a chromatically alterable b/b-flat was first described by Hucbald, who adopted the tetrachord of the finals (D, E, F, G) and constructed the rest of the system following the model of the Greek Greater and Lesser Perfect Systems. These were the first steps in forging a theoretical tradition that corresponded to chant.\n\nAround 1025, Guido d'Arezzo revolutionized Western music with the development of the \"gamut\", in which pitches in the singing range were organized into overlapping hexachords. Hexachords could be built on C (the natural hexachord, C-D-E^F-G-A), F (the soft hexachord, using a B-flat, F-G-A^Bb-C-D), or G (the hard hexachord, using a B-natural, G-A-B^C-D-E). The B-flat was an integral part of the system of hexachords rather than an accidental. The use of notes outside of this collection was described as musica ficta.\n\nGregorian chant was categorized into eight modes, influenced by the eightfold division of Byzantine chants called the \"oktoechos\". Each mode is distinguished by its \"final\", \"dominant\", and \"ambitus\". The \"final\" is the ending note, which is usually an important note in the overall structure of the melody. The \"dominant\" is a secondary pitch that usually serves as a reciting tone in the melody. \"Ambitus\" refers to the range of pitches used in the melody. Melodies whose final is in the middle of the ambitus, or which have only a limited ambitus, are categorized as \"plagal\", while melodies whose final is in the lower end of the ambitus and have a range of over five or six notes are categorized as \"authentic\". Although corresponding plagal and authentic modes have the same final, they have different dominants. The existent pseudo-Greek names of the modes, rarely used in medieval times, derive from a misunderstanding of the Ancient Greek modes; the prefix \"hypo-\" (under, Gr.) indicates a plagal mode, where the melody moves below the final. In contemporary Latin manuscripts the modes are simply called Protus authentus /plagalis, Deuterus, Tritus and Tetrardus: the 1st mode, authentic or plagal, the 2nd mode etc. In the Roman Chantbooks the modes are indicated by Roman numerals.\n\nAlthough the modes with melodies ending on A, B, and C are sometimes referred to as Aeolian, Locrian, and Ionian, these are not considered distinct modes and are treated as transpositions of whichever mode uses the same set of hexachords. The actual pitch of the Gregorian chant is not fixed, so the piece can be sung in whichever range is most comfortable.\n\nCertain classes of Gregorian chant have a separate musical formula for each mode, allowing one section of the chant to transition smoothly into the next section, such as the psalm verses that are sung between the repetition of antiphons, or the Gloria Patri. Thus we find models for the recitation of psalmverses, Alleluia and Gloria Patri for all eight modes.\n\nNot every Gregorian chant fits neatly into Guido's hexachords or into the system of eight modes. For example, there are chants — especially from German sources – whose neumes suggest a warbling of pitches between the notes E and F, outside the hexachord system, or in other words, employing a form of chromatism. Early Gregorian chant, like Ambrosian and Old Roman chant, whose melodies are most closely related to Gregorian, did not use the modal system. The great need for a system of organizing chants lies in the need to link antiphons with standard tones, as in for example, the psalmody at the Office. Using Psalm Tone i with an antiphon in Mode 1 makes for a smooth transition between the end of the antiphon and the intonation of the tone, and the ending of the tone can then be chosen to provide a smooth transition back to the antiphon. As the modal system gained acceptance, Gregorian chants were edited to conform to the modes, especially during 12th-century Cistercian reforms. Finals were altered, melodic ranges reduced, melismata trimmed, B-flats eliminated, and repeated words removed. Despite these attempts to impose modal consistency, some chants — notably Communions — defy simple modal assignment. For example, in four medieval manuscripts, the Communion \"Circuibo\" was transcribed using a different mode in each.\n\nSeveral features besides modality contribute to the musical idiom of Gregorian chant, giving it a distinctive musical flavor. Melodic motion is primarily stepwise. Skips of a third are common, and larger skips far more common than in other plainchant repertories such as Ambrosian chant or Beneventan chant. Gregorian melodies are more likely to traverse a seventh than a full octave, so that melodies rarely travel from D up to the D an octave higher, but often travel from D to the C a seventh higher, using such patterns as D-F-G-A-C. Gregorian melodies often explore chains of pitches, such as F-A-C, around which the other notes of the chant gravitate. Within each mode, certain incipits and cadences are preferred, which the modal theory alone does not explain. Chants often display complex internal structures that combine and repeat musical subphrases. This occurs notably in the Offertories; in chants with shorter, repeating texts such as the Kyrie and Agnus Dei; and in longer chants with clear textual divisions such as the Great Responsories, the Gloria, and the Credo.\n\nChants sometimes fall into melodically related groups. The musical phrases centonized to create Graduals and Tracts follow a musical \"grammar\" of sorts. Certain phrases are used only at the beginnings of chants, or only at the end, or only in certain combinations, creating musical families of chants such as the \"Iustus ut palma\" family of Graduals. Several Introits in mode 3, including \"Loquetur Dominus\" above, exhibit melodic similarities. Mode III (E authentic) chants have C as a dominant, so C is the expected reciting tone. These mode III Introits, however, use both G and C as reciting tones, and often begin with a decorated leap from G to C to establish this tonality. Similar examples exist throughout the repertory.\n\nThe earliest notated sources of Gregorian chant (written ca. 950) used symbols called \"neumes\" (Gr. sign, of the hand) to indicate tone-movements and relative duration within each syllable. A sort of musical stenography that seems to focus on gestures and tone-movements but not the specific pitches of individual notes, nor the relative starting pitches of each neume. Given the fact that Chant was learned in an oral tradition in which the texts and melodies were sung from memory, this was obviously not necessary. The neumatic manuscripts display great sophistication and precision in notation and a wealth of graphic signs to indicate the musical gesture and proper pronunciation of the text.\nScholars postulate that this practice may have been derived from cheironomic hand-gestures, the ekphonetic notation of Byzantine chant, punctuation marks, or diacritical accents. Later adaptations and innovations included the use of a dry-scratched line or an inked line or two lines, marked C or F showing the relative pitches between neumes. Consistent relative heightening first developed in the Aquitaine region, particularly at St. Martial de Limoges, in the first half of the eleventh century. Many German-speaking areas, however, continued to use unpitched neumes into the twelfth century. Additional symbols developed, such as the \"custos\", placed at the end of a system to show the next pitch. Other symbols indicated changes in articulation, duration, or tempo, such as a letter \"t\" to indicate a tenuto. Another form of early notation used a system of letters corresponding to different pitches, much as Shaker music is notated.\nBy the 13th century, the neumes of Gregorian chant were usually written in \"square notation\" on a four-line staff with a clef, as in the \"Graduale Aboense\" pictured above. In square notation, small groups of ascending notes on a syllable are shown as stacked squares, read from bottom to top, while descending notes are written with diamonds read from left to right. When a syllable has a large number of notes, a series of smaller such groups of neumes are written in succession, read from left to right. The oriscus, quilisma, and liquescent neumes indicate special vocal treatments, that have been largely neglected due to uncertainty as to how to sing them. Since the 1970s, with the influential insights of Dom Eugène Cardine (see below under 'rhythm'), ornamental neumes have received more attention from both researchers and performers.\nB-flat is indicated by a \"b-mollum\" (Lat. soft), a rounded undercaste 'b' placed to the left of the entire neume in which the note occurs, as shown in the \"Kyrie\" to the right. When necessary, a \"b-durum\" (Lat. hard), written squarely, indicates B-natural and serves to cancel the b-mollum. This system of square notation is standard in modern chantbooks.\n\nGregorian chant was originally used for singing the Office (by male and female religious) and for singing the parts of the Mass pertaining to the lay faithful (male and female), the celebrant (priest, always male) and the choir (composed of male ordained clergy, except in convents). Outside the larger cities, the number of available clergy dropped, and lay men started singing these parts. The choir was considered an official liturgical duty reserved to clergy, so women were not allowed to sing in the \"Schola Cantorum\" or other choirs except in convents where women were permitted to sing the Office and the parts of the Mass pertaining to the choir as a function of their consecrated life.\n\nChant was normally sung in unison. Later innovations included \"tropes\", which is a new text sung to the same melodic phrases in a melismatic chant (repeating an entire Alleluia-melody on a new text for instance, or repeating a full phrase with a new text that comments on the previously sung text) and various forms of \"organum\", (improvised) harmonic embellishment of chant melodies focusing on octaves, fifths, fourths, and, later, thirds. Neither tropes nor organum, however, belong to the chant repertory proper. The main exception to this is the sequence, whose origins lay in troping the extended melisma of Alleluia chants known as the jubilus, but the sequences, like the tropes, were later officially suppressed. The Council of Trent struck sequences from the Gregorian corpus, except those for Easter, Pentecost, Corpus Christi and All Souls' Day.\n\nNot much is known about the particular vocal stylings or performance practices used for Gregorian chant in the Middle Ages. On occasion, the clergy was urged to have their singers perform with more restraint and piety. This suggests that virtuosic performances occurred, contrary to the modern stereotype of Gregorian chant as slow-moving mood music. This tension between musicality and piety goes far back; Gregory the Great himself criticized the practice of promoting clerics based on their charming singing rather than their preaching. However, Odo of Cluny, a renowned monastic reformer, praised the intellectual and musical virtuosity to be found in chant:\n\nTrue antiphonal performance by two alternating choruses still occurs, as in certain German monasteries. However, antiphonal chants are generally performed in responsorial style by a solo cantor alternating with a chorus. This practice appears to have begun in the Middle Ages. Another medieval innovation had the solo cantor sing the opening words of responsorial chants, with the full chorus finishing the end of the opening phrase. This innovation allowed the soloist to fix the pitch of the chant for the chorus and to cue the choral entrance.\n\nGiven the oral teaching tradition of Gregorian chant, modern reconstruction of intended rhythm from the written notation of Gregorian chant has always been a source of debate among modern scholars. To complicate matters further, many ornamental neumes used in the earliest manuscripts pose difficulties on the interpretation of rhythm. Certain neumes such as the \"pressus\", pes quassus, strophic neumes may indicate repeated notes, lengthening by repercussion, in some cases with added ornaments. By the 13th century, with the widespread use of square notation, most chant was sung with an approximately equal duration allotted to each note, although Jerome of Moravia cites exceptions in which certain notes, such as the final notes of a chant, are lengthened.\n\nWhile the standard repertory of Gregorian Chant was partly being supplanted with new forms of polyphony, the earlier melo-rhythmic refinements of monophonic chant seem to fall into disuse. Later redactions such as the \"Editio medicaea\" of 1614 rewrote chant so that melismata, with their melodic accent, fell on accented syllables. This aesthetic held sway until the re-examination of chant in the late 19th century by such scholars as Wagner, Pothier, and Mocquereau, who fell into two camps.\n\nOne school of thought, including Wagner, Jammers, and Lipphardt, advocated imposing rhythmic meters on chants, although they disagreed on how that should be done. An opposing interpretation, represented by Pothier and Mocquereau, supported a free rhythm of equal note values, although some notes are lengthened for textual emphasis or musical effect. The modern Solesmes editions of Gregorian chant follow this interpretation. Mocquereau divided melodies into two- and three-note phrases, each beginning with an \"ictus\", akin to a beat, notated in chantbooks as a small vertical mark. These basic melodic units combined into larger phrases through a complex system expressed by cheironomic hand-gestures. This approach prevailed during the twentieth century, propagated by Justine Ward's program of music education for children, until the liturgical role of chant was diminished after the liturgical reforms of Paul VI, and new scholarship \"essentially discredited\" Mocquereau's rhythmic theories.\n\nCommon modern practice favors performing Gregorian chant with no beat or regular metric accent, largely for aesthetic reasons. The text determines the accent while the melodic contour determines the phrasing. The note lengthenings recommended by the Solesmes school remain influential, though not prescriptive.\n\nDom Eugene Cardine, (1905–1988) monk from Solesmes, published his 'Semiologie Gregorienne' in 1970 in which he clearly explains the musical significance of the neumes of the early chant manuscripts. Cardine shows the great diversity of neumes and graphic variations of the basic shape of a particular neume, which can not be expressed in the square notation. This variety in notation must have served a practical purpose and therefore a musical significance. Nine years later, the Graduale Triplex was published, in which the Roman Gradual, containing all the chants for Mass in a Year's cycle, appeared with the neumes of the two most important manuscripts copied under and over the 4-line staff of the square notation. The Graduale Triplex made widely accessible the original notation of Sankt Gallen and Laon (compiled after 930 AD) in a single chantbook and was a huge step forward. Dom Cardine had many students who have each in their own way continued their semiological studies, some of whom also started experimenting in applying the newly understood principles in performance practice.\n\nThe studies of Cardine and his students (Godehard Joppich, Luigi Augustoni, Johannes B. Göschl, Marie-Noël Colette, Rupert Fischer, Marie-Claire Billecocq, Alexander M. Schweitzer to name a few) have clearly demonstrated that rhythm in Gregorian chant as notated in the 10th century rhythmic manuscripts (notably Skt. Gallen and Laon) manifest such rhythmic diversity and melodic – rhythmic ornamentations for which there is hardly a living performance tradition in the Western world. Contemporary groups that endeavour to sing according to the manuscript traditions have evolved after 1975. Some practising researchers favour a closer look at non Western (liturgical) traditions, in such cultures where the tradition of modal monophony was never abandoned.\n\nAnother group with different views are the mensuralists or the proportionalists, who maintain that rhythm has to be interpreted proportionately, where shorts are exactly half the longs. This school of interpretation claims the support of historical authorities such as St Augustine, Remigius, Guido and Aribo. This view is advocated by John Blackley and his 'Schola Antiqua New York'.\n\nRecent research in the Netherlands by Dr. Dirk van Kampen has indicated that the authentic rhythm of Gregorian chant in the 10th century includes both proportional elements and elements that are in agreement with semiology. Starting with the expectation that the rhythm of Gregorian chant (and thus the duration of the individual notes) anyway adds to the expressivity of the sacred Latin texts, several word-related variables were studied for their relationship with several neume-related variables, exploring these relationships in a sample of introit chants using such statistical methods as correlational analysis and multiple regression analysis.\n\nBeside the length of the syllables (measured in tenths of seconds), each text syllable was evaluated in terms of its position within the word to which it belongs, defining such variables as \"the syllable has or has not the main accent\", \"the syllable is or is not at the end of a word\", etc., and in terms of the particular sounds produced (for instance, the syllable contains the vowel \"i\"). The various neume elements were evaluated by attaching different duration values to them, both in terms of semiological propositions (nuanced durations according to the manner of neume writing in Chris Hakkennes’ Graduale Lagal), and in terms of fixed duration values that were based on mensuralistic notions, however with ratios between short and long notes ranging from 1 : 1, via 1 : 1.2, 1 : 1.4, etc. to 1 : 3. To distinguish short and long notes, tables were consulted that were established by Van Kampen in an unpublished comparative study regarding the neume notations according to St Gallen and Laon codices. With some exceptions, these tables confirm the short vs. long distinctions in Cardine’s 'Semiologie Gregorienne'.\n\nThe lengths of the neumes were given values by adding up the duration values for the separate neume elements, each time following a particular hypothesis concerning the rhythm of Gregoriant chant. Both the syllable lengths and the neume lengths were also expressed in relation to the total duration of the syllables, resp. neumes for a word (contextual variables). Correlating the various word and neume variables, substantial correlations were found for the word variables 'accented syllable' and 'contextual syllable duration'. Moreover, it could be established that the multiple correlation (\"R\") between the two types of variables reaches its maximum (\"R\" is about 0.80) if the neumatic elements are evaluated according to the following rules of duration: (a) neume elements that represent short notes in neumes consisting of at least two notes have duration values of 1 time; (b) neume elements that represent long notes in neumes consisting of at least two notes have duration values of 2 times; (c) neumes consisting of only one note are characterized by flexible duration values (with an average value of 2 times), which take over the duration values of the syllables to match.\n\nThe distinction between the first two rules and the latter rule can also be found in early treatises on music, introducing the terms \"metrum\" and \"rhythmus\". As it could also be demonstrated by Van Kampen that melodic peaks often coincide with the word accent (see also), the conclusion seems warranted that the Gregorian melodies enhance the expressiveness of the Latin words by mimicking to some extent both the accentuation of the sacred words (pitch differences between neumes) and the relative duration of the word syllables (by paying attention to well-defined length differences between the individual notes of a neume).\n\nDuring the seventeenth through nineteenth centuries in France, the system of rhythmic notation became standardized, with printers and editors of chant books employing only four rhythmic values. Recent research by Christopher Holman indicates that chants whose texts are in a regular meter could even be altered to be performed in Time signatures.\n\nRecent developments involve an intensifying of the semiological approach according to Dom Cardine, which also gave a new impetus to the research into melodic variants in various manuscripts of chant. On the basis of this ongoing research it has become obvious that the Graduale and other chantbooks contain many melodic errors, some very consistently, (the mis-interpretation of third and eighth mode) necessitating a new edition of the Graduale according to state-of-the-art melodic restitutions. Since the 1970 a melodic restitution group of AISCGre (International Society for the Study of Gregorian Chant) has worked on an \"editio magis critica\" as requested by the 2. Vatican Council Constitution \"Sacrosanctum Concilium\". As a response to this need and following the Holy See's invitation to edit a more critical edition, in 2011 the first volume \"De Dominicis et Festis\" of the \"Graduale Novum Editio Magis Critica Iuxta SC 117\"was published by Libreria Editrice Vatican and ConBrio Verlagsgesellschaft, Regensburg.\n\nIn this approach the so-called earlier 'rhythmic' manuscripts of unheightened neumes that carry a wealth of melo-rhythmic information but not of exact pitches, are compared in large tables of comparison with relevant later 'melodic' manuscripts' that are written on lines or use double alphabetic and neumes notation over the text, but as a rule have less rhythmic refinement compared to the earlier group. However, the comparison between the two groups has made it possible to correct what are obvious mistakes. In other instances it is not so easy to find a consensus. In 1984 Chris Hakkennes published his own transcription of the Graduale Triplex. He devised a new graphic adaptation of square notation 'simplex' in which he integrated the rhythmic indications of the two most relevant sources, that of Laon and Skt. Gallen.\n\nReferring to these manuscripts, he called his own transcription Gradual Lagal. Furthermore, while making the transcription, he cross-checked with the melodic manuscripts to correct modal errors or other melodic errors found in the Graduale Romanum. His intention was to provide a corrected melody in rhythmic notation but above all – he was also a choirmaster – suited for practical use, therefore a simplex, integrated notation. Although fully admitting the importance of Hakkennes' melodic revisions, the rhythmical solution suggested in the Graduale Lagal was actually found by Van Kampen (see above) to be rather modestly related to the text of the chant.\n\nGregorian chant is sung in the Office during the canonical hours and in the liturgy of the Mass. Texts known as \"accentus\" are intoned by bishops, priests, and deacons, mostly on a single reciting tone with simple melodic formulae at certain places in each sentence. More complex chants are sung by trained soloists and choirs. The Graduale Romanum contains the proper chants of the Mass (i.e., Introit, Gradual, Alleluia, Tract, Offertory, Communion) and the complete Kyriale (the collection of Mass Ordinary settings). The \"Liber usualis\" contains the chants for the Graduale Romanum and the most commonly used Office chants.\n\nThe Introit, Gradual, Alleluia, Tract, Sequence, Offertory and Communion chants are part of the Proper of the Mass. \"Proprium Missae\" in Latin refers to the chants of the Mass that have their proper individual texts for each Sunday throughout the annual cycle, as opposed to 'Ordinarium Missae' which have fixed texts (but various melodies) (Kyrie, Sanctus, Benedictus, Agnus Dei).\n\nIntroits cover the procession of the officiants. Introits are antiphonal chants, typically consisting of an antiphon, a psalm verse, a repeat of the antiphon, an intonation of the Gloria Patri Doxology, and a final repeat of the antiphon. Reciting tones often dominate their melodic structures.\n\nGraduals are responsorial chants that follow the reading of the Epistle. Graduals usually result from \"centonization\"; stock musical phrases are assembled like a patchwork to create the full melody of the chant, creating families of musically related melodies. Graduals are accompanied by an elaborate Verse, so that it actually consists in two different parts, A B. Often the first part is sung again, creating a 'rondeau' A B A. At least the verse, if not the complete gradual, is for the solo cantor and are in elaborate, ornate style with long, wide-ranged melismata.\n\nThe Alleluia is known for the \"jubilus\", an extended joyful melisma on the last vowel of 'Alleluia'. The Alleluia is also in two parts, the alleluia proper and the psalmverse, by which the Alleluia is identified (Alleluia V. Pascha nostrum). The last melisma of the verse is the same as the jubilus attached to the Alleluia. Alleluias are not sung during penitential times, such as Lent. Instead, a Tract is chanted, usually with texts from the Psalms. Tracts, like Graduals, are highly centonized.\n\nSequences are sung poems based on couplets. Although many sequences are not part of the liturgy and thus not part of the Gregorian repertory proper, Gregorian sequences include such well-known chants as \"Victimae paschali laudes\" and \"Veni Sancte Spiritus\". According to Notker Balbulus, an early sequence writer, their origins lie in the addition of words to the long melismata of the jubilus of Alleluia chants.\n\nOffertories are sung during the offering of Eucharistic bread and wine. Offertories once had highly prolix melodies in their verses, but the use of verses in Gregorian Offertories disappeared around the 12th century. These verses however, are among the most ornate and elaborated in the whole chant repertoire. Offertories are in form closest to Responsories, which are likewise accompanied by at least one Verse and the opening sections of both Off. and Resp. are partly repeated after the verse(s). This last section is therefore called the 'repetenda' and is in performance the last melodic line of the chant.\n\nCommunions are sung during the distribution of the Eucharist. In presentation the Communio is similar to the Introitus, an antiphon with a series of psalm verses. Communion melodies are often tonally ambiguous and do not fit into a single musical mode which has led to the same communio being classed in different modes in different manuscripts or editions.\n\nThe Kyrie, Gloria, Credo, Sanctus, Benedictus and Agnus Dei use the same text in every service of the Mass. Because they follow the regular invariable \"order\" of the Mass, these chants are called \"Ordinary\".\n\nThe Kyrie consists of a threefold repetition of \"Kyrie eleison\" (\"Lord, have mercy\"), a threefold repetition of \"Christe eleison\" (\"Christ have mercy\"), followed by another threefold repetition of \"Kyrie eleison.\" In older chants, \"Kyrie eleison imas\" (\"Lord, have mercy on us\") can be found. The Kyrie is distinguished by its use of the Greek language instead of Latin. Because of the textual repetition, various musical repeat structures occur in these chants. The following, Kyrie ad. lib. VI as transmitted in a Cambrai manuscript, uses the form ABA CDC EFE', with shifts in tessitura between sections. The E' section, on the final \"Kyrie eleison\", itself has an aa'b structure, contributing to the sense of climax.\nThe Gloria recites the Greater Doxology, and the Credo intones the Nicene Creed. Because of the length of these texts, these chants often break into musical subsections corresponding with textual breaks. Because the Credo was the last Ordinary chant to be added to the Mass, there are relatively few Credo melodies in the Gregorian corpus.\n\nThe Sanctus and the Agnus Dei, like the Kyrie, also contain repeated texts, which their musical structures often exploit.\n\nTechnically, the Ite missa est and the Benedicamus Domino, which conclude the Mass, belong to the Ordinary. They have their own Gregorian melodies, but because they are short and simple, and have rarely been the subject of later musical composition, they are often omitted in discussion.\n\nGregorian chant is sung in the canonical hours of the monastic Office, primarily in antiphons used to sing the Psalms, in the Great Responsories of Matins, and the Short Responsories of the Lesser Hours and Compline. The psalm antiphons of the Office tend to be short and simple, especially compared to the complex Great Responsories.\n\nAt the close of the Office, one of four \"Marian antiphons\" is sung. These songs, \"Alma Redemptoris Mater\" (see top of article), \"Ave Regina caelorum\", \"Regina caeli laetare\", and \"Salve, Regina\", are relatively late chants, dating to the 11th century, and considerably more complex than most Office antiphons. Willi Apel has described these four songs as \"among the most beautiful creations of the late Middle Ages.\"\n\nGregorian chant had a significant impact on the development of medieval and Renaissance music. Modern staff notation developed directly from Gregorian neumes. The square notation that had been devised for plainchant was borrowed and adapted for other kinds of music. Certain groupings of neumes were used to indicate repeating rhythms called rhythmic modes. Rounded noteheads increasingly replaced the older squares and lozenges in the 15th and 16th centuries, although chantbooks conservatively maintained the square notation. By the 16th century, the fifth line added to the musical staff had become standard. The bass clef and the flat, natural, and sharp accidentals derived directly from Gregorian notation.\n\nGregorian melodies provided musical material and served as models for tropes and liturgical dramas. Vernacular hymns such as \"Christ ist erstanden\" and \"Nun bitten wir den Heiligen Geist\" adapted original Gregorian melodies to translated texts. Secular tunes such as the popular Renaissance \"In Nomine\" were based on Gregorian melodies. Beginning with the improvised harmonizations of Gregorian chant known as organum, Gregorian chants became a driving force in medieval and Renaissance polyphony. Often, a Gregorian chant (sometimes in modified form) would be used as a \"cantus firmus\", so that the consecutive notes of the chant determined the harmonic progression. The Marian antiphons, especially \"Alma Redemptoris Mater\", were frequently arranged by Renaissance composers. The use of chant as a cantus firmus was the predominant practice until the Baroque period, when the stronger harmonic progressions made possible by an independent bass line became standard.\n\nThe Catholic Church later allowed polyphonic arrangements to replace the Gregorian chant of the Ordinary of the Mass. This is why the Mass as a compositional form, as set by composers like Palestrina or Mozart, features a Kyrie but not an Introit. The Propers may also be replaced by choral settings on certain solemn occasions. Among the composers who most frequently wrote polyphonic settings of the Propers were William Byrd and Tomás Luis de Victoria. These polyphonic arrangements usually incorporate elements of the original chant.\n\nThe monks of Solesmes, discussed above for their revival of Gregorian chant, issued a number of recordings. However, when Gregorian chant as plainchant experienced a popular resurgence during the new-age and world-music movements of the 1980s and '90s, the iconic album was somewhat unexpectedly \"Chant\", recorded by the Benedictine monks of Santo Domingo de Silos, Spain. This was marketed as music to inspire timeless calm and serenity. In 2008, the Cistercian Monks of Austrian Heiligenkreuz Abbey released the CD \"Chant – Music for Paradise\", which became the best-selling album of the Austrian pop charts and peaked #7 of the UK charts. In the US, the album was released under the title \"Chant – Music for the Soul\" and peaked at #4 on the Billboard classical charts.\n\nIt became conventional wisdom that listening to Gregorian chant increased the production of alpha waves in the brain, reinforcing the popular reputation of Gregorian chant as tranquilizing music. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225811", "title": "Halizah", "text": "Halizah\n\nHalizah (or chalitzah ; ) is, under the Biblical system of levirate marriage known as \"yibbum\", the process by which a childless widow and a brother of her deceased husband may avoid the duty to marry.\n\nThe process involves the widow making a declaration, taking off a shoe of the brother (i.e. her brother-in-law), and spitting in his face. Through this ceremony, the brother and any other brothers are released from the obligation of marrying the woman for the purpose of conceiving a child which would be considered the progeny of the deceased man. The ceremony of chalitzah makes the widow free to marry whomever she desires ().\n\nIt is sufficient for only one brother-in-law to perform the ceremony. The mode of levirate marriage () is thus modified in the Deuteronomic code attributed to Moses, by permitting the surviving brother to refuse to marry his brother's widow, provided he submits to the ceremony of \"halizah\". In the Talmudic period the tendency against the original mode was intensified by apprehension that the brother-in-law might desire to marry his brother's widow for motives other than that of \"establishing a name unto his brother.\" Therefore, many Talmudic and later rabbis preferred \"halizah\" to actual marriage (Yevamot 39b). Thus the ancient institution of the levirate marriage fell into disuse, so that at present \"halizah\" is the general rule and marriage the rare exception (Shulkhan Arukh, Eben ha-'Ezer, 165, and commentaries).\n\nIn theory, however, the Biblical law of levirate marriage is still presumed in force, thus making the childless widow who remarries someone other than her brother-in-law without performing the \"halizah\" ceremony an adulterer.\n\nDeuteronomy describes the ceremony simply. In the presence of town elders, the widow recites a prescribed formula which scolds him for not building his brother's household, loosens the shoe of the brother-in-law, and spits in his face. In the Talmud, however, the rabbis explained the ceremony as a more solemn and public act. The ceremony must take place before a court of three, who need not be very learned, but must at least understand Hebrew (Yevamot 101a; Shulkhan Arukh, Even ha-`Ezer, 169, 1). All those who are disqualified from testifying in legal matters are disqualified also from acting on this board of judges (Yevamot 101a). These three appoint two others to assist them, and at the service on the evening preceding the day of the ceremony they appoint a place for its performance, to give the matter more publicity. The place chosen is usually the synagogue court or the house of the rabbi, although the ceremony may take place in the house of the widow. All investigations into the concerned parties are conducted the previous day, on which both are instructed in ceremony details, and on which the \"yebamah\" (widowed sister-in-law) is not allowed to eat. The \"halizah\" should not be performed in the evening (Yevamot 104a), nor on a Sabbath or a holiday (Beitzah 36b), nor on the eve of a Sabbath or a holiday (\"Terumat ha-Deshen\", § 227).\n\nOn the day set for the \"halizah\", immediately after the morning service, when all the people are still in the synagogue, the three judges and their two assistants, who also act as witnesses, meet at the appointed place. The three judges sit on one bench, the two assistants on a bench placed beside it; the \"yabam\" (brother-in-law) and the \"yebamah\" stand between them. Before the ceremony, a public examination establishes the relationship of the parties and their maturity. If one is a minor, a deaf-mute, a mute, or mentally handicapped, or has a crooked or turned foot, the \"halizah\" cannot be performed. The court must also know whether she is left-handed or whether he is left-footed, and must be convinced that more than ninety-one days have passed since the death of her husband (see Jewish views of marriage: Divorce; Levirate marriage).\n\nTo establish these matters it is not necessary to have legally eligible witnesses. Even those who are otherwise disqualified from testifying may become witnesses. Both the \"yabam\" and the \"yebamah\" must be made aware of the fact that by this ceremony the widow becomes free to marry whomever she may desire.\n\nAfter these preliminary details, and after the \"yabam\" makes a public declaration that he has not been forced by outside influence to submit to the \"halizah\", but acts of his own free will, the ceremony commences. The shoe, which is usually the property of the community, is brought forth and examined as to cleanliness and construction, in accordance with the precepts of the law. The \"halizah\" shoe is made entirely of leather, usually from the hide of a kosher animal.\n\nIt is made of two pieces, the upper part and the sole, sewn together with leather threads. Three small straps are attached to the front of the shoe, each of which has a knot (\"humrata\") at the top to fit a hole made on the other side of the shoe. Two white leather straps attach to either side of the shoe and fasten it to the leg.\n\nThe \"yabam\" must have his right foot, on which the shoe is placed, washed very scrupulously, and after he has strapped it on he must walk four cubits in the presence of the judges. Then the chief judge reads the following passage, which the \"yebamah\" repeats word for word: \nThen the \"yabam\" repeats the sentence: \nHe then presses his right foot against the floor while she loosens the straps with her right hand and, holding his leg in her left hand, takes off the shoe and throws it some distance away. Then she places herself in front of the \"yabam\", spits on the floor in front of him, and repeats these words after the presiding judge:\nShe repeats the last phrase three times and the assembly recites it three times after her. Then the \"yabam\" returns the shoe to the court, and the judges say:\nAs they rise, the chief of the judges says:\nAll the passages recited by the \"yabam\" and by the \"yebamah\" must be read in Hebrew as they are found in the original in Deuteronomy. If the parties do not understand Hebrew the passages must be translated for them (Even ha-`Ezer, 169; \"Seder Halizah\" and commentaries ad loc.).\n\nThe ceremony of loosening the shoe has been explained in various ways. From the incident in the Book of Ruth (), which certainly refers to this ancient custom, it seems the loosening of the shoe symbolized a transfer of rights, and had no stigma attached to it. Some later rabbis—Yechiel of Paris, for instance—say the removal of the shoe symbolized the entrance into a state of mourning. From the time the \"yabam\" refused to marry his brother's widow and thus perpetuate his name in Israel, the brother was considered dead, and the \"yebamah\", by drawing off his shoe, thus declared to him that from that time on he was a mourner (\"Perush Seder Halizah,\" 82; comp. Weill, \"La Femme Juive,\" part iv., ch. v., Paris, 1874).\n\nAnother possibility comes from \"Wesley's Notes\": \n\nA similar example of renouncing rights by removing one's shoe, in this case the renunciation of rights to redeem one's brother's land, appears in the Book of Ruth in the \"ketubim\".\n\nTo prevent the \"yabam\" from extorting money from the widow who wishes release from the shackles of perpetual widowhood, the Rabbis established the institution of the \"shetar halizah\" (\"\"halizah\" document\"). This institution provides that at a young couple's marriage, all brothers must sign a document pledging to submit to \"halizah\" without remuneration, in case their brother dies childless (\"Nahalat Shib'ah,\" p. 22, Warsaw, 1884). In the case of a minor brother, who could not legally sign the document, the institution of the \"shetar bit'hon halizah\", established by the Rabbis for such cases, had the father of the bridegroom promise to pay money to the bride if the minor son should later refuse the \"halizah\" ceremony (ib. 23; comp. \"Pithe Teshubah\"; Eben ha-'Ezer, 165, note 10; See Inheritance). The practice of signing these \"halizah\" documents has fallen out of currency in North America.\n\nAlthough rare, Orthodox Jews still observe halizah in all its details when the occasion requires. There are generally between 10 and 20 ceremonies per year in Israel.\n\nThe Reform view, as expressed in various treatises written by the leaders of the movement, and as adopted at the different rabbinical conferences held in Germany and in America, is that the ceremony of \"halizah\" is not essential to the remarriage of the widow. The Philadelphia Conference (1869) resolved that \"The precept of levirate marriage and of \"halizah\" has lost to us all meaning, import, and binding force.\" The Second Israelite Synod, held in Augsburg (1871), passed a resolution to the same effect, adding that \"For the sake of liberty of conscience, however, no rabbi will refuse, on request of the parties, to conduct the ceremony of \"halizah\" in a proper form.\"\n\n\nThis article draws on the corresponding article in the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\"\n"}
{"id": "10567847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10567847", "title": "Havardia albicans", "text": "Havardia albicans\n\nHavardia albicans is a perennial tree of the family Fabaceae that grows to 5 meters tall. It is native to Mexico, the Caribbean and Central America, in regions around the Yucatan Peninsula. Common names for it include chucum and cuisache. It is reputed to be psychoactive.\n\nJunior synonyms are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32875770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32875770", "title": "Hsin Tao", "text": "Hsin Tao\n\nHsin Tao or Hsin-tao (; born 1948 in Lashio, Myanmar), born Yang Jinsheng (), is a Buddhist monk who set up the Ling Jiou Mountain Buddhist Foundation in 1989.\n\nHe is also known for his efforts in international and interfaith dialog, especially on dialog with some Muslim groups.\n\nHsin Tao was born in Burma, where his family had emigrated from Yunnan in China. At the age of 9, he joined a guerrilla group and engaged in warfare for the next four years. Then, when he was 13 years old, he followed the Republic of China Army to Taiwan. He became interested in the Yiguandao religion when he was 15, still serving in the Army. He was discharged at the age of twenty.\n\nHe was ordained as a novice monk in 1973 at the age of 25 under Venerable Master Hsing Yun at Fo Guang Shan, and entered Tsung Lin Buddhist College at the same time. The next year, he went to a mountainous area of Taipei city, Waishuanghsi(外雙溪), and meditated there for over eighteen hours a day. The following year (1975), Hsin Tao sought out an even more remote location, in Yilan County, to continue his practice. At the age of 31 (1979), he moved to Longtan, Yilan, where he continued to meditate, for twenty hours each day. Three years later (1982, age 34), he began a six month retreat, including long fasts, with neither food or water. In 1983, he moved to a mountain overlooking the eastern coast of Taiwan in Fulong. His daily diet was nine \"hundred flower pills\" (百花丸，a type of Chinese medicine) and spring water.\n\nHe later founded the Ling Jiou Mountain Monastery in 1983. Through the Ling Jiou Mountain Buddhist Foundation, he founded the Museum of World Religions (世界宗教博物館) in the Yonghe District of New Taipei City, Taiwan, in 2001. He founded the Global Family for Love and Peace in New York, United States, in 2002.\nHe is also interested in interfaith dialogue and currently sits on the Board of World Religious Leaders for the Elijah Interfaith Institute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23801170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23801170", "title": "Hufaidh", "text": "Hufaidh\n\nHufaidh is a mythical island in the marshes of southern Iraq, believed to exist by the Ma'dan or Marsh Arabs.\n\nThe Ma'dan informants of the traveller Wilfred Thesiger asserted that:\n\nR.S.M. Sturges (Political Officer at Qurnah in 1920) shared with Thesiger a possible connection between Hufaidh and the biblical Garden of Eden. Sturges wrote about the local legend of “a lost island in the marshes bearing luscious fruits and guarded . . . On certain nights it shone with a radiance visible for many miles. It seemed to move like some out-size will-o'-the-wisp and eluded all attempts to track it down . . . I saw it myself once – a strong diffused glow as of the full moon just below the horizon.” \n\nThesiger's host, Sadam, earlier related that “One of the Fartus saw it, years ago, when I was a child. He was looking for buffalo and when he came back his speech was all muddled up, and we knew he had seen Hufaidh.\"\n\nHe further said, “Saihut, the great AIbu Muhammad sheikh, searched for Hufaidh with a fleet of canoes in the days of the Turks, but he found nothing.\n\nWhen Thesiger made some skeptical comment Sadam emphatically said, \"No, Sahib, Hufaidh is there all right. Ask anyone, the sheikhs or the Government. Everyone knows about Hufaidh.\" \n\nThe island is, perhaps, analogous to the Irish mythical island of Hy-Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "6921288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6921288", "title": "Institute of the Good Shepherd", "text": "Institute of the Good Shepherd\n\nThe Institute of the Good Shepherd () is a Catholic society of apostolic life of traditionalist Catholic priests in full communion with the Holy See.\n\nFather Paul Aulagnier, who had been provincial superior of the Society of Saint Pius X in France from 1976 to 1994 was expelled in 2003 for having spoken in favour of the 2002 agreement between the Holy See and the priests of Campos, Brazil who form the Personal Apostolic Administration of Saint John Mary Vianney. These priests were authorised to use the Tridentine form of the Roman Rite on the condition of recognising the Second Vatican Council \"in the light of Tradition\" and the validity of the revised Roman Missal promulgated by Pope Paul VI.\n\nIn August 2004 Father Philippe Laguérie was expelled for having complained that the Society of Saint Pius X had serious problems which discouraged priestly vocations in its seminaries. As a disciplinary measure he had been transferred to Mexico, but refused the assignment.\n\nFather Laguérie had for many years been in charge of the church of Saint-Nicolas-du-Chardonnet in Paris, occupied by traditionalist Catholics since 1977. In 1993, he made an attempt to take over another Paris church, the Church of Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois. He carried out the operation successfully at Bordeaux, obtaining the approval of the city council, but not of the archbishop's office, to take over the church of Saint-Eloi in January 2002.\n\nFather Christophe Héry was expelled for supporting Laguérie, as was Father Guillaume de Tanoüarn. The latter was the founder of the religious association of Saint-Marcel and the Saint-Paul Centre in Paris.\n\nOn 15 June 2006, a French court in Nanterre (chambre du Tribunal de grande instance de Nanterre) ordered the reinstatement of Fathers Laguérie and Héry.\n\nThey had already decided to embark on a new path (while, according to at least one of them, remaining members of the Society of St Pius X). On 8 September 2006, the liturgical feast of Our Lady's Birthday, they, together with Father Henri Forestier, who also was stationed in Bordeaux, formed the Institute of the Good Shepherd, a society of apostolic life in full communion with the Holy See. Several seminarians joined the new fraternity, some of them close to ordination, and Cardinal Darío Castrillón Hoyos, who signed the decree approving their constitutions for a preliminary experimental period of five years, promised to confer the sacrament of orders on them.\n\nFather Laguérie had declared in March 2006 that agreement with the Holy See was required by the very constitution of the Catholic Church, and he asked his parishioners to take note of the signs of good will on the part of Rome and of its intention to put an end to the doctrinal turmoil and the scandals of 1960-2000. He pointed to an address of Pope Benedict as a condemnation of using \"the spirit of the Council\" as a pretext for excesses.\n\nThe Holy See granted the members of the new institute use, as the institute's own rite, of the \"Tridentine\" form of the Roman Rite, employing the 1962 Roman Missal. For their part, each of the founding members personally undertook to respect the authentic Magisterium of the See of Rome with \"complete fidelity to the infallible Magisterium of the Church.\" The members of the institute may engage in a criticism of the Second Vatican Council that is serious and constructive and in accord with Pope Benedict XVI's address of 22 December 2005 to the Roman Curia, while recognizing that it is for the Apostolic See to give the authentic interpretation.\n\nIn less than five months, by 6 February 2007, membership had grown to ten priests and two deacons - one close to priestly ordination - incardinated in the institute and listed by name on Father Laguérie's blog. In its two formation houses it also had a not-yet-incardinated deacon, a subdeacon and eight other seminarians. There was one brother (a lay member of the institute). The ordination on 3 March 2007 added another two priests, while maintaining the number of deacons at two. Priests from many places were requesting incardination, but the institute exercised prudence in their regard.\n\nCardinal Castrillón fulfilled the promise he made when the Institute was founded and on 22 September 2007 ordained five priests of the Institute, one of whom was a former member of the Society of St. Pius X. The archbishop of Bordeaux and president of the French episcopal conference, Jean-Pierre Ricard, was present.\n\nBy 8 September 2008, the priests of the Institute had grown to 18, and the seminarians to 30. The priests became 22 in the following month and 24 in the spring of 2009.\n\nIn September 2009, the Institute had in France a house of formation for its seminarians studying philosophy, and a residence in Rome for its students of theology. It had eight Mass centres in France, and one in each of five other countries: Chile, Colombia, Italy, Poland and Spain. It also had three schools. The Institute of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd had come into existence with two Sisters taking the veil.\n\nAs of 2015 the Institute had 33 priestly members. They opened a house on Home headed by Father Raffray who was assisted by Father Giorgio Lenzi.\n\nOn 1 November 2006, Father Rafael Navas Ortiz was nominated superior for the Latin America District. Today, as mentioned above, the district has 3 houses: one in Santiago, Chile and another in Bogotà, Colombia.\n\nThere were unconfirmed rumours in February 2008 that Cardinal Francisco Javier Errázuriz Ossa, the Archbishop of Santiago, Chile ordered the Institute to cease celebrating the Tridentine Mass and leave the country. It is not authorized to celebrate the Tridentine Mass publicly in Santiago and his celebrations are therefore of private character, as permitted by the motu proprio Summorum Pontificum.\n\nIn March, 2011, an independent chapel located in Bogota, Colombia was officially incardinated into the IBP by the Archbishop of Bogota, and is now officially recognized by the Archdiocese. The priest of the chapel has been given faculties to say public Masses (TLM) and hear confessions.\n\nIn Brasil the Institute has two churches, one in Brasília and one in São Paulo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1449016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449016", "title": "Interpretatio graeca", "text": "Interpretatio graeca\n\nInterpretatio graeca (Latin, \"Greek translation\" or \"interpretation by means of Greek [models]\") is a discourse in which ancient Greek religious concepts and practices, deities, and myths are used to interpret or attempt to understand the mythology and religion of other cultures. It is thus a comparative methodology that looks for equivalencies and shared characteristics. The phrase may describe Greek efforts to explain others' beliefs and myths, as when Herodotus describes Egyptian religion in terms of perceived Greek analogues, or when Dionysius of Halicarnassus and Plutarch document Roman cults, temples, and practices under the names of equivalent Greek deities. \"Interpretatio graeca\" may also describe non-Greeks' interpretation of their own belief systems by comparison or assimilation with Greek models, as when Romans adapt Greek myths and iconography under the names of their own gods.\n\nInterpretatio romana is comparative discourse in reference to ancient Roman religion and myth, as in the formation of a distinctive Gallo-Roman religion. Both the Romans and the Gauls reinterpreted Gallic religious traditions in relation to Roman models, particularly Imperial cult.\n\nJan Assmann considers the polytheistic approach to internationalizing gods as a form of \"intercultural translation\":\n\nThe great achievement of polytheism is the articulation of a common semantic universe. ... The meaning of a deity is his or her specific character as it unfolded in myths, hymns, rites, and so on. This character makes a deity comparable to other deities with similar traits. The similarity of gods makes their names mutually translatable. … The practice of translating the names of the gods created a concept of similarity and produced the idea or conviction that the gods are international.\n\nPliny the Elder expressed the \"translatability\" of deities as \"different names to different peoples\" \"(nomina alia aliis gentibus).\" This capacity made possible the religious syncretism of the Hellenistic era and the pre-Christian Roman Empire.\n\nHerodotus was one of the earliest authors to engage in this form of interpretation. In his observations regarding the Egyptians, he establishes Greco-Egyptian equivalents that endured into the Hellenistic era, including Amon/Zeus, Osiris/Dionysus, and Ptah/Hephaestus. In his observations regarding the Scythians, he equates their queen of the gods, Tabiti, to Hestia, Papaios and Api to Zeus and Gaia respectively, and Argimpasa to Aphrodite Urania, whilst also claiming that the Scythians worshipped equivalents to Herakles and Ares, but which he doesn't name.\n\nSome pairs of Greek and Roman gods, such as Zeus and Jupiter, are thought to derive from a common Indo-European archetype (Dyeus as the supreme sky god), and thus exhibit shared functions by nature. Others required more expansive theological and poetic efforts: though both Ares and Mars are war gods, Ares was a relatively minor figure in Greek religious practice and deprecated by the poets, while Mars was a father of the Roman people and a central figure of archaic Roman religion.\n\nSome deities dating to Rome's oldest religious stratum, such as Janus and Terminus, had no Greek equivalent. Other Greek divine figures, most notably Apollo, were adopted directly into Roman culture, but underwent a distinctly Roman development, as when Augustus made Apollo one of his patron deities. In the early period, Etruscan culture played an intermediary role in transmitting Greek myth and religion to the Romans, as evidenced in the linguistic transformation of Greek \"Heracles\" to Etruscan \"Her[e]cle\" to Roman \"Hercules\".\n\nThe phrase \"interpretatio romana\" was first used by the Imperial-era historian Tacitus in the \"Germania\". Tacitus reports that in a sacred grove of the Nahanarvali, \"a priest adorned as a woman presides, but they commemorate gods who in Roman terms \"(interpretatione romana)\" are Castor and Pollux.\" Elsewhere, he identifies the principal god of the Germans as Mercury, perhaps referring to Wotan.\n\nSome information about the deities of the ancient Gauls (the continental Celts), who left no written literature other than inscriptions, is preserved by Greco-Roman sources under the names of Greek and Latin equivalents. A large number of Gaulish theonyms or cult titles are preserved, for instance, in association with Mars. As with some Greek and Roman divine counterparts, the perceived similarities between a Gallic and a Roman or Greek deity may reflect a common Indo-European origin. Lugh was identified with Mercury, Nodens with Mars as healer and protector, Sulis with Minerva. In some cases, however, a Gallic deity is given an \"interpretatio romana\" by means of more than one god, varying among literary texts or inscriptions. Since the religions of the Greco-Roman world were not dogmatic, and polytheism lent itself to multiplicity, the concept of \"deity\" was often expansive, permitting multiple and even contradictory functions within a single divinity, and overlapping powers and functions among the diverse figures of each pantheon. These tendencies extended to cross-cultural identifications.\n\nIn the Eastern empire, the Anatolian storm god with his double-headed axe became Jupiter Dolichenus, a favorite cult figure among soldiers. Roman scholars such as Varro interpreted the monotheistic god of the Jews into Roman terms as Caelus or Jupiter Optimus Maximus. Some Greco-Roman authors seem to have understood the Jewish invocation of Yahweh Sabaoth as Sabazius.\n\n\"Interpretatio germanica\" is the practice by the Germanic peoples of identifying Roman gods with the names of Germanic deities. According to Rudolf Simek, this occurred around the 1st century of the common era, when both cultures came into closer contact. Some evidence for \"interpretatio germanica\" exists in the Germanic translations of the Roman names for the days of the week:\n\n\nIn most of the Romance languages, which derive from Latin, days of the week still preserve the names of the original Roman deities, such as the Italian for Tuesday, \"martedì\" (from the Latin \"Martis dies\"). This is also the case with Saturn in some West Germanic languages; such as the English \"Saturday\", the West Frisian \"\", the Low German \"\" and the Dutch \"\" all meaning Saturn's day.\n\nSimek emphasizes the paucity of evidence and notes that comparison with Roman gods is insufficient to reconstruct ancient Germanic gods and equate them definitively with those of later Norse mythology.\n\nThe following is a list of Greek, Roman, Etruscan, Egyptian, and Phoenician equivalents, based on usage among the ancients themselves, supported by the analyses of modern scholars. \"Equivalent\" should not be taken to mean \"the same god\". For instance, when the myths or even cult practices of a particular Roman deity were influenced by the Greek or Etruscan tradition, the deity may have had an independent origin and a tradition that is culturally distinctive.\n\nFrom the Roman point of view, it was natural to apply the above principle also to the Jewish God Jehovah and equate him with Jupiter. However, the Jews – unlike other people living under Roman rule – rejected out of hand any such attempt, regarding such an identification as the worst of sacrilege. This complete divergence of views was one of the factors contributing to the frequent friction between the Jews and the Roman Empire – for example, the Emperor Hadrian's decision to rebuild Jerusalem under the name of Aelia Capitolina, a city dedicated to Jupiter, precipitated the bloodbath of the Bar Kokhba revolt.\n\nIn late antiquity mysticism, the sun god Helios is sometimes equated to the Judeo-Christian God.\n\nExamples of deities depicted in syncretic compositions by means of \"interpretatio graeca\" or \"romana\":\n\n"}
{"id": "1795569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1795569", "title": "Inyan", "text": "Inyan\n\nIn Lakota mythology, Íŋyaŋ (Rock) was the first of the powerful spirits. He existed before the beginning. He then created Maka and gave it the spirit Makȟá-akáŋl (Earth spirit), the second of the spirit beings and a part of Íŋyaŋ. After creating Makȟá, Íŋyaŋ was very weak. He created miniature versions of Makȟá, and her lover, father sky. Those miniatures were humans. This effort made Íŋyaŋ hard and powerless. His blood became the blue waters and the sky.\n"}
{"id": "39050179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39050179", "title": "Irreligion in Bulgaria", "text": "Irreligion in Bulgaria\n\nIrreligion in Bulgaria is rare as Christianity and Islam\nare the major religions. However, over 9% of Bulgarians decided to answer \"nothing\" the question on religion when asked during the census. During the communist era, State Atheism was enforced in the country.\n"}
{"id": "36572001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36572001", "title": "Irreligion in Switzerland", "text": "Irreligion in Switzerland\n\nAccording to the 2001 Swiss Census poll, 4.3% identified as having no religion.\n\nRegarding personal belief, the 2005 Eurobarometer poll found that 48% of Swiss citizens expressed belief \"that there is a God\", 39% expressed belief in \"some sort of spirit or life force\", while 9% answered that they did not believe that \"there is any sort of spirit, God, or life force\". Religion has declined in Switzerland.\n"}
{"id": "1186519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1186519", "title": "Islam in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Islam in the United Arab Emirates\n\nIslam is the official religion of the United Arab Emirates. More than 80% of the population of the United Arab Emirates are non-citizens. Virtually all Emirati citizens are Muslims; approximately 85% are Sunni and 15% are Shi'a. There are smaller number of Ismaili Shias and Ahmadi. Foreigners are predominantly from South and Southeast Asia, although there are substantial numbers from the Middle East, Europe, Central Asia, the former Commonwealth of Independent States, and North America. The Al Nahayan and Al Maktoum ruling families adhere to the Maliki school of Islamic jurisprudence from the Uyunid dynasty, whom spread of the Maliki school came by the command of Sheikh Abdullah bin Ali Al Uyuni.\n\nThere are more Sunni than Shiite Muslims among the residents. There are also smaller number of Ismaili Shias and Ahmadi. The UAE's judicial system is derived from the civil law system and Sharia law. The court system consists of civil courts and Sharia courts. According to Human Rights Watch, UAE's criminal and civil courts apply elements of Sharia law, codified into its criminal code and family law. \n\nSharia courts in the UAE have a significant amount of authority. Flogging is a punishment for criminal offences such as adultery, premarital sex and alcohol consumption. Due to Sharia courts, flogging is legal with sentences ranging from 80 to 200 lashes. Between 2007 and 2013, many people in the UAE were sentenced to 100 lashes. In Abu Dhabi, people have been sentenced to 80 lashes for kissing in public. Several Muslims in Abu Dhabi and Ajman were sentenced to 80 lashes for alcohol consumption. An Estonian soldier in 2006 was sentenced to 40 lashes for being drunk. Several people have been sentenced to 60 lashes for illicit sex. Sharia courts have penalized domestic workers with floggings. Under UAE law, premarital sex is punishable by 100 lashes.\n\nStoning is a legal punishment in the UAE. In 2006, an expatriate was sentenced to death by stoning for committing adultery. Between 2009 and 2013, several people were sentenced to death by stoning. In May 2014, an Asian housemaid was sentenced to death by stoning in Abu Dhabi.\n\nSharia law dictates the personal status law, which regulate matters such as marriage, divorce and child custody. The Sharia-based personal status law is applied to Muslims and sometimes non-Muslims. Non-Muslim expatriates can be liable to Sharia rulings on marriage, divorce and child custody. Sharia courts have exclusive jurisdiction over family law cases and also have jurisdiction over some criminal cases including adultery, premarital sex, robbery and related crimes.\n\nApostasy is a crime punishable by death in the UAE. UAE incorporates hudud crimes of Sharia into its Penal Code – apostasy being one of them. Article 1 and Article 66 of UAE's Penal Code requires hudud crimes to be punished with the death penalty, therefore apostasy is punishable by death in the UAE.\n\nKissing in public is illegal and can result in deportation. Expats in Dubai have been deported for kissing in public. In Abu Dhabi, people have been sentenced to 80 lashes for kissing in public.\n\nHomosexuality is illegal: homosexuality is a capital offense in the UAE. In 2013, an Emirati man was on trial for being accused of a \"gay handshake\". Article 80 of the Abu Dhabi Penal Code makes sodomy punishable with imprisonment of up to 14 years, while article 177 of the Penal Code of Dubai imposes imprisonment of up to 10 years on consensual sodomy.\n\nAmputation is a legal punishment in the UAE due to the Sharia courts. Crucifixion is a legal punishment in the UAE. Article 1 of the Federal Penal Code states that \"provisions of the Islamic Law shall apply to the crimes of doctrinal punishment, punitive punishment and blood money.\" The Federal Penal Code repealed only those provisions within the penal codes of individual emirates which are contradictory to the Federal Penal Code. Hence, both are enforceable simultaneously.\n\nDuring the month of Ramadan, it is illegal to publicly eat, drink, or smoke between sunrise and sunset. Exceptions are made for pregnant women and children. The law applies to both Muslims and non-Muslims, and failure to comply may result in arrest. Dancing in public is illegal in the UAE.\n\n"}
{"id": "42189878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42189878", "title": "Jewish Future Alliance", "text": "Jewish Future Alliance\n\nThe Jewish Future Alliance is a New York–based volunteer group founded by Rabbi Yaacov Behrman dedicated to advocating on behalf of the Jewish community and other minorities.\nSince its launch, the JFA has emerged as an objective and respected voice of reason representing Jewish communities across the spectrum of belief in the United States and around the world.\n\nThe JFA serves as a liaison between elected leaders and the constituents they serve to discuss the betterment of the community.\n\nThe JFA helps educate United Nations personnel from countries with small Jewish populations about Jewish religion and many dimensions of Jewish culture. The program also offers tours of the New York Jewish community for dignitaries seeking to explore the religion and culture a Jewish community firsthand.\n\nThe JFA advises organizations on crisis-based public relations and media management. Members of our team of volunteers were involved in a number of international media crisis including handling media during the Mumbai terrorist attacks on November 26, 2008 and its aftermath, the kidnapping of a Rabbi in Ecuador and the expulsion of Rabbi from Russia. The JFA also helps organizations promote their community and holiday events to the press free of charge\n"}
{"id": "48826171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48826171", "title": "John Abel (minister)", "text": "John Abel (minister)\n\nJohn Abel (1770–1819) of Carmarthenshire was a Welsh Independent minister and schoolmaster. He was born in Llanybri. Abel attended Carmarthen College and was ordained in 1794 in Capel Sul, Kidwelly, where he remained for a quarter century. Capel Sul was built as a Presbyterian church in 1785, and then became Independent. Abel was the church's second minister. During the week, he was a schoolmaster, after which he preached at the church. His father, co-founder of Capel Newydd in Llanybri, was William Abel.\n"}
{"id": "52047544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52047544", "title": "József Dravecz", "text": "József Dravecz\n\nJózsef Dravecz, born Márk Drávecz, also known in Slovene as Jožef Marko Dravec (20 March 1697 – 17 July 1779) was a Slovene Roman Catholic priest, canon, dean, and writer in the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nDravecz was born in Beltinci in the area of the Bishopric of Zagreb. His native language was Prekmurje Slovene. He mostly lived in the Hungarian settlements of Vál and Pázmánd. He died in Veszprém.\n\nDravecz renovated the church in Vál. Wrote in Latin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14584372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14584372", "title": "Kevala Jnana", "text": "Kevala Jnana\n\nKevala jñāna means omniscience in Jainism and is roughly translated as absolute knowledge or supreme knowledge.\n\nKevala jnana is believed to be an intrinsic quality of all souls. This quality is masked by karmic particles that surround the soul. Every soul has the potential to obtain omniscience by shedding off these karmic particles. Jain scriptures speak of twelve stages through which the soul achieves this goal. A soul who has attained kevala jnana is called a \"kevalin\" (). According to the Jains, only kevalins can comprehend objects in all aspects and manifestations; others are only capable of partial knowledge.\n\nThe views of two sects of Jainism, Digambara and Śvētāmbara Jains differ on the subject of \"kevalins\". According to Digambaras, a kevalin does not experience hunger or thirst, whereas according to Svetambaras, a \"kevalin\" has normal human needs and he travels and preaches too. Digambara Jains believe that they do not act in the normal sense of the word, that they sit motionless in padmasana, and that their bodies emit \"Divyadhvani,\" a sacred sound which is interpreted by their followers as the fundamental truth. According to both traditions, the last \"kevalin\" was a disciple of one of the eleven chief disciples of the last \"tirthankara\", Mahāvīra; his name is recorded as Jambuswami. It is also believed that no one after Jambuswami will have the ability to obtain kevala jnana.\n\nThe claim of existence of omniscience by Jains, who deny the existence of a creator god, is a unique phenomenon. The Sutrakritanga text of the Svetambara school, elaborates the concept as all-knowing and provides details of his other qualities. Another text, the Kalpa Sūtra, gives details of Mahavira's omniscience\nImmediately after the death of Mahavira, his disciple Indrabhuti Gautama became a \"kevalin\". As per the tradition, the teachings of the tirthankara were memorized and preserved over many centuries.\n\nIn the second \"Upanga Agama\", the \"Rājapraśnīya\", there is a dialogue between Kesi, a disciple of Pārśva, and Payasi, a materialist king. In this dialogue, Kesi proves the existence of jiva and its ability to obtain kevala jñana to the king.\n\nThe Jains have a long debate with Hindus and Buddhists regarding omniscience. Bhikkhu Dharmakirti criticized the Jain notion of omniscience in his \"Pramanavartika\". The Hindu philosopher Kumarila argued that only Veda had the authority to define human moral values since they were \"beginningless, authorless and of self-sufficient validity\". In response, the Jain monk Haribhadra (c. 8th century CE) wrote that humans already had knowledge of everything knowable. It only had to be illuminated or uncovered. Omniscience was, according to Haribhadra, inherent to living beings.\n\nSamantabhadra was the first philosopher-monk in the history of Indian philosophy who tried to use inference as a method to establish the existence of omniscience In his famous work, \"Aptamimamsa\", Samantabhadra asserts:\n\nAkalanka (c. 720 760 CE) put forward the concept of \"suniscita-asambhavad-badhaka-pramana\" as a reason for the existence of omniscience. This concept is a well-known fact which is \"we have no valid methods of knowing to deny the existence of omniscience\". Hemacandra (c. 1088 1173) combined Samantabhadra and Akalanka's ideas of \"sarvajña\" in his \"Pramanamimasa\" to establish the existence of omniscience.\n\nIn Jain epistemology, there are two kinds of valid methods of knowledge: \"pratyakṣa\" or \"direct knowledge\" and \"parokṣa\" or \"indirect knowledge\". Kevala-jñana is considered \"pratyaksa\". Five ways of obtaining knowledge are defined: \"matijñana\" acquired through sensory perception; \"srutajñana\" acquired through understanding of verbal and written sentences; \"avadhijñana\", \"manhaparyaya jñana\" and kevala jñana.\n\nJains contrast all attempts to proclaim absolute truth with \"Anekantavada\", which can be explained through the parable of the \"blind men and an elephant\". In this story, each blind man felt a different part of an elephant (trunk, leg, ear, etc.). All the men claimed to understand and explain the true appearance of the elephant, but could only partly succeed, due to their limited perspectives. This principle is more formally stated by observing that objects are infinite in their qualities and modes of existence, so they cannot be completely grasped in all aspects and manifestations by finite human perception. According to the Jains, only the \"Kevalis\"—omniscient beings—can comprehend objects in all aspects and manifestations; others are only capable of partial knowledge. Consequently, no single, specific, human view can claim to represent absolute truth.\n\nAccording to Jain texts, there are fourteen stages (\"gunasthana\") of spiritual development. The soul can gradually frees itself, firstly from the worst, then from the less bad and finally from all kinds of karma, and manifests the innate qualities of knowledge, belief and conduct in a more and more perfect form. The first four \"gunasthana\" are related to belief or rationality in perception. As and when the soul acquires rationality in perception it moves on to 4th \"gunasthana\". Stages 5 to 14 relate to conduct. The purity in conduct determines the gunasthana from 5th stage onwards. Those who have taken the \"anuvratas\" {minor vows} may reach up to the 5th Gunasthana. The 6th to 14th Gunasthanas can only be attained by those who have taken the \"Mahavratas\" (major vows) of Jain ascetic. Following are the stages of spiritual development:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19848040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19848040", "title": "Kosuke Koyama", "text": "Kosuke Koyama\n\nKoyama was born in Tokyo in 1929, of Christian parents. He later moved to New Jersey in the United States, where he completed his B.D. at Drew Theological Seminary and his Ph.D. at Princeton Theological Seminary, the latter on the interpretation of the Psalms of Martin Luther in 1959.\n\nAfter teaching at a theological seminary in Thailand, he was the executive director of Association of Theological Schools in Southeast Asia with his office in Singapore from 1968 to 1974, and the editor of Southeast Asia Journal of Theology, and the Dean of Southeast Asia Graduate School of Theology. After that he worked as Senior Lecturer in Religious Studies at the University of Otago in Dunedin in New Zealand, from 1974 to 1979. He later worked at the Union Theological Seminary in New York City, where he stayed until his retirement in 1996 as John D. Rockefeller Jr. Professor Emeritus of World Christianity. To his close friends and family, he was known as \"Ko\". Along with Kazoh Kitamori, he is considered one of the leading Japanese theologians of the twentieth century.\n\nKoyama died at a hospital in Springfield, Massachusetts, of pneumonia complicated by oesophagal cancer, on March 25, 2009. His wife Lois died April 13, 2011. He is survived two sons, a daughter, and five grandchildren.\n\nIn works such as \"Water Buffalo Theology\" and \"Three Mile an Hour God\", he defended a theology that he considered to be accessible to the peasantry in developing nations, rather than an overly academic systematic theology. In total, Koyama wrote thirteen books. One of his most well-known books, \"Water Buffalo Theology\", was described as \"ecological theology, liberation theology and contribution to Christian-Buddhist dialogue\".\n\n\"Water Buffalo Theology\" is probably Koyama's best-known work. The book was partly inspired by Koyama's work as a missionary in Northern Thailand. His works of \"Mount Sinai and Mount Fuji\" and \"Water Buffalo Theology\" are, in part, an examination of Christian theology within the context of Thai Buddhist society, growing out of Koyama's missionary experience in Thailand. Koyama was an editor of the \"South East Asia Journal of Theology\", for which he himself wrote a considerable number of articles. Koyama published at least thirteen books, including \"On Christian Life\" (currently available only in Japanese) and over one hundred scholarly articles. Koyama's work has been described as helping to bridge the boundaries between East and West, between Christianity and Buddhist thought, between the rich and the poor. It has been pointed out that he has no overarching system in this theology, which shows commitment to serving a \"broken Christ trying to heal a broken world\". He was named as an important figure for the development of a world Christianity.\n\nIn \"No Handle on the Cross: An Asian Mediation on the Crucified Mind\" (1976), Koyama explained how the cross can be considered the symbol of Christian suffering, and began the book with a chapter entitled \"The Cross and the Lunchbox\". Koyama explained, in the preface to this book, which he wrote in Tokyo at Christmas 1975, how he did Christian missionary work in Thailand from 1960 to 1968, and how his experiences in Thailand rekindled interest in Asian religion in him. He also explained in the preface how the book grew out of the Earl Lectures which he delivered at the Pacific School of Religion in California. Koyama also spoke at a conference in Edinburgh in 1985, in which he described God as \"a hot God\", suggesting a certain dynamic quality to the attributes of God. In this book, he reflected on his interest in the relationship between history and theology, and pointed out the imperial nature of Indo-European languages among those speakers of languages such as Sinhalese or Japanese. He also told, in this book, of an incident which happened to him in Singapore, where he met a Buddhist monk from Sri Lanka. He told the monk about crusades for Jesus Christ and the monk looked puzzled. \"Why do you need to crusade?\" asked the monk. The monk indicated that if one felt a need to crusade, then one was not a true disciple. Instead, the monk championed, true to his Buddhist beliefs, the virtue of self-denial.\n\nHis last work was \"Theology and Violence: Towards A Theology of Nonviolent Love\", published in Japanese in 2009 by Kyobunkwan, a publishing firm in Tokyo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37819383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37819383", "title": "Kérdik", "text": "Kérdik\n\nIn a local tradition of the Mascarene Islands, Kérdik (French and creole: [kɛʀ'dik], from classical Sanskrit: हार्दिकः ['ha:rdikə], PIE ['ker] \"the heart\", with influence of creole's noun for \"heart\": [keʁ]) is a solar deity or a demon, which is able to incarnate into living beings such as animals or human beings. People who witness one of his incarnations are said to lose their minds and end up obeying to the deity.\n\nIn Mascarene Islands, witchcraft and testimonies about possessions are somehow common. In this context, the god Kérdik appears like a mix between cultures present in the Indian Ocean where Hinduism and Afro-European mythologies are very active together. Kérdik is said to be the son of the Hindu goddess Kali – already worshiped in Hindu communities of the islands, but who don't acknowledge the cult of Kérdik – and the Snake God Paradise who is the protector of the Divine Garden.\n\nSome people who \"encountered\" Kérdik said he looks like a tall skinny humanoid creature with greenish blue skin, \"sun-coloured\" hair and lizard grey eyes. He can take on avatars by which he may possess and control third parts. He is a god of love, war, action and humor. He is not described as a handsome god. However, he has sufficient charisma to make people happy with his presence and bow their will under his power. He teaches human beings to search for innocent pleasures, friendship and respect for nature. He is somehow an eco-god and is worshiped as a human incarnation of the Sun.\n\nAlthough Kérdik is a god of humor and happiness, he may convert into a terrifying creature with armour. He then crushes his own worshipers under his huge celestial form. Every morning, he makes another world with his head associated to the Sun and he guards the night with his eyes associated with the Moon and the stars. One of his main attributes is the heart, which may explain his name. Because of local mixity in religions, he is revered as the Sacred Heart in Christian contexts. His name is said to come from the secret Sun's name. Another symbol for him, is then the Dharmacakra. It is not clear whether there is or not any Buddhist reference.\n\nAmong other symbols we find animals such as birds, reptiles, fishes and goats. As Kérdik's birth take place after the solstice of December which marks the astrological month of Capricorn, fishes and goats are very common symbols. For the ones who \"encountered\" Kérdik, they try to celebrate the annual festival within the celebrations of Christmas and Epiphany.\n\nKérdik's cult is not official and yet not acknowledged by the majority of the population of the Mascarene Islands. Thus his legend may be part of the local folklore which is very creative, among witches and ghosts popular stories.\n\nFrom what the description we have, Kérdik appears like a local blend of mythologies such as Pan or Crius in the Greek mythology, Loki in the Norse myths and above all, the vedic Surya with whom many characteristics are common.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17616242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17616242", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Chile", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Chile\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Chile comprises five ecclesiastical provinces each headed by an archbishop. The provinces are in turn subdivided into 19 dioceses and 6 archdioceses each headed by a bishop or an archbishop. There is also one Territorial Prelature, one Apostolic Vicariate and one Military Ordinariate in Chile. The bishops of Chile form the Episcopal Conference of Chile.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12312919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12312919", "title": "List of Shinto shrines in Kyoto", "text": "List of Shinto shrines in Kyoto\n\nList of Shinto shrines in Kyoto includes many Shinto shrines; but this list encompasses only some of the 400 Shinto shrines with scattered locations throughout the municipality of Kyoto and the prefecture of Kyoto:\n\nThe Kamo Shrine predates the founding of Heian-kyō.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20811227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20811227", "title": "List of former Mormon fundamentalists", "text": "List of former Mormon fundamentalists\n\nThis is a list of former members of Mormon fundamentalism churches.\n\n\n\n\nThese former members belonged to different polygamist groups; FLDS, AUB, Church of the Firstborn of the Fulness of Times and other LDS polygamist groups.\n"}
{"id": "54527970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54527970", "title": "Miri piri", "text": "Miri piri\n\n\"Miri-Piri\" is a concept that has been practiced in Sikh religion since seventeenth century. The concept of “Miri-Piri” was started by sixth Guru of Sikhism Guru Hargobind in June 12, 1606. After the martyrdom of his father, Guru was conquered to the Guruship and fulfilled the prophecy that was given by primal figure of Sikh Baba Buddha that the guru will possess spiritual and temporal power. Guru Hargobind introduced the two swords of Miri and Piri symbolizing both worldly (political) and spiritual authority. The two kirpan of Miri and Piri are tied together with a khanda in center, where Piri is considered supreme then Miri because it symbolizes Spirituality..\n"}
{"id": "42809614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42809614", "title": "Nang (Sikhism)", "text": "Nang (Sikhism)\n\nNang, is a term used by Nihang Sikhs for a member guilty of religious misconduct. In that context, nang can mean either \"kangāl\" ( \"destitute\") or \"nanga\" (one without clothes). If a member of Nihang army is convicted via court-martial, his royal blue uniform is removed and his license of to keep arms is cancelled, leading to his excommunication from the Khalsa. Only Jathedars of Nihang Dals such as Budha Dal have authority to punish their army members after trial.\n"}
{"id": "392530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392530", "title": "Nauruan indigenous religion", "text": "Nauruan indigenous religion\n\nNauruan indigenous religion is a monotheistic system of belief that includes a female deity called Eijebong and an island of spirits called Buitani. Believers say that the sky and the earth were created by a spider called Areop-Enap. There are very few, if any, people on the island who still subscribe to this religion, because of the dominant belief of Christianity imposed upon them by Christian colonization.\n"}
{"id": "1315315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1315315", "title": "New Reformed Orthodox Order of the Golden Dawn", "text": "New Reformed Orthodox Order of the Golden Dawn\n\nThe New Reformed Orthodox Order of the Golden Dawn (abbreviated NROOGD, commonly pronounced \"nuh-roog'd\") is a Wiccan organization/tradition/denomination that, despite its name, has little or nothing to do with the original Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.\n\nThe NROOGD Tradition of the Craft originated in 1967 with a group of friends (including e.l.f. Silverlocke, Glen Turner, Judy Greenwood, and Aiden Kelly). e.l.f. Silverlocke was taking a class at San Francisco State College, which gave her the assignment of creating and leading a ritual. She came up with the idea of recreating a Witches' Sabbath, using published sources from Robert Graves, Margaret Murray and Gerald Gardner, a ritual was composed that has served as the basis of NROOGD practice ever since. After repeat performances of this rite yielded results on a number of occasions, a decision was made to create a group identity and train others in its performance.\n\nThe name New Reformed Orthodox Order of the Golden Dawn was coined since it was a wholly new Tradition, it was Orthodox since it took its beliefs from the ancients, and it was a Magical Order as was the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. They considered themselves in some sense the spiritual and magical successors of the Golden Dawn. Bonewits considers NROOGD to be the quintessential (and probably the first) \"California Eclectic\" Wiccan Tradition, near the \"liberal/heterodox\" end of his Wiccan spectrum of \"orthodoxy/heterodoxy.\"\n\nThe mother circle of NROOGD hived off daughter and granddaughter covens, which trace an unbroken line of initiation and share a common liturgy.\n\nCovens are autonomous and recognize one another's initiates. The Tradition worships a triply aspected Goddess and various forms of the God derived from ancient Greek and British mythology.\n\nCoven Esbats are usually held skyclad, (Some covens do choose to work robed.) and focus on the working of ethical magic and the celebration of the divinity of each participant.\n\nIn 1976, the governing body of the NROOGD called the Red Cord Council was dissolved, and a consensus decision to call the Order a Tradition was made. Since that time, those groups tracing their lines of initiation back to a member of the original group and who share certain forms of liturgy consider themselves part of the NROOGD tradition.\n\nThe core NROOGD ritual, is made of poetry and charms, and begins with a line dance in the form of a spiral inwards and then outwards, representing death and rebirth. Central to the public face of the Tradition is the celebration of the solar cycle, as observed through public Sabbats.\n\nNROOGD public ritual is often known for a particularly poetic style of conjuration, the invocation of the Lord and the Lady (in her triple aspect), and the use of the Spiral Dance. Some have called NROOGD a \"bardic\" Tradition, because of its strong emphasis on poetic expression and the power of words and song.\n\nInitially, the ritual performance required three priestesses and one priest, but now this form is usually reserved for large public rituals; the smaller coven meetings typically require only one of each. Although magical workings vary in form and content, they often include enchantments and simple verse. Mythic enactments corresponding to a needed transformation may also be performed.\n\nNROOGD continues to hold large public ritual celebrations at each of the eight Sabbats for the benefit of the greater Pagan community, and periodic meetings of area covens are held to decide responsibilities for the coming year.\n\nEsbats in NROOGD covens usually focus on the working of magic, or on celebration of the divinity of each participant, recognizing and greeting the force of a usually triply aspected Goddess and God. The magical workings vary in form and content, but often include charms and simple poetry. Poetic ritual writing is much encouraged by the tradition. Mythic enactments corresponding to a needed transformation may also be performed.\n\nSharing food and drink (called a Love Feast) usually wraps up the agenda, as all prepare themselves to reenter their daily reality. Gods, Demigods, or other spirits at each of the cardinal directions serve as Guardians of the Circle and of the Elements, and are usually different for each coven. Names of the Gods tend to be idiosyncratic to each group and some covens keep them secret nowadays.\n\nDuring the late 1980s and 1990s, younger members expanded inherited liturgy by writing new poetry and songs for new rituals. This continues in the Tradition today. NROOGD encourages creative expression, and these new writings serve to keep the Tradition alive.\n\nNROOGD covens in the San Francisco Bay Area cooperate to present public (clothed) ritual celebrations on most of the Sabbats, for the benefit of the greater Pagan community. Often in the fall, NROOGD enacts a ritual at the seaside inspired by and commemorating the Greater Eleusinian Mysteries of the Hellenic world.\n\nNROOGD member covens are primarily based in the San Francisco Bay Area, yet practitioners are found all over the State of California, The Southwest, the Pacific Northwest, the East Coast, Canada and the UK. There is neither central authority nor spokesperson for the tradition.\n\nNROOGD Laws of the Craft:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3408508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3408508", "title": "Nitnem", "text": "Nitnem\n\nNitnem (Punjabi: ਨਿਤਨੇਮ) (literally \"Daily Routine\") is a collection of Sikh hymns (\"Gurbani\") to be read minimally 3 different times of the day. These are mandatory and to be read by every Amritdhari Sikh as expressed in the Sikh Rehat Maryada. Optionally additional prayers may be added to a Sikh's \"nitnem\". There are five hymns \"(Five Banis)\" to be done during \"Amrit Vela\" (early morning), the \"Rehras Sahib\" hymn for the evening and \"Kirtan Sohila\" for the night, The morning and evening prayers should be followed by an \"Ardaas\".\n\nThese are known as the Five Banis. These prayers are recited at dawn. The Japji Sahib, Jaap Sahib and Amrit Savaiye may take about 10-20 minutes, 20-30 minutes and 10 minutes, respectively, to recite.\n\nThis prayer is recited at dusk and takes about 15-25 minutes to recite.\n\nThis prayer is recited at bedtime and takes about 5-8 minutes to recite.\n\nOptionally additional prayers may be added to a Sikh's \"nitnem\" as the individual seems fit. \nMost commonly added include Asa Di Var and Shabad Hazare\n\n"}
{"id": "25887876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887876", "title": "Psilocybe hoogshagenii", "text": "Psilocybe hoogshagenii\n\nPsilocybe hoogshagenii is species of psilocybin mushroom in the Strophariaceae family. The mushroom has a brownish conical or bell-shaped cap up to wide that has an extended papilla up to 4 mm long. The stem is slender (up to 3 mm thick) and long. The variety \"P. hoogshagenii\" var. \"convexa\" lacks the long papilla.\n\nThe species is found in Mexico, where it grows singly or in small groups in clayey soils in subtropical coffee plantations, and from Colombia and Brazil in South America. The mushroom contains the psychedelic compounds psilocybin and psilocin, and all parts will stain blue or bluish black when handled or injured. \"P. hoogshagenii\" is used for divinatory purposes by some indigenous groups in Mexico.\n\nThe species was first described scientifically by French mycologist Roger Heim in 1958. It was one of several species described and illustrated in the popular American weekly magazine \"Life\" (\"Seeking the Magic Mushroom\"), in which R. Gordon Wasson recounted the psychedelic visions that he experienced during the divinatory rituals of the Mixtec people, thereby introducing psilocybin mushrooms to Western popular culture; it was however, mislabeled as \"Psilocybe zaptecorum\". Similarly, \"Psilocybe\" specialist Gastón Guzmán suggests that \"P. zapotecorum\", as described by Rolf Singer in 1958, is misidentified as it agrees well with the type of \"P. hoogshagenii\". The species \"Psilocybe caerulipes\" var. \"gastonii\", described by Singer in 1958, is a synonym of \"P. hoogshagenii\".\n\nThe species is named in honor of American anthropologist Searle Hoogshagen, who helped Heim and Wasson in their search for entheogenic mushrooms in Mexico. The mushroom is known locally by several common names. In Spanish, it is called \"los niños\" or \"los Chamaquitos\" (\"the little boys\"), in Mazatec as \"pajaritos de monte\" (\"little birds of the woods\"), in Nahuatl as \"cihuatsinsintle\" or \"teotlaquilnanácatl\" (\"divine mushroom that describes or paints\"), and in Mixe as \"Atka:t\" (\"judge\") or \"na.shwi.ñ mush\" (\"mushrooms of the earth\").\n\nThe variety \"P. hoogshagenii\" var. \"convexa\" was described by Guzmán in 1983 to account for mushrooms without an acute papilla that were otherwise roughly the same as the type variety. \"Psilocybe semperviva\", described by Heim and Roger Cailleux in 1958, was later determined by Guzmán to be synonymous with \"P. hoogshagenii\" var. \"convexa\". The varietal epithet \"convexa\" refers to the convex shape of the cap.\n\nThe cap ranges in shape from conical to bell-shaped to convex, reaching diameters of , although a range of is most usual. It has a long, sharp papilla that is up to . The cap surface is smooth, somewhat sticky when wet, and often has ridges extending halfway to the center of the cap. Its color is reddish brown to orangish brown to yellowish, and it is hygrophanous, fading when dry to a straw or fulvous color. The brownish gills have an adnate to adnexed attachment to the stem; mature gills become purplish black because of the spores. The hollow stem measures long by 1–3 mm thick. It is roughly equal in width throughout its length or slightly thicker at the base, and sometimes twisted. A thin rudimentary cortina-like partial veil covers the gills of immature fruit bodies, but it is fragile and disappears soon after the cap expands. The flesh in the cap is whitish, but more yellow in the stem. Both the odor and taste of the mushroom are farinaceous (similar to freshly ground flour). As is characteristic of psilocybin mushrooms, all parts of the fruit body bruise blue when handled or injured. \"P. hoogshagenii\" var. \"convexa\" lacks an acute papilla, although it occasionally has a small, rounded papilla. Its cap ranges in width from , and it is convex to roughly bell-shaped. All other macroscopic and microscopic features are identical to the type variety.\n\nThe spore print is dark purplish brown. Spores are rhomboid or nearly so in face view, and more or less ellipsoid when viewed from the side. They are thick-walled, with dimensions of 6.5–4–5.6 μm, and feature a broad germ pore. The basidia (spore-bearing cells) are usually four-spored, hyaline (translucent), roughly cylindrical or with a central constriction, and measure 12–22 by 5.5–9 μm. Pleurocystidia (cystidia on the gill face) are relatively abundant; they are ventricose (swollen), club-shaped or irregularly shaped, measuring 16–36 by 8–12 μm. The cheilocystidia (cystidia on the gill edge) are also abundant. They are 19–35 by 4.4–6.6 μm, lageniform (flask-shaped), narrowing into a long neck with a width of 1–3 μm, and either acute or somewhat capitate (ending in a roughly globular tip). Clamp connections are present in the hyphae.\n\nFruit bodies of \"Psilocybe hoogshagenii\" grow solitarily or in small groups in humus or in muddy clay soils in subtropical coffee plantations. According to the natives of the San Agustin Loxicha region of Mexico, the fungus tends to fruit simultaneously in large flushes. In Mexico, fruiting occurs in June and July, whereas in Argentina, fruiting is in February. The mushroom has been reported from Mexico in the states of Puebla, Oaxaca, and Chiapas, where it grows at elevations of . In South America, the species is known from Brazil and Colombia. \"P. hoogshagenii\" var. \"convexa\" has been found in grasslands in Hidalgo, and Oacaxa, but is most common in Puebla. It fruits from June to August.\n\n\"Psilocybe hoogshagenii\" mushrooms are used for entheogenic, or spiritual, purposes by some Chinantec-speaking curanderos of the Ixtlán District in Oacaxa. The mushrooms are primarily used to diagnose and prognose illness, and, to a lesser extent, to divine the location of objects or animals that have been lost or stolen. Guzmán also indicates contemporary ceremonial usage by Mixe and Zapotec people. Paul Stamets, in his \"Psilocybe Mushrooms of the World\", rates the psychoactive potency of the mushroom as \"moderately active\", and reports psilocybin levels of 0.6% (milligrams per gram of dried mushroom), and psilocin of 0.1%. In comparison, Stamets indicates that the commonly cultivated species \"P. cubensis\" contains 0.63% and 0.60% (psilocybin and psilocin), while the widespread \"P. semilanceata\" has 0.98% and 0.02%. Chemical analysis of \"P. hoogshagenii\" specimens from Brazil yielded up to 0.3% psilocybin and 0.3% psilocin.\n\n"}
{"id": "19493359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19493359", "title": "Psilocybe liniformans var. americana", "text": "Psilocybe liniformans var. americana\n\nPsilocybe liniformans\" var. \"americana, is a psilocybin mushroom in the family Hymenogastraceae. It is in the section Semilanceatae of \"Psilocybe\" and has psilocybin as its main active compound.\n\n\n\"Psilocybe liniformans\" var. \"americana\" is found scattered to gregarious in rich pastures or grasslands, fruiting from summer to early winter. It has been collected in Washington, Oregon, and Michigan, and has also been reported from Chile where it fruits in the spring.\nThis mushroom is very close to the type variety; the main difference is the lack of a gelatinous layer on the edge of the lamellae and the terricolous habitat.\n\n"}
{"id": "21492878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21492878", "title": "Shakti", "text": "Shakti\n\nShakti (Devanagari: शक्ति, IAST: Śakti; lit. \"power, ability, strength, might, effort, energy, capability\") is the primordial cosmic energy and represents the dynamic forces that are thought to move through the entire universe in Hinduism and Shaktism.\n\nShakti is the concept or personification of divine feminine creative power, sometimes referred to as \"The Great Divine Mother\" in Hinduism. As a mother, she is known as \"Adi Shakti\" or \"Adi Parashakti\". On the earthly plane, Shakti most actively manifests herself through female embodiment and creativity/fertility, though it is also present in males in its potential, unmanifest form. Hindus believe that Shakti is both responsible for creation and the agent of all change. Shakti is cosmic existence as well as liberation, its most significant form being the Kundalini Shakti, a mysterious psychospiritual force.\n\nIn Shaktism, Shakti is worshipped as the Supreme Being. Shakti embodies the active feminine energy of Shiva and is synonymously identified with Tripura Sundari or Parvati.\n\nDavid Kinsley mentions the \"shakti\" of Lord Indra's as Sachi (Indrani), meaning power. Indrani is part of a group of seven or eight mother goddesses called the Matrikas (Brahmani, Vaishnavi, Maheshvari, Indrani, Kumari, Varahi and Chamundi or Narasimhi), who are considered shaktis of major Hindu gods (Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva, Indra, Skanda, Varaha/Yama and Narasimha respectively).\n\nOne of the oldest representations of the goddess in India is in a triangular form. The Baghor stone, found in a Paleolithic context in the Son River valley and dating to 9,000-8,000 years BCE, is considered an early example of a yantra. Kenoyer, part of the team that excavated the stone, considered that it was highly probable that the stone is associated with Shakti.\n\nShaktism regards Devi (lit., \"the Goddess\") as the Supreme Brahman itself with all other forms of divinity considered to be merely Her diverse manifestations. In the details of its philosophy and practice, Shaktism resembles Shaivism. However, \"Shaktas\" (\"Sanskrit: , \"), practitioners of Shaktism, focus most or all worship on Shakti, as the dynamic feminine aspect of the Supreme Divine. Shiva, the masculine aspect of divinity, is considered solely transcendent, and Shiva's worship is usually secondary.\nFrom \"Devi-Mahatmya\":\n\nBy you this universe is borne,\nBy you this world is created,\nOh Devi, by you it is protected.\n\nFrom \"Shaktisangama Tantra\":\n\nWoman is the creator of the universe,\nthe universe is her form;\nwoman is the foundation of the world,\nshe is the true form of the body.\n\nIn woman is the form of all things,\nof all that lives and moves in the world.\nThere is no jewel rarer than woman,\nno condition superior to that of a woman.\n\nAdi Parashakti, whose material manifestation is Tripura Sundari, is a Hindu concept of the Ultimate Shakti or Mahashakti, the ultimate power inherent in all Creation. This is especially prevalent in the Shakta denomination within Hinduism, which worships the Goddess Devi in all her manifestations. Her human or Shakti swaroop/form, Parvati, was married to Shiva, while her knowledge/gyan swaroop form, Saraswati, weds Lord Brahma and her wealth/Dhan swaroop form, Lakshmi, becomes the consort of Lord Vishnu.\n\nIn the Smarta Advaita sect of Hinduism, Shakti is considered to be one of five equal bona fide personal forms of God in the panchadeva system advocated by Adi Shankara.\n\nAccording to some schools, there are four Adi Shakti Pitha and 51 Shakti centers of worship located in South Asia (four Adi Shakti Pitha are also part of 51 Shakti pithas but they are four major parts of Devi Sati's body. So, they are adi shakti pithas). They can be found in India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh, Tibet and Pakistan. These are called Shakti Peethas. The list of locations varies. A commonly accepted list of Shakti Peethas and their temple complexes includes: \n\nOther pithas in Maharashtra are:\n\nThere are many ancient Shakti devotional songs and vibrational chants in the Hindu and Sikh traditions (found in Sarbloh Granth). The recitation of the Sanskrit mantras is commonly used to call upon the Divine Mother.\n\nKundalini-Shakti-Bhakti Mantra\n\nTranslation:\n\n\"Merge in the Maha Shakti. This is enough to take away your misfortune.\nThis will carve out of you a woman. Woman needs her own Shakti, not anybody else will do it... When a woman chants the Kundalini Bhakti mantra, God clears the way. This is not a religion, it is a reality. Woman is not born to suffer, and woman needs her own power.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41696033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41696033", "title": "Sharaf al-Muluk", "text": "Sharaf al-Muluk\n\nSharaf al-Muluk (Persian: شرف الملوک) was the ruler of the Bavand dynasty from 1328 to 1334. He was the son and successor of Shah-Kaykhusraw. Nothing is known about Sharaf; he died in 1334, and was succeeded by his brother Hasan II of Tabaristan.\n\n"}
{"id": "24909329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24909329", "title": "Shardza Tashi Gyaltsen", "text": "Shardza Tashi Gyaltsen\n\nShardza Tashi Gyaltsen () (1859 - 1933 or 1935) was a great Dzogchen master of the Bon tradition of Tibet who took not only Bon disciples, but gathered students from all traditions of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nAccording to tradition, Shardza Tashi Gyeltsen famously realized the rainbow body.\n\nChaoul (2006) opened the discourse of Bon traditions of Trul khor into Western scholarship in English with his thesis from Rice University, which makes reference to writings of Shardza Tashi Gyaltsen, particularly the \"Most Profound Heavenly Storehouse None Other than the Oral Transmission of Trul Khor Energy Control Practices\" ().\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2351121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2351121", "title": "Sky Kingdom", "text": "Sky Kingdom\n\nSky Kingdom () is the name of the religious commune and sect founded by Ariffin Mohammed in Malaysia. The commune, based in Besut, Terengganu, was demolished by the government of Malaysia in August 2005. As of 2006, Ariffin Mohamed was residing in exile in Narathiwat, Thailand, just over the border from Kelantan. Eighteen members of the Sky Kingdom commune remain at the mercy of the Malaysia's Higher Shariah Court, with 40 having received leniency upon renouncing the group.\n\nSky Kingdom attracted worldwide mass media attention in mid-2005, over concerns about efforts by the Malaysian government to suppress its followers as apostates from Islam. The controversy brought to light the issue of whether sharia law superseded the right to religious freedom under Article 11 of the Constitution of Malaysia. This attention was coupled with considerable bemusement over followers' central objects of veneration, which include a large cream-coloured teapot, prompting local and foreign media to dub the sect as the \"teapot cult\".\n\nThe , 33-building complex was located near the village of Kampung Batu 13, Hulu Besut, in the Besut district in northern Terengganu (some 400 km north of Kuala Lumpur and 20 km from Jerteh). Sky Kingdom had existed on the site since the mid-1980s, though the group itself dates back to the late 1970s. Before the commune was demolished, the group supported itself through rubber tapping, religious tourism, and confectionery production.\n\nThe Malaysian government has described the \"teapot cult\" of Sky Kingdom as one of 22 \"heretical\" Islamic \"sects\" or \"cults\" in Malaysia, which altogether have an estimated 22,800 adherents.\n\nMost estimates of the numbers of followers of Sky Kingdom put them at several thousand, though this number would heavily depend on the criteria used for inclusion. As few as 25 now live on the commune, down from about 120 prior to the demolitions. Followers are mostly Malays but also include Africans, Indians, and British believers. One adherent is from New Zealand. Besides Malaysia, members are also said to be located in Singapore and Bali.\n\nA Muslim by birth, Ariffin, also known as \"Ayah Pin\" (\"Ayah\" is a common honorific meaning \"father\"), claims to have direct contact with the heavens and is believed by his followers to be the reincarnation of Jesus, Buddha, Shiva, and Muhammad. Devotees of Sky Kingdom believe that one day, Ayah Pin will return as the Imam Mahdi. His followers consider him the king of the sky, and the supreme object of devotion for all religions.\n\nA major emphasis of the Sky Kingdom religion is ecumenical dialogue and inter-religious harmony. People of different religious backgrounds have joined. Ayah Pin has visited several Hindu temples and the group once hosted a visit by a Christian group, a rare move by Malaysian standards .\n\nAyah Pin accepts the existence of angels, as well as a class of Malaysian forest fairies, called Orang Bunian. The Sky Kingdom also emphasizes the importance of spiritual healing as well as dream interpretation.\n\nAyah Pin used to conduct \"sessions\" on Saturday nights and Sunday mornings. According to a witness, the sessions began with a special ritual whereby followers would usher Ayah Pin from the main building to a concrete boat in the compound in which he would lie. His followers would then start chanting for him until 4:00 am. After this ritual, a lengthy question-and-answer period would take place, with Ayah Pin seated on a dais facing an audience. Hymns would also be sung during the session.\n\nThe commune features some structures which are symbolic of the group's ideology. Some notable symbols include a two-story high cream coloured teapot with a similarly-sized blue vase, costing RM 45 million. The teapot is said to symbolise the purity of water and \"love pouring from heaven\". It is the earthly model of a celestial prototype. According to Ayah Pin, it was inspired by the dreams of one of his followers, and reflects a similar vessel in the sky which God uses to shower his blessings on mankind. Followers who visits the commune for the first time have to drink \"holy water\" from the vase which is \"perpetually\" filled by the teapot.\n\nAnother notable feature in the compound is an equally large yellow umbrella, which offers \"a place for people to take shelter beneath God.\" It is said that this can also be associated with the nine planets in Hinduism.\"\n\nOther symbols present include an ornamental fishing boat, identified with Noah's Ark, and a crescent moon icon symbolising people without a religion, including the Orang Asli (indigenous peoples of peninsular Malaysia) and the aforementioned Orang Bunian.\n\nAriffin the leader and founder of Sky Kingdom, was born in 1943 in Beris, Kampung Besar Bachok, Kelantan. In 1953, Ariffin became seriously ill and he claimed that an angel had visited him. Twenty years later, the angel returned and Ariffin began his spiritual career. In 1975 a spiritual group was formed in Bagan Lebai Tahir, Butterworth, Penang. Whether Ariffin was the founder is unclear; during this phase he may have been a follower of Hassan Tuhan (also known as Anak Rimau), another claimant to divinity.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, the Sky Kingdom commune was formed on its present site in Besut. Some reports state the Office of Islamic Affairs declared the group to be deviant at this time. In 1995, Sky Kingdom's signature building projects began, in accordance with divine revelation. Two years later, the local Religious Affairs Council (\"Jawatankuasa Fatwa Majlis Agama Islam dan Adat Melayu Terengganu\") issued a fatwa against the group. About this time, four adherents were arrested for the crime of renouncing Islam, but they were later freed since as ex-Muslims Malaysia's sharia court no longer has jurisdiction over them.\n\nIn 2001 Ariffin himself renounced Islam. The Sharia court accused him of contravening Section 25 of the \"Enakmen Pentadbiran Hal Ehwal Agama Islam 1986\" (Administration of Islamic Religious Affairs 1986), stating that his teachings and beliefs were \"false, deviant, corrupting and threatening to the public peace\" (\"membawa ancaman kepada ketenteraman orang awam serta merosakkan akidah\"). He pleaded guilty to a charge of \"belittling Islam\" (\"menghina Islam\"), and was jailed for 11 months and fined RM 2,900. The Religious Affairs Office hoped that Ariffin's arrest would prevent the movement's growth. However, the Sky Kingdom continued to attract new followers from university students and Orang Asli.\n\nOn 18 July 2005, a group of masked vigilantes attacked the group's headquarters, smashing windows and torching buildings. Two days later, 58 Sky Kingdom followers were arrested, and on 31 July three of Ariffin's four wives were arrested in Kelantan. Ariffin escaped capture and remains at large. Forty-five of his followers face the charge of failing to observe the government fatwa by continuing to be \"members of a sect declared deviant\", which carries a fine up to RM 3,000 or two years in prison. One of those arrested faced an additional charge of \"humiliating Islam\" for claiming no longer to be a Muslim. \n\nCourt cases will revolve around the right of religious freedom, which is theoretically guaranteed by the Malaysian constitution.\n\nOn 1 August 2005, officials of the Besut Land Office destroyed Sky Kingdom's buildings, citing Section 129 of the National Land Code, which punishes unauthorised construction with land confiscation. The titular landowner is Ariffin's first wife, who failed to appear in court for a hearing on the ownership. At a 1 September 2005, hearing, a trial date for the 45 followers accused of violating the government fatwa was set for three days beginning 18 December. All of the accused are represented by Wan Haidi Wan Jusoh of Ubaidullah Aziz and Company, who unsuccessfully petitioned the court to order his name blacked out by the media. The Sky Kingdom had previously had great difficulty obtaining legal representation, presumably because of attorneys' fears of reprisals or negative publicity.\n\nAs of 2007, after wide media coverage, the original Hulu Besut commune, now containing only 24 members, had reportedly chosen a new leader—a former police chief inspector in his 30s. The group is suspicious of visitors, and routinely turns out the commune's lights when a car approaches at night so as not to be found.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5077127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5077127", "title": "Tartaruchi", "text": "Tartaruchi\n\nTartaruchi (singular: \"tartaruchus\", meaning \"holder of Tartarus\") are the keepers of Tartarus (hell), according to the 4th century, non-canonical \"Apocalypse of Paul\". The author describes them as using one hand to choke damned souls, and the other using an \"iron of three hooks\". Temeluchus is the only tartaruchus named in the work. Tarturachus is mentioned in the Vision of Saint Paul in chapters 16 and 18 \"...Let him therefore be delivered unto the angel Tartaruchus that is set over the torments, and let him cast him into the outer darkness where is weeping and gnashing of teeth... [...] ...And I heard a voice saying: Let that soul be delivered into the hands of Tartaruchus, and he must be taken down into hell...\". The Tartaruchi are also mentioned in 2 Meqabyan (12:13) \"...And before he had finished saying this, the Angels of Death - whose name are called the Thilimyakos [Tartaruchi] - alit and struck him in the heart, dead...\"\n\nThe Italian and Portuguese word \"tartaruga\" (\"turtle\" or \"tortoise\") derives from this noun, as may English \"tortoise\" and \"turtle\".\n"}
{"id": "3462557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3462557", "title": "The Master Gunfighter", "text": "The Master Gunfighter\n\nThe Master Gunfighter is a film released in 1975 in Panavision, written and produced by Tom Laughlin, who also played the lead as Finley. \"The Master Gunfighter\" is mainly a remake of the 1969 Japanese film \"Goyokin\", although the story revolves around a true incident in the early 1800s involving massacred Indians that occurred in the vicinity of Goleta, California.\n\nIn 1836 in southern California near Santa Barbara shortly after California became part of the United States, American settlers and the U.S. government discriminated against the Mexican landowners and frequently took their land by force or legal skullduggery. Wealthy Latino ranchers whose land and wealth are at risk decide to misdirect a U.S. government ship carrying gold so that it will be wrecked and plundered. To prevent themselves from being caught, they plan to massacre the local Chumash Indians. The hero is the now-estranged adoptive son Finley (Tom Laughlin), a master swordsman and gunfighter, who tries to prevent this while still saving his family.\n\n\nThe director was Tom Laughlin, but officially the director credited was his son Frank (in 1975 he was 9).\n\nFilm critic Roger Ebert was harsh in his criticism of the film, writing, \"The movie opens with a long-winded narration, in a hapless attempt to orient us, but not long afterward the narrator has to break in again—we're lost already. It's all to little avail. I don't think there's any way an intelligent moviegoer could sit through this mess and accurately describe the plot afterward.\"\n\n\"Time Out\" magazine was also critical, writing, \"The film could have worked but for an excess of formula ingredients and muddled preachings. Adapted from a Japanese film, the transposition dubiously retains much samurai swordfighting and semi-Oriental costumes. Meanwhile, the over-mannered camerawork pays its dues to the Italian Western. In the resulting cultural hash, the plot with its strong anti-religious theme is too often disregarded.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1535739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1535739", "title": "Tilopa", "text": "Tilopa\n\nTilopa (Prakrit; Sanskrit: Talika or \"Tilopada\") (988–1069) was born in either Chativavo (Chittagong), Bengal or Jagora, Bengal in India. He was a tantric practitioner and mahasiddha. He practiced Anuttarayoga Tantra, a set of spiritual practices intended to accelerate the process of attaining Buddhahood. Naropa is considered his main student. At Pashupatinath temple premise, greatest Hindu shrine of Nepal, there are two caves where Tilopa attained Siddhi and initiated his disciple Naropa.\n\nTilopa was born into the priestly caste – according to some sources, a royal family – but he adopted the monastic life upon receiving orders from a dakini (female buddha whose activity is to inspire practitioners) who told him to adopt a mendicant and itinerant existence. From the beginning, she made it clear to Tilopa that his real parents were not the persons who had raised him, but instead were primordial wisdom and universal voidness. Advised by the dakini, Tilopa gradually took up a monk's life, taking the monastic vows and becoming an erudite scholar. The frequent visits of his dakini teacher continued to guide his spiritual path and close the gap to enlightenment.\n\nHe began to travel throughout India, receiving teachings from many gurus:\n\n\nAs advised by Matangi, Tilopa started to work at a brothel in Bengal for a prostitute called Dharima as her solicitor and bouncer. During the day, he was grinding sesame seeds for his living. During a meditation, he received a vision of Vajradhara and, according to legend, the entirety of mahamudra was directly transmitted to Tilopa. After having received the transmission, Tilopa embarked on a wandering existence and started to teach. He appointed Naropa, his most important student, as his successor.\n\nTilopa gave Naropa a teaching called the Six Words of Advice, the original Sanskrit or Bengali of which is not extant; the text has reached us in Tibetan translation. In Tibetan, the teaching is called \"gnad kyi gzer drug\" – literally, \"six nails of key points\" – the aptness of which title becomes clear if one considers the meaning of the English idiomatic expression, \"to hit the nail on the head.”\n\nAccording to Ken McLeod, the text contains exactly six words; the two English translations given in the following table are both attributed to him.\n\n<br>\nWatts-Wayman translation<br>\n\nAn earlier translation circa 1957 by Alan Watts and Dr. Alex Wayman rendered Tilopa's \"Six Precepts\" as<br>\n\nIn a footnote, Watts cited a Tibetan source text at partial variance with McLeod's in sequence and syntax, namely:<br>\n\nBased on an \"elucidation\" provided by Wayman, Watts explained that<br>\n\nWatts had studied Chinese, and Wayman was a Tibetologist and professor of Sanskrit associated with UCLA and later Columbia University.\n\nTilopa also gave mahamudra instruction to Naropa by means of the song known as \"The Ganges Mahamudra,\" one stanza of which reads:\n\nOne of the most famous and important statements attributed to Tilopa is: “The problem is not enjoyment; the problem is attachment.”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2169788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2169788", "title": "Upsherin", "text": "Upsherin\n\nUpsherin, Opsherin or Upsherinish (Yiddish: אפשערן, lit. \"shear off\", Judaeo-Arabic: חלאקה, \"ḥalāqah\") is a haircutting ceremony observed by a wide cross-section of Jews and is particularly popular in Haredi Jewish communities. It is typically held when a boy turns three years old. Among those who practice the upsherin, the male infant does not have his hair cut until this ceremony. \n\nThe upsherin tradition is a relatively modern custom in Judaism and has only become a popular practice since the 17th century.\n\nYoram Bilu, a professor of anthropology and psychology at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, suggests that there is little or no religious basis for the custom and its popularity is probably mainly social. The following are some quotes from his paper,\n\nTwo disparate hair-related practices appear to have converged in the haircutting ritual: the growing of ear-locks payoth - s.d.] and the shearing of the head hair. ... Ritual haircut, probably modeled on the Muslim custom of shaving male children's hair in saints' sanctuaries, was practiced by native Palestinian Jews (Musta'arbim) as early as the Middle Ages. Rabbi Isaac Luria Ashkenazi, the 16th-century founder of the celebrated Lurianic School of Kabbalah who assigned special mystical value to the ear-locks, was instrumental in constituting the ritual in its present form. The ritual remained primarily a Sephardi custom following Luria, but in the last 200 years it became widespread among East European Hasidim. From Palestine it spread to the Diaspora communities, where it was usually celebrated in a more modest family\nsetting.\n\nRabbi Chaim Vital wrote in Sha'ar Ha-Kavanot that \"Isaac Luria, cut his son's hair on Lag BaOmer, according to the well-known custom.\" However, the age of his son is not mentioned. An obvious problem raised by Avraham Yaari, in an article in Tarbiz 22 (1951), is that many sources cite that Luria held one should not cut one's hair for the entire sefirah – including Lag BaOmer, (see Shaarei Teshuva, O.C. 493, 8). \n\nWe know from travellers that by the 18th and 19th centuries, the \"hilula\" at Meron on Lag BaOmer with bonfires and the cutting of children's hair had by then become an affair of the masses. A well-known Talmud scholar from Bulgaria, Rabbi Abraham ben Israel Rosanes, wrote that, in his visit to Palestine in 1867, he saw an Ashkenazi Jew giving his son a haircut at the hilula. R. Rosanes says that he could not restrain himself, and went to the Jew and tried to dissuade him, yet was unsuccessful; he also complained that most of the Ashkenazi and Sephardi Jews of Israel were participating in this \"insanity,\" with \"drinking and dancing and fires.\"\n\nA Hasidic rebbe, R. Yehudah Leibush Horenstein, who emigrated to Palestine in the middle of the 19th century, writes that \"this haircut, called \"halaqe\", is done by the Sephardim in Jerusalem at the tomb of Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai during the summer, but during the winter they take the boy to the synagogue or Beit Midrash and perform the haircut with great celebration and parties, something unknown to the Jews in Europe.\"\n\nSome Haredi rabbis, among them Rabbi Yaakov Yisrael Kanievsky (the Steipler) and Rabbi Yitzchak Zev Soloveitchik opposed the practice on various grounds, but it is popular among Hasidic Jews and has spread in recent years to other Jewish groups.\n\nIn the Hasidic community, the \"upsherin\" marks a male child's entry into the formal educational system and the commencement of Torah study. A yarmulke and tzitzis will now be worn, and the child will be taught to pray and read the Hebrew alphabet. So that Torah should be \"sweet on the tongue,\" the Hebrew letters are covered with honey, and the children lick them as they read.\n\nSometimes the hair that is cut off in the \"upsherin\" ceremony is weighed, and charity is given in that amount. If the hair is long enough, it may be donated to a charity that makes wigs for cancer patients. Other customs include having each of those attending the ceremony snip off a lock of hair, and encouraging the child to put a penny in a tzedakah box for each lock, as it is cut. Sometimes the child sings a Hebrew song based on the Biblical verse: \"Torah tzivah lanu Moshe, morashah kehilat Yaakov\" [\"Moses commanded the Torah to us, an eternal heritage for the congregation of Jacob\" (Deut 33:4).\n\nAmong some Hasidic sects, such as Skver, Chernobyl, and Gur, the upsherin is held at age two. This custom is based on the tradition that Abraham celebrated his son Isaac's second birthday, hinted at in the Biblical verse: \"The child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast.\" (Genesis 21:8) Among some sephardic communities, particularly in Jerusalem, the practice (known to them as \"chalaka\") is performed at age five.\n\nCutting hair is not allowed during the time of the Counting of the Omer but is permitted on Lag BaOmer. This is why boys who turned three between Pesach and Lag BaOmer celebrate upsherin on this date. It is customary that at the Lag BaOmer celebrations by the tomb of Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai in Meron, Israel, boys are given their first haircuts while their parents distribute wine and sweets. Similar upsherin celebrations are simultaneously held in Jerusalem at the grave of Shimon Hatzaddik for Jerusalemites who cannot travel to Meron.\n\nIn 1983 Rabbi Levi Yitzchak Horowitz, the second Bostoner Rebbe, reinstated a century-old tradition among Bostoner Hasidim to light a bonfire and conduct upsherins near the grave of Rabbi Akiva in Tiberias on Lag BaOmer night. The tradition had been abandoned due to murderous attacks on sojourners to that relatively isolated place.\n\nIn the Bible, human life is sometimes compared to the growth of trees. According to Leviticus 19:23, one is not permitted to eat the fruit that grows on a tree for the first three years. Some Jews apply this principle to cutting a child's hair. Thus little boys are not given their first haircut until the age of three. To continue the analogy, it is hoped that the child, like a tree that grows tall and eventually produces fruit, will grow in knowledge and good deeds, and someday have a family of his own. Hasidic Rabbis have made this comparison, and in some communities a boy before his first haircut is referred to as \"orlah\", as we refer to a tree in its early years.\n\nChabad Hasidim have another explanation.\nFor the first three years of life, a child absorbs the surrounding sights and sounds and the parents’ loving care. The child is a receiver, not yet ready to give. At the age of three, children’s education takes a leap—they are now ready to produce and share their unique gifts.\"\n\n\n"}
