{"id": "24292743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24292743", "title": "1973–75 recession", "text": "1973–75 recession\n\nThe 1973–75 recession or 1970s recession was a period of economic stagnation in much of the Western world during the 1970s, putting an end to the overall Post–World War II economic expansion. It differed from many previous recessions by being a stagflation, where high unemployment and high inflation existed simultaneously.\n\nAmong the causes were the 1973 oil crisis and the fall of the Bretton Woods system after the Nixon Shock. The emergence of newly industrialized countries increased competition in the metal industry, triggering a steel crisis, where industrial core areas in North America and Europe were forced to re-structure. The 1973–74 stock market crash made the recession evident.\n\nThe recession in the United States lasted from November 1973 (the Richard Nixon presidency) to March 1975 (the Gerald Ford presidency), and its effects on the US were felt through the Jimmy Carter presidency until the mid-term of Ronald Reagan's first term as president, characterized by low economic growth. Although the economy was expanding from 1975 to the first recession of the early 1980s, which began in January 1980, inflation remained extremely high until the early 1980s.\n\nThe U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that 2.3 million jobs were lost during the recession; at the time, this was a post-war record. \n\nAlthough the recession ended in March 1975, the unemployment rate did not peak for several months. In May 1975, the rate reached its height for the cycle of 9 percent. (Three cycles have had higher peaks than this: the late 2000s recession, where the unemployment rate peaked at 10 percent in October 2009 in the United States, the early 1980s recession where unemployment peaked at 10.8% in November and December 1982, and the Great Depression, where unemployment peaked at 25% in 1933.)\n\nThe recession also lasted from 1973–75 in the United Kingdom. The GDP declined by 3.9% or 3.37% depending on the source. It took 14 quarters for the UK's GDP to recover to that at the start of recession.\n\nThe oil crisis was largely to blame for the downturn in the United Kingdom, just as it was for the similar crisis in the States, although the real crisis came in the form of the Three-Day Week, which was the result of fears over power shortages as a miner's strike was announced in December 1973. The three-day week was a state of emergency imposed by Conservative prime minister Edward Heath, which came into force on 1 January 1974, meaning that commercial users of electricity were limited to three specific consecutive days' consumption of electricity, and forbidden to work longer hours of those days, although services deemed essential were exempted from these regulations. Electricity blackouts across the country were widespread.\n\nThere was also double-digit inflation during this period, which peaked at more than 20%. The trade deficit was massive and national debt was rising sharply.\n\nEdward Heath's offer of a 13% pay rise was rejected by the miners, and he then responded by calling a snap election on 28 February 1974 in what he saw as an opportunity for the electorate to show the miners that the government – and not the miners or the unions – were responsible for running the country. Most opinion polls suggested that the Tories would be re-elected with a majority, but when the election results came through on the morning of 1 March 1974, no party had an overall majority. The gap between Ted Heath's Tory government and the Labour opposition led by Harold Wilson (who had been prime minister for nearly six years until his surprise defeat by Heath's Tories in the 1970 election) was so narrow that the Tories received the most votes but Labour won slightly more seats.\n\nHeath fought to keep the Tories in government by attempting to form a coalition with the Liberal Party and offering a cabinet post to Liberal leader Jeremy Thorpe, but this attempt to remain in power proved unsuccessful for Heath and he was forced to resign as prime minister on 4 March, paving the way for Harold Wilson's Labour to return to power as a minority government before winning a second election on 10 October by a majority of just three seats.\n\nEconomic growth was re-established in 1975 as the recession's end was declared, but Britain's economy remained shaky. Inflation remained high, strikes continued to cripple manufacturing and public services, unemployment continued to rise above the 1,000,000 mark, and just after the resignation of Harold Wilson as prime minister in March 1976, his successor James Callaghan was forced to call on the International Monetary Fund for a multibillion-pound bail-out in an attempt to bolster Britain's flagging economy.\n\nThe Labour government's tiny majority was wiped out by early 1977 as a result of by-election defeats, and Callaghan managed to form a coalition with the Liberals to hang onto power. The pact concluded in the summer of 1978, by which time economic growth had picked up (although unemployment now stood at a postwar high of 1,500,000), and opinion polls suggested that Labour could form a majority government if a general election was held. However, Callaghan ruled out an election in September 1978, and within weeks a series of strikes began which would spark the Winter of Discontent in which Britain came to a virtual standstill with numerous strikes in the public sector. In March 1979, a vote of no confidence issued by Tory opposition leader Margaret Thatcher sparked the collapse of the Labour government and in the election in May that year, the Tories returned to power.\n\nThe two major factors of the 1973–75 recession – inflation and strikes – were neutralised during the first term of the Thatcher-led Tory government, with inflation falling to a 15-year low and strikes to a 30-year low by the time of their election win of 1983, but the monetarist policies designed to curb inflation saw unemployment rise from 1,500,000 to 3,200,000 during that time and it was not until the turn of the 21st century, by which time Labour had been re-elected as New Labour under Tony Blair that unemployment fell below the level that it had risen to as a result of Thatcher's economic policies.\n\nIn the United States, the economic recovery from the 1973 to 1975 recession had many of the characteristics of a typical U-type recovery. GNP (the measure at the time) reached and exceeded its pre-recession level by first quarter 1976. Industrial production had recovered to its pre-recession levels by the end of 1976.\n\nThe major influence of the experience of the 1974 recession came in the form of the concept of stagflation, that is, inflation during a period of recession. The Federal Reserve adjusted its mandate as a result, believing that the inflation-unemployment tradeoff was much higher than previously thought, and established a 6% target as full employment. Thus, unemployment, which had reached a peak of 9% in May 1975, did not dip below 6% until June 1978. The pre-1974 recession level of 4.6% unemployment was not reached again until November 1997, when the Federal Reserve deviated from its prior policy.\n\nThe interpretation regarding the cause of stagflation was and continues to be controversial. The oil embargo of 1973-74, which pushed prices of petroleum from $15 to $45 a barrel (2010 dollars) almost overnight, certainly contributed to inflationary measures during this period, taking a larger share of incomes (an \"oil tax\") at a time of falling consumer spending. The price of petroleum products continued to rise throughout the decade, reaching a peak of about $73 a barrel (2010 dollars) in 1979 as a result of the Iranian revolution, a price not exceeded until 2008 in the wake of dislocations due to the war in Iraq.\n\n"}
{"id": "46379367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46379367", "title": "1984 Kokkilai massacres (army)", "text": "1984 Kokkilai massacres (army)\n\n1984 Kokkilai massacres refers to a series of massacres of Sri Lankan Tamil civilians when the Sri Lankan military attacked the village of Kokkilai and several neighboring villages in Mullaitivu District, Northern Province, Sri Lanka. The attack left several civilians including women and children dead and their property destroyed. The attacks resulted in widespread displacement of native residents and subsequently their lands were colonized by Sinhala settlers.\n\nOn 15 December 1984, a large number of Sri Lankan military troops entered the coastal villages of Kokkilai, Kokkuthoduvai, Alampil, Nayaru and Kumulamunai in Mullaitivu District. The Sri Lankan Army arrived and announced that several\nvillages were to vacate within 24 hours. Entire villages in the region such as Kokkilai, Kokkuthuduvai, Karnaddu kerni and Koddai Keri amongst others were ordered to vacate within a day’s time. The military then began killing people and destroying property. 131 civilians were killed including 31 women and 21 children. More than 2,000 families were forced to relocate following the attacks and subsequent colonisation attempts of their lands by the Sinhala population. They remain displaced to this date.\n\nThe Kokkilai massacres has come to be viewed as a part of the greater Sri Lankan state sponsored colonization of Sinhalese in Tamil areas.\n\nThe Mullaitivu District had historically been a Tamil area, and the population was almost entirely Tamil in the district. The villages situated at the southernmost part of the district, serving as the vital link between the North and the East became favorite targets for colonies of the Government. The fishing villages in the district including Kokkilai were colonized by Sinhala fishermen from Negombo and Chilaw.\n\nIn December 1984, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam reprised these colonization attempts by attacking these newly established colonies in North-East which were heavily protected by Sri Lankan military and Sri Lankan Home Guards who had earlier ethnically cleansed the native Tamil population from these villages.\n\nFollowing the recapture of the North and East by Government forces, the land border between Mullaitivu District and Trincomalee District were once again colonized with Sinhalese settlers in what were traditionally Tamil lands. Sinhalese were settled in traditionally Tamil land, given land, money to build homes and security provided by the Special Task Force. As a result, the demographics of the region had been significantly altered and a new division called the Weli Oya Divisional Secretariat (a Sinhalese corruption of the Tamil term \"\"Manal Aru\") was carved in the southern parts of the Mullaitivu district. Today the majority of the population in the area is Sinhalese while Tamils have been systematically denied any claim to their lands.\n\n"}
{"id": "7318130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7318130", "title": "1985 South Asian Games", "text": "1985 South Asian Games\n\nThe 1985 South Asian Games (or 2nd SAF Games) were held in Dhaka, Bangladesh from 20 December to 26 December 1985.\n\nA total of 7 countries participated in the 1985 South Asian Games.\n\nThere were 7 official sports for the 2nd SAF Games. They were:\n\nKabaddi and Wrestling were included for the first time during the 1987 games.\n"}
{"id": "55709011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55709011", "title": "2017 Taiwan blackout", "text": "2017 Taiwan blackout\n\nOn 15 August 2017 at 4:52 p.m., massive blackout hit northern half of Taiwan, affecting 6.68 million households. Electricity rationing was implemented at 6:00 p.m. and the blackout fully ended at 9:40 p.m.\n\nDuring the power supply equipment replacement for a control system of the metering station at Tatan Power Plant in Guanyin District, Taoyuan City by a contractor of CPC Corporation, the worker did not switch the system from auto mode to manual mode before starting the work, causing the two gas supply pipe valves to close and stop the supply of liquefied natural gas fuel source for two minutes. Six generators of the power plant fully tripped due to that, disrupting the supply of 4 GW of electricity.\n\nResidents in major cities in northern Taiwan reported slow-moving traffic, stalled lifts or gondola, no air conditioning etc. Some emergency services were called to rescue trapped people and the police were manually directing traffic.And before 2017 Summer Universiade.\n\nTaipower responded by offering one day electricity charge cut from each household bill, which resulted in NT$270 million of revenue loss to the company.\n\nPresident Tsai Ing-wen apologized to the people of Taiwan through her Facebook page, stating that electricity supply is a national security issue.\n\nEconomic Affairs Minister Lee Chih-kung resigned shortly afterwards to take responsibility. Premier Lin Chuan appointed Deputy Minister Shen Jong-chin as acting Minister to replace Lee.\n\nCPC Corporation Chairperson Chen Chin-te resigned three days afterwards to take responsibility of the event which was then replaced by acting Chairperson Yang Wei-fuu. His resignation also was accepted by Premier Lin.\n\nThe blackout caused at least US$3 million of loss or damages to over 150 companies in industrial parks and export processing zones.\n\nPresident Tsai promised that her administration would conduct a comprehensive review of the electrical grid of Taiwan to reexamine and strengthen it.\n\n"}
{"id": "113123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113123", "title": "554 BC", "text": "554 BC\n\nThe year 554 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 200 \"Ab urbe condita\". The denomination 554 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years. \n\n"}
{"id": "503304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=503304", "title": "653 BC", "text": "653 BC\n\nThe year 653 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 101 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 653 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54064915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54064915", "title": "67 Days of Smiles", "text": "67 Days of Smiles\n\n\"67 Days of Smiles\" was launched in June 2009 by the Orlando/Orange County Convention & Visitors Bureau (Orlando CVB).The theme of the contest, \"Orlando Makes Me Smile,\" was part of a campaign to promote tourism in Orlando. The contest winners were to be selected as a pair of friends, family, or co-workers and the applicant pairs were required to submit a video and a 500 word essay about \"why their smiles should be chosen.\" The winning pair were named \"Smile Ambassadors,\" and received a $25,000 stipend, a condominium, and a rental car to tour Orlando and local attractions for 67 days (this was considered to be the amount of time required to visit 100 local sights). To document the experience, they were given cell phones, and cameras. The contest drew over 300 pairs of applicants from 12 countries.\nThe winners of \"67 Days of Smiles,\" Stacey Jo Doornbos and Kyle Post, were announced in early August 2009. Stacey and Kyle were a pair of best friends originally from Holland, Michigan, residing in New York City. From late August 2009 to early November 2009, they fulfilled their duties by visiting Orlando attractions that included hand gliding, swimming with dolphins, gator wrestling, theme parks, and museums. They shared these experiences on social media via pictures, video, and a blog.\n\nThe \"67 Days of Smiles\" contest resulted in a significant boost in the city of Orlando's social media presence, and was considered a successful tourism campaign, enabling the public to \"witness Orlando in a way that the average visitor would be unable to do.\" In April 2010, the Orlando CVB conducted a \"World Smile Search\" for 67 people to win a trip to Orlando for World Smile Day. 67 Days of Smiles winners Stacey Jo Doornbos and Kyle West were contracted the Orlando CVB as official spokespeople, and they traveled throughout the U.S., Canada, and Europe to promote the event.\n\nhttps://67daysofsmiles.wordpress.com/\n"}
{"id": "51504187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51504187", "title": "76th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "76th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 76th World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), also known as Worldcon 76 in San Jose, was held in San Jose, California from August 16 to 20, 2018. The guests of honor included authors Chelsea Quinn Yarbro and Spider Robinson; artist John Picacio; musician Frank Hayes; and fans Pierre and Sandy Pettinger.\n\nThe awards were announced at the convention.\n"}
{"id": "58512349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58512349", "title": "A Dangerous Affair", "text": "A Dangerous Affair\n\nA Dangerous Affair is a 1995 American made-for-television thriller film starring Connie Sellecca and Gregory Harrison and directed by Alan Metzger. It originally premiered on CBS on January 1, 1995.\n\nSharon Blake is a successful career woman who meets real-estate agent Robert Kenzer while attending a party and they soon begin a passionate affair. But when she ends the affair, Sharon finds herself being stalked and harassed by her obsessed ex-lover who becomes violent and delusional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "751493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=751493", "title": "Adelphi Theatre", "text": "Adelphi Theatre\n\nThe Adelphi Theatre is a London West End theatre, located on the Strand in the City of Westminster. The present building is the fourth on the site. The theatre has specialised in comedy and musical theatre, and today it is a receiving house for a variety of productions, including many musicals. The theatre was Grade II listed for historical preservation on 1 December 1987.\n\nIt was founded in 1806 as the Sans Pareil (\"Without Compare\"), by merchant John Scott, and his daughter Jane (1770–1839). Jane was a British theatre manager, performer, and playwright. Together, they gathered a theatrical company and by 1809 the theatre was licensed for musical entertainments, pantomime, and burletta. She wrote more than fifty stage pieces in an array of genres: melodramas, pantomimes, farces, comic operettas, historical dramas, and adaptations, as well as translations. Jane Scott retired to Surrey in 1819, marrying John Davies Middleton (1790–1867).\n\nOn 18 October 1819, the theatre reopened under its present name, which was adopted from the Adelphi Buildings opposite.\nIn its early years, the theatre was known for melodrama, called \"Adelphi Screamers\". Many stories by Charles Dickens were also adapted for the stage here, including John Baldwin Buckstone's \"The Christening\", a comic burletta, which opened on 13 October 1834, based on the story \"The Bloomsbury Christening\". This is notable for being thought the first Dickens adaption performed. This was the first of many of Dickens's early works adapted for the stage of the Adelphi, including \"The Pickwick Papers\" as William Leman Rede's \"The Peregrinations of Pickwick\"; or, \"Boz-i- a-na\", a three-act burletta first performed on 3 April 1837, Frederick Henry Yates's production of \"Nicholas Nickleby\"; or, \"Doings at Do-The-Boys Hall\" in November and December 1838, and Edward Stirling's two-act burletta \"The Old Curiosity Shop\"; or, \"One Hour from Humphrey's Clock\" (November and December 1840, January 1841). The theatre itself, makes a cameo appearance in \"The Pickwick Papers\"\n\nThe Adelphi came under the management of Madame Celeste and comedian Benjamin Webster, in 1844, and Buckstone was appointed its resident dramatist. Dramatisations of Dickens continued to be performed, including \"A Christmas Carol\"; or, \"Past, Present, and Future\" opening on 5 February; and Beckett's \"The Chimes: A Goblin Story of Some Bells that rang an Old Year out and a New One In\". In 1848, \"The Haunted Man and the Ghost’s Bargain\" was performed.\nThe old theatre was demolished, and on 26 December 1858, \"The New Adelphi\" was opened and was considered an improvement on the cramped circumstances of the original, which had been described as a \"hasty conversion from a tavern hall, permanently kept in its provisional state\". The new theatre could seat 1,500 people, with standing room for another 500. The interior was lighted by a \"Stroud's Patent Sun Lamp\", a brilliant array of gas mantles passed through a chandelier of cut-glass.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, John Lawrence Toole established his comedic reputation at the Adelphi. Also in the mid-19th century, the Adelphi hosted a number of French operettas, including \"La belle Hélène\". In 1867, however, the Adelphi gave English comic opera a boost by hosting the first public performance of Arthur Sullivan's first opera, \"Cox and Box\".\n\nThe building was renovated in 1879 and again in 1887 when the house next door, along with The Hampshire Hog in The Strand and the Nell Gwynne Tavern in Bull Inn Court, were bought by the Gattis in order to enlarge the theatre. They also built a new enlarged facade and part of this can still be seen today above the Crystal Rooms next door to the present Adelphi Theatre.\n\nAn actor who performed regularly at the Adelphi in the latter half of the 19th century, William Terriss, was stabbed to death during the run of ‘Secret Service’ on 16 December 1897 whilst entering the Theatre by the royal entrance in Maiden Lane which he used as a private entrance. This is now recorded on a plaque on the wall by the stage door. Outside a neighbouring pub, a sign says that the killer was one of the theatre's stage hands, but Richard Archer Prince committed the murder. It has been said that Terriss' ghost haunts the theatre. Terriss' daughter was Ellaline Terriss, a famous actress, and her husband, actor-manager Seymour Hicks managed the Adelphi for some years at the end of the 19th century. The stage door of the current Adelphi is in Maiden Lane but back then it was in Bull Inn Court. William Terriss would later have a Theatre named after him, the Terriss Theatre in Rotherhithe, later known as the Rotherhithe Hippodrome.\n\nThe adjacent, numbers 409 and 410 Strand, were built in 1886–87 by the Gatti Brothers as the Adelphi Restaurant. The frontage remains essentially the same, but with plate glass windows, and, like the theatre, is a Grade II listed building.\n\nOn 11 September 1901, the third theatre was opened as the \"Century Theatre\", although the name reverted in 1904. This theatre was built by \"Frank Kirk\" to the design of Ernest Runtz. George Edwardes, the dean of London musical theatre, took over management of the theatre in 1908. In the early part of the 20th century, the Adelphi was home to a number of musical comedies, the most successful of which included \"The Earl and the Girl\" (1904), \"The Dairymaids\" (1907), \"The Quaker Girl\" (1910), \"The Boy\" (1917), \"Clowns in Clover\" (1927), and \"Mr. Cinders\" (1929).\n\nThe present Adelphi opened on 3 December 1930, redesigned in the Art Deco style by Ernest Schaufelberg. It was named the 'Royal Adelphi Theatre' and re-opened with the hit musical \"Ever Green\", by Lorenz Hart and Richard Rodgers, based on the book Benn W. Levy. Noël Coward's \"Words and Music\" premièred at the theatre in 1932. The operetta \"Balalaika\" (a revised version of \"The Gay Hussars\") played at the theatre in 1936, and in 1940 the theatre's name again reverted to 'The Adelphi'. The theatre continued to host comedy and musicals, including \"Bless The Bride\" (1947), \"Maggie May\" (1964), and \"A Little Night Music\" (1975), as well as dramas (see below for a list beginning in 1979).\n\nA proposed redevelopment of Covent Garden by the GLC in 1968 saw the theatre under threat, together with the nearby Vaudeville, Garrick, Lyceum and Duchess theatres. An active campaign by Equity, the Musicians' Union, and theatre owners under the auspices of the \"Save London Theatres Campaign\" led to the abandonment of the scheme.\n\nOn 27 February 1982 the Adelphi hosted the final night of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company for a concert performance of songs from all thirteen Savoy Operas as well as \"Cox and Box\" and \"Thespis\". In 1993, Andrew Lloyd Webber's Really Useful Group purchased the theatre and completely refurbished it prior to the opening of his adaptation of \"Sunset Boulevard\". The 1998 video of Lloyd Webber's musical \"Cats\" was filmed at the theatre.\n\nIn November 1997, the London production of the popular American musical \"Chicago\" premiered at the Adelphi, becoming the venue's longest-ever production during its eight-and-a-half-year run (which also made it the longest running American musical in West End history). In April 2006, \"Chicago\" transferred to the Cambridge Theatre (and later to the Garrick Theatre, where it closed in 2012.).\n\nMichael Grandage's revival of Andrew Lloyd Webber's \"Evita\" replaced the show, beginning previews on 2 June 2006 before completing a twelve-month run on 26 May 2007. Brian Wilson performed his album \"Pet Sounds\" for the last time in the UK at the Adelphi in November 2006. From 6 July 2007, the Adelphi was home to another Lloyd Webber revival, \"Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat\". The actor playing Joseph, Lee Mead, was cast by winning the BBC television show \"Any Dream Will Do\", and starred alongside Preeya Kalidas and Dean Collinson.\n9 March 2010 saw the premiere of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical, \"Love Never Dies\", which closed on Saturday 27 August 2011. The National Theatre transferred their show \"One Man, Two Guvnors\" to the theatre from 8 November 2011. This production moved out of the theatre on 25 February 2012, transferring to the Theatre Royal Haymarket, London.\n\n\"Sweeney Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street\" began a limited season at the Adelphi from 10 March to 22 September 2012, transferring from the Chichester Festival Theatre, starring Michael Ball and Imelda Staunton.\n\nThe theatre is currently owned and managed by the Adelphi Theatre Company Limited, a partnership between Andrew Lloyd Webber's LW Theatres and Nederlander International.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30047282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30047282", "title": "Alice de Lacy, 4th Countess of Lincoln", "text": "Alice de Lacy, 4th Countess of Lincoln\n\nAlice de Lacy, \"suo jure\" 4th Countess of Lincoln, \"suo jure\" 5th Countess of Salisbury (25 December 1281 – 2 October 1348) was an English peeress.\n\nBorn on Christmas Day 1281 at Denbigh Castle, Alice was the only daughter and heir of Henry de Lacy, 3rd Earl of Lincoln and Margaret Longespée, 4th Countess of Salisbury \"suo jure\" (in her own right). Her mother Margaret was the great-granddaughter and ultimate heir of one of the illegitimate sons of Henry II of England, William Longespée (Longsword), whose nickname became his surname.\n\nIn her long and eventful life Alice was married three times, the first time at the age of 12; widowed three times; abducted; imprisoned; raped; and her inheritance extorted from her. Yet throughout her life she remained generous and respected by her subordinates and those who were dependent upon her.\n\nTragic accidents resulted in the deaths of Alice's two brothers in childhood. Edmund drowned in a well at Denbigh Castle and John fell to his death from a parapet at Pontefract Castle. As the sole surviving child this made Alice the heiress to two Earldoms, one from her father, and one from her mother. As a great prize on the marriage market, King Edward I of England arranged for her betrothal \"in her 9th year\" to his nephew Thomas of Lancaster, the heir to the Earldoms of Lancaster, Leicester and Derby. They married on 28 October 1294 when Alice was 13 years old, and Thomas about 16. By the terms of their marriage settlement the bulk of her great inheritance from her father, which included the Earldom of Lincoln and many other estates, was to go to Thomas, with reversion to Thomas's heirs. In other words, during his lifetime Thomas had control of Alice's inheritance from her father. If Alice outlived Thomas, and had control of her father's inheritance returned to her on his death, then on her own death her father's inheritance would pass to Thomas's heirs. Her father also came to an agreement with the King that should Alice have no children, her father's Earldom of Lincoln would pass into the royal family on her death.\n\nThe marriage was not successful, they had no children, and they lived quite separate lives. Alice mostly lived alone in her castle of Pickering, Yorkshire, while Thomas took a host of mistresses, and fathered at least two illegitimate children.\n\nOn the death of her mother in 1309 or 1310, Alice inherited her mother's titles and estates. Alice became 3rd Countess of Salisbury \"suo jure\" (in her own right), and her husband Thomas became Earl of Salisbury \"jure uxoris\" (by right of his wife).\n\nOn the death of her father in February 1311, Alice became the 4th Countess of Lincoln \"suo jure\" (in her own right), and her husband Thomas became Earl of Lincoln \"jure uxoris\" (by right of his wife). Thomas of Lancaster inherited all her father Henry's lands by right of his wife, and he paid homage to Edward II of England for them shortly after Henry's death. With the three Earldoms that he had inherited from his father in 1296, and the control of the two Earldoms of his wife, this made Thomas of Lancaster the richest and most powerful man in England.\n\nIn the spring of 1317 Alice was abducted from her manor of Canford, Dorset, by some of the household Knights of John de Warenne, Earl of Surrey and taken to the Warenne stronghold of Castle Reigate, though questions were raised by contemporary chroniclers over the degree to which Alice may have been complicit. The disreputable Warrene is thought to have carried out the abduction in order to humiliate Thomas of Lancaster, who had helped block Warenne's divorce, and had persuaded the Bishop of Chichester to prosecute Warenne for his adultery with his mistress which had resulted in Warenne's excommunication in 1316.\n\nThere is a story that one of the Knights who abducted her on Warenne's behalf, described as an undersized hunchback named Richard de St. Martin, claimed that Alice was his wife on the ground that he had carried her off and married her before she was betrothed to the Earl of Lancaster. There can be no truth in this story as she was only \"in her 9th year\" when she was betrothed, and only 12 years old when she married Thomas. This story, however, shows the lengths to which Warenne may have stooped to humiliate Thomas.\n\nAfter Alice was abducted her husband Thomas then waged a private war on Warenne, but never once asked for Alice's return. Thomas also thought King Edward II, his cousin, had been involved in the planning of the abduction. It is not known when Alice was released, and her whereabouts from 1317 to 1322 are uncertain. Some also believe, based on an old ballad, that she divorced Thomas during this time. However, her subsequent treatment by the King indicates that she had remained married to Thomas.\n\nThomas of Lancaster was captured at Boroughbridge after the failure of his rebellion against the King. On 22 March 1322 he was executed for treason at what had been Alice's family home of Pontefract Castle but that had become his favourite residence. With Thomas gone Alice should have had control of the vast inheritances from both of her parents for the first time. Thomas's estates were forfeited to the Crown, but that could not legally include the estates that he controlled by right of his wife and that were her inheritance. However, the King found other ways to punish the traitor's widow and confiscate her lands.\n\nA few days later in March 1322, the King had Alice arrested and imprisoned at York, along with her stepmother, Joan Martin, whose second husband, Nicholas de Audeley, had died 5 years earlier in 1316. (Joan died in October 1322.) Why Joan, who was a similar age to Alice was also imprisoned is unknown. It could have been out of spite from the King who in 1318 had accused Joan of \"scheming to thwart\" the hearing of a legal case, or simply because she was there at the time of Alice's arrest.\n\nImprisoned and under the threat of execution Alice surrendered into the King's hands on 26 June 1322, a great part of the lands which she had inherited from her father, in order to secure the confirmation of some portion of these possessions to herself. This was effectively the extortion by the King of her father's family estates that had been predated the Earldom of Lincoln such as Pontefract, though she was then permitted to hold some of her estates in life tenure by the king's \"special grace\". Many of her extorted estates were given by the King to the elder Hugh Despenser and his son Hugh Despenser the Younger, the King's nephew-by-marriage and favorite, who had both returned to England from exile in May 1322 and were now both involved in assisting the King in his attempt to \"legally\" obtain Alice's estates. Notably the elder Hugh Despenser was given Denbigh. To help add credence to the \"legality\" of the disposal of her lands to the Despenser's the King had Alice style Hugh le Despenser the younger as \"kinsman\".\n\nAlice was not released until she paid a staggering indemnity of £20,000 to the Crown. Only by paying the indemnity was she to be allowed to remarry if she so wished, and to be granted those lands that remained of her inheritance. On 20 September 1322, Edward granted the Constableship of Lincoln Castle to Alice as her right and inheritance, and restored to her for life the annuity which her father had received in lieu of the third penny of the county of Lincoln. Her Earldom of Salisbury had reverted to the Crown in March 1322, but her Earldom of Lincoln was restored to her in December 1322.\n\nEven so, on her release Alice was placed on virtual house arrest for her \"own protection\". During this time she was compelled to dispose of more of her inheritance, this time from lands she had inherited from her mother. John de Warenne, the man who had abducted her in 1317, was given a life grant of many of her manors in the West, and Hugh Despenser the Younger was given one of her manors in Lincolnshire. Some of her many forfeited lands were returned to her, but only for life, by Edward III of England in 1331.\n\nIn 1324, possibly before Easter and definitely before 10 November, Alice married Eubulus le Strange. At the age of 42 it was not expected that she would bear any children to this union, and this was to be the case. This marriage appears to have been a loving, happy union. Eubulus described her in documents as his 'dear and loving companion' and never claimed the title of Earl of Lincoln by right of his wife as he was entitled to do. The King was worried, however, and required that all the estates that Alice had been forced to relinquish before this marriage had to be confirmed so that Eubulus could not make a claim on them by right of his wife. As a reward for Alice's co-operation the King confirmed the life grants he had made to Alice, and discharged her of her first husband Thomas's debts.\n\nIn January 1327 Edward II, who had been imprisoned in 1326 by his Queen Isabella and her lover Roger Mortimer, was forced to abdicate in favour of his son - it was generally believed that Edward II was then murdered by an agent of Isabella and Mortimer in September 1327. As her son Edward was still in his minority, Isabella became regent. Alice's estates that had given to the Despensers, reverted to Edward II in 1326 when the Despensers were executed by Isabella. Isabella now had control of these estates which nominally belonged to her son. Isabella appropriated for herself much of Alice's rightful inheritance, while Roger Mortimer took possession of Denbigh.\n\nIn 1330, Edward III gained control of the government from his mother and her lover. He assumed most of Alice's inheritance and gave it, including the lordship of Denbigh, to William Montacute, his great friend who had helped him to overthrow Mortimer. Montacute also received Alice's earldom of Salisbury which had been taken from Alice in 1322. Since Alice's husband Eubulus was involved in Edward III's plot of 1330 to bring down Isabella and Mortimer, Alice and he were rewarded by the return of some of her estates. This was probably the most secure time in Alice's adult life. Alice and her second husband were the recipients of many honours, grants of land and money, and responsibility. Eubulus died in September 1335. In her mourning, Alice took a vow of chastity.\n\nAlice, with her rich inheritance, did not remain a widow for long, though she was at this time 54 years of age. Late in 1335 or early in 1336 she was abducted from the castle of Bolingbroke and, ignoring her vow of chastity, raped by Hugh de Freyne, Baron Freyne. (A letter from the Pope seems to reproach Alice for \"allowing\" the rape to happen.) Alice became de Freyne's wife before 20 March 1336. Historian Michael Prestwich describes the abduction thus, in his \"The Three Edwards\":\n\nThe marriage had taken place without the King's licence, so orders were sent to the Sheriffs of Lincoln, Oxford, and many other counties, to take into the King's hands the lands, goods, and chattels of Hugh de Freyne and Alice, Countess of Lincoln, and to keep the same until further order; the said Hugh and Alice having escaped from the castle of Somerton, where the King had ordered them to be kept separately, because Hugh took her from the castle of Bolingbroke by force. Apparently the offence was condoned, probably by payment of a fine, as an order was issued on 20 March 1336, to deliver to Alice and Hugh de Freyne a message at Newbury, Berkshire, and other manors were restored to her in the following year.\n\nHugh de Freyne didn't live very long to enjoy her vast inheritance as he died in December 1336 or early 1337, and she returned to her vow of chastity.\n\nOn 4 May 1337 Alice complained that she had been imprisoned yet again. Eubulus's nephew and heir Roger le Strange (who would succeed on Alice's death to such property as Eubulus had held in his own right), together with Sir John de Lacy of Lacyes (Alice's illegitimate half-brother), and others, broke into her castle of Bolingbroke, imprisoned her there, took away 20 of her horses, carried away her goods, and assaulted her men and servants. The quarrel was made up with Roger before long, and on 20 June 1337, Alice obtained licence to grant to Roger her life estate in some manors that had been granted by the King jointly to Alice and Eubulus.\n\nAlice is referred to in documents of Edward II's reign (during the time of her marriage to Thomas, her first widowhood, and the early years of her marriage to Eubulus) as Lady Alice, or Alice de Lacy, Countess of Lincoln. In later life, she called herself Countess of Lincoln or Widow of Eubulus Lestrange. Alice lived until the age of 66 in October 1348 and was buried next to her beloved Eubulus at Barlings Abbey. A few months before her death, Alice's nephew-by-marriage from her first marriage to Thomas of Lancaster, Henry of Grosmont, 1st Duke of Lancaster, appeared as a petitioner on Alice's behalf in a legal action (an oyer and terminer) about vandalism to one of the estates. His actions, however, were not without personal motive as by her first marriage settlement he was the heir to the remaining lands that she held from her father's estate, and the legal action was about vandalism to and poaching from one of the estates that he was to inherit. Nevertheless, historian Linda Mitchell believes that his assumption of responsibility on Alice's behalf can be seen \"as a mark of respect for the woman wronged so shamefully by his family.\" For the last 10 years of her life, after the death by de Freyne, Alice also appears to have had the support of Edward III in that commissions of oyer and terminers that Alice requested during this time seem to have been promptly appointed and thoroughly investigated.\n\nAlice died childless at Barlings Abbey. Her Earldom of Lincoln became extinct upon her death. By the terms of her first marriage settlement, her remaining lands from her father's inheritance went to her nephew-by-marriage Henry of Grosmont, 1st Duke of Lancaster, and remaining lands from her mother's inheritance were inherited by James de Audley, her Longespee cousin through his paternal line, who also happened to be her stepmother and father's widow Joan Martin's son from her second marriage. However, weighed against the extensive manors which Alice had once possessed in right of her inheritance as Countess of Lincoln and of Salisbury, she had comparatively little to leave after her death. Many of her lands had been forfeited to the Crown in 1322 and 1323, and for those lands that were restored she had accepted a life interest. Other grants of lands from the King jointly to Alice and her second husband, Eubulus le Strange, she held a life estate in after Eubulus' death, and these went to Eubulus' heir, his nephew Roger le Strange.\n\n"}
{"id": "1683515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683515", "title": "Alpha Dog", "text": "Alpha Dog\n\nAlpha Dog is a 2006 American crime drama film written and directed by Nick Cassavetes, first screened at the Sundance Film Festival on January 27, 2006, with a wide release the following year on January 12, 2007. Starring Emile Hirsch, Justin Timberlake, Ben Foster, Shawn Hatosy, Anton Yelchin, Olivia Wilde, Amanda Seyfried with Harry Dean Stanton, Sharon Stone, and Bruce Willis, the film is based on the true story of the kidnapping and murder of Nicholas Markowitz in 2000.\n\nIn 1999, Johnny Truelove is a young drug dealer living in the San Gabriel Valley, in Southern California. His father, Sonny, supplies him with marijuana, which Johnny distributes to his gang of friends, which include Frankie Ballenbacher, Johnny’s right-hand man; Tiko Martinez, the muscle of the group; Elvis Schmidt, a ridiculed member of the group who is indebted to Johnny; and Jake Mazursky, a short-tempered skin head who is also in debt with Johnny.\n\nJake goes to his parents’ home in Claremont and makes a failed attempt at borrowing money from his father Butch and stepmother Olivia, who themselves are dealing with their other rebellious son: Zack Mazursky, Jake’s younger half-brother who looks up to him. That night, a fight breaks out between Jake and Johnny when the former tries to pay Johnny only part of his debt. After back and forth escalating retaliation, Johnny brings Frankie and Tiko to go and confront Jake in person, but when they arrive at his apartment he is nowhere to be found. \n\nAt the Mazursky home, Olivia and Butch find drugs in Zack’s possession and confront him, but Zack decides to sneak out and run away from home. Driving by, Johnny spots him on the side of the road and impulsively orders the gang to kidnap him with the intent of holding on to him until Jake pays his debt.\n\nWanting a break from his home life, Zack makes no effort to escape. The group drives down to Palm Springs with plans to party for the next few days. Johnny leaves Frankie to watch Zack and he offers Zack a chance to leave, but Zack declines, not wanting to cause any problems for his brother. Zack stays with Frankie at his father's house and the two develop a friendship over drinking, smoking, and doing chores around Frankie’s house. The next day, Zack ingratiates himself with Frankie's friends Keith, Julie, Sabrina and Susan, although the latter is the only one who seems concerned.\n\nFrankie meets with Johnny and grows nervous when Johnny tells him that they could get in serious trouble for the kidnapping. Frankie suggests they pay Zack to keep quiet about the kidnapping upon returning home; Johnny agrees. However, the next day after a threatening phone call from Jake, and a phone conversation from his lawyer who tells him he could face life in prison for the kidnapping, he decides the risk of ending up dead or in jail is too great to let Zack go. Johnny calls Elvis and offers to erase his debt if he kills Zack, giving him a submachine gun. Frankie and his friends still believe Zack will be returning home that night and throw a raucous going away party at a hotel. Zack has a good time at the party, and later goes skinny dipping with Julie and her friend Alma, which leads to Zack hooking up with them in the pool. The party soon ends and everybody happily says good-bye to Zack and leave Zack, Frankie, and Keith at the hotel.\n\nElvis arrives at the hotel where Zack is waiting to be picked up, and he and Frankie begin to argue when he reveals Johnny sent him there to kill Zack. While Frankie runs off, Elvis goes inside and introduces himself to Zack. Elvis then takes Keith out to help him dig a grave in a secluded part of the nearby mountains. Frankie returns to the hotel and offers Zack a final opportunity to escape, but believing that he will be returning home soon, Zack prefers to wait for Elvis. When Elvis and Keith return to the hotel, Elvis and Frankie go outside to talk. Frankie, reluctant because of the friendship he has formed with Zack, finally relents when Elvis tells him they could face life in prison, in addition to problems with Jake and Johnny, if Zack goes free. Meanwhile, Sonny, Cosmo (Johnny's godfather), and their lawyer confront Johnny, who stubbornly refuses to call off the hit, even when given the offer to spend a minimal amount of jail time with a plea deal.\n\nZack and the others arrive at the grave site. Zack is not aware of what's going on but grows suspicious when a saddened Keith tells Frankie he can't go through with it. When Zack sees the grave, he begins to break down, and begs them to let him go. Frankie tells Elvis one last time that they shouldn’t do it, but Elvis insists on following through. Frankie calms Zack down and proceeds to tie Zack up with duct tape. Elvis then knocks Zack into the grave with the shovel and shoots him to death. Despite the seclusion of the spot, Zack’s body is eventually found days later.\n\nCertain parts of the film are intercut with scenes from interviews, conducted by detective Tom Finnegan, of people connected to Johnny and his group. The film also makes note of the multiple witnesses—ranging from onlookers, partygoers, friends, and family members—that saw Zack in between his initial kidnapping and eventual murder, which total up to 32. The epilogue shows the aftermath of the crime. Olivia, now suffering from obesity and depression, talks candidly to Finnegan about her suicide attempts and the loss that she has experienced from her son's death. Susan angrily confronts Frankie over Zack's death and goes to the authorities. Elvis is caught while trying to secure a ride out of town. Johnny flees the city as far as Albuquerque and arrives at the house of an old classmate, who drives him to Cosmo’s house, where he enters and is not seen again.\n\nTiko, Keith, and Frankie are all arrested and serve their respective sentences—Tiko is convicted of kidnapping and sentenced to nine years in prison; Keith is convicted of second degree murder for digging Zack's grave and remains at the California Youth Authority until the age of 25; Frankie is convicted of aggravated kidnapping of special circumstances and receives a life sentence with the possibility of parole after 7 years; Elvis is convicted of kidnapping and first degree murder, and is currently on Death Row in San Quentin State Prison.\n\nFinnegan interviews Sonny and Cosmo, asking Sonny how his son was able to escape authorities for four years without help, but Sonny assures him he doesn't know where his son is. On screen text reveals that in 2005, after over five years of being on America's most wanted list, Johnny is finally found and arrested in Paraguay. Johnny is in California awaiting trial, and, if proven guilty, faces the death penalty.\n\n\nDuring filming, Santa Barbara County Deputy District Attorney Ronald J. Zonen provided copies of many documents on the case and served as an unpaid consultant to the film, citing his desire to have Hollywood captured. Zonen prosecuted Hollywood’s co-defendants and was poised to prosecute Hollywood. After Hollywood was captured in Saquarema, Brazil, and subsequently returned to the United States, his defense lawyer claimed Zonen had a conflict of interest; the California Court of Appeal for the Second District ruled on October 5, 2006, that Zonen should be recused from further involvement in prosecuting Hollywood because of his disclosure of the files and work on the film. The California Supreme Court subsequently reversed that holding, but Zonen was replaced as lead prosecution attorney by Deputy District Attorney Joshua Lynn.\n\nHollywood's attorney, James Blatt, tried to block the release of the film. After the delay, Hollywood's trial started May 15, 2009, with the defense's opening statements saying Hollywood was not involved with the murder. In his opening statement, Lynn described Hollywood as \"a ruthless coward.\" On July 8, 2009, Hollywood was convicted of simple kidnapping and first-degree murder with special circumstances and was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.\n\nDuring its opening weekend, \"Alpha Dog\" grossed $6,412,775 and was #7 at the box office. The film closed on February 22, 2007 after grossing $15,309,602 domestically, and totaled $32,145,115 worldwide over its six-week release.\n\nThe film received mixed reviews; out of 143 critics, 55% of them were positive with the consensus being, \"a glossy yet unflinching portrait of violent, hedonistic teenagers. Bruce Willis and Sharon Stone chew the scenery, while Justin Timberlake gives a noteworthy performance.\"\n\nYelchin was praised as \"able to bring all of the conflicting emotions of Zack,\" and conveying all of it beautifully.\n\nAudiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B-\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nSusan Markowitz attempted suicide three times. Jeff Markowitz elaborated, \"She is so tortured by what happened that she has tried to take her own life. The last thing that either of us want is to see this picture. How would any loving parent feel about a Hollywood movie that glamorizes their son's death and allows celebrities to cash in on a brutal, evil murder?\" Nonetheless, both Susan and Jeff attended the film's premiere, and Susan stated she was moved by Anton Yelchin's portrayal of Zack (Nick). After the screening, she embraced Sharon Stone, who played Olivia (Susan).\n\n\"Alpha Dog\" was released on DVD on May 1, 2007. It includes a DVD/HD DVD combo package where both forms are included in one box. DVD sales gathered $12,324,535 in revenue from 743,036 units sold. It was released on the Blu-ray format on July 13, 2010.\n\nA soundtrack was released by Milan Records on January 9, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "6771914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6771914", "title": "Battle of Barking Creek", "text": "Battle of Barking Creek\n\nThe Battle of Barking Creek was a friendly fire incident over England on 6 September 1939, resulting in the first death of a British fighter pilot in the Second World War.\n\nAt on 6 September 1939, a radar fault led to a false alarm that unidentified aircraft were approaching from the east at high altitude over West Mersea, on the Essex coast. No. 11 Group ordered six Hurricanes to be scrambled from 56 Squadron, based at North Weald Airfield in Essex. The sector controller, Group Captain David Frederick Lucking, sent up the entire unit of 14 aircraft. Unbeknown to the rest of the pilots, two Pilot Officers took up a pair of reserve aircraft and followed at a distance.\n\nHurricanes from 151 Squadron (also from North Weald), and Spitfires from 54, 65 and 74 Squadrons based at Hornchurch Airfield scrambled. None of the Royal Air Force pilots had been in action and few had seen a German aircraft. Communication between the pilots and command centres was poor and there was no procedure for pilots to distinguish between British and \"Luftwaffe\" aircraft. Identification friend or foe (IFF) sets were still being developed and had not been installed in many RAF aircraft.\n\nWith everyone in the air expecting to see enemy aircraft and no experience of having done so, 'A' Flight of 74 Squadron saw what they believed were German aeroplanes and their commander, Adolph \"Sailor\" Malan, allegedly gave a clear and definite order to engage. Two of the three, Flying Officer Vincent 'Paddy' Byrne and Pilot Officer John Freeborn, opened fire. Malan later claimed to have given a last minute call of \"friendly aircraft – break away!\" but if this was true, it was not heard by Byrne and Freeborn. Richard Hough and Denis Richards wrote that further losses were prevented by the 151 Squadron commanding officer, Squadron Leader Edward Donaldson, who alerted his pilots that the attacking aircraft were British and gave the order not to retaliate.\n\nFrank Rose and Pilot Officer Montague Hulton-Harrop were shot down and Hulton-Harrop was killed. Fired upon by John Freeborn, he had been hit in the back of the head and was dead before his Hurricane crashed at Manor Farm, Hintlesham, Suffolk, about west of Ipswich. Hulton-Harrop was the first British pilot killed in the war and his Hurricane was the first aircraft shot down by a Spitfire. A Spitfire was shot down by British anti-aircraft fire.\n\nThe court martial of John Freeborn and Paddy Byrne at the Bentley Priory headquarters of Fighter Command was held in camera; in 2010, the papers had still not been released. According to author Bill Nasson, it is well known that Freeborn felt that his commanding officer, Sailor Malan, tried to evade responsibility for the attack. Malan testified for the prosecution against his pilots, stating that Freeborn had been irresponsible, impetuous and had not taken proper heed of vital communications. During the trial, Freeborn's counsel, Sir Patrick Hastings, called Malan a bare-faced liar.\n\nThe court exonerated both pilots, ruling that the case was an unfortunate accident. In 1990, Hough and Richards wrote, \n\nIn 2003, Patrick Bishop wrote that the incident exposed the inadequacies of RAF radar and identification procedures, leading to them being greatly improved by the crucial period of the Battle of Britain, a view echoed in a 2012 publication by Philip Kaplan.\n\nMontague Hulton-Harrop is buried with a war grave headstone at St Andrew's Church in North Weald. Group Captain Lucking was removed from his post. He was an engineering officer who, in the practice of the RAF until the war, served in the General Duties Branch and could be assigned to non-engineering duties. He was returned to engineering duties later that month as OC (Officer Commanding) 32 MU, transferred to the newly formed Technical Branch in 1940 and was promoted to air commodore in December 1941. He died in 1970, aged 75. Frank Rose was killed in action over Vitry-en-Artois, France, on 18 May 1940. Malan went on to be one of the most successful Allied fighter pilots of the war, shooting down 27 Luftwaffe aircraft and rising to group captain. He received the Distinguished Service Order and bar and the Distinguished Flying Cross. On his return to South Africa he worked against the apartheid regime until his death in 1963.\n\nPaddy Byrne was shot down and captured over France in 1940. He was detained at \"Stalag Luft III\" alongside his former defence lawyer Roger Bushell. In 1944 he was repatriated, having convinced the Germans and the repatriation board that he was mad. On his return to England he was reinstated into the RAF and given a ground position. John Freeborn flew more operational hours in the Battle of Britain than any other pilot, remained on operations for the rest of the war and proved to be an outstanding airman. He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and bar and rose to wing commander. Freeborn finally told some of his version of events in a 2002 biography called \"A Tiger's Tale\", before co-authoring a more complete account in \"Tiger Cub\". In 2009, Freeborn told an interviewer of his regret about Hulton-Harrop's death, saying, \"I think about him nearly every day. I always have done... I've had a good life, and he should have had a good life too\". Freeborn was twice married, first in 1941 to Rita Fielder, who died in 1979 and then Peta in 1983, who died in 2001. Freeborn died on 28 August 2010 and was survived by a daughter from his first marriage.\n\n\nBooks\n\nJournals\n\n"}
{"id": "42610931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42610931", "title": "Bullying and emotional intelligence", "text": "Bullying and emotional intelligence\n\nBullying is abusive social interaction between peers can include aggression, harassment, and violence. Bullying is typically repetitive and enacted by those who are in a position of power over the victim. A growing body of research illustrates a significant relationship between bullying and emotional intelligence. Emotional intelligence (EI) is a set of abilities related to the understanding, use and management of emotion as it relates to one's self and others. Mayer et al., (2008) defines the dimensions of overall EI as: \"accurately perceiving emotion, using emotions to facilitate thought, understanding emotion, and managing emotion\". The concept combines emotional and intellectual processes. Lower emotional intelligence appears to be related to involvement in bullying, as the bully and/or the victim of bullying. EI seems to play an important role in both bullying behavior and victimization in bullying; given that EI is illustrated to be malleable, EI education could greatly improve bullying prevention and intervention initiatives.\n\nBullying is the most prevalent form of violence in schools and has lasting consequences into adulthood. Increased concern regarding school bullying has been raised in part due to publicized suicides of childhood victims. Around 40% of middle school children are directly involved in bullying at least once a week according to the National Center of Education Statistics. Pre-adolescent research confirms such a negative relationship between trait EI and bullying behavior; bullying behavior is negatively associated with total empathy and more specifically, the EI dimension of cognitive empathy, which is the ability to understand or take on the emotional experiences and perspectives of others. It was found that adolescent bullying peer relations are also significantly negatively correlated with the dimension of EI that was conceptualized by Lomas et al. (2012) as Understanding the Emotions of Others. While the term naming the dimension varies within the research, the dimension of EI that appears to have the strongest inverse relationship with enacting bullying behavior throughout the literature is one’s ability to understand the emotional experience of other people. Because bullying behavior in school-aged children is related to lower levels of understanding of other’s emotions, one theory is that children who exhibit bullying behaviors are not able to fully understand the impact that they have on their victims. Indeed, when differentiating between the different components of empathy, it is the cognitive component that bullies seem to have the most deficit in. In addition to the inability to relate to the emotions of others, research also suggests that those who engage in bullying behavior may also lack proper skills in dealing with their own emotions, another aspect of EI often referred to as emotional facilitation or self-efficacy. The poor use of emotions is found to be significant in predicting problem behavior among adolescents, such as aggression, which can be characteristic in bullying behavior. In this way, the ability to understand and manage one’s own emotions may play an important role in preventing children from engaging in bullying behavior. For example, in a study among adolescent girls, it was found that better management of stress could prevent the perpetuation of aggression and violence.\n\nWorkplace bullying is reported to be far more prevalent than perhaps commonly thought. For some reason, workplace bullying seems to be particularly widespread in healthcare organizations; 80% of nurses report experiencing workplace bullying. Similar to the school environment for children, the work environment typically places groups of adult peers together in a shared space on a regular basis. In such a situation, social interactions and relationships are of great importance to the function of the organizational structure and in pursuing goals. The emotional consequences of bullying put an organization at risk of losing victimized employees. Bullying also contributes to a negative work environment, is not conducive to necessary cooperation and can lessen productivity at various levels. Bullying in the workplace is associated with negative responses to stress. The ability to manage emotions, especially emotional stress, seems to be a consistently important factor in different types of bullying. The workplace in general can be a stressful environment, so a negative way of coping with stress or an inability to do so can be particularly damning. Workplace bullies may have high social intelligence and low emotional intelligence. In this context, bullies tend to rank high on the social ladder and are adept at influencing others. The combination of high social intelligence and low empathy is conducive to manipulative behavior, such that Hutchinson (2013) describes workplace bullying to be. In working groups where employees have low EI, workers can be persuaded to engage in unethical behavior. With the bullies' persuasion, the work group is socialized in a way that rationalizes the behavior, and makes the group tolerant or supportive of the bullying. Hutchinson & Hurley (2013) make the case that EI and leadership skills are both necessary to bullying intervention in the workplace, and illustrates the relationship between EI, leadership and reductions in bullying. EI and ethical behavior among other members of the work team have been shown to have a significant impact on ethical behavior of nursing teams. Higher EI is linked to improvements in the work environment and is an important moderator between conflict and reactions to conflict in the workplace. The self-awareness and self-management dimensions of EI have both been illustrated to have strong positive correlations with effective leadership and the specific leadership ability to build healthy work environments and work culture.\n\nGiven lower emotional intelligence, it is also possible that many bullies are more malevolently creative. When original, the acts of aggression and abuse found in both childhood and adult bullying are considered examples of malevolent creativity (MC). Findings suggest that individuals lower in EI conceive more malevolently creative solutions, which theoretically leads to more malevolently creative behaviors. It is conjectured that people with lower emotional intelligence may not see the impropriety in malevolently creative ideas or disregard how others would perceive them, and thus they have less issue with disclosing such ideas. Given the hypothesis that more malevolently creative solutions should lead to more malevolently creative behaviors, this theory makes sense in light of the deficit in cognitive empathy found in bullying behavior.\n\nThere may also be a subtype of bully that is high in callous and unemotional traits (CU). CU traits include some of the discussed deficits in EI such as lack of empathy, as well as other traits such as a lack of guilt, shallow capacity for emotion and poor behavioral modulation when faced with punishment. Given that children who bully often have conduct problems, and CU traits are often co-occurring with conduct problems, Viding et al., (2009) investigated the relationship between CU and bullying behavior. Given that previous research suggests children with conduct problems fall into subtypes of those with high CU traits and those without, it was possible that this creates a distinction among bullies. Higher CU was independently correlated to direct bullying, which is associated with lack of empathy, while indirect bullying is not. When combined with conduct problems, CU increased the risk of direct and indirect bullying behaviors. Bullies high in CU traits will probably be resistant to many of the interventions successful with bullies who are not. Although a defining characteristic of CU is a lack of empathy, which overlaps with bullies deficits in empathy as highlighted above, the other characteristics of the concept would make bullies high in CU less malleable than those who simply have lower EI.\n\nBeing bullied can have a negative impact on the victim's life: Bullied children may go on to be maladjusted socially and emotionally, and worsen in behavior. Adults who are bullied in the workplace may have deteriorated self-esteem, suffer from isolation and become fearful and avoidant after being victimized. They may disengage and withdraw from their work community. Both child and adult victims are at greater risk of developing mental pathology. EI is found to be a significant predictor of variance in adolescent peer victimization in bullying and also has a negative correlation with adolescent bullying. Victim peer relations showed strong negative correlations with the emotional management and facilitation dimensions of EI conceptualized as Emotional Management and Control and Emotions Direct Cognitions respectively, both of which made significant semi-partial contributions to the overall model of Emotional Intelligence. These results indicate that victims may have less ability to handle their emotions or to use them to make decisions in response. The inability to manage one’s own emotions can lead to rejection, or further rejection, from peers which can help perpetuate victimization and further damage a victim’s social skills; peer relationships and support are influential on emotional adjustment. In workplace bullying the workgroup’s rejection isolates the victim and causes guilt and fear, causing withdrawal from the group and reducing opportunities for social support. In addition to self-efficacy, victimization is also found to be negatively correlated to cognitive and affective empathy.\n\nThere is a strong positive relationship between engaging in bullying behaviors and having been victimized by bullying behaviors. This is both a common finding in review of the research and is in tune with what is commonly observed during human adolescence; often victims of bullying go on to become bullies themselves. A history of victimization often leads to a perpetuation of similar behavior. Having low emotional intelligence increases the likelihood of being both a victim and a bully, which are apparently not mutually exclusive roles. This dual status is sometimes referred to as being a bully-victim. Bully-victims seem to be the most troubled. They tend to exhibit more emotional issues like low impulse control and self-esteem as well as social issues, such as the inability to interpret social cues or make friends. They may begin with pre-existing issues with behavior and emotion, and more often come from dysfunctional families. Childhood bully-victims also fare worse in adulthood than 'pure' bullies or victims. Across multiple areas, bully-victims had the greatest impairment in adult functioning and worse health outcomes including the diagnosis of a serious illness or psychiatric disorder. Bully-victims had similarly poor outcomes in educational achievement as bullies and also shared similar likelihood to some of the measured risk behaviors, all status groups showed impairment in some categories like wealth attainment and social relationships. When controlling for other factors pure bullies are no longer at an elevated risk across all these categories, which bullying is predictive of regardless of victim status, though bully-victims and victims remain at higher risk. While some dimensions of EI seem more predictive of one status or the other (that of the bully or the victim), there are dimensions of EI, such as empathy and self-efficacy, that have significant negative relationships with both. Additionally, EI as a whole is significant in predicting for victim status. Thus, victims may also be deficient in the dimensions of EI that correlate to becoming a bully, a risk that could be expected to be exacerbated by the damage to one's psycho-social health due to being a victim. Students who experience bullying often have a harder time adapting healthy relationships when they get older.\n\nThe most effective bullying interventions will likely be those that are dynamic and theory-driven in approach. Conventional intervention efforts have had small impact and mixed results in reducing bullying among children. These earlier models were based on descriptive data and focused on correcting the behavior of children who were already bullies or victims. Domino (2013) notes a theoretical shift from focus on deficit-based intervention to strength-based intervention.\n\nTake The Lead (TTL) is a curriculum for middle school students combining social emotional learning (SEL) and positive youth development (PYD). SEL is a process of building social competence and emotional intelligence through a set of pertinent skills. PYD is a SEL program that uses social end emotional learning to promote healthy outcomes for the children by developing, then applying, the learned individual and group skills. Meta-analysis of 213 studies linked SEL to significant improvement in interpersonal relationships, social skills, behavior issues, substance abuse and aggression. Positive contributions to the impact of SEL were found to be made by the development and application of social skills, social support and positive behavior reinforcement. Meta-analysis of 25 programs illustrated significant positive changes in interpersonal skills, self-control, problem-solving and both peer and adult relationships as a result of PYD as well as significant decrease in negative risk behaviors such as substance abuse, acts of aggression, truancy and risky sexual behavior. The most important elements of PYD for positive outcomes in the analysis were incorporation of emotional intelligence and self-efficacy, and the development of pro-social norms. Domino (2013) noted that prior research supported SEL and PYD being applied to youth risk behaviors and that their effectiveness was found to be positive and sustainable, however not much research had been done on a link between the constructs and reduction of bullying specifically. The study then investigates a model, TTL, that combines the SEL and PYD frameworks, strengthened by a social support system. TTL consists of 16 lessons, taught once a week for 16 weeks, during regular 45 minute class periods by teachers that are trained for a minimum of 6 hours.\nThe lessons are accompanied by a goal; for instance, the goal accompanying lesson 10 on Assertiveness is \"Differentiate between assertive, passive, and aggressive communication styles, and practice assertive and empathic interrelating.\". Every lesson includes knowledge, skill and application components so that students are able to practice the learned skills in their life outside of the classroom. A TTL training workshop is offered to the parents of participants and a letter is sent to the parents at the beginning of each segment with information about the lesson, goals and accompanying activities. Domino (2013) applied the TTL intervention to 7th grade students and measured changes in bullying and victim behavior using a quantitative pretest-posttest control group cohort design. Sum scores for bullying and victimization were obtained before and at the completion of the intervention using the PRQ, a self-report survey, completed anonymously.\n\nBeyond preventing bullying, it is also important to consider how interventions based on EI are important in the case that bullying will occur. Increasing EI may be an important step in trying to foster resilience among victims. When a person faces stress and adversity, especially of a repetitive nature, their ability to adapt is an important factor in whether they have a more positive or negative outcome. Resilient individuals are those who are considered to have positive developmental outcomes in light of their negative experiences, such as bullying. Sapouna & Wolke (2013) examined adolescents who illustrated resilience to bullying and found some interesting gendered differences, with higher behavioral resilience found among girls and higher emotional resilience found among boys. Despite these differences, they still implicated internal resources and negative emotionality in either encouraging or being negatively associated with resilience to bullying respectively and urged for the targeting of psychosocial skills as a form of intervention. Emotional Intelligence has been illustrated to promote resilience to stress and as mentioned previously the ability to manage stress and other negative emotions can be preventative of a victim going on to perpetuate aggression. One factor that is important in resilience is the regulation of one's own emotions. Schneider et al. (2013) found that emotional perception was significant in facilitating lower negative emotionality during stress and Emotional Understanding facilitated resilience and has a positive correlation with positive affect.\n\nBooks\n\nAcademic articles\n\n"}
{"id": "12331422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12331422", "title": "Chinese cardboard bun hoax", "text": "Chinese cardboard bun hoax\n\nThe cardboard bun hoax was a falsified news report broadcast in July 2007 on Beijing Television's BTV-7 (the Lifestyle Channel). In the report, footage implied that local vendors were selling pork buns, a common breakfast food, filled with a composite of 60% caustic soda-soaked cardboard and 40% fatty pork. Coming after several highly publicized food safety incidents in China, the report was widely believed and sparked public outrage.\n\nOn July 18, 2007 Chinese law enforcement officials reported that they had detained Zi Beijia (訾北佳), a local freelance reporter, for allegedly faking the news report. Zi, using the alias Hu Yue (胡月), is believed to have hired four migrant workers to make the cardboard buns as he filmed. BTV 7 apologized, saying it was \"profoundly sorry\" for the deception and its \"vile impact on society.\" Beijing's health authorities reported finding no evidence of cardboard in local buns. Furthermore, the Beijing Municipal Food Safety Office found that even if buns are filled with a five percent mixture of cardboard \"the fiber substance can be easily seen, and the meat buns made this way could not be easily chewed.\"\n\nOn August 12, 2007, Zi was sentenced to a year in jail and a fine of $132.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6802428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6802428", "title": "Das Dreimäderlhaus", "text": "Das Dreimäderlhaus\n\nDas Dreimäderlhaus (\"House of the Three Girls\"), adapted into English-language versions as Blossom Time and Lilac Time, is a Viennese pastiche operetta with music by Franz Schubert, rearranged by Hungarian Heinrich Berté (1857–1924), and a libretto by Alfred Maria Willner and . The work gives a fictionalized account of Schubert's romantic life, and the story was adapted from the 1912 novel \"Schwammerl\" by Rudolf Hans Bartsch (1873–1952). Originally the score was mostly Berté, with just one piece of Schubert's (\"Ungeduld\" from \"Die schöne Müllerin\"), but the producers required Berté to discard his score and create a pasticcio of Schubert music.\n\nThe original production opened at the Raimundtheater in Vienna on 15 January 1916 and ran for over 650 performances in its original run in Austria and for hundreds more in Germany, followed by many successful revivals. It starred Fritz Schrödter as Schubert and Anny Rainer as Hannerl. Schrödter was already 60 in 1916. In 1886, he had sung the part of the \"Prince of Song\" (i.e. Schubert) in Franz von Suppé's operetta about Schubert. The operetta spawned a sequel entitled \"Hannerl\". Debuting during World War I, the operetta's popularity was fueled by the public's taste for nostalgia, harnessing an old-fashioned, sentimental story and Schubert's familiar music. Schubert worked hard during his lifetime to become a successful opera composer but found little success in this genre of music. With \"Das Dreimäderlhaus\", ironically, his music finally became famous in a stage work.\n\n\"Das Dreimäderlhaus\" then premiered in Paris on May 7, 1921 in a French adaptation by Hugues Delorme and Léon Abric called Chanson d'amour (Song of Love). The operetta was a success in France, and soon an English language adaption opened on Broadway as Blossom Time, with a new arrangement of Schubert's music by Sigmund Romberg and an adapted libretto by Dorothy Donnelly. This debuted at the Ambassador Theatre on September 29, 1921, where it ran for 592 performances; it was revived several times on Broadway over the next two decades. In London, the operetta was called Lilac Time, with an adapted libretto by Adrian Ross and music arranged by George H. Clutsam, using some of Berté's work. \"Lilac Time\" opened at the Lyric Theatre on December 22, 1922 and ran for 626 performances. Both the Broadway and West End versions toured extensively in subsequent decades and were frequently revived until the 1950s.\n\nThe operetta received productions in over 60 countries and was translated into numerous languages. By 1961, the piece was estimated to have played over 85,000 performances worldwide. It still receives occasional productions.\n\nIn the spring of 1826, Schubert, a poor young composer, has quarters in an old Viennese house together with two friends. The three daughters of Christian Tschöll, the court glass maker, visit the three friends. Two of the girls are in love with Schubert's roommates, and the third, Hannerl, is chaperoning her sisters. More of Schubert's friends come to visit. The father arrives in search of his daughters. Schubert's two roommates drink with Tschöll in their courtyard, underneath a Lilac tree, and he agrees to their engagements with his daughters. Schubert takes on Hannerl as his singing pupil, and although the two fall in love, they are each too shy to reveal their feelings.\n\nA couple of months later, the first two daughters are marrying their fiancés at Tschöll's house, and the three roommates are all guests at the wedding. Actress Giuditta Grisi, the mistress of Baron Franz Schober, one of Schubert's friends, arrives. She is jealous and believes that he must be cheating on her. She assumes that Hannerl is the other woman and warns her to stay away from her man. Schubert, still too unable to tell Hannerl that he loves her, instead asks Schober to sing a song that he has written for her (\"Ungeduld\"). Hannerl misunderstands Grisi's warning, believing it to be about Schubert rather than Schober. She turns away from the composer and falls in love with Schober.\n\nIn the Prater the following morning, everyone assembles. Eventually, Schubert ends up alone, disappointed, but consoled by Hannerl's happiness and by his music.\n\nFive years after the Vienna opening, in 1921, the Shubert brothers acquired the American rights to \"Das Dreimäderlhaus\" with a view to customising the operetta for American audiences. They hired Donnelly and Romberg (their house composer) to adapt the libretto and music. The same team, three years later, adapted \"Old Heidelberg\" to make \"The Student Prince\", but in the case of \"The Student Prince\", the entire score was written by Romberg, not by another composer. The Broadway production of \"Blossom Time\" opened at the Ambassador Theatre on September 29, 1921, where it ran for 592 performances, starring Bertram Peacock and Olga Cook. It became the second longest-running Broadway musical of the 1920s and, after extensive tours, played Broadway again in 1939 and 1943. The show was staged by J. C. Huffman.\n\nDonnelly changed the character names and several of the settings. The plot follows the basic story of the original, but many significant details are changed, well-known Schubert pieces are gratuitously inserted and historically inaccurate material familiar to Americans of the era is added. For example, in Act I, Schubert writes \"Ständchen\" for Count Scharntoff, who plans to give it (as his own work) to his wife, who is in love with Schober. Schubert's friends arrange for Hannerl (\"Mitzi\" in this version) to have singing lessons with Schubert as the cover for why the other daughters are there, when the father appears. They then get him drunk so that he agrees to the double wedding. In Act III, some of Schubert's works are about to be given in a concert, but Schubert is too ill to attend. His friends return to his lodgings after the concert just before Schubert dies, surrounded by angels, as \"Ave Maria\" is heard.\n\n\n\nIn 1922, in England, \"Das Dreimäderlhaus\" was adapted as \"Lilac Time\" by Adrian Ross with music by George H. Clutsam. Clutsam, an Australian composer, moved to London and wrote, among other things, a 1912 biography of Schubert. Later, he turned to the more profitable field of composing scores for musical comedies. Clutsam's adaptation hews more closely to Berté's original than does Romberg's. \"Lilac Time\" opened at the Lyric Theatre on December 22, 1922 and ran for 626 performances, starring Courtice Pounds, Percy Heming and Clara Butterworth. Among many revivals was a 1928–1929 production at Daly's Theatre. In 1959, June Bronhill and Thomas Round recorded \"Lilac Time\" for HMV when they were stars of Sadler's Wells Opera. The piece enjoyed numerous revivals in London.\n\nThe plot of \"Lilac Time\" is close to the German original. As in the other adaptations, however, the names of the three sisters are changed. The dialogue is very dated, and a more recent libretto written by Phil Park in 1973 is available, with a new musical adaptation by Ronald Hanmer.\n\n\n\nThe tenor Richard Tauber played Schubert in several productions and tours of \"Das Dreimäderlhaus\" in Europe, first at Plauen, Germany, on 24 January 1920, and then in five performances of the original version at the Theatre an der Wien in October 1921 [Neue Freie Presse]. He presented a new version of it in German in 1933 at the Aldwych Theatre under the title \"Lilac Time\", adapted by himself and Sylvio Mossée. Tauber also made a film version in 1934 with Jane Baxter.\n\nTauber also worked with Clutsam on a new version entitled \"Blossom Time\" based on Tauber's 1934 film. Clutsam included more new material in this version. It debuted on tour in the British provinces, moving to the Lyric Theatre in London on 17 March 1942.\n\nThe original London cast recorded at least four double-sided 12\" acoustic recordings of highlights for the Vocalian company in 1922. The songs recorded included the following:\nThe following discs were also recorded at the same time:\n\nAl Goodman conducted an album of 10 selections from \"Blossom Time\" for RCA Victor in the 1940s, which was briefly issued on LP. Readers Digest included a selection in their album \"A Treasury of Great Operettas\", first offered for sale in 1963. Capriccio released a recording of \"Das Dreimäderlhaus\" in 1997, conducted by Alfred Walter, and Ohio Light Opera released a recording of the opera in 2002. In 2005, UK label Classics for Pleasure, a branch of EMI, released on CD the 1959 HMV recording of \"Lilac Time\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46178295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46178295", "title": "Day to Praise", "text": "Day to Praise\n\nDay to Praise () is a global interfaith praise initiative set forth by CJCUC Chancellor & Founder, Rabbi Shlomo Riskin and CJCUC Executive Director, David Nekrutman. The initiative takes to form in an annual event on Yom Ha'atzmaut (Israel's Independence Day) in which Christians worldwide are called on and invited by Rabbi Riskin to recite Hallel (Psalms 113–118) with the Jewish People in a celebration to praise God for the State of Israel.\n\nHallel consists of six Psalms (113–118), which are recited as a unit, on joyous occasions. These occasions include the following: The three pilgrim festivals Passover, Shavuot, and Sukkot (the \"bigger\" Jewish holy days, mentioned in the Torah) and Hanukkah and Rosh Chodesh (beginnings of the new month).\nTwo years after the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, the Chief Rabbinate in Israel decided that Yom Ha'atzmaut should be given the status of a minor Jewish holiday on which Hallel (Psalms 113–118) be recited. The recitation of the blessing over Hallel was introduced in 1973 by Israeli Chief Rabbi Shlomo Goren.\n\nIn October 2014, Rabbi Shlomo Riskin, the Chancellor & Founder of the Center for Jewish-Christian Understanding and Cooperation (CJCUC), became the first Orthodox rabbi to invite Christian visitors to Israel to participate in a \"praise rally\" with Jewish interfaith leaders at the Center's headquarters during the holiday of Sukkot during which Hallel was recited. This celebratory event would serve as the basis for the eventual conception of the global Day to Praise initiative.\n\nThe Day to Praise Global initiative was launched in March 2015. In an email sent out to Israel supporters worldwide Rabbi Riskin wrote:\nAs part of the praise worship celebrations, Day to Praise produced songs, inspired by the Hallel Psalms. A portion of the proceeds from these songs go to supporting Heart to Heart, a virtual blood donation program in Israel.\n\nThe initiative caused an uproar within the Haredi Jewish circles. In a statement, the once chief Sephardi Rabbi of Israel, and the chief Rabbi of Jerusalem, Rabbi Shlomo Amar, expressed his \"stomach churning\" in light of the joint Hallel prayer of Jews and Christians in a synagogue in Jerusalem being led by Rabbi Shlomo Riskin. In a rebuttal, Rabbi Riskin defended his actions stating, \"We are talking about a thanksgiving prayer to G-d that would include Christians who worship His actions towards the Jewish people and the Land of Israel ... What could possibly be more appropriate?\". Later that year, in September, on the eve of Rosh HaShana (The beginning of the Jewish New Year), Riskin's claim was given further backing by Rabbi Pesach Wolicki. In an article written for The Times of Israel, Wolicki wrote, \"While discomfort is understandable, we dare not assume that what is uncomfortable and new is therefore forbidden.\"\n\nThe first annual Day to Praise took place on 23 April 2015 with the central event taking place at HaZvi Israel Synagogue in Jerusalem. The central Day to Praise event was reportedly joined by tens of thousands of worshipers throughout the world, in their own respective groups.\n\nLater that year, in 2015, during the festival of Sukkot, CJCUC, together with its founder, Rabbi Shlomo Riskin, the chief rabbi of Efrat, hosted an interfaith event in Efrat in which 200 Christians and Jews came together to sing the praises of God in unity. Riskin said that the event would help usher in the Messianic Age.\n\nThe second annual Day to Praise took place on 12 May 2016 and the central event was held in Gush Etzion, the scene of many past terror attacks. The event consisted of 120 representatives of the Jewish and Christian faiths. The representatives were groups from Israel, The United States, Germany and Brazil and international interfaith organizations such as \"Bridges for Peace\" and \"Christian Friends of Israel\".\n\nDuring the event, each of the participants read Psalm 117 in their native language, and then read it together in Hebrew. According to co-founder David Nekrutman, this in-gathering was the fulfilment of the biblical prophecy of Zephaniah: \"For then will I turn to the peoples a pure language that they may all call upon the name of the LORD to serve Him with one consent.\" ()\n\nThe third annual Day to Praise took place on 2 May 2017 and the central event was held in Jerusalem. As per tradition, the Jewish and Christian attendees celebrated by reciting the Psalms 113–118 reportedly joined by hundreds more from around the world. Event co-founder, David Nekrutman, stated that one of the main themes at this year's event was seeing \"the importance of looking at one another and walking together\" within the Psalms themselves. This year's event also marked the golden jubilee of the reunification of Jerusalem. A week before celebrations began, a Day to Praise Hallel service was held in Germany by a group of 125 Christians. It was also reported that a few days later, the synagogue in Youngstown, Ohio invited Christians to join them for a Hallel service.\n\nThe fourth annual Day to Praise took place on 19 April 2018. The central event was held on the eve of April 18 and began with a Memorial Day ceremony for Israel's fallen soldiers. Jews and Christians joined together in an event which \"took them from the depths of sadness over Israel’s losses in wars for survival, to the heights of joy on Israel’s 70th anniversary\". This year's central event was held at the John Hagee Center for Jewish Heritage at the Netanya Academic College where reportedly around 350 Jews and Christians were in attendance. As with every Day to Praise event, attendees recited the Psalms of Praise. Associate director of CJCUC, Rabbi Pesach Wolicki, stated that Christians praising God and praying for Israel is \"an essential piece of the prophetic puzzle\" and that without them the prophecies about Israel's future \"geula\" (redemption) would not be complete.\n"}
{"id": "54867987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54867987", "title": "Dhammachakra Pravartan Day", "text": "Dhammachakra Pravartan Day\n\nDhammachakra Pravartan Day (DhammaChakra Anupravartan Din) is a day to celebrate the Buddhist conversion of B. R. Ambedkar and approximately 600,000 followers on 14 October 1956 at Deekshabhoomi.\n\nEvery year on Ashoka Vijayadashami, millions of Neo-Buddhists and Dalits gather at Deekshabhoomi to celebrate the mass conversion. October 2016 marked the Diamond Jubilee \n"}
{"id": "12018093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12018093", "title": "Emperor Taizong's campaign against Xueyantuo", "text": "Emperor Taizong's campaign against Xueyantuo\n\nEmperor Taizong of Tang (r. 626—649), the second emperor of Chinese dynasty Tang Dynasty, early in his reign, had allied with Xueyantuo, a vassal of the powerful Eastern Tujue (Göktürk) Khanate, against Eastern Tujue, who Tang defeated in 630. Upon Eastern Tujue's defeat, Xueyantuo's Zhenzhu Khan Yi'nan took over Eastern Tujue's former territory, and while he was formally submissive to Tang, he was expanding his own strength. When Emperor Taizong tried to restore Eastern Tujue in 639 under the Qilibi Khan Ashina Simo (also known as Li Simo) to counteract the rise of Xueyantuo power, Xueyantuo engaged in multiple battles with the newly restored Eastern Tujue, in order to prevent this return. The major Tang general Li Shiji temporarily came to protect Eastern Tujue against Xueyantuo and defeated the Xueyantuo forces in 641. But in 644, with Emperor Taizong occupied with a campaign against Goguryeo, Xueyantuo forces launched a new campaign, defeated Eastern Tujue, forcing Ashina Simo to flee back to Tang. Subsequently, Goguryeo sought aid from Xueyantuo, but Yi'nan avoided further conflict, wanting to avoid direct battle with Tang. After Yi'nan's death in 645, however, his son, the Duomi Khan Bazhuo began heavily battling Tang forces. In 646, Tang forces counterattacked, and after they defeated Bazhuo, Xueyantuo's vassal Huige rose and killed him. His cousin, the Yitewushi Khan Duomozhi, surrendered to Tang forces, ending Xueyantuo.\n\nXueyantuo had been long been a member tribe of the Chile confederation, which had in turn been submissive to Tujue, both before and after Tujue's division into Western Tujue and Eastern Tujue, and in the 600s, the Chile had rebelled against Western Tujue's Heshana Khan Ashina Daman, declaring independence under the leadership of Qibi () chieftain Geleng () (with the title Yiwuzhenmohe Khan ()) and the Xueyantuo chieftain Yishibo (with the title Yiedie Khan), but later resubmitted to Western Tujue's Shekui Khan.\n\nAt some point, the Chile became submissive to Eastern Tujue instead, and as of the reign of the Jiali Khan Ashina Duobi, the Xueyantuo were ruled by Yishibo's grandson Yi'nan. However, Ashina Duobi was said to be a poor ruler, and by 627, several members of the Chile—Xueyantuo, Huige, and Bayegu () had rebelled. Ashina Duobi tried to send his nephew Ashina Yugu against Huige, but Ashina Yagu was defeated by the Huige chieftain Pusa (), while Xueyantuo defeated four other Eastern Tujue generals, and Ashina Duobi was not able to resubjugate the Chile rebels. Still, in 628, when these Chile tribes offered the title of khan to Yi'nan, Yi'nan did not initially dare to accept it. However, Emperor Taizong of Tang, hearing this and wanting to establish an alliance with Xueyantuo against Eastern Tujue, sent his general Qiao Shiwang () to Xueyantuo to create Yi'nan the Zhenzhupieqie Khan (or Zhenzhu Khan in short), and subsequently, a large number of Chile and Tujue tribes came under Yi'nan's rule. Subsequently, Tang and Xueyantuo often exchanged emissaries, and Xueyantuo grew stronger at Eastern Tujue's expense.\n\nIn 629, Emperor Taizong commissioned the general Li Jing to lead a major expedition against Eastern Tujue, and in 630, Li Jing captured Ashina Duobi and effectively destroyed Eastern Tujue. Much of the Eastern Tujue people surrendered to Xueyantuo, and some surrendered to Tang. After this event, Xueyantuo was the predominant power north of China, but remained formally submissive to Tang. In 638, Emperor Taizong, with Yi'nan's concurrence, further created Yi'nan's sons Bazhuo and Jialibi () as subordinate khans under Yi'nan—ostensibly to honor them, but hoping to create dissension between them. In 639, when Emperor Taizong commissioned the general Hou Junji to launch a campaign against Gaochang, Yi'nan offered to attack Gaochang at the same time, although Hou's quick conquest of Gaochang appeared to involve no actual Xueyantuo aid.\n\nAlso in 639, however, a Tang action would begin to lead to a deterioration of the relationship between Tang and Xueyantuo. After Ashina Duobi's capture, Emperor Taizong had settled the Eastern Tujue people who surrendered to Tang within Tang borders, without creating a new khan to govern them. However, after he (Emperor Taizong) was nearly assassinated by Ashina Duobi's nephew Ashina Jiesheshuai () in 639, Emperor Taizong changed his mind and created an Eastern Tujue prince loyal to Tang, Ashina Simo as Qilibi Khan (not to be confused with Yi'nan's son Qilibi), to serve as the new khan of Eastern Tujue, intending to settle his state south of the Gobi Desert to serve as a buffer between Tang and Xueyantuo. Yi'nan was distressed by the development, but initially indicated that he accepted it.\n\nAs of 641, Ashina Simo had finally marched north of the Great Wall and settled in at Dingxiang (, in modern Hohhot, Inner Mongolia). Meanwhile, Yi'nan had heard that Emperor Taizong was about to offer sacrifices to heaven and earth at Mount Tai and, believing that the Tang troops would all be with Emperor Taizong, had his son Dadu () launch a major attack on Eastern Tujue, intending to destroy Ashina Simo before Tang could render aid. Ashina Simo withdrew within the Great Wall and took up position at Shuo Prefecture (roughly modern Shuozhou, Shanxi) and sought emergency aid from Tang. Emperor Taizong sent the general Li Shiji, assisted by the generals Zhang Jian (), Li Daliang, Zhang Shigui (), and Li Xiyu (), to attack Xueyantuo. Li Shiji engaged Dadu first and defeated him, forcing him to flee. Meanwhile, Yi'nan had sent an emissary to Emperor Taizong to offer peace with Eastern Tujue, and Li Shiji prevailed over Dadu, Emperor Taizong sent the emissary back with a rebuke for Yi'nan but did not further take actions against Xueyantuo, and thereafter, the relationship between Tang and Xueyantuo officially remained that of lord and vassal, but appeared to be no longer as strong as it had been.\n\nIn 642, Yi'nan began an attempt to cement his relationship with Tang by sending his uncle Nishou () to Tang to request marriage with one of Emperor Taizong's daughters, offering tributes of horses, mink coats, and a mirror made of amber. Meanwhile, with the Tang general Qibi Heli () -- the chief of the Qibi tribe, a constituent tribe of the Chile as well—being detained in Xueyantuo after he, on a visit back to his tribe, was seized by his own subordinates and taken to Xueyantuo (as his subordinates wanted to submit to Xueyantuo rather than Tang), Emperor Taizong, concerned about Qibi Heli's safety (as Qibi Heli had refused to submit to Xueyantuo, cutting off an ear to show his resolve, causing Yi'nan to nearly execute him), agreed to the marriage proposal, sending the official Cui Dunli to negotiate with Yi'nan the terms, under which Emperor Taizong's daughter Princess Xinxing would marry Yi'nan, in exchange for Qibi Heli's release.\n\nIn 643, Yi'nan again sent his nephew Tuli () to offer tributes of 50,000 horses, 10,000 cattle or camels, and 100,000 goats, to serve as bride price. Emperor Taizong welcomed Tuli in a grand ceremony, and Tuli held a great banquet in Emperor Taizong's honor, which Emperor Taizong and his officials personally attended. However, at Qibi's urging, Emperor Taizong was considering renouncing the marriage—initially ordering Yi'nan to personally meet him and Princess Xinxing at Ling Prefecture (, roughly modern Yinchuan, Ningxia) to marry her, believing that Yi'nan would refuse and that he would then have a good excuse to break off the marriage. When Yi'nan agreed to go to Ling Prefecture, Emperor Taizong found another excuse—that the bride price offered had not been all collected (as, in order to gather the livestock making up the bride price, Yi'nan had to collect them from subordinate tribes, and it was taking longer than thought, and the livestock were also dying from having to go through the Gobi) -- to cancel the marriage treaty, despite strong opposition from his official Chu Suiliang, who pointed out that, effectively, he was devaluing his own words. Emperor Taizong rationalized his decision by arguing that if Yi'nan had married a Tang princess, he would have greater legitimacy over the Chile tribes and would be more difficult to control.\n\nMeanwhile, Yi'nan was continuing to attack Eastern Tujue periodically. When Emperor Taizong sent emissaries to try to stop him from doing so, Yi'nan responded:\n\nBy the end of 644, the Eastern Tujue people, who were not whole-heartedly supportive of Ashina Simo in the first place, collapsed in light of Xueyantuo threat, fleeing back to Tang territory, and were again settled there. Ashina Simo also went back to Tang and again became a Tang general, ending Tang's attempt to recreate Eastern Tujue as a vassal state. This caused Emperor Taizong to be displeased, and when Yi'nan subsequently sent an emissary to offer tribute to Emperor Taizong, who was at that time deeply into preparation to attack Goguryeo, Emperor Taizong responded, \"Go back and tell your khan: My son and I are now about to attack Goguryeo. If he thinks that he can take advantage of this, he is welcome to come!\" Yi'nan, fearful of Emperor Taizong's anger, sent another emissary to apologize and offering to assist in the operation against Goguryeo, an offer that Emperor Taizong declined. In 645, after Emperor Taizong had defeated the main Goguryeo forces at Mount Zhubi (), near the fortress of Anshi (, in modern Anshan, Liaoning), Goguryeo's mangniji (regent) Yeon Gaesomun requested that Yi'nan attack Tang, offering great tributes to him if he did. Yi'nan, fearful of Tang power, did not do so. (However, Emperor Taizong was eventually forced to abandon the campaign anyway after being stymied in his siege of Anshi.)\n\nYi'nan died in 645. It was described that at this time, Bazhuo, born of Yi'nan's wife, was governing the western part of Xueyantuo, over the Xueyantuo people, while another son of Yi'nan, Yemang (), who was older but was not born of Yi'nan's wife, was governing the eastern part of Xueyantuo, governing the various tribes. Yemang was said to be violent and disturbed, and also having a bad relationship with Bazhuo. After the funeral, Yemang, fearing that Bazhuo would harm him, left suddenly to return to the eastern part of the khanate. Bazhuo chased him down and killed him, and then took the throne with the title of Jialijulixueshaduomi Khan (or Duomi Khan for short).\n\nBazhuo, after he took the throne, decided to attack Tang, believing that with Emperor Taizong then on campaign against Goguryeo, that Tang borders would be undefended. However, Emperor Taizong, anticipating the possibility of a Xueyantuo attack, had had the general Zhishi Sili () command Tujue soldiers to defend Xia Prefecture (, roughly modern Yulin, Shaanxi). Once Bazhuo attacked, Zhishi Sili and another general, Tian Renhui (), set a trap to induce Bazhuo to attack Xia Prefecture, and dealt him a defeat once he was at Xia Prefecture. Bazhuo withdrew, but soon attacked Xia Prefecture again.\n\nBriefly after the new year 646, Emperor Taizong ordered, in addition to Zhishi and Tian's troops, for troops to be mobilized under the generals Li Daozong the Prince of Jiangxia, Xue Wanche (), Ashina She'er (), Song Junming (), and Xue Guwu (), to defend against Bazhuo's attack, which Bazhuo called off after reaching the Great Wall and realizing that Tang forces had been mobilized. In turn, in spring 646, Zhishi and Qiao Shiwang counterattacked, defeating Bazhuo and forcing him to flee, throwing Xueyantuo into a state of confusion.\n\nMeanwhile, it was said that Bazhuo was intolerant and ill-tempered, as well as suspicious. He removed Yi'nan's chief advisors and replaced them with people close to him, which led to the nobles despising him—and he responded by killing a large number of them, throwing the Xueyantuo court into terror. Yaoluoge Tumidu (), the chieftain of Huige, then a Xueyantuo vassal, rebelled along with the Pugu () and Tongluo () tribes and dealt Bazhuo a great defeat. Emperor Taizong took the chance to order a major assault against Xueyantuo proper by Li, Ashina, Zhishi, Qibi Heli, Xue Wanche, and Zhang Jian. As the assault was beginning, by chance a Tang officer, Yuwen Fa (), was serving as an emissary to the Wuluohu () and the Mohe and returning toward Tang, when he encountered the Xueyantuo general Abo (). Yuwen attacked Abo with the Mohe troops with him at the time and defeated Abo—which led to even greater confusion for Xueyantuo, whose people believed that the main Tang army had already arrived. In panic, Bazhuo fled to the vassal Ashide () tribe, and when Huige forces heard this, they attacked and killed Bazhuo, slaughtering the Xueyantuo imperial clan members that they could find. Many Xueyantuo generals surrendered to Tang.\n\nThe remaining Xueyantuo people briefly supported Yi'nan's nephew Duomozhi as Yitewushi Khan to try to revive Xueyantuo, but neither Tang nor the Chile tribes welcomed this development, and Emperor Taizong sent Li Shiji with an army toward Duomozhi's location—with the instruction to accept Duomozhi's surrender if he wanted to surrender, and to attack if Duomozhi did not. Li Shiji soon arrived at the Khangai, and Duomozhi's assistant Tizhen () surrendered. Duomozhi fled to the south into the canyon. Li Shiji sent his subordinate Xiao Siye () to comfort him, and he surrendered to Xiao. Not all of his subordinates were willing to surrender, however, and Li Shiji attacked them, killing and capturing many of them. Duomozhi was taken to the Tang capital Chang'an and made a Tang general, and Xueyantuo was at its end.\n\n"}
{"id": "28019871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28019871", "title": "First Interstate Tower fire", "text": "First Interstate Tower fire\n\nThe First Interstate Tower fire was a high-rise fire that occurred on May 4, 1988, at the First Interstate Tower (now Aon Center) in Los Angeles, California. The fire destroyed five floors of the building, injured 40 people, and caused the death of a maintenance worker, when the elevator the worker was riding opened onto the burning 12th floor.\n\nThe fire's origin has been attributed to overloading of the building's electrical system by reactive distortion of lighting circuit currents.\n\nThe fire was so severe because the building was not equipped with a sprinkler system, which was not required for office towers at the time construction was completed in 1973. A sprinkler system was 90% installed at the time of the fire, but the system was inoperative, awaiting the installation of water flow alarms. The fire was eventually contained at 2:19 AM, and caused $50 million in damages. \n\nAccording to the FEMA fire incident report on the subject, unusually good application of fireproofing on support members was a significant mitigating factor. The efficacy of the fireproofing was documented both by FEMA and IFC. Fireproofing of structural steel in the US is tested to ASTM E119 Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials.\n\nRepair work took four months. Because of the fire, Los Angeles building codes were changed, requiring all high-rises to be equipped with fire sprinklers. This modified a 1974 ordinance that only required new buildings to contain fire sprinkler systems, grandfathering older buildings.\n\nThe fire was dramatized in the 1991 telefilm, \"Fire: Trapped on the 37th Floor\", starring Lee Majors, Lisa Hartman Black and Peter Scolari.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54483820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54483820", "title": "Governance failure", "text": "Governance failure\n\nA governance failure refers to any failures of governance or ineffectiveness of governance processes.\n\nJessop argues for conceiving governance as a provider of flexibility for decision-making structures opposed to rigid state bureaucracy or market laws. From this approach failures would equate to failures of the governance structure. According to him new constellations of governance may compensate for state failure.\n\nPeters and Pierre state that it is the continuous task of government to adapt to growing complexity.\n\nDixon and Dogan write that constructive governance discourses are creative opportunities for people with disparate governance perspectives to find solutions to threatening governance failure.\n\nGovernance failure may also refer to what can also be described as policy failures − the effectiveness, efficiency, and resilience of specific policies. A frequently mentioned example of a policy failure is the War on Drugs.\n"}
{"id": "1923607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1923607", "title": "Great Plague of Vienna", "text": "Great Plague of Vienna\n\nThe Great Plague of Vienna occurred in 1679 in Vienna, Austria, the imperial residence of the Austrian Habsburg rulers. From contemporary descriptions, the disease is believed to have been bubonic plague, which is caused by the bacterium \"Yersinia pestis\", carried by fleas associated with the black rat and other rodents. The city was crippled by the epidemic, which recurred fitfully into the early 1680s, claiming an estimated 76,000 residents.\n\nVienna, located on the Danube River, was a major trading crossroads between east and west. As a result of this traffic, the city had suffered from episodic plague outbreaks since the first wave of \"Black Death\" in the fourteenth century. The city was crowded and densely built. Descriptions indicate that there were no public sewers or drainage systems, with stinking mounds of domestic garbage littering the streets. In addition, warehouses for trade goods, which held items such as clothing, carpets, and grain for months at a time, were heavily infested with rats. Conditions in the city were considered so unhealthy and filthy, even for the time, that the plague often carried the title \"Viennese death\" in other parts of Europe.\n\nA religious order operating in Vienna, the Brotherhood of the Holy Trinity, created special hospitals for both children and adults during the 1679 epidemic. The basic nursing care offered in the hospitals was simple, but was generally a vast improvement over other medical and public health measures in the city. Doctors treated patients by using emetics, bloodletting, and by applying noxious ointments. The corpses of plague victims were carted to the outer edges of the city and placed in large open pits for burning. However, the pits were exposed to the open air for several days until they were nearly full, allowing ongoing infection of the rat population.\n\nTo commemorate the city's deliverance from the Great Plague and later waves of the disease, the Viennese erected monuments such as the famous Baroque Karlskirche with the associated 69 foot plague columns known as the Pestsäule.\n\nWhat has become known as the \"Great Plague of Vienna\", was actually only a subset of a much larger outbreak across Germany, Austria, Bohemia and neighboring regions. This epidemic appears to have been carried into the region from two opposing directions. It had been raging in Western Europe for many years, traveling East by trade routes. The Great Plague of London of 1665–1666, which is believed to have originated from the Netherlands in the 1650s, killed around 100,000 people, and was the first major epidemic in a series of outbreaks. In 1666 a severe plague raged in Cologne and on the Rhine, which was prolonged until 1670 in the district. In the Netherlands there was plague in 1667–1669, but there are no definite notices of it after 1672. France saw its last plague epidemic in 1668.\n\nIn the years 1675–1684 a new plague wave originated in the Ottoman Empire (Turkey and areas of the Balkans). It moved into North Africa, Bohemia, Poland, Hungary, Austria and Saxony, progressing generally northward. The island of Malta lost 11,000 persons in 1675.\n\nThe plague of Vienna in 1679 was very severe, causing at least 76,000 deaths. Other urban centers in this area of Europe had similar levels of casualties. For instance, Prague in 1681 lost 83,000 due to plague. Dresden was affected in 1680, Magdeburg and Halle in 1682. In Halle, a mortality of 4,397 out of a population of about 10,000 was recorded. Many North German cities suffered during these years; but, by 1683, the plague disappeared from Germany until the epidemic of 1707.\n\nThe great plague of 1679 gave rise to the legend of \"Lieber Augustin\" (\"Dear Augustin\"). Augustin was a popular street musician, who, according to the legend, fell into a pit with bodies of plague victims, late at night when he was drunk. Augustin did not contract the disease, which may have been owed to the influence of the alcohol.\n\nAugustin is remembered in the popular folk song \"Oh du lieber Augustin\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "154189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154189", "title": "Great Train Robbery (1963)", "text": "Great Train Robbery (1963)\n\nThe Great Train Robbery was the robbery of £2.6 million from a Royal Mail train heading from Glasgow to London on the West Coast Main Line in the early hours of 8 August 1963, at Bridego Railway Bridge, Ledburn, near Mentmore in Buckinghamshire, England.\n\nAfter having tampered with the lineside signals in order to bring the train to a halt, a 15-strong gang of robbers led by Bruce Reynolds attacked the train. Other gang members included Gordon Goody, Buster Edwards, Charlie Wilson, Roy James, John Daly, Jimmy White, Ronnie Biggs, Tommy Wisbey, Jim Hussey, Bob Welch and Roger Cordrey, as well as three men known only as numbers \"1\", \"2\" and \"3\". A 16th man, an unnamed retired train driver, was also present at the time of the robbery.\n\nWith careful planning based on inside information from an individual known as \"The Ulsterman\" (named as Patrick McKenna in 2014), the robbers escaped with over £2.6 million (equivalent to £ today). The bulk of the stolen money was never recovered. Though the gang did not use any firearms, Jack Mills, the train driver, was beaten over the head with a metal bar. Mills' injuries were severe enough to end his career.\n\nAfter the robbery, the gang hid at Leatherslade Farm. After the police found this hideout, incriminating evidence led to the eventual arrest and conviction of most of the gang. The ringleaders were sentenced to 30 years in jail.\n\nThe plan to intercept and rob the overnight Glasgow-to-London mail train was based on information from Patrick McKenna, a postal worker from Salford who had detailed knowledge of the amounts of money carried on Royal Mail trains. McKenna was introduced to two of the criminals who would carry out the raid—Gordon Goody and Buster Edwards—by a London solicitor's clerk, Brian Field. McKenna's name was kept secret, and he was known to the robbers only as \"The Ulsterman\".\n\nThe raid was devised over a period of months by a core team: Goody and Edwards along with Bruce Reynolds, Charlie Wilson, and Roy James, with Reynolds assuming the role of \"mastermind\". This gang, although very successful in the criminal underworld, had virtually no experience in stopping and robbing trains. \n\nSo it was agreed to enlist the help of another London gang called The South Coast Raiders. This group included Tommy Wisbey, Bob Welch, and Jim Hussey, who were already accomplished train robbers. This group also included Roger Cordrey, a man who was a specialist in this field and knew how to rig the track-side signals to stop the train. \n\nOther associates (including Ronnie Biggs, a man Reynolds had previously met in jail) were added as the organisation evolved. The final gang who took part in the raid comprised a total of 16 men.\n\nAt 18:50 on Wednesday 7 August 1963, the travelling post office (TPO) \"Up Special\" train set off from Glasgow Central station \"en route\" to Euston Station in London. It was scheduled to arrive at Euston at 03:59 the following morning. The train was hauled by English Electric Type 4 (later Class 40) diesel-electric locomotive D326 (later 40 126). The train consisted of 12 carriages and carried 72 Post Office staff who sorted mail during the journey.\n\nMail was loaded onto the train at Glasgow and also during station stops \"en route\", and from line-side collection points where local post office staff would hang mail sacks on elevated track-side hooks that were caught by nets deployed by the on-board staff. Sorted mail on the train could be dropped off at the same time. This process of exchange allowed mail to be distributed locally without delaying the train with unnecessary stops. One of the carriages involved in the robbery is preserved at the Nene Valley Railway.\n\nThe second carriage behind the engine was known as the HVP (high value packages) coach, which carried large quantities of money and registered mail for sorting. Usually the value of the shipment was in the region of £300,000, but because the previous weekend had been a UK Bank Holiday weekend, the total on the day of the robbery was to be between £2.5 and £3 million.\n\nIn 1960, the Post Office Investigation Branch (IB) recommended the fitting of alarms to all Travelling Post Offices with HVP carriages. This recommendation was implemented in 1961, but HVP carriages without alarms were retained in reserve. By August 1963, three HVP carriages were equipped with alarms, bars over the windows and bolts and catches on the doors, but at the time of the robbery, these carriages were out of service, so a reserve carriage (M30204M) without those features had to be used. The fitting of radios was also considered, but they were deemed to be too expensive, and the measure was not implemented. This carriage was kept for evidence for seven years following the event and then burned at a scrapyard in Norfolk in the presence of police and post office officials to deter any souvenir hunters.\n\nJust after 03:00 on 8 August, the driver, 58-year old Jack Mills from Crewe, stopped the train on the West Coast Main Line at a red signal light at Sears Crossing, Ledburn, between Leighton Buzzard and Cheddington. The signal had been tampered with by the robbers: they had covered the green light and connected a six-volt Ever Ready battery to power the red light. The locomotive's second crew member, known as the secondman or \"fireman\", was 26-year-old David Whitby, also from Crewe. As a signal stop was unexpected at this time and place, Whitby climbed down from the cab to call the signalman from a line-side telephone, only to find the cables had been cut. As he made his return to the train, he was grabbed from behind and quickly overpowered by one of the robbers. Meanwhile, the driver was waiting in the cab for Whitby's return. Gang members then entered the cabin from both sides of the train, and as Mills grappled with one robber and attempted to force him off the footplate, he was struck from behind by another gang member with a cosh, rendering him semi-conscious.\n\nAt this stage, the robbers had foreseen that they would encounter a problem. They had to move the train from where it had been stopped to a suitable place to load their ex-army dropside truck with the stolen money. Bridge No.127 (Bridego Bridge, now known as Mentmore Bridge), approximately half a mile (800 m) further along the track was the chosen location.\n\nOne of the robbers (masquerading as a school teacher) had spent months befriending railway staff and familiarising himself with the layout and operation of trains and carriages. Ultimately though, it was decided that it would be better to use an experienced train driver to move the locomotive and the first two carriages from the signals to the bridge after uncoupling the carriages containing the rest of the sorters and the ordinary mail.\n\nOn the night, the gang's hired train driver (an acquaintance of Ronnie Biggs, later referred to as \"Stan Agate\" or \"Peter\") was unable to operate this newer type of locomotive; although having driven trains for many years (by then retired), he was experienced only on shunting (switching) locomotives on the Southern Region. With no other alternative available to them, it was quickly decided that Mills would have to move the train to the stopping point near the bridge, which was indicated by a white sheet stretched between poles on the track. Ronnie Biggs's only task was to supervise Stan Agate's participation in the robbery, and when it became obvious that Agate was not able to drive the train, he and Biggs were sent to the waiting truck to help load the mail bags.\n\nThe train was stopped at bilaspur station, and the robbers' \"assault force\" attacked the ‘high value packages’ (HVP) carriage. Frank Dewhurst was in charge of the three other postal workers (Leslie Penn, Joseph Ware and John O'Connor) in the HVP carriage. Thomas Kett, assistant inspector in charge of the train from Carlisle to Euston was also in the carriage. Dewhurst and Kett were hit with coshes when they made a vain attempt to prevent the robbers' storming of the carriage. Once the robbers had entered the carriage, the staff could put up no effective resistance and there was no police officer or security guard on board to assist them. The staff were made to lie face down on the floor in a corner of the carriage. Mills and Whitby were then brought into the carriage, handcuffed together and put down beside the staff.\n\nThe robbers removed all but eight of the 128 sacks from the HVP carriage, which they transferred in about 15–20 minutes to the waiting truck by forming a human chain. The gang departed some 30 minutes after the robbery had begun in their Austin Loadstar truck and, in an effort to mislead any potential witnesses, they used two Land Rover vehicles, both of which had the registration plates BMG 757A.\nThe gang then headed along minor roads listening for police broadcasts on a VHF radio, the journey taking somewhere between 45 minutes and an hour, and arrived back at Leatherslade Farm at around 04:30, at around the same time as the first reports of the crime were being made. Leatherslade was a run-down farm from the crime scene, between Oakley and Brill (). It had been bought two months earlier as their hideout.\n\nAt the farm they counted the proceeds and divided it into 16 full shares and several 'drinks' (smaller sums of money intended for associates of the gang). The precise amounts of the split differ according to the source, but the full shares came to approximately £150,000 each (about £2.65 million today).\n\nFrom listening to their police-tuned radio, the gang learned that the police had calculated they had gone to ground within a 30-mile radius of the crime scene rather than dispersing with their haul. This declaration was based on information given by a witness at the crime scene who stated that a gang member had told the post office workers \"not to move for half an hour\". The press interpreted this information as a radius—a half-hour drive in a fast car.\n\nThe gang realised the police were using a \"dragnet tactic\", and with help from the public, would probably discover the farm much sooner than had been originally anticipated. As a result, the plan for leaving the farm was brought forward to Friday from Sunday (the crime was committed on Thursday). The vehicles they had driven to the farm could no longer be used because they had been seen by the train staff. Brian Field came to the farm on Thursday to pick up his share of the loot and to take Roy James to London to find an extra vehicle. Bruce Reynolds and John Daly picked up cars, one for Jimmy White and the other for Reynolds, Daly, Biggs and the replacement train driver. Field, his wife Karin and his associate \"Mark\" brought the vans and drove the remainder of the gang to the Fields's home to recover.\n\nField had arranged with \"Mark\" to carry out a comprehensive clean-up and set fire to the farm after the robbers had left, even though the robbers had already spent much time wiping the place down to be free of prints. According to Buster Edwards, he 'nicked' £10,000 in ten-shilling notes to help pay \"Mark's\" drink. However, on Monday, when Charlie Wilson rang Brian Field to check whether the farm had been cleaned, he did not believe Field's assurances. He called a meeting with Edwards, Reynolds, Daly and James and they agreed that they needed to be sure. They called Field to a meeting on Tuesday, where he was forced to admit that he had failed to \"torch\" the farm. In the IVS 2012 documentary film \"The Great Train Robbery\", Nick Reynolds (son of Bruce Reynolds) said \"...the guy who was paid to basically go back to the farm and burn it down did a runner.\" Wilson would have killed Field there and then but was restrained by the others. By the time they were ready to go back to the farm, however, they learned that police had found the hide-out.\nThere is some uncertainty regarding the exact cash total stolen from the train. £2,631,684 is a figure quoted in the press, although the police investigation states the theft as £2,595,997 10s, in 636 packages, contained in 120 mailbags—the bulk of the haul in £1 and £5 notes (both the older white note and the newer blue note, which was half its size). There were also ten-shilling notes and Irish and Scottish money. Because a 30-minute time limit had been set by Reynolds, eight out of 128 bags were not stolen and were left behind. Statistically, this could have amounted to £131,000 or 4.7% of the total. It is alleged that the total weight of the bags removed was , according to former Buckinghamshire police officer John Woolley.\n\nFamously, the gang had used the money in a game of \"Monopoly\" while holed up at a farm house. Some of the items from that game, a Get Out of Jail Free card and another Community Chest card, a die, three metal playing tokens (a car, motorbike and, ironically a train) and two wooden hotels and five houses went up for sale at an auction in June 2015.\n\nThe robbers had cut all the telephone lines in the vicinity, but one of the rail-men left on the train at Sears Crossing caught a passing goods train to Cheddington, where he raised the alarm at around 04:20. The first reports of the robbery were broadcast on the VHF police radio within a few minutes and this is where the gang heard the line \"A robbery has been committed and you'll never believe it – they've stolen the train!\"\n\nThe gang consisted of 17 full members who were to receive an equal share, including the men who were at the robbery and two key informants.\n\nThe gang that carried out the robbery consisted of 15 criminals predominantly from south London: Gordon Goody, Charlie Wilson, Buster Edwards, Bruce Reynolds, Roy James, John Daly, Roger Cordrey, Jimmy White, Bob Welch, Tommy Wisbey, Jim Hussey, Ronnie Biggs, as well as Harry Smith and Danny Pembroke, who were never charged due to the lack of evidence against them, and one still unknown, plus the train driver they nicknamed \"Pop\". The best known member of the gang, Biggs, had only a minor role—to recruit the train driver. Following the death of Wisbey in December 2016, Bobby Welch is the last surviving member of the gang.\n\nBruce Richard Reynolds was born on 7 September 1931 at Charing Cross Hospital, Strand, London, to Thomas Richard and Dorothy Margaret (née Keen). His mother died in 1935, and he had trouble living with his father and stepmother, so he often stayed with one or other of his grandmothers. Reynolds was jailed for three years on several counts of breaking and entering, and upon his release quickly started re-offending. He soon joined a gang with best friend John Daly (future brother-in-law). They were mentored by South Western gang leaders Ernie Watts and Terry Hogan (AKA Harry Booth). Also he did some (criminal?) work with Jimmy White and met Buster Edwards at Charlie Richardson's club. Richardson in turn introduced him to Gordon Goody.\n\nAfter the train heist, Reynolds escaped to Mexico with his wife, Angela, and young son, Nick Reynolds (who later became a member of the band Alabama 3, whose song \"Woke Up This Morning\" was the opening theme of \"The Sopranos\") and lived lavishly with his share of the take, approximately 150,000 British pounds. When that money ran out, Reynolds moved his family to Canada and then France under false identities, in search of work, before returning to the United Kingdom to pursue opportunities promised by his old criminal contacts. He was arrested in 1968 in Torquay and sentenced to 25 years in jail. He was released a decade later.\n\nReynolds was reincarcerated in the mid-1980s for dealing amphetamines. He has produced occasional journalism pieces, been a consultant on movie and book projects about the train heist, and published a well-regarded crime memoir, \"Crossing the Line: The Autobiography of a Thief\" (1995).\n\nIn a 2003 interview, Reynolds recalled: \"from an early age I always wanted a life of adventure.\" He was rejected by the Royal Navy because of poor eyesight, and then tried to become a foreign correspondent, but his highest achievement in that vein was to become a clerk at the \"Daily Mail\". While his life in crime did provide excitement, Reynolds said in 2003, \"I've always felt that I can't escape my past. And in many ways I feel that it is like a line from the 'Ancient Mariner' and that the notoriety was like an albatross around my neck.\"\n\nReynolds died aged 81 on 28 February 2013 after a brief illness. He is survived by his son Nick.\n\nAuthorities regarded Douglas Gordon Goody as the mastermind of the operation. He first made contact with 'The Ulsterman' in a meeting set up by Brian Field in Finsbury Park. Of Northern Irish descent, Goody was born in Putney, London in March 1930 and was still living there in his mother's flat at the time of the robbery. In the early 1960s he joined Buster Edwards' gang and helped rob various easy targets.\n\nAfter his release from prison in 1975, Goody moved to the white-washed town of Mojácar in Almería, Spain, where he ran the Chiringuito Kon Tiki beachfront bar. In September 2014, Goody revealed the identity of 'The Ulsterman' as Patrick McKenna for the first time. Revealing of the name coincided with a documentary marking the 50th anniversary of the robbery. The documentary makers employed Ariel Bruce (a social worker who finds missing family members) to trace Patrick McKenna, who was found to have died some years previously. However Bruce was able to make contact with McKenna's family. This documentary was shown in cinemas and on demand in October 2014.\nOn 29 January 2016, Goody died of emphysema at the age of 85.\n\nThe most dangerous of the Great Train Robbers was 'the Silent Man' Charlie Wilson. He was born on 30 June 1932 to Bill and Mabel Wilson in Battersea. His friends from childhood were Jimmy Hussey, Tommy Wisbey, Bruce Reynolds and Gordon Goody. Later on, he met Ronald 'Buster' Edwards and the young driving enthusiasts Mickey Ball and Roy James, who had taken up car theft. From 1948 to 1950 he was called up for national service, and in 1955 he married Patricia (Pat) Osbourne, with whom he had three children. He turned to crime early in life and spurned his father's legitimate but low-income wage. While he did have legitimate work in his in-laws' grocer's shop, he also was a thief and his criminal proceeds went into buying shares in various gambling enterprises. He went to jail for short spells for numerous offences. In 1960, he began to work with Bruce Reynolds and planned to get into the criminal big league.\n\nRonald Christopher Edwards was born on 27 January 1932 at Lambeth, London, the son of a barman. After leaving school, he worked in a sausage factory, where he began his criminal career by stealing meat to sell on the post-war black market. During his national service in the RAF he was detained for stealing cigarettes. When he returned to South London, he ran a drinking club and became a professional criminal. He married June Rose in 1952. They had a daughter, Nicky. In his final years he ran a flower stall outside Waterloo station in London.\n\nBrian Arthur Field was born on 15 December 1934 and was immediately put up for adoption. He served two years in the Royal Army Service Corps, seeing service during the Korean War. Although soldiers in the Service Corps were considered combat personnel, they were primarily associated with transport and logistics. When he was discharged from the military, it was with \"a very good character\".\n\nField later became a solicitor's managing clerk for John Wheater & Co. Although he was only 28 at the time of the robbery, he was already apparently more prosperous than his boss, John Wheater. Field drove a new Jaguar and had a house, \"Kabri\" (an amalgam of Karin and Brian [Field]), with his wife at the Bridle Path, Whitchurch Hill, Oxfordshire, while his boss owned a battered Ford and lived in a run-down neighbourhood. Part of the reason for Field's prosperity was that he was not averse to giving Goody and Edwards information about what his clients had in their country houses, making them prime targets for the thieves. On one occasion he described the contents and layout of a house near Weybridge where wife Karin had once been a nanny.\n\nPrior to the robbery Field had represented Buster Edwards and Gordon Goody. He had arranged Edwards' defence when he had been caught with a stolen car and had met Goody at a nightclub in Soho. Field was called upon to assist in Goody's defence in the aftermath of the \"Airport Job\", which was a robbery carried out on 27 November 1962 at BOAC Comet House, Hatton Cross, London Airport. This was the big practice robbery that the South West Gang had done before the Great Train Robbery. Field was successful in arranging bail for Goody and Charlie Wilson.\n\nIn 2014, Douglas Gordon Goody revealed to journalists the name of \"The Ulsterman\" as Patrick McKenna, a 43-year-old postal worker living in Salford, Greater Manchester, at the time of the robbery. McKenna, who was from Belfast, met Goody four times in 1963. Goody alleges he only found out McKenna's name when he saw it written inside his spectacles case.\n\nIt is not known what became of the share McKenna received but his children were \"flabbergasted\" upon hearing of their father's involvement. It was surmised that McKenna either donated his share to the Catholic church over the years or had had the money stolen from him.\n\nWilliam Gerald Boal (22 October 1913 – 26 June 1970), an accomplice after the fact of Roger Cordrey, was wrongly convicted as being one of the robbers, despite playing a role no different from the many other accomplices of the various train robbers. Boal tragically died in jail.\n\nLeonard Denis Field (born 1931, date of death unknown), helped with the purchase of Leatherslade Farm (hideout), paying the deposit of £5,000 in return for a 'drink' of £12,000. Lennie was allowed to think that the plan was to hijack a lorry load of cigarettes. Despite not being in on the robbery, he was convicted and sentenced to 25 years (20 years for conspiracy to rob and 5 years for obstructing justice), which was later reduced to five. He was released from jail in 1967 and went to live in north London.\n\nJohn Denby Wheater (born 17 December 1921, died 18 July 1985), was the employer of Brian Field. He was convicted and sentenced to 3 years. He died in Harrowgate, near Leeds aged 63 years old.\n\nAt 5 am, Chief Superintendent Malcolm Fewtrell, head of the Buckinghamshire Police Criminal Investigation Department (CID), located at Aylesbury, arrived at the crime scene, where he supervised evidence-gathering. He then went to Cheddington railway station, where the train had been taken, and where statements were taken from the driver and postal workers. A member of the gang had told the postal staff not to move for half an hour and this suggested to the police that their hide-out could not be more than away. It appeared, from interviews with the witnesses, that about 15 hooded men dressed in blue boiler suits had been involved, but little more could be gleaned.\n\nBy lunchtime of the following day, it became obvious to Fewtrell that extra resources were needed to cope with the scale of the investigation and the Buckinghamshire Chief Constable referred the case to Scotland Yard. George Hatherill, Commander of the C Department and Detective Chief Superintendent Earnest (Ernie) Millen, Head of the Flying Squad were initially in charge of the London side of the investigation. They sent Detective Superintendent Gerald McArthur and Detective Sergeant John Pritchard to assist the Buckinghamshire Police.\n\nThe police then undertook a major search, fanning out from the crime scene after having failed to find any forensic evidence there. A watch was put on the seaports. The Postmaster General Reginald Bevins offered a £10,000 reward to \"the first person giving information leading to the apprehension and conviction of the persons responsible for the robbery\".\n\nFollowing a tip-off from a herdsman who used a field adjacent to Leatherslade Farm, a police sergeant and constable called there on 13 August 1963, five days after the robbery. The farm was deserted but they found the truck used by the robbers, which had been hastily painted yellow, as well as the Land Rovers. They also found a large quantity of food, bedding, sleeping bags, post-office sacks, registered mail packages, banknote wrappers and a Monopoly board game.\n\nIt was determined that although the farm had been cleaned for fingerprints, some finger and palm prints (presumably of the robbers) had been overlooked, including those on a ketchup bottle and on the Monopoly set (which had been used after the robbery for a game, but with real money).\n\nDespite the big breakthrough of the discovery of Leatherslade Farm, the investigation was not going well. The London side of the investigation then continued under Detective Chief Superintendent Tommy Butler, who replaced Ernest (Ernie) Millen as head of the Flying Squad shortly after Millen was promoted to Deputy Commander under George Hatherill. On Monday 12 August 1963, Butler was appointed to head the police investigation of the London connection and quickly formed a six-man Train Robbery Squad. With Leatherslade Farm finally found on 13 August 1963, the day after Tommy Butler was appointed to head the London investigation, the Train Robbery Squad descended on the farm.\n\nThe key breakthrough was when Detective Chief Superintendent Millen met a distinguished barrister in a smoking room of an exclusive West End club and stated that someone was willing to inform on the gang. The process of talking to the informer was handled by Hatherill and Millen themselves, and they never divulged the identity of the informer to the detectives in their command. The informant had just been jailed in a provincial jail before the train robbery, and was hoping to get parole and other favorable outcomes from talking. He clearly did not know all the names perfectly, and a second informant (a woman) was able to fill in the gaps. Millen stated in his book \"Specialist in Crime\", 'the break-through with the informer came at a moment when I and my colleagues at the Yard were in a state of frustration almost approaching despair'. This process saw them get 18 names to be passed on to detectives to match up with the list being prepared from fingerprints collected at Leatherslade.\n\nUnfortunately, the decision to publish photos of the wanted suspects had already been made by Hatherill and Millen, despite strong protests from Tommy Butler and Frank Williams. This resulted in most of the robbers going to ground.\n\nTommy Butler was a shrewd choice to take over the Flying Squad and in particular the Train Robbery Squad. He became arguably the most renowned head of the Flying Squad in its history. He was known variously as \"Mr Flying Squad\", as \"One-day Tommy\" for the speed with which he apprehended criminals and as the \"Grey Fox\" for his shrewdness. He was Scotland Yard's most formidable thief-taker and, as an unmarried man who still lived with his mother, he had a fanatical dedication to the job. Butler worked long hours and expected all members of the squad to do the same.\n\nThe squad later had to work out rotations whereby one member would go home to rest as otherwise they were getting only three hours of sleep per night and had no time to eat healthily or see their families. When the squad tried to get him to ease the working conditions, Butler was enraged and threatened to send them back to their normal duties. Butler was said to be very secretive, with Jack Slipper claiming in his book \"Slipper of the Yard\" (1981) that \"he wouldn't even tell his own left hand what the right one was doing\". This meant that Train Robbery Squad members were often dispatched on specific errands with no knowledge of how their tasks fitted into the overall investigation.\n\nThe six-man Train Robbery Squad consisted of Detective Inspector Frank Williams, Detective Sergeant Steve Moore, Detective Sergeant Jack Slipper, Detective Sergeant Jim Nevill, Detective Sergeant Lou Van Dyck and Detective Constable Tommy Thorburn. The senior officer, Frank Williams, was a quiet man. His speciality was dealing with informants and he had the best working knowledge of the south London criminal fraternity in the force. One of the squad, Jack Slipper, would later become head of the Flying Squad and would still be involved in the case many years later.\n\nThe Post Office Investigation Branch (IB) was tasked with immediately establishing the amount of money stolen, which they concluded totalled £2,595,997.10s.0d. They also sought to identify what money had been taken so that the relevant banks could be notified. Deficiencies in High Value Package carriage security were reported and secure carriages were immediately brought back into service. The installation of radios was recommended as a priority. The investigation was detailed in a report by Assistant Controller Richard Yates that was issued in May 1964.\n\nThe first gang member to be caught was Roger Cordrey. He was with his friend, William Boal who was helping him lie low in return for the payment of old debts. They were living in a rented, fully furnished flat above a florist's shop in Wimborne Road, Moordown, Bournemouth. The Bournemouth police were tipped off by police widow Ethel Clark when Boal and Cordrey paid rent for a garage (in Tweedale Road off Castle Lane West) three months in advance, all in used ten-shilling notes.\n\nWilliam Boal, who was not involved in the robbery, was sentenced to 24 years and died in prison in 1970. Police later acknowledged that he was the victim of a miscarriage of justice.\n\nOther arrests followed. Eight of the gang members and several associates were caught. The other arrests were made by Sgt. Stan Davis and Probationary Constable Gordon 'Charlie' Case.\n\nOn Friday 16 August 1963, two people who had decided to take a morning stroll in Dorking Woods discovered a briefcase, a holdall and a camel-skin bag, all containing money. They called police, who also discovered another briefcase full of money in the woods. In total, a sum of £100,900 was found. They also found a camel-skin bag with a receipt inside, from the Cafe Pension Restaurant, Sonnenbichel, Hindelang, Prov. Allgäu. It was made out in favour of a Herr and Frau Field. The Surrey police delivered the money and the receipt to Fewtrell and McArthur in Aylesbury, who knew by then that Brian Field was a clerk at James and Wheater who had acted in the purchase of Leatherslade Farm. They quickly confirmed through Interpol that Brian and Karin Field had stayed at the Pension Sonnebichel in February that year. In addition, they knew that Field had acted for Gordon Goody and other criminals.\n\nSeveral weeks later, the police went to \"Kabri\" to interview Field, who calmly (for someone whose relatives had dumped a large part at least of the loot) provided a cover story that implicated Lennie Field as the purchaser of the farm and his boss John Wheater as the conveyancer. He admitted to visiting the farm on one occasion with Lennie Field, but said he assumed it was an investment of his brother Alexander Field, whom Brian Field had unsuccessfully defended in a recent court case. Field, not knowing the police had found a receipt, readily confirmed that he and his wife had been to Germany on a holiday and gave them the details of the place at which they had stayed. On 15 September 1963 Brian Field was arrested and his boss John Wheater was arrested two days later. Lennie Field had already been arrested on 14 September.\n\nJack Slipper was involved in the capture of Roy James, Ronald Biggs, Jimmy Hussey and John Daly.\n\nThe trial of the robbers began at Aylesbury Assizes, Buckinghamshire, on 20 January 1964. Because it would be necessary to accommodate a large number of lawyers and journalists, the existing court was deemed too small and so the offices of Aylesbury Rural District Council were specially converted for the event. The defendants were brought to the court each day from Aylesbury Prison in a compartmentalised van, out of view of the large crowd of spectators. Mr Justice Edmund Davies presided over the trial, which lasted 51 days and included 613 exhibits and 240 witnesses. The jury retired to the Grange Youth Centre in Aylesbury to consider their verdict.\n\nOn 11 February 1964, there was a sensation when John Daly was found to have no case to answer. His counsel, Mr Raeburn QC, claimed that the evidence against his client was limited to his fingerprints being on the Monopoly set found at Leatherslade Farm and the fact that he went underground after the robbery. Raeburn went on to say that Daly had played the Monopoly game with his brother-in-law Bruce Reynolds earlier in 1963, and that he had gone underground only because he was associated with people publicly sought by the police. This was not proof of involvement in a conspiracy. The judge agreed, and the jury were directed to acquit him.\n\nDetective Inspector Frank Williams was shocked when this occurred because, owing to Tommy Butler's refusal to share information, he had no knowledge of the fact that Daly's prints were only on the Monopoly set. If Williams had known this, he could have asked Daly questions about the Monopoly set and robbed him of his very effective alibi. Daly was clever in avoiding having a photo taken when he was arrested until he could shave his beard. This meant that there was no photo to show the lengths he had gone to in order to change his appearance. No action was taken against Butler for his mistake in not ensuring the case against Daly was more thorough.\n\nOn 15 April 1964 the proceedings ended with the judge describing the robbery as \"a crime of sordid violence inspired by vast greed\" and passing sentences of 30 years' imprisonment on seven of the robbers.\n\nThe eleven men sentenced all felt aggrieved at the sentences handed down, particularly Bill Boal (who died in prison) and Lennie Field, who were later found not guilty of the charges against them. The other men (aside from Wheater) resented what they considered to be the excessive length of the sentences, which were longer than those given to many murderers or armed robbers at the time. At that period, there was no parole system in place and prisoners served the full term of the sentence. Train robbers who were sentenced later, and by different judges, received shorter terms.\n\nAt the time, the severity of the sentences caused some surprise. When mastermind Bruce Reynolds was arrested in 1968, he allegedly told arresting officer Tommy Butler that those sentences had had a detrimental effect. According to him, they had prompted criminals generally to take guns with them when they set out on robberies.\n\nOn 13 July 1964, the appeals by Lennie Field and Brian Field (no relation) against the charges of conspiracy to rob were allowed. This meant that their sentences were effectively reduced to five years only. On 14 July 1964, the appeals by Roger Cordrey and Bill Boal were allowed, with the convictions for conspiracy to rob quashed, leaving only the receiving charges. Justice Fenton Atkinson concluded that a miscarriage of justice would result if Boal's charges were upheld, given that his age, physique and temperament made him an unlikely train robber. Luckily for him, as the oldest robber, Cordrey was also deemed to be not guilty of the conspiracy because his prints had not been found at Leatherslade Farm.\n\nBrian Field was only reluctantly acquitted of the robbery. Justice Atkinson stated that he would not be surprised if Field were not only part of the conspiracy, but also one of the robbers. The charges against the other men were all upheld. In the end Lennie Field and Bill Boal got some measure of justice, but Boal died in prison in 1970 after a long illness.\n\nOn 12 August 1964, Wilson escaped from Winson Green Prison in Birmingham in under three minutes, the escape being considered unprecedented in that a three-man team had broken into the prison to extricate him. His escape team was never caught and the leader, nicknamed \"Frenchy\", had disappeared from the London criminal scene by the late 1960s. Two weeks after his escape Wilson was in Paris for plastic surgery. By November 1965, Wilson was in Mexico City visiting old friends Bruce Reynolds and Buster Edwards. Wilson's escape was yet another dramatic twist in the train robbery saga.\n\nEleven months after Wilson's escape, in July 1965, Biggs escaped from Wandsworth Prison, 15 months into his sentence. A furniture van was parked alongside the prison walls and a ladder was dropped over the 30-foot-high wall into the prison during outside exercise time, allowing four prisoners to escape, including Biggs. The escape was planned by recently released prisoner Paul Seaborne, with the assistance of two other ex-convicts, Ronnie Leslie and Ronnie Black, with support from Biggs' wife, Charmian. The plot saw two other prisoners interfere with the warders, and allow Biggs and friend Eric Flower to escape. Seaborne was later caught by Butler and sentenced to four-and-a-half years; Ronnie Leslie received three years for being the getaway driver. The two other prisoners who took advantage of the Biggs escape were captured after three months. Biggs and Flower paid a significant sum of money to be smuggled to Paris for plastic surgery. Biggs said he had to escape because of the length of the sentence and what he alleged to be the severity of the prison conditions.\n\nWilson and Biggs' escape meant that five of the known robbers were now on the run, with Tommy Butler in hot pursuit.\n\nJimmy White – With the other robbers on the run and having fled the country, only White was at large in the United Kingdom. White was a renowned locksmith/thief and had already been on the run for ten years before the robbery. He was said to have \"a remarkable ability to be invisible, to merge with his surroundings and become the ultimate Mr Nobody.\" He was a wartime paratrooper and a veteran of Arnhem. According to Piers Paul Read in his 1978 book \"The Train Robbers\", he was \"a solitary thief, not known to work with either firm, he should have had a good chance of remaining undetected altogether, yet was known to be one of the Train Robbers almost at once—first by other criminals and then by the police\". He was unfortunate in that Brian Field's relatives had dumped luggage containing £100,000 only a mile from a site where White had bought a caravan and hidden £30,000 in the panelling. In addition, a group of men purporting to be from the Flying Squad broke into his flat and took a briefcase containing £8,500. Throughout his three years on the run with wife Sheree and baby son Stephen, he was taken advantage of or let down by friends and associates. On 10 April 1966 a new friend recognised him from photos in a newspaper and informed police. They arrested him at Littlestone while he was at home. He only had £8,000 to hand back to them. The rest was long gone. He was tried in June 1966 at Leicester Assizes and Mr Justice Nield sentenced him to 18 years' jail, considerably less than the 30 years given to other principal offenders.\n\nBuster Edwards – Edwards fled to Mexico with his family, to join Bruce Reynolds (and later Charlie Wilson) but returned voluntarily to England in 1966, where he was sentenced to 15 years.\n\nCharlie Wilson – Wilson took up residence outside Montreal, Quebec, Canada, on Rigaud Mountain in an upper-middle-class neighbourhood where the large, secluded properties are surrounded by trees. He lived under the name Ronald Alloway, a name borrowed from a Fulham shopkeeper. His wife and three children soon joined him. He joined an exclusive golf club and participated in the activities of the local community. It was only when he invited his brother-in-law over from the UK for Christmas that Scotland Yard was able to track him down and recapture him. They waited three months before making their move, in the hope that Wilson would lead them to Reynolds, the last suspect still to be apprehended. Wilson was arrested on 25 January 1968 by Tommy Butler. Many in Rigaud petitioned that his wife and three daughters be allowed to stay in the Montreal area.\n\nBruce Reynolds – On 6 June 1964, Reynolds arrived in Mexico, with his wife Angela and son Nick joining him a few months later, after they evaded the obvious police surveillance. A year later in July 1965, Buster Edwards and his family arrived, although unlike the Reynolds they planned to return to England at some stage, and did not like Mexico. Charlie Wilson, on the run with his family still back in England visited them for 6 weeks, so three of the train robbers were together in exile for a time. After the Edwards family returned to England, the Reynolds also decided to leave Mexico and go to Canada to potentially join up with the Wilson family, leaving on 6 December 1966. They had spent much of their share of the robbery by this point – living far more extravagantly than the Edwards had. After realizing the danger in settling near the Wilsons in Montreal, they went to live in Vancouver, and then went to Nice, France. Reynolds did not want to go to Australia where Biggs was, and needing money decided to go back to England, settling briefly in Torquay before being captured by Tommy Butler.\n\nRonnie Biggs – Biggs fled to Paris, where he acquired new identity papers and underwent plastic surgery. In 1970, he moved to Adelaide, Australia, where he worked as a builder—he and his wife had a third son. Tipped off that Interpol was showing interest, he moved to Melbourne working as a set-constructor for Channel 9, later escaping to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, after police had discovered his Melbourne address. Biggs could not be extradited because there was no extradition treaty between Britain and Brazil, and additionally he became father to a Brazilian son, which afforded him legal immunity. As a result, he lived openly in Rio for many years, safe from the British authorities. In 1981, Biggs' Brazilian son became a member of a successful band Turma do Balão Mágico, but the band quickly faded into obscurity and dissolved.\n\nIn May 2001, aged 71 and having suffered three strokes, Biggs voluntarily returned to England. Accepting that he could be arrested, his stated desire was to \"walk into a Margate pub as an Englishman and buy a pint of bitter\". Arrested on landing, after detention and a short court hearing he was sent back to prison to serve the remainder of his sentence. On 2 July 2009, Biggs was denied parole by Justice Secretary Jack Straw, who considered Biggs to be still \"wholly unrepentant.\"\n\nFollowing the deaths of Goody on 29 January 2016, and Tommy Wisbey on December 30, 2016, Bob Welch is the only remaining member of the gang known to still be alive. In later years, the robbers generally came together only for the funerals of their fellow gang members. Wilson's funeral on 10 May 1990 was attended by Bruce Reynolds, who reported seeing Edwards, Roy James (who got into a verbal argument with the press), Welch (hobbling on crutches) and White (who went unnoticed most due to his ability to blend into the background). At Edwards' funeral in 1994, Reynolds saw only Welch. (Hussey, Wisbey and James were all in prison at the time.)\n\nAt Reynolds' own funeral, only Welch and Biggs attended, both in wheelchairs. A statement was read on behalf of Gordon Goody.\n\nBrian Field\n\nAfter being sentenced on 16 April 1964, Field served four years of his five-year sentence. He was released in 1967. While he was in prison, his wife Karin divorced him and married a German journalist. Karin wrote an article for the German magazine \"Stern\". She confirmed that she took Roy James to Thame railway station so he could go to London and that she led a convoy of two vans back to \"Kabri\", where the gang were joined by wives and girlfriends for a big party to celebrate the crime. When Reynolds returned to Great Britain in 1968, he tried to contact Field as this was the only way he could get in touch with the \"Ulsterman\". It seems that Field was ambushed upon his release from prison by a recently released convict, \"Scotch Jack\" Buggy, who presumably roughed up or even tortured Field with a view to extorting some of the loot from the robbery. Subsequently, Field went to ground and Buggy was killed shortly after. Reynolds gave up trying to find Field.\n\nField changed his name to Brian Carlton to disappear. Sometime after his release from prison he married Sian, from Wales. In the mid/late 1970s they worked for the Children's Book Centre (since sold) in Kensington High Street in London. Field and his wife Sian were responsible for the company's operations in central and southern Europe, to where they shipped English language books and held book fairs at international English schools. Field, aged 44, and Sian, aged 28, died in a car crash on the M4 motorway on 27 April 1979, a year after the last of the robbers had completed their sentences. The accident occurred as they returned from a visit to Sian's parents in Wales. A Mercedes driven by the pregnant 28-year-old daughter of well-known hairdresser Raymond Bessone (Mr Teasy Weasy) crossed a damaged section of the guard rail and slammed into Field's oncoming Porsche. The Fields, Teasy Weasy's daughter, her husband and two children were killed instantly. It was several weeks after the accident that Field's true identity was discovered. It is not clear whether his wife Sian ever knew of his past.\n\nCharlie Wilson\n\nThe last of the robbers released, (after serving about one-third of his sentence) Wilson returned to the life of crime and was found shot dead at his villa in Marbella, Spain, on 24 April 1990. His murder was thought to be related to suspected cheating in drug-dealing activity. He is buried in Streatham Cemetery.\n\nBuster Edwards\nAfter he was released, he became a flower seller outside Waterloo station. His story was dramatised in the 1988 film \"Buster\", with Phil Collins in the title role. Edwards died in a garage in November 1994, allegedly committing suicide by hanging himself. His family continued to run the flower stall after his death.\n\nRoy James \nJames went back to motor racing following his release on 15 August 1975. However, he crashed several cars, his chances of becoming a driver quickly faded. After the failure of his sporting career, he returned to his trade as a silversmith. He produced the trophy given to Formula One promoters each year thanks to his acquaintance with Bernie Ecclestone. In 1982, he married a younger woman, but the marriage soon broke down. By 1983, James and Charlie Wilson had become involved in an attempt to import gold without paying excise duty. James was acquitted in January 1984 for his part in the swindle. In 1993, he shot and wounded his father in-law, pistol-whipped and partially strangled his ex-wife, after they had returned their children for a day's outing. He was sentenced to six years in jail. In 1996, James underwent triple-bypass surgery and was subsequently released from prison in 1997, only to die almost immediately afterwards on 21 August after another heart attack. He was the fifth member of the gang to die, despite being the youngest.\n\nRoger Cordrey \nCordrey was the first of the robbers released, but his share of the theft had almost entirely been recovered by the police. He went back to being a florist at his sister's business upon his release. He is now dead, and his son Tony has publicly acknowledged his dad confirmed that Bill Boal was innocent of any involvement in the robbery.\n\nBruce Reynolds\nBruce Reynolds, the last of the robbers to be caught, was released from prison on 6 June 1978 after serving 10 years. Reynolds, then aged 47, was helped by Gordon Goody to get back on his feet, before Goody departed for Spain. By October 1978, day-release ended and he had to report to a parole officer. Frank Monroe, one of the three robbers who was never caught, temporarily gave Reynolds a job, but did not want to attract undue attention by employing him for too long. Reynolds later got back together with his wife Angela and son Nicholas. He was arrested in 1983 for drug-related offences (Reynolds denied having any involvement). He was released again in March 1985 and dedicated himself to helping his wife recover from a mental breakdown. In 2001, he and his son Nicholas travelled with reporters from \"The Sun\" newspaper to take Biggs back to Britain. In 2010, he wrote the afterword for \"Signal Red\", Robert Ryan's novel based on the robbery, and he regularly commented on the robbery. He died in his sleep, aged 81, on 28 February 2013.\n\nJohn Daly\nUpon his acquittal and release, and after finding his share of the loot stolen and/or destroyed, Daly gave up his life of crime and went \"straight\". He and his wife Barbara and their three children moved to Cornwall, where he worked as a street sweeper until the age of 70, known to the locals as Gentleman John or John the Gent. Daly told no one about the robbery as he was told he could face a retrial. He died 6 weeks after his brother in law Reynolds.\n\nRonnie Biggs\n\nOn 6 August 2009, Biggs was granted release from prison on \"compassionate grounds\", due to a severe case of pneumonia and other ongoing health problems. In 2011 he updated his autobiography, \"Odd Man Out: The Last Straw\". Having suffered a series of strokes after his release, and unable to speak for the previous three years, Biggs died at the Carlton Court Care home, London on 18 December 2013.\n\nTommy Wisbey and Big Jim Hussey\nTommy Wisbey was luckier than most of the others, in that his loot had been entrusted to his brothers, and when he emerged, he had a house in South London and a few other investments to keep him going. Unfortunately, during his prison stint, his daughter Lorraine had died in a car accident. He took a while to learn how to live harmoniously with his wife Rene (his daughter Marilyn having moved out upon his return). Shortly after his release, Wisbey was imprisoned on remand over a swindle involving travellers' cheques. The judge acknowledged the minor nature of his role.\n\nJim Hussey was released on 17 November 1975 and married girlfriend Gill (whom he had met just before the robbery). Hussey's share of the loot had been entrusted to a friend of \"Frank Monroe\" who squandered it despite \"Monroe\" periodically checking on its keeper. \nWisbey and James Hussey fell back into crime and were jailed in 1989 for cocaine dealing, with Wisbey sentenced to ten years and Hussey to seven years. In her book \"Gangster's Moll\", Marilyn Wisbey recounts that on 8 June 1988, after returning home from a visit to an abortion clinic and lying down for a nap they were raided by the Drugs Squad. Her parents were staying with her and her son Jonathan while their tenants moved out of their house (they had been away on a long trip to the USA). The raid uncovered 1 kg of cocaine and Rene and Marilyn Wisbey were arrested along with Jimmy Hussey, who had been spotted accepting a package from Wisbey in a park. Wisbey himself was captured a year later in Wilmslow, Cheshire. He was allegedly staying with another woman, to the shock of his wife and daughter. In return for Hussey and Wisbey pleading guilty, the two women were unconditionally freed. Upon their release from prison, both men retired from work.\n\nWisbey later explained: \"We were against drugs all our lives, but as the years went on, towards the end of the '70s, it became more and more the 'in' thing. Being involved in the Great Train Robbery, our name was good. They knew we had never grassed anyone, we had done our time without putting anyone else in the frame\". On 26 July 1989, the two men pleaded guilty and admitted at Snaresbrook Crown Court, London that they were a part of a £500,000 cocaine trafficking ring. Wisbey's grandson has also had trouble with the law in Cyprus.\n\nBob Welch\nBob Welch (born March 1929) was released on 14 June 1976. He was the last of those convicted in Aylesbury to be released. Welch moved back in with his wife June and his son. He threatened the man left in charge of his share of the theft to retrieve the remainder. A leg injury sustained in prison forced him to undergo several operations, which left him semi-crippled.\n\nDouglas (Gordon) Goody\nHe was released from prison on 23 December 1975, aged 46 years old and went to live with his ill mother in her small cottage in Putney. Unlike the other robbers, he was exceptionally lucky in that the man he left in charge of his affairs was loyal and successful so he was able to live a relatively well-off life. In his final years of incarceration Goody had taken full benefit of the newly established education college at Wormwood Scrubbs and studied Spanish to GCE standard.\n\nHe later moved to Mojacar, southern Spain, where he bought property and a bar and settled down, believing it safer to be out of the United Kingdom. He was at one point accused of cannabis smuggling but ultimately cleared. He continued to reside in Mojacar until his death following an illness on 29 January 2016.\n\nWhile there has been a lot of mystery surrounding several of the gang who were not imprisoned, in reality the police knew almost the entire gang almost instantly. By 29 August 1963 Commander Hatherill had 14 names already, and told police that Brian Field had tried to enlist another gang to rob the train, who turned him down. Hatherill's list was unerringly accurate—all the major gang members who were later jailed were identified, except Ronnie Biggs. With the exception of the minor accomplices Lennie Field, Bill Boal and the train driver, the list was complete, although of course the Ulsterman was not identified. In terms of the ones who got away, there were four others identified—Henry Smith, Dennis Pembroke, a fair haired man (25 years old—well spoken, not named) and a Nondescript man (not named but may be Jimmy Collins).\n\nBoth Piers Paul Read, and later Bruce Reynolds refer to three robbers who got away as Bill Jennings, Alf Thomas and Frank Monroe.\n\nBill 'Flossy' Jennings AKA Mr One\n\nPiers Paul Read refers to this man as Bill Jennings in \"The Train Robbers\", while Bruce Reynolds adds a nickname—\"Flossy\". Ronnie Biggs refers to him as Mr One, as do other accounts. According to Bruce Reynolds, 'Flossy had no previous convictions and stayed well out of contact with the group. A shadowy figure, nobody knew exactly where he lived—or even what his real name was. All we knew that he was one hundred per cent, and was sure to last out the hullabaloo. The last report of him said that he was in a safe house, banged up with two gorgeous girls and enough champagne to sink a battleship'\n\nIt is clear that while Reynolds claims to not have known his real name, that 'Flossy' was not just a participant in the Great Train Robbery, he was a core part of the gang who participated in the London Airport robbery. This robbery was the audacious raid that Gordon Goody and Charlie Wilson were acquitted of. That raid consisted of Roy James and Mickey Ball as the getaway drivers, with six robbers—Bruce Reynolds, Buster Edwards, Gordon Goody, Charlie Wilson, Flossy (and a sixth man who did not participate in the train robbery). In the end the only one caught after the airport raid was Mickey Ball, who pleaded guilty to being a getaway driver when a witness mistook him for Flossy, and to avoid being blamed for the actual violence he agreed to plead guilty as an accomplice, and was in prison during the Great Train Robbery.\n\nIt is alleged that Henry Thomas 'Harry' Smith (Born 20 October 1930) was Flossy and unlike most other robbers, actually got to spend his share of the loot, buying 28 houses and also a hotel and drinking club in Portsmouth. Smith died in 2008. Smith was the only man not ultimately arrested that was on both the Hatherill list, and Tommy Butler's list.\n\nAlf Thomas\n\nAlf Thomas is alleged to have been a South Coast Raider, but is said by Piers Paul Read to have been introduced by Jimmy White, which may have been true or a diversion by the robbers that told Read their story. The man is sometimes referred to as Mr Two or Mr Three, depending on the account. Ronnie Biggs refers to him as Mr Three and notes several times that he is the biggest of the gang, and the one who stormed the cab to subdue the driver.\n\nIt is alleged that the man referred to as Alf Thomas is Dennis (Danny) Pembroke. Following the robbery, Pembroke is said to have turned his back on crime and lived quietly in Kent, working as a cab driver. He died aged 79 from a heart attack, at home and in his sleep on 28 February 2015. Pembroke had five children, and his son Danny Jnr, said his father had never spoken about the Great Train Robbery. Certainly he showed no signs of increased wealth afterwards, but as he allegedly gave up £47,245 of the money as part of a deal with Frank Williams, 1/3 of his share was already lost.\n\nOn 6 September 1963, Flying Squad officers DCI Williams and Det Sgt Jack Slipper search Pembroke's house, but nothing incriminating was found and he was extensively interrogated and his prints taken. Samples of his pubic hair were taken to compare with those found in sleeping bags at Leatherslade Farm, but there was no match. The Flying Squad could therefore never prove that Danny Pembroke was one of the robbers as no forensic evidence linked him to the crime scene or the farm. After release, he went to the Devon village of Beaford with Welch and three others where locals became suspicious at the number of £5 notes they were spending.\n\nFrank Monroe\n\nAccording to Bruce Reynolds, Monroe, who was never caught, worked as a film stunt man for a while before starting a paper and scrap metal recycling business.\n\nThe Replacement Train Driver AKA Pops/Dad AKA Peter AKA Stan Agate\n\nThe replacement train driver was never caught, and never suspected of even existing by police, due to the fact that Jack Mills in the end had to drive the train. He also never profited from the crime—Ronnie Biggs never paid him his £20,000 \"drink\". The driver, of course, was not a member of the gang (as defined by receiving an equal share), just an accomplice.\n\nPiers Paul Read called the replacement train driver 'Stan Agate', and Stan was apparently the true nickname of the replacement driver. Read, concerned that the robbers may have hurt him, went to see Ronnie Biggs in Brazil to get his details, although was dismayed to find that Biggs did not know his last name and knew and cared very little about him. With the meagre details provided, Read used a detective agency to track down the driver at a town 20 miles south of London, and found that he was still alive, although somewhat senile and being cared for by his wife. The wife admitted that she had burnt all the clothes that he had worn that night, and had nervously waited for either the gang to murder him or the police to arrest him. Read promised not to reveal their identities. Unlike the other three members of the gang who got away, Peta Fordham does make mention of the replacement driver, but notes that he is said now to be dead, perhaps the robbers who provided material for the book did not want the police looking for him, as at the time of publishing (1965) Reynolds, White and Edwards were still on the run.\n\nRonnie Biggs, in his 1994 autobiography, \"Odd Man Out\", said that Bruce Reynolds offered him a chance to join the gang, if he could find a train driver. Biggs was renewing the front windows of a train driver's house in Redhill, who he calls 'Peter' (and who he believes to be dead by 1994). Ronnie offers him a £40,000 share of the profits, and tells Reynolds and gives his address John Daly who then proceeds to check him out. It seems that while he was an older man, he still had to apply for two weeks leave of absence from his job. According to Biggs, 'Peter' was paid his £40,000 'drink', although other accounts claim otherwise. Biggs states that Mary Manson drove 'Peter' and John Daly home, while Reynolds drove Biggs home.\n\nIt is alleged in \"The Sun\" that the replacement train driver was Peter Stevens.\n\nJohn Wheater was released from prison on 11 February 1966 and managed his family's laundry business in Harrogate. He later wrote two articles in the \"Sunday Telegraph\", who published the first one on 6 March 1966. He died in July 1985.\n\nLenny Field was released in 1967 and went to live in North London. He disappeared from the public eye.\n\nMary Manson, an associate of Bruce Reynolds and John Daly, was charged with receiving £820 from the robbery; she was held for six weeks but was released. Mary took care of wives and children of some of the robbers while they were on the run or in jail.\n\nMills had constant trauma headaches for the rest of his life. He died in 1970 from leukaemia. Mills' assailant was one of three members of the gang, who was never identified by the others. However, in November 2012, Hussey made a death-bed confession that it was he, although there were suspicions that this was repayment of a debt, to divert attention from the real perpetrator.\n\nFrank Williams (at the time a Detective Inspector) claims that at least three men who were directly involved are still at liberty and enjoying their full share of the money stolen and the profits from the way they invested it. One of them is the man responsible for the attack on the train driver. The train driver's assailant is not some phantom figure lurking in the criminal underworld. Williams traced him, identified him and took him to Scotland Yard where, with Tommy Butler, Williams questioned him. He could not be charged because of lack of evidence; there were no fingerprints or identifiable marks anywhere. None of those arrested informed on him although he had completely disobeyed instructions and used violence during the robbery.\n\nDavid Whitby (24 January 1937 - 6 January 1972) was also from Crewe. He was traumatised by his track-side assault and subsequent rough treatment and never recovered from his ordeal. He was 25 years old at the time of the robbery. He was able to resume his career as a secondman, but died from a heart attack on 6 January 1972 at the age of 34 in Crewe, Cheshire.\n\nEngineer William Gerald \"Bill\" Boal (22 October 1913 – 26 June 1970), an accomplice after the fact of Roger Cordrey. He was considered so at the time because he knew Cordery and moreover, was found in Cordery's car where a large stash of the stolen money was hidden. He died in jail of cancer. His family are now trying to have his name cleared, as they believe, based on evidence not used in the original trial that Boal was at best an accomplice after the fact with no knowledge of the robbery, and that Cordrey likely told him nothing about where he obtained the cash. Further, both Ronnie Biggs and Gordon Goody, two surviving gang members at the time, gave sworn affidavits asserting that Boal was innocent. Both gang members stated that they believed Boal was \"stitched up\" by the police.\n\nThe audacity and scale of the robbery was yet another controversy with which the Conservative government of Harold Macmillan had to cope. Macmillan resigned in October 1963, claiming poor health—he had been diagnosed with prostate cancer and believed he did not have long to live, but the diagnosis turned out to be incorrect. He did not contest his seat at the next election in September 1964, which the Labour Party won under Harold Wilson.\n\nAfter his success in securing White and Edwards, Tommy Butler got the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Joseph Simpson, to suspend his retirement on his 55th birthday so he could continue to hunt the robbers. This paid off with the arrests of first Wilson, then Reynolds. When asked by a reporter after the sentencing of Reynolds whether that was the end of it, Butler replied that it was not over until Biggs was caught. In 1969 he was finally forced to accept compulsory retirement, and later died in 1970, aged 57 years. That same day, Biggs' memoirs were published in \"The Sun\" newspaper.\n\nButler's deputy, Frank Williams, was passed over to be his replacement as head of the Flying Squad because of his deal with Edwards (which he thought would seal his promotion) and his deal with another of the robbers who was never caught. Following this, he left the force to become head of security for Qantas. He wrote his autobiography \"No Fixed Address\", which was published in 1973.\n\nJack Slipper of the Metropolitan Police was promoted to Detective Chief Superintendent. He became so involved in the case that he continued to hunt many of the escaped robbers after he retired. He believed Biggs should not be released after returning to the UK in 2001 and he often appeared in the media to comment on any news item connected with the robbery before his death on 24 August 2005 at the age of 81.\n\nDetective Chief Superintendent Ernest Malcolm Fewtrell, Head of the Buckinghamshire Crime Investigation Department (CID) was born on 29 September 1909 and died on 28 November 2005, aged 96 years. He retired on the last day of the trial after the verdicts were handed down (at the then compulsory retirement age of 55). This allowed him (with Ronald Payne of \"The Sunday Telegraph\", who was involved in the paper's coverage of the case) to be the first of the investigators to write a book \"The Train Robbers\" on the robbery investigation in 1964. In the book he expressed some frustration with the Flying Squad although he mostly had praise for individual officers. His one regret was that he had the search for the hideout carried out radiating outwards from the scene of the robbery rather than an inwards search from a perimeter. He worked as an Accommodation Officer for Portsmouth Polytechnic before retiring to live by the sea near Swanage. He continued to express disgust at any film that he felt glamourised the robbers. It has been said that he bore a striking resemblance to John Thaw, who was the star of \"Inspector Morse\", which, perhaps coincidentally, was a television series about a detective in the Thames Valley Police Force (the modern-day successor to Buckinghamshire Constabulary). Fewtrell was assisted and later succeeded in the investigation by John Woolley, who served in the Buckinghamshire Constabulary from 1959 to 1984.\n\nGeorge Hatherill (1898–1986) had his service extended by one year because of the need to complete the investigation of the Great Train Robbery. He visited Canada and the USA as a lecturer on police matters. He died on 17 June 1986 at the age of 87.\n\nGerald MacArthur died aged 70 years on 21 July 1996. He was famous for breaking up the Richardson Gang at a time when a significant number of London-based detectives were known to be corrupt.\n\nOne of the Post Office carriages that was part of the remaining train (not involved in the actual robbery) is preserved at the Nene Valley Railway at Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, and is being restored. The actual carriage that was robbed [M30204M] was retained for 7 years following the robbery, and then taken to Norfolk and burned in the presence of Police and Post Office representatives at a scrapyard near Norwich in 1970. This was to deter collector/souvenir hunters. Locomotive English Electric Type 4 – D326 (later 40126) was involved in a number of serious operating incidents. The locomotive was scrapped at Doncaster Railway workshops in 1984. The retrieved Monopoly board used by the robbers at their Leatherslade Farm hideout and a genuine £5 note from the robbery is on display at the Thames Valley Police museum in Sulhamstead, Berkshire.\n\nThe scene of the crime was for some years called \"Train Robbers' bridge\" on a Network Rail maintenance sign. This led to an outcry advocating restoration of the original name of Bridego Bridge, but in late 2013 it was renamed again, as Mentmore Bridge. This renaming has yet to occur as the Network Rail signage still says Train Robbers Bridge. A diorama of the scene has been built by a local club and is currently on display near Aberdeen, at the Grampian Transport Museum for the summer of 2014.\n\n£2,631,684 was stolen (although the police report says that £2,595,997 was stolen). The bulk of the haul was in £1 notes and £5 notes (both the older white note and the newer blue note which was half its size). The £5 notes were bundled in batches of £2,500, the £1 notes in batches of £500. There were also ten-shilling notes in batches of £250. A quantity of Irish and Scottish money was also stolen.\nWith the exception of a few 'drinks' for associates, the loot was split into 17 equal shares of around £150,000 each (George Hatherill claims that there were 18 shares).\n\nWith a few notable exceptions, the money was quickly laundered or divided by friends, family and associates of the robbers. Much was laundered through bookmakers (Wilson and Wisbey were themselves bookmakers) although, astonishingly, only a few hundred pounds were identifiable by serial number so the robbers could have spent the money without fear of being traced. There were 1,579 notes whose serial numbers were known and the rest of the money was completely untraceable.\n\nThe £5 notes were of two different types, because in 1957 the British Government had begun to replace the large white notes with smaller blue ones. The final changeover had not been completed by the time of the robbery. The white notes quickly became far more conspicuous to use, making it harder for them to be spent.\n\nAlthough within six months of the robbery ten of the robbers had been locked up awaiting trial and three others were wanted criminals on the run, very little of the money had actually been recovered. This has caused speculation that there is a great deal of robbery loot still out there. In fact, the money was soon seized and spent by predatory gangsters and greedy associates, relatives and lawyers. So the proceeds of the greatest cash robbery in British history were quickly used up, with few of the robbers receiving any real long-term benefit.\n\nLess than £400,000 was eventually recovered. Over half of this consisted of the shares of Roger Cordrey (£141,017) and (allegedly) Brian Field (£100,900). A further £36,000 was recovered from Jimmy White's caravan. Roy James was carrying £12,041 when captured. The final sum recovered was £47,245 that was found in a telephone box in Great Dover Street, Newington, South London.\n\nThe £47,245 recovered from a telephone box included 57 notes whose serial numbers had been recorded by the bank in Scotland. This money was allegedly part of a deal struck with Frank Williams by \"Alf Thomas\". Piers Paul Read, in \"The Train Robbers\", claimed that the police were feeling the pressure because although they had caught many of the robbers, they had failed to recover much of the money. While no evidence had been found against \"Thomas\", who only had a reputation as a minor thief, some of the identifiable bank notes had been traced back to him through friends who had been charged with receiving. Given that the police had no evidence against \"Thomas\", either at Leatherslade Farm or connection with either of the two gangs, Butler was prepared to let him go. Williams convinced Butler to pull \"Thomas\" in for questioning and in return for releasing him and not charging his friends with more serious crimes, £50,000 was to be returned.\n\nOn 3 December 1963, which happened to be the same day that Roy James was taken into custody, the police received an anonymous tip directing them to the money in the phone box. The money was driven up to Aylesbury and taken into custody by Detective Superintendent Fewtrell, who wondered how his London colleagues could know how much money there was. He had to bring in bank clerks to count the damp and musty money to determine the final sum.\n\nWilliams made no admission to the recovery of the money being the result of a deal with \"Thomas\". Despite claiming that his negotiations were responsible for the return of this money, Williams in his book \"No Fixed Address\" (1973) claimed not to know the identity of the person who had returned the money, although he did mention several robbers to whom he had offered deals through intermediaries. He noted that it seemed to him that Butler was sceptical of his efforts and that at the press conference Hatherill and Millen did not reveal the circumstances behind the find and that he was never asked to talk with them about it. Despite \"Alf Thomas\" being the man identified as the assailant of the train driver, Jack Mills, by Bruce Reynolds (albeit indirectly), Williams only makes mention of the assailant once in his book. In this section (often quoted by other sources), he confirms that, with Tommy Butler, he questioned the man they knew to be the assailant but that they had no evidence to convict him. Strangely, however, he makes no further mention of him.\n\nThis lends credence to the claim that a deal was done with \"Alf Thomas\" which later caused outrage in the police hierarchy. It is hinted in several books that the deals done by Williams were responsible for his being overlooked for promotion and that Williams was unhappy that his efforts were not recognised by Butler, but were instead hidden from superiors.\n\nFor his part, George Hatherill, in his book \"A Detective's Tale\", stated that the motive behind the return of the money was not known for certain. He said that the money was returned by \"one about whom extensive inquiries had been made and who in fact was interrogated at length. But in spite of our strong suspicions, nothing could be proved against him and so no charge could be brought. My belief is that he thought we knew more about him than we did, and thinking things were getting hot, he decided to get rid of the money to avoid being found in possession with it\". Hatherill does not mention Williams at all in his book. He retired on the last day of the trial at Aylesbury.\n\nThe ten gang members who were arrested shortly after the robbery had to spend a large amount on legal fees (approximately £30,000 each).\n\nThe robbers who spent much time on the run overseas—Reynolds, Wilson and Edwards—had very little left when finally arrested, having had to spend money avoiding capture and indulging in lavish lifestyles without finding employment. Much of Jimmy White's money was taken from him.\n\nAccording to Marilyn Wisbey, her father's share was hidden by his father Tommy Wisbey Senior in the panels in the doors of his home. Butler raided them three times but he never found the train money. The majority of the money was reputedly entrusted to Wisbey's father and also to his younger brother Ron, who coincidentally had saved some money of his own that was confiscated by the police. (It was returned to Ron three months later). By the time Wisbey was released from jail all of his share had either been spent or invested. Marilyn agrees with Piers Paul Read's assessment of how her father's share of approximately £150,000 was spent. Although the Wisbey share was one that was not taken by other criminals, Marilyn Wisbey is still bitter that her relatives got to spend a fair amount of the loot while the overall sum dwindled away. However, her grandfather used some of the money to buy them a house in Upper Norwood.\n\nUp to six of the robbers escaped punishment in one way or another—the \"Ulsterman\", three robbers who were never caught, John Daly who had his charges dismissed at the trial and Ronnie Biggs who escaped from jail and managed to avoid being taken back to the UK. John Daly had entrusted his money to another crook. This man had betrayed him to the police and had absconded with the money. He died before Daly could catch up with him. Upon the release of the others in the mid-1970s, \"Bill Jennings\" got in touch with Buster Edwards and \"Frank Monroe\" got in touch with the South Coast Raiders. Both said that they had no money left. \"Alf Thomas\" had disappeared and John Daly at the time was said to be living on the dole in West Country. Ronnie Biggs quickly spent his share getting a new life (the ultimate goal of some criminals). He loved his new life in Australia, although by the time his family arrived in 1966, all but £7,000 had been spent. £55,000 had been paid as a package deal to get him out of the UK. The rest had gone on legal fees and expenses.\n\nThese books were written in the immediate aftermath of the 1964 trial and before the capture of several of the gang.\n\nBooks written by senior police in the early 1970s, after their retirement, chiefly present accounts of the investigation, capture, trial and recapture of the robbers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33895543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33895543", "title": "Grillo-Theater", "text": "Grillo-Theater\n\nGrillo-Theater is a theatre in Essen, Germany. Named after the industrialist Friedrich Grillo, who made the building possible, it opened on 16 September 1892 with Lessing's drama \"Minna von Barnhelm\".\n\nThe building was badly damaged in World War II; it was restored with a much simpler façade and re-opened in 1950 with Wagner's opera \"Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg\". Notable directors included Erwin Piscator, Jean-Louis Barrault, , . Caspar Neher became head of design in 1927 and designed here eight operas and 11 plays.\n\nIn 1988, the role of the Grillo-Theater as Essen's major stage venue was taken by the newly constructed Aalto Theatre which also opened with \"Die Meistersinger\". Following a major reconstruction by the architect and a reduction of the auditorium from 670 to 400 seats, the Grillo-Theater became a flexible smaller venue; it re-opened in September 1990 with Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21764229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21764229", "title": "High adventure programs of the Order of the Arrow", "text": "High adventure programs of the Order of the Arrow\n\nThe Order of the Arrow in the Boy Scouts of America, in its focus on service, contains four different high adventure programs at the national level that focus on conservation. These programs occur at the four national high adventure bases that the Boy Scouts own. They are only open to youth aged 14 to 20, with specific ages varying by program, and are available at a substantially lower price than other programs at the base. They each include a period of service and a trek period during which the participants get to plan their own routes and experience the best of the bases.\n\nThe first program that the Order of the Arrow established is the Trail Crew trek at Philmont Scout Ranch in New Mexico. The program, started in 1995, is held in multiple sessions every summer. Each session is a fourteen-day program for Order of the Arrow members aged 16 to 20 that gives participants an opportunity to work on various conservation projects around the ranch. Participants build trail for seven days and then go on a seven-day trek throughout Philmont. Many Order of the Arrow lodges and sections offer scholarships to Order of the Arrow members.\n\nAfter the success of the Trail Crew program, the Order of the Arrow established another program following the same model at the Northern Tier National High Adventure Bases in Minnesota. Instead of hiking and backpacking as in Trail Crew, the participants use canoes for transportation. Their work occurs in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness in the Superior National Forest. Since its inception, the program has worked on some of the most treacherous portage trails in the area including the notorious Birch to Frog and Ensign to Boot portages. In the summer of 2007, the program did its first work in Canada on the Big Knife portage on the Canada–US border.\n\nParticipants aged 16–20 are led by Foremen of the Northern Tier Conservation Department. Participants do conservation service for seven days and then go on a seven-day canoe trip. Crews have traveled all the way to International Falls and the Grand Portage National Monument on Lake Superior in only a week. The program also draws a lot from the history of the area, as many of the trails were previously maintained by the Civilian Conservation Corps and crews often map their treks around historic routes often including the Height of Land Portage.\n\nIn 2003, the program and the Order of the Arrow received the US Forest Service Chief's Volunteer Award for Youth Volunteer Service.\n\nStarting in the summer of 2005, another program was established at the Florida National High Adventure Sea Base in the Florida Keys. This program also has a week of service but, initially, it followed a week during which participants gain PADI SCUBA Certification. The OAOA participants, aged 16–20, provided services such as marine life monitoring for the Reef Environmental Education Foundation, and coral reef conservation for the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. OAOA underwent a program revision in 2010, thus cancelling all OAOA programs for that year, and resumed under the new program in 2011. Under the new program, participants spend a week providing service to the various parts of the Florida Keys, including a few spaces on the Florida Sea base property, such as Big Munson Island or the Florida Keys Heritage Trail. The remainder of the time is spent on the water, enjoying the Sea Base program.\n\nThe Canadian Odyssey Order of the Arrow High Adventure Program began in the summer of 2009. Based at the Northern Tier National High Adventure Bases, this program builds on the success of the Wilderness Voyage program by doing trail work in the Quetico Provincial Park in Ontario. Work crews, composed of Arrowmen aged 16–20, canoe from the base in Atikokan, Ontario to base Ely, Minnesota. As of 2013, the program began working exclusively in the Southern Quetico.\n\nWith the opening of the Summit Bechtel Family National Scout Reserve for high adventure programming in 2014, the Order of the Arrow developed a program to be held at the Summit Bechtel Reserve. This program differs from its counterparts in that admission to the program is granted only to those Arrowmen who are between the ages of fourteen and eighteen during the entire trek. Further, the program is significantly shorter; the program runs for only eight days, as opposed to the fourteen of the other programs. However, the structure of the program echoes the structure of the Northern Tier and Philmont programs. For the first four days, participants will be working on a project in the New River Gorge area; the remaining time on the trek will focus on the various activities that are offered at the Summit Bechtel Reserve, especially around whitewater rafting and kayaking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1130097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1130097", "title": "Inflationary epoch", "text": "Inflationary epoch\n\nIn physical cosmology the inflationary epoch was the period in the evolution of the early universe when, according to inflation theory, the universe underwent an extremely rapid exponential expansion. This rapid expansion increased the linear dimensions of the early universe by a factor of at least 10 (and possibly a much larger factor), and so increased its volume by a factor of at least 10. Expansion by a factor of 10 is equivalent to expanding an object 1 nanometer (10 m, about half the width of a molecule of DNA) in length to one approximately 10.6 light years (about 62 trillion miles) long.\n\nThe expansion is thought to have been triggered by the phase transition that marked the end of the preceding grand unification epoch at approximately 10 seconds after the Big Bang. One of the theoretical products of this phase transition was a scalar field called the inflaton field. As this field settled into its lowest energy state throughout the universe, it generated a repulsive force that led to a rapid expansion of space. This expansion explains various properties of the current universe that are difficult to account for without such an inflationary epoch.\n\nIt is not known exactly when the inflationary epoch ended, but it is thought to have been between 10 and 10 seconds after the Big Bang. The rapid expansion of space meant that elementary particles remaining from the grand unification epoch were now distributed very thinly across the universe. However, the huge potential energy of the inflaton field was released at the end of the inflationary epoch, repopulating the universe with a dense, hot mixture of quarks, anti-quarks and gluons as it entered the electroweak epoch.\n\nOn 17 March 2014, astrophysicists of the BICEP2 collaboration announced the detection of inflationary gravitational waves in the B-mode power spectrum, providing the first clear experimental evidence for cosmological inflation and the Big Bang. However, on 19 June 2014, lowered confidence in confirming the cosmic inflation findings was reported.\n\nA preprint released by the Planck team in September 2014, eventually accepted in 2016, provided the most accurate measurement yet of dust, concluding that the signal from dust is the same strength as that reported from BICEP2. On January 30, 2015, a joint analysis of BICEP2 and Planck data was published and the European Space Agency announced that the signal can be entirely attributed to dust in the Milky Way. In 2015, the BICEP2, Keck Array and Planck data was combined within a joint analysis; a March 2015 publication in \"Physical Review Letters\" set a limit on the tensor-to-scalar ratio of .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13299430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13299430", "title": "Internal conflict in Myanmar", "text": "Internal conflict in Myanmar\n\nThe internal conflict in Myanmar refers to a series of primarily ethnic conflicts within Myanmar that began shortly after the country, then known as Burma, became independent from the United Kingdom in 1948. The conflict has been labeled as the world's longest running civil war.\n\nPrior to independence from the United Kingdom, several anti-colonial groups in Myanmar (Burma) protested against British rule over the country. The groups became especially influential during World War II, when the Empire of Japan promised an \"independent Burmese state\" (restricted under the status of a puppet state under Japan) and appointed Ba Maw as its head of state. During this period, left-wing groups such as the Communist Party of Burma (also known as the Burma Communist Party) and armed ethnic groups began to emerge in opposition to both the British and Japanese. In 1947, the Panglong Agreement was reached between Aung San and ethnic leaders, in an attempt to quell hostilities; however, the agreement was not honoured by the post-independence government following Aung San's assassination, leading to further ethnic tensions.\n\nOn 4 January 1948, Myanmar gained independence from the United Kingdom. The communists and the ethnic minorities in the country were dissatisfied with the newly formed government, believing that they were being unfairly excluded from governing the country. For example, it was noted that many Christian Karen military officials, who were originally appointed by the British, were replaced with Buddhist Bamars by the new parliament. Three months after independence, the communists began an armed insurgency against the government. Similarly, Karen insurgent groups began to fight for independence.\n\nIn the early 1960s, the government refused to adopt a federal system, to the dismay of insurgent groups such as the CPB, who proposed adopting the system during peace talks. By the early 1980s, politically motivated armed insurgencies had largely disappeared, while ethnic-based insurgencies continued.\n\nSeveral insurgent groups have negotiated ceasefires and peace agreements with successive governments, which until political reforms that begun in 2011 and ended in 2015, had largely fallen apart.\n\nThe conflict is generally divided into three parts: Insurgencies during the post-independence period under parliamentary rule (1948–1962), insurgencies during the post-1962 coup socialist government under the rule of General Ne Win and his Burma Socialist Programme Party (1962–1988), and insurgencies during the modern post Cold War era; first under the military administration of the State Peace and Development Council (1988–2011) and now under the newly elected civilian government.\n\nFollowing independence from the United Kingdom, the two largest opposition groups in Burma (Myanmar) were the communists, led by the Communist Party of Burma (CPB) and the Karen nationalists, led by the Karen National Union's predecessor. The former had fought the British colonial government prior to independence; however, during the final days of the Japanese occupation of Burma in World War II, both groups helped the British against the Imperial Japanese Army. Initially there was calm during the transitional period after independence, but on 2 April 1948, the CPB fired the first shots of the conflict in Paukkongyi, Pegu Region (present-day Bago Region).\n\nDuring the post-independence period, the KNU favoured an independent state, administered by the Karen people. The proposed state would have been forged out of Karen and Karenni State (present-day Kayin and Kayah State), in Lower Burma (Outer Myanmar). The KNU has since shifted their focus from full independence to regional autonomy, under a federal system with fair Karen representation in the government.\n\nAfter three successive parliamentary governments governed Myanmar (Burma), the Tatmadaw (Myanmar Armed Forces), led by General Ne Win, enacted a coup d'état in 1962, which ousted the parliamentary government and replaced it with a military junta. Accusations of severe human rights abuses and violations followed afterwards, and the cabinet of the parliamentary government and political leaders of ethnic minority groups were arrested and detained without trial. Around this period, other ethnic minority groups began forming larger rebel factions, such as the Kachin Independence Army, in response to the new government's refusal to adopt a federal government structure.\n\nIn 1967, following China's initiation of the Cultural Revolution, violence broke out between local Bamars and overseas Chinese in Myanmar, leading to anti-Chinese riots in Rangoon (present-day Yangon) and other cities. The riots left many overseas Chinese dead, which allegedly prompted China to begin giving logistical aid to the Communist Party of Burma (CPB) in 1968.\n\nBoth immediately after the coup and again in 1972, General Ne Win held peace talks with opposition forces, but both times they fell apart, partly due to General Ne Win's refusal to adopt a multi-party system. After negotiations failed, defectors from the Tatmadaw and ethnic insurgents walked back to their bases, with headlines across Myanmar famously reading \"They Go Back\" (သူတို့ပြန်ကြလေပြီ). Private property was confiscated by the government, and the Burmese Socialist Programme Party (BSPP) was founded in 1974 to govern the country under a one-party system. Under General Ne Win's 26 year dictatorship, Myanmar became an isolated hermit kingdom and one of the least developed countries in the world. In 1988, nationwide student protests resulted in the BSPP and General Ne Win being ousted and replaced with a new military regime, the State Peace and Development Council.\n\nOn 8 August 1988, students began demonstrating in Rangoon (Yangon) against General Ne Win's rule and the disastrous Burmese Way to Socialism system. The protests spread across the country, The uprising ended on 18 September 1988, after a military coup was enacted by the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC) and the BSPP government was overthrown.\n\nAuthorities in Myanmar (Burma) claimed that around 350 people were killed, whilst anti-government groups claimed thousands died in the protests, with a high number of deaths attributed to the military. According to the Economist, over 3,000 people were killed in the public uprising. As a result of the uprising, the new government agreed to sign separate peace treaties with certain insurgent groups. Because the 1988 uprising was mostly politically motivated, ethnic insurgent groups did not receive much support from political movements in Myanmar. In the 1990s, the Tatmadaw severely weakened ethnic insurgent groups, destroying most of their bases and strongholds.\n\nIn 2006, the Tatmadaw (Myanmar Armed Forces) conducted a large military offensive against the Karen National Union (KNU) in Kayin State, which resulted in the displacement of hundreds of thousands of civilians. One estimate claimed that approximately half a million people were displaced due to fighting between government forces and the KNU, and the forcible relocation of villages by the government.\n\nIn 2011, Tatmadaw launched a military offensive named \"Operation Perseverance\" () against insurgents in Shan State in 2011. During the offensive, the Tatmadaw captured territory from the National Democratic Alliance Army (NDAA) and the Shan State Army - North (SSA-N), with the latter being involved in most of the fighting. The offensive was in response to the groups' rejections of the junta's \"One Nation, One Army\" policy.\n\nGovernment forces attacked the Kachin Independence Army's headquarters near the city of Laiza on 19 November 2014, killing at least 22 KIA insurgents, according to the government.\n\nBetween February and May 2015, government forces launched several military operations in Kokang, in northern Shan State; in response to attempts by the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) to retake territory it had lost in 2009.\n\nInsurgents of the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA) attacked Burmese border posts along the Bangladesh–Myanmar border on 9 October 2016, killing nine border officers. Armed clashes continued and on 11 October 2016, four Tatmadaw soldiers were killed by insurgents with recently looted weapons. On 25 August 2017, the ARSA launched a second large-scale attack against 24 police posts and the 552nd Light Infantry Battalion army base in northern Rakhine State. 71 people were reportedly killed in the armed clashes.\n\nThe Kachin people are a major ethnic minority in Myanmar who mainly inhabit the mountainous northern regions of the Kachin Hills in Kachin State. They have fought for the self-determination of their people since Myanmar gained independence, though less so than other ethnic minorities in Myanmar, such as the Karen people. Kachin regular soldiers previously formed a significant part of the Myanmar military; however, after General Ne Win's regime seized power in 1962, many Kachin soldiers defected from the military and reorganized with already active Kachin insurgents to form the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), under the Kachin Independence Organisation (KIO). Religious tensions have also been a source of conflict, as Kachin people have historically been predominantly Christian, while the majority Bamar people have been predominantly Buddhist.\n\nCeasefire agreements have been signed between the KIA and the government several times; most notably a ceasefire signed in 1994, that lasted for 17 years until June 2011, when government forces attacked KIA positions along the Taping River, east of Bhamo, Kachin State.\n\nIn 2012 alone, fighting between the KIA and the government resulted in around 2,500 casualties (both civilian and military); 211 of whom were government soldiers. The violence resulted in the displacement of nearly 100,000 civilians and the complete or partial abandonment of 364 villages.\n\nThe largest insurgent group in Kayah State (formerly Karenni State) is the Karenni Army, whose goal for the past few decades has been to obtain independence and self-determination for the Karenni people.\n\nThe group has claimed that their grievances towards the government include: the (government's) exploitation and rapid depletion of the natural resources in the region, the forced sale of farmer's agricultural products for low prices, extortion and corruption within local authorities, forced labour, forced relocation of whole villages and farms, destruction of houses, planting of mines in civilian areas, torture, rape, extrajudicial killings, burning of villages, expropriation of food supplies and livestock, arrests without charge and exploitation of the poor. The Karenni Army is currently led by General Bee Htoo, and consists of roughly between 500 and 1,500 soldiers.\n\nThe Karen people of Kayin State (formerly Karen State) in eastern Myanmar are the third largest ethnic group in Myanmar, consisting of roughly 7% of the country's total population. Karen insurgent groups have fought for independence and self-determination since 1949. In 1949, the commander-in-chief of the Tatmadaw General Smith Dun, an ethnic Karen, was fired because of the rise of Karen opposition groups, which furthered ethnic tensions. He was replaced by Ne Win, a Bamar nationalist who would go on to become the dictator of Myanmar.\n\nThe government of Myanmar has been accused of using \"scorched earth\" tactics against Karen civilians in the past, including (but not limited to) burning down entire villages, planting land mines, using civilians as slave labour, using civilians as minesweepers and the rape and murder of Karen women. According to a report by legal firm DLA Piper, whose report was presented to the United Nations Security Council, these tactics against the Karen can be identified as ethnic cleansing. The government had however, denied these claims.\n\nThe initial aim of the largest Karen opposition group, the Karen National Union (KNU), and its armed wing, the Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA), was to obtain independence for the Karen people. However, since 1976 they have instead called for a federal union with fair Karen representation and the self-determination of the Karen people. Nearly all of their demands and requests have been ignored or denied by successive governments, a contributing factor to failed peace talks until political reforms which begun in 2011 and ended in 2015.\n\nIn 1995, the main headquarters and operating bases of the KNU had mostly been destroyed or captured by the government, forcing the KNLA (the armed wing of the KNU) to instead operate in the jungles of Kayin State. Up until that year, the Thai government had been supporting insurgents across its border, but soon stopped its support due to a new major economic deal with Myanmar.\n\nThe KNU signed the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) with the government of Myanmar on 15 October 2015, along with seven other insurgent groups. However in March 2018, the government of Myanmar violated the agreement by sending 400 Tatmadaw soldiers into KNU-held territory to build a road connecting two military bases. Armed clashes erupted between the KNU and the Myanmar Army in the Ler Mu Plaw area of Hpapun District, resulting in the displacement of 2,000 people. On 17 May 2018, the Tatmadaw agreed to \"temporarily postpone\" their road project and to withdraw troops from the area.\n\nInsurgent groups of the Chin, Rakhine (formerly \"Arakanese\") and Rohingya ethnic minorities have fought against the government for self-determination in Rakhine State since the early 1950s.\n\nRakhine insurgent groups, such as the Arakan Army and Arakan Liberation Army (ALA), continue to have hostilities towards the government, though major violence has been rare since political reforms and peace talks. The Arakan Army, founded in 2009, is currently the largest insurgent group in Rakhine State, with 1,500–2,500 fighters active in the region.\n\nInsurgents of the Rohingya ethnic minority have been fighting local government forces and other insurgent groups in northern Rakhine State since 1948, with ongoing religious violence between the predominantly Muslim Rohingyas and Buddhist Rakhines fueling the conflict. The legal and political rights of the Rohingya people have been an underlying issue in the conflict, with spontaneous bouts of violence such as the 2012 Rakhine State riots and 2013 Myanmar anti-Muslim riots periodically occurring as a result. Despite making up a majority of the population in the three northern townships of Rakhine State, Rohingyas are often targets of religiously motivated attacks. Because the government does not recognise the Rohingya people as an official ethnic group in Myanmar, Rohingyas cannot apply for citizenship and few laws exist to protect their rights.\n\nOn 9 October 2016, unidentified insurgents attacked three Burmese border posts along Myanmar's border with Bangladesh, starting a new armed conflict in northern Rakhine State. According to government officials in the border town of Maungdaw, the attackers looted several dozen firearms and ammunition from the border posts, and brandished knives and homemade slingshots that fired metal bolts. The attacks left nine border officers and \"several insurgents\" dead. On 11 October 2016, four Tatmadaw soldiers were killed on the third day of fighting. A newly emerged insurgent group, the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA), claimed responsibility a week later.\n\nDuring the early hours of 25 August 2017, ARSA insurgents launched coordinated attacks on 24 police posts and the 552nd Light Infantry Battalion army base, killing a dozen people. In response, the Tatmadaw launched \"clearance operations\" in northern Rakhine State, which critics argued targeted Rohingya civilians rather than insurgents.\n\nThe Shan people are the largest ethnic group in Shan State and the second largest in Myanmar. In 1947, the Panglong Agreement was negotiated between Aung San, a prominent founding father of Myanmar, and Shan leaders, which would have given the Shan the option to split from Myanmar a decade after independence if they were unsatisfied with the central government. This was, however, not honoured by the post-independence government following Aung San's assassination. During the Tatmadaw's (Myanmar Armed Forces') heavy militarisation of the state in the late 1940s and early 1950s, locals accused them of mistreating, torturing, robbing, raping, unlawfully arresting and massacring villagers. As a result, on 21 May 1958, an armed resistance movement, led by Sao Noi and Saw Yanna, was started in Shan State.\n\nOne the largest Shan insurgent groups in Myanmar is the Shan State Army - South (SSA-S), which has around 6,000 to 8,000 soldiers, and was led by Yawd Serk until his resignation on 2 February 2014. The SSA-S maintains bases along the Myanmar-Thailand border, and signed a ceasefire agreement with the government on 2 December 2011.\n\nThe Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) is a Kokang insurgent group active in the Kokang Self-Administered Zone in northern Shan State. The group signed a ceasefire agreement with the government in 1989, the same year it was founded, which lasted for two decades until 2009, when violence erupted between the group and government forces. Violence again erupted between the MNDAA and government forces in 2015 and 2017.\n\nIn late November 2016, the Northern Alliance—which consists of four insurgent groups, the Arakan Army (AA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) and the Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA)—attacked towns and border posts along the China–Myanmar border in Muse Township, northern Shan State. The insurgents captured the town of Mong Ko on 25 November 2016 and maintained control of it until they withdrew from the town on 4 December 2016 to avoid civilian casualties from airstrikes by the Myanmar Air Force.\n\nPrior to independence, Aung San, considered a founding father of Myanmar, had convinced local Shan leaders to join him in his pursuit for independence, and with them, negotiated the Panglong Agreement in 1947. The agreement guaranteed the right to self-determination, political representation in the post-independence government and economic equality amongst the various ethnic groups. It also gave the Chin, Kachin and Shan people the option to separate from Myanmar after a decade if their states' leaders were unhappy with the central government. However, this was not honoured by the government, and has been one of the causes of insurgencies in those states.\n\nWhilst some groups continue to fight for full independence and for the right for self-determination of their people, groups such as the Chin National Front (CNF) and the Karen National Union (KNU) have since fought instead for regional autonomy and a federal system of government in Myanmar.\n\nDuring the 8888 Uprising, Aung San Suu Kyi emerged as a national symbol for democracy, after leading the largest opposition party, the National League for Democracy (NLD). The military junta arranged a general election in 1990 and Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy (NLD) won a majority of the vote. However, the military junta refused to recognise the results and instead placed Aung San Suu Kyi under house arrest for 15 years.\n\nIn 2007, hundreds of thousands of monks protested against the military junta's rule, and called for free elections, minority rights and the release of political prisoners in an event now known as the Saffron Revolution. The protest originally began in response to the government's removal of price subsidies for compressed natural gas.\n\nIn 2011, the government introduced a new constitution following political reforms, and thousands of political prisoners were released, including Aung San Suu Kyi. In November 2014, the NLD attempted to make amendments to the constitution, in response to a clause that made Aung San Suu Kyi ineligible to become President of Myanmar if her party won an election. These amendments however, were rejected.\n\nThe government of Myanmar has been accused of using \"scorched earth\" tactics against civilians, most notably in Kayin State. The accusations included burning down entire villages, planting landmines, using civilians as slave labour, using civilians as minesweepers and the rape and murder of Karen women. According to a report by legal firm DLA Piper, whose report was presented to the United Nations Security Council, these tactics against the Karen have been identified as ethnic cleansing.\n\nBoth sides have been accused of using landmines, which have caused hundreds of accidental civilian injuries and deaths. The Karen National Union (KNU) has been accused of planting landmines in rural areas, most of which have not been disarmed. The KNU claim that landmines are vital to repelling government forces, because it \"discourages them from attacking civilians\". However, a majority of those who fall victim to KNU planted landmines are local villagers, rather than government soldiers. Victims of landmines must travel to the Myanmar–Thailand border to seek treatment, as local hospitals and facilities lack proper equipment and funding.\n\nBoth sides have also been accused of using thousands of child soldiers, despite the fact that the government of Myanmar and seven insurgent groups signed an agreement with UNICEF in 2012, promising not to exploit children for military and political gains. The International Labour Organization (ILO) has accused both sides of continuing to use child soldiers despite the agreement. According to the ILO, the Tatmadaw have discharged hundreds of child soldiers since 2012; however, they estimated that at least 340 child soldiers had been recruited by the Tatmadaw between 2013 and 2014. The most notable case of the use child soldiers in Myanmar was of Johnny and Luther Htoo, the leaders of God's Army, a former rebel faction. At the time of their formation of God's Army, they were both only 10 years old.\n\nThe conflict has resulted in a large number of both civilian deaths and refugees, with many refugees fleeing to Thailand. The UN estimates that between 1996 and 2006, around 1 million people were internally displaced inside Myanmar, over 230,000 of whom remain displaced in southeast Myanmar, and 128,000 refugees live in temporary shelters on the Myanmar–Thailand border. In August 2007, approximately 160,000 refugees fled to nine refugee camps along the Myanmar–Thailand border and the Thai border provinces of Chiang Mai and Ratchaburi. Approximately 62% of the refugee population consisted of people from the Karen ethnic minority. Humanitarian organisations such as Doctors Without Borders have since sent assistance and support to the refugees.\n\nCivilians have allegedly been removed from their homes and have had their land confiscated by the government to be used in industrial projects. Civilians have also been removed from their homes by the central government, and their land confiscated, in order for development projects and resource exploitation.\n\nIn Rakhine State, there are currently about 75,000 Rohingya refugees, according to Refugee International. UNICEF has reported that living conditions in Rohingya refugee camps in Rakhine State are \"wholly inadequate\" and lacks access to basic services. Historically, the persecution of Burmese Indians and other ethnic minority groups in Myanmar after the 1962 coup has led to the expulsion of nearly 300,000 people. In October 2017, there were an estimated 947,000 Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh. The Rohingya people have been described by the United Nations as \"among the world's least wanted\" and \"one of the world's most persecuted minorities.\" Al-Qaeda leader Ayman Al-Zawahiri has also threatened Myanmar with terrorist attacks, after their \"terror network\" expanded into India, Bangladesh and Myanmar.\n\nUnder the new constitutional reforms in 2011, state level and union level ceasefire agreements were made with several insurgent groups. 14 out of 17 of the largest rebel factions signed a ceasefire agreement with the new reformed government. According to the Myanmar Peace Monitoring group, clashes between the Kachin Independence Organisation (KIO), its allies, and the government, have displaced hundreds of thousands of people, and created another severe humanitarian crisis in Kachin and northern Shan State. All of the 14 signatories wanted negotiations in accordance with the Panglong Agreement of 1947, which granted self-determination, a federal system of government (meaning regionol autonomy), religious freedom and ethnic minority rights. However, the new constitution, only had a few clauses dedicated to minority rights, and therefore, the government discussed with rebel factions using the new constitution for reference, rather than the Panglong Agreement. There was no inclusive plan or body that represented all the factions, and as a result, in resent, the KNU backed out of the conference and complained the lack of independence for each party within the ethnic bloc. However, most of the negotiations between the \"State Peace Deal Commission\" and rebel factions were formal and peaceful.\n\nOn 31 March 2015, a draft of the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) was finalised between representatives from 15 different insurgent groups (all part of the Nationwide Ceasefire Coordination Team or NCCT) and the government of Myanmar. However, only eight of the 15 insurgent groups signed the final agreement on 15 October 2015. The signing was witnessed by observers and delegates from the United Nations, the United Kingdom, Norway, Japan and the United States.\n\nThe Union Peace Conference - 21st Century Panglong was held from 31 August to 4 September 2016 with several different organisations as representatives, in an attempt to mediate between the government and different insurgent groups. The name was a reference to the original Panglong Conference held during British rule in 1947, which was negotiated between Aung San and ethnic leaders.\n\n – Since 1991, the UN General Assembly has adopted twenty-five different resolutions regarding Myanmar's government, condemning previous military juntas for their systematic violations of human rights and lack of political freedom. In 2009 they urged the then ruling junta to take urgent measures to end violations of international human rights and humanitarian laws in the country. The request was mostly honoured during political reforms that begun in 2011 and ended in 2015.\n\n – The People's Republic of China allegedly gave logistical aid to the Communist Party of Burma (CPB) during the communist insurgency in Myanmar, in support of the party's Marxist-Leninist-Maoist ideology. After the CPB's armed wing agreed to disarm in 1988, China was accused by Myanmar of continuing to support insurgent groups operating along its border, such as the United Wa State Army.\n\nIn 2016, China pledged to support Myanmar's ongoing peace process by encouraging China-friendly insurgent groups to attend peace talks with the Burmese government and by sending more soldiers to secure its border with Myanmar. China also offered $3 million USD to fund the negotiations. However, the Burmese government has expressed suspicion over China's involvement in the peace process, due to China's alleged links to the Northern Alliance and the United Wa State Army.\n\nOthers: Dave Everett was a member of the Australian Special Air Service Regiment before leaving in 1986 and joining the Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA) as a mercenary. Everett fought alongside the KNLA under the alias \"Steve\" and trained insurgents, helping them improve their marksmanship and teaching them how to use claymore anti-personnel mines. In order to fund his time with the KNLA, Everett perpetrated several robberies in Australia with the help of accomplices and took piloting lessons so he could smuggle weapons into Myanmar. Everett returned to Australia a year later in 1987.\n\nFormer members of the British green berets, French Foreign Legion, and the Russian Spetsnaz were also reportedly fighting alongside insurgents as recently as 2012.\n\n\n\nNews:\n\nOrganisations:\n"}
{"id": "10082515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10082515", "title": "Jim Leavelle", "text": "Jim Leavelle\n\nJames Robert Leavelle (born August 23, 1920) is the former Dallas, Texas, homicide detective who was escorting Lee Harvey Oswald through the basement of Dallas Police headquarters when Oswald was shot by Jack Ruby. Several photographs—including one that won a Pulitzer Prize—were taken of Oswald just before and as Ruby pulled the trigger. The photos show Leavelle wearing a tan suit, in sharp contrast to the other detective (L. C. Graves), who is wearing a black suit.\n\nLeavelle was born and raised in Red River County, Texas. He served in the United States Navy during World War II, and served as a sailor on board the , and was on board the ship during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. In April 1942, the Whitney left Pearl Harbor and headed for the South Pacific to support operations there. One day while the ship was in a storm at sea, Leavelle was descending a ladder when a large wave hurled him to the deck. The impact seriously damaged his knees, and he was evacuated to Oak Knoll Naval Hospital near Oakland, California. In hospital, he met nurse Taimi Snelma Leavelle, his wife-to-be. Around the same time, Leavelle left on a medical discharge to take a civilian supply job with the Army Air Forces in Southern California.\n\nAfter World War II ended, Leavelle began a career as a homicide detective. He joined the Dallas Police Department in April 1950 and retired in April 1975.\n\nOn November 24, 1963, two days after the assassination of U.S. President John F. Kennedy, Lee Harvey Oswald was handcuffed between Leavelle and another detective as he was being led through the basement of the Dallas Police Headquarters to an armored car for the short trip to the county jail. Jack Ruby then stepped from the crowd and fatally shot Oswald at point-blank range.\n\nOn March 25, 1964, Leavelle provided testimony to Warren Commission assistant counsel Leon Hubert. He provided additional testimony to assistant counsel Joseph Ball on April 7.\n\nWhen Leavelle testified before the Warren Commission, he claimed that the first time he had ever sat in on an interrogation with Oswald was on Sunday morning, November 24, 1963. When Counsel Joseph Ball asked Leavelle if he had ever spoken to Oswald before this interrogation, he stated; \"No, I had never talked to him before\". Leavelle then stated during his testimony that \"the only time I had connections with Oswald was this Sunday morning [November 24, 1963]. I never had [the] occasion to talk with him at any time...\"\n\nThe tan suit Leavelle wore on November 24, 1963, is on display at the Sixth Floor Museum.\n\nLeavelle supports the official conclusion that Oswald acted alone, and has also refuted conspiracy theories surrounding the assassination.\n\nIn December 1992, while demonstrating how a police officer tried to prevent Oswald from being shot, Leavelle accidentally shot researcher and photographer Bob Porter.\n\nIn a 2006 interview, Leavelle said that he was the first to interrogate Oswald after his arrest (contrary to his Warren Commission testimony); he said that he joked with Oswald before the transfer, saying \"Lee, if anybody shoots at you, I hope they're as good a shot as you are,\" meaning that the person would hit Oswald instead of Leavelle. Oswald smiled and said, \"You're being melodramatic. Nobody's going to shoot at me.\"\n\nLeavelle later said to author Joseph McBride that to him, the murder of President Kennedy was \"no different than a south Dallas nigger killing\".\n\nDr. Robert McClelland, who treated Oswald at Parkland Hospital, has said that while at Parkland, he noticed that Leavelle was waiting outside the hospital room and said that Leavelle told him that after Oswald was shot, he claimed to have \"leaned over Oswald and said, 'Son, you're hurt real bad. Do you wanna say anything?' He looked at me for a second. He waited like he was thinking. Then he shook his head back and forth just as wide as he could. Then he closed his eyes.\"\n\nIn November 2011, Leavelle had a serious fall while visiting his daughter Karla and was flown to Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas for immediate surgery to remove his eye due to the severity of damage. As a result, he now wears a glass eye.\n\nIn 2013, Leavelle was recognized for his service during an awards ceremony. Dallas's police chief gave him the Police Commendation Award and renamed the department's Detective of the Year Award in his honor.\n\nLeavelle's wife Taimi died in 2014.\n\nLeavelle appeared as himself in the 1978 made-for-television movie, \"Ruby and Oswald\".\n\nThe character Leavelle, who trains Homer Simpson at \"Leavelle's Bodyguard Academy\" in \" The Simpsons\"' episode Mayored to the Mob, is based on Leavelle, as he appeared when escorting Oswald when Oswald was shot by Ruby. Leavelle was voiced by Mark Hamill. Leavelle trains the bodyguards by pretending to shoot their protectee from a grassy knoll on a cart. This is a reference to the grassy knoll at the site of President John F. Kennedy’s assassination, Dealey Plaza and a scene from the Kennedy assassination film \"Executive Action\" (1973).\n\n\"The Guy in the White Hat\" Griffin, who appears in the \"Family Guy\" episode Peter-assment, is based on Leavelle.\n"}
{"id": "30522197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30522197", "title": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2011", "text": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2011\n\nThe Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2011 was the ninth edition of the contest, and took place in Yerevan, Armenia at the Karen Demirchyan Sports and Concerts Complex. It was the first time in history of the Junior Eurovision Song Contest that the contest was held in the previous year's winning country. Public Television of Armenia ARMTV was the main organizer of the show, being provided financial aid from the European Broadcasting Union made of entrance fees from the participating broadcasters, while Swedish company HD Resources assisted with the technical side of the production.\n\nThe winner was the group Candy from Georgia with the song \"Candy Music\". This is Georgia's second victory in the Junior Eurovision Song Contest after they previously won in 2008. 13 countries participated with Malta and Serbia withdrawing and Bulgaria returning.\n\nOn 18 January 2011, Armenian national broadcaster ARMTV and the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) announced that the 2011 contest would take place in the Karen Demirchyan Sports and Concerts Complex, in Yerevan. The complex consists of two main halls; the Concerts hall and the Sports hall, in addition to the large foyer, \"Hayastan\" conference hall and \"Argishti\" hall designated for diplomatic meetings, exhibitions and other events.\n\nIn May 2011, ARMTV announced a competition for children to design the official logo of the contest, which was due to be presented on 1 June. However, in the end the logo was designed by a professional teams from ARMTV, the EBU and Studio of Anton Baranov from Belarus, who also designed logo of Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2010 and was presented on 15 July 2011. The logo depicts equalizer bars in the shape of a mountain, hinting a toy version of the famous Mount Ararat. The graphics were made by an Icelandic called Guðmundur Þór Kárason who previously worked with the Icelandic children's show LazyTown. The poscards directed by also him along Arthur Vardanyan.\n\nChanges to the voting included that televoting was possible after all songs had been performed, and not from the beginning of the show as in previous years – returning to the rules active in 2003–2005. Each country's spokesperson also announced all the points during their presentation, due to the lower number of participating countries, as it was done in 2003–2004.\n\nOn 15 July, the EBU announced that 12 countries would compete in the upcoming contest. San Marino was to compete for the first time, while Latvia, Serbia and Malta withdrew. EBU also had been negotiating with several other countries, including Italy and Spain, but they were not able to confirm their participation due to the shortage of time. On 15 August, it was announced that Bulgaria had joined the list, returning after a two-year absence from the contest. On 9 September Latvia reversed its decision to withdraw from the contest and would now send a participant. However, on 7 October it was announced that San Marino would not be present in Armenia as they were not able to find a suitable participant in time for the contest, hoping to send an entry to the 2012 edition. Therefore, a total of 13 countries took part in Armenia.\n\nEven though rules of Junior Eurovision do not allow participation of returning artists - EBU issued special permission for Russian entry 2011 performed by participant of Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2009 Ekaterina Ryabova, which is first similar case in history of the contest. According to Sietse Bakker, EBU coordinator - EBU may also drop this rule completely, starting from 2012. Notably, Ekaterina had also already applied to national preselection in 2010 as well, but was disqualified following the existing rule.\n\nEach country gave their votes through a 50% jury and 50% televoting system, which decided their top ten songs using the points 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1.\n\n2. While the Dutch song is sung in Dutch; however, one phrase is sung in English.\n3. The Georgian song is in Georgian, however the titular English phrase is sung in the chorus.\n\n\nThe order in which votes were cast during the 2011 contest along with the spokesperson who was responsible for announcing the votes for their respective country. Each national broadcaster also sent a commentator to the contest, in order to provide coverage of the contest in their own native language. Details of the commentators and the broadcasting station for which they represented are also included in the table below.\n\n\nJunior Eurovision Song Contest 2011: Yerevan, is a compilation album put together by the European Broadcasting Union, and was released by Universal Music Group on 25 November 2011. The album features all the songs from the 2011 contest, along with karaoke versions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24759161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24759161", "title": "Les Siestes Electroniques", "text": "Les Siestes Electroniques\n\nBased in Toulouse, Southern France, Les Siestes électroniques is a summer festival dedicated to emerging artists from the field of music & digital culture.\n\nIts motley line-up mainly focuses on electronic musicians and aims at a professional audience as well as the general public. The fact that its open-air concerts are free of charge makes Les Siestes électroniques a rare occurrence within the landscapes of European festivals. Les Siestes offers an opportunity to experience contemporary music though concerts, club nights, workshops and sometimes exhibitions.\nThe festival runs for four or five days, usually starting on a Wednesday or a Thursday in the last week of June. Next edition of the festival will be held June 26–29, 2014.\nLes Siestes Electroniques has been an event by Rotation since 2002.\n\nSince 2011 the festival falls into two editions. One takes place in Toulouse and the other in Paris at the Musée du quai Branly. Born of a reflection around the themes of the cultural diversity, the parisian edition proposes to musicians an exceptional access to the audio collection of the museum (dedicated to non-occidental cultures). These musicians will thus be invited to sample a set of resources of an unsuspected wealth, and then to replay it during an ultimate public event which is free and open-air\n\n@ Paris: Vincent Moon, Kangding Ray, Sinner DC, Pierre Bastien, Sylvain Chauveau, Low Jack, Dj Arc de Triomphe, Gangpol & Mit\n@ Paris: Plapla Pinky, Keith Fullerton Whithman, Alan Bishop, Hicham Chadly, Sam Tiba, Jean Nipon, Doug Shipton, NLF3, Arandel\n@ Paris: Paris : Débruit, Pilooski, The Berg Sans Nipple, Bimbo Tower Sound System, Secousse Sound System, Awesome Tapes From Africa, Romain BNO, Laurent Jeanneau\n\nSince 2007, Les Siestes Electroniques have developed internationally their project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "318564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318564", "title": "Manuel Fraga", "text": "Manuel Fraga\n\nManuel Fraga Iribarne (; 23 November 1922 – 15 January 2012) was a Spanish professor and politician in Francoist Spain, who was also the founder of the People's Party. Fraga was the Minister of Information and Tourism between 1962 and 1969, Ambassador to the United Kingdom between 1973 and 1975, Minister of the Interior in 1975, Deputy Prime Minister between 1975 and 1976, President of the People's Alliance/People's Party between 1979 and 1990 and President of the Regional Government of Galicia between 1990 and 2005. He has also been both a Deputy in the Congress and a Senator.\n\nFraga's career as one of the key political figures in Spain straddles both General Francisco Franco's Spanish State and the subsequent transition to representative democracy. He served as the President of the Regional Government of Galicia from 1990 to 2005 and as a Senator until November 2011. Fraga is also one of the Fathers of the Constitution.\n\nFraga was born in Vilalba, Lugo Province, Galicia. Trained in law, economics and political science, he began his political career in 1945, during Francisco Franco's reign.\n\nFraga started in the Franco cabinet in 1962 as Minister of Information and tourism. Fraga authorized the execution of political prisoners under the Francoist State. A notable case is the execution of communist leader Julián Grimau, whom he called \"that little gentleman\" () in a press conference when asked about his detention and death sentence. His death sentence caused a large controversy outside of Spain. Grimau was executed by firing squad in 1963. Fraga never publicly apologized or expressed regret for Grimau's execution.\n\nAnother notable case was the assassination by Spanish police of Enrique Ruano, a student activist who opposed the Francoist State. Fraga telephoned Ruano's father and threatened to arrest his other daughter, Margot, who was also an anti-Francoist, unless she immediately stopped her activism. The then-director of Spanish newspaper ABC, Torcuato Luca de Tena, later confessed that Fraga ordered him to publish a manipulated copy of Ruano's personal diary in order to present Ruano as a mentally unstable person who killed himself.\n\nBetween 1962 and 1969 he served as Minister for Information and Tourism, and played a major role in the revitalization of Spanish tourist industry, leading a campaign under the slogan \"Spain is different!\". On 8 March 1966, he attempted to dispel fears of a nuclear accident after the Palomares hydrogen bombs incident by swimming in the contaminated water with the American ambassador, Angier Biddle Duke.\n\nFraga also established himself as one of the more prominent members of a reformist faction in the government who favoured opening up the State from above. He introduced an \"a posteriori\" censorship law, which was based on lifting pre-publication censorship and a reduction in its strictness. Additionally, a certain sexual liberality in films was popularly summarized in the expression \"Con Fraga hasta la braga\" (\"With Fraga [you can see] even the panties\"). His depart from the government was prompted by the MATESA affair: the debt of the important publisher Manuel Salvat Dalmau was tangled with members of the Opus Dei, faction which Fraga opposed, and then he released the news. The caudillo Franco expelled both sectors.\n\nAfter a brief period as Spain's ambassador in the United Kingdom, which ended with Franco's death in 1975, Fraga was appointed vice president of the government (deputy prime minister) and Interior Minister (Ministro de Gobernación) on 12 December 1975, under Carlos Arias Navarro, a post he held until 5 July 1976. This was the first government with Juan Carlos I as chief of state.\n\nAlthough Fraga was known to favor liberalising the State from above, he himself favoured an extremely gradual transition to full democracy. The drastic measures he took as interior minister and head of state security during the first days of the Spanish transition to democracy gave him a reputation for heavy-handedness, and deeply damaged his popularity. The phrase \"¡La calle es mía!\" (\"Streets are mine!\") was attributed to him as his answer to complaints of police repression of street protests: he claimed that the streets did not belong to the \"people\" but to the state. He was known to be an admirer of Cánovas del Castillo. During a clash at the Church of St. Francis of Assisi in Vitoria (Euskadi) between police and striking workers, on Fraga's orders the police stormed into a packed church into which 4,000 demonstrators had retreated and went on a shooting spree, resulting in five dead and over 100 wounded.\n\nFraga was one of the writers of the new Spanish constitution approved in 1978. Along with other former reformist members of the Francoist State, he founded the People's Alliance (Alianza Popular – AP), and became its president. Although he tried to brand the party as a mainstream conservative party, the people did not trust him due to large number of former Francoists in the party, combined with his performance as interior minister. The party fared poorly in its first years, but after the 1982 crisis and the collapse of the UCD, the centrist party that had won the first two democratic elections, AP became the second party in Spain.\n\nFraga was reckoned as the Leader of the Opposition to the Spanish Socialist Workers Party (PSOE) government. The PSOE enjoyed great popularity and an absolute majority winning streak in the 1982 and 1986 elections, in part because Fraga and the AP were generally viewed as too reactionary to be an alternative. Following this critical development, Fraga resigned the presidency of the party in 1986. He suffered a scandal in 1983, when it was reported that Rodolfo Almirón, a former Argentine national police officer implicated in Triple A, a right-wing death squad in Argentina, became a chief of his security team. Because of the outcry by Argentinean Justice, Rodolfo Eduardo Almirón Sena was arrested in 2006 in a subsidized apartment in Torrent (Valencia) and abandon his career at People's Party.\n\nWith the AP in headlong decline, Fraga resumed the leadership of the party in 1989. With the addition of several lesser Christian democratic parties and the remnants of the Democratic Center Union, he refounded the People's Alliance as the People's Party (Partido Popular – PP). Later in the same year, Fraga encouraged the election of José María Aznar as the party's new president. Fraga was then appointed as honorary president of the PP.\n\nManuel Fraga returned to his Galician homeland in 1989, winning that year's regional presidential election as head of the People's Party in Galicia (PPdeG), which had won a one-seat majority in the election. He remained in charge for almost 15 years until 2005, when the PPdeG lost its overall majority.\n\nFraga saw his credibility damaged in late 2002, when the oil tanker ship \"Prestige\" sank off the Galician coast. It caused a massive oil spill that affected the shoreline in the northwest of the region. Fraga was said to have been slow to react and unable, or unwilling, to handle the situation. In 2004, a power struggle between factions of PPdeG further hurt the party's image.\n\nSubsequently, in the autonomous elections of 2005, Fraga and the PPdeG lost their absolute majority in the Parliament of Galicia. Despite their obtaining a 45% plurality in the elections, a left-government coalition developed between the Socialists' Party of Galicia (PSdeG) and the Galician Nationalist Bloc, making socialist Emilio Pérez Touriño the new president. Fraga remained on the political scene from Galicia, as a member of the Senate representing the Parliament of Galicia. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, a member of the Galician Popular Party, has been the PPdG head since late 2005.\n\nFraga was designated as a Senator by the Galicia Parliament in 2008.\n\nFraga was one of the writers of the democratic constitution and spent part of his political career lessening the censorship law during the latter years of the Francoist State. However he had openly admitted admiration for General Franco and the Francoist State in public on several different occasions. He was renowned for his temper tantrums in public at not being referred to or addressed as \"Don Manuel\". He most famously shouted during a television interview, completely unaware the camera was filming and the show was being broadcast live on air. Manuel Fraga Iribarne was probably one of the most important and yet controversial politicians in modern Spain.\n\nTo his supporters, Fraga was a Galician hero who throughout his rule, modernised Galicia and built up a fair level of tourism to the region. He built great roads and motorways and in 2000, he approved the Galician Plan to build Spain's first high speed bullet train.\n\nTo his opponents he always was a dinosaur from the Franco regime. He was a keen follower of Carl Schmitt's ideas, and granted the German political theorist honorary membership to the Institute of Political Studies in 1962, in a ceremony where he praised him as a \"revered master\". Fraga identified himself with the figure of Antonio Cánovas del Castillo in 1976 for the first time; this idea of identification between Cánovas and Fraga was reinforced by historiographical trends close to Fraga in the 1980s in order to commend his figure. Despite their political differences, he developed a close friendship with Fidel Castro, himself of Galician descent, who met with Fraga in Galicia during a visit to Spain in 1992.\n\nFraga died on 15 January 2012 of a respiratory disease. His funeral was attended by Prince Felipe and Princess Letizia.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3415081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3415081", "title": "Marais des Cygnes River", "text": "Marais des Cygnes River\n\nThe Marais des Cygnes River (, , or ) is a principal tributary of the Osage River, about long, in eastern Kansas and western Missouri in the United States. Via the Osage and Missouri rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River. The name \"Marais des Cygnes\" means \"Marsh of the Swans\" in French (presumably in reference to the trumpeter swan which was historically common in the Midwest.) The river is notorious for flash flooding. The river is referred to in the song \"The River\" by Chely Wright.\n\nThe Marais des Cygnes is formed about 1 mile north of Reading, Kansas, a city in northern Lyon County, by the confluence of Elm Creek and One Hundred Forty-Two Mile Creek, and flows generally east-southeastwardly through Osage, Franklin, Miami and Linn counties in Kansas, and Bates County in Missouri, past the Kansas towns of Melvern, Quenemo, Ottawa, Osawatomie and La Cygne and through the Marais des Cygnes National Wildlife Refuge. In Missouri, it joins the Little Osage River at the boundary of Bates and Vernon counties to form the Osage River, west of Schell City.\n\nIn Osage County, Kansas, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers dam causes the river to form Melvern Lake, which is the site of Eisenhower State Park.\n\nThe Marais des Cygnes River has a history of flooding. One of the first such floods that has been noted is the Great Flood of 1844 known as \"Big Water\" in Native American legend. Though no measurements were taken, it is estimated to have crested at .\n\nSome of the more notable floods after 1844 include the 1909 flood, cresting at ; the 1915 flood, cresting at ; the 1928 flood, cresting at ; the 1944 flood, cresting at ; the 1951 flood, cresting at ; and the 2007 flood, cresting at .\n\nThe Great Flood of 1951 happened in June and July 1951, killing 28 people and causing over $935 million damage (in 1951 dollars). This flood also affected the Kansas, Neosho, and Verdigris river basins.\n\nAs a result of the 1951 flood, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers built levees and flood control systems on the Marais des Cygnes in the 1960s, including massive freestanding gated floodwalls in Ottawa, Kansas. Main Street (Old U.S. Highway 59) in Ottawa has to be detoured or is simply closed down when the gates are shut.\n\nThe United States Board on Geographic Names settled on \"Marais des Cygnes River\" as the name in 1971. According to the Geographic Names Information System, the river has also been known as:\nIt is most often pronounced Mare D' Zeen river by those who live nearby it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56701777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56701777", "title": "Murder of Harry and Harriette Moore", "text": "Murder of Harry and Harriette Moore\n\nHarry T. Moore and his wife Harriette V. S. Moore were pioneer activists and leaders of the early civil rights movement in the United States, becoming the first martyrs of the movement. On the night of Christmas, December 25, 1951, a bomb that had been planted under the Moores' bedroom floor exploded. They had celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary earlier that day. Harry died in the ambulance in transit from the attack, and his wife Harriette died from her injuries nine days later, on January 3, 1952. Their murder was the first assassination of any activist to occur during the civil rights movement, and the only time that a husband and wife were murdered during the history of the movement.\n\nHarry Moore and Harriette Simms married in December 25, 1926 and moved into the Simms' family home the following fall. Harry was an educator, and Harriette was a former teacher turned insurance broker. In 1927, Harry was promoted to the position of principal at the local Titusville Colored School. The city's school system was racially segregated, like many in the country at the time. While Harry taught the school's ninth grade (the school taught grades one through nine), he also supervised the team of teachers at the school. The school was closed early his first year by the local school board just 6 months into the year, as part of the local school system's systemic discrimination against black children. The Moores had their first daughter in 1928, and moved into their own home with an acre of land given to them by Harriette's parents. They gave birth to their second daughter in 1930. Harriette returned to her career in education the following year, and later began working as a teacher for the same school as Harry.\n\nIn 1934, Harry founded the Brevard County, Florida, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) chapter. He later served as the NAACP’s first Executive Secretary in the state of Florida. The NAACP chapter worked towards achieving equal pay for equal work for teachers of any race, fought to get lynchings prosecuted, attempted to register black voters in the region.\n\nThe activism of Moore was highly controversial in the local white dominated county. In 1946 this resulted in the firings of Harry and Harriette from their jobs in education by state authorities. Afterwards, Harry became a full time employee of the NAACP.\n\nOn the night of December 25, 1951, the Moores finished celebrating Christmas and their 25th wedding anniversary. When they later retired to their bedroom for the evening, a bomb exploded, injuring Harry and Harriette but leaving their daughter (who was at home at the time — the other was in a different location) unharmed. The improvised explosive device, which was made from dynamite, had been placed directly under the Moores' bedroom floor. The Moores were rushed to the nearest hospital that would treat African-Americans in Sanford, Florida, a drive by car. Harry died in the ambulance; his wife Harriette lived to see her husband buried, before dying nine days later from her injuries.\n\nOver the years, a number of motives have been suggested for the Moores’ murders. All of them share a common theme — retribution against Harry Moore for his civil rights activities. \nSince the night of the explosion in 1951, five separate criminal investigations have been initiated and completed. The first investigation was headed by the FBI beginning on the night of the explosion and concluding in 1955. The second investigation was a joint investigation by the Brevard County Sheriff's Office and Brevard County State Attorney’s Office in 1978. The third investigation took place in 1991 by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE). In 2004, a fourth investigation was commenced by the Florida Attorney General's Office of Civil Rights. In 2008, the FBI again investigated the Moore homicides as part of the Department of Justice's \"Cold Case Initiative\".\n\nIn total, the five criminal investigations revealed evidence implicating four subjects in the bombing. The four subjects were known to be high ranking members within the Ku Klux Klan in the central region of Florida. The first of the four, Earl J. Brooklyn, was a Klansman with a reputation for being exceedingly violent and described as \"a renegade\" after being expelled from a Klavern of the Ku Klux Klan in Georgia for engaging in unsanctioned acts of violence. Brooklyn reportedly was in possession of floor plans of the Moore home, and was said to be recruiting volunteers to assist in the bombing. The second subject, Tillman H. \"Curley\" Belvin, was also reported to be a violent member of the Klan and a close friend of Brooklyn. Joseph Cox, another Klansman, was implicated in the bombing by a fellow Klansman, Edward L. Spivey. Spivey implicated Cox in a deathbed confession while suffering in the late stages of cancer in 1978. Cox committed suicide in 1952, one day after being confronted by the FBI.\n\nThe investigation revealed that Harry's civil rights advocacy made him a known target of the Klan. No arrests were ever made in the case. All four of the subjects are now deceased. The Department of Justice Civil Rights Division closed the file on the federal investigation in 2011.\n\nDuring the early morning hours of the following day, December 26, 1951, angry men in Titusville's black neighborhoods were in the streets spreading word of the bombing. Within the following hours men and women, from Brevard County, still in their nightclothes walked and rode towards Mims to protest in the streets. Most of the people knew Moore personally, some via his job in education, some via the NAACP, and others through his registration drives.\n\nThe assassination triggered nationwide protests, with rallies, memorials, and other events held following the news of the bombing. The 33rd President of the United States Harry S Truman, and Governor Fuller Warren both received a high volume of telegrams and letters in protest of the murder of the civil rights activists in Mims, Florida. In New York City, a few weeks later on January 5, 1952, Jackie Robinson held a memorial service drawing approximately 3,000 mourners. The NAACP later held a memorial service, in March 1952, in the Madison Square Garden; their memorial was attended by 15,000 people, where speakers like Langston Hughes had come to give their respects.\n<poem>\nAnd this he says, our Harry Moore\nAs from the grave he cries\nNo bomb can kill the dreams I hold\nFor freedom never dies!”\n</poem>\n — Langston Hughes, (1951)\nIn 1952, the year following the Moore's murders, Harry was posthumously awarded the NAACP's Spingarn Medal. In 1999, the site of the Moore's home in Mims, Florida, where the bombing occurred became an Historical Heritage Landmark of the State of Florida. Five years later Brevard County's local government christened the \"Harry T. and Harriette Moore Memorial Park and Interpretive Center\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58090842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58090842", "title": "Natchez Fire", "text": "Natchez Fire\n\nThe Natchez Fire was a wildfire that burned near the California and Oregon Border in Siskiyou County, California, in the United States. The Natchez Fire began on July 15, 2018, due to lightning, and the fire burned a total of before it was fully contained on October 30, 2018. \n\nThe Natchez Fire ignited 8 miles north of Happy Camp on July 15, 2018, around 6:30 P.M. PDT, due to lightning. During the next couple of weeks, the Natchez Fire gradually expanded in size, reaching by July 31, with 15% containment.\n\nThe fire continued to burn into the month of August, while continuing to grow. On August 11, 2018, the fire had burned a total of and was 52% contained. By August 14, 2018, the fire had burned a total of and was 55% contained. The fire continued to grow in size during the next couple of weeks. On August 31, the Natchez Fire had burned and was 70% contained.\n\nDuring the first week of September, the Natchez Fire quickly expanded in size, due to a heat wave and dry conditions, reaching by September 8, while containment increased only slightly to 74%. Afterward, the Natchez Fire grew at a much slower pace, while firefighters continued making progress on containing the fire. By September 19, the Natchez Fire had reached , while containment increased to 84%. On September 25, the Natchez Fire grew to , while containment dropped to 82%. On September 28, the Natchez Fire had expanded to , while containment increased to 84%. By October 2, the Natchez Fire had grown to , while containment remained at 84%. Afterward, the Natchez Fire stopped growing in size while firefighters gradually increased the containment of the wildfire, with containment reaching 89% by October 7. On October 30, 2018, the Natchez Fire was finally 100% contained.\n\n"}
{"id": "42991619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42991619", "title": "National Anti-Bullying Centre", "text": "National Anti-Bullying Centre\n\nThe National Anti-Bullying Research and Resource Centre (ABC) is a research and resource facility at Dublin City University, Ireland. The Centre is normally referred to as the Anti-Bullying Centre or ABC.\n\nA centre dedicated to the study of bullying behaviour had previously existed at Trinity College Dublin where it was founded in 1996 by Professor Mona O'Moore at the School of Education, Trinity College Dublin. This Centre closed in 2011/12 upon the retirement of Prof. O'Moore from the full-time faculty at Trinity.\n\nIn January 2014, following the appointment of Prof. O'Moore as an adjunct Professor at Dublin City University, an Anti-Bullying Centre opened at Dublin City University where it is under the academic leadership of Dr. James O'Higgins Norman.\n\nIn May 2014, the Centre was re-launched as the National Anti-Bullying Research and Resource Centre by the Minister for Education & Skills Ruairí Quinn TD and the Tánaiste (Deputy Prime Minister) Éamon Gilmore TD at a ceremony in Dublin City University. The Minister also announced on the same day that his Department would provide funding to the Anti-Bullying Centre.\n\nThe aims of the Centre are:\n\nIn September 2014, the Centre hosted the 1st National Cyberbullying Conference at Dublin Castle. The conference was supported by the Government of Ireland and was attended by representatives from all of the major social networks.\n\nResearchers currently at the Centre undertook and published the first national studies on school, workplace, and homophobic bullying in Ireland and have contributed to ongoing initiatives to prevent and reduce bullying behaviour in schools, organisations and businesses including the Report of the Taskforce on Bullying in the Workplace (2000) and the National Action Plan on Bullying (2013).\n\nThe Centre's staff has received substantial funding from the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, the Department of Education and Skills, the Health & Safety Authority, the Irish Research Council, the Equality Authority and from the EU for research projects in the area of school bullying and violence. Staff at ABC have participated in more than 13 EU-funded research projects on bullying and cyberbullying prevention.\n\n"}
{"id": "33359094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33359094", "title": "Pelican Drop", "text": "Pelican Drop\n\nThe Pelican Drop is a New Year's Eve celebration that take place each year in downtown Pensacola, Florida. At the ceremony, a pelican, Pensacola's mascot, is dropped instead of the typical New Year's ball. Since 2008, The Pelican Drop has become a significant attraction in the area, drawing in crowds of up to 50,000 local residents, making it one of the largest events of its kind in the Central Time Zone.\n\nThe First Pelican Drop New Year's Celebration took place in 2008. The Pensacola News Journal released an article stating that the CRA (or Pensacola Community Redevelopment Agency) was working on making a new kind of New Year's Eve celebration. The paper said that the celebration will be held at the Plaza Ferdinand VII and will also be live on WEAR-TV; beginning with the 2017 celebration, events were carried in simulcast on WEAR's Web site. Almost 45,000 people showed up for the event, including residents \nof Mobile, Alabama (which hosts its own competing drop, a Moon Pie), Milton, Florida, Navarre, Florida,and Destin, Florida.\n\nThe pelican was made and designed by Emmett Andrews LLC. Made of polished aluminum and decorated with over 2,000 lights, the bird has a wingspan and is high.\n\n"}
{"id": "297699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297699", "title": "Rite", "text": "Rite\n\nA rite is an established, ceremonial, usually religious, act. Rites in this sense fall into three major categories:\n\nWithin the Catholic Church, \"rite\" often refers to what is also called a sacrament and respective liturgies based on liturgical languages and traditional local customs as well as the ceremonies associated with the sacraments. In Christian Catholicism, for example, the sacrament of Anointing of the Sick/Last Rites is one of the sacramental rites because they are administered to someone who is or was dying. The other are Penance and Eucharist (administered as Viaticum in the case of a dying person). Since the Second Vatican Council, anointing of the sick is administered to those who are seriously ill but not necessarily in immediate danger of death. Another example is the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults. The term \"rite\" became widely used after the Second Vatican Council. While \"rite\" is often associated when receiving a \"sacrament,\" it is technically incorrect to say that one received a \"rite\" because the sacrament is what is received while a rite is performed. The ritual consists of the prayers and actions that the minister of the sacrament performs when administering a sacrament. Therefore, it is incorrect to say that one has received \"the last rites\" as that person has really received \"the last sacraments\" by a minister following a ritual that has performed the \"sacramental rite.\"\n\nWithin both Catholicism and Orthodoxy, the term \"rite\" also refers to a body of liturgical tradition usually emanating from a specific center. Examples include the Roman Rite, the Byzantine Rite, and the Sarum Rite. Such rites may include various sub-rites. For example, the Byzantine Rite has Greek, Russian, and other ethnically-based variants.\n\nIn addition, the same term is applied to an autonomous particular Church within the Catholic Church associated with a particular liturgical tradition. Of these, the largest is the Latin Rite or Western Church. There are also several Eastern Catholic Churches which are the same catholic Church with distinct rites.\n\nWithin many Protestant Christian denominations, the word rite is used for important ceremonies that are not considered sacraments or ordinances. The 39 Articles of the Anglican Communion and the Articles of Religion of the Methodist Church state \"there are two Sacraments ordained of Christ our Lord in the Gospel, that is to say, Baptism and the Supper of the Lord\". As such, in the Anglican and Methodist traditions, the following are considered rites: \"confirmation, reconciliation (confessions of sins), matrimony, holy orders and anointing of the sick\". Similarly the \"rites of the Moravian Church are Confirmation, Marriage, and Ordination\". In the Lutheran tradition, Holy Baptism, Holy Eucharist, and Confession & Absolution are considered Lutheran sacraments, while Confirmation, Anointing of the Sick, Holy Matrimony, and Holy Orders are rites.\n\nIn North America, Freemasons have the option of joining the Scottish Rite or the York Rite, two appendant bodies that offer additional degrees to those who have taken the basic three.\n\n"}
{"id": "30747164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30747164", "title": "SEAL Team Six", "text": "SEAL Team Six\n\nThe United States Naval Special Warfare Development Group (NSWDG), commonly known as DEVGRU or SEAL Team Six, is the U.S. Navy component of the Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC). It is often referred to within JSOC as Task Force Blue. DEVGRU is administratively supported by Naval Special Warfare Command and operationally commanded by the Joint Special Operations Command. Most information concerning DEVGRU is classified, and details of its activities are not usually commented on by either the Department of Defense or the White House. Despite the official name changes, \"SEAL Team Six\" remains the unit's widely recognized moniker. It is sometimes referred to in the U.S. media as a Special Mission Unit.\n\nDEVGRU and its Army counterpart Delta Force are the United States military's primary counter-terrorism units. Although DEVGRU was created as a maritime counter-terrorism unit targeting high-value targets, it has become a multi-functional special operations unit with several roles that include hostage rescue, special reconnaissance, direct action, personal security, and other specialized missions.\n\nThe origins of DEVGRU are in SEAL Team Six, a unit created in the aftermath of Operation Eagle Claw. During the Iran hostage crisis in 1979, Richard Marcinko was one of two U.S. Navy representatives for a Joint Chiefs of Staff task force known as the TAT (Terrorist Action Team). The purpose of the TAT was to develop a plan to free the American hostages held in Iran. In the wake of the disaster at the Desert One base in Iran, the Navy saw the need for a full-time counter-terrorist unit, and tasked Marcinko with its design and development.\n\nMarcinko was the first commanding officer of this new unit. At the time there were two SEAL Teams. Marcinko named the unit SEAL Team Six in order to confuse Soviet intelligence as to the number of actual SEAL teams in existence. The unit's plankowners (founding members) were hand-picked by Marcinko from throughout the UDT/SEAL community. SEAL Team Six became the U.S. Navy's premier counter-terrorist unit. It has been compared to the U.S. Army's Delta Force. Marcinko held the command of SEAL Team Six for three years, from 1980 to 1983, instead of the typical two-year command in the Navy at the time. SEAL Team Six was formally created in October 1980, and an intense, progressive work-up training program made the unit mission-ready just six months later. SEAL Team Six started with 75 shooters. According to Marcinko, the annual ammunition training allowance for the command was larger than that of the entire U.S. Marine Corps. The unit has virtually unlimited resources at its disposal. In 1984, Marcinko and a dozen members of SEAL Team Six would go on to form \"Red Cell\", (also known as OP-06D), a special unit designed to test the security of American military installations.\n\nIn 1987, SEAL Team Six was dissolved. A new unit named the \"Naval Special Warfare Development Group\" was formed, essentially as SEAL Team Six's successor. Reasons for the disbanding are varied, but the name \"SEAL Team Six\" is often used in reference to DEVGRU.\n\nIn the early stages of creating SEAL Team Six, Marcinko was given six months to get SEAL Team 6 up and running, or the whole project would come to an end. This meant that there was a timing issue and Marcinko had little time to create a proper selection course, similar to that of Delta Force, and as a result hand-picked the first plank owners of the unit after assessing their Navy records and interviewing each man. It has been said that Marcinko regretted not having enough time to set up a proper selection process and course. Originally applicants only came from the east and west coast SEAL teams and the UDTs. Although much of the ST6/DEVGRU training pipeline is classified there are some requirements and training exercises that are public knowledge. The requirements to apply for DEVGRU states that applicants must be male and come from the SDV teams, the Navy explosive ordnance disposal teams or EODs and East and West Coast SEAL teams, be 21 years old or older, and have at least served two combat tours on their previous assignments. Although, due to the combat experience requirement, it is not uncommon for a candidate to be in his early 30s. Marcinko's criteria for recruiting applicants was combat experience so he would know they could perform under fire; language skills were vital, as the unit would have a worldwide mandate to communicate with the local population if needed; union skills, to be able to blend in as civilians during an operation; and finally SEAL skills. Members of SEAL Team Six were selected in part because of the different specialist skills of each man.\n\nCandidates must pass three days of physical and psychological testing that includes a Physical Screening Test (PST) where candidates must exceed the minimum requirements and perform at their highest level possible. Candidates are then interviewed by an oral review board to deem whether the candidate is suitable to undertake the selection phase. Those who pass the stringent recruitment and selection process will be selected to attend a six- to eight-month Operators Training Course. Candidates will screen with the unit's training wing known as \"Green Team\". The training course attrition rate is high, usually around 50 percent; during one selection course, out of the original 20 candidates, 12 completed the course. All candidates are watched closely by DEVGRU instructors and evaluated on whether they are suitable to join the individual squadrons. Howard E. Wasdin, a former member of SEAL Team Six said in a 2011 interview that 16 applied for SEAL Team Six selection course and two were accepted. Those who do not pass the selection phase are returned to their previous assignments and are able to try again in the future.\n\nLike all special operations forces units that have an extremely intensive and high-risk training schedule, there can be serious injuries and deaths. SEAL Team Six/DEVGRU has lost several operators during training, including parachute accidents and close-quarters battle training accidents. It is presumed that the unit's assessment process for potential new recruits is different from what a SEAL operator experienced in his previous career, and much of the training tests the candidate's mental capacity rather than his physical condition, as he will have already completed Basic Underwater Demolitions/SEAL or the Navy EOD training pipeline.\n\nCandidates are put through a variety of advanced training courses led by civilian or military instructors. These can include free-climbing, land warfare, advanced unarmed combat techniques, defensive and offensive advanced driving, advanced diving, communications and Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) training. Candidates are also taught how to pick locks on cars, doors, and safes. All candidates must perform at the top level during selection, and the unit instructors evaluate the candidate during the training process. Selected candidates are assigned to one of the Tactical Development and Evaluation Squadrons; the others are returned to their previous units. Unlike the other regular SEAL Teams, SEAL Team Six operators are able to go on to attend almost any other military course to receive further training depending on the unit's requirements.\n\nLike Delta Force, live fire marksmanship drills with live ammunition in both long range and close quarter battle drills are also done with hostage roles being played by other students to help build the candidates trust between each other.\n\nDEVGRU is divided into color-coded line squadrons:\n\nEach assault squadron is divided into three troops of enlisted SEALs, often called assaulters, usually led by a Commander (O-5). Each of these troops is commanded by a senior commissioned officer, which is usually a Lieutenant Commander (O-4). A troop chief also serves as an adviser to the troop commander and is the highest enlisted SEAL in the troop, usually a Master Chief Petty Officer (E-9). A DEVGRU troop is further divided into smaller teams of SEALs. These individual teams of assaulters are led by senior enlisted SEALs; usually a Senior Chief Petty Officer (E-8), sometimes a Chief Petty Officer (E-7). The rest of these teams are filled out with more Chief Petty Officers and Petty Officers First Class; each member with a respective role.\n\nEach assault squadron also has a specific nickname. Examples include Gold Squadron's Knights, Red Squadron's Indians, Blue Squadron's Pirates, Gray Squadron's Vikings, etc. The assault squadrons are supported by a variety of support personnel, including cryptologists, EOD technicians, dog handlers, and sometimes airmen from the United States Air Force 24th Special Tactics Squadron, the Air Force's JSOC element.\n\nAccording to the GAO report on special operations forces, in the fiscal year of 2014, DEVGRU had a total of 1,787 authorized positions, of which 1,342 are military and 445 are civilian.\n\nThe Department of Defense tightly controls information about DEVGRU, and refuses to comment publicly on the highly secretive unit and its activities. DEVGRU operators are granted an enormous amount of flexibility and autonomy. To conceal their identities, members only wear uniforms on combat deployments and extended training, preferring civilian clothing both on and off duty. When military uniforms are worn, they lack markings, surnames, or branch names. Civilian hair styles and facial hair are allowed to enable the members to blend in with different populations, and avoid recognition as military personnel.\n\nCommand of DEVGRU became a Captain's billet, following Marcinko's departure. Officers noted with a higher rank have since been promoted.\nDEVGRU's full mission is classified but is thought to include preemptive, pro-active counter-terrorist operations, counter-proliferation (efforts to prevent the spread of both conventional weapons and weapons of mass destruction), as well as the elimination or recovery of high-value targets (HVTs) from unfriendly nations. DEVGRU is one of a handful of U.S. Special Mission Units authorized the use of preemptive actions against terrorists and their facilities.\n\nWhen SEAL Team Six was first created in 1980 it was devoted exclusively to counter-terrorism with a worldwide maritime responsibility; its objectives typically included targets such as ships, oil rigs, naval bases, coastal embassies, and other civilian or military bases that were accessible from the sea or inland waterways. On certain operations small teams from SEAL Team Six were tasked with covertly infiltrating international high risk areas in order to carry out reconnaissance or security assessments of U.S. military facilities and embassies; and to give advice on improvements in order to prevent casualties in an event of a terrorist attack. SEAL Team Six was disbanded in 1987, and its role, minus non-CT ship-boarding which was given to the newly formed SEAL Team 8, given to the newly formed DEVGRU.\n\nSince the start of War on Terrorism, DEVGRU has evolved into a multi-functional special operations unit with a worldwide operational mandate. Such operations include the successful rescue of Jessica Buchanan and Poul Hagen Thisted, the attempted rescue of Linda Norgrove, the successful rescue of American doctor Dilip Joseph and in 1991, the successful recovery of Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and his family during a coup that deposed him.\n\nThe official mission of the currently operating Naval Special Warfare Development Group mission is \"to provide centralized management for the test, evaluation, and development of equipment technology and Techniques, Tactics and Procedures for Naval Special Warfare\".\n\nDEVGRU and the Army's Delta Force train and deploy together on counter-terrorist missions usually as part of a joint special operations task force (JSOTF).\n\nThe Central Intelligence Agency's highly secretive Special Activities Division (SAD) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group (SOG) often works with, and recruits from, DEVGRU. The combination of these units led ultimately to the killing of Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in Operation Neptune Spear.\n\nThe Naval Criminal Investigative Service opened an investigation into the disappearance of $30,000 after the successful rescue operation of Captain Phillips of the \"Maersk Alabama\" by DEVGRU; the SEALs were polygraphed as part of the investigation and a Navy officer said that: \"The case was ultimately closed without evidence of wrongdoing.\"\n\nA joint investigation by the British and American governments into the failed hostage rescue operation which was led by DEVGRU that resulted in the death of the British aid worker Linda Norgrove concluded that Norgrove was accidentally killed by a grenade thrown by a member of Seal Team Six. Navy SEALs did not immediately notify senior officers about throwing the grenade; this breached military law, and a number of sailors were disciplined.\nOn June 4, 2017, US Green Beret Staff Sergeant Logan Melgar was found murdered by strangulation in Mali, in the US embassy's housing he shared with a few other Special Operations members on duty in Mali. While no one is charged with the homicide, two unnamed members of DEVGRU who shortly after the murder were flown out of Mali back to the United States and placed on administrative leave are persons of interest to the Naval Criminal Investigative Service. By February 2018, the strangulation had prompted a broad internal military audit and investigation of SEAL Team 6. This investigation has named the two DEVGRU members who are persons of interest in the homicide and has initially focused on analyzing their conflicting statements regarding Melgar's death. While they had stated that Melgar had been intoxicated on the evening of his death, he was determined to have no drugs or alcohol in his system when he died. Melgar was further determined to have had his throat and upper body mutilated in an apparent attempt at a tracheotomy. The two DEVGRU members have stated that they found Melgar unconscious and not breathing and that they tried to perform an emergency tracheotomy on him. One of the DEVGRU members has subsequently stated that he accidentally choked Melgar during a practice match. A continued focus of the investigation is allegations that Melgar had discovered that the two DEVGRU members had stolen cash earmarked for paying local informants and that he had told the two that he would report that. The two DEVGRU members deny this allegation.\n\nIn November 2018, two Navy Seals, Petty Officer Anthony E. DeDolph and Chief Petty Officer Adam C. Matthews, along with two still unidentified Marine Raiders were charged with felony murder of Logan Melgar, and other crimes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6101768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6101768", "title": "Shalako", "text": "Shalako\n\nShalako is a series of dances and ceremonies conducted by the Zuni people at the winter solstice, typically following the harvest. The Shalako ceremony and feast has been closed to non-native peoples since 1990.\n\nThe Shálako festival, on or about December 1, is a remarkable sacred drama, enacted in the open for the double purpose of invoking the divine blessing upon certain newly built houses, and of rendering thanks to the gods for the harvests of the year. The exact date of the Shálako is fixed each year by a formula of the Zuni Bow priests, which traditionally was the 49th day past the tenth full moon, but has been altered to the weekend nearest the 49th day past the tenth full moon, as many Zuni people work away from their Reservation at jobs that do not allow them weekdays off. The official publication of the date is not made until the eighth evening before the event. The immediate effect of this announcement, which is given out by ten people in the principal plazas, is to quicken the easy-going life of the old pueblo into a bustle of industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "8936130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8936130", "title": "Spend Spend Spend", "text": "Spend Spend Spend\n\nSpend Spend Spend is a musical with a book and lyrics by Steve Brown and Justin Greene and music by Brown. The musical is inspired by the life of Viv Nicholson.\n\n\"Spend Spend Spend\" premiered in 1998 at the West Yorkshire Playhouse and won the Barclays Theatre Award for Best Musical of the Year. The production starred Rosie Ashe and Nigel Richards. After a week of previews, the West End production, directed by Jeremy Sams and choreographed by Craig Revel Horwood, opened on 12 October 1999 at the Piccadilly Theatre, where it ran until 5 August 2000. The original cast included Barbara Dickson, Steven Houghton, and Rachel Leskovac. The original London production was arranged by the Musical Director, Dane Preece. Shortly after closing in London, the production, with most of the original cast, went on a UK Tour. The Musical Director for the tour was Steve Hill and the role of Keith was played by Grant Anthony.\n\nOn 8 July 2009 the Watermill Theatre, Newbury, presented a revival of the musical, directed by Craig Revel Horwood, with Karen Mann as the older Viv, Kirsty Hoiles as young Viv and Greg Barnett as Keith. The production next had a 7-week tour across the country, beginning 28 September 2010 to 9 November 2010. It was awarded the 2010 TMA award for Best Musical and Kirsty Hoiles (young Viv) was awarded the TMA award for Best Supporting Actress in a Musical.\n\nIn 1961, Yorkshire housewife Viv Nicholson won £152,319 in the football pools. When a reporter asked her what she planned to do with her new fortune, she replied, \"I'm going to spend, spend, spend!,\" which is exactly what she did. Her rags-to-riches-to-rags-again story takes her through five husbands, expensive sports cars, fur coats, and jewelry, a battle with alcohol, and bankruptcy as, unable to cope with her new-found wealth and fame, she rapidly spirals downward. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3263044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3263044", "title": "The Body Snatcher (film)", "text": "The Body Snatcher (film)\n\nThe Body Snatcher is a 1945 horror film directed by Robert Wise based on the short story \"The Body Snatcher\" by Robert Louis Stevenson. The film's producer Val Lewton helped adapt the story for the screen, writing under the pen name of \"Carlos Keith\". The film was marketed with the tagline \"The screen's last word in shock sensation!\" The frequent mentions of Burke, Hare, and Dr. Knox, all refer to the West Port murders in 1828.\n\nIt was the last film to feature both Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi.\n\nMrs. Marsh (Rita Corday) visits the house of Dr. Wolfe \"Toddy\" MacFarlane (Henry Daniell), seeking a cure for her paraplegic daughter Georgina (Sharyn Moffett). MacFarlane suggests surgery for the girl, but insists that he cannot perform the operation himself because his teaching position keeps him too busy. Later that night, MacFarlane's prize student Donald Fettes (Russell Wade) tells the doctor he cannot afford to continue his studies. MacFarlane offers Fettes a job as a lab assistant to help with an experiment he is planning. \n\nFettes is awakened in the middle of the night by John Gray (Boris Karloff), a cab driver and graverobber, who has arrived to deliver a corpse to MacFarland to dissect in one of his classes. Later, MacFarlane and Fettes go to an inn and run into Gray, who threatens to reveal MacFarlane's \"dark secret\" if he doesn't operate on Georgina. MacFarlane initially agrees, but later tries to renege on his promise. Fettes asks Gray to get another human specimen so that Georgina might have hope of walking again. After visiting Gray, Fettes gives a coin to a blind street singer (Donna Lee). He is shocked when Gray arrives later at the lab with a corpse that resembles the singer.\n\nFettes shows MacFarlane the body and accuses Gray of murder. The conversation is overheard by Joseph (Bela Lugosi), MacFarland's other assistant. MacFarlane tells Fettes that he could be arrested as an accomplice and advises him not to notify the police. Georgina recovers from the surgery, but she is still unable to walk. MacFarlane is tortured by his failure, and goes to the inn to drown his sorrows. Gray shows up and torments him about their \"secret\".\n\nJoseph visits Gray and attempts to blackmail him to keep quiet about his body snatching operation. Gray tells Joseph the story of the infamous murderers Burke and Hare, and reveals that they procured bodies for Dr. Knox, MacFarlane's mentor. Gray promises to pay Joseph, but chokes him to death when the other man allows him to get too close. Later, he delivers the body to MacFarlane's lab as a \"gift\". Meg Camden (Edith Atwater), MacFarlane's housekeeper and secret wife, tells Fettes that Gray admitted to robbing graves during the Burke and Hare trial in order to shield the real perpetrator - MacFarlane. Later, MacFarlane offers Gray money to stop tormenting him. Gray refuses to take the bribe, and vows that the doctor will never be rid of him. Enraged, MacFarlane beats Gray to death.\n\nFettes meets with Mrs. Marsh and Georgina. The girl hears horses nearby and stands up to see them; the operation was a success after all. Fettes rushes to tell MacFarlane the good news, but Meg tells him that the doctor has gone to another town to sell Gray's horse and carriage.\n\nFettes finds MacFarlane at a tavern. He tells Fettes that he plans to rob a freshly dug grave. Fettes sees no alternative than to assist the doctor, and they load the unearthed corpse onto Gray's carriage. As they drive through a storm, MacFarlane hears Gray taunting him from the back of the carriage. He stops the carriage and orders Fettes to check the body. When he uncovers the body and shines a light on it, MacFarlane sees Gray's corpse. The horses, spooked by the storm, bolt. The carriage breaks loose and falls over a cliff with MacFarlane and the corpse. Fettes looks down at the wreck and sees MacFarlane's corpse, next to that of a woman.\n\n\n\"The Body Snatcher\" was one of three films that Boris Karloff did with RKO Radio Pictures from 1945 to 1946, which were produced by Val Lewton. The other two films were \"Isle of the Dead\" and \"Bedlam\". Karloff, who had achieved stardom with \"Frankenstein\", left Universal Pictures, feeling that the Frankenstein franchise had run its course. In a 1946 interview with Louis Berg of the \"Los Angeles Times\", Karloff called \"House of Frankenstein\" (the last installment of the Frankenstein franchise) a 'monster clambake,' with everything thrown in: Frankenstein, Dracula, a hunchback, and a 'man-beast' that howled in the night. It was too much. Karloff thought it was ridiculous and said so.\n\nIn the same interview, Karloff stated that Lewton was the man who rescued him from the living dead and restored his soul.\n\nThe production of the film took place around the same time as \"Isle of the Dead\", with Lewton having a role as a screenwriter in both films. Lewton, along with British screenwriter Philip MacDonald, adapted the short story \"The Body Snatcher\" by Robert Louis Stevenson. Lewton wrote under the pen name \"Carlos Keith\". Bela Lugosi, who became famous with another Universal classic, \"Dracula\", also signed a deal with RKO. Lewton and MacDonald eventually wrote a small role for Lugosi; it became the last film Lugosi and Karloff made together.\n\nRobert Wise (later best-known for his work in \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\", \"West Side Story\", \"The Sound of Music\", and \"The Sand Pebbles\") was assigned to direct the film. \n\nPrincipal photography of \"The Body Snatcher\" ran October 25-November 17, 1944. During filming, there was tension between Lewton and executive producer Jack L. Gross. Gross sent Lewton into production of the film with a low budget. \n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 81% based on , with a weighted average rating of 6.8/10.\nThe film was released for the first time on Region 1 DVD in 2005, along with \"I Walked with a Zombie\", as part of the \"Val Lewton Horror Collection\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8354341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8354341", "title": "The Robonic Stooges", "text": "The Robonic Stooges\n\nThe Robonic Stooges is a Saturday morning animated series featuring the characters of The Three Stooges in new roles as clumsy crime-fighting bionic superheroes. It was developed by Norman Maurer and produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions from September 10, 1977 to March 18, 1978 on CBS and contained two segments: \"The Robonic Stooges\" and \"Woofer & Wimper, Dog Detectives\".\n\n\"The Robonic Stooges\" originally aired as a segment on \"The Skatebirds\" from September 10, 1977 to January 21, 1978 on CBS. When CBS canceled \"The Skatebirds\" in early 1978, the trio was given their own half-hour timeslot which ran for 16 episodes.\n\nMoe, Larry and Curly are superheroes who fight crime with their special bionic powers and are given assignments via film projector from their frustrated boss Agent 000 (pronounced \"Oh-Oh-Oh\") who runs the Superhero Employment Agency.\n\nSince all of the original Three Stooges had died when production began (Moe Howard and Larry Fine had both died in 1975, Shemp Howard died in 1955 and Curly Howard died in 1952), other voice actors were used to impersonate them, mostly veteran voice actors from other Hanna-Barbera productions. Paul Winchell voiced Moe, Joe Baker voiced Larry, and Frank Welker voiced Curly (Welker had previously used his Curly impression for the titular character in \"Jabberjaw\"). Unlike cartoon series produced by Hanna-Barbera in the 1970s, \"The Robonic Stooges\" did not contain a laugh track.\n\nThis was the second animated adaptation of the Three Stooges, the first being Cambria Studios' \"The New Three Stooges\" in 1965, which used the actual Stooges' voices. Norman Maurer, who was married to Moe Howard's daughter and had acted as the Stooges' agent during their lifetimes, worked on both series. The Stooges had previously appeared in another Hanna Barbera-created series: \"The New Scooby-Doo Movies\" (1972), this time as Moe, Larry and Curly Joe. With the deaths of Fine and Howard in 1975, other actors were engaged to voice the roles of Moe and Larry; neither of the surviving \"third\" Stooges, Joe Besser or Joe DeRita, were asked to participate (even though Besser was working for Hanna-Barbera for other series at the time).\n\n\"The Robonic Stooges\" episodes were occasionally seen between shows as interstitial segments on Boomerang.\n\n\nAired as part of \"The Skatebirds\":\n\nAired as part of \"The Three Robonic Stooges\" (two shorts aired per 30-minute episode):\n\n"}
{"id": "5116929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5116929", "title": "Thomas Ewing Jr.", "text": "Thomas Ewing Jr.\n\nThomas Ewing Jr. (August 7, 1829 – January 21, 1896) was an attorney, the first chief justice of Kansas and leading free state advocate, Union Army general during the American Civil War, and two-term United States Congressman from Ohio, 1877–1881. He narrowly lost the 1880 campaign for Ohio Governor.\n\nEwing was born in Lancaster, Ohio. His father, Thomas Ewing Sr., was a very successful lawyer and Whig politician at the national level. Although Ewing Sr. was an Irish Protestant, his wife, Maria Wills Boyle, converted the family to Roman Catholicism. The younger Ewing was a foster brother of William Tecumseh Sherman and became his brother-in-law when Sherman married Ewing's sister, Eleanor \"Ellen\" Ewing Sherman. Two other brothers were also Civil War generals—Charles Ewing and Hugh Boyle Ewing. Thomas Ewing Jr.'s relationship with Sherman was close throughout their lives.\n\nThomas Ewing Jr. began his education at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. He left Brown University to become private secretary to President Zachary Taylor from 1849 to 1850 (concurrent with his father's term in Taylor's Cabinet). He then studied and practiced law from 1852 to 1856 in Cincinnati, Ohio. He graduated from Cincinnati Law School in 1855.\n\nEwing married Ellen Cox of Piqua, Ohio, on January 18, 1856. He moved to Leavenworth, Kansas in 1856, where he became a member of the Leavenworth Constitutional Convention of 1858. He was a stockholder and leading advocate of a transcontinental railroad through his early ownership of the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad, which later was sold to other investors and became part of the Union Pacific Railroad. A moderate on the issue of slavery, his efforts to defeat the Lecompton Constitution helped Kansas enter the Union as a free state but without the bloody fight against the federal government advocated by other free state men like James H. Lane and John Brown He was a delegate from Kansas to the Peace Conference of 1861 and was elected the first chief justice of the new state of Kansas in 1861.\n\nEwing resigned his judgeship in 1862 to enter the military. He recruited the 11th Kansas Infantry and was elected as its first colonel. His regiment fought in James G. Blunt's division in the battles of Old Fort Wayne, Cane Hill, and Prairie Grove.\n\nAlthough he possessed no military experience before the civil war, Ewing was promoted to brigadier general on March 13, 1863, for his leadership at the Battle of Prairie Grove. He was given command of the District of the Border, which comprised Kansas and western Missouri. Ewing was responsible for General Order № 11, issued in retaliation for William Quantrill's raid on Lawrence, Kansas, where 450 raiders shot and killed 150 men and boys. The order commanded that civilians with southern sympathies living in four Missouri counties be expelled, and if they did not leave voluntarily, they would be forced out by Union cavalry. While this was part of an effort to suppress bushwhackers in the region it left a black mark on his legacy.\n\nIn September and October 1864, as deputy commander of the St. Louis district under William Rosecrans, Ewing played a major part in thwarting Sterling Price's invasion of Missouri by commanding a successful defense at Fort Davidson at Pilot Knob, Missouri. His command of 1500 heavily outnumbered soldiers (900 effectives) and a few black civilians fought off repeated attacks from a force of about 15,000 Confederates, buying additional time for the Union army to strengthen the defenses around St. Louis. Instead of surrendering, Ewing and his men successfully eluded Price's force during the night and fought a fighting withdrawal to Rolla, Missouri. On February 23, 1865, Ewing resigned to return to civilian life, tendering his resignation directly to his good friend, the President, a month before Lincoln's assassination. On February 24, 1866, President Andrew Johnson nominated Ewing for appointment to the brevet rank of major general of volunteers to rank from March 13, 1865 and the U.S. Senate confirmed the nomination on May 4, 1866.\n\nAlthough a staunch friend and ally of Abraham Lincoln, when Edwin Stanton engaged in a post-assassination flap with Ewing's brother-in-law William T. Sherman over final surrender terms to the Southern armies, Ewing agreed to represent two of John Ford's (of Ford's theater) employees in the Lincoln conspiracy trials. Through Orville Browning, Ewing's Washington law partner, Dr. Samuel Mudd's family also sought Ewing's legal help. Ewing also represented Samuel Arnold and Edmund Spangler during the trial. Ewing's efforts kept all three men from the gallows, but other conspirators were hanged. For their roles in the assassination, Mudd, Arnold and Spangler were sentenced to federal prison at Fort Jefferson in the Dry Tortugas off Key West, Florida.\n\nFrom 1865 to 1870, Ewing practiced law in Washington, D.C., helping southern interests with his influence in the Johnson Administration. The Ewing family was heavily involved in defending Andrew Johnson against radical impeachment efforts. He declined President Johnson's offers for him to become the Secretary of War during the Tenure in Office crisis. EWing successfully lobbied the key vote against the impeachment of Andrew Johnson when he convinced his old comrade in arms, Edmund G. Ross of Kansas, to vote against impeachment. Ewing also was successful in obtaining a pardon for Mudd at the end of Johnson's term.\n\nIn 1870, he returned to his native Lancaster, Ohio, where he practiced for the next decade and attempted several business investments in railroads and telegraph companies. Ewing was a member of the Ohio state Constitutional Convention of 1873 – 74, and represented his district in the 45th and 46th Congresses from 1877 until 1881. He prepared the bill establishing a Bureau of Labor Statistics, opposed the presence of U.S. soldiers at election polling places, and favored the re-monetization of silver and the continuation of the use of Greenback currency, becoming one of the leading national spokesmen for the Greenback Party.\n\nIn 1880, Ewing was defeated for election for Governor of Ohio as the Democratic candidate in a close election. There is scholarly controversy whether the use of George Caleb Bingham's painting General Order № 11 in the anti-Ewing campaign made the difference in the election.\n\nOn March 3, 1881, Ewing closed his second term as representative in Congress and moved to New York to resume his law career. He never ran for office again.\n\nEwing was founder and first president of the Ohio Society of New York, a trustee of Ohio Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home (1874–78), and a trustee of Ohio University (1878–83). He served as Vice President of the Cincinnati Law School in 1881. Ewing made a notable address before the Marietta Centennial Convention of 1887, and one before the Kansas state bar association in 1890. He also contributed an article entitled \"The Struggle for Freedom in Kansas\" to \"The Cosmopolitan\" in May 1894. Brown University, by special vote in 1894, gave him the bachelor's degree dating back to the class of 1856. Georgetown College gave him the degree of LL.D. in 1870. Ewing was killed when struck by a New York City omnibus in 1896. He is buried in the Oakland Cemetery in Yonkers, New York.\n\n\n\n Retrieved on 2008-02-12\n"}
{"id": "28205854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28205854", "title": "Tibbits Opera House", "text": "Tibbits Opera House\n\nTibbits Opera House is the second-oldest theatre in Michigan, built in 1882.\n\nBecause Coldwater was on the main railway between Detroit and Chicago, news traveled from cities where entertainment and cultural activities were already well established. As an area with plenty of lakes and forested parks, Coldwater also attracted city folk as a resort destination. In 1882, when the theatre was built, Coldwater was a day's trip from either Detroit or Chicago, which resulted in Coldwater's becoming a natural stopping point for visitors and theatre performers traveling the byway. Accordingly, Coldwater residents developed a strong interest in art, culture and literature.\n\nBarton S. Tibbits, the mayor of Coldwater at the time, accepted a challenge to build an opera house in Coldwater. Art Gallery owner H.C. Lewis first proposed that he and Tibbits fund and build an opera house in response to pressure from local newspapers with each man raising $8,000 for the venture, but Lewis soon backed down. Tibbits forged ahead alone, declaring he would \"build an opera house if it 'bust' my factory\", referring to his cigar business in town.\n\nAt the dedication of the theatre, Tibbits offered two reasons for building the theatre. To a gathered audience, he said,\"Through two motives I was stimulated to make this investment. The first was to erect a monument to my memory that every man, woman and child in Coldwater would appreciate. Second, I would show the unhappy dissatisfied portion of our community that I was not selfish, but ready and willing to do anything in my power to beautify and ornament our city. The old time worn saying that Coldwater is behind the times, and has no respectable place of amusement, tonight passes into oblivion, and with more pleasure than I am able to express I present for your inspection this evening a theatre unequaled in any city the size of Coldwater.\"\n\nThe \"Coldwater Republican\" had this to say about Tibbits' efforts:\"For a long time a serious need has been felt in our city for a first-class place of amusement. Although Coldwater is the home of so many wealthy citizens, no one has seemed to possess sufficient courage to embark in so hazardous an undertaking until Mr. B. S. Tibbits, with his accustomed energy and \"push\" which has accomplished so much in other directions, took the matter in hand and put into execution the hopes and wishes of those who, although acknowledging the need, dared not venture to undertake so great a responsibility, and the result is a beautiful building, an ornament to our city of which we may justly be proud, and an honor to Mr. Tibbits that will endure after the curtain has fallen on the last act in the drama of his life.\" Although later in life he considered the marvelous opera house his financial downfall, his prophetic words that his gift to the community would make his name well known far beyond his time as one of Coldwater's generous patriarchs has surely come to pass.\n\nTibbits himself was described by one later owner of Tibbits, Dennis Vanes, as \"the greatest 'pusher' in Michigan.\" He added, \"Mr. Tibbits was a hustler by nature, broad minded and liberal and always ready to help the needy and suffering. He was outspoken in his sentiments and sometimes gave offense where none was intended.\" Barton was the son of Allen Tibbits, one of Coldwater's founders. After returning to Coldwater after the Civil War to start his tobacco and cigar business, Tibbits found himself involved in a variety of local projects and buildings \"including the skating rink, cart factory, and oil stove industry. He even purchased a number of steamboats to navigate the local lakes.\" According to Tibbits himself, the opera house was one of the costliest projects of his career. He stated, \"I attribute to this enterprise the Opera House my downfall, and the sacrifice of a business, which had I been selfish, would today have made me a millionaire.\" Indeed, the venture broke Tibbits financially by the end of his life.\n\nTibbits hired Mortimer Smith, designer of the Detroit Grand Opera House to manifest his vision. The \"Coldwater Republican\", the newspaper of the time, declared \"the beautiful theatre will be second to none in the state except in size.\" The site chosen for the theatre was a plot of land on S. Hanchett street, just off the city's busiest street, Chicago Street, and nearby one of Tibbit's own cigar factories. Coldwater itself was known for its manufacture of cigars and horse breeding. Excavation began Wednesday, November 23, 1881, and the theatre opened almost a year later, September 21, 1882. In the opinion of the \"Coldwater Republican\", Tibbits Opera House was \"one of the safest and most stable structures in Southern Michigan.\"\n\nTibbits Opera House greeted its first opening night audience on September 21, 1882. After parking their horses and buggies at the Livery Stable, theatre patrons, dressed in their finest, entered the town's new treasure under the gaze of a gathered crowd. They were welcomed by Barton S. Tibbits, and then ushered into the seating area. Behind the closed curtain, actors and crew waited to present \"Maid of Arran\". After remarks by local dignitaries, Tibbits was summoned onstage with \"tumultuous applause.\" According to the \"Coldwater Republican\", the performance wasn't as impressive as the opera house. \"The song and dance might have been omitted with advantage\" sums up the newspaper's account.\n\nThe opera houses of the 1800s were the community gathering places for town meetings, local performers, and whatever touring performers passed through. Many opera houses of the era occupied second or third stories of retail buildings. The names of these buildings, \"opera houses\", though suggestive of a high form of art were named to associate the buildings with the grand style of theatres in Europe. They were not about opera however.\n\nPerforming acts and theatre companies toured, often with a repertoire of several plays, musicians, and novelty acts. As the touring became more organized theatre circuits developed with performers moving from city to city. Shows warmed up on their way to New York City and Broadway or followed a certain pattern across the nation. By the early 20th century, vaudeville theatres were being built across the United States to host these shows.\n\nAfter a magnificent opening costing $25 a seat (when eggs sold for a dime a dozen!) Tibbits enjoyed some grand years, hosting a variety of these kinds of diverse productions. All in all, the opera house hosted 111 plays during Tibbits' management, the majority of which was comedy. Dramas also hit the stage such as the Shakespeare favorites Richard III, Romeo and Juliet, and Macbeth. Also popular was the oft performed Uncle Tom's Cabin, which nonetheless drew heavy criticism from local reviewers. The \"Courier\" lamented \"We knew it would come sooner or later, but have prayed that the calamity might be averted. Our prayers have been in vain and we will have to submit to the inevitable.\"\n\nYet theatre was only one of a large variety of events performed in Tibbits. The stage was the perfect forum for public speeches and lectures. Such lectures covered topics as Edwin Lee Brown's \"cruelty to animals\", Ida Hulten's \"What Shall We Do To Be Saved?\" lectures on reformed outlaws, the arctic, and spiritualism. Allen Tibbits, Barton's father, even offered a lecture called \"The Origin of the Aborigines of North America.\" The opera house was a convenient place for various political speeches as well.\n\nThe opera house hosted a litany of other events, each in a category of its own. Audiences enjoyed trained dog shows, wrestling matches, Humpty Dumpty Vaudeville and Variety shows consisting of acrobatics, juggling, and farce, the Boston Operatic Minstrels and stereopticon shows. Locals shared their abilities through talent shows and poetry readings. The site was used for community events other than performances such as high school commencements, dancing parties, and masquerade parties. As one of the more seemingly random public events, Tibbits Opera House hosted a reception for a man found not-guilty of arson charges.\n\nDespite such a variety of events hosted in the opera house and the diverse constituency that utilized Tibbits on a regular basis, from the outset Coldwater's gem may have been too big to truly thrive financially in such a small community. In 1885 due to declining attendance and Barton S. Tibbits' own financial difficulties, the opera house faced the very real possibility of being turned into a roller mill. The local community however had become too invested in the theatre to let it go. Carolyn Gillespie has noted that \"although a privately owned theatre, the Tibbits functioned more like a public institution.\" Thus the community, with the help of the local press, launched the first of what would be a long string of unrelenting attempts to save the theatre.\n\nIn 1885 Joseph Henning, a German saloon-keeper, answered the community's call to action and purchased the opera house for $13,000, just over half the original cost of $25,000. While several individuals assumed management duties throughout Henning's tenure, one of the biggest surprises was his teenage daughter Huldah Henning who by 1891 was managing the theatre on her own, signing her father's name since many performers would not accept a female manager. Not only was a female opera house manager unusual, but the \"Courier\" claimed that Huldah was \"probably the youngest Opera House manager in the country and the only successful female one.\"\n\nHenning was willing to try some new things to spur business for the opera house. He transformed the front part of the basement into a restaurant and saloon and even built an -long bowling alley. In 1891 the saloon was turned into a tea room offering ice cream, cold lunches, and lemonade, which Henning's wife and daughters staffed. Henning also tried to improve the quality of theatrical circuits that came to perform at the opera house, but frequent cancelations and financial difficulties once again threatened to close Tibbits.\n\nA number of solutions were proposed for the theatre. Some suggested that the building be used as a Town Hall and council room. Others proposed a beer garden with variety shows. Thespians who wanted the original purpose of the building to be preserved favored the establishment of a stock company to manage the finances. None of these ideas came to fruition however, and Henning sputtered from one year to the next barely making ends meet.\n\nIf the diversity of productions during the Tibbits Era was broad, it was even more so during the Henning years. Theatrical productions included such genres as Irish comedy, combination plays, repertory companies, drama, opera, and operetta. Comedies began to shift toward vaudeville-type performances in which \"the performers became more important than the play\", with play reviews focusing more on \"the actors' songs, dances and acrobatic skills rather than on the play itself\" Uncle Tom's Cabin companies continued to tour, trying to outdo each other with the most sensational stage elements. Set designers pushed the limits with special effects creating a rainstorm on stage with actual water and even pushing the safety limit by lighting part of the stage set in \"The Streets of New York\" on fire. Such efforts were part of a theatrical movement toward \"naturalness\" and \"realism\" on stage. In \"The Police Patrol\", a scene depicted the interior of a police patrol barn with horses in stalls. Once the police alarm sounded, the horses were harnessed and dashed off stage in a matter of seconds. Such was the extent to which performers pushed the element of Realism.\n\nThe number of lectures hosted at Tibbits picked up during the Henning years in part because for a time, the YMCA sponsored various lecture series. Topics ranged from the problems of the working man hosted by National Assembly of Knights of Labor representative R. F. Trevellick, C. E. Bolton's \"Russia and the Romanoffs\", a lecture by Robert McIntyre on military life in the Post Civil War South, George Kennan's \"Camp Life in Eastern Siberia\", topics ranging from love and marriage to prison life, Paul B. DuChailler's prohibitionist lecture, George R. Wendling's discussion of \"Saul of Tarsus\", lectures on various world geographies, and even one called \"Old Ocean, Our Slave and Master\", by Prof. Juno B. Demotte. Perhaps the biggest draw came from Robert G. Ingersoll who presented a lecture on Abraham Lincoln, attracting audiences from neighboring counties who flocked to listen to his \"matchless oratory and brilliant word-painting\" Such events not only made Tibbits a place of entertainment, but one of education as well.\n\nSpeaking events were not only meant to inform, but also to persuade. Such was assuredly the purpose of a large number of political speeches and rallies during the Henning years. These events, generally always for Republican causes and candidates, sported rallies with bands, fireworks, and speeches. Two governors even spoke at Tibbits: Gov. Alger in 1885 and Gov. Luce in 1890.\n\nYet Tibbits was an entertainment center first and foremost, and the Henning years made a bid to outdo the Tibbits Era in wild, extravagant shows. The opera house hosted everything from boxing matches featuring the likes of John L. Sullivan, to trained horses and mules, a presentation by women who claimed to read minds, and even camel rides. A group called the \"Fat Men's Club\" entertained the crowd with \"singing, dancing and acrobatic performance.\" The opera house even hosted a company called \"The County Fair\" which \"featured a horse race with three Kentucky thoroughbred horses ridden by professional jockeys over a three-quarter-mile course in full view of the audience.\" It is safe to assume that such an even was not hosted in the theatre itself. One comedy company went so far as to award a winning raffle ticket holder with a Jersey cow. Such a prize was of a very different nature than the winnings would be for modern Tibbits raffle winners.\n\nTibbits hosted a number of musical performances during the Henning Era as well. Such shows included \"The Royal Spanish Troubadors\", the \"Boston Symphony Orchestral Club\", the \"Michigan University Glee and Banjo Club\", the \"Swedish National Octet\" which made two appearances, and the \"Harvard Quartette.\" Minstrel groups also took to the stage, although these groups had more of a circus feel to them rather than being strictly musical performances. Such shows included bike acts, juggling, club-swinging, and cornet playing. One show in particular, \"Duncan Clark's Lady Minstrels and New Arabian Nights\" reportedly pushed the limits of Coldwater's conservative social mores with one reviewer commenting, \"…Seated upon the stage were eight females, scantily dressed.…There was nothing, save perhaps a highland fling, that merited any commendation. The singing was insipid, the marching by the amazons horribly executed, a little better than a flock of sheep…It is hoped this city will be spared the infliction of another like exhibition.\" Another reviewer called it \"the vilest show that ever appeared in Coldwater\", labeling the women as \"coarse brazen things.\"\n\nAdditional events included art exhibits, high school commencement exercises and reunions, a marionette show, and even a Sanitary Convention.\n\nEventually, Joseph Henning's financial struggles caught up to him, and he handed over the management of the theatre to John T. Jackson in 1894, who married Joseph's daughter, Huldah Henning. Together they managed the theatre with Henning ultimately handing over ownership of the theatre to John and Huldah in 1904. They owned and operated the theatre until its sale to Dennis Vanes in 1920. In later years Huldah's younger sister Josephine Henning Beyer had this to say about the Jackson management: \"Under the superb management of John T. Jackson, Coldwater received the joy of witnessing the very best of dramas, operas, bands and orchestras, and various other amusements in a then modern theatre.\" With knowledge and experience that previous managers lacked, Jackson, the \"first 'theatrical man' to manage the Tibbits\", was able to make the opera house financially successful for the first time and at a time when other opera houses were on the wane. Not only was he more successful at booking groups for performance, but in the 1890s, he also made improvements to the theatre to give it every modern advantage. Jackson redesigned scenery mechanisms, moved girders to add wing space, made ticket sales more efficient, installed electric fans for the comfort of the audience, added a sprinkler system and steel fire curtain, and updated the available electric current. He may be responsible for the theatre's longevity, since many other theatres were destroyed by fire.\n\nBased on the demands of performance companies who insisted on higher ticket prices to justify a trip to Coldwater, Jackson found it necessary to raise ticket prices for the first time. This was met with stiff opposition and criticism by reviewers from the two major local newspapers, \"The Courier\" and \"The Republican\". Although these newspapers were unable to deny Jackson's successful management of the theatre, the rift between the press and Tibbits increasingly began to widen. It was a third upstart newspaper, \"The Daily Reporter\", which defended Jackson's management. The only paper that survived was the one that tied its loyalty to the historic opera house.\n\nTibbits Opera House continued to host many of the same types of programming as under previous eras of management, while also bringing new variety to the stage as well. Theatre genres included melodramas, pastoral plays, Irish dramas, combination plays, farce and scenic attractions with Charles Hoyt and Clyde Fitch being the most popular playwrights. The farces tended to focus more on comic specialties rather than a developed plot. Regarding one such farce, \"At the French Ball\", a reviewer quipped, \"…The play is one of those kind of creations that one enjoys when he has had a good dinner and has nothing else to do but to gaze and laugh, and feel as Frenchy as possible.\" Another feature of comedy in this era is that it increasingly included elements of vaudeville with it becoming increasingly \"difficult to distinguish between pure comedy and variety entertainments.\" Famous melodramas during the period included \"The Convict's Daughter\" and \"Was She to Blame\". The number of Uncle Tom's Cabin companies, whose shows had apparently evolved into farce and comedy from the original serious tenor of the story, declined during this period. But taking the place of Uncle Tom's Cabin was the oft repeated \"Faust\", an opera which stressed scenery and electrical effects. The comic opera \"Wang\" featured one of the more absurd stunts performed on the Tibbits stage with a beer-drinking elephant that downed a four-gallon glass of brew. All in all, 376 plays were performed on the Tibbits stage in the decade from 1894 to 1904 alone, a large increase from the Barton S. Tibbits era.\n\nMusical performances continued to be popular as well with such groups as the \"Chicago Marine Band\", \"the Mexican Troubadours\", the \"Boston Ladies Symphony Orchestra\", and the very famous \"Sousa Band\" featuring John Philip Sousa, which performed twice in 1897 and in 1900. One musician, whose performance was inconvenienced by the failed shipment of his luggage and noisy child in the audience stormed off the stage. The Weekly Courier noted, \"He deliberately put his fiddle under his arm and left the stage like a crusty old curmudgeon.\" 1898 even featured an open-air concert from the Tibbits balcony, which was part of the original Tibbits façade.\n\nSpeeches and lectures continued to be a regular offering on the Tibbits stage. These included such lectures as Wallace Bruce's \"Philosophy of Wit and Humor\", Charles Hampton's \"Hard Times, Their Cause and Cure\", and Robert G. Ingersoll's \"Liberty of Man, Woman and Child.\" Capturing the rhetorical might of such lectures, the \"Weekly Courier\" described Judge Yaple's lecture \"Personality\", with the following words: \"A flowing crystal of words, here and there sharply broken into prisms of color, through which one caught a glimpse of crimson sunsets, the majesty of the mountains, the waving flowers of the meadow, the sweetness of the lilies of the valley, the stillness and solemnity of the leafy woods, the songs of birds, the celestial harmony of the starry heavens and the roar and thunder of a thousand Niagaras.\" A number of political speeches were offered as well by the likes of Gov. Rich, Senator J. C. Burrows, Gov. Shaw of Iowa, and Adeli Stevenson, a Vice Presidential nominee.\n\nVariety and Vaudeville continued to increase in popularity during the Jackson years with repeat performances by Humpty Dumpty companies, pantomime, and even magic shows. Shows also took an eerie turn with Anna Eva Fay's spiritualism performance, Mysterious Oneida's séance, and Hermann the Great's show on occult phenomena.\n\nAs technology improved, so also did the kinds of innovative performances Tibbits was able to put on stage. Such obscure technologies as cinematoscopes and luminere cinematographs offered the promise of displaying moving pictures. Kleine's Lumiere Cinematograph promised families the chance to see their sons in the Spanish–American War march toward the camera. Thomas Edison's Magniscope never reached Coldwater because it exploded en route, but his Animotoscope did. Eventually the Lyman H. Howe Company offered genuine moving pictures with its Vivograph Graphophone, which depicted a train ride through the Rocy Mountain's Frazer River Canyon. While such technologies had much to be desired in terms of quality, they were nonetheless important steps in the march toward the modern cinema.\n\nAlthough he had fallen on financial hard times, Barton S. Tibbits lived long enough to see his dream survive and prosper. It is only fitting that upon his death, his memorial service would be held on the very stage that he erected at his own sacrifice for the benefit of Coldwater and the wider community's citizens. His funeral was held August 27, 1889. The opera house also offered memorial services for President McKinley.\n\nIn 1919 Dennis and Estella Vanes purchased Tibbits and brought in movies. William J. Schulte bought the opera house in 1934 and physically \"modernized\" it into a movie theater. \n\nToday, Tibbits' youth and educational programming provides diverse opportunities for children and teens to participate in the arts. The programming includes productions in which the cast is made up of area children, touring arts presentations and Popcorn Theatre, and shows presented for children featuring members of Tibbits Summer Theatre's professional summer stock company.\n\nAdditionally, concerts offer a variety of touring performers. The Tibbits Art Gallery on the lower level, exhibits the work of many fine professional artists, local art groups and children as well as provides a yearly juried show for high school students. The Tibbits also holds an annual benefit auction that is as much a social event for the area as it is a fund-raiser. In addition to the programs sponsored by the Tibbits Opera Foundation, the theatre is used extensively by community groups presenting plays, musicals, concerts, dance programs, travelogues, pageants, and variety shows.\n\nDuring the rest of the year Tibbits presents an entertainment series featuring a variety of artists and styles. Recent performers have included Jeff Daniels, Melissa Manchester, and John Corbett. The effort is to bring quality arts performances and \"name\" entertainment to Branch County's rural community.\n\nFunding for the Tibbits Opera House comes primarily from memberships in the Tibbits Opera Foundation which are open to individual and corporate supporters.\n\nTibbits has long sought to present the best possible theatre for Branch County and the surrounding area. For 45 years since 1966, Tibbits Summer Theatre (TST) has brought professional theatre by stock company to Southwest Michigan and the tri-state area. USA Today has even named Tibbits one of \"10 great places to see the lights way off Broadway.\"\n\nYet the first two years of summer stock at the newly restored Tibbits, beginning in 1964, were produced by the American Theatre Festival. Mostly made up of theatre professionals from Indiana, the group presented a large season, with a new show opening every week. The comedy \"The Solid Gold Cadillac\" was the opening production, followed by nine other plays and one musical.\n\nBy 1966, Tibbits executive director Larry Carrico decided that Tibbits itself would produce the season. Musicals became the stock-in-trade and are still the staple of the Tibbits season. While Tibbits has produced the biggest names such as \"Show Boat\", \"South Pacific\", and \"Fiddler on the Roof\", it has also been instrumental in introducing audiences to lesser known gems such as \"Lucky Stiff\", \"Hi-Hat Hattie\", \"Baby\" and \"I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change.\"\n\nPreserved in the edition of September 19, 1882 of the \"Coldwater Republican\" newspaper is a richly detailed account of the building's physical description. From surviving photos and valuable accounts like these, we can re-imagine the experience of the original theatre patron. When Tibbits Opera House first opened, such a patron would have found the theatre to be nothing less than an architectural masterpiece.\nA patron's first experience of the theatre would have been a view of the building's façade. With its French \"Second Empire\" architectural design, the building was adorned with a -tall, slate-covered cupola with a flag staff mounted with a golden eagle statue. The tip of the dome itself towered above the pavement below. At the base of the cupola, one could behold an elegant bronze bust of Shakespeare, and below this still, inscribed in an arch above the front window was \"Tibbits Opera-House, 1882\", in gold leaf. The face itself consisted of iron work, red and black brick, and cut stone \"united in excellent taste.\" Three large windows allowed the glow of the sun to fill the theatre lobby, and below the middle window was an iron balcony furnished with glass globe lanterns.\n\nAs a patron entered the front doors, he would have found himself in a lobby with two stairwells leading up to the balcony, a manager's office, and a smoking room. Upon stepping through the terracotta leather covered and gold trimmed wooden doors into the auditorium, a patron would have been softly bathed in the shimmering glow of 94 gas lights. These lights, were crafted of polished brass and fitted with etched glass globes. The stage itself was equipped with 174 gas lights. All the lights in the entire theatre were controlled from the stage by means of a pipe system, allowing the stage manager to ignite or extinguish any or all of these brilliant lights in an instant. Beneath a dome resplendent with painted cherubs, a large chandelier, known as an \"Opal glass reflector\", scattered sparkles of reflected light over all. Elegant red Brussels' carpet softened patrons' steps, and grand opera chairs, upholstered in dark Cardinal plush awaited to seat them. These chairs were engraved with the monogram, B.S.T., Barton Tibbits' initials, and many of these chairs offered foot rests and hat and umbrella racks. Amazingly the auditorium originally held 1,000 seats for patrons. The seating area was divided into the parquet and the parquet circle – two separate areas on the floor in front of the orchestra pit. The walls of the auditorium, colored in cameo tints and dashes of cardinal, green, and gold color in \"conventional figures\" produced \"a warm, sunny effect and [gave] the auditorium a bright and airy appearance which is very pleasing.\" Dominating the scene was a grandly ornate -wide by -long proscenium stage with elegant opera boxes situated within the massive tin and plaster arch.\nThe stage itself had all the latest technological features. Scenery and curtains were shifted and moved via the rigging loft, and the stage itself included a \"paint-bridge and movable frame, five sets of grooves, trapdoors, and every modern convenience for producing all kinds of scenic effects.\" Additionally, speaking tubes and bell signals connected the stage manager with the box office, orchestra, and scene and trap shifters. The stage's collection of scenic backdrops was exhaustive and of the highest quality, and was a third larger than the Kalamazoo Opera House.\n\nThe boxes were draped with cardinal silk plush curtains, lined with gold, and trimmed with lace. In the center of the proscenium arch one beheld a portrait of William Shakespeare and above this portrait against a light-blue background was \"a group of cherubs, gracefully posed, representing music and the drama.\" Surrounding the main chandelier in the auditorium were more \"cunning little cherubs\" trailing garlands of flowers. In the words of the \"Coldwater Republican\", \"The delicate coloring of the background brings out the figures in strong relief so one may almost imagine them floating in space and inhale the odor of their fragrant burden.\" The cove around the auditorium also was decorated with \"vases of flowers, bouquets and conventional vines and figures.\" L. B. Chevelier, who painted many of the stage's backdrops, was the artistic genius behind such creations.\n\nRegarding the workmanship of the theatre, Carolyn Gillespie has observed that \"Tibbits was easily as elegant as the Second Olympic Theatre which was completed in St. Louis that same year.\" Elegance was paired with superb acoustics in the rendering of the stage and auditorium, and all in all, ironically the best visual description is perhaps given by the \"Republican\": \"It is impossible to give a description of the decorations which will convey an adequate idea of their beauty. They must be seen in order to be appreciated.\" Unfortunately for the modern patron, such an opportunity has long since died.\n\nAfter years of serving Branch County, toward the end of the Cinema Era the hall was slated for destruction. Tibbits was boarded up and scheduled to be razed by the end of the 1950s. Local supporters rallied support and raised funds to save the theatre. Many theatres were not as fortunate and were torn down in the name of urban renewal, but Tibbits Opera House was saved, thanks to concerned citizens who restored the interior to Victorian style. The Tibbits Opera Foundation and Arts Council was founded in 1963 and now operates the facility year-round as a community center for the arts.\n\nWith the turn of the century, the Tibbits Opera Foundation mobilized to mount yet another restoration campaign with fundraising and design development beginning in 2002. While the 1960s renovation was intended to save the theatre, the latest renovation effort is intended to return Tibbits to its original granduer. In the spring of 2006, the addition of a handicap accessible entrance and elevator onto the side of the theatre to make the theatre more accessible to all customers and patrons was completed. In February 2009, another phase of the restoration project was completed with the hoisting of the newly constructed cupola onto the theatre. With the raising of sufficient funds, Phase III, which is the restoration of the 1960s facade to the original French \"Second Empire\" architectural design, began in 2011 and was completed in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "47056344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47056344", "title": "Tubecon", "text": "Tubecon\n\nTubecon is a community-driven international YouTube event that gathers YouTube creators and their audiences in arena-sized public events. The first Tubecon took place in August 2014 in Hartwall Arena, Helsinki with over 5,000 visitors. Since then Tubecon has been organized 25 times in 4 different countries so far (Finland, Sweden, Spain and Switzerland) with altogether over 120,000 visitors in all the events. \n\nIn recent years Tubecon has grown significantly, as the YouTube and online influencer scene has also grown. The biggest Tubecon events have gathered over 18,000 visitors and featured over 200 YouTubers and online influencers.\n\nTubecon event program is built in collaboration with local online influencers and it includes multiple program elements such as Meet & Greets, Tubecon Video Awards, panels and concerts. In 2018 Tubecon is taking place in Finland, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland and letters of intent have been signed in Romania, Latvia and Austria.\n\nTubecon's story began in 2014 when Finnish creators wanted to organize an event where they and their viewers could meet each other in a safe and fun way.\n\n\nThey also presented Hartwall Arena's Minecraft version on the main stage.\n\nTubecon 2015 took place in Hartwall Arena in August 2015 with over 10,000 visitors.\n\nThe Finnish Tubecon took place from 12–13 August 2016 with the second event day being sold out. The event had all together 18,500 visitors.\n\nTubecon in Sweden had its beginning on 6 January 2016 in Stockholm with more than 4,500 visitors. They also did a tour during autumn, which started on 9 September in Västeras and ended on 10 December in Kungsbacka. About 50 YouTube creators toured 8 cities in total. More than 15,000 people visited Tubecon events in Sweden during 2016.\n\nFinnish event was organized in Hartwall Arena on 12–13 August with around 17,500 visitors.\n\nFirst ever Tubecon Spain was organized on 18 February in the wiZink Center in Madrid. The event had around 4,000 visitors and over 200 Spanish creators in attendance.\n\nTubecon Switzerland was organized for the first time in Zurich's Hallenstation on 29 December. Around 2,500 visitors took part to the event.\n\nThe Finnish Tubecon took place for the first time in Messukeskus Helsinki on 17–18 August. The event theme was \"My Story\". The event featured approximately 200 Finnish YouTubers. Tubecon hosted also international creators from the USA, Great Britain, Germany and Thailand in the first ever Tubecon World Meet. International creators included Bars and Melody, Jon Cozart aka Paint, Softpomz and MrTrashPack. The event also introduced a new TubeCity concept, where different genres like gaming, beauty and fashion and food, had their own blocks in the city-like event space. As a new initiative, Tubecon also introduced Tube Academy, an educational track inviting creators and anyone who wanted to learn more about video making and the industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "458995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=458995", "title": "Tulip festival", "text": "Tulip festival\n\nTulip Festivals are held in several cities around the world, mostly in North America — usually in cities with a Dutch heritage — such as Albany, New York; Ottawa, Ontario; Gatineau, Quebec; Montreal, Quebec; Holland, Michigan; Lehi, Utah; Orange City, Iowa; Pella, Iowa; Mount Vernon, Washington; and Woodburn, Oregon, and in other countries such as Australia India and England. The tulips are considered a welcome harbinger of spring, and a tulip festival permits residents to see them at their best advantage. The festivals are also popular tourist attractions. The tulips are displayed throughout the cities. In certain years the peak of tulips does not coincide with the actual festival due to climatic conditions.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe tulip-festivals are being held in honour of the Dutch-American immigrants who brought the (then highly expensive) tulips to the Americas.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53954324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53954324", "title": "Wainwright Libre", "text": "Wainwright Libre\n\n\"Wainwright Libre\", sometimes fully titled \"Wainwright Libre: Rufus in Havana\", was a concert series and \"fan experience\" by Rufus Wainwright, held during September 21–25, 2017, in Havana, Cuba.\n\n\"Wainwright Libre\" was a concert series and \"fan experience\" incorporating music and tourism, during which Wainwright performed in Havana, and guests accompanied him for \"adventures, sightseeing, fine cuisine, dancing and music\", over four days and nights. Participants stayed at the Melia Miramar Hotel and attended two concerts, which were scheduled to take place between September 21 and 25. One of the planned performances was a private, solo show, and the other was open to the public and featured a full orchestra and Cuban musicians, including singer-songwriter Carlos Varela. Advertised activities included \"cigar and rum tastings, rhumba and salsa dance parties, visits with Cuban visual artists, additional concerts from local musicians\", a music discussion led by Wainwright, and a workshop on Cuban music led by Interactivo's Roberto Carcassés. The excursion was organized by Dreamcatcher events.\n\n\"Billboard\" described the excursion as \"both an artistic and business venture\" and apolitical, but noted that Wainwright \"admits that politics, in this day and age, always has a role\". He told the magazine, \"I'm not [going] to make a political statement, but being an American and living in the United States -- although I'm also Canadian -- and also being somewhat sane and reasonable, it's impossible not to be political at the moment.\" Furthermore, Wainwright said of the relationship between Cuba, the United States, and their cultures: \"It's about the meeting of these two movements, which is a tried-and-tested tradition between the United States and Cuba, and now more important than ever considering what's happening politically in both countries.\"\n\nThe visit marked Wainwright's fourth to Cuba; he was reportedly inspired to perform in Havana after visiting the city's opera house during one of his travels. Wainwright and Varela know one another, having performed together at a party for one of Wainwright's friends. Prior to the excursion, he listened to Cuban music, especially underground music, which he also experienced during his travels to the country.\n\nDetails of the \"experience\" were confirmed by Music & Arts Live in March 2017. Wainwright said in a statement: I've played with orchestras all over the world, and it's a very powerful experience that I'm excited to try in Havana. Cuba is a complete and utter revelation in terms of its historical treasures, vibrant presence and interesting future. I can't wait to share that with my fans! I'm sure it will be a great party, and we'll dance the night away. I think it's important to remain open and proactive about sharing who we are as a society, engaging in cultural exchanges, learning about other people, and really enhancing America's reputation as ambassadors.\n\nHe also said of the event's purpose, \"I hope you walk away from the trip with new friends, memories, and a sense of the interesting realism of the place and the fantastical dream world that it can also engender. Cuba has an amazing mix of both elements.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4996496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4996496", "title": "West Cornwall May Day celebrations", "text": "West Cornwall May Day celebrations\n\nThe West Cornwall May Day celebrations are an example of folk practices found in the western part of Cornwall, England, United Kingdom, associated with the coming of spring. The celebration of May Day is a common motif throughout Europe and beyond. In Cornwall there are a number of notable examples of this practice including the Obby Oss in Padstow and Furry Dance or Flora day in Helston. The celebrations are in contrast to the Cornish midwinter celebrations that occur every year such as the Penzance Montol Festival and the Padstow Mummer's Day festival.\n\nPrior to the 20th century it was common for young residents of the towns of Penzance and St Ives and other nearby settlements to conduct their own festivities. During this festival it was usual to make 'May Horns' usually fashioned from tin cans and 'May Whistles' made from small branches of the sycamore tree. The tree branches also formed decorations for people's homes.\n\nThe following is from a contemporary description of the events themselves in 1881 collected by Robert Hunt in 'Popular Romances of the West of England Online Transcript of the original\nTHE first of May is inaugurated with much uproar. As soon as the clock has told of midnight, a loud blast on tin trumpets proclaims the advent of May. This is long continued. At daybreak, with their \"tintarrems,\" they proceed to the country, and strip the sycamore-trees (called May-trees) of all their young branches, to make whistles. With these shrill musical instruments they return home. Young men and women devote May-day to junketing and picnics.\n\nIt was a custom at Penzance, and probably at many other Cornish towns, when the author was a boy, for a number of young people to sit up until twelve o'clock, and then to march round the town with violins and fifes, and summon their friends to the Maying.\n\nWhen all were gathered, they went into the country, and were welcomed at the farmhouses at which they called, with some refreshment in the shape of rum and milk, junket, or something of that sort.\n\nThey then gathered the \"May,\" which included the young branches of any tree in blossom or fresh leaf. The branches of the sycamore were especially cut for the purpose of making the \"May-music.\" This was done by cutting a circle through the bark to the wood a few inches from the end of the branch. The, bark was wetted and carefully beaten until it was loosened and could be slid off from the wood. The wood was cut angularly at the end, so as to form a mouth-piece, and a slit was made in both the bark and the wood, so that when the bark was replaced a whistle was formed. Prepared with a sufficient number of May whistles, all the party returned to the town, the band playing, whistles blowing, and the young people singing some appropriate song.\n\nSt Ives in recent years has successfully revived some of the customs described above as part of its May Day Celebrations. picture of 2002 May Day civic procession. In 2008 Penzance revived some of these customs as part of a one-day community event called the \"Penzance May Horns\", these events are now held every year in the town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5218317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5218317", "title": "William, It Was Really Nothing", "text": "William, It Was Really Nothing\n\n\"William, It Was Really Nothing\" is a song by the English rock band the Smiths. It was released as a single in August 1984, featuring the B-sides \"Please, Please, Please, Let Me Get What I Want\" and \"How Soon Is Now?\", and reached No. 17 in the UK Singles Chart. The song is featured on the compilation albums \"Hatful of Hollow\" and \"Louder Than Bombs\", as well as other best of and singles collections. In 2004, the song was ranked No. 425 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's list of the 500 greatest songs of all time.\n\nWhen the band performed the song on \"Top of the Pops\", Morrissey ripped open his shirt to reveal the words \"MARRY ME\" written on his chest (\"Would you like to marry me?\" is one line of the song).\n\nMorrissey has said of the song: \"It occurred to me that within popular music if ever there were any records that discussed marriage they were always from the female's standpoint, female singers singing to women. There were never any songs saying 'do not marry, stay single, self-preservation,' etc. I thought it was about time there was a male voice speaking directly to another male saying that marriage was a waste of time ... that, in fact, it was absolutely nothing.\"\n\nThe song is popularly believed to have been about Morrissey's short-lived friendship with Billy Mackenzie, lead singer of the Associates. The Associates' album, \"Double Hipness\", released in August 2000, included the song \"Stephen, You're Really Something\", recorded by Billy MacKenzie and Alan Rankine during the band's reunion in 1993 as a response to \"William, It Was Really Nothing\".\n\n\nThe original artwork depicted comes from an early 1980s advertisement for A.D.S. speakers (the object on the bed is a speaker). For legal reasons, later pressings were produced with new artwork, a lilac-tinted still of Billie Whitelaw from the film \"Charlie Bubbles\", directed by Albert Finney. The sleeve for the 1988 CD single reissue shows Colin Campbell from the 1964 film \"The Leather Boys\". This artwork had previously been used in Germany for the single \"Ask\".\n\nBritish 7\" and 12\" with green tinted cover versions feature the matrix message: THE IMPOTENCE OF ERNEST/ROMANTIC AND SQUARE IS HIP AND AWARE\n\nBritish 7' with lilac tinted cover: THE IMPOTENCE OF ERNEST/WE HATES BAD GRAMMER\n\nBritish 12\" with lilac tinted cover: THE IMPOTENCE OF ERNEST/ROMANTIC AND [ ] IS HIP N'AWARE\n\nAs well as being a reference to \"The Importance of Being Earnest\", \"The impotence of Ernest\" is an allusion to the impotence that Ernest Hemingway suffered in his final years. The \"romantic\" line was said by John Lennon to Hunter Davies.\n\n"}
