{"id": "4237989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4237989", "title": "1970 world oil market chronology", "text": "1970 world oil market chronology\n\n|-\n"}
{"id": "2595860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2595860", "title": "3rd century in architecture", "text": "3rd century in architecture\n\n\"See also:\" \n2nd century in architecture, \n4th century in architecture and the \narchitecture timeline.\n\n"}
{"id": "35247766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35247766", "title": "Aggressive legalism", "text": "Aggressive legalism\n\nIn the context of globalization and the subsequent proliferation of free trade agreements (FTAs), legal scholars generally refer to the political strategy used by a sovereign state to leverage a trade agreement’s substantive rules to counter behavior it deems unreasonable by its trading partners, as aggressive legalism.\n\nFollowing World War II and the Bretton Woods Conference, the United States and the Allied Powers designed a new world economic order, partially emphasizing greater cooperative trade relationships. With the adoption of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in 1946 and via its replacement by the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1995, these countries developed a comprehensive legal framework, that reflected their common legal traditions, to facilitate these relationships, including a system to settle disputes that favored litigation.\n\nSomewhat under GATT in the 1950s but specifically with the adoption of the WTO, these countries engaged increased trade with Asian countries, as they became signatories. Initially, while the U.S. and the Allied Powers leveraged the agreement's respective legal frameworks and dispute-mechanisms including litigation to deal with disputes with their trading partners, many Asian countries choose not to. Instead, they avoided legal confrontation, in favor of bilateral negotiations to arrive at a settlement. Social-cultural disparities between each, concerning an inclination to litigate, are likely indicative of why.\n\nHowever, in the 1980s and 1990s, under both GATT and WTO, many Asian countries began to utilize their legal frameworks to settle disputes.\n\nIn 2001, in \"Aggressive Legalism: The Rules of the WTO and Japan’s Emerging Trade Strategy\", Saadia M. Pekkanen described the increasing tendency of the Japanese government’s use of the World Trade Organization's (WTO) dispute settlement protocols to counter adverse acts by its trading partners as aggressive legalism. Aggressive legalism, she argued is “a conscious strategy where a substantive set of international legal rules can be made to serve as both ‘shield’ and ‘sword’ in trade disputes among sovereign states.”\n\nIn a policy primer for the United States Government, The Policymaker's Library wrote that the United States' influence with its Asian trading partners has waned and that an \"emphasis on aggressive legalism\" affords opportunities to reshape economic relationships going forward.\n\nThe Korea–US Free Trade Agreement (KORUS), reflects a political strategy by both the United States and South Korea of aggressive legalism. That is, both countries agreed to envelope in the agreement binding legal rules to deal with lingering bilateral trade disputes.\n\nFollowing the succession of GATT with the WTO in the 1980s and 1990s, many Asian countries, including China, Japan, and South Korea, shifted to a policy of aggressive legalism, evidenced by each's willingness to use the legal frameworks provided under both to directly engage bilateral trading disputes with their partners.\n"}
{"id": "8094724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8094724", "title": "Alternative media (U.S. political left)", "text": "Alternative media (U.S. political left)\n\nThis is a list of alternative media espousing the views of the American political left. It covers alternative media sources including talk radio programs, blogs and other alternative media sources..\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "489094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489094", "title": "Area studies", "text": "Area studies\n\nArea studies (also regional studies) are interdisciplinary fields of research and scholarship pertaining to particular geographical, national/federal, or cultural regions. The term exists primarily as a general description for what are, in the practice of scholarship, many heterogeneous fields of research, encompassing both the social sciences and the humanities. Typical area study programs involve history, political science, sociology, cultural studies, languages, geography, literature, and related disciplines. In contrast to cultural studies, area studies often include diaspora and emigration from the area.\n\nInterdisciplinary area studies became increasingly common in the United States of America and in Western scholarship after World War II. Before that war American universities had just a few faculty who taught or conducted research on the non-Western world. Foreign-area studies were virtually nonexistent. After the war, liberals and conservatives alike were concerned about the U.S. ability to respond effectively to perceived external threats from the Soviet Union and China in the context of the emerging Cold War, as well as to the fall-out from the Decolonization of Africa and Asia.\n\nIn this context, the Ford Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, and the Carnegie Corporation of New York convened a series of meetings producing a broad consensus that to address this knowledge deficit, the U.S. must invest in international studies. Therefore, the foundations of the field are strongly rooted in America. Participants argued that a large brain trust of internationally oriented political scientists and economists was an urgent national priority. There was a central tension, however, between those who felt strongly that, instead of applying Western models, social scientists should develop culturally and historically contextualized knowledge of various parts of the world by working closely with humanists, and those who thought social scientists should seek to develop overarching macrohistorial theories that could draw connections between patterns of change and development across different geographies. The former became area-studies advocates, the latter proponents of modernization theory.\n\nThe Ford Foundation would eventually become the dominant player in shaping the area-studies program in the United States.\n\nIn 1950 the foundation established the prestigious Foreign Area Fellowship Program (FAFP), the first large-scale national competition in support of area-studies training in the United States. From 1953 to 1966 it contributed $270 million to 34 universities for area and language studies. Also during this period, it poured millions of dollars into the committees run jointly by the Social Science Research Council and the American Council of Learned Societies for field-development workshops, conferences, and publication programs. Eventually, the SSRC-ACLS joint committees would take over the administration of FAFP.\n\nOther large and important programs followed Ford's. Most notably, the National Defense Education Act of 1957, renamed the Higher Education Act in 1965, allocated funding for some 125 university-based area-studies units known as National Resource Center programs at U.S. universities, as well as for Foreign Language and Area Studies fellowships for graduate students.\n\nMeanwhile, area studies were also developed in the Soviet Union.\n\nSince their inception, area studies have been subject to criticism—including by area specialists themselves. Many of them alleged that because area studies were connected to the Cold War agendas of the CIA, the FBI, and other intelligence and military agencies, participating in such programs was tantamount to serving as an agent of the state. Some argue that there is the notion that U.S concerns and research priorities will define the intellectual terrain of area studies. Others insisted, however, that once they were established on university campuses, area studies began to encompass a much broader and deeper intellectual agenda than the one foreseen by government agencies, thus not American centric.\n\nArguably, one of the greatest threats to the area studies project was the rise of rational choice theory in political science and economics. To mock one of the most outspoken rational choice theory critics, Japan scholar Chalmers Johnson asked: Why do you need to know Japanese or anything about Japan's history and culture if the methods of rational choice will explain why Japanese politicians and bureaucrats do the things they do?\n\nFollowing the demise of the Soviet Union, philanthropic foundations and scientific bureaucracies moved to attenuate their support for area studies, emphasizing instead interregional themes like \"development and democracy\". When the Social Science Research Council and the American Council of Learned Societies, which had long served as the national nexus for raising and administering funds for area studies, underwent their first major restructuring in thirty years, closing down their area committees, scholars interpreted this as a massive signal about the changing research environment.\n\nFields are defined differently from university to university, and from department to department, but common area-studies fields include:\nDue to an increasing interest in studying translocal, transregional, transnational and transcontinental phenomena, a Potsdam-based research network has recently coined the term \"TransArea Studies\" (POINTS – Potsdam International Network for TransArea Studies).\n\nOther interdisciplinary research fields such as women's studies (also known as gender studies), disability studies, and ethnic studies (including African American studies, Asian American studies, Latino/a studies, and Native American studies) are not part of area studies but are sometimes included in discussion along with it.\n\nSome entire institutions of higher education (tertiary education) are devoted solely to area studies such as School of Oriental and African Studies, part of the University of London, or the Tokyo University of Foreign Studies in Japan. At the University of Oxford, the School of Interdisciplinary Area Studies (SIAS)School of Interdiscplinary Area Studies, Oxford and St Antony's College specialise in area studies, and hosts a number of post-graduate teaching programmes and research centres covering various regions of the world.\nJawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, is the only institution with immense contribution towards popularising area studies in India.\nAn institution which exclusively deals with Area Studies is the GIGA (German Institute of Global Area Studies) in Germany. Additionally, Lund University in Sweden offers the largest Asian Studies masters program in Northern Europe and is dedicated to promoting studies related to South Asia through its SASNet.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "624968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=624968", "title": "Atlanticism", "text": "Atlanticism\n\nAtlanticism, also known as Transatlanticism, is the belief in or support for a close relationship between the United States, Canada and Europe regarding political, economic and defence issues, with the belief that it would maintain security and prosperity of the participating countries and protect perceived values that unite them. The term derives from the Atlantic Ocean that separates the two continents.\n\nThe term can be used in a more limited way to imply support for North Atlantic military alliances, or in a more expansive way implying broader cooperation, perceived deeply shared values, a merging of diplomatic cultures, a sense of community and some degree of integration between North America and Europe. In practice, the philosophy of Atlanticism encourages active North American, particularly US, engagement in Europe and close cooperation between the two sides of the ocean.\n\nAtlanticism manifested itself most strongly during the Second World War and in its aftermath through the establishment of various euro-Atlantic institutions, most importantly NATO and the Marshall Plan.\n\nAtlanticism varies in strength from region to region and country to country based on a variety of historical and cultural factors. Atlanticism is often considered to be particularly strong in eastern and central Europe, and the United Kingdom (linked to the Special Relationship). Politically, it has tended to be associated most heavily and enthusiastically, but certainly not exclusively, with classical liberals, or the political right in Europe. Atlanticism often implies an affinity for American political or social culture as well as the historical bonds between the two continents.\n\nThere is some tension between Atlanticism and continentalism on both sides of the Atlantic, with some people emphasising increased regional cooperation or integration over trans-Atlantic cooperation. However, the relationship between Atlanticism and North American or European integration is complex and they are not seen in direct opposition to one another by many commentators. Internationalism is the foreign policy belief combining both Atlanticism and continentalism. The relative decrease of European power in the world, the fall of the Soviet Union, as well as the spread of Atlanticist norms outside of the North Atlantic region, have decreased the strength of Atlanticist thought since the end of the Cold War. Other international relationships have been increasingly emphasised, although the trans-Atlantic relationship is still arguably the most important in the world.\n\nPrior to the World Wars, western European countries were generally preoccupied with creating colonial empires in Africa and Asia and not relations with North America. Likewise, the United States was busy with interventions in Latin America, but had little interest in European affairs, and Canada had yet to exercise full foreign policy independence as a part of the British Empire.\n\nThe experience of having American and Canadian troops fighting with British, French, and other Europeans in Europe during the wars fundamentally changed this situation. Though the US (and to some extent Canada) adopted a more isolationist position between the wars, by the time of the Normandy landings the Allies were well integrated on all policies. The Atlantic Charter of 1941 declared by US President Roosevelt and British Prime Minister Churchill established the goals of the Allies for the post-war world, and was later adopted by all the Western allies. Following the Second World War, the Western European countries were anxious to convince the US to remain engaged in European affairs to deter any possible aggression by the Soviet Union. This led to the 1949 \"North Atlantic Treaty\" which established the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the main institutional consequence of Atlanticism, which binds all members to defend the others, and led to the long-term garrisoning of American and Canadian troops in Western Europe.\nAfter the end of the cold war, the relationship between the United States and Europe changed fundamentally, and made both sides less interested in the other. Without the threat of the Soviet Union dominating Europe, the continent became much less of a military priority for the US, and likewise, Europe no longer felt as much need for military protection from the US. As a result, the relationship became much less important strategically speaking.\n\nAtlanticism has undergone significant changes in the 21st century in light of terrorism and the Iraq War, the net effect being a renewed questioning of the idea itself and a new insight that the security of the respective countries may require alliance action outside the North Atlantic territory. After the September 11, 2001, attacks, NATO for the first time invoked Article 5, which states that any attack on a member state will be considered an attack against the entire group of members. Planes of NATO's multi-national AWACS unit patrolled the U.S. skies and European countries deployed personnel and equipment. However, the Iraq War caused fissures within NATO and the sharp difference of opinion between the US-led backers of the invasion and opponents strained the alliance. Some commentators, such as Robert Kagan questioned whether Europe and the United States had diverged to such a degree that their alliance was no longer relevant.\n\nAtlanticism is a belief in the necessity of cooperation between North America and Europe. The term can imply a belief that the bilateral relationship between Europe and the United States is important above all others, including intra-European cooperation, especially when it comes to security issues. The term can also be used \"as a shorthand for the transatlantic security architecture.\"\n\nSupranational integration of the North Atlantic area had emerged as a focus of thinking among intellectuals on both sides of the Atlantic already in the late 19th century. Although it was not known as Atlanticism at the time (the term was coined in 1950), they developed an approach coupling soft and hard power which would to some extent integrate the two sides of the Atlantic. The idea of an attractive \"nucleus\" union was the greatest soft power element; the empirical fact of the hegemonic global strength such a union would hold was the hard power element. This approach was eventually implemented to a certain degree in the form of NATO, the G7 grouping and other Atlanticist institutions. In the long debate between Atlanticism and its critics in the 20th century, the main argument was whether deep and formal Atlantic integration would serve to attract those still outside to seek to join, as Atlanticists argued, or alienate the rest of the world and drive them into opposite alliances. Realists, neutralists, and pacifists, nationalists and globalists tended to believe it would do the latter, citing the Warsaw Pact as the proof of their views and treating it as the inevitable realpolitik counterpart of NATO.\n\nAtlanticism is, broadly speaking, particularly strong in Britain (linked to the Special Relationship), and eastern and central Europe (i.e. the area between Germany and Russia). There are numerous reasons for its strength in Eastern Europe, primarily the role of the United States bringing political freedom there after the First World War, the role of the US in defeating Nazism, its leading role during the Cold War, its relative enthusiasm for bringing the countries of the region into Atlanticist institutions such as NATO, and a suspicion of the intentions of the major Western European powers. Countries such as Denmark, Poland, Romania, and the United Kingdom are among those who generally hold strong Atlanticist views, while Germany tends to promote continentalist views and a strong European Union.\n\nIn the early 21st century Atlanticism has tended to be slightly stronger on the political right in Europe (although many variations do exist from country to country), but the political center-left in the United States. The partisan division should not be overstated, but it exists and has grown since the end of the Cold War.\n\nWhile trans-Atlantic trade and political ties have remained mostly strong throughout the Cold War and beyond, the larger trend has been continentalist economic integration with the European Union (and its regional partners) and the North American Free Trade Agreement notably dividing the Atlantic region into two rival trade blocs. However, many political actors and commentators do not see the two processes as being necessarily opposed to one another, in fact some commentators believe regional integration can reinforce Atlanticism. Article 2 of the North Atlantic Treaty, added by Canada, also attempted to bind the nations together on economic and political fronts.\n\nThe North Atlantic Council is the premier, governmental forum for discussion and decision-making in an Atlanticist context. Other organizations that can be considered Atlanticist in origin: \n\nWell-known Atlanticists include former U.S. Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan; U.K. Prime Ministers Winston Churchill, Margaret Thatcher, Tony Blair, and Gordon Brown, François Mitterrand, Dean Acheson, Zbigniew Brzezinski, and Javier Solana.\n"}
{"id": "197522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197522", "title": "B. R. Ambedkar", "text": "B. R. Ambedkar\n\nBhimrao Ramji Ambedkar (14 April 1891 – 6 December 1956), popularly known as Babasaheb Ambedkar, was an Indian jurist, economist, politician and social reformer who inspired the Dalit Buddhist movement and campaigned against social discrimination towards the untouchables (\"Dalits\"), while also supporting the rights of women and labour. He was independent India's first law and justice minister, the principal architect of the Constitution of India, and a founding father of the Republic of India.\n\nAmbedkar was a prolific student earning doctorates in economics from both Columbia University and the London School of Economics and gained a reputation as a scholar for his research in law, economics, and political science. In his early career he was an economist, professor, and lawyer. His later life was marked by his political activities; he became involved in campaigning and negotiations for India's independence, publishing journals, advocating political rights and social freedom for Dalits, and contributing significantly to the establishment of the state of India. In 1956, he converted to Buddhism initiating mass conversions of Dalits.\n\nIn 1990, the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian award, was posthumously conferred upon Ambedkar. Ambedkar's legacy includes numerous memorials and depictions in popular culture.\n\nAmbedkar was born on 14 April 1891 in the town and military cantonment of Mhow (now Dr. Ambedkar Nagar) in the Central Provinces (now in Madhya Pradesh). He was the 14th and last child of Ramji Maloji Sakpal, an army officer who held the rank of Subedar, and Bhimabai Sakpal, daughter of Laxman Murbadkar. His family was of Marathi background from the town of Ambadawe (Mandangad taluka) in Ratnagiri district of modern-day Maharashtra. Ambedkar was born into a poor low Mahar (dalit) caste, who were treated as untouchables and subjected to socio-economic discrimination. Ambedkar's ancestors had long worked for the army of the British East India Company, and his father served in the British Indian Army at the Mhow cantonment.\nAlthough they attended school, Ambedkar and other untouchable children were segregated and given little attention or help by teachers. They were not allowed to sit inside the class. When they needed to drink water, someone from a higher caste had to pour that water from a height as they were not allowed to touch either the water or the vessel that contained it. This task was usually performed for the young Ambedkar by the school peon, and if the peon was not available then he had to go without water; he described the situation later in his writings as \"No peon, No Water\". He was required to sit on a gunny sack which he had to take home with him.\n\nRamji Sakpal retired in 1894 and the family moved to Satara two years later. Shortly after their move, Ambedkar's mother died. The children were cared for by their paternal aunt and lived in difficult circumstances. Three sons – Balaram, Anandrao and Bhimrao – and two daughters – Manjula and Tulasa – of the Ambedkars survived them. Of his brothers and sisters, only Ambedkar passed his examinations and went to high school. His original surname was \"Sakpal\" but his father registered his name as \"Ambadawekar\" in school, meaning he comes from his native village 'Ambadawe' in Ratnagiri district. His Devrukhe Brahmin teacher, Krishna Keshav Ambedkar, changed his surname from \"Ambadawekar\" to his own surname \"Ambedkar\" in school records.\n\nIn 1897, Ambedkar's family moved to Mumbai where Ambedkar became the only untouchable enrolled at Elphinstone High School. In 1906, when he was about 15 years old, his marriage to a nine-year-old girl, Ramabai, was arranged.\n\nIn 1907, he passed his matriculation examination and in the following year he entered Elphinstone College, which was affiliated to the University of Bombay, becoming the first untouchable to do so. In his book, \"The Buddha and his Dhamma\", that when he passed his English fourth standard examinations, the people of his community wanted to celebrate because they considered that he had reached \"great heights\" which he says was \"hardly an occasion compared to the state of education in other communities\". A public ceremony was evoked, to celebrate his success, by the community, and it was at this occasion that he was presented with a biography of the Buddha by Dada Keluskar, the author and a family friend.\n\nBy 1912, he obtained his degree in economics and political science from Bombay University, and prepared to take up employment with the Baroda state government. His wife had just moved his young family and started work when he had to quickly return to Mumbai to see his ailing father, who died on 2 February 1913.\n\nIn 1913, Ambedkar moved to the United States at the age of 22. He had been awarded a Baroda State Scholarship of £11.50 (Sterling) per month for three years under a scheme established by Sayajirao Gaekwad III (Gaekwad of Baroda) that was designed to provide opportunities for postgraduate education at Columbia University in New York City. Soon after arriving there he settled in rooms at Livingston Hall with Naval Bhathena, a Parsi who was to be a lifelong friend. He passed his M.A. exam in June 1915, majoring in Economics, and other subjects of Sociology, History, Philosophy and Anthropology. He presented a thesis, \"Ancient Indian Commerce\". Ambedkar was influenced by John Dewey and his work on democracy.\n\nIn 1916 he completed his second thesis, \"National Dividend of India – A Historic and Analytical Study\", for another M.A., and finally he received his PhD in Economics in 1927 for his third thesis, after he left for London. On 9 May, he presented the paper \"\" before a seminar conducted by the anthropologist Alexander Goldenweiser.\n\nIn October 1916, he enrolled for the Bar course at Gray's Inn, and at the same time enrolled at the London School of Economics where he started working on a doctoral thesis. In June 1917, he returned to India because his scholarship from Baroda ended. His book collection was dispatched on different ship from the one he was on, and that ship was torpedoed and sunk by a German submarine. He got permission to return to London to submit his thesis within four years. He returned at the first opportunity, and completed a master's degree in 1921. His thesis was on \"The problem of the rupee: Its origin and its solution\". In 1922, he was called to the Bar by Gray's Inn and In 1923, he completed a D.Sc. in Economics. His third and fourth Doctorates (LL.D, Columbia, 1952 and D.Litt., Osmania, 1953) were conferred \"honoris causa\".\n\nAs Ambedkar was educated by the Princely State of Baroda, he was bound to serve it. He was appointed Military Secretary to the Gaikwad but had to quit in a short time. He described the incident in his autobiography, \"Waiting for a Visa\". Thereafter, he tried to find ways to make a living for his growing family. He worked as a private tutor, as an accountant, and established an investment consulting business, but it failed when his clients learned that he was an untouchable. In 1918, he became Professor of Political Economy in the Sydenham College of Commerce and Economics in Mumbai. Although he was successful with the students, other professors objected to his sharing a drinking-water jug with them.\n\nAmbedkar had been invited to testify before the Southborough Committee, which was preparing the Government of India Act 1919. At this hearing, Ambedkar argued for creating separate electorates and reservations for untouchables and other religious communities. In 1920, he began the publication of the weekly \"Mooknayak\" (\"Leader of the Silent\") in Mumbai with the help of Shahu of Kolhapur i.e. Shahu IV (1874–1922).\n\nAmbedkar went on to work as a legal professional. In 1926, he successfully defended three non-Brahmin leaders who had accused the Brahmin community of ruining India and were then subsequently sued for libel. Dhananjay Keer notes that \"The victory was resounding, both socially and individually, for the clients and the Doctor.\"\n\nWhile practising law in the Bombay High Court, he tried to promote education to untouchables and uplift them. His first organised attempt was his establishment of the central institution Bahishkrit Hitakarini Sabha, intended to promote education and socio-economic improvement, as well as the welfare of \"outcastes\", at the time referred to as depressed classes. For the defence of Dalit rights, he started five periodicals - \"Mooknayak\" (the leader of the dumb, 1920), \"Bahishkrit Bharat\" (Ostracized India, 1924), \"Samta\" (Equality, 1928), \"Janata\" (The People, 1930), and \"Prabuddha Bharat\" (Enlightened India, 1956).\n\nHe was appointed to the Bombay Presidency Committee to work with the all-European Simon Commission in 1925. This commission had sparked great protests across India, and while its report was ignored by most Indians, Ambedkar himself wrote a separate set of recommendations for the future Constitution of India.\n\nBy 1927, Ambedkar had decided to launch active movements against untouchability. He began with public movements and marches to open up public drinking water resources. He also began a struggle for the right to enter Hindu temples. He led a \"satyagraha\" in Mahad to fight for the right of the untouchable community to draw water from the main water tank of the town. In a conference in late 1927, Ambedkar publicly condemned the classic Hindu text, the Manusmriti (Laws of Manu), for ideologically justifying caste discrimination and \"untouchability\", and he ceremonially burned copies of the ancient text. On 25 December 1927, he led thousands of followers to burn copies of Manusmrti. Thus annually 25 December is celebrated as \"Manusmriti Dahan Din\" (Manusmriti Burning Day) by Ambedkarites and Dalits.\n\nIn 1930, Ambedkar launched Kalaram Temple movement after three months of preparation. About 15,000 volunteers assembled at Kalaram Temple satygraha making one of the greatest processions of Nashik. The procession was headed by a military band, a batch of scouts, women and men walked in discipline, order and determination to see the god for the first time. When they reached to gate, the gates were closed by Brahmin authorities.\n\nIn 1932, British announced the formation of a separate electorate for \"Depressed Classes\" in the Communal Award. Gandhi fiercely opposed a separate electorate for untouchables, saying he feared that such an arrangement would divide the Hindu community. Gandhi protested by fasting while imprisoned in the Yerwada Central Jail of Poona. Following the fast, Congress politicians and activists such as Madan Mohan Malaviya and Palwankar Baloo organised joint meetings with Ambedkar and his supporters at Yerwada. On 25 September 1932, the agreement known as Poona Pact was signed between Ambedkar (on behalf of the depressed classes among Hindus) and Madan Mohan Malaviya (on behalf of the other Hindus). The agreement gave reserved seats for the depressed classes in the Provisional legislatures, within the general electorate. Due to the pact, the depressed class received 148 seats in the legislature, instead of the 71 as allocated in the Communal Award earlier proposed by British Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald. The text uses the term \"Depressed Classes\" to denote Untouchables among Hindus who were later called Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes under India Act 1935, and the later Indian Constitution of 1950. In the Poona Pact, a unified electorate was in principle formed, but primary and secondary elections allowed Untouchables in practice to choose their own candidates.\n\nIn 1935, Ambedkar was appointed principal of the Government Law College, Bombay, a position he held for two years. He also served as the chairman of Governing body of Ramjas College, University of Delhi, after the death of its Founder Shri Rai Kedarnath. Settling in Bombay (today called Mumbai), Ambedkar oversaw the construction of a house, and stocked his personal library with more than 50,000 books. His wife Ramabai died after a long illness the same year. It had been her long-standing wish to go on a pilgrimage to Pandharpur, but Ambedkar had refused to let her go, telling her that he would create a new Pandharpur for her instead of Hinduism's Pandharpur which treated them as untouchables. At the Yeola Conversion Conference on 13 October in Nasik, Ambedkar announced his intention to convert to a different religion and exhorted his followers to leave Hinduism. He would repeat his message at many public meetings across India.\n\nIn 1936, Ambedkar founded the Independent Labour Party, which contested the 1937 Bombay election to the Central Legislative Assembly for the 13 reserved and 4 general seats, and secured 11 and 3 seats respectively.\n\nAmbedkar published his book \"Annihilation of Caste\" on 15 May 1936. It strongly criticised Hindu orthodox religious leaders and the caste system in general, and included \"a rebuke of Gandhi\" on the subject. Later, in a 1955 BBC interview, he accused Gandhi of writing in opposition of the caste system in English language papers while writing in support of it in Gujarati language papers.\n\nAmbedkar served on the Defence Advisory Committee and the Viceroy's Executive Council as minister for labour.\n\nAfter the Lahore resolution (1940) of the Muslim League demanding Pakistan, Ambedkar wrote a 400-page tract titled \"Thoughts on Pakistan\", which analysed the concept of \"Pakistan\" in all its aspects. Ambedkar argued that the Hindus should concede Pakistan to the Muslims. He proposed that the provincial boundaries of Punjab and Bengal should be redrawn to separate the Muslim and non-Muslim majority parts. He thought the Muslims could have no objection to redrawing provincial boundaries. If they did, they did not quite \"understand the nature of their own demand\". Scholar Venkat Dhulipala states that \"Thoughts on Pakistan\" \"rocked Indian politics for a decade\". It determined the course of dialogue between the Muslim League and the Indian National Congress, paving the way for the Partition of India.\n\nIn his work \"Who Were the Shudras?\", Ambedkar tried to explain the formation of untouchables. He saw Shudras and Ati Shudras who form the lowest caste in the ritual hierarchy of the caste system, as separate from Untouchables. Ambedkar oversaw the transformation of his political party into the Scheduled Castes Federation, although it performed poorly in the 1946 elections for Constituent Assembly of India. Later he was elected into the constituent assembly of Bengal where Muslim League was in power.\n\nAmbedkar contested in the Bombay North first Indian General Election of 1952, but lost to his former assistant and Congress Party candidate Narayan Kajrolkar. Ambedkar became a member of Rajya Sabha, probably an appointed member. He tried to enter Lok Sabha again in the by-election of 1954 from Bhandara, but he placed third (the Congress Party won). By the time of the second general election in 1957, Ambedkar had died.\n\nAmbedkar also criticised Islamic practice in South Asia. While justifying the Partition of India, he condemned child marriage and the mistreatment of women in Muslim society.\nNo words can adequately express the great and many evils of polygamy and concubinage, and especially as a source of misery to a Muslim woman. Take the caste system. Everybody infers that Islam must be free from slavery and caste. [...] [While slavery existed], much of its support was derived from Islam and Islamic countries. While the prescriptions by the Prophet regarding the just and humane treatment of slaves contained in the Koran are praiseworthy, there is nothing whatever in Islam that lends support to the abolition of this curse. But if slavery has gone, caste among Musalmans [Muslims] has remained.\n\nAmbedkar viewed the Shudras as Aryan and adamantly rejected the Aryan invasion theory, describing it as \"so absurd that it ought to have been dead long ago\" in his 1946 book \"Who Were the Shudras?\".\n\nAmbedkar viewed Shudras as originally being \"part of the Kshatriya Varna in the Indo-Aryan society\", but became socially degraded after they inflicted many tyrannies on Brahmins.\n\nAccording to Arvind Sharma, Ambedkar noticed certain flaws in the Aryan invasion theory that were later acknowledged by western scholarship. For example, scholars now acknowledge \"anās\" in Rig Veda 5.29.10 refers to speech rather than the shape of the nose. Ambedkar anticipated this modern view by stating:\n\nAmbedkar disputed various hypotheses of the Aryan homeland being outside India, and concluded the Aryan homeland was India itself. According to Ambedkar, the Rig Veda says Aryans, Dāsa and Dasyus were competing religious groups, not different peoples.\n\nUpon India's independence on 15 August 1947, the new Congress-led government invited Ambedkar to serve as the nation's first Law Minister, which he accepted. On 29 August, he was appointed Chairman of the Constitution Drafting Committee, and was appointed by the Assembly to write India's new Constitution.\n\nGranville Austin described the Indian Constitution drafted by Ambedkar as 'first and foremost a social document'. 'The majority of India's constitutional provisions are either directly arrived at furthering the aim of social revolution or attempt to foster this revolution by establishing conditions necessary for its achievement.'\n\nThe text prepared by Ambedkar provided constitutional guarantees and protections for a wide range of civil liberties for individual citizens, including freedom of religion, the abolition of untouchability, and the outlawing of all forms of discrimination. Ambedkar argued for extensive economic and social rights for women, and won the Assembly's support for introducing a system of reservations of jobs in the civil services, schools and colleges for members of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and Other Backward Class, a system akin to affirmative action. India's lawmakers hoped to eradicate the socio-economic inequalities and lack of opportunities for India's depressed classes through these measures. The Constitution was adopted on 26 November 1949 by the Constituent Assembly.\n\nAmbedkar opposed Article 370 of the Constitution of India, which granted a special status to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, and which was included against his wishes. Balraj Madhok reportedly said, Ambedkar had clearly told the Kashmiri leader, Sheikh Abdullah: \"You wish India should protect your borders, she should build roads in your area, she should supply you food grains, and Kashmir should get equal status as India. But Government of India should have only limited powers and Indian people should have no rights in Kashmir. To give consent to this proposal, would be a treacherous thing against the interests of India and I, as the Law Minister of India, will never do it.\" Then Sk. Abdullah approached Nehru, who directed him to Gopal Swami Ayyangar, who in turn approached Sardar Patel, saying Nehru had promised Sk. Abdullah the special status. Patel got the Article passed while Nehru was on a foreign tour. On the day the article came up for discussion, Ambedkar did not reply to questions on it but did participate on other articles. All arguments were done by Krishna Swami Ayyangar.\n\nDuring the debates in the Constituent Assembly, Ambedkar demonstrated his will to reform Indian society by recommending the adoption of a Uniform Civil Code. Ambedkar resigned from the cabinet in 1951, when parliament stalled his draft of the Hindu Code Bill, which sought to enshrine gender equality in the laws of inheritance and marriage. Ambedkar independently contested an election in 1952 to the lower house of parliament, the Lok Sabha, but was defeated in the Bombay (North Central) constituency by a little-known Narayan Sadoba Kajrolkar, who polled 138,137 votes compared to Ambedkar's 123,576. He was appointed to the upper house, of parliament, the Rajya Sabha in March 1952 and would remain as member until death.\n\nAmbedkar was the first Indian to pursue a doctorate in economics abroad. He argued that industrialisation and agricultural growth could enhance the Indian economy. He stressed investment in agriculture as the primary industry of India. According to Sharad Pawar, Ambedkar's vision helped the government to achieve its food security goal. Ambedkar advocated national economic and social development, stressing education, public hygiene, community health, residential facilities as the basic amenities. He calculated the loss of development caused by British rule.\n\nAmbedkar was trained as an economist, and was a professional economist until 1921, when he became a political leader. He wrote three scholarly books on economics:\n\nThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI), was based on the ideas that Ambedkar presented to the Hilton Young Commission.\n\nAmbedkar's first wife Ramabai died in 1935 after a long illness. After completing the draft of India's constitution in the late 1940s, he suffered from lack of sleep, had neuropathic pain in his legs, and was taking insulin and homoeopathic medicines. He went to Bombay for treatment, and there met Dr. Sharada Kabir, a Chitpawan Brahmin, whom he married on 15 April 1948, at his home in New Delhi. She was 39 year old and he was 57. Doctors recommended a companion who was a good cook and had medical knowledge to care for him. She adopted the name Savita Ambedkar and cared for him the rest of his life. Savita Ambedkar, who was called 'Mai' or 'Maisaheb', died on 29 May 2003, aged 93 at Mehrauli, New Delhi.\n\nAmbedkar considered converting to Sikhism, which encouraged opposition to oppression and so appealed to leaders of scheduled castes. But after meeting with Sikh leaders, he concluded that he might get \"second-rate\" Sikh status, as described by scholar Stephen P. Cohen.\n\nInstead, he studied Buddhism all his life. Around 1950, he devoted his attention to Buddhism and travelled to Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) to attend a meeting of the World Fellowship of Buddhists. While dedicating a new Buddhist vihara near Pune, Ambedkar announced he was writing a book on Buddhism, and that when it was finished, he would formally convert to Buddhism. He twice visited Burma in 1954; the second time to attend the third conference of the World Fellowship of Buddhists in Rangoon. In 1955, he founded the Bharatiya Bauddha Mahasabha, or the Buddhist Society of India. He completed his final work, \"The Buddha and His Dhamma\", in 1956 which was published posthumously.\n\nAfter meetings with the Sri Lankan Buddhist monk Hammalawa Saddhatissa, Ambedkar organised a formal public ceremony for himself and his supporters in Deekshabhoomi, Nagpur on 14 October 1956. Accepting the Three Refuges and Five Precepts from a Buddhist monk Mahasthavir Chandramani in the traditional manner, Ambedkar completed his own conversion, along with his wife. He then proceeded to convert some 500,000 of his supporters who were gathered around him. He prescribed the 22 Vows for these converts, after the Three Jewels and Five Precepts. He then travelled to Kathmandu, Nepal to attend the Fourth World Buddhist Conference. His work on \"The Buddha or Karl Marx\" and \"Revolution and counter-revolution in ancient India\" remained incomplete.\n\nSince 1948, Ambedkar suffered from diabetes. He was bed-ridden from June to October in 1954 due to medication side-effects and poor eyesight. He had been increasingly embittered by political issues, which took a toll on his health. His health worsened during 1955. Three days after completing his final manuscript \"The Buddha and His Dhamma\", Ambedkar died in his sleep on 6 December 1956 at his home in Delhi.\n\nA Buddhist cremation was organised at Dadar Chowpatty beach (Chaitya Bhoomi) on 7 December, attended by half a million grieving people. A conversion program was organised on 16 December 1956, so that cremation attendees were also converted to Buddhism at the same place.\n\nAmbedkar was survived by his second wife, who died in 2003, and his son Yashwant Ambedkar (known as Bhaiyasaheb). Ambedkar's grandson, Prakash Ambedkar, is the chief-adviser of the Buddhist Society of India, leads the Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh and has served in both houses of the Indian Parliament.\n\nA number of unfinished typescripts and handwritten drafts were found among Ambedkar's notes and papers and gradually made available. Among these were \"Waiting for a Visa\", which probably dates from 1935–36 and is an autobiographical work, and the \"Untouchables, or the Children of India's Ghetto\", which refers to the census of 1951.\n\nA memorial for Ambedkar was established in his Delhi house at 26 Alipur Road. His birthdate is celebrated as a public holiday known as Ambedkar Jayanti or Bhim Jayanti. He was posthumously awarded India's highest civilian honour, the Bharat Ratna, in 1990.\n\nOn the anniversary of his birth and death, and on Dhamma Chakra Pravartan Din (14 October) at Nagpur, at least half a million people gather to pay homage to him at his memorial in Mumbai. Thousands of bookshops are set up, and books are sold. His message to his followers was \"educate, organise, agitate\".\n\nAmbedkar's legacy as a socio-political reformer, had a deep effect on modern India. In post-Independence India, his socio-political thought is respected across the political spectrum. His initiatives have influenced various spheres of life and transformed the way India today looks at socio-economic policies, education and affirmative action through socio-economic and legal incentives. His reputation as a scholar led to his appointment as free India's first law minister, and chairman of the committee for drafting the constitution. He passionately believed in individual freedom and criticised caste society. His accusations of Hinduism as being the foundation of the caste system made him controversial and unpopular among Hindus. His conversion to Buddhism sparked a revival in interest in Buddhist philosophy in India and abroad.\nFor his actions towards the salvation and equality of mankind, his followers and the Indian people started respectfully addressing him as \"Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar\", since sometime between September–October 1927. \"Babasaheb\" is a Marathi phrase which roughly translates, literally as \"Father-Sir\" (baba: father; and saheb: Sir) because millions of Indians consider him a \"great liberator\".\n\nMany public institutions are named in his honour, and the Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport in Nagpur, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, Ambedkar University Delhi is also named in his honour. A large official portrait of Ambedkar is on display in the Indian Parliament building.\nThe Maharashtra government has acquired a house in London where Ambedkar lived during his days as a student in the 1920s. The house is expected to be converted into a museum-cum-memorial to Ambedkar.\n\nAmbedkar was voted \"the Greatest Indian\" in 2012 by a poll organised by History TV18 and CNN IBN. Nearly 20 million votes were cast, making him the most popular Indian figure since the launch of the initiative. Due to his role in economics, Narendra Jadhav, a notable Indian economist, has said that Ambedkar was \"the highest educated Indian economist of all times.\" Amartya Sen, said that Ambedkar is \"father of my economics\", and \"he was highly controversial figure in his home country, though it was not the reality. His contribution in the field of economics is marvelous and will be remembered forever.\" President Obama addressed the Indian parliament in 2010, and referred to Dalit leader Dr. B. R. Ambedkar as the great and revered Human Rights champion and main author of India's constitution.\nAmbedkar's political philosophy has given rise to a large number of political parties, publications and workers' unions that remain active across India, especially in Maharashtra. His promotion of Buddhism has rejuvenated interest in Buddhist philosophy among sections of population in India. Mass conversion ceremonies have been organised by human rights activists in modern times, emulating Ambedkar's Nagpur ceremony of 1956. Most Indian Buddhists specially Navayana followers regard him as a Bodhisattva, the Maitreya, although he never claimed it himself. Outside India, during the late 1990s, some Hungarian Romani people drew parallels between their own situation and that of the downtrodden people in India. Inspired by Ambedkar, they started to convert to Buddhism.\n\nSeveral movies, plays, and other works have been based on the life and thoughts of Ambedkar. Jabbar Patel directed the English-language film \"Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar\" in 2000 with Mammootty in the lead role. This biopic was sponsored by the National Film Development Corporation of India and the government's Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The film was released after a long and controversial gestation. David Blundell, professor of anthropology at UCLA and historical ethnographer, has established \"Arising Light\" – a series of films and events that are intended to stimulate interest and knowledge about the social conditions in India and the life of Ambedkar. In \"Samvidhaan\", a TV mini-series on the making of the Constitution of India directed by Shyam Benegal, the pivotal role of B. R. Ambedkar was played by Sachin Khedekar. The play \"Ambedkar Aur Gandhi\", directed by Arvind Gaur and written by Rajesh Kumar, tracks the two prominent personalities of its title.\n\n\"Bhimayana: Experiences of Untouchability\" is a graphic biography of Ambedkar created by Pardhan-Gond artists Durgabai Vyam and Subhash Vyam, and writers Srividya Natarajan and S. Anand. The book depicts the experiences of untouchability faced by Ambedkar from childhood to adulthood. CNN named it one of the top 5 political comic books.\n\nThe Ambedkar Memorial at Lucknow is dedicated in his memory. The chaitya consists of monuments showing his biography.\nAmbedkar's birthdate is an annual festival and a public holiday celebrated as Ambedkar Jayanti or Bhim Jayanti. Ambedkar Jayanti is celebrated not just in India but all around the world. The United Nations celebrated Ambedkar Jayanti in 2016, 2017 and 2018.\n\nIn 1990, Ambedkar was bestowed with Bharat Ratna award. In honor of Ambedkar, Indian Constitution Day (National Law Day) is celebrated on 26 November. The day was chosen to spread the importance of the constitution and to spread thoughts and ideas of Ambedkar.\n\nGoogle commemorated Ambedkar's 124th birthday through a homepage doodle on 14 April 2015.\n\nThese are the List of Films based on the life of B. R. Ambedkar (according to years of Release):\n\nThe Education Department, Government of Maharashtra (Mumbai) published the collection of Ambedkar's writings and speeches in different volumes, collectively named \"Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar: Writings and Speeches\".\n\n\n\n\nPrimary sources\n"}
{"id": "4476833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4476833", "title": "Birch bark letter no. 292", "text": "Birch bark letter no. 292\n\nThe birch bark letter given the document number 292 is the oldest known document in any Finnic language. The document is dated to the beginning of the 13th century. It was found in 1957 by a Soviet expedition led by Artemiy Artsikhovsky in the Nerevsky excavation on the left coast side of Novgorod. It is currently in Novgorod City Museum. \n\nThe language used in the document is thought to be an archaic form of Livvi-Karelian, the language spoken in Olonets Karelia, although the exact form is difficult to determine, as Finnic dialects were only developing during that period.\n\nThe text is written in Cyrillic in the Karelian dialect of the archaic Finnish or Finnic language. A transcription of the text is as follows:\n\nThe text, as transliterated to the Latin alphabet by Yuri Yeliseyev in 1959 and interpreted in modern Finnish:\n\nIn English, this means roughly the following:\nYeliseyev believes, that this is an invocation against lightning, as evidenced by \"ten your names\" construction. According to superstitious notions, knowledge of the name gives a human the magic power over an object or phenomenon.\n\nAs the orthography used does not utilize spaces between words, the source text can be transcribed into words in different ways. Martti Haavio gives a different interpretation of the text in his 1964 article, suggesting, that this is a sort of an oath:\n\nIn English, this means roughly the following:\nProfessor Yevgeny Khelimsky in his 1986 work criticizes Haavio's interpretation and gives the third known scientific interpretation, believing the letter to be an invocation, like Yeliseyev:\n\nA translation into Finnish of this interpretation would look something like this:\n\nIn English, it means roughly the following:\n†\"Syyttö-Jumala\" could also mean \"Blaming God\" or \"God that blames\"; modern Finnish \"syyttää\" = to blame or prosecute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1651957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1651957", "title": "Black Bart (outlaw)", "text": "Black Bart (outlaw)\n\nCharles Earl Boles (b. 1829; d. after February 28, 1888), also known as Black Bart, was an English-born outlaw noted for the poetic messages he left behind after two of his robberies. Often called Charley by his friends, he was also known as Charles Bolton, C.E. Bolton and Black Bart the Poet. Considered a gentleman bandit with a reputation for style and sophistication, he was one of the most notorious stagecoach robbers to operate in and around Northern California and southern Oregon during the 1870s and 1880s.\n\nCharles Boles was born in Norfolk, England to John and Maria Boles (sometimes spelled Bolles). He was the third of ten children, having six brothers and three sisters. When he was two years old, his parents immigrated to Jefferson County, New York, where his father purchased a farm four miles north of Plessis Village in the direction of Alexandria Bay.\n\nIn late 1849, Boles and his brothers David and James joined in the California Gold Rush, prospecting in the North Fork of the American River near Sacramento. They traveled home in 1852, but Boles later returned with his brothers David and Robert. Both brothers fell ill shortly after their arrival and died. Charles Boles remained in California for another two more years before giving up again.\n\nIn 1854, Boles (who now used this spelling) married Mary Elizabeth Johnson. By 1860, they were living with their four children in Decatur, Illinois.\n\nOn August 13, 1862, Boles enlisted as a private in Company B, 116th Illinois Regiment (his name is spelled \"Boles\" in the company records). He was a good soldier and became a First sergeant within a year. Boles was seriously wounded at the Battle of Vicksburg, and took part in Sherman's March to the Sea. He received brevet commissions as both second lieutenant and first lieutenant, and on June 7, 1865, was discharged with his regiment in Washington, D.C.. He returned home at last to his family in Illinois.\n\nIn 1867, Boles went prospecting for gold in Idaho and Montana. In a surviving letter to his wife from August 1871, he told her of an unpleasant encounter with some Wells, Fargo & Company agents and vowed to exact revenge. His wife never heard from him again, and in time she presumed he had died.\n\nBoles adopted the nickname \"Black Bart\" and proceeded to rob Wells Fargo stagecoaches at least 28 times across northern California between 1875 and 1883, including a number of times along the historic Siskiyou Trail between California and Oregon. He only left two poems – at the fourth and fifth robbery sites – but this came to be considered his signature and ensured his fame. Black Bart was quite successful, often taking in thousands of dollars a year.\n\nIronically, Boles was afraid of horses and made all of his robberies on foot. Together with his poems, this earned him notoriety. He supposedly never once fired a weapon during his years as an outlaw.\n\nBoles was invariably polite and used no foul language, despite its appearance in his poems. He dressed in a long linen duster coat and a bowler hat, using a flour sack with holes cut for his eyes as a mask. He brandished a shotgun, but never used it. These features became his trademarks.\n\nOn July 26, 1875, Boles robbed his first stagecoach in Calaveras County, California, on the road between Copperopolis and Milton. He spoke with a deep and resonant tone as he politely ordered stage driver John Shine to \"throw down the box\". As Shine handed over the strongbox, Boles shouted, \"If he dares to shoot, give him a solid volley, boys\". Seeing rifle barrels pointed at him from the nearby bushes, Shine quickly handed over the strongbox. Shine waited until Boles vanished and then went to recover the empty strongbox, but upon examining the area, he discovered that the \"men with rifles\" were actually carefully rigged sticks. Black Bart's first robbery netted him $160.\n\nHis last holdup took place on November 3, 1883, at the site of his first robbery on Funk Hill, southeast of the present town of Copperopolis. Driven by Reason McConnell, the stage had crossed the Reynolds Ferry on the old road from Sonora to Milton. The driver stopped at the ferry to pick up Jimmy Rolleri, the 19-year-old son of the ferry owner. Rolleri had his rifle with him and got off at the bottom of the hill to hunt along the creek and meet the stage on the other side. When he arrived at the western end, he found that the stage was not there and began walking up the stage road. Near the summit, he saw the stage driver and his team of horses.\n\nMcConnell told him that as the stage had approached the summit, Boles had stepped out from behind a rock with a shotgun in his hands. He forced McConnell to unhitch the team and take them over the crest of the hill. Boles then tried to remove the strongbox from the stage, but it had been bolted to the floor and took Boles some time to remove. Rolleri and McConnell went over the crest and saw Boles backing out of the stage with the strong box. McConnell grabbed Rolleri's rifle and fired at Boles twice but missed. Rolleri took the rifle and fired as Boles entered a thicket. He stumbled as if he had been hit. Running to the thicket, they found a small, blood-stained bundle of mail he had dropped.\n\nBoles had been wounded in the hand. After running a quarter of a mile, he stopped and wrapped a handkerchief around his hand to control the bleeding. He found a rotten log and stuffed the sack with the gold amalgam into it, keeping $500 in gold coins. He hid the shotgun in a hollow tree, threw everything else away, and fled. In a manuscript written by stage driver McConnell about 20 years after the robbery, he claimed he fired all four shots at Boles. The first missed, but he thought the second or third shot hit Boles, and was sure the fourth did. Boles only had the one wound to his hand.\n\nWhen Boles was wounded and forced to flee, he left behind several personal items. These included his eyeglasses, some food, and a handkerchief with a laundry mark F.X.O.7. Wells Fargo Detective James B. Hume found these at the scene. Hume and detective Harry N. Morse contacted every laundry in San Francisco about the laundry mark. After visiting nearly 90 laundries, they finally traced it to Ferguson & Bigg's California Laundry on Bush Street and were able to learn that the handkerchief belonged to a man who lived in a modest boarding house.\n\nThe detectives learned that Boles called himself a mining engineer and made frequent \"business trips\" that coincided with the Wells Fargo robberies. After initially denying he was Black Bart, Boles eventually admitted he had robbed several Wells Fargo stages, though he confessed only to crimes committed before 1879. Boles apparently believed the statute of limitations had expired on those robberies. When booked, he gave his name as T. Z. Spalding, but police found a Bible, a gift from his wife, inscribed with his real name.\n\nThe police report said that Boles was \"a person of great endurance. Exhibited genuine wit under most trying circumstances, and was extremely proper and polite in behavior. Eschews profanity.\"\n\nWells Fargo only pressed charges on the final robbery. Boles was convicted and sentenced to six years in San Quentin Prison, but he was released after four years for good behavior, in January 1888. His health had clearly deteriorated due to his time in prison; he had visibly aged, his eyesight was failing, and he had gone deaf in one ear. Reporters swarmed around him when he was released and asked if he was going to rob any more stagecoaches. \"No, gentlemen,\" he replied, smiling, \"I'm through with crime.\"\n\nBoles never returned to his wife after his release from prison, though he did write to her. In one of the letters he said he was tired of being shadowed by Wells Fargo, felt demoralized, and wanted to get away from everybody. In February 1888, Boles left the Nevada House and vanished. Hume said Wells Fargo tracked him to the Visalia House hotel in Visalia. The hotel owner said a man answering the description of Boles had checked in and then disappeared. Black Bart was last seen on February 28, 1888.\n\nOn November 14, 1888, another Wells Fargo stage was robbed by a masked highwayman. The lone bandit left a verse that read:\n\n<poem>\nSo here I've stood while wind and rain\nHave set the trees a-sobbin,\nAnd risked my life for that box,\nThat wasn't worth the robbin.</poem>\n\nDetective Hume was called to examine the note. After comparing it with the handwriting of genuine Black Bart poetry, he declared the new holdup was the work of a copycat criminal.\n\nThere are rumors that Wells Fargo had paid off the aging bandit and sent him away to keep him from robbing their stages, though Wells Fargo denied this.\n\nSome believe that Boles moved to New York City and lived quietly for the rest of his life, dying there in 1917, though this was never confirmed. Others believe the unlikely tale that the former poet bandit with failing eyesight had gone to the wilds of Montana or perhaps Nevada for another try at making a fortune. Johnny Thacker, a Wells Fargo detective who had participated in Boles's arrest, said in 1897 that he knew Boles to have gone to live in Japan.\n\nBoles, like many of his contemporaries, read dime novel–style serial adventure stories which appeared in local newspapers. In the early 1870s, the \"Sacramento Union\" ran a story called \"The Case of Summerfield\" by Caxton (a pseudonym of William Henry Rhodes). In the story, the villain dressed in black and had long unruly black hair, a large black beard, and wild grey eyes. The villain, named Black Bart, robbed Wells Fargo stagecoaches and brought great fear to those who were unlucky enough to cross him. Boles may have read the \"Sacramento Union\" story. He told a Wells Fargo detective that the name popped into his head when he was writing the first poem, and he used it.\n\nBoles left only two authenticated verses. The first was at the scene of the August 3, 1877, holdup of a stage traveling from Point Arena to Duncans Mills, California:\n\nThe second verse was left at the site of his July 25, 1878, holdup of a stage traveling from Quincy to Oroville, California:\n\n\n\nIn some areas where Black Bart operated, notably Redwood Valley, California, there is a traditional annual Black Bart Parade featuring a man dressed as Black Bart playing him as a stereotypical Old West villain. Also in Redwood Valley, California, the road leading from California State Route 20 to Hell's Delight Canyon is called Black Bart Trail. There is a large rock at the side of Highway 101 on the Ridgewood Summit between Redwood Valley and Willits known by locals as \"Black Bart Rock\", though it is not the actual rock behind which Black Bart was reputed to have hidden while robbing stagecoaches (that rock having been lost in a series of highway improvements over the years). In Duncans Mills, California, there is a plaque commemorating Black Bart and featuring his first poem. In Oroville, there is a road named Black Bart Road, as well as a stone mortar monument with a description of a robbery that took place at the scene.\n\nBlack Bart is a villain in \"The Stagecoach\", an album in the \"Lucky Luke\" Belgian comic book series by René Goscinny and Morris. While the hero manages to shoot and disable Bart's shotgun, he is unable to catch him. The depiction of the outlaw is extremely accurate and includes a transcription of his poems. It also mentions that Black Bart was identified and caught on the basis of a laundry mark.\n\nBlack Bart's life and exploits and his pursuit and capture by Hume and Morse are the subject of the 2017 novel \"The Ballad of Black Bart\" by Loren D. Estleman. The book was named Best Fiction in its \"True West Best of the West 2018 Western Books\" by True West Magazine.\n\nDan Duryea starred as Black Bart in a 1948 film produced by Universal Studios, \"Black Bart\".\n\nIn 1954, Arthur Space played Black Bart in the eponymous episode of Jim Davis's syndicated western television series, \"Stories of the Century\".\n\nDon Beddoe played Black Bart in the 1954 episode \"Black Bart The PO8\" of the western anthology series \"Death Valley Days\", hosted by Stanley Andrews. In the story line, Black Bart is a debonair poetry-writing former school teacher who turns to stagecoach robbery after his first holdup, a prank, pays handsomely. Wells, Fargo & Co. detectives track him down through a laundry mark. He was also pursued with a romantic interest by his landlady, Winona Webb (Helen Brown). He spent six years in the penitentiary, never to be heard from again.\n\nHe inspired on Blue Lotus album \"Across The Canyon\".\n\nThe song \"Black Bart\" by Danish rock band Volbeat is based on his robberies and features lines taken directly from his poems.\n\nLawman: The Life and Times of Harry Morse (1998) by John Boessenecker\n\n"}
{"id": "12323065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12323065", "title": "Conch awards", "text": "Conch awards\n\nThe Conch Awards recognise UK companies and individuals who have made outstanding contributions in the field of audio post production.\n\nThe Awards are held annually in London, England and are funded by the UK Screen Association.\n\nThe first Conch Awards were held in 2006.\n\nThis award recognises the UK's best re-recording mixer working in film.\nThis award is given to a person based in the UK (i.e. UK resident) that recognises his or her excellence in the field of film. The judging panel will take into consideration a number of factors such as: career and quality of work, contribution to the craft and audio profession.\nThe following professions within the film industry can apply: editor, designer, dialogue editor, supervising sound editor.\n\nThis award recognises the most promising new British talent in the audio post-production industry in any field. This person must have been involved in the creative side of the industry for less than 3 years. This award will be determined by the audio committee.\n\nThis award recognises the UK's best dubbing mixer working in TV.\n\nFor either film, TV or commercials. This award recognises a company whose predominant activity is in Sound Design and/or editorial. The award will recognise the team and the body of work. For either film, TV or commercials.\n\nThis award will be presented to the UK's leading production sound mixer.\n\nThis award recognises the UKs best sound recordist working in TV\n\nThis award is given to a person based in the UK (i.e. UK resident) that recognises his/her excellence in the field of television. The judging panel will take into consideration a number of factors such as: career and quality of work, contribution to the craft and audio profession.\n\nThe following professions within the TV industry can apply: editor, designer, dialogue editor, supervising sound editor.\n\nThe winner of this award will be a programme that has shown audio excellence in TV drama. This category is open to both British and International TV drama providing that the audio post-production has (in full or part) been carried out in the UK.\n\nThe winner of this award will have shown audio excellence in a British or International TV entertainment programme where the audio post-production has (in full or part) been carried out in the UK.\n\nThe winner of this award will be a programme that has shown audio excellence in a British or International TV or Film documentary where the audio post-production has (in full or part) been carried out in the UK.\n\nThis award recognises sound excellence in a high budget feature film (>£10m) where the audio post-production has (in full or part) been carried out in the UK.\n\nThis award recognises sound excellence in a low budget feature film (<£10m) where the audio post-production has (in full or part) been carried out in the UK.\n\nThis award will be given to the Commercial/Promo Sound Facility that is deemed to have delivered the most interesting, challenging or creative work throughout the year.\n\nThis award will be given to the Film Sound Facility that is deemed to have delivered the most interesting, challenging or creative work throughout the year. (It includes ADR, foley or mixing studios).\n\nThis award will be given to the TV Sound Facility that is deemed to have delivered the most interesting, challenging or creative work throughout the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1507834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1507834", "title": "Fractured Flickers", "text": "Fractured Flickers\n\nFractured Flickers is a live-action syndicated half-hour television comedy show that was produced by Jay Ward, who is otherwise known for animated cartoons. The pilot film was produced in 1961 (hence the 1961 copyright notice on the animated main title), but the series was not completed until 1963. Twenty-six episodes were produced; they were syndicated by Desilu Productions and played for several years on local stations.\n\nHost Hans Conried introduced short \"flickers\" pieced together from silent film footage and from other older movies, overdubbed with newly written comic dialogue, music, and sound effects. The voices for these were provided by fellow Ward mainstays Paul Frees, June Foray, and Bill Scott. The earliest episodes have careful dubbing, with the actors and writers taking pains to synchronize the new dialogue with the actors' lip movements. Once the series had deadlines to face, however, the time-consuming dubbing was abandoned, and the later episodes do not bother with exact synchronization.\n\nTrue to the Jay Ward brand of humor, the dialogue was loaded with puns and one-line jokes. (One silent vignette was retitled \"The Barber of Stanwyck\", utilizing scenes from Douglas Fairbanks' 1920 silent classic, \"The Mark of Zorro\".) Movies, television, advertising, and even the \"Fractured Flickers\" series itself were fair game for merciless kidding. (Conried quipped, \"This is what we'll be doing for the next several weeks--or until someone finds out!\") The show was at its funniest when desecrating early melodramas with \"hip\" reinterpretations, such as presenting Rudolph Valentino as an insurance salesman or Lon Chaney, Sr.'s \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\" as \"Dinky Dunstan, Boy Cheerleader.\" (Lon Chaney, Jr. was not amused by the latter and attempted unsuccessfully to sue Jay Ward over it.) Many segments were vicious satires of television commercials; a typical \"word from our sponsor\" would have the announcer extolling the virtues of the item being advertised, accompanied by darkly humorous clips. A fly-by-night real estate development, for example, was illustrated with clips of buildings being destroyed by a cyclone (from \"Steamboat Bill, Jr.\" with Buster Keaton). And \"This moment of softness (explosions, wild parties, etc.) has been brought to you by Bee. Bee, the only tissue woven in mid-air by bees!\" Regular features were the \"Minute Mysteries\", featuring Stan Laurel as master detective Sherman Oaks (his scenes \"fractured\" from his 1925 short comedy, \"Dr. Pyckle and Mr. Pryde\"), and the weekly \"tributes\" to some American city.\n\nEach episode also featured a celebrity guest whom Conried would interview. Most were popular personalities of the 1960s such as Fabian, Bob Denver, Deborah Walley, Rod Serling, and Rose Marie. Many of them caught the spirit of the show, and answered Conried's questions with tongue in cheek.\n\nMany prominent figures of the 1960s were lampooned. A segment based on the Kennedy family (and produced long before air time) was excised from all copies of the series when John F. Kennedy was assassinated so that it was never shown. This segment remains lost to this day.\n\nThe entire series is available on a DVD set from VCI Entertainment.\n\nThe following stars, listed in order of appearance by episode number, conversed with Conried during the guest segments.\n\nAn interview with Johnny Weissmuller was filmed but not used; the interview with the Bullwinkle puppet may have been filmed as its replacement. Co-producer Bill Scott (Bullwinkle's voice) appears briefly in one episode as a delivery man.\n\n"}
{"id": "1862419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1862419", "title": "Hayist Bases Movement", "text": "Hayist Bases Movement\n\nHayist Bases Movement (in Spanish: \"Movimiento de Bases Hayistas\") was a splinter group of APRA in Peru that was founded in 1981. MBH was led by Andrés Townsend Ezcurra and Francisco Diez Canseco Távara.\n"}
{"id": "24384076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24384076", "title": "Institute of Asian and African Countries", "text": "Institute of Asian and African Countries\n\nThe Institute of Asian and African Countries at Lomonosov Moscow State University was founded in 1956 as the Institute of Oriental Languages and was renamed to the Institute of Asian and African Countries in 1972. It is the leading Russian Centre for Oriental Studies. It employs more than 250 members including 28 professors and 70 assistant professors. Many of them are well known as authors of fundamental studies, text-books and dictionaries for their translations of Japanese, Chinese, Sanskrit, Arabic, Hindi, Persian, Malay, Swahili and other Oriental and African texts of fiction. Nowadays a lot of Asian and African languages are taught in the Institute: Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Thai, Mongolian, Arabic, Sinhalese, Turkish, Hebrew, Urdu, Sanskrit and Swahili, Hausa, Amharic, Afrikaans, Fula and Zulu. \n\nThe graduates of the Institute get a diploma in \"Oriental and African Studies\" with a specialization in philology, political science, history and economics. \n\nThe staff of the Institute has worked out the syllabus and text books on History of Asian and African countries and on Oriental Literature as well as special books on languages, history, ethnology, geography and economics of the certain regions.\nMore than 40 oriental and West-European languages are being taught at the Institute.\nDirectors:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11285382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11285382", "title": "International Imitation Hemingway Competition", "text": "International Imitation Hemingway Competition\n\nAlso known as \"The Bad Hemingway Contest,\" The International Imitation Hemingway Competition is an annual writing competition begun in Century City, California. Started in 1977 as a \"promotional gag\", and held for nearly thirty years, the contest pays mock homage to Ernest Hemingway by encouraging authors to submit a 'really good page of really bad Hemingway' in a Hemingway-esque style.\n\nSubmissions have included such titles as \"Big Too-Hardened Liver\" (1992 winner), \"The Old Man and the Flea\" (2002 winner), \"The Bug Count also Rises,\" \"Across the Suburbs and Into the Express Lane at Von's\" (2000 winner, Scott Stavrou) and \"The Short, Happy Life of Frances' Comb.\"\n\nThe competition, as created, had two rules: mention Harry's Bar & Grill (the Venetian Harry's was long one of Hemingway's favorite watering holes) and be funny. First prize was round-trip tickets and dinner for two at Harry's in Florence, Italy.\n\nIn addition to the humor of the contest, there is irony in its existence, as Hemingway famously said: \"The step \"up\" from writing parodies is writing on the wall above the urinal.\" Nevertheless, the contest had thousands of dedicated enthusiasts among writers and Hemingway fans, drawing more than 24,000 entries in its first ten years of operation. Many notable literary figures judged the contest over the years, including Digby Diehl, Ray Bradbury, Barnaby Conrad, George Plimpton, Bernice Kert, Jack Hemingway, A. Scott Berg, and Joseph Wambaugh.\n\nIn the late 1970s, seeking to promote Harry's Bar & American Grill in Century City, California, bar owners Jerry Magnin and Larry Mindel consulted advertising executive Paul Keye, who suggested the contest to capitalize on Hemingway's literary references to \"Harry's\". The contest announcement in \"The New Yorker\" magazine stated, \"One very good page of very bad Hemingway will send you and a friend to Italy for dinner.\" For the 11th Annual Contest, to promote the contest's move from (closing) Century City to the San Francisco Harry's, PR firm Tellem Worldwide recruited noted San Francisco authors Herb Caen, Lawrence Ferlinghetti and Cyra McFadden as judges.\n\nIn 1988, after 11 years of contests, Spectrum Foods Inc., the new owners of Harry's in Los Angeles, ended their sponsorship of the contest because of escalating costs. At this time literary organization PEN Center West took over sponsorship. American Airlines' in-flight magazine \"American Way\" began printing contest-winning entries, and continued the grand prize of a flight to Italy. In 2000 United Airlines assumed sponsorship of the contest, publishing winning entries in their in-flight and online \"Hemispheres Magazine\". United Airlines' support continued until the 2005 contest. The final winning parody was entitled \"Da Movable Code.\"\n\nHemingway's spare writing style had often been imitated prior to the contest. Since then, two anthologies of Imitation Hemingway have been published (The Best of Bad Hemingway, Volumes I & II) and include contest winners as well as satires of Hemingway written by E. B. White, Raymond Chandler, F. Scott Fitzgerald and George Plimpton.\n\n"}
{"id": "33757735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33757735", "title": "Journal of Social Archaeology", "text": "Journal of Social Archaeology\n\nThe Journal of Social Archaeology is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of archaeology, in particular with regard to social interpretations of the past. Its editor-in-chief is Lynn Meskell (Stanford University), who established the journal in 2001. It is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\nThe \"Journal of Social Archaeology\" covers research on social approaches in archaeology, including feminism, queer theory, postcolonialism, social geography, literary theory, politics, anthropology, cognitive studies, and behavioural science, from prehistoric to present-day contexts. The journal also covers contemporary politics and heritage issues, and aims to break down the \"arbitrary and hegemonic boundaries between North American, Classical, Near Eastern, Mesoamerican, European and Australian archaeologies – and beyond\".\n\nThe \"Journal of Social Archaeology\" is published in February, June, and October. Each issue contains 5-7 articles, occasionally featuring interviews with social theorists considered \"prominent\" by the editors.\n\nThe \"Journal of Social Archaeology\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "57087337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57087337", "title": "Kathleen A. Deagan", "text": "Kathleen A. Deagan\n\nKathleen A. Deagan is an American archaeologist who primarily focuses on excavations in Florida and the Caribbean. Known for her historic archaeology which uncovered the colonial past of \"La Florida\", and work in St. Augustine, she has received multiple awards and honors, including the Award of Merit in 1992 and the J. C. Harrington Award in 2004, both bestowed by the Society for Historical Archaeology.\n\nKathleen Anne Deagan was born in the middle of the 20th century in Portsmouth, Virginia, while her father, a meteorologist with the U. S. Navy was stationed at the Norfolk Naval Shipyard. The oldest child in a Catholic family of four children, she attended more than twenty schools before graduating from high school, as her father, a specialist in tropical storms, was assigned to hurricane prone places like England, Guam, the Philippines, and Taiwan, as well as in the United States, Florida, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. Most of the schools were Catholic institutions like the Academy of Our Lady of Guam, one of four high schools Deagan attended.\n\nDeagan enrolled at the University of Florida in 1965 to study education, then journalism, social work and counseling, appropriate career choices for women at the time, but was drawn to anthropology courses. Studying under Charles H. Fairbanks, she switched her major and graduated in 1970. \nEnrolling in graduate school at the University of California, Davis to study museology, Deagan quickly left and spent some time in San Francisco. In 1971, she returned to the University of Florida and completed a PhD in archaeology under Fairbanks in 1974.\n\nThat same year Deagan was hired as an assistant professor at Florida State University and expanded work begun during her dissertation in St. Augustine on the 18th-century history of the city. In 1979, her research shifted to the 16th-century population, making comparisons between the two eras and analyzing the town's development. Her study confirmed the rapid decline of the indigenous native population, the Timucua, after contact and the replacement of them with other indigenous peoples. It also highlighted a difference in Spanish colonization from British colonization in that Deagan discovered Spanish households incorporated indigenous foods and goods, whereas British households followed British custom. Her later work in Latin America and the Caribbean confirmed the pattern to be consistent in Spanish colonies.\n\nIn 1981, when Fairbanks retired from the University of Florida, Deagan was recruited to fill his post at the Florida State Museum and take over the direction of the ongoing project at the Puerto Real settlement near present-day Cap-Haïtien, Haiti. The colony, established on Hispaniola by Nicolás de Ovando y Cáceres, thrived from 1503 to 1578. Running the annual field schools at the site, in 1983, Deagan expanded their search to include the nearby site where the \"Santa María\", one of Christopher Columbus's ships ran aground in 1492. Based on a review of evidence at the site, known as both \"La Navidad\" and \"En Bas Saline\", Deagan concluded that the shipwreck was not due to a weather related cause, but negligence on behalf of the crew. While working on the site in Haiti, she met Lawrence Dean Harris (1942-2010), a wildlife conservationist who was in Haiti to consult on a project to create a national park in the country. Soon after, Harris, a father of four, and Deagan married.\n\nSimultaneously working sites in Florida and the Caribbean, in 1986, Deagan began fieldwork at Ft. Mosé, a legally sanctioned, buffer zone community of free blacks established as a strategic defensive barrier to northern British colonies. Working in conjunction with Jane Landers, who specializes in African American history, worked for six months to evaluate documents from Spanish archives on the site prior to excavations. While many histories up to that point had included interaction with Spaniards and Native American peoples, few had included interaction with Africans and their findings sparked additional scholarship, as well as a movement to preserve the site as a National Historic Landmark. Deagan's next Caribbean project, in the Dominican Republic began in 1989 with an investigation of La Isabela, Columbus's first permanent settlement in the Americas. Because the community existed from 1493 to 1498, it was a \"wholly 15th-century\" location, yielding information on period flora and fauna, as well as social construction and technology. In 1992, Deagan was honored with the Award of Merit from the Society for Historical Archaeology.\n\nIn 1993, Deagan discovered the original settlement site of the fort at St. Augustine. For sixty years, archaeologists had searched for the original location of the fort, built by Pedro Menéndez de Avilés in 1565. The later Castillo de San Marcos was built in the 17th century and lies to the south of the original fort, which was located near the monument to \"Nuestra Senora de la Leche\" adjacent to the Fountain of Youth Archaeological Park. Though artifacts and house footings had indicated 16th-century use of the site, the find of the moat confirmed the location and established conclusively that the Spaniards had colonized Florida long before the British had established the colony of Jamestown or the Plymouth Colony. In 1995, Deagan initiated an excavation at Concepción de la Vega in the interior of the Dominican Republic. The settlement was founded in 1496 and occupied until 1562.\n\nThat same year, 1995, Deagan was honored as a Distinguished Research Curator of the Florida Museum of Natural History. In 1997, she was honored with an award as an Outstanding Alumna of the University of Florida and in 1999 was designated by the research foundation of the university as a Distinguished Research Professor. She was the 2004 recipient of the J. C. Harrington Award of the Society for Historical Archaeology. In 2007 Deagan was awarded the \"Order of La Florida\" by the City of St. Augustine for her work in developing the history of the city. Retiring from teaching in 2010, she was appointed as the Lockwood Professor of Florida and Caribbean Archaeology and received an honorary doctor of laws from Flagler College in 2011.\n\nContinuing her work as curator of the Florida Museum of Natural History and leading excavations in the area around St. Augustine, Deagan began to search for the field notes and artifacts which had been unearthed by archaeologist John Mann Goggin in the early 1950s. In 2013, she received a telephone call from a woman in Martinez, California who had gathered all the materials to complete his graduate work in Connecticut. Though he never finished his degree, the student kept the materials and moved them with his family to Chicago, later to New Mexico and finally to California. When he died, his daughter discovered the items in the family garage and Deagan arranged shipment of them to Florida. The 12,000 artifacts and field notes helped determine the size of the original settlement and led to clues of a possible new defensive construction, which might indicate an additional fort. The following year, the owners of the Fountain of Youth Park donated 97,000 artifacts which had been excavated from the property over a 65-year period to the museum and Deagan returned to the Park to evaluate the site anew from her discoveries in the field notes from 1950. In 2017 the research curator emerita, retired as the Lockwood Professor, but continued to pursue excavations in St. Augustine.\n\nOver her career, Deagan authored and edited over a dozen books and monographs, over two-dozen chapters of books and over four-dozen articles. She presented over one hundred papers and was recognized with book awards from the Florida Historical Society for her work on Fort Mose and the Society for American Archaeology for her work on La Isabela. Among her most noted contributions are:\n\n"}
{"id": "7111833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7111833", "title": "Kazimieras Jaunius", "text": "Kazimieras Jaunius\n\nKazimieras Jaunius (1848–1908) was a Lithuanian priest and linguist. He started his studies in linguistics in the end of the 19th century in Kaunas. While Jaunius did not publish much, his major achievements include research on the similarity of Lithuanian to other languages and the systematization of research of Lithuanian dialects. He collaborated with Jan Niecisław Baudouin de Courtenay and Jonas Basanavičius. \n\nHis famous disciple is Kazimieras Būga, who from 1903 worked as Jaunius' personal secretary. Būga collected most of Jaunius' work, who was known not to be keen to write his thoughts down. Būga prepared four volumes of Jaunius' writings for print.\n"}
{"id": "35919456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35919456", "title": "Legal awareness", "text": "Legal awareness\n\nLegal awareness, sometimes called public legal education, is the empowerment of individuals regarding issues involving the law. Legal awareness helps to promote consciousness of legal culture, participation in the formation of laws and the rule of law.\n\nPublic legal education, sometimes called civics education, comprises a range of activities intended to build public awareness and skills related to law and the justice system. This term also refers to the fields of practice and study concerned with those activities, and to a social and professional movement that advocates greater societal commitment to educating people about the law. Anna-Marie Marshall explains that \"in order to realize their rights, people need to take the initiative to articulate them. This initiative, in turn, depends on the availability and the relevance of legal schema to people confronting problems.\" This is because laws exist as part of a larger organizational ecosystem in which the interests of the organization as well as those of the actors become inextricably linked to the ways in which they are enacted.\nDistinct from the education of students in law school seeking a degree in law (which is often simply called \"legal education\") and the continuing professional education of lawyers and judges (which is sometimes called \"continuing legal education\"), public legal education is principally aimed at people who are not lawyers, judges, or degree-seeking law students.\n\nThe term \"public legal education\" (PLE) is related to, and may encompass, several similar terms. The terms \"public legal information\" and \"public legal education and information\" (PLEI) emphasize a difference between educating and providing information. The term \"community legal education\" is common in Australia and the United States, where it often refers to community-based public legal education activities led by legal aid organizations. The term \"law-related education\" (LRE) usually refers to public legal education in primary and secondary schools (and sometimes in higher education), as opposed to PLE for adults and outside of school.\n\nAccording to the American Bar Association, Commission on Public Understanding, legal awareness is, \"the ability to make critical judgments about the substance of the law, the legal process, and available legal resources and to effectively utilize the legal system and articulate strategies to improve it is legal literacy\".\n\nThe Canadian Bar Association (1992, 23) defines legal literacy as, \"the ability to understand words used in a legal context, to draw conclusions from them, and then to use those conclusions to take action.\"\n\nWith little change to the Multiple Action Research Group's(MARG, an NGO working for the promotion of legal awareness) definition, legal awareness can be defined as, \"critical knowledge of legal provisions and processes, coupled with the skills to use this knowledge to respect and realize rights and entitlements\".\n\nThe \"continuum approach\" considers legal literacy as, \"a capacity spread along a continuum, with lawyers and judges at one end and relatively incapable laypersons at the other\". This approach was adopted by the legal scholar White who considered legal literacy to mean, \"that degree of competence in legal discourse required for meaningful and active life in our increasingly legalistic and litigious culture\".\n\nAuthor Bilder (1999) defines legal literacy as a, \"spectrum of functional skills\", related to the conduct of litigation. The continuum approach explains, \"a certain degree of legal literacy is required for effective participation in modern society, but it is not necessary for the average citizen to reach the professional standard of 'thinking (and writing) like a lawyer.'\"\n\nOne of the recent approaches considers legal literacy as a metaphor. According to this view, the term is \"intended to suggest some parallels between the institution of the law, and a system of language to be mastered, knowledge gained and understanding achieved\". These authors suggest that the term legal literacy can also function as a model for educators who seek to promote such literacy. Proponents of legal literacy may thus look to the teaching of language for guidance.\n\nAnoop Kumar, a researcher of Legal Literacy Mission, says in his study, \"the legislature of the state and the parliament, while enacting the legislation, consider the objectives of it. Some laws lay down the substantive rights of the masses and some touch upon the procedural aspect of certain laws. But it is due to lack of awareness of beneficiaries that most of the legislations are ineffective at the stage of their execution.\"\n\nLegal awareness can empower people to demand justice, accountability and effective remedies at all levels. Legal needs always stand to become crisis oriented because their ignorance prevents them from anticipating legal troubles and approaching a lawyer for consultation and advice in time. This magnifies the impact of their legal troubles and difficulties when they come.\n\nWithout (legal) literacy people can get intimidated and alienated from law. This may evolve into a situation which results in people coming into conflict with the law, or being unable to obtain help from it. Courts have acknowledged the barrier raised by a lack of literacy to asserting guaranteed rights effectively. Low literacy may block people’s access to justice. At times, literacy requirements have been used to block access to rights and benefits\n\nGoals of the legal literacy programs can be broadly divided in three types. Namely educational, competency and critical.\n\nIn \"Reading the Legal World\", author Laird Hunter expects legal literacy to achieve:\n\"People using the legal system must be able to guide themselves through a process that they understand [...] and, at appropriate places along the way\"\n\nDepending on the goals there can be a number of objectives for legal literacy programs.\n\n\nThere have been many cases where governments have promoted long-term legal literacy missions or awareness campaigns. An example of this is when institutions arrange legal literacy events.\n\nLegal awareness is also achieved through camps, lectures, and interactive workshops or crash programs on the essential and elementary legal laws. Among the general public, many wish to spend time listening to scholars on contemporary issues that have significant bearing on the rights and livelihood of ordinary people. Other methods are road shows, radio talks, street and theatre plays, as well as the publication of relevant books, periodicals, posters, and charts that deal with particular laws, the distribution of pamphlets, brochures, and stickers, the display of paintings, illustrations in comics, and other ways to ensure publicity for various legal mobilisation activities.\n\nStrategically located display boards in public places (railway stations, bus stations, market places, in front of major government offices and police stations) are also used to help government officials, police, and the public to understand the spirit of law.\n\nAccording to Lorenzo Cotula, laws are usually published in the official gazette, few people outside legal circles have access to legal information. Illiteracy, economic barriers, language barriers, social taboos and a lack of zeal among the legal fraternity may lead to obstacles in gaining requisite levels of legal literacy. According to Hanna Hasl-Kelchner, at times lack of zeal among lawyers make them prone to saying no and killing a deal rather than working through the issues and finding solutions that are both practical and legally sound.\n\nIn a note to the UN General Assembly 67th session, the UN Secretary General states, \"the deprivations that persons living in poverty encounter throughout their lives — lack of access to quality education, reduced access to information, limited political voice and social capital — translate into lower levels of legal literacy and awareness of their rights, creating social obstacles to seeking redress\".\n\nThe absence of a legal culture and the resulting illiteracy are the main reasons for the large number of cases in the courts. If the accused citizen knows that an act is a crime punishable by law, they may not do it.\n\nIn the domain of law a vast category of users need to exchange legal information worldwide and carry out activities in a context where a common understanding of law beyond language is highly desirable. However, this requirement is hard to meet, due to the variety of languages and modes in which the legal discourse is expressed as well as to the diversity of legal orders and the legal concepts on which these systems are founded.\n\nAbout lesser significance to legal literacy in US legal education, Leonard J. Long professor of law, Quinnipiac University School of Law says, \"law students, law firms, consumers of legal services, and society as a whole would benefit from having a legal profession comprised and dominated by people who are literate in American law, its history, and its jurisprudence. But legal literacy is not promoted mainly because it is not viewed as necessary for the practice of law. This is part of the anti-intellectual tradition in American law generally, and in American legal education specifically\".\n\nCorporate, institutions and NGOs are subject to and are supposed to follow various sets of laws.\n\nLegal awareness is an important part of professional work life. According to John Akula, when law-sensitive issues arise, corporate executives often find themselves in what is, for them, unmapped territory, often without requisite law training. When corporate executives work with attorneys they need to develop a common language to bridge probable communication gaps to achieve legal astituteness.\n\nAccording to Hanna Hasl-Kelchner, legal literacy can help to bridge the gap between law and business by simplifying legal terms into language that makes business sense and offers a new way to think about the law as a useful business tool.\nShe says, \"corporate legal literacy involves balanced understanding of cross disciplinary influences bringing in legal risk exposure, avoiding lawsuits and transforming potential business legal issues that threaten growth and profitability, into opportunities for building stronger business relationships, delivering sustainable stakeholder value, improving competitive advantage and foremost embedding compliance into the corporate culture to achieve organizational excellence\".\n\nAccording to Hasl-Kelchner, corporate legal literacy tackles companies' legal risk profiles on both the employee and organizational levels. There is a need to identify the infrastructure needed to support legal literacy and promote effective communications throughout the organization.\n\nGeorge Pulikuthiyil, executive director of NGO Jananeethi in his essay \"Legal Literacy for Social Empowerment\" says that, 'Well educated and highly placed professionals too are often not aware of provisions in laws and implications of their violations. Many would not know the nitty-gritty of several statutory laws and their applications. ... However, the fact remains that vast majority of the officers and professionals like clinical psychologists, therapeutic counsellors, welfare officers, social workers, institutional heads and academia are ignorant of their role and responsibilities as contemplated in the Act. NGOs do take pains to organize workshops to sensitize them with respect to such new generation legislations wherein the pro-active role of various stake holders are great significance.' George Pulikuthiyil further believes non-governmental organizations, community-based organizations, faith groups, various service providers, trade unions, youth clubs, police personnel, elected representatives to local bodies, PG students of social work and service organizations also have larger scope of improving the quality of life provided they are made conversant with respective legislations.\n\nApart from external legal advisors, internal legal officers and in certain countries like Australia and India, The company secretary is responsible for advising on good governance practices and compliance of corporate governance norms as prescribed under various corporate, securities and other business laws, regulations and guidelines made thereunder.\n\nThere are certain related concepts including legal consciousness, legal mobilization and legal socialization, legal empowerment, that helps to put legal literacy in perspective.\n\nDespite semantic proximity education of civics, civics literacy and legal literacy are not exactly the same. In the \"legal literacy\" semantic components are the dominant notion of the \"right,\" \"law,\" \"responsibility to the law,\" and \"civic literacy\" added to them the concept of \"civil society\", \"individual rights and freedoms\" and \"man's responsibility to civil society\". In the formal civic education system, human rights can be taken up as a part of civic education, values education and social studies, though they may have the limitation of presenting only certain aspects of human rights rather than their integrated whole, and duties of citizens may be overly emphasized to the detriment of certain rights and freedoms.\n\nAt the elementary school level, usually minimal level legal literacy introduction is taught through civics, but which is not necessarily adequate for the rest of life. Applied legal education is imparted through business and commerce school and some other branches. News media also plays a part, but is unable to meet all socio-legal literacy needs. NGOs and legal aid centres may provide for limited legal literacy related to specific thrust areas.\n\nChina conducts Nationwide Legal Awareness Raising Campaigns (NLARC) this five-year program has been conducted since 1986. National Legal Services Authority (India) conducted a five-year nationwide \"National Legal Literacy Mission\" from 2005 to 2010.\n\nBetween March 20 to April 5 annual legal awareness celebrations take place in Australia. Australian Employee Legal Awareness Day is held annually on February 13. In India, National Legal Literacy Day is on November 9.\n\nThe Internet as a legal research tool is advantageous for most primary legal research materials, which can be located for free to supplement fee-based services and library collections. The Internet offers increased access to resources, low- or no-cost access, and real-time information via social media.\n\nAuthor Roger Smith, an expert in domestic and international aspects of legal aid, human rights and access to justice; says in his article \"IT changes bring hope – and hype\", that Technology offers the opportunity significantly to cut costs and to leverage existing provision. Author Roger Smith further believes there is enough to suggest potential usage of internet and its interactive capacities of internet in information sharing. According to Roger Smith (Internet and) Technology also opens up the possibility of providing ‘just in time’ public legal education which might just be the answer to the yawning gap in family law advice. Roger Smith further says 'technology can be used to construct a network of (online legal) provision which provides the level of legal advice and assistance to which people are entitled - even in times of austerity.'\n\nFounded in 1992 by Peter Martin and Tom Bruce, Legal Information Institute (LII) a non-profit, public service of Cornell Law School that provides no-cost access to current American and international legal research sources online at law.cornell.edu is a pioneer in the delivery of legal information online. LII was the first law site developed on the internet. Public service of Cornell Law School promotes Legal Information Institute which in turn promotes Free Access to Law Movement and work on principles adopted at Montral declaration (2002 and amended subsequently); which advocates publishing of public legal information via internet.\n\nIn India, MARG(Multiple Action Research Group), an organization working for empowerment is using internet and social networking sites to empower netizens. The organization posts every Friday \"friday facts\" in their Facebook, Twitter & Instagram pages.These posts/pictures focuses on rights of the citizens and all other important information about laws in India.\n\nBar councils, lawyer federations and various NGOs take the lead in promoting legal awareness and legal literacy. In India, as per the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, the National Legal Services Authority (NLSA) has been designated to take appropriate measures for spreading legal literacy and legal awareness amongst the people.\n\nIn Indiana, in the United States, Outreach for Legal Literacy (OLL) is a community service program in which law students teach law to fifth-graders in local elementary schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "7483909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7483909", "title": "List of Caribbean countries by population", "text": "List of Caribbean countries by population\n\nThis list of Caribbean countries and dependent territories is sorted by the mid-year normalized demographic projections. Inland and island countries in the Caribbean region, even if technically not in the Caribbean Sea itself, are included. Some lists include Bermuda, which is located about 1,000 miles from any Caribbean island, and Belize. For related lists, see Caribbean-related below.\n\n"}
{"id": "56357199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56357199", "title": "List of French Grammy Award winners and nominees", "text": "List of French Grammy Award winners and nominees\n\nThe following is a list of Grammy Awards winners and nominees from France:\n"}
{"id": "48100417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48100417", "title": "List of U.S. states by homicide rate", "text": "List of U.S. states by homicide rate\n\nThis is a list of U.S. states by homicide rate according to FBI Uniform Crime Reports.\n\nRates are calculated per 100,000 population.\n\n"}
{"id": "27563386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27563386", "title": "List of participants of the Gaza flotilla", "text": "List of participants of the Gaza flotilla\n\nThere were 688 participants on the Gaza flotilla from 41 nations. The flotilla was raided and captured by Israeli naval forces on 31 May 2010, when nine participants were killed and seven IDF commandos were injured.\n\nNotable flotilla passengers included Mairead Corrigan, Nobel Peace prize winner, Denis Halliday, former UN Assistant Secretary-General, Edward Peck, former U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, Fehmi Bülent Yıldırım, the İHH president, Haneen Zoubi, an Israeli-Arab member of Knesset, Raed Salah, the leader of the northern branch of the Islamic Movement in Israel, Hilarion Capucci, a retired titular archbishop previously convicted by Israel of smuggling arms to the Palestine Liberation Army.\n\nThese are the nationalities participated:\n\nSome people who were on board MV Rachel Corrie are:\n\n"}
{"id": "40837219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40837219", "title": "List of utopian literature", "text": "List of utopian literature\n\nThis is a list of utopian literature. A utopia is a community or society possessing highly desirable or perfect qualities. It is a common literary theme, especially in speculative fiction and science fiction.\n\nThe word \"utopia\" was coined in Greek language by Sir Thomas More for his 1516 book \"Utopia\", but the genre has roots dating back to antiquity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5906291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5906291", "title": "List of works by Michelangelo", "text": "List of works by Michelangelo\n\nThe following is a list of works of painting, sculpture and architecture by the Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo. Lost works are included, but not commissions that Michelangelo never made. Michelangelo also left many drawings, sketches, and some works in poetry.\n"}
{"id": "20597036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20597036", "title": "Ludovisi Battle sarcophagus", "text": "Ludovisi Battle sarcophagus\n\nThe Ludovisi Battle sarcophagus or \"Great\" Ludovisi sarcophagus is an ancient Roman sarcophagus dating to around AD 250–260 from a tomb near the Porta Tiburtina. It is also known as the Via Tiburtina Sarcophagus, though other sarcophagi have been found there. It is known for its densely populated, anti-classical composition of \"writhing and highly emotive\" Romans and Goths, and is an example of the battle scenes favored in Roman art during the Crisis of the Third Century. Discovered in 1621 and named for its first modern owner, Ludovico Ludovisi, the sarcophagus is now displayed at the Palazzo Altemps in Rome, part of the National Museum of Rome.\n\nThe sarcophagus is a late outlier in a group of about twenty-five late Roman battle sarcophagi, the others all apparently dating to 170-210, made in Rome or in some cases Athens. These derive from Hellenistic monuments from Pergamon in Asia Minor showing Pergamene victories over the Gauls, and were all presumably commissioned for military commanders. The Portonaccio sarcophagus is the best known and most elaborate of the main Antonine group and shows both considerable similarities to the Great Ludovisi sarcophagus, and a considerable contrast in style and mood.\n\nThe sarcophagus measures 1.53m in height and is made from Proconnesian marble, a medium characterized by dark gray stripes and a medium to coarse grain. It is decorated in a very high relief with many elements of the composition cut completely free of the background. Overlapping figures entirely fill the image space, allowing no room to depict a background. In many battle sarcophagi the side panels show more tranquil scenes, but here the battle continues round both sides.\n\nThe lid of the sarcophagus depicts barbarian children handed over to a Roman general by men presumably their fathers. Children were sometimes taken into Roman custody as pledges of peace, and might be reeducated as Romans. The lid, which was broken in 1945 while on display in Mainz, also shows a bust of a female figure.\n\nThe central figure of the tortuous composition on the front is a young Roman military commander on horseback, presumed to represent the deceased. His face is serene, and his arm is extended confidently in a \"gesture which is difficult to interpret but seems to be one of farewell\". An X-mark on his forehead has been interpreted as the cross received by initiates into the Mithraic mysteries as a sign of the god Mithras' favor. The Mithraic religion was popular among Roman soldiers. The valor \"(virtus)\" shown by the horseman may represent real-life bravery on the battlefield, but the religious connotation of the X may suggest victory over death, a theme of mounted warriors in funerary art. The horseman probably represents the deceased.\n\nThe figure is sometimes identified as the younger son of the emperor Decius, Hostilian, who reigned briefly in the year 251. Decius and his older son, Herennius, whom he had made his co-ruler, were killed in battle against a federation of Scythians under the command of the Gothic king Cniva. They were the first Roman emperors to die in battle at the hands of a foreign enemy. Despite the battle imagery, Hostilian himself died of plague.\nThe sarcophagus contains many precise depictions of military details such as the \"draco\" military standard and a detailed mail shirt of the longer length characteristic of the period.\n\nThe undercutting of the deep relief exhibits virtuosic and very time-consuming drill work that conveys chaos and a sense of weary, open-ended victory. It differs from earlier battle scenes on sarcophagi in which more shallowly carved figures are less convoluted and intertwined. Describing it as \"the finest of the third-century sarcophagi\", art historian Donald Strong says:\n\nThe carving is so deep that the forms are almost completely offset from the background resulting in three, or even four, layers of various figures and forms. What is more, overlapping figures fill the image space entirely, allowing no room to depict a background. Thus, the sense of space has been eliminated, giving rise to chaos and a sense of weary, open-ended victory. The effect of movement in the scene is evident and, unlike many battle sarcophagi which have more tranquil scenes on the side panels, the battle events continue all the way around the sarcophagus. The perspective constructed is also notable, although certainly not linear.\nFrom the time of the reign of the Antonine emperors, Roman art increasingly depicted battles as chaotic, packed, single-plane scenes presenting dehumanized barbarians mercilessly subjugated by Roman military might, at a time when in fact the Roman Empire was undergoing constant invasions from external threats that led to the fall of the empire in the West. Although armed, the barbarian warriors, usually identified as Goths, are depicted as helpless to defend themselves. Various aspects of the execution of the work accentuate the contrast between the Romans and the Goths. The Roman figures are all clean-shaven and wear armour and helmets, which distinguish them clearly from the Goths, who are unarmoured and wear distinctive clothing, beards, and hairstyles. The Romans are given a nobler appearance with idealised physical features which contrast with the Goths who are almost caricatures, with enlarged noses, pronounced cheekbones, and wild expressions on their faces. The alternation of light/dark accentuates the contrast between the two groups. Shadows and deep carving are mostly found in the faces and hair of the Goths whereas the smooth surface of the marble is reserved for the Romans, who are less deeply carved.\n\nDifferences in scale between the figures, though present, are far less marked than in the earlier Portonaccio sarcophagus, such that the general is only slightly larger than his troops or enemies. Nor is the general seen wearing a helmet or in actual combat, as in the earlier sarcophagi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19877", "title": "Map", "text": "Map\n\nA map is a symbolic depiction emphasizing relationships between elements of some space, such as objects, regions, or themes.\n\nMany maps are static, fixed to paper or some other durable medium, while others are dynamic or interactive. Although most commonly used to depict geography, maps may represent any space, real or fictional, without regard to context or scale, such as in brain mapping, DNA mapping, or computer network topology mapping. The space being mapped may be two dimensional, such as the surface of the earth, three dimensional, such as the interior of the earth, or even more abstract spaces of any dimension, such as arise in modeling phenomena having many independent variables.\n\nAlthough the earliest maps known are of the heavens, geographic maps of territory have a very long tradition and exist from ancient times. The word \"map\" comes from the medieval Latin \"Mappa mundi\", wherein \"mappa\" meant napkin or cloth and \"mundi\" the world. Thus, \"map\" became the shortened term referring to a two-dimensional representation of the surface of the world.\n\nCartography or \"map-making\" is the study and practice of crafting representations of the Earth upon a flat surface (see History of cartography), and one who makes maps is called a cartographer.\n\nRoad maps are perhaps the most widely used maps today, and form a subset of navigational maps, which also include aeronautical and nautical charts, railroad network maps, and hiking and bicycling maps. In terms of quantity, the largest number of drawn map sheets is probably made up by local surveys, carried out by municipalities, utilities, tax assessors, emergency services providers, and other local agencies. Many national surveying projects have been carried out by the military, such as the British Ordnance Survey: a civilian government agency, internationally renowned for its comprehensively detailed work.\n\nIn addition to location information, maps may also be used to portray contour lines indicating constant values of elevation, temperature, rainfall, etc.\n\nThe orientation of a map is the relationship between the directions on the map and the corresponding compass directions in reality. The word \"orient\" is derived from Latin \"oriens\", meaning east. In the Middle Ages many maps, including the T and O maps, were drawn with east at the top (meaning that the direction \"up\" on the map corresponds to East on the compass). The most common cartographic convention is that north is at the top of a map.\n\nMaps not oriented with north at the top:\n\nMany maps are drawn to a scale expressed as a ratio, such as 1:10,000, which means that 1 unit of measurement on the map corresponds to 10,000 of that same unit on the ground. The scale statement can be accurate when the region mapped is small enough for the curvature of the Earth to be neglected, such as a city map. Mapping larger regions, where curvature cannot be ignored, requires projections to map from the curved surface of the Earth to the plane. The impossibility of flattening the sphere to the plane without distortion means that the map cannot have constant scale. Rather, on most projections the best that can be attained is accurate scale along one or two paths on the projection. Because scale differs everywhere, it can only be measured meaningfully as point scale per location. Most maps strive to keep point scale variation within narrow bounds. Although the scale statement is nominal it is usually accurate enough for most purposes unless the map covers a large fraction of the earth. At the scope of a world map, scale as a single number is practically meaningless throughout most of the map. Instead, it usually refers to the scale along the equator.\n\nLarge scale maps, (e.g. 1:10,000), cover relatively small regions in great detail and small scale maps, (e.g. 1:10,000,000), cover large regions such as nations, continents and the whole globe. The large/small terminology arose from the practice of writing scales as numerical fractions: 1/10,000 is larger than 1/10,000,000. There is no exact dividing line between large and small but 1/100,000 might well be considered as a medium scale. Examples of large scale maps are the 1:25,000 maps produced for hikers; on the other hand maps intended for motorists at 1:250,000 or 1:1,000,000 are small scale.\n\nIt is important to recognize that even the most accurate maps sacrifice a certain amount of accuracy in scale to deliver a greater visual usefulness to its user. For example, the width of roads and small streams are exaggerated when they are too narrow to be shown on the map at true scale; that is, on a printed map they would be narrower than could be perceived by the naked eye. The same applies to computer maps where the smallest unit is the pixel. A narrow stream say must be shown to have the width of a pixel even if at the map scale it would be a small fraction of the pixel width.\nSome maps, called cartograms, have the scale deliberately distorted to reflect information other than land area or distance. For example, this map (at the right) of Europe has been distorted to show population distribution, while the rough shape of the continent is still discernible.\n\nAnother example of distorted scale is the famous London Underground map. The basic geographical structure is respected but the tube lines (and the River Thames) are smoothed to clarify the relationships between stations. Near the center of the map stations are spaced out more than near the edges of map.\n\nFurther inaccuracies may be deliberate. For example, cartographers may simply omit military installations or remove features solely in order to enhance the clarity of the map. For example, a road map may not show railroads, smaller waterways or other prominent non-road objects, and even if it does, it may show them less clearly (e.g. dashed or dotted lines/outlines) than the main roads. Known as decluttering, the practice makes the subject matter that the user is interested in easier to read, usually without sacrificing overall accuracy. Software-based maps often allow the user to toggle decluttering between ON, OFF and AUTO as needed. In AUTO the degree of decluttering is adjusted as the user changes the scale being displayed.\n\nMaps of the world or large areas are often either 'political' or 'physical'. The most important purpose of the political map is to show territorial borders; the purpose of the physical is to show features of geography such as mountains, soil type or land use including infrastructure such as roads, railroads and buildings. Topographic maps show elevations and relief with contour lines or shading. Geological maps show not only the physical surface, but characteristics of the underlying rock, fault lines, and subsurface structures.\nMaps that depict the surface of the Earth also use a projection, a way of translating the three-dimensional real surface of the geoid to a two-dimensional picture. Perhaps the best-known world-map projection is the Mercator projection, originally designed as a form of nautical chart.\nAeroplane pilots use aeronautical charts based on a Lambert conformal conic projection, in which a cone is laid over the section of the earth to be mapped. The cone intersects the sphere (the earth) at one or two parallels which are chosen as standard lines. This allows the pilots to plot a great-circle route approximation on a flat, two-dimensional chart.\n\nFrom the last quarter of the 20th century, the indispensable tool of the cartographer has been the computer. Much of cartography, especially at the data-gathering survey level, has been subsumed by Geographic Information Systems (GIS). The functionality of maps has been greatly advanced by technology simplifying the superimposition of spatially located variables onto existing geographical maps. Having local information such as rainfall level, distribution of wildlife, or demographic data integrated within the map allows more efficient analysis and better decision making. In the pre-electronic age such superimposition of data led Dr. John Snow to identify the location of an outbreak of cholera. Today, it is used by agencies of the human kind, as diverse as wildlife conservationists and militaries around the world.\n\nEven when GIS is not involved, most cartographers now use a variety of computer graphics programs to generate new maps.\n\nInteractive, computerised maps are commercially available, allowing users to \"zoom in\" or \"zoom out\" (respectively meaning to increase or decrease the scale), sometimes by replacing one map with another of different scale, centered where possible on the same point. In-car global navigation satellite systems are computerised maps with route-planning and advice facilities which monitor the user's position with the help of satellites. From the computer scientist's point of view, zooming in entails one or a combination of:\n\n\nFor example:\n\n\"See also: Webpage (Graphics), PDF (Layers), MapQuest, Google Maps, Google Earth, OpenStreetMap or Yahoo! Maps.\"\n\nThe maps that reflect the territorial distribution of climatic conditions based on the results of long-term observations are called climatic maps. These maps can be compiled both for individual climatic features (temperature, precipitation, humidity) and for combinations of them at the earth's surface and in the upper layers of the atmosphere. Climatic maps afford a very convenient overview of the climatic features in a large region and permit values of climatic features to be compared in different parts of the region. Through interpolation the maps can be used to determine the values of climatic features in any particular spot.\n\nClimatic maps generally apply to individual months and to the year as a whole, sometimes to the four seasons, to the growing period, and so forth. On maps compiled from the observations of ground meteorological stations, atmospheric pressure is converted to sea level. Air temperature maps are compiled both from the actual values observed on the surface of the earth and from values converted to sea level. The pressure field in free atmosphere is represented either by maps of the distribution of pressure at different standard altitudes—for example, at every kilometer above sea level—or by maps of baric topography on which altitudes (more precisely geopotentials) of the main isobaric surfaces (for example, 900, 800, and 700 millibars) counted off from sea level are plotted. The temperature, humidity, and wind on aeroclimatic maps may apply either to standard altitudes or to the main isobaric surfaces.\n\nIsolines are drawn on maps of such climatic features as the long-term mean values (of atmospheric pressure, temperature, humidity, total precipitation, and so forth) to connect points with equal values of the feature in question—for example, isobars for pressure, isotherms for temperature, and isohyets for precipitation. Isoamplitudes are drawn on maps of amplitudes (for example, annual amplitudes of air temperature—that is, the differences between the mean temperatures of the warmest and coldest month). Isanomals are drawn on maps of anomalies (for example, deviations of the mean temperature of each place from the mean temperature of the entire latitudinal zone). Isolines of frequency are drawn on maps showing the frequency of a particular phenomenon (for example, annual number of days with a thunderstorm or snow cover). Isochrones are drawn on maps showing the dates of onset of a given phenomenon (for example, the first frost and appearance or disappearance of the snow cover) or the date of a particular value of a meteorological element in the course of a year (for example, passing of the mean daily air temperature through zero). Isolines of the mean numerical value of wind velocity or isotachs are drawn on wind maps (charts); the wind resultants and directions of prevailing winds are indicated by arrows of different length or arrows with different plumes; lines of flow are often drawn. Maps of the zonal and meridional components of wind are frequently compiled for the free atmosphere. Atmospheric pressure and wind are usually combined on climatic maps. Wind roses, curves showing the distribution of other meteorological elements, diagrams of the annual course of elements at individual stations, and the like are also plotted on climatic maps.\n\nMaps of climatic regionalization, that is, division of the earth's surface into climatic zones and regions according to some classification of climates, are a special kind of climatic map.\n\nClimatic maps are often incorporated into climatic atlases of varying geographic range (globe, hemispheres, continents, countries, oceans) or included in comprehensive atlases. Besides general climatic maps, applied climatic maps and atlases have great practical value. Aeroclimatic maps, aeroclimatic atlases, and agroclimatic maps are the most numerous.\n\nThe various features shown on a map are represented by conventional signs or symbols. For example, colors can be used to indicate a classification of roads. Those signs are usually explained in the margin of the map, or on a separately published characteristic sheet.\n\nSome cartographers prefer to make the map cover practically the entire screen or sheet of paper, leaving no room \"outside\" the map for information about the map as a whole.\nThese cartographers typically place such information in an otherwise \"blank\" region \"inside\" the mapcartouche, map legend, title, compass rose, bar scale, etc.\nIn particular, some maps contain smaller \"sub-maps\" in otherwise blank regions—often one at a much smaller scale showing the whole globe and where the whole map fits on that globe, and a few showing \"regions of interest\" at a larger scale in order to show details that wouldn't otherwise fit.\nOccasionally sub-maps use the same scale as the large map—a few maps of the contiguous United States include a sub-map to the same scale for each of the two non-contiguous states.\n\nTo communicate spatial information effectively, features such as rivers, lakes, and cities need to be labeled. Over centuries cartographers have developed the art of placing names on even the densest of maps. Text placement or name placement can get mathematically very complex as the number of labels and map density increases. Therefore, text placement is time-consuming and labor-intensive, so cartographers and GIS users have developed automatic label placement to ease this process.\n\nMaps exist of the Solar System, and other cosmological features such as star maps. In addition maps of other bodies such as the Moon and other planets are technically not \"geo\"graphical maps.\n\nDiagrams such as schematic diagrams and Gantt charts and treemaps display logical relationships between items, rather than geographical relationships. Topological in nature, only the connectivity is significant. The London Underground map and similar subway maps around the world are a common example of these maps.\n\nGeneral-purpose maps provide many types of information on one map. Most atlas maps, wall maps, and road maps fall into this category. The following are some features that might be shown on general-purpose maps: bodies of water, roads, railway lines, parks, elevations, towns and cities, political boundaries, latitude and longitude, national and provincial parks. These maps give a broad understanding of location and features of an area. The reader may gain an understanding of the type of landscape, the location of urban places, and the location of major transportation routes all at once.\n\n\nSome countries required that all published maps represent their national claims regarding border disputes. For example:\n\nIn 2010, the People's Republic of China began requiring that all online maps served from within China be hosted there, making them subject to Chinese laws.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51881613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51881613", "title": "Mario Roques", "text": "Mario Roques\n\nMario Roques (1 July 1875 – 8 March 1961) was a French scholar, professor of history of medieval literature and renowned Romance philologist. He translated and edited \"Le Roman de Renart\".\n\nMario Roques was born in Peru where his father was a consular agent He started studying at the École Normale Supérieure (ENS) from 1894 while following courses at the École nationale des chartes as an auditor. In 1895, he joined the École pratique des hautes études (EPHE) where he trained in Romance philology under the guidance of Gaston Paris and Antoine Thomas. His teaching career began early and led him to teach at the ENS, the EPHE (where he would succeed Gaston Paris), the Institut national des langues et civilisations orientales (where he taught the Romanian and Albanian languages and of which he was appointed director, that is to say director, 1936), the Sorbonne and the Collège de France.\n\nIn 1910, he created the series \"Les classiques français du Moyen âge\" at . The following year, he succeeded Paul Meyer at the head of the journal \"Romania\", which he would manage until his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47236623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47236623", "title": "Miriam Chaszczewacki", "text": "Miriam Chaszczewacki\n\nMiriam Chaszczewacki or Miriam Chaszczewacka (1924–1942) was a 15-year-old Jewish girl and Holocaust victim who in 1939 began writing a personal diary about her life in the Radomsko ghetto which ended a few days before her assassination in 1942.\n\nMiriam's teacher Stefania Heilbrunn returned to Radomsko, Poland after World War II had ended. While she was visiting the city cemetery, she met a Polish woman who gave her a sealed envelope saying \"My son has asked me to give this to you. I don't know anything about it\" and left. In the envelope Heilbrunn found a notebook with handwriting she recognized as belonging to her former student, Miriam Chaszczewacki. Heilbrunn brought the notebook to Israel and published its content.\n\nOriginally the diary was written in Polish. Parts of the diary were published in Hebrew, Yiddish, Polish, English and German. The original notebook was donated to Yad Vashem.\n\nMiriam's mother Sarah Lavit Zelber, born to a Hassidic family was a kindergarten teacher and a public figure. Miriam's father David was born in Ukraine. He opened a Jewish school in Radomsko where he taught Hebrew. This school was later active in the ghetto. Miriam's brother Nahum was born in 1929. Miriam was a 15-year-old gymnasium student and a member of a Zionist youth movement when the war began. She is described as a gentle, sensitive, intelligent and talented girl who studied Hebrew in her father's school. In another testimony, she is described as a shy, romantic and dreamy teenager.\n\nMiriam's father and brother were murdered in the ghetto by the Germans. The father, David, was killed for refusing to board a deportation train. The brother Nahum was buried in a mass grave in the Jewish cemetery.\n\nThe diary begins with the introductory chapter that describes the events between the summer of 1939 and the occupation of Radomsko by the Germans in September 1939. The second part of the diary consists of 27 dated entries starting at 21 April 1941 describing the events of the war and ghetto life along with the typical account of a teenage girl's emotions.\n\nThe last entry in the diary in Miriam's handwriting was on 7 October 1942, when Miriam was 18. Between 9 and 12 October 1942 about 14,000 residents of the ghetto were sent to Treblinka.\n\nIn the last page of the notebook appears an entry in a different, adult, handwriting, possibly by the Polish policeman who was the son of the woman who passed the notebook to Stefania Heilbrunn:\n\nOn the evening of the 24 October 1942 she surrendered, together with her mother, to a Polish policeman on duty on Limanewskeigo Str. They asked to be taken to the Judenrat, as they have been hiding for a week in a lavatory and had enough of it all. During the last 3 days they ate raw groats. They were taken to the Police station and the next day left with a transport by lorry to Częstochowa.\n\nIn one of the diary's last entries, about a month before her death, Miriam wrote:\n\nIt may seem silly, but only a step away from death I still worry about my diary. I would not want for it to meet a miserable end in an oven or on a rubbish heap. I wish somebody could find it – even if it be only a German – and would read it. I wish that these scribblings, though they record barely a fraction of the cruelties, would one day serve as a true and faithful document of our times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34213099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34213099", "title": "Muisca raft", "text": "Muisca raft\n\nThe Muisca raft (\"Balsa Muisca\" in Spanish), sometimes referred to as the El Dorado Raft, is an artistic figure of pre-Columbian gold votive, drafted by the Muisca who established one of the four grand civilisations in the Americas on the Altiplano Cundiboyacense in the Eastern Ranges of the Colombian Andes. The piece is exhibited at the Gold Museum in Bogota. It is estimated that the figure was drawn between 600 and 1600 AD by lost-wax casting in gold with a small amount of copper.\n\nThe figure refers to the ceremony of the legend of \"El Dorado\". It represents the ceremony of investiture of the Muisca chief, which used to take place at Lake Guatavita. During this ritual, the heir to the chieftainship (\"zipa\") covered his body with gold dust and jumped into the lake along with gold offerings and emeralds to the gods. The piece has a base in the shape of a log boat with dimensions of 19.5 cm x 10.1 cm and various figures on the raft, the largest figure that stands in the middle apparently represents the chief, which is adorned with headdresses, nose rings and earrings, measuring 10.2 cm and is surrounded by his soldiers who carry banners.\n\nThe raft was found by three farmers in early 1969 in a cave in the village of Lázaro Fonte in the municipality of Pasca (Cundinamarca), Colombia in a ceramic pot, adorned with a human figure whose face has sharp teeth. The priest of the municipality protected the piece until it was acquired by Bogota's Gold Museum and where it has become one of its major exhibition pieces. It has never left Colombia.\n\nThe Muisca raft weighs 287.5 grams. It is an alloy of gold with copper and silver. An analysis using X-ray fluorescence has revealed breakdown of the composition as detailed in the table below:\n\nThus, the raft contains approximately of gold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "181690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181690", "title": "Names of China", "text": "Names of China\n\nThe names of China include the many contemporary and historical appellations given in various languages for the East Asian country known as \"Zhongguo\" (/) in its official language. China, the name in English for the country, was derived from Portuguese in the 16th century, and became popular in the mid 19th century. It is believed to be a borrowing from Middle Persian, and some have traced it further back to Sanskrit. It is also generally thought that the ultimate source of the name China is the Chinese word \"Qin\" (), the name of the dynasty that unified China but also existed as a state for many centuries prior. There are however other alternative suggestions for the origin of the word.\n\nChinese names for China, aside from \"Zhongguo\", include \"Zhonghua\" (/), \"Huaxia\" (/), \"Shenzhou\" () and \"Jiuzhou\" (). \"Han\" (/) and \"Tang\" () are common names given for the Chinese ethnicity. The People's Republic of China (Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó) and Republic of China (Zhōnghuá Mínguó) are the official names for the two contemporary sovereign states currently claiming sovereignty over the traditional area of China. \"Mainland China\" is used to refer to areas under the jurisdiction by the PRC usually excluding Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan.\n\nThere are also names for China that are derived from the languages of other ethnic groups other than the Han; examples include \"Cathay\" from the Khitan language and \"Tabgach\" from Tuoba.\n\n\"Zhōngguó\" is the most common sinitic name for China in modern times. The first appearance of on an artifact was in the Western Zhou on a ritual vessel known as He zun. It is formed by combining the characters \"zhōng\" () meaning \"central\" or \"middle\", and \"guó\" (/), representing \"state\" or \"states\"; in contemporary usage, \"nation\". Prior to the Qin unification of China \"Zhongguo\" referred to the \"Central States\"; the connotation was the primacy of a culturally distinct core area, centered on the Yellow River valley, as distinguished from the tribal periphery. \n\nIn later periods, however, \"Zhongguo\" was not used in this sense. Dynastic names were used for the state in Imperial China and concepts of the state aside from the ruling dynasty were little understood. Rather, the country was called by the name of the dynasty, such as \"Han dynasty\" (\"Hanchao\" ), \"Tang dynasty\" (\"Tangchao\" ), \"The Great Ming\" (\"Daming\" ), \"The Great Qing\" (\"Daqing\" ), as the case might be. but the most traditional name that China has used to refer to itself is “Zhonggou\". Missionary Matteo Ricci and John Livingston Nevius，They preached in China in different dynasties. In their Record, Chinese people often call themselves \"Chung kwoh\" the word meaning \"middle kingdom\". That is a very common word in both writing and speaking, and may be used with the name of the dynasty. Many case studies have proved that there were times China call itself “ Zhongguo ”in Chinese history and historical sites. Until the 19th century when the international system came to require a common legal language, there was no need for a fixed or unique name.\n\nThere were different usages of the term \"Zhongguo\" in every period. It could refer to the capital of the emperor to distinguish it from the capitals of his vassals, as in Western Zhou. It could refer to the states of the Central Plain to distinguish them from states in outer regions. During the Han dynasty, three usages of \"Zhongguo\" were common. The \"Shi Jing\" explicitly defines \"Zhongguo\" as the capital; the \"Records of the Grand Historian\" uses the concept \"zhong\" to indicate the center of civilization: \"Eight famous mountains are there in Tianxia. Three are in Man and Yi. Five are in \"Zhōnghuá\".\" The \"Records of the Three Kingdoms\" uses the concept of the central states in \"Zhōnghuá\", or the states in \"Zhōnghuá\" which is the center, depending on the interpretation. It records the following exhortation: \"If we can lead the host of Wu and Yue to oppose \"Zhongguo,\" then let us break off relations with them soon.\" In this sense, the term \"Zhongguo\" is synonymous with \"Zhōnghuá\" (/) and \"Huáxià\" (/), names for \"China\" that comes from the Xia dynasty.\n\nFrom the Qin to Ming dynasty literati discussed \"Zhongguo\" as both a historical place or territory and as a culture. Writers of the Ming period in particular used the term as a political tool to express opposition to expansionist policies that incorporated foreigners into the empire. In contrast foreign conquerors typically avoided discussions of \"Zhongguo\" and instead defined membership in their empires to include both Han and non-Han peoples.\n\n\"Zhongguo\" appeared in a formal international legal document for the first time during the Qing dynasty in the Treaty of Nerchinsk, 1689. The term was then used in communications with other states and in treaties. The Manchu rulers incorporated Inner Asian polities into their empire, and Wei Yuan, a statecraft scholar, distinguished the new territories from \"Zhongguo\", which he defined as the 17 provinces of \"China proper\" plus the Manchu homelands in the Northeast. By the late 19th century the term had emerged as a common name for the whole country. The empire was sometimes referred to as Great Qing but increasingly as \"Zhongguo\" (see the discussion below).\nDulimbai Gurun is the Manchu name for China. The historian Zhao Gang writes that \"not long after the collapse of the Ming, China [Zhongguo] became the equivalent of Great Qing (Da Qing)—another official title of the Qing state\", and \"Qing and China became interchangeable official titles, and the latter often appeared as a substitute for the former in official documents.\" Qing referred to their realm as \"Dulimbai Gurun\" in Manchu. The Qing equated the lands of the Qing realm (including present day Manchuria, Xinjiang, Mongolia, Tibet and other areas as \"China\" in both the Chinese and Manchu languages, defining China as a multi-ethnic state, rejecting the idea that China only meant Han areas; both Han and non-Han peoples were part of \"China\". Officials used \"China\" (though not exclusively) in official documents, international treaties, and foreign affairs, and the \"Chinese language\" (Dulimbai gurun i bithe) referred to Chinese, Manchu, and Mongol languages, and the term \"Chinese people\" ( Zhongguo ren; Manchu: Dulimbai gurun i niyalma) referred to all Han, Manchus, and Mongol subjects of the Qing. Ming loyalist Han literati held to defining the old Ming borders as China and using \"foreigner\" to describe minorities under Qing rule such as the Mongols, as part of their anti-Qing ideology.\nWhen the Qing conquered Dzungaria in 1759, they proclaimed that the new land was absorbed into Dulimbai Gurun in a Manchu language memorial. The Qing expounded on their ideology that they were bringing together the \"outer\" non-Han Chinese like the Inner Mongols, Eastern Mongols, Oirat Mongols, and Tibetans together with the \"inner\" Han Chinese, into \"one family\" united in the Qing state, showing that the diverse subjects of the Qing were all part of one family, the Qing used the phrase \"Zhongwai yijia\" () or \"neiwai yijia\" (, \"interior and exterior as one family\"), to convey this idea of \"unification\" of the different peoples. A Manchu language version of a treaty with the Russian Empire concerning criminal jurisdiction over bandits called people from the Qing as \"people of the Central Kingdom (Dulimbai Gurun)\". In the Manchu official Tulisen's Manchu language account of his meeting with the Torghut Mongol leader Ayuki Khan, it was mentioned that while the Torghuts were unlike the Russians, the \"people of the Central Kingdom\" (dulimba-i gurun , Zhongguo) were like the Torghut Mongols, and the \"people of the Central Kingdom\" referred to the Manchus.\n\nMark Elliott noted that it was under the Qing that \"China\" transformed into a definition of referring to lands where the \"state claimed sovereignty\" rather than only the Central Plains area and its people by the end of the 18th century.\n\nElena Barabantseva also noted that the Manchu referred to all subjects of the Qing empire regardless of ethnicity as \"Chinese\" (), and used the term () as a synonym for the entire Qing empire while using \"Han ren\" () to refer only to the core area of the empire, with the entire empire viewed as multiethnic.\n\nJoseph W. Esherick noted that while the Qing Emperors governed frontier non-Han areas in a different, separate system under the Lifanyuan and kept them separate from Han areas and administration, it was the Manchu Qing Emperors who expanded the definition of Zhongguo () and made it \"flexible\" by using that term to refer to the entire Empire and using that term to other countries in diplomatic correspondence, while some Han Chinese subjects criticized their usage of the term and the Han literati Wei Yuan used Zhongguo only to refer to the seventeen provinces of China and three provinces of the east (Manchuria), excluding other frontier areas. Due to Qing using treaties clarifying the international borders of the Qing state, it was able to inculcate in the Chinese people a sense that China included areas such as Mongolia and Tibet due to education reforms in geography which made it clear where the borders of the Qing state were even if they didn't understand how the Chinese identity included Tibetans and Mongolians or understand what the connotations of being Chinese were. The Treaty of Nanking (1842) English version refers to \"His Majesty the Emperor of China\" while the Chinese refers both to \"The Great Qing Emperor\" (\"Da Qing Huangdi\") and to Zhongguo as well. The Treaty of Tientsin (1858) has similar language.\n\nIn the late 19th century the reformer Liang Qichao argued in a famous passage that \"our greatest shame is that our country has no name. The names that people ordinarily think of, such as Xia, Han, or Tang, are all the titles of bygone dynasties.\" He argued that the other countries of the world \"all boast of their own state names, such as England and France, the only exception being the Central States.\" The Japanese term \"Shina\" was proposed as a basically neutral Western-influenced equivalent for \"China\". Liang and Chinese revolutionaries, such as Sun Yat-sen, who both lived extensive periods in Japan, used \"Shina\" extensively, and it was used in literature as well as by ordinary Chinese. But with the overthrow of the Qing in 1911, most Chinese dropped \"Shina\" as foreign and demanded that even Japanese replace it with \"Zhonghua minguo\" or simply \"Zhongguo\". Liang went on to argue that the concept of \"tianxia\" had to be abandoned in favor of \"guojia\", that is, \"nation,\" for which he accepted the term \"Zhongguo\". After the founding of the Chinese Republic in 1912, \"Zhongguo\" was also adopted as the abbreviation of \"Zhonghua minguo\".\n\nQing official Zhang Deyi objected to the western European name \"China\" and said that China referred to itself as Zhonghua in response to a European who asked why Chinese used the term guizi to refer to all Europeans.\n\nIn the 20th century after the May Fourth Movement, educated students began to spread the concept of \"Zhōnghuá\" (/), which represented the people, including 56 minority ethnic groups and the Han Chinese, with a single culture identifying themselves as \"Chinese\". The Republic of China and the People's Republic of China both used the title \"Zhōnghuá\" in their official names. Thus, \"Zhōngguó\" became the common name for both governments. Overseas Chinese are referred to as \"huáqiáo\" (/), literally \"Chinese overseas\", or \"huáyì\" (/), literally \"Chinese descendant\" (i.e., Chinese children born overseas).\n\nThe English translation of \"Zhongguo\" as the \"Middle Kingdom\" entered European languages through the Portuguese in the 16th century and became popular in the mid 19th century. By the mid 20th century the term was thoroughly entrenched in the English language to reflect the Western view of China as the inwards looking Middle Kingdom, or more accurately the \"Central Kingdom\". Endymion Wilkinson points out that the Chinese were not unique in thinking of their country as central, although China was the only culture to use the concept for their name. The term Zhongguo was also not commonly used as a name for China until quite recently, nor did it mean the \"Middle Kingdom\" to the Chinese, or even have the same meaning throughout the course of history.\n\n\n\nThe name \"Huaxia\" (/; ), generally used as a sobriquet in Chinese text, is the combination of two words:\n\nThese two terms originally referred to the elegance of the traditional attire of the Han Chinese ( \"Hànfú\", or simply \"yīguān\", literally \"clothes and headgear\") and the Confucian concept of rituals (/ \"lǐ\"). In the original sense, Huaxia refers to a confederation of tribes—living along the Yellow River—who were the ancestors of what later became the Han ethnic group in China. During the Warring States (475–221 BCE), the self-awareness of the Huaxia identity developed and took hold in ancient China.\n\n\"Tianxia\" (; ) literally means \"under heaven\"; and \"Tianchao\" () means \"Heavenly Dynasty\". These terms were usually used in the context of civil wars or periods of division, in which whoever ends up reunifying China is said to have ruled \"Tianxia\", or everything under heaven. This fits with the traditional Chinese theory of rulership in which the emperor was nominally the political leader of the entire world and not merely the leader of a nation-state within the world. Historically the term was connected to the later Zhou Dynasty (c. 1046–256 BCE), especially the Spring and Autumn period (eighth to fourth century BCE) and the Warring States period (from there to 221 BCE, when China was reunified by the Qin state).\n\n\n\"Jiangshan\" (; ) literally means \"Rivers and mountains\". This term is quite similar in usage to Tianxia, and simply refers to the entire world, and here the most prominent features of which being rivers and mountains. Use of this term is also common as part of the phrase \"designing rivers and mountains\" meaning maintaining and improving government and policy in the world.\n\nThe name \"Jiuzhou\" (; ) means \"nine provinces\". Widely used in pre-modern Chinese text, the word originated during the middle of Warring States period of China (c. 400–221 BCE). During that time, the Yellow River river region was divided into nine geographical regions; thus this name was coined. Some people also attribute this word to the mythical hero and king, Yu the Great, who, in the legend, divided China into nine provinces during his reign. (Consult Zhou for more information.)\n\nThis name means \"Divine Land\" (; ) and comes from the same period as Jiuzhou. It was thought that the world was divided into nine major states, one of which is Shenzhou, which is in turn divided into nine smaller states, one of which is Jiuzhou mentioned above.\n\nThis name, \"Four Seas\" (; ), is sometimes used to refer to the world, or simply China, which is perceived as the civilized world. It came from the ancient notion that the world is flat and surrounded by sea.\n\nThe name \"Han\" (/; ) derives from the Han dynasty (206 BC–220 AD), who presided over China's first \"golden age\". The Han dynasty collapsed in 220 and was followed by a long period of disorder, including Three Kingdoms, Sixteen Kingdoms, and Southern and Northern Dynasties periods. During these periods, various non-Chinese ethnic groups invaded from the north and conquered areas of North China, which they held for several centuries. It was during this period that people began to use the term \"Han\" to refer to the natives of North China, who (unlike the invaders) were the descendants of the subjects of the Han dynasty.\n\nDuring the Yuan dynasty Mongolian rulers divided people into four classes: Mongols, Semu or \"Colour-eyeds\", Hans, and \"Southerns\". Northern Chinese were called Han, which was considered to be the highest class of Chinese. This class \"Han\" includes all ethnic groups in northern China including Khitan and Jurchen who have in most part sinicized during the last two hundreds years. The name \"Han\" became popularly accepted.\n\nDuring the Qing dynasty, the Manchu rulers also used the name Han to distinguish the local Chinese from the Manchus. After the fall of the Qing government, the Han became the name of a nationality within China. Today the term \"Han Persons\", often rendered in English as Han Chinese, is used by the People's Republic of China to refer to the most populous of the 56 officially recognized ethnic groups of China. The \"Han Chinese\" are simply referred to as \"Chinese\" by some.\n\nThe name \"Tang\" (; ) comes from the Tang Dynasty (618–907) that presided over China's second golden age. It was during the Tang Dynasty that South China was finally and fully Sinicized; Tang would become synonymous with China in Southern China and it is usually Southern Chinese who refer to themselves as \"Tang ren\" (, ). For example, the sinicization and rapid development of Guangdong during the Tang period would lead the Cantonese to refer to themselves as \"Tong-yan\" () in Cantonese, while China is called \"Tong-saan\" (; ). Chinatowns worldwide, often dominated by Southern Chinese, also became referred to \"Tong-yan-gaai\" (; ). The Cantonese term is recorded as \"Tongsan\" in Old Malay as one of the local terms for China, along with the Sanskrit-derived \"Cina\". It is still used in Malaysia today, usually in a derogatory sense.\n\nAmong Taiwanese, \"Tn̂g-soaⁿ\" has been used, for example, in the saying, \"has Tangshan father, no Tangshan mother\" (有唐山公，無唐山媽; ). This refers how the Han people crossing the Taiwan Strait in the 17th and 18th centuries were mostly men, and that many of their offspring would be through intermarriage with Taiwanese aborigine women.\n\nIn Ryukyuan, Karate was originally called \"tii\" (手, hand) or \"karatii\" (唐手, Tang hand) because 唐ぬ國 \"too-nu-kuku\" or \"kara-nu-kuku\" (唐ぬ國) was a common Ryukyuan name for China; it was changed to \"karate\" (空手, open hand) to appeal to Japanese people after the First Sino-Japanese War.\n\n\"Dàlù\" (/; ), literally \"big continent\" or \"mainland\" in this context, is used as a short form of \"Zhōnggúo Dàlù\" (/, Mainland China), excluding (depending on the context) Hong Kong and Macau, and/or Taiwan. This term is used in official context in both the mainland and Taiwan, when referring to the mainland as opposed to Taiwan. In certain contexts, it is equivalent to the term \"Neidi\" (; , literally \"the inner land\"). While \"Neidi\" generally refers to the interior as opposed to a particular coastal or border location, or the coastal or border regions generally, it is used in Hong Kong specifically to mean mainland China excluding Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. Increasingly, it is also being used in an official context within mainland China, for example in reference to the separate judicial and customs jurisdictions of mainland China on the one hand and Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan on the other.\n\nThe term \"Neidi\" is also often used in Xinjiang and Tibet to distinguish the eastern provinces of China from the minority-populated, autonomous regions of the west.\n\nThe name New China has been frequently applied to China by the Communist Party of China as a positive political and social term contrasting pre-1949 China (the establishment of the PRC) and the new socialist state, which eventually became Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó (see below), known in English as the \"People's Republic of China\". This term is also sometimes used by writers outside mainland China. The PRC was known to many in the West during the Cold War as \"Communist China\" or \"Red China\" to distinguish it from the Republic of China which is commonly called \"Taiwan\", \"Nationalist China\" or \"Free China\". In some contexts, particularly in economics, trade, and sports, \"China\" is often used to refer to mainland China to the exclusion of Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.\n\nThe official name of the People's Republic of China in various official languages and scripts:\n\nIn 1912, China adopted its official name, Zhōnghuá Mínguó (see below), known in English as the \"Republic of China\", which also has sometimes been referred to as \"Republican China\" or \"Republican Era\" (), in contrast to the empire it replaced, or as \"Nationalist China\", after the ruling Chinese Nationalist Party (Kuomintang). (\"Zhonghua\") is a term that pertains to \"China\" while (\"mínguó\"), literally \"people's country\", stands for \"republic\". With the separation from mainland China in 1949 as a result of the Chinese Civil War, the territory of the Republic of China has largely been confined to the island of Taiwan and some other small islands. Thus, the country is often simply referred to as simply \"Taiwan\", although this may not be perceived as politically neutral. (See Taiwan Independence.) Amid the hostile rhetoric of the Cold War, the government and its supporters sometimes referred to itself as \"Free China\" or \"Liberal China\", in contrast to People's Republic of China (which was historically called the \"Bandit-occupied Area\" () by the ROC). In addition, the ROC, due to pressure from the PRC, was forced to use the name \"Chinese Taipei\" () whenever it participates in international forums or most sporting events such as the Olympic Games.\n\nThe official name of the Republic of China in various official languages and scripts:\n\nNames used in the rest of Asia, especially East and Southeast Asia, are usually derived directly from words in a language of China. Those languages belonging to a former dependency (tributary) or Chinese-influenced country have an especially similar pronunciation to that of Chinese. Those used in Indo-European languages, however, have indirect names that came via other routes and bear little resemblance to what is used in China.\n\nEnglish, most Indo-European languages, and many others use various forms of the name \"China\" and the prefix \"Sino-\" or \"Sin-\" from the Latin \"Sina\". Europeans had knowledge of a country known as \"Thina\" or \"Sina\" from the early period; the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" from perhaps the first century AD recorded a country known as \"Thin\" (\"θίν\"). The English name for \"China\" itself is derived from Middle Persian (\"Chīnī\" ). This modern word \"China\" was first used by Europeans starting with Portuguese explorers of the 16th century – it was first recorded in 1516 in the journal of the Portuguese explorer Duarte Barbosa. The journal was translated and published in England in 1555.\n\nThe traditional etymology, proposed in the 17th century by Martin Martini and supported by later scholars such as Paul Pelliot and Berthold Laufer, is that the word \"China\" and its related terms are ultimately derived from the polity known as Qin that unified China to form the Qin Dynasty (, Old Chinese: \"*dzin\") in the 3rd century BC, but existed as a state on the furthest west of China since the 9th century BC. This is still the most commonly held theory, although many other suggestions have also been mooted.\n\nThe existence of the word \"Cīna\" in ancient Hindu texts was noted by the Sanskrit scholar Hermann Jacobi who pointed out its use in the Book 2 of \"Arthashastra\" with reference to silk and woven cloth produced by the country of \"Cīna\", although textual analysis suggests that Book 2 may not have been written long before 150 AD. The word is also found in other Sanskrit texts such as the \"Mahābhārata\" and the \"Laws of Manu\". The Indologist Patrick Olivelle argued that the word \"Cīnā\" may not have been known in India before the first century BC, nevertheless he agreed that it probably referred to Qin but thought that the word itself was derived from a Central Asian language. Some Chinese and Indian scholars argued for the state of Jing (, another name for Chu) as the likely origin of the name. Another suggestion, made by Geoff Wade, is that the \" Cīnāh\" in Sanskrit texts refers to an ancient kingdom centered in present-day Guizhou, called Yelang, in the south Tibeto-Burman highlands. The inhabitants referred to themselves as \"Zina\" according to Wade.\n\nThe term \"China\" can also be used to refer to:\n\nIn economic contexts, \"Greater China\" (/, \"dà Zhōnghuá dìqū\") is intended to be a neutral and non-political way to refer to Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.\n\nSinologists usually use \"Chinese\" in a more restricted sense, akin to the classical usage of \"Zhongguo\", to the Han ethnic group, which makes up the bulk of the population in China and of the overseas Chinese.\n\n\n\"Sēres\" (Σῆρες) was the Ancient Greek and Roman name for the northwestern part of China and its inhabitants. It meant \"of silk,\" or \"land where silk comes from.\" The name is thought to derive from the Chinese word for silk, \"\"sī\" (/). It is itself at the origin of the Latin for silk, \"sērica\"\". See the main article Serica for more details.\n\n\nThis may be a back formation from \"sērikos\" (\"σηρικός\"), \"made of silk\", from \"sēr\" (\"σήρ\"), \"silkworm\", in which case \"Sēres\" is \"the land where silk comes from.\"\n\n\"Sīnae\" was an ancient Greek and Roman name for some people who dwelt south of the Seres (Serica) in the eastern extremity of the inhabitable world. References to the Sinae include mention of a city that the Romans called \"Sēra Mētropolis\", which may be modern Chang'an. The Latin prefixes \"Sino-\" and \"Sin-\", which are traditionally used to refer to China and the Chinese, came from \"Sīnae\". It is generally thought that \"Chīna\", \"Sīna\" and \"Thīna\" are variants that ultimately derived from Qin, which was the westernmost state in China that eventually formed the Qin Dynasty. There are however other opinions on its etymology (See section on China above). Henry Yule thought that this term may have come to Europe through the Arabs, who made the China of the farther east into \"Sin\", and perhaps sometimes into \"Thin\". Hence the \"Thin\" of the author of the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea, who appears to be the first extant writer to employ the name in this form; hence also the Sinæ and Thinae of Ptolemy.\n\nSome denied that Ptolemy's Sinae really represented the Chinese as Ptolemy called the country \"Sērice\" and the capital \"Sēra\", but regarded them as distinct from \"Sīnae\". Marcian of Heraclea (a condenser of Ptolemy) tells us that the \"nations of the Sinae lie at the extremity of the habitable world, and adjoin the eastern Terra incognita\". The 6th century Cosmas Indicopleustes refers to a \"country of silk\" called \"Tzinista\", which is understood as referring to China, beyond which \"there is neither navigation nor any land to inhabit\". It seems probable that the same region is meant by both. According to Henry Yule, Ptolemy's misrendering of the Indian Sea as a closed basin meant that Ptolemy must also have misplaced the Chinese coast, leading to the misconception of Serica and Sina as separate countries.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, there is a mention of a faraway country Sinim in the Book of Isaiah 49:12 which some had assumed to be a reference to China. In Genesis 10:17, a tribes called the Sinites were said to be the descendants of Canaan, the son of Ham, but they are usually considered to be a different people, probably from the northern part of Lebanon.\n\n\nThis group of names derives from Khitan, an ethnic group that originated in Manchuria and conquered parts of Northern China early tenth century forming the Liao dynasty, and later in the twelfth century dominated Central Asia as the Kara Khitan Khanate. Due to long period of domination of Northern China and then Central Asia by these nomadic conquerors, the name Khitan become associated with China to the people in and around the northwestern region. Muslim historians referred to the Kara Khitan state as \"Khitay\" or \"Khitai\"; they may have adopted this form of \"Khitan\" via the Uyghurs of Kocho in whose language the final -n or -ń became -y. The name was then introduced to medieval and early modern Europe through Islamic and Russian sources. In English and in several other European languages, the name \"Cathay\" was used in the translations of the adventures of Marco Polo, which used this word for northern China. Words related to Khitay are still used in many Turkic and Slavic languages to refer to China. However, its use by Turkic speakers within China, such as the Uyghurs, is considered pejorative by the Chinese authority who tried to ban it.\n\n\nThere is no evidence that either in the 13th or 14th century, Cathayans, \"i.e.\" Chinese, travelled officially to Europe, but it is possible that some did, in unofficial capacities, at least in the 13th century. During the campaigns of Hulagu (the grandson of Genghis Khan) in Persia (1256–65), and the reigns of his successors, Chinese engineers were employed on the banks of the Tigris, and Chinese astrologers and physicians could be consulted. Many diplomatic communications passed between the Hulaguid Ilkhans and Christian princes. The former, as the great khan's liegemen, still received from him their seals of state; and two of their letters which survive in the archives of France exhibit the vermilion impressions of those seals in Chinese characters—perhaps affording the earliest specimen of those characters to reach western Europe.\n\n\"Tabgach\" came from the metatheses of \"Tuoba\" (\"*t'akbat\"), a dominant tribe of the Xianbei, and the surname of the Northern Wei Dynasty in the 5th century before sinicisation. It referred to Northern China, which was dominated by half-Xianbei, half-Chinese people.\n\n\n\"Nikan\" (Manchu: , means\"Han ethnicity\") was a Manchu ethnonym of unknown origin that referred specifically to the ethnic group known in English as the Han Chinese; the stem of this word was also conjugated as a verb, \"nikara(-mbi)\", and used to mean \"to speak the Chinese language.\" Since \"Nikan\" was essentially an ethnonym and referred to a group of people (i.e., a nation) rather than to a political body (i.e., a state), the correct translation of \"China\" into the Manchu language is \"Nikan gurun\", literally the \"Nikan state\" or \"country of the Nikans\" (i.e., country of the Hans). \n\nThis exonym for the Han Chinese is also used in the Daur language, in which it appears as \"Niaken\" ( or ). As in the case of the Manchu language, the Daur word \"Niaken\" is essentially an ethnonym, and the proper way to refer to the country of the Han Chinese (i.e., \"China\" in a cultural sense) is \"Niaken gurun\", while \"niakendaaci-\" is a verb meaning \"to talk in Chinese.\"\n\nJapanese: \"Kara\" (; variously written in kanji as or ). An identical name was used by the ancient and medieval Japanese to refer to the country that is now known as Korea, and many Japanese historians and linguists believe that the word \"Kara\" referring to China and/or Korea may have derived from a metonymic extension of the appellation of the ancient city-states of Gaya.\n\nThe Japanese word \"karate\" (, lit. \"empty hand\") is derived from the Okinawan word \"karatii\" (, lit. \"Tang/Chinese hand\") and refers to Okinawan martial arts; the character for \"kara\" was changed to remove the connotation of the style originating in China.\n\nJapanese: \"Morokoshi\" (; variously written in kanji as or ). This obsolete Japanese name for China is believed to have derived from a \"kun\" reading of the Chinese compound \"Zhūyuè\" or \nBǎiyuè as \"all the Yue\" or \"the hundred (i.e., myriad, various, or numerous) Yue,\" which was an ancient Chinese name for the societies of the regions that are now southern China.\n\nThe Japanese common noun \"tōmorokoshi\" (), which refers to maize, appears to contain an element cognate with the proper noun formerly used in reference to China. Although \"tōmorokoshi\" is traditionally written with Chinese characters that literally mean \"jade Shu millet,\" the etymology of the Japanese word appears to go back to \"Tang morokoshi,\" in which \"morokoshi\" was the obsolete Japanese name for China as well as the Japanese word for sorghum, which seems to have been introduced into Japan from China.\n\nFrom Chinese \"Manzi\" (southern barbarians). The division of North China and South China under the Jin dynasty and Song dynasty weakened the idea of a unified China, and it was common for non-Han Chinese to refer to the politically disparate North and South by different names for some time. While Northern China was called Cathay, Southern China was referred to as Mangi. Manzi often appears in documents of the Mongol Yuan dynasty. The Mongols also called Southern Chinese \"Nangkiyas\" or \"Nangkiyad\", and considered them ethnically distinct from North Chinese. The word \"Manzi\" also reached the Western world as \"Mangi\" (as used by Marco Polo), also in Persian as \"Machin\" and Arabic as \"Māṣīn\" . The name is also commonly found on medieval maps. However, the Chinese themselves considered \"Manzi\" to be derogatory and never used it as a self appellation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5166417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5166417", "title": "National Monument to the Forefathers", "text": "National Monument to the Forefathers\n\nThe National Monument to the Forefathers, formerly known as the Pilgrim Monument, commemorates the \"Mayflower\" Pilgrims. Dedicated on August 1, 1889, it honors their ideals as later generally embraced by the United States. It is thought to be the world's largest solid granite monument.\n\nLocated at 72 Allerton Street in Plymouth, Massachusetts, the monument was commissioned by the Pilgrim Society. The original concept dates to around 1820, with actual planning beginning in 1850. The cornerstone was laid August 2, 1859 by the Grand Lodge of Masons in Massachusetts, under the direction of Grand Master John T. Heard. The monument was completed in October 1888, and was dedicated with appropriate ceremonies on August 1, 1889.\n\nHammatt Billings, Boston architect, illustrator and sculptor, originally conceived the monument as a structure comparable to the Colossus of Rhodes. Shortly before his death in 1874, Billings reduced the size of the monument, which was to be made entirely of granite quarried in Hallowell, Maine. The project was then passed to Billings' brother Joseph who, along with other sculptors including Alexander Doyle, Carl Conrads, and James Mahoney, reworked the design, although the basic components remained. The monument, which faces northeast to Plymouth Harbor (and, roughly, towards Plymouth, England), sits in the center of a circular drive, which is accessed from Allerton Street from the east. The plan of the principal pedestal is octagonal, with four small, and four large faces; from the small faces project four buttresses. On the main pedestal stands the heroic figure of \"Faith\" with her right hand pointing toward heaven and her left hand clutching the Bible. Upon the four buttresses also are seated figures emblematical of the principles upon which the Pilgrims founded their Commonwealth; counter-clockwise from the east are Morality, Law, Education, and Liberty. Each was carved from a solid block of granite, posed in the sitting position upon chairs with a high relief on either side of minor characteristics. Under \"Morality\" stand \"Prophet\" and \"Evangelist\"; under \"Law\" stand \"Justice\" and \"Mercy\"; under \"Education\" are \"Youth\" and \"Wisdom\"; and under \"Liberty\" stand \"Tyranny Overthrown\" and \"Peace\". On the face of the buttresses, beneath these figures are high reliefs in marble, representing scenes from Pilgrim history. Under \"Morality\" is \"Embarcation\"; under \"Law\" is \"Treaty\"; under \"Education\" is \"Compact\"; and under \"Freedom\" is \"Landing\". Upon the four faces of the main pedestal are large panels for records. The front panel is inscribed as follows: \"National Monument to the Forefathers. Erected by a grateful people in remembrance of their labors, sacrifices and sufferings for the cause of civil and religious liberty.\" The right and left panels contain the names of those who came over in the \"Mayflower\". The rear panel, which was not engraved until recently, contains a quote from Governor William Bradford's famous history, \"Of Plymouth Plantation\": \n\nThe overall scheme was designed by architect Hammatt Billings. The 36-foot figure of \"Faith\" was based on a 9-foot plaster model by William Rimmer in 1875, that was enlarged and altered by Joseph Edward Billings and a sculptor named Perry (probably John D. Perry). The subsidiary statues were executed by area sculptors including Alexander Doyle, Carl Conrads, and James H. Mahoney.\n\nThe monument was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on August 30, 1974. Originally under the care of the Pilgrim Society, it was given to the Massachusetts government in 2001. It and Plymouth Rock constitute the Pilgrim Memorial State Park. Although intended as national in scope, the Forefathers Monument is not a federal \"National Monument\" as understood today from the Antiquities Act of 1906.\n\nIn 2012, Kirk Cameron released the movie \"\" which features the monument and Cameron's interpretation of its history and the values of those it commemorates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32542141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32542141", "title": "Nohoch Che'en", "text": "Nohoch Che'en\n\nNohoch Che'en, also commonly known as Caves Branch, is an archaeological reserve in Belize, consisting of a network of limestone caves.\n"}
{"id": "15449295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15449295", "title": "Normalization process model", "text": "Normalization process model\n\nThe Normalization process model is a sociological model developed by Carl R May that explains technologies in health care. The model provides framework for process evaluation using three components, actors, objects, and contexts, that are compared across four constructs, Interactional workability, relational integration, skill-set workability, and contextual integration. This model help build the Nomalization Process Theory.\n\nThe normalization process model is a theory that explains how new technologies are embedded in health care work. The model was developed by Carl R May and co-workers, and is an empirically derived grounded theory in medical sociology and science and technology studies (STS), based on qualitative methods. Carl May developed the model after he appeared as a witness at a British House of Commons Health Committee Inquiry on New Medical Technologies in the NHS in 2005. He asked how new technologies became routinely embedded, and taken-for-granted, in everyday work, in view of the increasing corporate organization and regulation of healthcare. The model explains embedding by looking at the work that people do to make it possible.\n\nThe model is a theory in sociology that fits well with macro approaches to innovation like the diffusion of innovations theory developed by Everett Rogers. Although the normalization process model is limited in scope to healthcare settings recent work by May and colleagues has led to the development of normalization process theory, which presents a general sociological theory of implementation and integration of technological and organizational innovations. Normalization process theory has now superseded the more limited normalization process model.\n\nThe normalization process model provides a framework for process evaluation and also for comparative studies of complex interventions, especially of randomized controlled trials. Clinical trials and other evaluations of healthcare interventions often focus on the complex relationships between actors, objects and contexts, making a simple explanatory model, that fits well with other frameworks a necessary tool for clinical and health service researchers. In the normalization process model, a complex intervention is defined as a deliberately initiated attempt to introduce new, or modify existing, patterns of collective action in health care.\n\nA complex intervention has three kinds of components:\n\n\nThe normalization process model explains the embedding of complex interventions by reference to four constructs of collective action that are demonstrated to promote or inhibit the operationalization and embedding of complex interventions (interactional workability, relational integration, skill-set workability, and contextual integration)in a rigorous and sound theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1262054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1262054", "title": "Persecution of Jews", "text": "Persecution of Jews\n\nPersecution of Jewish people has been a major part of Jewish history, prompting shifting waves of refugees throughout the diaspora communities.\n\nWhen Judea fell under the authority of the Seleucid Empire, the process of Hellenization was enforced by law. This effectively meant requiring pagan religious practice. In 167 BCE Jewish sacrifice was forbidden, sabbaths and feasts were banned and circumcision was outlawed. Altars to Greek gods were set up and animals prohibited to Jews were sacrificed on them. The Olympian Zeus was placed on the altar of the Temple. Possession of Jewish scriptures was made a capital offense.\n\nIn the Middle Ages antisemitism in Europe was religious. Although not part of Catholic dogma, many Christians, including members of the clergy, held the Jewish people collectively responsible for killing Jesus. As stated in the \"Boston College Guide to Passion Plays\", \"Over the course of time, Christians began to accept … that the Jewish people as a whole were responsible for killing Jesus. According to this interpretation, both the Jews present at Jesus Christ's death and the Jewish people collectively and for all time, have committed the sin of deicide, or \"god-killing\". For 1900 years of Christian-Jewish history, the charge of deicide has led to hatred, violence against and murder of Jews in Europe and America.\"\n\nDuring the High Middle Ages in Europe there was full-scale persecution in many places, with blood libels, expulsions, forced conversions and massacres. An underlying source of prejudice against Jews in Europe was religious. Jews were frequently massacred and exiled from various European countries. The persecution hit its first peak during the Crusades. In the First Crusade (1096) flourishing communities on the Rhine and the Danube were utterly destroyed, a prime example being the Rhineland massacres. In the Second Crusade (1147) the Jews in France were subject to frequent massacres. The Jews were also subjected to attacks by the Shepherds' Crusades of 1251 and 1320. The Crusades were followed by expulsions, including in 1290, the banishing of all English Jews; in 1396, 100,000 Jews were expelled from France; and, in 1421 thousands were expelled from Austria. Many of the expelled Jews fled to Poland.\n\nAs the Black Death epidemics devastated Europe in the mid-14th century, annihilating more than a half of the population, Jews were taken as scapegoats. Rumors spread that they caused the disease by deliberately poisoning wells. Hundreds of Jewish communities were destroyed by violence in the Black Death persecutions. Although Pope Clement VI tried to protect them by papal bull on July 6, 1348 - with another following later in 1348 - several months afterwards, 900 Jews were burnt alive in Strasbourg, where the plague hadn't yet affected the city.\n\nOne study finds that Jewish persecutions and expulsions increased with negative economic shocks and climactic variations in Europe over the period 1100-1600. The authors of the study argue that this stems from people blaming Jews for misfortunes and weak rulers going after Jewish wealth in times of fiscal crisis. The authors propose several explanations for why Jewish persecutions significantly declined after 1600:\nIn the Papal States, which existed until 1870, Jews were required to live only in specified neighborhoods called ghettos. Until the 1840s, they were required to regularly attend sermons urging their conversion to Christianity. Only Jews were taxed to support state boarding schools for Jewish converts to Christianity. It was illegal to convert from Christianity to Judaism. Sometimes Jews were baptized involuntarily, and, even when such baptisms were illegal, forced to practice the Christian religion. In many such cases, the state separated them from their families, of which the Edgardo Mortara account is one of the most widely publicized instances of acrimony between Catholics and Jews in the Papal States in the second half of the 19th century.\n\nAccording to Mark R. Cohen, during the rise of Islam, the first encounters between Muslims and Jews resulted in friendship when the Jews of Medina gave Muhammad refuge. Conflict arose when Muhammad expelled certain Jewish tribes after they refused to swear their allegiance to him and aided the Meccan Pagans. He adds that this encounter was an exception rather than a rule.\n\nTraditionally, Jews living in Muslim lands, known as dhimmis, were allowed to practice their religion and administer their internal affairs but were subjects to certain conditions. They had to pay the jizya (a per capita tax imposed on free adult non-Muslim males) to Muslims. Dhimmis had an inferior status under Islamic rule. They had several social and legal disabilities such as prohibitions against bearing arms or giving testimony in courts in cases involving Muslims. Contrary to popular belief, the Qur'an did not allow Muslims to force Jews to wear distinctive clothing. Obadiah the Proselyte reported in 1100 AD, that the Caliph had created this rule himself.\n\nResentment toward Jews perceived as having attained too lofty a position in Islamic society also fueled antisemitism and massacres. In Moorish Spain, ibn Hazm and Abu Ishaq focused their anti-Jewish writings on this allegation. This was also the chief motivation behind the 1066 Granada massacre, when \"[m]ore than 1,500 Jewish families, numbering 4,000 persons, fell in one day\", and in Fez in 1033, when 6,000 Jews were killed. There were further massacres in Fez in 1276 and 1465.\n\nIn the Zaydi imamate of Yemen, Jews were also singled out for discrimination in the 17th century, which culminated in the general expulsion of all Jews from places in Yemen to the arid coastal plain of Tihamah and which became known as the Mawza Exile.\n\nThe Damascus affair occurred in 1840 when a French monk and his servant disappeared in Damascus. Immediately following, a charge of ritual murder was brought against a large number of Jews in the city including children who were tortured. The consuls of the United Kingdom, France and Germany as well as Ottoman authorities, Christians, Muslims and Jews all played a great role in this affair.\nFollowing the Damascus affair, Pogroms spread through the Middle East and North Africa. Pogroms occurred in: Aleppo (1850, 1875), Damascus (1840, 1848, 1890), Beirut (1862, 1874), Dayr al-Qamar (1847), Jerusalem (1847), Cairo (1844, 1890, 1901–02), Mansura (1877), Alexandria (1870, 1882, 1901–07), Port Said (1903, 1908), Damanhur (1871, 1873, 1877, 1891), Istanbul (1870, 1874), Buyukdere (1864), Kuzguncuk (1866), Eyub (1868), Edirne (1872), Izmir (1872, 1874).\nThere was a massacre of Jews in Baghdad in 1828. There was another massacre in Barfurush in 1867.\n\nIn 1839, in the eastern Persian city of Meshed, a mob burst into the Jewish Quarter, burned the synagogue, and destroyed the Torah scrolls. This is known as the Allahdad incident. It was only by forcible conversion that a massacre was averted.\n\nIn Palestine there were riots and pogroms against Jews in 1920 and 1921. Tensions over the Western Wall in Jerusalem led to the 1929 Palestine riots, whose main victims were the ancient Jewish community at Hebron which came to an end.\n\nIn 1941, following Rashid Ali's pro-Axis coup, riots known as the \"Farhud\" broke out in Baghdad in which approximately 180 Jews were killed and about 240 were wounded, 586 Jewish-owned businesses were looted and 99 Jewish houses were destroyed.\n\nDuring the Holocaust, the Middle East was in turmoil. Britain prohibited Jewish immigration to the British Mandate of Palestine. In Cairo the Jewish Lehi (also known as the Stern Gang) assassinated Lord Moyne in 1944 fighting as part of its campaign against British closure of Palestine to Jewish immigration, complicating British-Arab-Jewish relations. While the Allies and the Axis were fighting for the oil-rich region, the Mufti of Jerusalem Amin al-Husayni staged a pro-Nazi coup in Iraq and organized the Farhud pogrom which marked the turning point for about 150,000 Iraqi Jews who, following this event and the hostilities generated by the war with Israel in 1948, were targeted for violence, persecution, boycotts, confiscations, and near complete expulsion in 1951. The coup failed and the mufti fled to Berlin, where he actively supported Hitler. In Egypt, with a Jewish population of about 75,000, young Anwar Sadat was imprisoned for conspiring with the Nazis and promised them that \"no British soldier would leave Egypt alive\" (see Military history of Egypt during World War II) leaving the Jews of that region defenseless. In the French Vichy territories of Algeria and Syria plans had been drawn up for the liquidation of their Jewish populations were the Axis powers to triumph.\n\nThe tensions of the Arab–Israeli conflict were also a factor in the rise of animosity to Jews all over the Middle East, as hundreds of thousands of Jews fled as refugees, the main waves being soon after the 1948 and 1956 wars. In reaction to the Suez Crisis of 1956, the Egyptian government expelled almost 25,000 Egyptian Jews and confiscated their property, and sent approximately 1,000 more Jews to prisons and detention camps. The population of Jewish communities of Muslim Middle East and North Africa was reduced from about 900,000 in 1948 to less than 8,000 today.\n\nOn March 2, 1974, the bodies of four Syrian Jewish girls were discovered by border police in a cave in the Zabdani Mountains northwest of Damascus. Fara Zeibak 24, her sisters Lulu Zeibak 23, Mazal Zeibak 22 and their cousin Eva Saad 18, had contracted with a band of smugglers to flee from Syria to Lebanon and eventually to Israel. The girl’s bodies were found raped, murdered and mutilated. The police also found the remains of two Jewish boys, Natan Shaya 18 and Kassem Abadi 20, victims of an earlier massacre. Syrian authorities deposited the bodies of all six in sacks before the homes of their parents in the Jewish ghetto in Damascus.\n\nThe persecution of Jews reached its most destructive form in the policies of Nazi Germany, which made the destruction of the Jews a priority, culminating in the killing of approximately 6,000,000 Jews during the Holocaust from 1941 to 1945. Originally, the Nazis used death squads, the Einsatzgruppen, to conduct massive open-air killings of Jews in territory that they conquered. By 1942, the Nazi leadership decided to implement the Final Solution, the genocide of the Jews of Europe, and to increase the pace of the Holocaust by establishing extermination camps specifically to kill Jews as well as other undesirables such as people who openly opposed Hitler.\n\nThis was an industrial method of genocide. Millions of Jews who had been confined to diseased and massively overcrowded ghettos were transported (often by train) to death camps, where some were herded into a specific location (often a gas chamber), then killed with either gassing or shooting. Other prisoners simply committed suicide, unable to go on after witnessing the horrors of camp life. Afterward, their bodies were often searched for any valuable or useful materials, such as gold fillings or hair, and their remains were then buried in mass graves or burned. Others were interned in the camps where they were given little food and disease was common.\n\nEscapes from the camps were few, but not unknown. The few Auschwitz escapes that succeeded were made possible by the Polish underground inside the camp and local people outside. In 1940, the Auschwitz commandant reported that \"the local population is fanatically Polish and … prepared to take any action against the hated SS camp personnel. Every prisoner who managed to escape can count on help the moment he reaches the wall of a first Polish farmstead.\"\n\nFor much of the 19th century, Imperial Russia, which included much of Poland, Ukraine, Moldova and Baltic states, contained the world's largest Jewish population. From Alexander III's reign until the end of Tsarist rule in Russia, many Jews were often restricted to the Jewish Pale of Settlement and they were also banned from many jobs and locations. Jews were subject to racist laws, such as the May Laws, and they were also targeted in hundreds of violent anti-Jewish riots, called pogroms, which received unofficial state support. It was during this period that a hoax document alleging a global Jewish conspiracy, \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", was created.\n\nThe Czarist government implemented programs which ensured that the Jews would remain isolated. However, the government tolerated their religious and national institutions as well as their right to emigrate. The restrictions and discriminatory laws drove many Russian Jews to embrace liberal and socialist causes. However, following the Russian Revolution many politically active Jews forfeited their Jewish identity. According to Leon Trotsky,\n\n[Jews] considered themselves neither Jews nor Russians but socialists. To them, Jews were not a nation but a class of exploiters whose fate it was to dissolve and assimilate.\n\nIn the aftermath of Czarist Russia, Jews found themselves in a tragic predicament. Conservative Russians saw them as a disloyal and subversive element and the radicals viewed the Jews as a doomed social class.\n\nEven though many of the Old Bolsheviks were ethnically Jewish, they sought to uproot Judaism and Zionism and established the \"Yevsektsiya\" in order to achieve this goal. By the end of the 1940s, the Communist leadership of the former USSR had liquidated almost all Jewish organizations, with the exception of a few token synagogues. These synagogues were then placed under police surveillance, both openly and through the use of informants.\n\nThe campaign of 1948–1953 against so-called \"rootless cosmopolitans,\" the alleged \"Doctors' plot,\" the rise of \"Zionology\" and subsequent activities of official organizations such as the Anti-Zionist committee of the Soviet public were officially carried out under the banner of \"anti-Zionism,\", and by the mid-1950s the state persecution of Soviet Jews emerged as a major human rights issue in the West as well as domestically.\n\nDuring the 1930s, many Nationalist Party leaders and wide sections of the Afrikaner people came strongly under the influence of the Nazi movement which dominated Germany from 1933 to 1945. There were many reasons for this. Germany was the traditional enemy of Britain, and whoever opposed Britain was seen as a friend of the Nationalists. Many Nationalists, moreover, believed that the opportunity to re-establish their lost republic would come with the defeat of the British Empire in the international arena. The more belligerent Hitler became, the higher hopes rose that a new era of Afrikanerdom was about to dawn.\n\nThe National Party of D F Malan closely associated itself with the policies of the Nazis. Jewish immigration from Eastern Europe was controlled under the Aliens Act and it soon came to an end during this period. Although Jews were accorded status as Europeans, they were not accepted into white society. The Kelvin Grove sports club, for example, had an exclusive Europeans Only and No Jews policy until recent times. Some 11 such sports clubs had similar policies. Many Jews lived in mixed race areas such as District Six, from where they were forcibly removed in order to make way for a whites-only development.\n\nIn 1936, Hendrick Verwoerd joined a deputation of six professors who were protesting against the admission to South Africa of Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany. Following the demands of the Nationalist Party, Eric Louw, later Foreign Minister, introduced another anti-Semitic bill that strongly resembled Nazi legislation - the Aliens Amendment and Immigration Bill of 1939. His bill was a means of suppressing all Jews. This bill suggested that Jews threatened to overpower Protestants in the business world, that they were innately cunning and manipulative and that they were also a danger to society. To support his claim, Louw maintained that Jews were involved in the Bolshevik Revolution and therefore intended to spread Communism worldwide. This bill defined Jews as anyone with parents who were at least partly Jewish regardless of actual religious faith or practices.\" \n\nAnother organization with which the Nationalists found much in common during the thirties was the 'South African Gentile National Socialist Movement', headed by Johannes von Strauss von Moltke, whose objective was to combat and destroy the alleged 'perversive influence of the Jews in economics, culture, religion, ethics, and statecraft and to re-establish European Aryan control in South Africa for the welfare of the Christian peoples of South Africa'.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Oswald Mosley, the British fascist leader, was a frequent visitor to South Africa, where he was received by the Prime Minister and other members of the Cabinet. At one time, Mosley had two functioning branches of his organization in South Africa, and one of his supporters, Derek Alexander, was stationed in Johannesburg as his main agent.\n\nUpon Verwoerd's assassination in 1966, BJ Vorster was elected by the National Party to replace him. While Vorster had been a supporter of Hitler during WWII, his policy towards Jews in his own country, however, can best be described as ambivalent.\nThe 1980s saw the rise of far-right neo-Nazi groups such as the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging under Eugene Terreblanche. The AWB modeled itself after Hitler's National Socialist Party replete with fascist regalia and an emblem resembling the swastika.\n"}
{"id": "168486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168486", "title": "Political culture of Canada", "text": "Political culture of Canada\n\nThe political culture of Canada is in some ways part of a greater North American and European political culture, which emphasizes constitutional law, freedom of religion, personal liberty, and regional autonomy; these ideas stemming in various degrees from the British common law and French civil law traditions, North American aboriginal government, and English civic traditions, among others.\n\nCanada has a tradition of liberalism in the centrist context, as far-right and far-left politics have never been a prominent force in Canadian society. Peace, order, and good government are stated goals of the Canadian government. Individual rights, equality and inclusiveness (a just society) have risen to the forefront of political and legal importance for most Canadians, as demonstrated through support for the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, a relatively free economy, and social liberal attitudes toward homosexuality, women's rights, and other egalitarian movements. However, there is also a sense of collective responsibility in Canadian political culture, as is demonstrated in general support for universal health care, multiculturalism, gun control, foreign aid, and other social programs.\n\nCanada has been dominated by two parties, the centre-left Liberal Party of Canada and the centre-right Conservative Party of Canada. The historically predominant Liberals position themselves at the center of the political scale with the Conservatives siting on the right and the New Democratic Party occupying the left-wing. Smaller parties like the Quebec nationalist Bloc Québécois and the Green Party of Canada have also been able to exert their influence over the political process by representation at the federal level.\n\nCanadian political parties and leaders can be analyzed based on various positions.\n\nIn the 19th century, the Liberal Party stood for British classical liberalism and free trade, and the Conservatives, especially the Red Tories, for protectionism. In the 20th century, however, the Liberal Party adopted more elements of European reform liberalism and co-opted elements of the social-democratic Progressive Party of Canada, and Co-operative Commonwealth Federation.\n\nIn the 1990s, the Liberals shifted back to a more neoliberal position on the economy and trade. Within the Reform Party of Canada there was an element of anti-market populism but this faded as the Reform Party became more associated with US-style conservatism. The NDP have retained many of the socialist tendencies of the former CCF.\n\nIn regard to federal-provincial relations it can be said that BQ are separatist, the Conservatives decentralist, the Liberals centralist, and the NDP supporters of asymmetric federalism.\n\nWith regards to issues of diversity (bilingualism and multiculturalism), the Conservatives tend to be more majoritarian, favouring a reduced scope for official bilingualism and a more assimilationist approach to immigrants and Native peoples. The Liberals and NDP are more pluralistic including generous government support for minority cultures, while the BQ favour viewing Canada as two separate societies (English Canada and Quebec), and advocate strong protections for French language and culture in Quebec while remaining unconcerned about issues with other minorities or in other parts of the country.\n\nIn the 19th century, the Conservatives were a party of protectionism and the Liberals favoured free trade with the US.\n\nIn the 19th \nand early \n20th centuries, English Canada remained strongly committed to the British Empire and Protestantism. French Canada was more anti-imperialist and strongly Catholic. Attempting to form stable parties that could win seats in both areas was a daunting task and led to political deadlock in the Province of Canada before Confederation.\n\nDuring the era of Confederation, British-style Whig liberals from Canada West, the Clear Grits and Reformers, attempted to work with the anti-clerical minority in Canada East, the Parti rouge, and liberals in the Maritimes to form the Liberal Party. The avowedly anti-democratic Tories of the English colonies attempted to create a coalition with conservative Catholics in Canada East, the Parti bleu.\n\nKeeping these diverse coalitions united remained difficult when interests cut across party lines, and instead inflamed sectional feeling. The first such issues were the two Riel Rebellions of 1869 and 1885 which hardened Catholic–Protestant animosity. The Tory government of Sir John A. Macdonald, himself an Orangeman, eventually oversaw the execution of Metis leader Louis Riel (a devout Catholic) for treason. The Tory party was decimated in Quebec, and the Liberal party everywhere else.\n\nEventually, Sir Wilfrid Laurier was able to lead the Liberals back to a competitive position in English Canada, but by the time of the First World War, and the Conscription Crisis of 1917, Laurier again found himself in charge of a Liberal Party limited to Quebec and a few other pockets. In part because of the memories of these eras, the Tory party gained a reputation as being anti-Catholic and anti-French and remained substantially weaker than the Liberals in Quebec from the 1890s to the 1980s, with the lone exception of 1958. Meanwhile, Laurier's Liberals were accused of not supporting Britain forcefully enough during the Boer War and with the creation of the Canadian Navy, widely disparaged as a Tin Pot Navy, which hurt his party in Anglo-Saxon Ontario.\n\nSince that time, sectarianism has faded substantially as an issue in Canada, and relations with Britain are no longer of nearly the same importance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "915117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915117", "title": "Portobelo, Colón", "text": "Portobelo, Colón\n\nPortobelo (historically Porto Bello in English) is a port city and corregimiento in Portobelo District, Colón Province, Panama with a population of 4,559 . Established during the Spanish colonial period, it functions as the seat of Portobelo District. Located on the northern part of the Isthmus of Panama, it has a deep natural harbor and served as a center for silver exporting before the mid-eighteenth century and its destruction in 1739 during the War of Jenkins' Ear.\n\nIt slowly rebuilt and the city's economy revived briefly in the late-nineteenth century during construction of the Panama Canal. In 1980 UNESCO designated the ruins of the Spanish colonial fortifications, along with nearby Fort San Lorenzo, as a World Heritage Site, named .\n\nPortobelo was colonized in 1597 by Spanish explorer Francisco Velarde y Mercado and quickly replaced Nombre de Dios as a Caribbean port for Peruvian silver. Legend has it that Christopher Columbus originally named the port \"Puerto Bello\", meaning \"Beautiful Port\", in 1502. After Francis Drake died of dysentery in 1596 at sea, he was said to be buried in a lead coffin near Portobelo Bay. From the 16th to the 18th centuries, it was an important silver-exporting port in New Granada on the Spanish Main and one of the ports on the route of the Spanish treasure fleets. The Spanish built defensive fortifications.\n\nThe privateer William Parker attacked and captured the city in 1601 and Captain Henry Morgan repeated the feat in 1668. He led a fleet of privateers and 450 men against Portobelo, which, in spite of its good fortifications, he captured. His forces plundered it for 14 days, stripping nearly all its wealth while raping, torturing and killing the inhabitants. It was captured again in 1680 by John Coxon\n\nThe British had a disaster in the Blockade of Porto Bello under Admiral Hosier in 1726. As part of the campaigns of the War of Jenkins' Ear, the port was attacked on November 21, 1739, and captured by a British fleet of six ships, commanded by Admiral Edward Vernon. The British victory created an outburst of popular acclaim throughout the British Empire. More medals were struck for Vernon than for any other 18th-century British figure. Across the British Isles, Portobello was used in place and street names in honor of the victory, such as Portobello Road in London, the Portobello area in Edinburgh, and the Portobello Barracks in Dublin.\n\nThe Spanish quickly recovered the Panamanian town and defeated Admiral Vernon in the Battle of Cartagena de Indias in 1741. Vernon was forced to return to England with a decimated fleet, having suffered more than 18,000 casualties. Despite the Portobello campaign, British efforts to gain a foothold in the Spanish Main and disrupt the galleon trade were fruitless. Following the War of Jenkins' Ear, the Spanish switched from large fleets calling at few ports to small fleets trading at a wide variety of ports, developing a flexibility that made them less subject to attack. The ships also began to travel around Cape Horn to trade directly at ports on the western coast.\n\nIts population as of 1990 was 3,058; its population as of 2000 was 3,867. In July 2012, the UNESCO World Heritage Committee placed Portobelo and nearby Fort San Lorenzo on the List of World Heritage in Danger, inscribed as , citing environmental factors, lack of maintenance, and uncontrollable urban developments.\n\nPortobelo is hosting dozen of anchored sail boats. There is an immigration office in the village and boat services taking passengers to Colombia. From $160/person with the taxi boat 'Naturalstour' to $550 on private sail boats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "869140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=869140", "title": "Preverb", "text": "Preverb\n\nAlthough not widely accepted in linguistics, the term preverb is used in Caucasian (including all three families: Northwest Caucasian, Northeast Caucasian and Kartvelian), Caddoan, Athabaskan, and Algonquian linguistics to describe certain elements prefixed to verbs. In the context of Indo-European languages, the term is usually used for separable verb prefixes.\n\nTheoretically, any prefix could be called a preverbal element. However, in practice, the term \"preverb\" applies more narrowly in those families and refers to a prefixed element that is normally outside the premise of verbal morphology like locations of noun elements or, less often, noun elements themselves.\n\nIn Northwest Caucasian languages, they can have nouns, directional and locative preverbs (like prepositions), like in this example from Ubykh:\n\nIn Caddoan linguistics, preverbal elements are less well defined as a class, and often, \"preverb\" designates a part of the verbal root that can be separated from the rest of the root by certain prefixes, as in this Wichita example:\n\nFor Mandarin Chinese and many other varieties of Chinese, the term refers to some words that carry the meanings of prepositions in English. In Chinese, they are lexically verbs and appear before the noun in question. They are more commonly referred to as coverbs.\n\nIn Georgian, a Kartvelian language, the main function of a preverb is to distinguish the present tenses and the future tenses. To turn a present tense verb into a future tense, a preverb is added to the verb compound. In addition, preverbs also have directional meanings in Georgian.\n\nPreverbs are directly attached to the beginning of the verb compound:\n\nNote in those two examples that the meaning of the future tense is achieved only by adding the preverb; no other grammatical change occurs. In these examples, preverbs have directional meanings:\n\nAgain, note that only the preverbs are changed to convey the meaning of various directional meanings. It should also be noted that preverbs add directional meanings not only to the verbs of motion but also to any other kind of verbs. Compare the examples of the verb -\"tser\"- (\"write\"):\n\nAs can be seen from the examples, the preverb changes according to the indirect object (the person for (to) whom the verb is being done).\n\nMany verbs have a common root. For example, \"end\" and \"stay\" have the same verb root, -\"rch\"-. The meanings of the verbs are distinguished by their preverbs and other elements of the verb compound:\n\nAs is clear, the verbs are identical in the present tense but differ in the future tense by their preverbs.\n\nA preverb is a morpheme, which is applied together with the participles modifying their meaning and the meaning of their derivates.\n\nPersian preverbs, referred to as \"āndar\" or \"dar\", are:\n\n\nPre-verbs can modify the procedure attribute of the verbs and the infinitives, but they do not change their objective attribute:\n\n.او کتابی داشت (static attribute)\n\nU ketābi dāsht.\n.او کتابی را برداشت (dynamic attribute)\n\nU ketabi bar dāsht. \n\nThe Pre-verb is normally positioned ahead of the verb. If the verb is composed of two separable components, the pre-verb is positioned ahead of the second component. The Pre-verb can be positioned at the end of the sentence, owing to versification requirements:\n\nاز کارِ خير عزمِ تو هرگز نگشت باز\n\nهرگز زِ راه بازنگشته‌ست هيچ تير\n\nManuchehri (11th - 12th Century AD)\n\nIn Algonquian languages, preverbs can be described as phonologically separate words that may precede a verb and share its inflection. In particular, pronominal prefixes or initial change are applied to the first preverb, if any, of the verb complex rather than to the verb stem. Their meaning can range from past tense or perfective aspect to meanings for which English might use an adverb or another verb, like these from Ojibwe:\nIn Munsee, some words can come between a preverb and its verb.\n\nSee also prenoun in such languages.\n\nPingelapese is a language spoken on the Island of Pingelap atoll, located in Micronesia. This language uses preverbs in existential sentences, one of their four sentence structures. The verb is used when a character of a story or statement is already known.\n"}
{"id": "16657846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16657846", "title": "Prohibition of death", "text": "Prohibition of death\n\nProhibition of death is a political social phenomenon and taboo in which a law is passed stating that it is illegal to die, usually specifically in a certain political division or in a specific building.\n\nThe earliest case of prohibition of death occurred in the 5th century BC, on the Greek island of Delos; dying on Delos was prohibited on religious grounds.\n\nToday, in most cases, the prohibition of death is a satirical response to the government's failure to approve the expansion of municipal cemeteries. In Spain, one town has prohibited death; in France, there have been several settlements which have had death prohibited; whilst in Biritiba Mirim, in Brazil, an attempt to prohibit death took place in 2005.\n\nThere is a falsely rumored prohibition on recording deaths in royal palaces in the United Kingdom, for rather different reasons.\n\nThe island of Delos was considered a sacred and holy place by the ancient Greeks, and various measures were taken to \"purify\" the island and render it fit for the proper worship of the gods. In the 6th century BC, the tyrant Peisistratus, of the city-state of Athens, ordered that all graves within sight of the island's temple be dug up and the bodies removed to locations on or beyond the perimeter. In the 5th century BC, under instruction from the Delphic Oracle, the entire island was purged of all dead bodies, and it was forbidden for anybody else to die or give birth on the island.\n\nThe mayor of Biritiba-Mirim filed a public bill in 2005, to make it illegal for the people living in the town to die. Although no specific punishments have been presented, the mayor intends to target relatives of people who die with fines and even jail if necessary to get more space for tombstones.\n\nThe main reason for the attempt to pass such a law with such severe punishments if broken is that the town's 28,000 inhabitants apparently do not look after their health properly, making them more vulnerable to death, which would mean having to bury more corpses in the already full cemetery. Since the cemetery was inaugurated in 1910, over 50,000 people have been buried in 3,500 crypts and tombs. In November 2005, the cemetery was declared to be full and 20 recently deceased residents were forced to share a crypt, and several others were buried under the walkways.\n\nThe mayor, to support his uncommon proposal for a law, stated that 89% of the town is occupied by rivers, of which most are underground and serve as vital water sources for nearly two million people living in São Paulo, and that the remaining area is protected because it consists of tropical jungle. So, public land five times the size of the cemetery was set aside to provide space for a new one, which environmental experts claim will not affect water tables or surrounding tropical forest. The environment council decided to analyze such a solution carefully, while the state government had agreed to help build a new vertical cemetery; but, , nothing has been done, and the law has not yet been passed, leaving the situation in suspense.\n\nThree settlements in southern France have prohibited death. The mayor of Le Lavandou outlawed death in 2000, after planning permission for a new cemetery was turned down due to environmental concerns. He described the new bylaw as \"an absurd law to counter an absurd situation\". In 2007, Cugnaux also prohibited death, for similar reasons, and was subsequently granted permission to enlarge the local cemetery; inspired by the town's success, Sarpourenx was next to follow suit, in 2008.\n\nThe island of Itsukushima is considered a sacred location in Shinto belief, and is the site of the Itsukushima Shrine, an UNESCO World Heritage Site. Purity is of utmost concern in Shinto worship, and because of this, the shrine's priests have attempted to keep the island free of the pollution of death. Immediately after the Battle of Miyajima in 1555, the only battle to have taken place on the island, the victorious commander had the bodies of the fallen troops removed to the mainland, and ordered that the entire battlefield be cleansed of the blood that was spilled, to the point that buildings were scrubbed and blood-soaked soil was removed from the island. Retaining the purity of the Itsukushima Shrine is so important that since 1878, no deaths or births have been permitted near the shrine. To this day, pregnant women are supposed to retreat to the mainland as the day of delivery approaches, as are terminally ill or the very elderly whose passing has become imminent. Burials on the island are still forbidden.\n\nDeath has been prohibited in the Andalucian town of Lanjarón. The village, with 4,000 inhabitants, is to remain under this law until the government buys land for a new cemetery. The mayor who issued the edict explains that the awkward new law is his response to politicians urging him to find a quick fix for a long-lasting problem. The edict has become wildly popular amongst residents, even amongst political opponents of the mayor who issued the law, and was received with a sense of humor from most.\n\nA story sometimes reported in the United Kingdom states it is forbidden for commoners to die in a royal palace, such as the Palace of Westminster, on the grounds that anyone who dies in a royal palace is technically entitled to a state funeral.\nHowever, this has been proved to be a myth.\n"}
{"id": "34094104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34094104", "title": "Rachel (sculpture)", "text": "Rachel (sculpture)\n\nThe Rachel is a sculpture by Michelangelo of the Old Testament figure Rachel. Like the \"Leah\", it was part of the final, 1542-1545 design for the tomb of Pope Julius II in San Pietro in Vincoli, on which it still remains.\n\n"}
{"id": "42086824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42086824", "title": "Reconstructions of Old Chinese", "text": "Reconstructions of Old Chinese\n\nAlthough Old Chinese is known from written records beginning around 1200 BC, the logographic script provides much more indirect and partial information about the pronunciation of the language than alphabetic systems used elsewhere.\nSeveral authors have produced reconstructions of Old Chinese phonology, beginning with the Swedish sinologist Bernard Karlgren in the 1940s and continuing to the present day.\nThe method introduced by Karlgren is unique, comparing categories implied by ancient rhyming practice and the structure of Chinese characters with descriptions in medieval rhyme dictionaries, though more recent approaches have also incorporated other kinds of evidence.\n\nAlthough the various notations appear to be very different, they correspond with each other on most points.\nBy the 1970s, it was generally agreed that Old Chinese had fewer points of articulation than Middle Chinese, a set of voiceless sonorants, and labiovelar and labio-laryngeal initials.\nSince the 1990s, most authors have agreed on a six-vowel system and a re-organized system of liquids.\nEarlier systems proposed voiced final stops to account for contacts between stop-final syllables and other tones, but many investigators now believe that Old Chinese lacked tonal distinctions, with Middle Chinese tones derived from consonant clusters at the end of the syllable.\n\nThe major sources for the sounds of Old Chinese, covering most of the lexicon, are the sound system of Middle Chinese (7th century AD), the structure of Chinese characters, and the rhyming patterns of the \"Classic of Poetry\" (\"Shijing\"), dating from the early part of the 1st millennium BC.\nSeveral other kinds of evidence are less comprehensive, but provide valuable clues.\nThese include Min dialects, early Chinese transcriptions of foreign names, early loans between Chinese and neighbouring languages, and families of Chinese words that appear to be related.\n\nMiddle Chinese, or more precisely Early Middle Chinese, is the phonological system of the \"Qieyun\", a rhyme dictionary published in 601, with many revisions and expansions over the following centuries.\nThese dictionaries set out to codify the pronunciations of characters to be used when reading the classics.\nThey indicated pronunciation using the \"fanqie\" method, dividing a syllable into an initial consonant and the rest, called the final.\nIn his \"Qièyùn kǎo\" (1842), the Cantonese scholar Chen Li performed a systematic analysis of a later redaction of the \"Qieyun\", identifying its initial and final categories, though not the sounds they represented.\nScholars have attempted to determine the phonetic content of the various distinctions by comparing them with rhyme tables from the Song dynasty, pronunciations in modern varieties and loans in Korean, Japanese and Vietnamese (the Sinoxenic materials), but many details regarding the finals are still disputed.\nAccording to its preface, the \"Qieyun\" did not reflect a single contemporary dialect, but incorporated distinctions made in different parts of China at the time (a diasystem).\n\nThe fact that the \"Qieyun\" system contains more distinctions than any single contemporary form of speech means that it retains additional information about the history of the language.\nThe large number of initials and finals are unevenly distributed, suggesting hypotheses about earlier forms of Chinese.\nFor example, it includes 37 initials, but in the early 20th century Huang Kan observed that only 19 of them occurred with a wide range of finals, implying that the others were in some sense secondary developments.\n\nThe logographic Chinese writing system does not use symbols for individual sounds as is done an alphabetic system.\nHowever, the vast majority of characters are phono-semantic compounds, in which a word is written by combining a character for a similarly sounding word with a semantic indicator.\nOften characters sharing a phonetic element (forming a phonetic series) are still pronounced alike, as in the character 中 (\"zhōng\", \"middle\"), which was adapted to write the words \"chōng\" (\"pour\", 沖) and \"zhōng\" (\"loyal\", 忠).\nIn other cases the words in a phonetic series have very different sounds both in Middle Chinese and in modern varieties.\nSince the sounds are assumed to have been similar at the time the characters were chosen, such relationships give clues to the lost sounds.\n\nThe first systematic study of the structure of Chinese characters was Xu Shen's \"Shuowen Jiezi\" (100 AD).\nThe \"Shuowen\" was mostly based on the small seal script standardized in the Qin dynasty.\nEarlier characters from oracle bones and Zhou bronze inscriptions often reveal relationships that were obscured in later forms.\n\nRhyme has been a consistent feature of Chinese poetry.\nWhile much old poetry still rhymes in modern varieties of Chinese, Chinese scholars have long noted exceptions.\nThis was attributed to lax rhyming practice of early poets until the late-Ming dynasty scholar Chen Di argued that a former consistency had been obscured by sound change.\nThis implied that the rhyming practice of ancient poets recorded information about their pronunciation.\nScholars have studied various bodies of poetry to identify classes of rhyming words at different periods.\n\nThe oldest such collection is the \"Shijing\", containing songs ranging from the 10th to 7th centuries BC.\nThe systematic study of Old Chinese rhymes began in the 17th century, when Gu Yanwu divided the rhyming words of the \"Shijing\" into ten groups (韻部 \"yùnbù\").\nGu's analysis was refined by Qing dynasty philologists, steadily increasing the number of rhyme groups.\nOne of these scholars, Duan Yucai, stated the important principle that characters in the same phonetic series would be in the same rhyme group, making it possible to assign almost all words to rhyme groups.\nA final revision by Wang Li in the 1930s produced the standard set of 31 rhyme groups.\n\nThe Min dialects are believed to have split off before the Middle Chinese stage, because they contain distinctions that cannot be derived from the \"Qieyun\" system.\nFor example, the following dental initials have been identified in reconstructed proto-Min:\n\nOther points of articulation show similar distinctions within stops and nasals.\nProto-Min voicing is inferred from the development of Min tones, but the phonetic values of the initials are otherwise uncertain.\nThe sounds indicated as *\"-t\", *\"-d\", etc. are known as \"softened stops\" due to their reflexes in Jianyang and nearby Min varieties in Fujian, where they appear as fricatives or approximants, or are missing entirely, while the non-softened variants appear as stops. Evidence from early loans into Mienic languages suggests that the softened stops were prenasalized.\n\nSeveral early texts contain transcriptions of foreign names and terms using Chinese characters for their phonetic values.\nOf particular importance are the many Buddhist transcriptions of the Eastern Han period, because the native pronunciation of the source languages, such as Sanskrit and Pali, is known in detail.\n\nEastern Han commentaries on the classics contain many remarks on the pronunciations of particular words, which has yielded a great deal of information on the pronunciations and even dialectal variation of the period.\nBy studying such glosses, the Qing philologist Qian Daxin discovered that the labio-dental and retroflex stop initials identified in the rhyme table tradition were not present in the Han period.\n\nMany students of Chinese have noted \"word families\", groups of words with related meanings and variant pronunciations, sometimes written using the same character.\nOne common case is \"derivation by tone change\", in which words in the departing tone appear to be derived from words in other tones.\nAnother alternation involves transitive verbs with an unvoiced initial and passive or stative verbs with a voiced initial, though scholars are divided on which form is basic.\n\nIn the earliest period, Chinese was spoken in the valley of the Yellow River, surrounded by neighbouring languages, some of whose relatives, particularly Austroasiatic and the Tai–Kadai and Miao–Yao languages, are still spoken today. The earliest borrowings in both directions provide further evidence of Old Chinese sounds, though complicated by uncertainty about the reconstruction of early forms of those languages.\n\nMany authors have produced their own reconstructions of Old Chinese.\nA few of the most influential are listed here.\n\nThe first complete reconstruction of Old Chinese was produced by the Swedish linguist Bernhard Karlgren in a dictionary of Middle and Old Chinese, the \"Grammata Serica\" (1940), revised in 1957 as the \"Grammata Serica Recensa\" (GSR). Although Karlgren's Old Chinese reconstructions have been superseded, his comprehensive dictionary remains a valuable reference for students of Old Chinese, and characters are routinely identified by their GSR position.\nKarlgren's remained the most commonly used until it was superseded by the system of Li Fang-Kuei in the 1970s.\n\nIn his \"Études sur la phonologie chinoise\" (1915–1926), Karlgren produced the first complete reconstruction of Middle Chinese (which he called \"Ancient Chinese\").\nHe presented his system as a narrow transcription of the sounds of the standard language of the Tang dynasty.\nBeginning with his \"Analytical Dictionary of Chinese and Sino-Japanese\" (1923), he compared these sounds across groups of words written with Chinese characters with the same phonetic component.\nNoting that such words were not always pronounced identically in Middle Chinese, he postulated that their initials had a common point of articulation in an earlier phase he called \"Archaic Chinese\", but which is now usually called Old Chinese.\nFor example, he postulated velar consonants as initials in the series\nIn rarer cases where different types of initials occurred in the same series, as in\nhe postulated initial clusters *kl- and *gl-.\n\nKarlgren believed that the voiced initials of Middle Chinese were aspirated, and projected these back onto Old Chinese.\nHe also proposed a series of unaspirated voiced initials to account for other correspondences, but later workers have discarded these in favour of alternative explanations.\nKarlgren accepted the argument of the Qing philologist Qian Daxin that the Middle Chinese dental and retroflex stop series were not distinguished in Old Chinese, but otherwise proposed the same points of articulation in Old Chinese as in Middle Chinese.\nThis led him to the following series of initial consonants:\nTo account for the broad variety of vowels in his reconstruction of Middle Chinese, Karlgren also proposed a complex inventory of Old Chinese vowels:\n\nHe also had a secondary vowel *i, which occurred only in combination with other vowels.\nAs with Middle Chinese, Karlgren viewed his reconstruction as a narrow transcription of the sounds of Old Chinese.\nThus *e rhymed with *ĕ in the \"Shijing\", *a rhymed with *ă and *â, *ɛ rhymed with *ĕ and *ŭ, *ŭ rhymed with *u, *ô rhymed with *ộ, and *o rhymed with *ǒ and *å.\n\nKarlgren projected the final consonants of Middle Chinese, semivowels /j/ and /w/, nasals /m/, /n/ and /ŋ/, and stops /p/, /t/ and /k/ back onto Old Chinese.\nHe also noted many cases where words in the departing tone rhymed or shared a phonetic element with words ending in a stop, e.g.\nHe suggested that the departing tone words in such pairs had ended with a final voiced stop ( or ) in Old Chinese.\nTo account for occasional contacts between Middle Chinese finals \"-j\" and \"-n\", Karlgren proposed that \"-j\" in such pairs derived from Old Chinese .\nHe believed there was insufficient evidence to support definitive statements about Old Chinese tones.\n\nIn a pair of papers published in 1960, the Russian linguist Sergei Yakhontov proposed two revisions to the structure of Old Chinese that are now widely accepted.\nHe proposed that both the retroflex initials and the division-II vowels of Middle Chinese derived from the Old Chinese medial *-l- that Karlgren had proposed to account for phonetic series contacts with \"l-\".\nYakhontov also observed that the Middle Chinese semi-vowel \"-w-\" had a limited distribution, occurring either after velar or laryngeal initials or before finals \"-aj\", \"-an\" or \"at\".\nHe suggested that \"-w-\" had two sources, deriving from either a new series of labio-velar and labio-laryngeal initials, or from a vowel \"-o-\", which subsequently broke to \"-wa-\" before dental codas.\n\nYakhontov proposed a simpler seven-vowel system:\n\nHowever these vowels had an uneven distribution, with *ä and *â almost in complementary distribution and *ü occurring only in open syllables and before *-k.\nHis final consonants were the nasals *-m, *-n and *-ng, corresponding stops *-p, *-t and *-k, as well as *-r, which became \"-j\" or disappeared in Middle Chinese.\n\nThe Canadian sinologist Edwin Pulleyblank published a reconstruction of the consonants of Old Chinese in two parts in 1962.\nIn addition to new analyses of the traditional evidence, he also made substantial use of transcription evidence.\nThough not a full reconstruction, Pulleyblank's work has been very influential, and many of his proposals are now widely accepted.\n\nPulleyblank adapted Dong Tonghe's proposal of a voiceless counterpart to the initial *m, proposing a full set of aspirated nasals,\nas well as Yakhontov's labio-velar and labio-laryngeal initials.\n\nPulleyblank also accepted Yakhontov's expanded role for the medial *-l-, which he noted was cognate with Tibeto-Burman *-r-.\nTo account for phonetic contacts between Middle Chinese l- and dental initials, he also proposed an aspirated lateral *lh-.\nPulleyblank also distinguished two sets of dental series, one derived from Old Chinese dental stops and the other derived from dental fricatives *δ and *θ, cognate with Tibeto-Burman *l-.\nHe considered recasting his Old Chinese *l and *δ as *r and *l to match the Tibeto-Burman cognates, but rejected the idea to avoid complicating his account of the evolution of Chinese.\nLater he re-visited this decision, recasting *δ, *θ, *l and *lh as *l, *hl, *r and *hr respectively.\n\nPulleyblank also proposed an Old Chinese labial fricative *v for the few words where Karlgren had *b, as well as a voiceless counterpart *f.\nUnlike the above ideas, these have not been adopted by later workers.\n\nPulleyblank also proposed a number of initial consonant clusters, allowing any initial to be preceded by *s- and followed by *-l- (*-r- in later revisions), and grave initials and *n to be followed by *-δ- (*-l- in later revisions).\n\nOn the basis of transcription evidence, Pulleyblank argued that the \"-j-\" medial of Middle Chinese was an innovation not present in Old Chinese.\nHe classified Middle Chinese finals without \"-j-\" as type A and those with the medial as type B, and suggested that they arose from Old Chinese short and long vowels respectively.\n\nAndré-Georges Haudricourt had demonstrated in 1954 that the tones of Vietnamese were derived from final consonants *-ʔ and *-s in an atonal ancestral language.\nHe also suggested that the Chinese departing tone derived from earlier *-s, which acted as a derivational suffix in Old Chinese.\nThen the departing tone syllables that Karlgren had reconstructed with *-d and *-g could instead be reconstructed as *-ts and *-ks, with the stops subsequently being lost before the final *-s, which eventually became a tonal distinction.\nThe absence of a corresponding labial final could be attributed to early assimilation of to .\nPulleyblank strengthened the theory with several examples of syllables in the departing tone being used to transcribe foreign words ending in \"-s\" into Chinese.\nHe further proposed that the Middle Chinese rising tone derived from *-ʔ, implying that Old Chinese lacked tones.\nMei Tsu-lin later supported this theory with evidence from early transcriptions of Sanskrit words, and pointed out that rising tone words end in a glottal stop in some modern Chinese dialects, including Wenzhounese and some Min dialects.\n\nThe Chinese linguist Li Fang-Kuei published an important new reconstruction in 1971, synthesizing proposals of Yakhontov and Pulleyblank with ideas of his own.\nHis system remained the most commonly used until it was replaced by that of Baxter in the 1990s.\nAlthough Li did not produce a complete dictionary of Old Chinese, he presented his methods in sufficient detail that others could apply them to the data.\n\nLi included the labio-velars, labio-laryngeals and voiceless nasals proposed by Pulleyblank.\nAs Middle Chinese \"g-\" occurs only in palatal environments, Li attempted to derive both \"g-\" and \"ɣ-\" from Old Chinese (and similarly ), but had to assume irregular developments in some cases.\nThus he arrived at the following inventory of initial consonants:\nLi also included the *-l- medial proposed by Pulleyblank, in most cases re-interpreting it as *-r-.\nIn addition to the medial *-j- projected back from Middle Chinese, he also postulated the combination *-rj-.\n\nAssuming that rhyming syllables had the same main vowel, Li proposed a system of four vowels , , and .\nHe also included three diphthongs , and to account for syllables that were placed in rhyme groups reconstructed with or but were distinguished in Middle Chinese:\n\nLi followed Karlgren in proposing final consonants *-d and *-g, but was unable to clearly separate them from open syllables, and extended them to all rhyme groups but one, for which he proposed a final *-r.\nHe also proposed that labio-velar consonants could occur as final consonants.\nThus in Li's system every syllable ended in one of the following consonants:\n\nLi marked the rising and departing tones with a suffix *-x or *-h, without specifying how they were realized.\n\nWilliam H. Baxter's monograph \"A Handbook of Old Chinese Phonology\" displaced Li's reconstruction in the 1990s.\nBaxter did not produce a dictionary of reconstructions, but the book contains a large number of examples, including all the words occurring in rhymes in the \"Shijing\", and his methods are described in great detail.\n\nBaxter's treatment of the initials is largely similar to the proposals of Pulleyblank and Li.\nHe reconstructed the liquids *l, *hl, *r and *hr in the same contexts as Pulleyblank.\nUnlike Li, he distinguished Old Chinese *ɦ and *w from *g and *gʷ.\nOther additions were *z, with a limited distribution, and voiceless and voiced palatals *hj and *j, which he described as \"especially tentative, being based largely on scanty graphic evidence\".\nAs in Pulleyblank and Li's systems, the possible medials were *-r-, *-j- and the combination *-rj-.\nHowever while Li had proposed *-rj- as conditioning palatalization of velars, Baxter followed Pulleyblank in proposing it as the source of division III \"chóngniǔ\" finals.\n\nBaxter's major contribution concerned the vowel system and rhyme groups.\nNicholas Bodman had proposed a six-vowel system for a proto-Chinese phase, based on comparison with other Sino-Tibetan languages.\nBaxter argued for a six-vowel system in Old Chinese by re-analysing of the traditional rhyme groups.\nFor example, the traditional 元 rhyme group of the \"Shijing\" corresponds to three different finals in Middle Chinese.\nWhile Li had sought to reconcile these distinct outcomes from rhyming words by reconstructing the finals as *-ian, *-an and *-uan, Baxter argued that in fact they did not rhyme in the \"Shijing\", and could thus be reconstructed with three distinct vowels, *e, *a and *o.\nBaxter proposed that the traditional 31 rhyme groups should be refined to over 50, and performed a statistical analysis of the actual rhymes of the \"Shijing\", which supported the new groups with varying degrees of confidence.\nZhengzhang Shangfang and Sergei Starostin independently developed similar vowel systems.\n\nBaxter's final consonants were those of Middle Chinese, plus *-wk (an allophone of *-kʷ), optionally followed by a post-coda *-ʔ or *-s.\n\nBaxter also speculated on the possibility of a glottal stop occurring after oral stop finals.\nThe evidence is limited, and consists mainly of contacts between rising tone syllables and \"-k\" finals, which could alternatively be explained as phonetic similarity.\n\nZhengzhang Shangfang published his ideas in a series of articles in Chinese provincial journals, which were not widely disseminated. Some of his notes were translated into English by Laurent Sagart in 2000. He published a monograph in 2003.\n\nZhengzhang's reconstruction incorporates a suggestion by Pan Wuyun that the three Middle Chinese laryngeal initials are reflexes of uvular stops in Old Chinese, and thus parallel to the other sets of stops.\nHe argues that Old Chinese lacked affricate initials, and that the Middle Chinese affricates reflect Old Chinese clusters of *s- and other consonants, yielding the following inventory of initial consonants:\nZhengzhang's *w medial could occur only after velar and uvular initials, matching the labio-velar and labio-laryngeal initials of other reconstructions.\nInstead of marking type B syllables with a *-j- medial, he treated type A syllables as having long vowels.\n\nZhengzhang also refined the traditional rhyme classes to obtain a six-vowel system similar to those of Baxter and Starostin, but with *ɯ corresponding to Baxter's *ɨ and Starostin's *ə:\n\nZhengzhang argued that the final stops of Old Chinese were voiced, like those of Old Tibetan.\nHe accepted the consonantal origin of Middle Chinese tones.\n\nJerry Norman concluded his review of with the words:\n\nBaxter has attempted a new approach in collaboration with Laurent Sagart, who had used a variant of Baxter's system in a study of the derivational morphology of Old Chinese.\nThey used additional evidence, including word relationships deduced from these morphology theories, Norman's reconstruction of Proto-Min, divergent Chinese varieties such as Waxiang, early loans to other languages, and character forms in recently unearthed documents.\nThey also sought to apply the hypothetico-deductive method to linguistic reconstruction: instead of insisting on deducing patterns from data, they proposed hypotheses to be tested against data.\n\nThe initial consonants of the revised system largely correspond to those of Baxter (1992) apart from the dropping of the rare initials *z, *j and *hj.\nInstead of marking type B syllables with a *-j- medial, they treated type A syllables as having pharyngealized initials, adapting a proposal of Jerry Norman, and thus doubled the number of initials.\nThey also adopted the proposal of Pan Wuyun to recast the laryngeal initials as uvular stops, though they retained a separate glottal stop.\n\nThey propose the uvular initial as a second source of the Middle Chinese palatal initial in addition to , so that series linking Middle Chinese \"y-\" with velars or laryngeals instead of dentals are reconstructed as uvulars rather than laterals, for example\n\nBaxter and Sagart retained the six-vowel system, though re-casting *ɨ as *ə.\nThe finals consonants were unchanged except for the addition of a final *r in syllables showing connections between final consonants \"-j\" and \"-n\" in Middle Chinese, as suggested by Sergei Starostin.\n\nThe major departure from Baxter's system lay in the structure of roots proposed by Sagart, in which roots could comprise either a monosyllable or a syllable preceded by a preinitial consonant, in one of two patterns:\nSimilar root structures are found in the modern rGyalrong, Khmer and Atayal languages.\nSagart argued that such iambic combinations, like single syllables, were written with single characters and also counted as a single foot in verse.\nThe various initials are reconstructed based on comparisons with proto-Min cognates and early loans to Hmong–Mien languages and Vietnamese:\n\nThe different reconstructions provide different interpretations of the relationships between the categories of Middle Chinese and the main bodies of ancient evidence: the phonetic series (used to reconstruct initials), and the \"Shijing\" rhyme groups (used to reconstruct finals).\n\nKarlgren first stated the principle that words written with the same phonetic component had initials with a common point of articulation in Old Chinese. Moreover, nasal initials seldom interchanged with other consonants.\nThus phonetic series can be placed into classes, depending on the range of Middle Chinese initials found in them, and these classes are presumed to correspond to classes of Old Chinese initials.\nWhere markedly different Middle Chinese initials occur together in a series, investigators have proposed additional consonants, or clusters of consonants, in Old Chinese.\n\nMiddle Chinese is usually reconstructed with two medials:\nKarlgren projected both of these medials back to Old Chinese.\nHowever, since the work of Yakhontov most reconstructions have omitted a *w medial but included labiovelar and labiolaryngeal initials.\nMost reconstructions since Pulleyblank have included a medial *r, but the *j medial has become more controversial.\n\nKarlgren noted that the finals of Middle Chinese can be divided into a number of classes, which combine with different groups of initials.\nThese distributional classes are partially aligned with the placement of finals in different rows of the Song dynasty rhyme tables.\nAs three classes of final occurred in the first, second and fourth rows respectively, he named them finals of divisions I, II and IV.\nThe remaining finals he called \"division-III finals\" because they occurred in the third row of the tables.\nSome of these (the \"pure\" or \"independent\" division-III finals) occurred only in that row, while others (the \"mixed\" finals) could also occur in the second or fourth rows with some initials.\nKarlgren disregarded the \"chongniu\" distinction, but later workers have emphasized its importance.\nLi Rong, in a systematic comparison of the rhyme tables with a recently discovered early edition of the \"Qieyun\", identified seven classes of finals.\nThe table below lists the combinations of initial and final classes that occur in the \"Qieyun\", with the row of the rime tables in which each combination was placed:\n\nOn the basis of these combinations, the initials of Old and Middle Chinese can be divided into two broad types: \"grave\" initials (labials, velars and laryngeals), which combine with all types of finals, and \"acute\" initials (dentals and sibilants), with more restricted distribution.\n\nKarlgren derived the four divisions of Middle Chinese finals from the palatal medial and a range of Old Chinese vowels.\nMore recent reconstructions derive division II from an Old Chinese medial *r (given as *l in the early work of Yakhontov and Pulleyblank).\nThis segment also accounts for phonetic series contacts between stops and \"l-\", retroflex initials and (in some later work) the \"chongniu\" distinction.\nDivision III finals are generally held to represent a palatal element, at least in Middle Chinese.\nDivision I and IV finals have identical distributions in the rhyme dictionaries.\nThese two classes are believed to be primary, while the others were modified by medials.\n\nA fundamental distinction within Middle Chinese is between division-III finals and the rest.\nMost scholars believe that division-III finals were characterized by a palatal medial \"-j-\" in Middle Chinese.\nKarlgren projected this medial back to a medial in Old Chinese (*-i̯- in Karlgren's notation), a position followed by most reconstructions up to the 1990s, including those of Li and Baxter.\n\nOther authors have suggested that the Middle Chinese medial was a secondary development not present in Old Chinese.\nEvidence includes the use of syllables with division-III finals to transcribe foreign words lacking any such medial, the lack of the medial in Tibeto-Burman cognates and modern Min reflexes, and the fact that it is ignored in phonetic series.\nHowever, it is generally agreed that syllables with division-III finals and other syllables, labelled types B and A respectively by Pulleyblank, were distinguished in Old Chinese, though scholars differ on how this distinction was realized.\n\nMany realizations of the distinction have been proposed.\nStarostin and Zhengzhang proposed that type A syllables were distinguished by longer vowels, the reverse of an earlier proposal by Pulleyblank.\nNorman suggested that type B syllables (his class C), which comprised over half of the syllables of the \"Qieyun\", were in fact unmarked in Old Chinese. Instead, he proposed that the remaining syllables were marked by retroflexion (the medial) or pharyngealization, either of which prevented palatalization in Middle Chinese. Baxter and Sagart adopted a variant of this proposal, reconstructing pharyngealized initials in all type A syllables.\nThe different realizations of the type A/B distinction are illustrated by the following reconstructions of Middle Chinese finals from one of the traditional Old Chinese rhyme groups:\n\nMost workers assume that words that rhymed in the \"Shijing\" had the same main vowel and the same final consonant, though they differ on the particular vowels reconstructed.\nThe 31 traditional Old Chinese rhyme groups could thus be accounted for with four vowels, which Li Fang-Kuei reconstructed as , , and .\nHowever some of the rhyme groups reconstructed with or gave rise to more than one Middle Chinese rhyme group.\nTo represent these distinctions, he also included three diphthongs , and .\n\nIn the early 1970s, Nicholas Bodman proposed a six-vowel system for an earlier stage of Chinese.\nApplying Bodman's suggestion to Old Chinese, Zhengzhang Shangfang, Sergei Starostin and William Baxter argued that the 31 traditional rhyme groups should be split into more than 50 groups.\nBaxter supported this thesis with a statistical analysis of the rhymes of the \"Shijing\", though there were too few rhymes with codas , and to produce statistically significant results.\n\nFor the Old Chinese rhyme groups with nasal codas in Middle Chinese (the \"yáng\" 陽 groups), which are assumed to reflect nasal codas in Old Chinese, six-vowel systems produce a more balanced distribution, with five or six rhymes for each coda, and at most four different finals for in each rhyme:\nIn syllables with acute initials, the two types of type B final are not distinguished, and the presence or absence of the former *-r- medial is reflected by the initial.\n\nFinals with stop codas (traditionally classified as the entering tone) generally parallel those with nasal codas, with the addition of three groups with Middle Chinese reflexes in \"-k\".\nRecent reconstructions assign these an Old Chinese coda *-wk corresponding to the labiovelar initial *kʷ-.\n\nSome words in the \"Shijing\" 質 \"zhì\" and 物 \"wù\" rhyme groups have Middle Chinese reflexes in the departing tone, but otherwise parallel to those with dental finals.\nLi followed Karlgren in reconstructing such words with an Old Chinese coda *-d.\nThe suffix *-h in Li's notation is intended to represent the Old Chinese precursor to the Middle Chinese departing tone, without specifying how it was realized.\nThe \"Shijing\" 祭 \"jì\" group has Middle Chinese reflexes in the departing tone only, including some finals that occur only in the departing tone (marked below with the suffix -H).\nAs the reflexes of this group parallel the \"Shijing\" 月 \"yuè\" group, Li reconstructed these also as *-dh.\nFollowing a suggestion of André-Georges Haudricourt, most recent reconstructions derive the Middle Chinese departing tone from an Old Chinese suffix *-s.\nThe coda *-ts is believed to have reduced to -j in Middle Chinese.\n\nFinals with vocalic codas generally parallel those with dental or velar codas.\n\nBecause the Middle Chinese reflexes of the \"gē\" 歌 rhyme group do not have a \"-j\" coda, Li reconstructed it with an Old Chinese coda *-r.\nHowever, many words in this group do have a \"-j\" coda in the colloquial layers of Min and Hakka varieties, in early loans into neighbouring languages, and in cognates in other Sino-Tibetan languages.\n\nWorks cited\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14454532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14454532", "title": "Revue de métaphysique et de morale", "text": "Revue de métaphysique et de morale\n\nThe Revue de métaphysique et de morale is a French philosophy journal co-founded in 1893 by Léon Brunschvicg, Xavier Léon and Élie Halévy. The journal initially appeared six times a year, but since 1920 has been published quarterly. It was the leading French-language journal for philosophical debates at the 20th century, hosting articles by Victor Delbos, Bergson, etc., and still exists today. \n\nXavier Léon served as the first editor of the journal until his death in 1935, when he was succeeded by Dominique Parodi. On Parodi's death in 1955, the journal was headed by Jean Wahl.\n\nIt published in 1906 Bertrand Russell's article on the Berry paradox, as well as articles by Louis Bachelier, the logicist Jean Nicod, the mathematician Henri Poincaré, Félix Ravaisson, Célestin Bouglé, Henri Delacroix (concerning William James), Louis Couturat, Sully Prudhomme, Henri Maldiney, Francine Bloch, Frédéric Rauh, Jean Cavaillès, Julien Benda, Georges Poyer, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Georg Simmel, etc. More recently: Barbara Cassin, etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227282", "title": "Romer", "text": "Romer\n\nA Reference Card or \"Romer\" is a device for increasing the accuracy when reading a grid reference from a map. Made from transparent plastic, paper or other materials, they are also found on most baseplate compasses. Essentially, it is a specially marked-out ruler which matches the scale of the map in use. The scales are laid out in reverse, such that by lining up the numbers given in the grid reference with the gridlines for the square in question, the corner of the Romer lies on the location whose grid reference you wish to read. Some transparent versions have a small hole at the origin when this is not at the corner of the Reference Card. This allows access to the map such that the location could be marked with a pencil if using the Reference Card in reverse having been given a grid reference to start with. They are used in many types of land navigation and map reading, to give a more accurate grid reference than one just estimated by eye from the grid lines on the map.\n\nWhile Romers of various designs are available commercially, they can easily be made yourself; by hand, by using a computer or by finding a website with instructions.\n\nInvented in 1915 by Temporary Lieutenant (later Captain) Carrol Romer, MC, RE (1883-1951), then “Maps”, First Army: i.e. OC Maps and Printing Section, such Reference Cards were widely used by the British Army in WW1 and after, being described in a Maps GHQ booklet \"Maps and Artillery Boards\" in December 1916: the name \"Romer\" seems only to have been used officially from 1929.\nA version was later developed for car navigational rallies by car rally partners Eric Gardner and John Cridford during the early 1950s, the 'Garford Romer' was available for both Imperial and Metric OS maps and is still sold today. Although a registered design when it was first made and sold it was and still is much copied.\n\nThe illustration below shows how the Romer is used. Here, we are plotting the reference 696018. The marks corresponding to (6, 8) on the Romer are lined up along the gridlines (69, 01). The hole near the corner yields the exact point, the church at Little Plumpton.\n"}
{"id": "7339798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7339798", "title": "Schizoglossia", "text": "Schizoglossia\n\nSchizoglossia is a linguistic term used to refer linguistic insecurity or language complex about one's mother language. The term was coined by Einar Haugen in 1962. \n\nLinguistic insecurity is common in societies where there are two language varieties and one is seen as incorrect and the other as proper. For example: Standard French versus Haitian French (often seen as a \"creole\") or Standard American English versus Afro-American English. In these cases, one variety is seen as \"bad\" and its speaker might want to correct some usages for some more prestigious alternatives. Those negative attitudes usually make the speakers ashamed of language usage that doesn't convey prestige, either openly or indirectly by using linguistic characteristics, such as pronunciation, of the other language.\n\n"}
{"id": "52115370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52115370", "title": "Social Emergency Medicine", "text": "Social Emergency Medicine\n\nSocial Emergency Medicine is an emerging branch of Emergency Medicine that explores the interplay of social forces and the emergency care system, and how these act together to affect the health of individuals and their communities. Organized in 2009, the field has gained wider acceptance within the larger specialty of emergency medicine. Initiatives in social emergency medicine include research, direct service and advocacy in hunger, unstable housing, community violence and other social determinants of health.\n\nThe term “Social Emergency Medicine” traces its origins to 2009, when emergency physicians at Highland Hospital in Oakland, California, formed the Andrew Levitt Center for Social Emergency Medicine, an independent non-profit research and advocacy institute. As of 2016, fellowships in Social Emergency Medicine can be found also at The University of California, Los Angeles, Stanford University, and St Barnabas Hospital (Bronx). In 2017 the American College of Emergency Physicians approved the creation of a Social Emergency Medicine Section, and in the same year the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine authorized the Social Emergency Medicine and Population Health Interest Group.\n"}
{"id": "5264286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5264286", "title": "The Last Heathen", "text": "The Last Heathen\n\nThe Last Heathen: Encounters with Ghosts and Ancestors in Melanesia is a book by Charles Montgomery, published in Canada by Douglas and McIntyre in 2004. In 2006 it was published in the United States by HarperCollins as \"The Shark God\".\n\n\"The Last Heathen\" is the autobiographical account of the author in his journey to Melanesia, following in the footsteps of his great-grandfather, Henry Montgomery, Bishop of Tasmania, and to study the effect of his great-grandfather's religion on the people. Montgomery traveled to Melanesia expecting to find a volatile mixture of the tribal, pagan religion and Christianity. He found a comfortable hybrid instead, the two religions living in harmony. The book details his journey as well as his discoveries, from an atheistic point of view.\n\nThe book won the Charles Taylor Prize for Literary Non-fiction in 2005. The book has also won the Hubert Evans Non-Fiction Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "11735883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11735883", "title": "The Scarlet Plague", "text": "The Scarlet Plague\n\nThe Scarlet Plague is a post-apocalyptic fiction novel written by Jack London and originally published in \"London Magazine\" in 1912.\n\nThe story takes place in 2073, sixty years after an uncontrollable epidemic, the Red Death, has depopulated the planet. James Smith is one of the survivors of the era before the scarlet plague hit and is still left alive in the San Francisco area, and he travels with his grandsons Edwin, Hoo-Hoo, and Hare-Lip. His grandsons are young and live as primeval hunter-gatherers in a heavily depopulated world. Their intellect is limited, as are their language abilities. Edwin asks Smith, whom they call \"Granser\", to tell them of the disease alternately referred to as scarlet plague, scarlet death, or red death.\n\nSmith recounts the story of his life before the plague, when he was an English professor. In 2013, the year after \"Morgan the Fifth was appointed President of the United States by the Board of Magnates\", the disease came about and spread rapidly. Sufferers would turn scarlet, particularly on the face, and become numb in their lower extremities. Victims usually died within 30 minutes of first seeing symptoms. Despite the public's trust in doctors and scientists, no cure is found, and those who attempted to do so were also killed by the disease. The grandsons question Smith's belief in \"germs\" causing the illness because they cannot be seen. \n\nSmith witnesses his first victim of the scarlet plague while teaching when a young woman's face turns scarlet. She dies quickly, and a panic soon overtakes the campus. He returns home but his family refuses to join him because they fear he is infected. Soon, an epidemic overtakes the area and residents begin rioting and killing one another. Smith meets with colleagues at his college's chemistry building, where they hope to wait out the problem. They soon realize they must move elsewhere for safety and begin trekking northward.\n\nEventually, Smith's entire party dies out and he is left as the sole survivor. He lives for three years on his own with the company of a pony and two dogs. Eventually, his need for social interaction compels him back to the San Francisco area in search of other people. He eventually discovers a sort of new society has been created with a few survivors, who have broken into tribes.\n\nSmith worries that he is the last to remember the times before the plague. He reminisces about the quality of food, social classes, his job, and technology. As he realizes his time grows short, he tries to impart the value of knowledge and wisdom to his grandsons. His efforts are in vain, however, as the children ridicule his recollections of the past, which sound totally unbelievable to them.\n\n\"The Scarlet Plague\" was written in 1910 but not serialized until the May–June 1912 issue of \"London Magazine\". It was published as a book in 1915 by Macmillan.\n\nLondon published \"The Scarlet Plague\" in book form at a point in his career that biographers and critics have called a \"professional decline\", from September 1912 to May 1916. In this period, he stopped writing short works and shifted to longer works including \"The Abysmal Brute\" (1913), \"John Barleycorn\" (1913), \"The Mutiny of the Elsinore\" (1914), \"The Star Rover\" (1915), among others.\n\n\"The Scarlet Plague\" was later reprinted in the February 1949 issue of \"Famous Fantastic Mysteries\".\n\nJack London was inspired in part by Edgar Allan Poe's 1842 short story \"The Masque of the Red Death\". Both Poe's story and London's fall into a genre of apocalyptic fiction featuring a universal plague that nearly wipes out humanity. Other examples include Mary Shelley's \"The Last Man\" (1826), George R. Stewart's \"Earth Abides\" (1949), Michael Crichton's \"The Andromeda Strain\" (1969) and Stephen King's \"The Stand\" (1978).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22618868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22618868", "title": "Velleity", "text": "Velleity\n\nVelleity is the lowest degree of volition, a slight wish or tendency.\n\nThe marketer Matt Bailey described it as \"a desire to see something done, but not enough desire to make it happen\".\n\nMatt Bailey expressed an attempt \"to bring it back, as it has more relevance now than ever.\" He writes that:\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche describes the velleity of an artist as a \"desire to \"be\" 'what he is able to represent, conceive, and express'...\" Nietzsche championed the will to power, which can be encapsulated as starting with velleity, in his free-will theorem.\n\nKeith David Wyma refers frequently to the \"concept of velleity\", citing Thomas Aquinas as a pioneer of introducing the idea into philosophy.\n\nPsychologist Avi Sion writes, \"\"Many psychological concepts may only be defined and explained with reference to velleity\".\" (\"Emphasis in original\".) An example he cites is that \"an ordinarily desirable object can only properly be called 'interesting' or 'tempting' to that agent at that time, if he manifests some velleity...\"\nHe distinguishes between the two types of velleity - \"\"to do\" something and one \"not to do\" something...\" Furthermore, he asserts, \"The concept of velleity is also important because it enables us to understand the co-existence of conflicting values.\" A person could thus have \"double velleity\" or \"a mix of velleity for something and a volition for its opposite: the latter dominates, of course, but that does not erase the fact of velleity.\"\n\nKathy Kolbe also lists velleity as a \"key concept of conation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27964210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27964210", "title": "Vernon Systems", "text": "Vernon Systems\n\nVernon Systems Ltd (VSL) is a company that produces collections management software for museums, galleries, and other cultural heritage institutions. The company was established in 1985. It is based in Auckland, New Zealand, but sells its software internationally.\n\nVernon Systems has two major products, widely used by the museum community: \"Vernon CMS\" is a modular desktop package designed to manage all types of collections; \"eHive\" is a simple to use web-based cataloguing and public access system which includes integration with the WordPress content management system. eHive is free for low levels of use, with graded charges depending on usage. eHive is the foundation of the NZMuseums website, a public website presenting New Zealand's museums and galleries and their collections online, presented at the \"Museums and the Web\" conference in 2009.\n\nVSL has partnered with museum organizations including Collections Trust in the United Kingdom. It also participates in major international museum events such as the Museums and the Web conference and in the United Kingdom at the \"Museums + Heritage Show\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26989294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26989294", "title": "Wall Street reform", "text": "Wall Street reform\n\nWall Street Reform or Financial Reform refers to reform of the financial industry and the regulation of the financial industry in the United States. Wall Street is the home of the country's two largest stock exchanges, and \"Wall Street\" is a metonym for the American financial sector. Major Wall Street reform bills include the Federal Reserve Act of 1913, the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, the Truth in Lending Act of 1968, the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act of 1999, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The most recent Wall Street reform bill, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, was signed by President of the United States Barack Obama on July 22, 2010, following a global financial crisis.\n\nThe Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 placed a \"wall of separation\" between banks and brokerages, which was largely repealed by the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999. The bill was enacted during the Great Depression, which began with the Wall Street Crash of 1929. The Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act of 1999 repealed the \"wall of separation,\" allowing companies to simultaneously act as commercial banks, investment banks, and insurance companies. Though some commentators regard the restoration of the 1933 bill as crucial, even calling it \"the most vital element of Wall Street reform\", House Democratic leaders refused to allow an amendment by Rep. Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) to restore Glass-Steagall as part of the 2009 Frank bill. Hinchey introduced his proposal as a separate bill, the Glass-Steagall Restoration Act of 2009. Nonetheless, the \"Volcker rule\" proposed by the Obama administration has been described as a \"new Glass-Steagall Act for the 21st century\", as it establishes stringent rules against banks using their own money to make risky investments.\n\nThe Sarbanes-Oxley Act, by Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Rep. Michael G. Oxley (R-OH), was signed into law by George W. Bush in July 2002. The bill was enacted as a reaction to a number of major corporate and accounting scandals including those affecting Enron and WorldCom.\n\nAs of May 2010, both the House and Senate bills had been passed, but the differences between the bills were to be worked out in United States congressional conference committee. Differences which must be resolved include: whether the new consumer protection agency would be independent (Senate) or part of the Federal Reserve; whether to require banks to issue credit derivatives in separately capitalized affiliates (Senate); how exactly the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) will wind down or bail out large institutions which fail; the circumstances under which large institutions could be broken up; a 15 to 1 leverage limit in the House bill; the terms of a Fed audit (continuous as in the House bill or one-time as in the Senate bill); both bills include the Volcker rule which prohibits proprietary trading by bank holding companies, but both have a caveat which allow for regulators to overrule the rule; both bills propose to regulate credit rating agencies, but the Senate's bill is much stronger.\n\nH.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009 by Rep. Barney Frank (D-MA), passed by the House of Representatives in December 2009, and awaiting action by the Senate as of April 2010.\n\nS.3217 was introduced by Senate Banking Committee chairman Chris Dodd (D-CT) on April 15, 2010. Dodd's bill included a $50 billion liquidation fund which drew criticism as a continuing bailout, which he was pressured to remove by Republicans and the Obama administration. The Senate bill passed on May 20, 2010.\n\nThe \"Volcker Rule\" was proposed by President Barack Obama based on advice by Paul Volcker, and a draft of the proposed legislation was prepared by the U.S. Treasury Department. It limited any one bank from holding more than 10% of FDIC-insured deposits, and prohibited any bank with a division holding such deposits from using its own capital to make speculative investments. The Volcker rule faced heavy resistance in the Senate and was introduced as part of the subsequent Dodd bill only in a limited form.\n\nChaired by the United States Secretary of the Treasury, a new multi-authority oversight body called the Financial Stability Oversight Council of regulators will be established. The council will consist of nine members including regulators from the Federal Reserve System, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal Housing Finance Agency, and many other agencies. The main purpose of the council is to identify risk in the Financial system. Also, the council will look at the interconnectivity of the highly leveraged financial firms and can ask companies to divest holdings if their structure poses a great threat to the Financial system. The council will have a solid control on the operations of the leveraged firms and also help in increasing the transparency.\n\nIn 2016, 170 Economists, Financial Experts, and Academics Back Bernie Sanders' Wall Street Reform Plan. In the letter supporting Bernie Sander's Financial Reform Plan \n\n\"\"In our view, Sen. Bernie Sanders' plan for comprehensive financial reform is critical for avoiding another \"too-big-to-fail\" financial crisis. The Senator is correct that the biggest banks must be broken up and that a new 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act, separating investment from commercial banking, must be enacted.\nWall Street's largest banks are now far bigger than they were before the crisis, and they still have every incentive to take excessive risks. No major Wall Street executive has been indicted for the fraudulent behavior that led up to the 2008 crash, and fines imposed on the banks have been only a fraction of the banks' potential gains. In addition, the banks and their lobbyists have succeeded in watering down the Dodd-Frank reform legislation, and the financial institutions that pose the greatest risk to our economy have still not devised sufficient \"living wills\" for winding down their operations in the event of another crisis.\nSecretary Hillary Clinton's more modest proposals do not go far enough. They call for a bit more oversight and a few new charges on shadow banking activity, but they leave intact the titanic financial conglomerates that practice most shadow banking. As a result, her plan does not adequately reduce the serious risks our financial system poses to the American economy and to individual Americans. Given the size and political power of Wall Street, her proposals would only invite more dilution and finagle. The only way to contain Wall Street's excesses is with reforms sufficiently bold and public they can't be watered down. That's why we support Senator Sanders' plans for busting up the biggest banks and resurrecting a modernized version of Glass Steagall.\"\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22742", "title": "Ötzi", "text": "Ötzi\n\nÖtzi (), also called the Iceman, the Similaun Man (), the Man from Hauslabjoch, the Tyrolean Iceman, and the Hauslabjoch mummy, is the well-preserved natural mummy of a man who lived between 3400 and 3100 BCE. The mummy was found in September 1991 in the Ötztal Alps, hence the nickname \"Ötzi\", near Similaun mountain and Hauslabjoch on the border between Austria and Italy. He is Europe's oldest known natural human mummy, and has offered an unprecedented view of Chalcolithic (Copper Age) Europeans. His body and belongings are displayed in the South Tyrol Museum of Archaeology in Bolzano, South Tyrol, Italy.\n\nÖtzi was found on 19 September 1991 by two German tourists, at an elevation of on the east ridge of the Fineilspitze in the Ötztal Alps on the Austrian–Italian border. The tourists, Helmut and Erika Simon, were walking off the path between the mountain passes Hauslabjoch and Tisenjoch. They believed that the body was of a recently deceased mountaineer. The next day, a mountain gendarme and the keeper of the nearby Similaunhütte first attempted to remove the body, which was frozen in ice below the torso, using a pneumatic drill and ice-axes, but had to give up due to bad weather. The next day, eight groups visited the site, among whom happened to be the famous mountaineers Hans Kammerlander and Reinhold Messner. The body was semi-officially extracted on 22 September and officially salvaged the following day. It was transported to the office of the medical examiner in Innsbruck, together with other objects found. On 24 September the find was examined there by archaeologist Konrad Spindler of the University of Innsbruck. He dated the find to be \"about four thousand years old\", based on the typology of an axe among the retrieved objects.\n\nAt the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye of 1919, the border between North and South Tyrol was defined as the watershed of the rivers Inn and Etsch. However, near Tisenjoch the (now withdrawn) glacier complicated establishing the watershed at the time and the border was established too far north. Therefore, although Ötzi's find site drains to the Austrian side, surveys in October 1991 showed that the body had been located inside Italian territory as delineated in 1919. The province of South Tyrol therefore claimed property rights, but agreed to let Innsbruck University finish its scientific examinations. Since 1998, it has been on display at the South Tyrol Museum of Archaeology in Bolzano, the capital of South Tyrol.\n\nThe corpse has been extensively examined, measured, X-rayed, and dated. Tissues and intestinal contents have been examined microscopically, as have the items found with the body. In August 2004, frozen bodies of three Austro-Hungarian soldiers killed during the Battle of San Matteo (1918) were found on the mountain Punta San Matteo in Trentino. One body was sent to a museum in the hope that research on how the environment affected its preservation would help unravel Ötzi's past.\n\nBy current estimates (2016), at the time of his death Ötzi was five-foot-three-inches tall, weighed about a hundred and ten pounds, and was about 45 years of age. When his body was found, it weighed . Because the body was covered in ice shortly after his death, it had only partially deteriorated. Initial reports claimed that his penis and most of his scrotum were missing, but this was later shown to be unfounded. Analysis of pollen, dust grains and the isotopic composition of his tooth enamel indicates that he spent his childhood near the present village of Feldthurns, north of Bolzano, but later went to live in valleys about 50 kilometres farther north.\nIn 2009, a CAT scan revealed that the stomach had shifted upward to where his lower lung area would normally be. Analysis of the contents revealed the partly digested remains of ibex meat, confirmed by DNA analysis, suggesting he had a meal less than two hours before his death. Wheat grains were also found. It is believed that Ötzi most likely had a few slices of a dried, fatty meat, probably bacon which came from a wild goat in South Tyrol, Italy. Analysis of Ötzi's intestinal contents showed two meals (the last one consumed about eight hours before his death), one of chamois meat, the other of red deer and herb bread; both were eaten with roots and fruits. The grain also eaten with both meals was a highly processed einkorn wheat bran, quite possibly eaten in the form of bread. In the proximity of the body, and thus possibly originating from the Iceman's provisions, chaff and grains of einkorn and barley, and seeds of flax and poppy were discovered, as well as kernels of sloes (small plumlike fruits of the blackthorn tree) and various seeds of berries growing in the wild. Hair analysis was used to examine his diet from several months before.\n\nPollen in the first meal showed that it had been consumed in a mid-altitude conifer forest, and other pollens indicated the presence of wheat and legumes, which may have been domesticated crops. Pollen grains of hop-hornbeam were also discovered. The pollen was very well preserved, with the cells inside remaining intact, indicating that it had been fresh (estimated about two hours old) at the time of Ötzi's death, which places the event in the spring, or early summer. Einkorn wheat is harvested in the late summer, and sloes in the autumn; these must have been stored from the previous year.\n\nHigh levels of both copper particles and arsenic were found in Ötzi's hair. This, along with Ötzi's copper axe blade, which is 99.7% pure copper, has led scientists to speculate that Ötzi was involved in copper smelting.\n\nBy examining the proportions of Ötzi's tibia, femur and pelvis, Christopher Ruff has determined that Ötzi's lifestyle included long walks over hilly terrain. This degree of mobility is not characteristic of other Copper Age Europeans. Ruff proposes that this may indicate that Ötzi was a high-altitude shepherd.\n\nUsing modern 3-D technology, a facial reconstruction has been created for the South Tyrol Museum of Archaeology in Bolzano, Italy. It shows Ötzi looking old for his 45 years, with deep-set brown eyes, a beard, a furrowed face, and sunken cheeks. He is depicted looking tired and ungroomed.\n\nÖtzi apparently had whipworm (\"Trichuris trichiura\"), an intestinal parasite. During CT scans, it was observed that three or four of his right ribs had been cracked when he had been lying face down after death, or where the ice had crushed his body. One of his fingernails (of the two found) shows three Beau's lines indicating he was sick three times in the six months before he died. The last incident, two months before he died, lasted about two weeks. Also, it was found that his epidermis, the outer skin layer, was missing, a natural process from his mummification in ice. Ötzi's teeth showed considerable internal deterioration from cavities. These oral pathologies may have been brought about by his grain-heavy, high carbohydrate diet. DNA analysis in February 2012 revealed that Ötzi was lactose intolerant, supporting the theory that lactose intolerance was still common at that time, despite the increasing spread of agriculture and dairying.\n\nÖtzi had a total of 61 tattoos (or Soot tattoos), consisting of 19 groups of black lines ranging from 1 to 3 mm in thickness and 7 to 40 mm long. These include groups of parallel lines running along the longitudinal axis of his body and to both sides of the lumbar spine, as well as a cruciform mark behind the right knee and on the right ankle, and parallel lines around the left wrist. The greatest concentration of markings is found on his legs, which together exhibit 12 groups of lines. A microscopic examination of samples collected from these tattoos revealed that they were created from pigment manufactured out of fireplace ash or soot.\n\nRadiological examination of Ötzi's bones showed \"age-conditioned or strain-induced degeneration\" corresponding to many tattooed areas, including osteochondrosis and slight spondylosis in the lumbar spine and wear-and-tear degeneration in the knee and especially in the ankle joints. It has been speculated that these tattoos may have been related to pain relief treatments similar to acupressure or acupuncture. If so, this is at least 2,000 years before their previously known earliest use in China (c. 1000 BCE). Recent research into archaeological evidence for ancient tattooing has confirmed that Ötzi is the oldest tattooed human mummy yet discovered.\n\nÖtzi wore a cloak made of woven grass and a coat, a belt, a pair of leggings, a loincloth and shoes, all made of leather of different skins. He also wore a bearskin cap with a leather chin strap. The shoes were waterproof and wide, seemingly designed for walking across the snow; they were constructed using bearskin for the soles, deer hide for the top panels, and a netting made of tree bark. Soft grass went around the foot and in the shoe and functioned like modern socks. The coat, belt, leggings and loincloth were constructed of vertical strips of leather sewn together with sinew. His belt had a pouch sewn to it that contained a cache of useful items: a scraper, drill, flint flake, bone awl and a dried fungus.\n\nThe shoes have since been reproduced by a Czech academic, who said that \"because the shoes are actually quite complex, I'm convinced that even 5,300 years ago, people had the equivalent of a cobbler who made shoes for other people\". The reproductions were found to constitute such excellent footwear that it was reported that a Czech company offered to purchase the rights to sell them. However, a more recent hypothesis by British archaeologist Jacqui Wood says that Ötzi's \"shoes\" were actually the upper part of snowshoes. According to this theory, the item currently interpreted as part of a \"backpack\" is actually the wood frame and netting of one snowshoe and animal hide to cover the face.\n\nThe leather loincloth and hide coat were made from sheepskin. Genetic analysis showed that the sheep species was nearer to modern domestic European sheep than to wild sheep; the items were made from the skins of at least four animals. Part of the coat was made from domesticated goat belonging to a mitochondrial haplogroup (a common female ancestor) that inhabits central Europe today. The coat was made from several animals from two different species and was stitched together with hides available at the time. The leggings were made from domesticated goat leather. A similar set of 6,500-year-old leggings discovered in Switzerland were made from goat leather which may indicate the goat leather was specifically chosen.\n\nShoelaces were made from the European genetic population of cattle. The quiver was made from wild roe deer, the fur hat was made from a genetic lineage of brown bear which lives in the region today. Writing in the journal \"Scientific Reports\", researchers from Ireland and Italy reported their analysis of mitochondrial DNA, that was extracted from nine fragments from six of his garments, including his loin cloth and fur cap.\n\nOther items found with the Iceman were a copper axe with a yew handle, a chert-bladed knife with an ash handle and a quiver of 14 arrows with viburnum and dogwood shafts. Two of the arrows, which were broken, were tipped with flint and had fletching (stabilizing fins), while the other 12 were unfinished and untipped. The arrows were found in a quiver with what is presumed to be a bow string, an unidentified tool, and an antler tool which might have been used for sharpening arrow points. There was also an unfinished yew longbow that was long.\n\nIn addition, among Ötzi's possessions were berries, two birch bark baskets, and two species of polypore mushrooms with leather strings through them. One of these, the birch fungus, is known to have anthelmintic properties, and was probably used for medicinal purposes. The other was a type of tinder fungus, included with part of what appeared to be a complex firelighting kit. The kit featured pieces of over a dozen different plants, in addition to flint and pyrite for creating sparks.\n\nÖtzi's copper axe was of particular interest. His axe's haft is long and made from carefully worked yew with a right-angled crook at the shoulder, leading to the blade. The long axe head is made of almost pure copper, produced by a combination of casting, cold forging, polishing, and sharpening. Despite the fact that copper ore sources in the Alpines are known to have been exploited at the time, a study indicated that the copper in the axe came from southern Tuscany. It was let into the forked end of the crook and fixed there using birch-tar and tight leather lashing. The blade part of the head extends out of the lashing and shows clear signs of having been used to chop and cut. At the time, such an axe would have been a valuable possession, important both as a tool and as a status symbol for the bearer.\n\nÖtzi's full genome has been sequenced; the report on this was published on 28 February 2012. The Y-DNA of Ötzi belongs to a subclade of G defined by the SNPs M201, P287, P15, L223 and L91 (G-L91, ISOGG G2a2b, former \"G2a4\"). He was not typed for any of the subclades downstreaming from G-L91. G-L91 is now mostly found in South Corsica.\n\nAnalysis of his mitochondrial DNA showed that Ötzi belongs to the K1 subclade, but cannot be categorized into any of the three modern branches of that subclade (K1a, K1b or K1c). The new subclade has provisionally been named \"K1ö\" for \"Ötzi\". Multiplex assay study was able to confirm that the Iceman's mtDNA belongs to a previously unknown European mtDNA clade with a very limited distribution among modern data sets.\n\nBy autosomal DNA, Ötzi is most closely related to southern Europeans, especially to geographically isolated populations like Corsicans and Sardinians.\n\nDNA analysis also showed him at high risk of atherosclerosis and lactose intolerance, with the presence of the DNA sequence of \"Borrelia burgdorferi\", possibly making him the earliest known human with Lyme disease. A later analysis suggested the sequence may have been a different \"Borrelia\" species.\n\nA 2012 paper by paleoanthropologist John Hawks suggests that Ötzi had a higher degree of Neanderthal ancestry than modern Europeans.\n\nIn October 2013, it was reported that 19 modern Tyrolean men were descendants of Ötzi, or of a close relative of Ötzi. Scientists from the Institute of Legal Medicine at Innsbruck Medical University had analysed the DNA of over 3,700 Tyrolean male blood donors and found 19 who shared a particular genetic mutation with the 5,300-year-old man.\n\nIn May 2012, scientists announced the discovery that Ötzi still had intact blood cells. These are the oldest complete human blood cells ever identified. In most bodies this old, the blood cells are either shrunken or mere remnants, but Ötzi's have the same dimensions as living red blood cells and resembled a modern-day sample.\n\nIn 2016, researchers reported on a study from the extraction of twelve samples from the gastrointestinal tract of Ötzi to analyze the origins of the \"Helicobacter pylori\" in his gut. The \"H. pylori\" strain found in his gastrointestinal tract was, surprisingly, the hpAsia2 strain, a strain today found primarily in South Asian and Central Asian populations, with extremely rare occurrences in modern European populations. The strain found in Ötzi's gut is most similar to three modern individuals from Northern India; the strain itself is, of course, older than the modern Northern Indian strain.\n\nThe cause of death remained uncertain until 10 years after the discovery of the body. It was initially believed that Ötzi died from exposure during a winter storm. Later it was speculated that Ötzi might have been a victim of a ritual sacrifice, perhaps for being a chieftain. This explanation was inspired by theories previously advanced for the first millennium BCE bodies recovered from peat bogs such as the Tollund Man and the Lindow Man.\n\nIn 2001, X-rays and a CT scan revealed that Ötzi had an arrowhead lodged in his left shoulder when he died, and a matching small tear on his coat. The discovery of the arrowhead prompted researchers to theorize Ötzi died of blood loss from the wound, which would probably have been fatal even if modern medical techniques had been available. Further research found that the arrow's shaft had been removed before death, and close examination of the body found bruises and cuts to the hands, wrists and chest and cerebral trauma indicative of a blow to the head. One of the cuts was to the base of his thumb that reached down to the bone but had no time to heal before his death. Currently, it is believed that Ötzi bled to death after the arrow shattered the scapula and damaged nerves and blood vessels before lodging near the lung.\n\nRecent DNA analyses claim they revealed traces of blood from at least four other people on his gear: one from his knife, two from the same arrowhead, and a fourth from his coat. Interpretations of these findings were that Ötzi killed two people with the same arrow, and was able to retrieve it on both occasions, and the blood on his coat was from a wounded comrade he may have carried over his back. Ötzi's posture in death (frozen body, face down, left arm bent across the chest) could support a theory that before death occurred and rigor mortis set in, the Iceman was turned onto his stomach in the effort to remove the arrow shaft.\n\nIn 2010, it was proposed that Ötzi died at a much lower altitude and was buried higher in the mountains, as posited by archaeologist Alessandro Vanzetti of the Sapienza University of Rome and his colleagues. According to their study of the items found near Ötzi and their locations, it is possible that the iceman may have been placed above what has been interpreted as a stone burial mound but was subsequently moved with each thaw cycle that created a flowing watery mix driven by gravity before being re-frozen. While archaeobotanist Klaus Oeggl of the University of Innsbruck agrees that the natural process described probably caused the body to move from the ridge that includes the stone formation, he pointed out that the paper provided no compelling evidence to demonstrate that the scattered stones constituted a burial platform. Moreover, biological anthropologist Albert Zink argues that the iceman's bones display no dislocations that would have resulted from a downhill slide and that the intact blood clots in his arrow wound would show damage if the body had been moved up the mountain. In either case, the burial theory does not contradict the possibility of a violent cause of death.\n\nItalian law entitled the Simons to a finders' fee from the South Tyrolean provincial government of 25% of the value of Ötzi. In 1994 the authorities offered a \"symbolic\" reward of 10 million lire (€5,200), which the Simons turned down. In 2003, the Simons filed a lawsuit which asked a court in Bolzano to recognize their role in Ötzi's discovery and declare them his \"official discoverers\". The court decided in the Simons' favor in November 2003, and at the end of December that year the Simons announced that they were seeking US$300,000 as their fee. The provincial government decided to appeal.\n\nIn addition, two people came forward to claim that they were part of the same mountaineering party that came across Ötzi and discovered the body first:\n\n\nIn 2005 the rival claims were heard by a Bolzano court. The legal case angered Mrs. Simon, who alleged that neither woman was present on the mountain that day. In 2005, Mrs. Simon's lawyer said: \"Mrs. Simon is very upset by all this and by the fact that these two new claimants have decided to appear 14 years after Ötzi was found.\" In 2008, however, Jarc stated for a Slovene newspaper that she wrote twice to the Bolzano court in regard to her claim but received no reply whatsoever.\n\nIn 2004, Helmut Simon died. Two years later, in June 2006, an appeals court affirmed that the Simons had indeed discovered the Iceman and were therefore entitled to a finder's fee. It also ruled that the provincial government had to pay the Simons' legal costs. After this ruling, Mrs. Erika Simon reduced her claim to €150,000. The provincial government's response was that the expenses it had incurred to establish a museum and the costs of preserving the Iceman should be considered in determining the finder's fee. It insisted it would pay no more than €50,000. In September 2006, the authorities appealed the case to Italy's highest court, the Court of Cassation.\n\nOn 29 September 2008 it was announced that the provincial government and Mrs. Simon had reached a settlement of the dispute, under which she would receive €150,000 in recognition of Ötzi's discovery by her and her late husband and the tourist income that it attracts.\n\nInfluenced by the \"Curse of the pharaohs\" and the media theme of cursed mummies, claims have been made that Ötzi is cursed. The allegation revolves around the deaths of several people connected to the discovery, recovery and subsequent examination of Ötzi. It is alleged that they have died under mysterious circumstances. These persons include co-discoverer Helmut Simon and Konrad Spindler, the first examiner of the mummy in Austria in 1991. To date, the deaths of seven people, of which four were accidental, have been attributed to the alleged curse. In reality hundreds of people were involved in the recovery of Ötzi and are still involved in studying the body and the artifacts found with it. The fact that a small percentage of them have died over the years has not been shown to be statistically significant.\n\n\n\n\n"}
