{"id": "49915934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49915934", "title": "ABC of Chairmanship", "text": "ABC of Chairmanship\n\nA.B.C. of Chairmanship by Walter Citrine is considered by many in the Labour and Union movements of the UK to be the definitive book on how meetings should be run and how committees should be managed. It originated as notes for Electrical Trades Union (ETU) activists in the Merseyside area of the UK– they had Liverpool, Birkenhead and Bootle branches - in the 1910s by Citrine who was then Chairman of their District Committee.\n\nUnion meetings were then important places where the terms of employment in the trade were keenly discussed by union activists, news of employment opportunities were shared and some general social life ensued in the pub where they usually met. It was to guide these activist electricians – a very intelligent but sometimes fractious community who tended to be critical of their ETU headquarters officials in Manchester - that Citrine devised the notes, based on Parliamentary rules of debate, to ensure the efficient and orderly conduct of the business. So well received were they that the ETU adopted them nationally in its Rule Book in 1914. Over the years, they were revised and adapted to changing circumstances in a union which grew vastly during World War 1.\n\nIn 1920, Citrine, who had stood as a Labour Parliamentary candidate for the Wallasey seat in the 1918 General Election, was encouraged to produce an expanded version of this guide for other unions and the Labour Party, entitled \"The Labour Chairman\". This was published with an introduction by a leading National Union of Railwaymen and TUC figure of that time, J.H. (‘Jimmy’) Thomas. It had considerable influence and became an authoritative source of rulings on all procedural aspects of the conduct of meetings from branch to national levels.\n\nIt was this book, later updated by Citrine, which was published by the Fabian Society, Co-operative Society, NCLC and many unions as The ABC of Chairmanship from 1939 onwards. New editions were published regularly until the 1980s and all those whose duty it fell to chair or manage meetings (not just by union and Labour Party officers), saw their well-thumbed copies as ‘their bible’. Alan Johnson MP, former General Secretary of the Communication Workers Union and Home Secretary, and now a highly successful author of two books of memoirs, described Citrine (as it is generally called), as his and all his colleagues’ key guide.\n\nWalter Citrine was a leading British trade unionist of the twentieth century.\n"}
{"id": "32178376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32178376", "title": "Archives and Records Association", "text": "Archives and Records Association\n\nThe Archives and Records Association (ARA) is the principal professional body for archivists, archive conservators and records managers in the UK and Ireland. The Archives and Records Association (ARA, UK & Ireland) came into existence on 1 June 2010 and is the result of a merger of the National Council on Archives (NCA) and the Association of Chief Archivists in Local Government (ACALG) with the Society of Archivists (SoA). It is a member of the International Council on Archives.\n\nThe principal aims of the ARA are: to promote the care and preservation of archives and the better administration of archive repositories; to advance the training of its members; and to encourage relevant research and publication. It achieves these aims through the work of its Council and its various Committees, Groups and Regions, and through its role as the voice of the three professions. The association advises, submits evidence and makes comment on matters of professional concern to people or organisations whose activities affect archives and records.\n\nThe association has over two thousand members, mainly made up of professional archivists, records managers, archive conservators and digital curators from all the different types of organisations that employ such professionals. Through an affiliate membership scheme, those who work at a paraprofessional level or who are generally interested in the work of the association and its members can join. There is also a student membership option for those who are studying for a professional qualification in archives, records management or archive conservation.\n\nThe association is managed by a Council, which is partially elected every two years, along with a number of committees and sub-committees relating to specific areas of business.\n\nThe membership is divided into eleven regions that span the whole of the UK and Ireland, each with their own regional committee. The regional group covering Ireland (both the Republic and Northern Ireland) has a semi-autonomous status as the Archives and Records Association, Ireland.\n\nSeven special interest groups also exist within the organisation’s structure, representing members’ different employment backgrounds and/or concerns.\n\nThe association has an office in Taunton, Somerset, which deals with the day-to-day administration of the organisation.\n\nA biannual publication entitled \"Archives and Records: The Journal of the Archives and Records Association\", which covers professional issues, is produced for the association's members. The journal was previously known as the \"Journal of the Society of Archivists\", and this title was retained until 2012: the current title was first used for volume 34, published in 2013. The association also publishes a monthly newsletter, called \"ARC Magazine\" (Archives, Records management, Conservation), and a fortnightly recruitment supplement called ARC Recruitment containing job and voluntary placement opportunities. Periodically more in depth guides on particular types of records or professional issues are produced and made available for members to purchase.\n\nIn terms of professional training for archives and records management, the ARA accredits externally provided postgraduate diploma/degree programmes, of which there are currently six; three in England and one each in Wales, Scotland and Ireland.\n\nFor Archive Conservation, the association runs a Certificate in Archive Conservation as an in-service scheme restricted to members only. It is also involved in the Professional Accreditation of Conservator-Restorers (PAC-R) scheme.\nOther training events for members are organised by the Regional committees or Special Interest Groups of the association and co-ordinated by the association’s Training Officer.\nThe association’s Registration Scheme acts as a formal process of continued professional development. A register was first established in 1987, initially with a clause allowing professional members to be accepted automatically if they had been working in a recognised post for at least two years: this clause has now been closed and full completion of the present scheme, introduced in 1996, is now the only way to become a Registered Member of the association. Those who complete the registration scheme are entitled to use the post-nominals RMARA (Registered Member Archives and Records Association).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16925366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925366", "title": "Armorial Hall of the Winter Palace", "text": "Armorial Hall of the Winter Palace\n\nThe Armorial Hall of the Winter Palace is a vast chamber originally designed for official ceremonies. The Armorial Hall is located between the Military Gallery and the palace courtyard.\n\nThe current hall was designed by Vasily Stasov in the late 1830s, after the original hall was damaged by an extensive palace fire in 1837; it was at this time that the fluted columns were gilded. Along with St George's Hall and the Nicholas Hall, it was one of the palace's main areas for entertaining. The edges of the hall are decorated with vast stucco panoplies. In the center of the hall sits a lapidary vase made of aventurine from 1842.\n\nUnder the direction of Anatoly Lunacharsky, who became the Commissar of Enlightenment after the October Revolution, the Armorial Hall was used as a concert hall, with a capacity of up to 2,000.\n\nToday, as part of the State Hermitage Museum, this room retains its original decoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "59068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59068", "title": "Ascension of Jesus", "text": "Ascension of Jesus\n\nThe ascension of Jesus (anglicized from the Vulgate Latin section title: \"Ascensio Iesu\") is the departure of Christ from Earth into the presence of God. \nThe biblical narrative in Chapter 1 of the Acts of the Apostles takes place 40 days after the resurrection: Jesus is taken up from the disciples in their sight, a cloud hides him from view, and two men in white appear to tell them that he will return \"in the same way you have seen him go into heaven.\" In the Christian tradition, reflected in the major Christian creeds and confessional statements, the ascension is connected with the exaltation of Jesus, meaning that through his ascension, Jesus took his seat at the right hand of God: \"He ascended into heaven, and is seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty.\" Despite this, in modern times the Ascension is seen less as the climax of the mystery of Christ than as \"something of an embarrassment\", in the words of McGill University's Douglas Farrow.\n\nIn Christian art, the ascending Jesus is often shown blessing an earthly group below him, signifying the entire Church. The Feast of the Ascension is celebrated on the 40th day of Easter, always a Thursday; the Orthodox tradition has a different calendar up to a month later than in the Western tradition, and while the Anglican communion continues to observe the feast, most Protestant churches have abandoned the observance. \n\nLuke-Acts, a single work from the same anonymous author, provides the only narrative account of the ascension. Luke 24 tells how Jesus leads the eleven disciples to Bethany, a village on the Mount of Olives not far from Jerusalem, where he instructs them to remain in Jerusalem until the coming of the Holy Spirit and blesses them. \"And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he parted from them, and was carried up into heaven. And they worshiped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy.\" Acts 1 describes a meal at which Jesus commands the disciples to await the coming of the Holy Spirit, a cloud takes him upward from sight, and two men in white appear to tell them (the disciples) that he will return \"in the same way you have seen him go into heaven.\" Luke and Acts appear to describe the same event, but present quite different chronologies, Luke placing it on the same day as the resurrection and Acts forty days afterwards; various proposals have been put forward to resolve the contradiction, but the question remains open.\n\nThe Gospel of John has three references to ascension in Jesus' own words: \"No one has ascended into heaven but he who descended from heaven, the son of man\" (John 3:13); \"What if you (the disciples) were to see the son of man ascending where he was before?\" (John 6:62); and to Mary Magdalene after his resurrection, \"Do not hold me, for I not yet ascended to my father...\" (John 20:17). In the first and second Jesus is claiming to be the apocalyptic \"one like a son of man\" of Daniel 7; the last has mystified commentators – why should Mary be prohibited from touching the risen but not yet ascended Christ, while Thomas is later invited to do so?\n\nVarious epistles (Romans 8:34, Ephesians 1:19-20, Colossians 3:1, Philippians 2:9-11, 1 Timothy 3:16, and 1 Peter 3:21-22) also refer to an ascension, seeming, like Luke-Acts and John, to equate it with the post-resurrection \"exaltation\" of Jesus to the right hand of God. There is a broad consensus among scholars that the brief ascension account in the Gospel of Mark (Mark 16:19) is a later addition to the original version of that gospel.\nTheologian James Dunn describes the ascension as at best a puzzle and at worst an embarrassment for an age which no longer conceives of a physical heaven located above the Earth. The cosmology of the author of Luke-Acts was quite different: his age believed in a three-part cosmos with the heavens above, a flat earth centered on Jerusalem in the middle, and the underworld below. Heaven was separated from the earth by the firmament, the visible sky, a solid inverted bowl where God's palace sat on pillars in the celestial sea. Humans looking up from earth saw the floor of heaven, made of clear blue lapis-lazuli (Exodus 24:9-10), as was God's throne (Ezekiel 1:26).\n\nAscension stories were fairly common around the time of Jesus and the gospel-authors, signifying the deification of a noteworthy person (usually a Roman Emperor), and in Judaism as an indication of divine approval. Another function of heavenly ascent was as a mode of divine revelation reflected in Greco-Roman, early Jewish, and early Christian literary sources, in which particular individuals with prophetic or revelatory gifts are thought to have experienced a heavenly journey during which they learned cosmic and divine secrets. Figures familiar to Jews would have included Enoch (from the Book of Genesis and a popular non-Biblical work called 1 Enoch); the 5th-century sage Ezra; Baruch the companion of the prophet Jeremiah (from a work called 2 Baruch, in which Baruch is promised he will ascend to heaven after 40 days); Levi the ancestor of priests; the Teacher of Righteousness from the Qumran community; the prophet Elijah (from 2 Kings); Moses, who was deified on entering heaven; and the children of Job, who according to the Testament of Job ascended heaven following their resurrection from the dead. Non-Jewish readers would have been familiar with the case of the emperor Augustus, whose ascent was witnessed by Senators; Romulus the founder of Rome, who, like Jesus, was taken to heaven in a cloud; the Greek hero Heracles (Hercules); and others.\n\nThe common thread linking all the New Testament ascension references, reflected in the major Christian creeds and confessional statements, is the exaltation of Jesus, meaning that through his ascension Jesus took his seat at the right hand of God in Heaven: \"He ascended into heaven, and is seated at the right hand of God the Father almighty.\" (Apostles' Creed) It implies the human Jesus being taken into Heaven and marks the beginning of Christ's heavenly rule, and its hold on the Christian imagination is evidenced by its importance in Christian art through the centuries.\n\nThe Feast of the Ascension is one of the ecumenical (i.e., universally celebrated) feasts of the Christian liturgical year, along with the Passion, Easter, Pentecost, and Christmas. Ascension Day is traditionally celebrated on the sixth Thursday after Easter Sunday, the fortieth day from Easter day, although some Roman Catholic provinces have moved the observance to the following Sunday to facilitate the obligation to attend Mass. Saint Jerome held that it was of Apostolic origin, but in fact the ascension was originally part of Pentecost (the coming of the Holy Spirit), and developed as a separate celebration only slowly from the late 4th century onward. In the Catholic tradition it begins with a three-day \"rogation\" to ask for God's mercy, and the feast itself includes a procession of torches and banners symbolising Christ's journey to the Mount of Olives and entry into heaven, the extinguishing of the Paschal candle, and an all-night vigil; white is the liturgical colour. The orthodox tradition has a slightly different calendar up to a month later than in the Western tradition; the Anglican communion continues to observe the feast, but most Protestant churches have abandoned the traditional Christian calendar of feasts.\n\nThe ascension has been a frequent subject in Christian art. By the 6th century the iconography of the ascension had been established and by the 9th century ascension scenes were being depicted on domes of churches. The Rabbula Gospels (c. 586) include some of the earliest images of the ascension. Many ascension scenes have two parts, an upper (Heavenly) part and a lower (earthly) part. The ascending Christ may be carrying a resurrection banner or make a sign of benediction with his right hand. The blessing gesture by Christ with his right hand is directed towards the earthly group below him and signifies that he is blessing the entire Church. In the left hand, he may be holding a Gospel or a scroll, signifying teaching and preaching.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox portrayal of the ascension is a major metaphor for the mystical nature of the Church. In many Eastern icons the Virgin Mary is placed at the center of the scene in the earthly part of the depiction, with her hands raised towards Heaven, often accompanied by various Apostles. The upwards-looking depiction of the earthly group matches the Eastern liturgy on the Feast of the Ascension: \"Come, let us rise and turn our eyes and thoughts high ...\"\n\nThe traditional site of the ascension is Mount Olivet (the \"Mount of Olives\"), on which the village of Bethany sits. Before the conversion of Constantine in 312 AD, early Christians honored the ascension of Christ in a cave on the Mount, and by 384 the ascension was venerated on the present site, uphill from the cave.\n\nAround the year 390 a wealthy Roman woman named Poimenia financed construction of the original church called \"Eleona Basilica\" (\"elaion\" in Greek means \"olive garden\", from \"elaia\" \"olive tree,\" and has an oft-mentioned similarity to \"eleos\" meaning \"mercy\"). This church was destroyed by Sassanid Persians in 614. It was subsequently rebuilt, destroyed, and rebuilt again by the Crusaders. This final church was later destroyed by Muslims, leaving only a 12x12 meter octagonal structure (called a \"martyrium\"—\"memorial\"—or \"Edicule\") that remains to this day. The site was ultimately acquired by two emissaries of Saladin in the year 1198 and has remained in the possession of the Islamic Waqf of Jerusalem ever since. The Russian Orthodox Church also maintains a convent of the ascension on the top of the Mount of Olives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49619759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49619759", "title": "Auckland Harbour Board v Commissioner of Inland Revenue", "text": "Auckland Harbour Board v Commissioner of Inland Revenue\n\nAuckland Harbour Board v Commissioner of Inland Revenue [1999] NZCA 225; (1999) 19 NZTC 15,433 is a prominent case in New Zealand tax law regarding the issue of tax avoidance.\n"}
{"id": "2035270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2035270", "title": "Bahá'í/Bábí split", "text": "Bahá'í/Bábí split\n\nThe Bahá'í/Bábí split occurred when most Bábís accepted Bahá'u'lláh as the messiah of the Báb's writings, leading them to become Bahá'ís, and leaving a remnant of Bábís who became known as Azalis. The split occurred after Bahá'í founder Bahá'u'lláh made his claims to be the messiah public in 1866, leading to expressions of support from the majority of the Bábí community, and opposition from Subh-i-Azal, who became the leader of the remaining group.\n\nSiyyid `Alí-Muhammad was a merchant from Shiraz, Persia, who at the age of 25, claimed to be a new and independent Manifestation of God, and the promised Qá'im, or Mihdí of Islam. In his early writings he took on the title of the Báb, meaning \"Gate\", after a Shi'a religious concept that explained he was only a, 'door', or 'gate', for a soon to come Manifestation of God, or Prophet. His followers were therefore known as Bábís. He later declared that he was not just, 'the Gate', or the Bab, but he was the Qa'im, or Promised One himself.\n\nThe Báb's writings had the concept of the returning messiah called, \"He whom God shall make manifest\". As the Báb's teachings spread, the Islamic government saw his following as a threat to the state religion. Several military confrontations took place between government and Bábí forces. The Báb was imprisoned and executed by firing squad in Tabriz on July 9, 1850.\n\nIn most of his prominent writings, the Báb alluded to a Promised One, most commonly referred to as \"Him whom God shall make manifest\", and that he himself was \"but a ring upon the hand of Him Whom God shall make manifest.\" The Bayán is essentially a discourse on Him whom God shall make manifest, and the Báb always discussed his own writings in the context of the coming of Him Whom God shall make manifest. Several of the Báb's writings state the coming of Him Whom God shall make manifest would be imminent.\n\nThe Báb eliminated the institution of successorship or vicegerency to his movement, and stated that no other person's writings would be binding after his death until Him Whom God shall make manifest would appear.\n\nHe did, however, appoint a nominal leader after himself. Shortly before the Báb's execution, a follower of the Báb, Abd al-Karim, brought to the Báb's attention the necessity to appoint a leader; thus the Báb wrote a certain number of tablets which he gave to Abd al-Karim to deliver to Subh-i-Azal and Bahá'u'lláh. These tablets were later interpreted by both Azalis and Bahá'ís as proof of the Báb's delegation of leadership. Bahá'í sources state that the Báb did this at the suggestion of Bahá'u'lláh.\n\nIn one of the tablets, which is commonly referred to as the \"Will and Testament of the Báb\", Subh-i-Azal is viewed to have been appointed as leader of the Bábis after the death of the movement's founder; the tablet, in verse 27, also appears to order Subh-i-Azal \"...to obey Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest.\" Multiple versions of this tablet exist, and Browne notes in his translation that this copy of the letter is actually in Subh-i-Azal's handwriting rather than the Báb's. Browne, discussing a visit with Subh-i-Azal in Cyprus, notes that he saw the original document in the Báb's own handwriting.\n\nIn addition to the difficulties of collecting original Bábí documents at such a distance — Browne was at Cambridge — was the widespread Azali practice of \"Taqiyya\" (Dissimulation), or concealing one's beliefs. Browne appears to have been unaware of this. (See Azali Taqiyya (Dissimulation) below.)\n\nSubh-i-Azal's leadership was controversial. He generally absented himself from the Bábí community spending his time in Baghdad in hiding and disguise; and even went so far as to publicly disavow allegiance to the Báb on several occasions. Subh-i-Azal gradually alienated himself from a large proportion of the Bábís who started to give their alliance to other claimants. During the time that both Bahá'u'lláh and Subh-i-Azal were in Baghdad, since Subh-i-Azal remained in hiding, Bahá'u'lláh performed much of the daily administration of the Bábí affairs.\n\nBahá'u'lláh claimed that in 1852, while a prisoner in Tehran, he was visited by a \"Maid of Heaven\", which symbolically marked the beginning of his mission as a Messenger of God. In 1863 as he was leaving Baghdad in the Garden of Ridván, he made his first public declaration to be Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest, the messianic figure in the Báb's writings, to a small number of followers. This declaration started a new phase of leadership in the Bábí community that would eventually lead to the emergence of the Bahá'í Faith as a separate movement distinct from Bábism. While in Adrianople (current-day Edirne, Turkey), Bahá'u'lláh was the clear leader of the newly established Bábí community, and a permanent break between Bahá'u'lláh and Subh-i-Azal occurred.\n\nIn 1865 Subh-i-Azal was accused of attempting to plot to kill Bahá'u'lláh. In contemporary accounts, Subh-i Azal is reported to have tried to have Bahá'u'lláh assassinated at the hands of the barber of the local bath. The barber, Muhammad `Alí of Isfahán, apparently refused and spread word of the danger around the community. Bahá'u'lláh is reported to have counselled \"on all patience, quietude and gentleness\". This pattern was repeated when, according to the personal account of Ustád Muhammad-`Alíy-i Salmání, Subh-i Azal attempted to persuade him likewise to murder Bahá'u'lláh in the bath. Eventually Subh-i-Azal attempted to poison Bahá'u'lláh that left him gravely ill for a time, and left him with a shaking hand for the rest of his life. Later, followers of Azal made the counter-claim that Bahá'u'lláh had accidentally poisoned himself while trying to poison others. Smith also notes that the Bahá'í accounts of this dispute seem to be credible.\n\nAfter this event in 1866 Bahá'u'lláh made his claim to be Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest public, as well as making a formal written announcement to Subh-i-Azal referring to his followers for the first time as the \"people of Bahá\". After his public announcement, Bahá'u'lláh secluded himself in his house and instructed the Bábís to choose between himself and Subh-i-Azal. Bahá'u'lláh's claims threatened Subh-i-Azal's position as leader of the religion since it would mean little to be leader of the Bábís if \"Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest\" were to appear and start a new religion. Subhh-i-Azal responded by making his own claims, but his attempt to preserve the traditional Bábísm was largely unpopular, and his followers became the minority.\n\nIn 1867, Subh-i-Azal challenged Bahá'u'lláh to a test of the divine will in a local mosque in Edirne (Adrianople), such that \"God would strike down the impostor.\" Bahá'u'lláh agreed, and went to the Sultan Selim mosque at the appointed time, but Mirza Yahya lost face and lost credibility when he refused to show up.\n\nEventually Bahá'u'lláh was recognized by the vast majority of Bábís as \"He whom God shall make manifest\" and his followers began calling themselves Bahá'ís. The small minority of Bábís that followed Subh-i-Azal became known as Azalis.\n\nAfter the Bábí community was separated into two, the Azalis tried to discredit Bahá'u'lláh to the Ottoman authorities, accusing him of causing agitation against the government. While an investigation cleared Bahá'u'lláh, it did notify the government that Bahá'u'lláh and Subh-i-Azal were propagating religious claims, and may cause future disorder, and thus led to the further exile of the 'Bábí' leaders. A royal command was issued in July 1868 condemning the Bábís to perpetual imprisonment and isolation in far-flung outposts of the Ottoman Empire — Famagusta, Cyprus for Subh-i-Azal and his followers, and `Akká, in Ottoman Palestine, for Bahá'u'lláh and his followers.\n\nWhile most of those that followed Subh-i-Azal were sent to Cyprus, some were sent to Akká, intended to serve as spies. In 1872 a few Bahá'ís decided to kill the followers of Subh-i-Azal as they were causing endless difficulties to the Bahá'í community. Bahá'u'lláh strongly condemned the action, and publicly condemned the murderers as clear violators of Bahá'í law. The Ottoman authorities initially hardened the imprisonment of Bahá'u'lláh. But as Bahá'u'lláh was later exonerated by the authorities as having no connection to the murders, their imprisonment was eased.\n\nEventually Bahá'u'lláh was recognized by the vast majority of Bábís as \"He whom God shall make manifest\" and his followers began calling themselves Bahá'ís. By 1908 there were probably from half a million to a million Bahá'ís, and at most only a hundred followers of Subhh-i-Azal. Subh-i Azal died in Famagusta, Cyprus in 1912, and his followers are known as Azalis or Azali Bábis. MacEoin notes that after the deaths of those Azali Babis who were active in the Constitutional Revolution in Iran, the Azali form of Babism entered a stagnation which it has not recovered as there is no acknowledged leader or central organization. Current estimates of Azalis are that there are no more than a few thousand. The \"World Religion Database\" estimated 7.3 million Bahá'ís in 2010 and stated: \"The Baha'i Faith is the only religion to have grown faster in every United Nations region over the past 100 years than the general population; Baha'i(sic) was thus the fastest-growing religion between 1910 and 2010, growing at least twice as fast as the population of almost every UN region.\" Bahá'í sources since 1991 usually estimate the worldwide Bahá'í population at \"above 5 million\". See Bahá'í statistics.\n\nAfter Bahá'u'lláh's death, leadership of the religion then passed on to `Abdu'l-Bahá, Bahá'u'lláh's son, who was appointed by Bahá'u'lláh, and was accepted by almost all Bahá'ís. After the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá in 1921, the leadership of the Bahá'í community was passed on to his grandson, Shoghi Effendi, who was appointed in `Abdu'l-Bahá's will. The document appointed Shoghi Effendi as the first Guardian, and called for the election of the Universal House of Justice once the Bahá'í Faith had spread sufficiently for such elections to be meaningful. Shoghi Effendi died in 1957, and in 1963 the Universal House of Justice was elected. Since 1963 the Universal House of Justice has been elected every five years and remains the successor and leading institution of the religion.\n\nThere are conflicting reports as to whom Subh-i-Azal appointed as his successor. Browne reports that there was confusion over who was to be Subh-i-Azal's successor at his death. Subh-i-Azal's son, Rizwán `Ali, reported that he had appointed the son of Aqa Mirza Muhammad Hadi Daulatabadi as his successor; while another, H.C. Lukach's, states that Mirza Yahya had said that whichever of his sons \"resembled him the most\" would be the successor. None appear to have stepped forward. MacEoin notes that Subh-i-Azal appointed his son, Yahya Dawlatabadi, as his successor, but he notes that there is little evidence that Yahya Dawlatabadi was involved in the affairs of the religion, and that instead he spent his time as that of secular reformer. Shoghi Effendi reports that Mirza Yahya appointed a distinguished Bábí, Aqa Mirza Muhammad Hadi of Daulatabad (Mirza Hadiy-i-Dawlat-Abadi) successor, but he later publicly recanted his faith in the Báb and in Mirza Yahya. Mirza Yahya's eldest son apparently became a Bahá'í himself.\n\nThe practice of \"Taqiyya\" (Dissimulation, or concealing one's beliefs) was widespread among Azalis. While the primary means of transmitting copies of documents was manually copying them which could introduce discrepancies between copies the practice of \"taqiyya\" led some to actually alter and falsify Bábí teachings and history. This compromised their campaign against Bahá'u'lláh. One historian has concluded:\n\n\"Bahaullah clearly announced that the recognition of the manifestation of God and ‘steadfastness’ [in] His Cause is more important than observing any of the other teachings. Gradual abandonment of taqiyyah amongst the Baha’is was one of the distinguishing feature[s] of the new religion from the Babi era. After this time the practice of taqiyyah became unofficially superseded.\n\n\"In contrast the Azali Babis glorified taqiyyah in their literature. Taqiyyah was considered a virtue and classified into various levels of concealment. Prominent Azali leaders openly recanted their faith and even abused Bab and Azal in the process. The extent of taqiyyah in their words and actions caused Mirza Abu’l-Fadl to question Edward Browne’s method of portraying of Azali Babis. Taqiyyah became one of the distinguishing features of the Azali-Bahai split.\"\n\nCompounding the problem of collecting reliable manuscripts, Azali \"taqiyya\" had the effect of rendering many early Bábí documents unreliable afterwards, as Azali Bábís would often alter and falsify Bábí teachings and history.\n\nThe Arabic Bayán is a book written by the Báb around 1848, and is the smaller sister book to the Persian Bayán. The work is incomplete, containing only eleven chapters of a supposedly total nineteen. In the tablet that is considered the Báb's will and testament, he gives permission to Subh-i-Azal to finish the remaining eight, with the permission of Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest. The Azalis believe that this means that the Báb authorized Subh-i-Azal to finish the text of the Arabic Bayán. However, Saiedi states that even if it is assumed that Subh-i-Azal was allowed to finish the remaining chapters of the book, it could only happen if He whom God shall make manifest had already appeared and had revealed the eight chapters for him. The Báb states that after his death no one else's writings will be binding until the appearance of He whom God shall make manifest, and the text of the Arabic Bayán was written in a style termed \"divine verses\", and the Báb states that in another one of his writings that after him only He whom God shall make manifest can reveal divine verses. Subh-i-Azal did write a book that was supposed to complete the Bayán, the Mutammim-i-Bayan, but instead of completing the Arabic Bayán, he tries to extend the Persian Bayán; it seems Subh-i-Azal, unlike his followers, did not understand the reference of the Báb to mean that he had to complete the Arabic Bayán.\n\nSaiedi also points to another translation and interpretation of the version in the Báb's letter: the Báb's use the word \"manahij (paths)\" in two ways; in one way it refers to the chapters of the Bayán, and in another way it refers to the entire Bayán and his laws. Saiedi states that the reference to manifesting the eight paths may refer to the distribution of the eight copies of the Bayán that the Báb had sent to Subh-i-Azal, to the eight individuals who are identified in the letter, when the Promised One appears.\n\nThe Báb prophesied that the messianic figure He whom God shall make manifest would emerge some time in the future. Many of the Báb's writings support the belief that He whom God shall make manifest's arrival would be imminent. The Bahá'í belief is that the Báb's writings allude to the year 9, while the Azali belief is that He whom God shall make manifest would come after 2000 years.\n\nIn Azali belief, the Promised One could not appear until the realization of the laws of the Bayán and the maturation of the Bayán in 2000 years. However, there are problems with this belief and inconsistencies in Azali belief. The Azalis believe that the Báb gave permission for Subh-i-Azal to complete the Arabic Bayán with the permission of He whom God shall make manifest, thus pointing to He whom God shall make manifest appearing in Subh-i-Azal's own lifetime. Also, the \"Nuqtatu'l-Kaf\", an Azali text, states that the laws of the Bayán may be abrogated a few years after the Báb's death, and that He whom God shall make manifest may appear within Subh-i-Azal's lifetime. The Azali view that the appearance of He whom God shall make manifest can only occur thousands of years in the future is also problematic, since in some of their texts they state that Subh-i-Azal is He whom God shall make manifest.\n\nThe Báb writes in many of his texts about the imminent appearance of the Promised One. In many of his writings he refers to the year nine and nineteen from the beginning of his claimed revelation (1844) as to the appearance of He whom God shall make manifest. He also uses the Abjad numerals of Arabic, a system of providing numerical values for letters and words, to identify the coming of He whom God shall make manifest, referring the manifest aspect of the Most Great Name of God as \"Vahid\" which has a numerical value of 19 and the hidden aspect of the same name as \"Bahá\" which has a numerical value of 9. Bahá'ís point to the Báb's allusions to the years nine (1853) and nineteen (1863) in the Báb's writings as a prophecy of Bahá'u'lláh being He whom God shall make manifest. Bahá'u'lláh claimed that while being imprisoned in the Siyah-Chal in 1853 in Iran he underwent a series of mystical experiences including having a vision of the \"Maid of Heaven\" who told him of his divine mission, and the promise of divine assistance. In 1863 as he was leaving Baghdad in the Garden of Ridván, Bahá'u'lláh made his first public declaration to be Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest.\n\nBahá'ís argue that succession in the Bábí religion was superseded when the Bahá'í Faith's founder Bahá'u'lláh declared himself to be He whom God shall make manifest - they often describe Subh-i-Azal as an \"interim head.\"\n\nBahá'ís view Subh-i-Azal's leadership largely as a nominal head. According to Taherzadeh:\n\n\"Mirza Yahya [Subh-i-Azal] came into prominence not because he possessed any outstanding qualities, but rather through his close link with Bahá'u'lláh. In order to divert the attention of the enemies of the Faith from the person of Bahá'u'lláh, Who had emerged as a focal point among the early believers, the Báb wholeheartedly approved the suggestion of nominating the youthful and relatively unknown Mirza Yahya [Subh-i-Azal] as the chief of the Bábí community. This suggestion had come from Bahá'u'lláh, and only two others were aware of the plan, namely, Bahá'u'lláh's faithful brother Mírzá Músá (Áqáy-i-Kalím) and a certain Mulla Abdu'l-Karim-i-Qazvini, who had been entrusted by the Báb, shortly before His martyrdom, with the task of delivering His pen-case, seals and writings to Bahá'u'lláh; he was subsequently martyred in Tihran at the time of Bahá'u'lláh's imprisonment in the Siyah-Chal.\n\nThe advantages of this nomination were obvious and, as this system operated for some time, those who were endowed with insight and wisdom were able to see that Mirza Yahya was only a figurehead, and that it was the guiding hand of Bahá'u'lláh alone that was unobtrusively directing the affairs of the Bábí community after the martyrdom of the Báb.\"\n\nThis view is supported by the Báb's long-time secretary Mulla Abdu'l-Karim-i-Qazvini, believed to be the only other person who participated in the plan. John Walbridge writes:\n\n\"With him [Mulla Abdu'l-Karim-i-Qazvini] Bahá'u'lláh originated the plan to proclaim Mirza Yahya as the Báb's successor while keeping him in hiding — this in order to deflect attention from Bahá'u'lláh, who was well known to the authorities and the people.\"\n\nQazvini himself wrote in a letter in 1851 describing the urgency that the friends do nothing to call attention to Bahá'u'lláh during his period of messianic secrecy:\n\n\"But it is requested, according to his [Bahá'u'lláh] command, that the friends should desist from hinting around (shivih-ha) about him, as they had in the past, in such a way that they provoked troubles for the friends of God; and that they should avoid bringing sorrow upon that gentleman, who is of gentle disposition.\nLet them not provoke investigations or cause the encounter with God to become more distant, or become a veil of chains and manacles between the servants and the Lord of Lords any more than they already have been.\"\n\nNear the end of his life the Báb had his remaining writings, other \"accoutrement\", as well as a particular tablet addressed to Bahá'u'lláh, delivered to him.\n\n\"In Qum, shortly before the Báb's martyrdom, he received a coffer from the Báb containing the last of his writings and his pen-case, seals, rings, and the famous pentacle tablet containing 350 derivatives of the word Bahá. He left the same day for Tehran, explaining that the Báb's accompanying letter ordered him to deliver it to Bahá'u'lláh.\"\n\nBahá'ís believes there is symbolism in the Báb sending to Báhá'u'llah not only all of his remaining writings, but his seals and his pens, literally handing over the instruments of revelation, along with the pentacle tablet written in his own hand confirming Bahá'u'lláh's station. The Báb's Will & Testament, which was unambiguously directed to Subh-i-Azal, makes it clear that he would not be the One promised by the Báb:\n\n\"We order you to obey Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest. He will verily appear amongst this people with a sublime reign in the final resurrection. Verily we are all servants and kneel down before Him. He shall carry out whatever He wishes, with permission from His Lord. He shall not be questioned for his actions. However, all others are responsible for everything they do.\" [verses 27-29]\n\nRegarding Subh-i-Azal, common Bahá'í belief is summarised by Shoghi Effendi, who wrote that Subh-i-Azal was \"good-natured yet susceptible to the slightest influence\". This is a reference to Siyyid Muhammad-i-Isfahani, who is accused of conspiring with Subh-i-Azal and leading him astray. He is sometimes described as the Bahá'í \"anti-Christ\".\n\nAzalis rejected the divine claims of Bahá'u'lláh, arguing that the world must first accept the laws of the Báb before \"He Whom God Shall Make Manifest\" can appear.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "433175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433175", "title": "Berlin Palace", "text": "Berlin Palace\n\nThe Berlin Palace ( or \"Stadtschloss\"), also known as the Berlin City Palace, is a building in the centre of Berlin, located on the Museum Island at Schlossplatz, opposite the Lustgarten park. It was a royal and imperial palace and served mostly as the main residence of the Electors of Brandenburg, the Kings of Prussia and the German Emperors. Demolished by the government of East Germany the 1950s, the palace is currently being rebuilt, with completion expected in 2019. The reconstructed palace will be the seat of the Humboldt Forum, a museum for world culture which is a successor museum of the Ancient Prussian Art Chamber, which was also located in the Berlin Palace. The Humboldt Forum has been described as the German equivalent of the British Museum.\n\nThe palace was originally built in the 15th century and changed throughout the next few centuries. It bore features of the Baroque style, and its shape, finalised by the middle 18th century, is for the most part attributed to German architect Andreas Schlüter, whose first design is likely to date from 1702, though the palace incorporated earlier parts seen in 1688 by Nicodemus Tessin. It served as a residence to various Electors of Brandenburg. It was the principal residence and winter residence of the Hohenzollern Kings of Prussia from 1701 to 1918. After the unification of Germany in 1871, it also became the central residence for the German Emperors. After the proclamation of the Weimar Republic in 1918, the palace became a museum. In World War II, the building was heavily damaged by Allied bombings. Although it could have been repaired, the palace was demolished in 1950 by the German Democratic Republic authorities, despite criticism. In the 1970s, the Palace of the Republic was constructed on its site, but demolished in 2008 to make place for the reconstruction of the old palace.\n\nFollowing the reunification of Germany, it was decided to rebuild the entire exterior of the palace in the original style except for the east side. The authentically reconstructed facades will include various remnant sculptures and rocks of the original palace. The interior will be modern, except the facades of one of the courts which is constructed in original style (Schlüterhof). However, the floorplan has been designed to allow potential future reconstruction of notable historical rooms. The building will house the Humboldtforum museum and congress complex, and is scheduled to be finished 14 September 2019.\n\nThe palace replaced an earlier fort or castle guarding the crossing of the Spree river at Cölln, a neighboring town which merged with Berlin in 1710. The castle stood on Fishers' Island, as the southern end of the Museum Island in the Spree is known. In 1443 Frederick II \"Irontooth\", Margrave and Prince Elector of Brandenburg, laid the foundations of Berlin's first fortification in a section of swampy wasteland north of Cölln. At the completion of the castle in 1451, Frederick moved there from the town of Brandenburg. The main role of the castle and its garrison in this period was to establish the authority of the Margraves over the unruly citizens of Berlin, who were reluctant to give up their medieval privileges to a monarchy. In 1415 King Sigismund had enfeoffed the Hohenzollern princes with Brandenburg, and they were now establishing their power and withdrawing electoral privileges which the cities had attained in the Brandenburg interregnum of 1319–1415.\n\nThe castle also included a chapel. In 1454 Frederick II, after having returned via Rome from his pilgrimage to Jerusalem, made the castle chapel a parish church, richly endowing it with relics and altars. Pope Nicholas V ordered Stephan Bodecker, then Prince-Bishop of Brandenburg, to consecrate the Chapel to Erasmus of Formiae.\n\nOn 7 April 1465, at Frederick's request, Pope Paul II attributed to \"St Erasmus Chapel\" a canon-law College named \"Stift zu Ehren Unserer Lieben Frauen, des heiligen Kreuzes, St. Petri und Pauli, St. Erasmi und St. Nicolai\". This collegiate church became the nucleus of today's Evangelical Supreme Parish and Collegiate Church, adjoining the site of the castle.\n\nIn 1538, the Margrave Joachim II demolished the palace and engaged the master builder Caspar Theiss to build a new and grander building in the Italian Renaissance style. After the Thirty Years War (1618–1648), Frederick William (1620–1688), the \"Great Elector\", embellished the palace further. In 1688, Nicodemus Tessin designed courtyard arcades with massive columns in front. Not much is known about the alterations of 1690–1695, when Johann Nering was the court architect. Martin Grünberg continued the alterations in 1695–1699.\n\nIn 1699 the Elector Frederick III of Brandenburg (who took the title King in Prussia in 1701, becoming Frederick I), appointed the architect Andreas Schlüter to execute a \"second plan\" in the Italian manner. Schlüter's first design probably dates from 1702; he planned to rebuild the palace in the Protestant Baroque style. His overall concept in the shape of a regular cube enclosing a magnificently ornamented courtyard was retained by all the building directors who succeeded him. In 1706, Schlüter was replaced by Johann Friedrich Eosander von Göthe, who designed the western extension of the palace, doubling its size. In all essentials, Schlüter's balanced, rhythmic composition of the façades was retained, but Göthe moved the main entrance to the new west wing.\n\nFrederick William I, who became king in 1713, was interested mainly in building up Prussia as a military power, and dismissed most of the craftsmen working on the Stadtschloss. As a result, Göthe's plan was only partly carried out. Nevertheless, the exterior of the palace had come close to its final form by the mid-18th century. The final stage was the erection of the dome in 1845, during the reign of Frederick William IV. The dome was built by Friedrich August Stüler after a design by Karl Friedrich Schinkel. Subsequent major works were limited to the interior, engaging the talents of Georg Wenzeslaus von Knobelsdorff, Carl von Gontard and many others.\n\nThe Stadtschloss was at the centre of the Revolution of 1848 in Prussia. Huge crowds gathered outside the palace to present an \"address to the king\" containing their demands for a constitution, liberal reform and German unification. Frederick William emerged from the palace to accept their demands. On 18 March, a large demonstration outside the Stadtschloss led to bloodshed and the outbreak of street fighting. Frederick William later reneged on his promises and reimposed an autocratic regime. From that time onwards, many Berliners and other Germans came to see the Stadtschloss as a symbol of oppression and \"Prussian militarism\".\n\nIn 1871, King William I was elevated to the status of Emperor (\"Kaiser\") of a united Germany, and the Stadtschloss became the symbolic centre of the German Empire. The Empire was, however, at least in theory a constitutional state, and from 1894 the new Reichstag building, the seat of the German parliament, came to rival and overshadow the Stadtschloss as the centre of power. In conjunction with Germany's defeat in World War I, William II was forced to abdicate both as German Emperor and as King of Prussia. In November 1918, the Spartacist leader, Karl Liebknecht, declared the German Socialist Republic from a balcony of the Stadtschloss, ending more than 400 years of royal occupation of the building.\n\nDuring the Weimar Republic, parts of the Stadtschloss were turned into a museum, while other parts continued to be used for receptions and other state functions. Under Adolf Hitler's National Socialist (Nazi) Party, which laid to rest monarchist hopes of a Hohenzollern restoration, the building was mostly ignored. During World War II, the Stadtschloss was twice struck by Allied bombs: on 3 February and 24 February 1945. On the latter occasion, when the air defence and fire-fighting systems of Berlin had been destroyed, the building was struck by incendiaries, lost its roof and was largely burnt out.\n\nThe end of the war saw the Stadtschloss a burned-out shell of its former glory, although the building had remained structurally sound and much of its interior decoration was still preserved. It could have been restored, as many other bombed-out buildings in central Berlin later were. However, the area in which it was located was within the Soviet Union zone, which became the German Democratic Republic. The building was used for a Soviet war movie (\"the Battle of Berlin\") in which the Stadtschloss served as a backdrop, with live artillery shells fired at it for the realistic cinematic impact. \n\nThe new socialist government declared the Stadtschloss a symbol of Prussian militarism, although at that time there appeared to be no plans to destroy the building. Some parts of it were in fact repaired and used from 1945 to 1950 as an exhibition space. A secret 1950 GDR Ministry of Construction report, only rediscovered in 2016, calculated that reconstruction of the damaged Palace could be achieved for 32 million GDR marks. However, in July 1950 Walter Ulbricht, the new General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany, announced the demolition of the palace. Despite objections, its removal commenced in September 1950, the process taking four months and consuming 19 tons of dynamite. So solid was its construction that the dome and its entire mount remained intact even after it is fell to the ground. Only one section was preserved, a portal from the balcony of which Karl Liebknecht had declared the German Socialist Republic. It was later added to the Council of State building (Staatsratsgebäude), with an altered cartouche, where it forms the main entrance. The empty space where the Stadtschloss had stood was named Marx-Engels-Platz and used as a parade ground.\n\nIn 1964, the GDR built a new Staatsrat or Council of State building on part of the site, incorporating Liebknecht's balcony in its facade. From 1973 to 1976, during the government of Erich Honecker, a large modernist building was built, the Palast der Republik (Palace of the Republic), which occupied most of the site of the former Stadtschloss. Shortly before German reunification in October 1990, the Palast der Republik was found to be contaminated with asbestos and was closed to the public. After reunification, the Berlin city government ordered the removal of the asbestos, a process which was completed by 2003. In November 2003, the German federal government decided to demolish the building and leave the area as parkland pending a decision as to its ultimate future. Demolition started in February 2006 and was completed in 2009. East Germans resented the demolition, especially those for whom the Palace of the Republic had been a place of fond memories, or who felt a sense a dislocation in a post-communist world.\n\nFrom 2008 until the commencement of construction in 2013, the large area of original Schlossplatz became a grassed field, laid out on minimal lines with wooden platforms. At the same time, the Berlin Monument Authority (Landesdenkmalamt) undertook extensive archaeological excavations. Parts of cellars that had been situated in the south-west corner of former Palace were discovered; at it was decided these would be preserved and made accessible to visitors as an \"archaeological window\".\n\nFollowing reunification a 20-year-long debate commenced as to whether the palace should be reconstructed, and whether this should be in part or whole. Pro-reconstruction lobby groups argued that the rebuilding of the Stadtschloss would restore the unity and integrity of the historical centre of Berlin, which includes the Berliner Dom, the Lustgarten and the museums of Museum Island. Opponents of the project included those who advocated the retention of the Palast der Republik on the grounds that it was itself of historical significance; those who argued that the area should become a public park; and those who believed that a new building would be a pastiche of former architectural styles; would be an unwelcome symbol of Germany's imperial past; and would be unacceptably expensive for no definite economic benefit. They also argued that it would be impossible to accurately reconstruct the exterior or interiors of the building, since neither detailed plans nor the necessary craft skills are available. Others disputed this, claiming that sufficient photographic documentation of both existed when it was converted to a museum following 1918.\n\nThe ideological divide was symbolised by two groups. The Association for the Preservation of the Palace of the Republic (\"Verein zur Erhaltung des Palastes der Republik\") championed a renovation of the GDR building that would incorporate a re-creation of the principal western facade the City Place, for a multipurpose people's centre similar to the Centre Pompidou in Paris. The Berlin City Palace Sponsoring Association (\"Förderverein Berliner Stadtschloß\") argued for complete external reconstruction of the City Palace, considering it the only option that would restore the aesthetic and historic ensemble at Berlin's heart. It also rejected suggestions that the proposed meticulous reconstruction would be an unauthentic 'Disney' replica, drawing attention to the fact that most centuries-old stone buildings are, by dint of aging and repair, at least partial reconstructions; and that the argument that the present time can only represent itself in its own architectural language, is simply ideology. It also drew attention to the Venice Charter observation that \"historic edifices have a material age and an immaterial significance\" – an importance that transcends time, and justifies their reconstruction to preserve a vital part of urban identity and historical memory, provided that sufficient documentation for a truly authentic copy exists.\n\nThe driving force in ultimately achieving reconstruction of the Stadtschloss were businessman and aristocrat . Until von Boddien and his associates became involved, the Government had given no thought to rebuilding the entire palace. In 1992 von Boddien co-founded with Kathleen King von Alvensleben, (an American architect who had married into a German noble family), what evolved to be the Berlin City Palace Sponsoring Association – which became the most influential lobby group. The Association accumulated plans that had been believed lost, and funded a research project at the Technical University of Berlin to measure surviving photos and drawings of the Palace to create precise architectural plans. In 1993, on the world's largest scaffolding assembly, it audaciously erected a \"trompe-l'oeil\" mockup of two frontages of the Stadtschloss facade on a 1:1 scale on plastic sheeting. Privately funded by donations and sponsorship this \"coup de théâtre\" stood for a year and half. Showing a vision of central Berlin lost for fifty years, and how the palace could provide the missing link to the historical ensemble of the Zeughaus, the Altes Museum, and the Berlin Cathedral, the spectacle brought the debate to a temporary climax in 1993/4. While opinion continued to remain divided, it succeeded in winning over many politicians and other key figures for the endeavour.\n\nIn view of the previous opposition, including high cost, and most importantly, the psychological and political objections, successive German governments had declined to commit themselves to the project. However, by 2002 and 2003 cross-party resolutions of the Bundestag reached a compromise to support at least a partial rebuilding of the Stadtschloss. In 2007, the Bundestag (German parliament) made a definitive decision about the reconstruction. According to this compromise, which had been drawn up by a commission, three façades of the palace would be rebuilt, but the interior would be a modern structure to serve as a cultural museum and forum. An architectural competition was held, and in 2008 the jury chose the submission by Italian architect Franco Stella. Some of the internal spaces in Stella's design follow the exact proportions of the original state rooms of the palace, so as to facilitate their reconstruction at a later date should this be desired. The reconstruction also reproduces the original metre-thick width of the outer walls. However these have been rebuilt as a sandwiched construction: an inner retaining wall of concrete, followed by a layer of insulation, and an outer wall of brick, sandstone and stucco which replicates the original. Reconstruction of the Renaissance-gabled Pharmacy Wing, which connected to the Stadtschloss on the north side, would be another possible future project.\nDue to German government budget cuts, construction of the \"Humboldtforum\", as the new palace was titled, was delayed. The foundation stone was finally laid by President Joachim Gauck in a ceremony on 12 June 2013 signalling the launch of a €590M (£500M) reconstruction project. On completion in 2019 the building will house a modern museum containing collections of African and other non-European art, as well as two restaurants, a theater, a movie theater and an auditorium. Donations continue to be sought for the baroque facade decoration by Förderverein Berliner Schloss eV, which is funding this part of the reconstruction. In a congratulatory letter to Wilhelm von Boddien on his 75th birthday, the chairman of the board of the board of the Foundation Humboldt Forum wrote: \"Without you, the castle would not exist.\" In 2018, a Berlin newspaper conceded: \"Boddien comes from one of the longest and most annoying debates of the last 20 years, whether this Berlin needs a castle or not, as a grinning, even brilliant winner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37887856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37887856", "title": "Bibliothèque universelle de Genève", "text": "Bibliothèque universelle de Genève\n\nThe Bibliothèque universelle was an academic journal published by a group of Genevan scholars first centred on Marc-Auguste Pictet (1752–1825), later around Auguste Arthur de la Rive (1801–1873) and other scholars. It enjoyed a wide audience in the various French-speaking countries of Europe during the 19th century.\n\nThe initial form of the journal was the \"Bibliothèque Britannique\", which began publication in 1796, and focused on British science, techniques, literature and agriculture. Its founders and editors were Marc-Auguste Pictet (\"Sciences & Arts\"), Charles Pictet de Rochemont (\"Literature\") and Frédéric-Guillaume Maurice (\"Agriculture\"). This journal was succeeded in 1816 by the \"Bibliothèque universelle des sciences, belles-lettres, et arts\", which kept the same editors until 1824–25 and was also published in three series, one focusing on science and techniques, another on literature and a third one on agriculture.\n\nAfter Pictet's death (1825), the periodical was taken over by Georges Maurice (1799–1839) and Pictet de Rochemont's two sons, soon joined by a group of Genevan scholars including Etienne Dumont, Pellegrino Rossi, Jacob Frederic Lullin de Châteauvieux, as well as Augustin Pyramus de Candolle and Auguste De la Rive for the scientific part.\n\nIn 1836, the two main series, science and literature, were merged for a period of ten years under the leadership of Auguste De la Rive and given the name of \"Bibliothèque universelle de Genève\". In 1846, the periodical was divided again between a series on literature, which kept the name of \"Bibliothèque Universelle\" and a series on science, which took the name of \"Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles\".\n\nThe \"Bibliothèque Universelle\" went through many changes, which did not prevent its encyclopedic formula to become gradually obsolete. It disappeared in 1924.\n\nThe \"Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles\" were edited until the first World War by Genevan men of science such as Auguste De la Rive, François-Jules Pictet-De la Rive (1809–1872), Casimir Pyrame de Candolle (1836–1918) and Edouard Sarasin (1843–1917). Renamed \"Archives des Sciences\" in 1947, this periodical maintained its three issues a year until 2004. It still exists today as a local and non-specialized periodical of natural history and history of science.\n"}
{"id": "4843074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4843074", "title": "Bollocks to Alton Towers", "text": "Bollocks to Alton Towers\n\nBollocks to Alton Towers: Uncommonly British Days Out () is a humorous travel book written by Robin Halstead, Jason Hazeley, Alex Morris, and Joel Morris (the creators of \"The Framley Examiner\"), which showcases unusual attractions, left-field museums and one-off days out in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe introduction describes the book as \"a collection of the underdogs of British tourism... [that] say more about Britain and the British than any number of corkscrew thrill rides or high-tech Interactive Visitor Experiences.\"\n\nAccording to the book's information, the authors, on average, \"were born on 2 November 1971 and live on Blackfriars Bridge in London with their three-quarters of a partner and half a child each.\"\n\nThe book was published in hardback by Michael Joseph Ltd (an imprint of the Penguin Group) in 2005. It was also published in paperback by Penguin Books in 2006.\n\nA sequel, titled \"Far From the Sodding Crowd\", was published in hardback in 2007. A paperback edition, \"More Bollocks to Alton Towers\", () was published in April 2008.\n\nA short documentary, \"Far From the Sodding Crowd\", was made in 2009 and features some of the attractions included in both books, as well as writers Jason Hazeley and Joel Morris.\n\nAttractions covered in the book:\n\n\nThe final testimonial quote on the back of the paperback edition (published in March 2006) is:\n'A very, very witty, charming book' - Russell Barnes, General Manager, Alton Towers\n\nSome copies display the first word of the title as \"B**locks\" on the cover (front, back and spine). However the word remains uncensored inside.\n\n"}
{"id": "4318357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4318357", "title": "Bond credit rating", "text": "Bond credit rating\n\nIn investment, the bond credit rating represents the credit worthiness of corporate or government bonds. It is not the same as individual's credit score. The ratings are published by credit rating agencies and used by investment professionals to assess the likelihood the debt will be repaid.\n\nCredit rating is a highly concentrated industry with the two largest rating agencies — Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's — having roughly 80% market share globally, and the \"Big Three\" credit rating agencies — Moody's, S&P and Fitch Ratings — controlling approximately 95% of the ratings business.\n\nCredit rating agencies registered as such with the SEC are \"nationally recognized statistical rating organizations\". The following firms are currently registered as NRSROs: A.M. Best Company, Inc.; DBRS Ltd.; Egan-Jones Rating Company; Fitch, Inc.; HR Ratings; Japan Credit Rating Agency; Kroll Bond Rating Agency; Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.; Rating and Investment Information, Inc.; Morningstar Credit Ratings, LLC; and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. \n\nUnder the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act, an NRSRO may be registered with respect to up to five classes of credit ratings: (1) financial institutions, brokers, or dealers; (2) insurance companies; (3) corporate issuers; (4) issuers of asset-backed securities; and (5) issuers of government securities, municipal securities, or securities issued by a foreign government.\n\nThe credit rating is a financial indicator to potential investors of debt securities such as bonds. These are assigned by credit rating agencies such as Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings to have letter designations (such as AAA, B, CC) which represent the quality of a bond. Moody's assigns bond credit ratings of Aaa, Aa, A, Baa, Ba, B, Caa, Ca, C, with WR and NR as withdrawn and not rated. Standard & Poor's and Fitch assign bond credit ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, CCC, CC, C, D. Currently there are only two companies in the United States with a AAA credit rating: Microsoft and Johnson and Johnson.\n\nA bond is considered investment grade or IG if its credit rating is BBB- or higher by Standard & Poor's or Baa3 or higher by Moody's. Generally they are bonds that are judged by the rating agency as likely enough to meet payment obligations that banks are allowed to invest in them.\n\nRatings play a critical role in determining how much companies and other entities that issue debt, including sovereign governments, have to pay to access credit markets, i.e., the amount of interest they pay on their issued debt. The threshold between investment-grade and speculative-grade ratings has important market implications for issuers' borrowing costs. \n\nBonds that are not rated as investment-grade bonds are known as high yield bonds or more derisively as junk bonds.\n\nThe risks associated with investment-grade bonds (or investment-grade corporate debt) are considered significantly higher than those associated with first-class government bonds. The difference between rates for first-class government bonds and investment-grade bonds is called investment-grade spread. The range of this spread is an indicator of the market's belief in the stability of the economy. The higher these investment-grade spreads (or risk premiums) are, the weaker the economy is considered.\n\nUntil the early 1970s, bond credit ratings agencies were paid for their work by investors who wanted impartial information on the credit worthiness of securities issuers and their particular offerings. Starting in the early 1970s, the \"Big Three\" ratings agencies (S&P, Moody's, and Fitch) began to receive payment for their work by the securities issuers for whom they issue those ratings, which has led to charges that these ratings agencies can no longer always be impartial when issuing ratings for those securities issuers. Securities issuers have been accused of \"shopping\" for the best ratings from these three ratings agencies, in order to attract investors, until at least one of the agencies delivers favorable ratings. This arrangement has been cited as one of the primary causes of the subprime mortgage crisis (which began in 2007), when some securities, particularly mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) rated highly by the credit ratings agencies, and thus heavily invested in by many organizations and individuals, were rapidly and vastly devalued due to defaults, and fear of defaults, on some of the individual components of those securities, such as home loans and credit card accounts. Other countries are beginning to mull the creation of domestic credit ratings agencies to challenge the dominance of the \"Big Three\", for example in Russia, where the ACRA was founded in 2016.\n\nMunicipal bonds are instruments issued by local, state, or federal governments in the United States. Until April-May 2010 Moody's and Fitch were rating municipal bonds on the separate naming/classification system which mirrored the tiers for corporate bonds. S&P abolished dual rating system in 2000.\n\nThe historical default rate for municipal bonds is lower than that of corporate bonds. The Municipal Bond Fairness Act (HR 6308), introduced September 9, 2008, included the following table giving historical bond default rates for municipal versus corporate bonds by rating and rating agency.\n\nA potential misuse of historic default statistics is to\nassume that historical average default rates represent the \"probability of default\" of debt in a particular rating category. However, [...] default rates can vary significantly from one year to the next and\nthe observed rate for any given year can vary significantly from the average. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14661380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14661380", "title": "Cantares Mexicanos", "text": "Cantares Mexicanos\n\nThe Cantares Mexicanos is the name given to a manuscript collection of Nahuatl songs or poems recorded in the 16th century. The 91 songs of the \"Cantares\" form the largest Nahuatl song collection, containing over half of all known traditional Nahuatl songs. It is currently located in the National Library of Mexico in Mexico City. A description is found in the census of prose manuscripts in the native tradition in the \"Handbook of Middle American Indians\".\n\nA Spanish edition and translation of much of the manuscript was given by the great Mexican scholar, Ángel María Garibay Kintana, in the second and third volumes of his \"Poesía náhuatl\" (1965, 1968). It was not until Miguel León-Portilla edited a two-volume Spanish translation of the codex, published by the Universidad Nacional Autonóma de México, that entire \"Cantares\" was rendered in Spanish. \n\nA complete paleographic transcription and English translation of the \"Cantares\" was published in 1985 by John Bierhorst as \"Cantares Mexicanos: Songs of the Aztecs\", as well as a dictionary and concordance. Although Bierhorst's transcription was appreciated by scholars for its accuracy and faithfulness to the original manuscript, his translations were criticized as misleading and colored by his view that the \"Cantares\" are \"ghost songs\", part of a colonial revitalization movement parallel to the ghost dances of the Plains Indians. David Bowles, in his translations of selected poems from the \"Cantares\" and other Mesoamerican codices, agrees with León-Portilla and Garibay that the songs are part of a long aesthetic and philosophical tradition predating the Conquest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48429784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48429784", "title": "Carlos Manuel de Céspedes Municipal Museum", "text": "Carlos Manuel de Céspedes Municipal Museum\n\nCarlos Manuel de Céspedes Municipal Museum is a museum located in the 17th street in Carlos Manuel de Céspedes, Cuba. It was established on 30 December 1982.\n\nThe museum holds collections on history and weaponry.\n\n"}
{"id": "11928878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11928878", "title": "Cook and Enjoy It", "text": "Cook and Enjoy It\n\nCook and Enjoy It is the English version of the original Afrikaans cookbook, \"Kook en Geniet\", which became known as the definitive cookbook representing authentic South African food culture and heritage. \"Kook en Geniet\" was originally published by S.J.A. de Villiers in 1951 in her private capacity after South African publishers expressed disinterest.\n\n\"Cook and Enjoy It\" was published by the Central News Agency in 1961, and from 1972 onwards by Human & Rousseau when the Central News Agency withdrew from publishing.\n\nIn 1990 Human & Rousseau obtained the rights to the production and marketing of the Afrikaans edition, resulting in a completely revised edition in 1992 with a new appearance for both the Afrikaans and English versions. The new edition attempted to retain the character of the original book's more than 700 recipes and basic cooking principles, having incorporated the use of modern kitchen appliances such as microwaves and food processors in many recipes.\n\nFor the revised 1992 edition, some recipes were newly-tested and rewritten in what was perceived to be an easy-to-follow style. Although a few recipes were edited and replaced, the intention was to retain the spirit and essence of Ina de Villiers's great South African classic.\n\nIn 2009 Human & Rousseau published a new, updated and revised edition of the book. Eunice van der Berg, a daughter of the author, was in charge of the whole process of revitalizing the book. This edition returned to a format more in line with the original edition, but also incorporated a modern approach and feel. Amongst the changes was a truncated title for the English edition: \"Cook and Enjoy\".\n\nS.J.A de Villiers died on 20 September 2010, at the age of 91.\n\nIn 2005 it was estimated that over half a million Afrikaans copies had been sold. At the time of the author's death, sales in both languages far exceeded a million copies, making it the most successful South African cookbook ever.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "825633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=825633", "title": "Drekavac", "text": "Drekavac\n\nDrekavac (Cyrillic: дрекавац, , literally \"the screamer\" or \"the yeller\"), also called drekalo, krekavac, zdrekavac or zrikavac, is a mythical creature in South Slavic mythology. The name is derived from the adjective \"drečati\" (Cyrillic: дречати) as meaning \"yelling\".\n\nIn South Slavic mythology it is described as furry humanoid forest demon bearing long claws on the front limbs.\n\nIn later folk tales this creature has been variously described:\n\nA modern description of a supposed drekavac describes it as a canine creature similar to a dog or some kind of bird.\n\nThe drekavac was originally thought to have come from the souls of sinful men, or from children who died unbaptised.\n\nIt was popularly believed to be visible only at night, especially during the twelve days of Christmas (called \"unbaptised days\" in Serbo-Croatian) and in early spring, when other demons and mythical creatures were believed to be more active. When assuming the form of a child, it predicts someone's death, while in its animal form, it predicts cattle disease. The drekavac is believed to avoid dogs and bright light. Also, it is believed that if the shadow of drekavac falls upon some person then that person will turn sick and die.\n\nThough the creature is used in precautionary tales for children, there are adults who still believe in its existence. According to the guide of a reporter of \"Duga\" magazine, numerous villagers on the mountain of Zlatibor report seeing it, and many inhabitants claim to have heard it.\n\nSome modern sightings happened:\n\n\nDrekavac is rarely depicted in video and roleplaying games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44058714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44058714", "title": "East Asia Image Collection", "text": "East Asia Image Collection\n\nThe East Asia Image Collection (EAIC) is an open-access digital repository of images from all areas of the history of the Empire of Japan. It is curated by the Digital Scholarship Services of Lafayette College under the direction of Paul Barclay. Rare materials include prewar picture postcards, high-quality commercial prints, and colonial era picture books.\n\n"}
{"id": "262092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262092", "title": "Edward Arber", "text": "Edward Arber\n\nEdward Arber (4 December 1836 – 23 November 1912) was an English scholar, writer, and editor. \n\nArber was born in London. From 1854 he 1878 he worked as a clerk in the Admiralty, and began evening classes at King's College London in 1858. From 1878 to 1881 he studied English literature, under H. Morley, at University College London; and from 1881 to 1894 he was professor of English at Mason College (which later became Birmingham University). From 1894 he lived in London as emeritus professor, being also a fellow of King's College London. In 1905 he received the honorary degree of D. Litt. from the University of Oxford. He married in 1869, and had two sons, one of whom, E. A. N. Arber, became demonstrator in paleobotany at the University of Cambridge.\n\nAs a scholarly editor, Arber made notable contributions to English literature. His name is associated particularly with the series of \"English Reprints\" (1868–1871), by which an accurate text of the works of many English authors, formerly only accessible in more expensive editions, was placed within reach of the general public. Among the thirty volumes of the series were Stephen Gosson's \"School of Abuse\", Roger Ascham's \"Toxophilus\", \"Tottel's Miscellany\", and Robert Naunton's \"Fragmenta Regalia\". It was followed by the \"English Scholar's Library\" (16 volumes) which included the \"Works\" (1884) of Captain John Smith, governor of Virginia, and the \"Poems\" (1882) of Richard Barnfield.\n\nIn his \"English Garner\" (8 vols. 1877-1890) he collected rare old tracts and poems; in 1899-1901 he issued \"British Anthologies\", and in 1907 began a series called \"A Christian Library\". He was also the sole editor of two vast English bibliographies: \"A Transcript of the Registers of the Stationers' Company\", 1553-1640 (1875–1894), and \"The Term Catalogues\", 1668-1709/11.\n\n"}
{"id": "2532402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2532402", "title": "Elseworlds 80-Page Giant", "text": "Elseworlds 80-Page Giant\n\nElseworlds 80-Page Giant is an 80-page collection of \"Elseworlds\" stories published by DC Comics. The collection was withdrawn and pulped after DC became concerned about a scene in one of the stories.\n\nIt included the stories \"\"Superman Jr. Is No More!\", featuring the Super-Sons, and \"Letitia Lerner, Superman's Babysitter\"\", among others. However, DC Comics President Paul Levitz deemed the Letitia Lerner story inappropriate (for featuring scenes depicting the baby Superman in a microwave, among others) and ordered the press run halted and the printed issues destroyed. However, around 2,000 copies of the issue had already been shipped to the UK. Although DC attempted to recall these copies, they quickly became a highly sought after collector's item (see Recalled comics for more pulped, recalled, and erroneous comics), and estimates of available copies range between 700 and 2,000.\n\nThe Letitia Lerner story earned two Eisner Awards, however, and was later republished in the pages of \"Bizarro Comics\" (a collection originally devised as a vehicle to showcase the feature).\n\nThe Super-Sons story was republished in \"Batman/Superman: Saga of the Super Sons\".\n\nThe following stories were included:\n\nThe entire issue was reprinted as DC Comics Presents: Elseworlds 100-Page Spectacular #1 (indicia title: DC Comics Presents: Elseworlds 80-Page Giant #1) with a cover date of January 2012 and a cover price of $7.99 US. It went on sale December 28, 2011.\n\nThe 2012 reissue included one story not included in the original 1999 edition: \"The Berlin Batman\" by Paul Pope (story and art), a tale of a Jewish Batman in 1939 Berlin. This story originally appeared in The Batman Chronicles #11, winter 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "1994378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1994378", "title": "Factiva", "text": "Factiva\n\nFactiva is a business information and research tool owned by Dow Jones & Company. Factiva aggregates content from both licensed and free sources, and provides organizations with search, alerting, dissemination, and other information management capabilities. Factiva products provide access to more than 32,000 sources (such as newspapers, journals, magazines, television and radio transcripts, photos, etc.) from nearly every country worldwide in 28 languages, including more than 600 continuously updated newswires.\n\nThe company was founded as a joint-venture between Reuters and Dow Jones & Company in May 1999 under the Dow Jones Reuters Business Interactive name, and renamed Factiva six months later. Timothy M. Andrews, a longtime Dow Jones executive, was founding president and chief executive of the venture.\n\nMr. Andrews was succeeded by Clare Hart in January 2000, another longtime Dow Jones executive, who was serving as Factiva’s vice president and director of global sales.\n\nIt developed modules with Microsoft, Oracle Corp., IBM and Yahoo! . Factiva has also partnered with EuroSpider, Comintelli, PeopleSoft, MediaMap, Biz360, ChoicePoint, BTRadianz, AtHoc, and Reuters. Factiva has also been included as of March 2003 in Microsoft's Office 2003 program as one of the News research options within the Research Pane.\n\nIn 2005, Factiva acquired two private companies: London-based 2B Reputation Intelligence Ltd. and Denver, Colorado-based taxonomy services and software firm, Synapse, the Knowledge Link Corporation. 2B was a technology and consulting business, specializing in media monitoring and reputation management. Synapse provided taxonomy management software, pre-built taxonomies and taxonomy-building and indexing services.\n\nThis acquisition brought with it Synaptica, the taxonomy management software tool developed by Synapse, and Taxonomy Warehouse, a website developed by Synapse. Both Synaptica and Taxonomy Warehouse were developed by Factiva after the acquisition and are now owned by Dow Jones.\n\nIn 2006, Reuters sold its 50 percent share of Factiva to Dow Jones. Factiva was integrated into the Enterprise Media Group within Dow Jones. Clare Hart was the executive vice president of this operating group.\n\nIn 2007, Factiva was included as a Dow Jones company sold to Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.\nFactiva provides searching by free-text, as well as region, subject, author, industry and company metadata. Searches can be further filtered by publication, language and date range.\n\nFactiva offers a number of enterprise integration options, including a fully comprehensive web services API, the Factiva Developers Kit. This toolkit allows organisations to embed Factiva content and services within enterprise workflow applications.\n\nIn 2008 Dow Jones launched the website Synaptica Central to highlight the Synaptica tool and to discuss controlled vocabularies and semantic technologies etc.\n\nIn 2012, Dow Jones announced a new search platform for its digital network based on technology licensed from MarkLogic® Corporation.\n\nFactiva global competitors include D&B, InsideView, LexisNexis, NewsEdge, Semantic Visions, LexisNexis Corporate Affiliations, Salesgenie.com, Zoominfo and ISI Emerging Markets.\n\nThere are local competitors, specialized in European and Asian languages, with better coverage in some geographies (French-speaking countries, Russian-speaking countries, Chinese-speaking countries...)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30699727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30699727", "title": "Flora Malesiana", "text": "Flora Malesiana\n\nFlora Malesiana is a multi-volume flora describing the vascular plants of Malesia (the biogeographical region consisting of Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei, the Philippines, and Papua New Guinea), published by the National Herbarium of the Netherlands since 1950. It currently consists of 204 full treatments, covering about 20% of a total of approximately 40,000 species.\n\n\"Flora Malesiana\" is divided into two main series: \"I. Seed plants\" and \"II. Pteridophytes\". Later volumes include CD-ROMs with additional multimedia contents such as interactive keys.\n\nCurrently, the following volumes have been published in Series I. Seed Plants:\n\nSeries II. Pteridophytes consists of:\n\nSeveral taxonomic treatments have been published by ETI Bioinformatics on CD-ROM. These treatments have various multimedia features such as interactive keys, many images, and literature databases. Currently, the following treatments have been published on CD-ROM:\n\nIn 2010 an initiative was taken to make all of the contents of \"Flora Malesiana\" available though a website, as a so-called e-flora (the 'e' standing for 'electronic' or 'enhanced'). This initiative was taken because (1) the overall progress of Flora Malesiana in terms of the number of species covered is too slow (about 80% of all species in Malesia still need to be treated) to make a timely contribution towards sustainability and conservation, and (2) several volumes of Flora Malesiana are out-of-print.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6643997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6643997", "title": "Foundations of Economic Analysis", "text": "Foundations of Economic Analysis\n\nFoundations of Economic Analysis is a book by Paul A. Samuelson published in 1947 (Enlarged ed., 1983) by Harvard University Press. It is based on Samuelson's 1941 doctoral dissertation at Harvard University. The book sought to demonstrate a common mathematical structure underlying multiple branches of economics from two basic principles: maximizing behavior of agents (such as of utility by consumers and profits by firms) and stability of equilibrium as to economic systems (such as markets or economies). Among other contributions, it advanced the theory of index numbers and generalized welfare economics. It is especially known for definitively stating and formalizing qualitative and quantitative versions of the \"comparative statics\" method for calculating how a change in any parameter (say, a change in tax rates) affects an economic system. One of its key insights about comparative statics, called the correspondence principle, states that stability of equilibrium implies testable predictions about how the equilibrium changes when parameters are changed.\n\nThe front page quotes the motto of J. Willard Gibbs: \"Mathematics is a language.\" The book begins with this statement:\n\nIts other stated purpose (p. 3) is to show how \"operationally meaningful theorems\" can be described with a small number of \"analogous methods\". Thus, \"a general theory of economic theories\" (1983, p. xxvi).\n\nThe body of the book is 353 pages. Topics and applications covered (all in terms of theory) include the following.\n\nSamuelson's \"Foundations\" demonstrates that economic analysis benefits from the parsimonious and fruitful language of mathematics. In its original version as a dissertation submitted to the David A. Wells Prize Committee of Harvard University in 1941, it was subtitled \"The Observational Significance of Economic Theory\" (p. ix).\n\nOne unifying theme, on the striking formal similarities of analysis in seemingly diverse fields, occurred only in the course of writing on them—from consumer's behavior and production economics of the firm to international trade, business cycles, and income analysis. It dawned on the author that he was prodigal \"in proving essentially the same theorems\" over and over. His failure of initial intuition, so he suggests, might be less surprising in light of the few economic writings then extant concerned with formulating \"meaningful theorems\" – hypotheses \"about\" empirical data—that could conceivably be refuted \"by\" empirical data (pp. 3–5).\n\nSamuelson (pp. 5, 21–24) finds three sources of meaningful theorems sufficient to illuminate his purposes:\nPart I conjectures that meaningful theorems for economic units and for their respective aggregates are almost all derivable from general conditions of equilibrium. The equilibrium conditions can in turn be stated as \"maximization conditions\". So, meaningful theorems reduce to maximization conditions. The calculus of the relations is at a high level of abstraction but with the advantage of numerous applications. Finally, Part I illustrates that there \"are\" meaningful theorems in economics, which apply to diverse fields.\n\nPart II concentrates on aggregation of economic units into equilibrium of the system. But the symmetry conditions required for direct maximization of the \"system\", whether a market or even the simplest model of the business cycle, are lacking, in contrast to an economic \"unit\" or its corresponding aggregate. What can be hypothetically derived (or rejected in some cases) is a \"stable\" equilibrium of the system. (This is an equilibrium of the system such that, if a variable disturbs equilibrium, the system converges to equilibrium.) \"Stability of equilibrium\" is proposed as the principal source of operationally meaningful theorems for economic systems (p. 5).\n\nAnalogies from physics (and biology) are conspicuous, such as the Le Chatelier principle and correspondence principle, but they are given a nontrivially generalized formulation and application. They and mathematical constructions, such as Lagrangian multipliers, are given an operational economic interpretation. The generalized \"Le Chatelier principle\" is for a maximum condition of equilibrium: where all unknowns of the function are independently variable, auxiliary constraints (\"just-binding\" in leaving initial equilibrium unchanged) reduce the response to a parameter change. Thus, factor-demand and commodity-supply elasticities are hypothesized to be lower in the short run than in the long run because of the fixed-cost constraint in the short run. In the course of analysis, \"comparative statics\", changes in equilibrium of the system that result from a parameter change of the system, is formalized and most clearly stated (Kehoe, 1987, p. 517). The \"correspondence principle\" is that the \"stability\" of equilibrium for a system (such as a market or economy) implies meaningful theorems in comparative statics. Alternatively, the hypothesis of stability imposes directional restrictions on the movement of the system (Samuelson, pp. 258, 5). The correspondence is between comparative statics and the dynamics implied by stability of equilibrium.\n\nChapter VIII on welfare economics is described as an attempt \"to give a brief but fairly complete survey of the whole field of welfare economics\" (p. 252). This Samuelson does in 51 pages, including his exposition of what became known as the Bergson-Samuelson social welfare function. Theorems derived in welfare economics, he notes, are deductive implications of assumptions that are not refutable, thus not meaningful in a certain sense. Still, the social welfare function can represent any index (cardinal or not) of the economic measures of any logically possible ethical belief system that is required to order any (hypothetically) feasible social configurations as \"better than\", \"worse than\", or \"indifferent to\" each other (p. 221). It also definitively elucidates the notion of Pareto optimality and the \"germ of truth in Adam Smith's doctrine of the invisible hand\" (Samuelson, 1983, p. xxiv; Fischer, 1987, p. 236).\n\nThe final pages of the book (pp. 354–55) outline possible directions analytical methods might take, including for example models that show how:\nSamuelson closes by expressing hope in the future use of \"comparative dynamics\" to:\n\nThere are two mathematical appendices totalling 83 pages. The first gathers and develops \"very briefly\" and \"without striving for rigor\" results on maximization conditions and quadratic forms used in the book and not conveniently collected elsewhere (p. 389). The other is on difference equations (\"for the dynamic economist\") and other functional equations.\n\nThe 1983 enlarged edition includes an additional 12-page \"Introduction\" and a new 145-page appendix with some post-1947 developments in analytical economics, including how conclusions of the book are affected by them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12263722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12263722", "title": "Gezelligheid", "text": "Gezelligheid\n\nGezelligheid () is a Dutch word which, depending on context, can be translated as 'conviviality', 'coziness', 'fun'. It is often used to describe a social and relaxed situation. It can also indicate belonging, time spent with loved ones, catching up with an old friend or just the general togetherness that gives people a warm feeling.\n\nA common trait to all descriptions of \"gezelligheid\" is a general and abstract sensation of individual well-being that one typically shares with others. All descriptions involve a positive atmosphere, \"flow\" or vibe that colours the individual personal experience in a favorable way and in one way or another corresponds to social contexts.\n\nBeing a vague, abstract notion, the word is considered by some to be an example of untranslatability, and one of their hardest words to translate to English. Some consider the word to encompass the heart of Dutch culture.\n\nThe word derives from \"gezel\" which means 'companion' or 'friend'. During the Middle Ages a \"gezel\" was also the Dutch term for a 'journeyman', which in the Dutch guild system formed a group around a single master craftsman; hence the added meaning of 'belonging'.\n\n\"Gezellig\" in English language could be used in places or with a party of people (one or more) that are 'easy to relax into' and 'heartening'.\n\nThe adjective \"gezellig\" can be used in a wide variety of situations:\n\n\"Gezellig\" can also be used as an exclamation, which can either carry the meanings described above or be used sarcastically or ironically or to express enthusiasm for an upcoming event such as one of the above.\n\nThe antonym to \"gezellig\" is \"ongezellig\", which is used to describe places and situations that are uninviting, lacking in warmth or atmosphere, a person who is cold, distant, unsociable, unwilling to engage in a social situation.\n\n"}
{"id": "32788765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32788765", "title": "Gran Enciclopedia de Andalucía", "text": "Gran Enciclopedia de Andalucía\n\nGran Enciclopedia de Andalucía is a Spanish encyclopedia focused in Andalusia region. It has 10 volumes, and it was coordinated by José María Javierre and Manuel Ángel Vázquez Medel.\n\nJunta de Andalucía bought the encyclopedia in 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "48423180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48423180", "title": "Guanajay Municipal Museum", "text": "Guanajay Municipal Museum\n\nGuanajay Municipal Museum is a museum located in the 61st street in Guanajay, Cuba. It was established as a museum on 13 February 1981.\n\nThe museum holds collections on history and weaponry.\n\n"}
{"id": "9863883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9863883", "title": "Heiðr", "text": "Heiðr\n\nHeiðr (from the Old Norse adjective meaning \"bright\" or the noun meaning \"honour\") is the seeress and witch (\"völva\") mentioned in one stanza of \"Völuspá\", related to the story of the Æsir-Vanir war:\n\nThe general assumption is that Heiðr is an alternate name for the witch Gullveig, mentioned in the previous stanza, who, in turn, is often thought to be a hypostasis of Freyja. But it is sometimes argued that the \"völva\" who recites the poem refers to herself.\n\nHeiðr is also a seeress in several works such as \"Landnámabók\" , \"Hrólfs saga kraka\" and \"Örvar-Odds saga\" , where she predicts Örvar's death.\n\nHeiðr is lastly a child of the giant Hrímnir according to \"Völuspá hin skamma\" (\"Hyndluljóð\", ).\n"}
{"id": "36982629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36982629", "title": "Japanese Pharmacopoeia", "text": "Japanese Pharmacopoeia\n\nThe is the official pharmacopoeia of Japan. It is published by the under the authority of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. The first edition was published on 25 June, 1886, with revisions being issued from time to time. The current revision is number 17, issued electronically in English language on 7 March 2016. \n\n"}
{"id": "6100800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6100800", "title": "Jesse Sheidlower", "text": "Jesse Sheidlower\n\nJesse Sheidlower (born August 5, 1968) is an author and editor specializing in English and lexicography. From 1999 until 2005 he was Principal North American Editor at the Oxford English Dictionary; then he was editor-at-large focusing on North American usage. He left the OED in 2013.\n\nSheidlower received an undergraduate degree in English from the University of Chicago.\n\nAlthough not a computer programmer by training, Sheidlower introduced Perl to the North American offices of Oxford University Press and developed tools for data manipulation when no programmers were available. He is also one of the core developers of Catalyst, a popular Perl web development framework.\n\n"}
{"id": "479914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479914", "title": "Jiyun", "text": "Jiyun\n\nThe Jiyun (Chi-yun; ) is a Chinese rime dictionary published in 1037 during the Song Dynasty. The chief editor Ding Du (丁度) and others expanded and revised the \"Guangyun\". It is possible, according to Teng and Biggerstaff (1971:147), that Sima Guang completed the text in 1067. The \"Jiyun\" has 53,525 character entries (Teng & Biggerstaff, 1971: 147), approximately twice as many as the \"Guangyun\", and likewise has 206 rime groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13451943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13451943", "title": "Juan Manuel Blanes Museum", "text": "Juan Manuel Blanes Museum\n\nJuan Manuel Blanes Municipal Museum of the Arts () is the name of a municipal museum in Prado, Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\nThe Juan Manuel Blanes Municipal Museum of the Arts is located at Avenida Millan 4015, in the neighbourhood of Prado, Montevideo, in a Palladian villa designated a National Heritage Site in 1975. The villa was originally designed in 1870 by Juan Alberto Capurro, an engineer trained at the Turin Polytechnic, for the then-owner Dr. Juan Battista Raffo. The surrounding garden reveals elements of French landscape design. The municipality acquired the villa in 1929, when it commissioned the architect Eugenio Baroffio to renovate and expand the building. Baroffio maintained the eclecticism of the original design, leaving the facade intact. The museum was founded in 1930, coinciding with the 100th anniversary of the first Constitution of Uruguay, and named after the patriotic Uruguayan artist, Juan Manuel Blanes.\n\nThis property has a big park full of ancient trees, on the shore of the Miguelete Creek.\n\nBehind the museum can be found the Japanese Garden.\nThe museum displays Uruguayan art ranging from the nation's founding to the present day, including the works of Juan Manuel Blanes, Pedro Figari, Rafael Barradas, José Cúneo, and Carlos González.\n\nThe museum is open from noon to 5:45 p.m. every day from Tuesday through Sunday. It does not charge admission.\n\n"}
{"id": "43314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43314", "title": "List of free and open-source software packages", "text": "List of free and open-source software packages\n\nThis is a list of free and open-source software packages, computer software licensed under free software licenses and open-source licenses. Software that fits the Free Software Definition may be more appropriately called free software; the GNU project in particular objects to their works being referred to as open-source. For more information about the philosophical background for open-source software, see free software movement and Open Source Initiative. However, nearly all software meeting the Free Software Definition also meets \"the Open Source Definition\" and vice versa. A small fraction of the software that meets either definition is listed here.\n\nSome of the open-source applications are also the basis of commercial products, shown in the List of commercial open-source applications and services.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBe advised that available distributions of these systems can contain, or offer to build and install, added software that is neither free software nor open-source.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16925241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925241", "title": "Malachite Room of the Winter Palace", "text": "Malachite Room of the Winter Palace\n\nThe Malachite Room of the Winter Palace, St Petersburg, was designed in the late 1830s by the architect Alexander Briullov for use a formal reception room for the Empress Alexandra Fyodorovna, wife of Nicholas I. It replaced the Jasper Room, which was destroyed in the fire of 1837.\n\nThe room obtains its name from the use of malachite for its columns and fireplace. This large salon contains a large malachite urn as well as furniture from the workshops of Peter Gambs (1802-1871), son of the famous furniture maker Heinrich Gambs, which were rescued from the 1837 fire.\n\nDuring the Tsarist era, the Malachite Room, which links the state rooms to the private rooms, served as not only a state drawing room of the Tsaritsa, but also as a gathering place for the Imperial family before and during official functions. It was here that Romanov brides were traditionally dressed by the Tsarina before proceeding from the adjoining Arabian Hall to their weddings in the Grand Church.\n\nFrom June to October 1917 this room was the seat of the Russian Provisional Government. When the palace was stormed during the night of 7 November 1917, the members of the Government were arrested in the adjoining private dining room.\n\nToday, as part of the State Hermitage Museum, this room retains its original decoration.\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "509760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509760", "title": "Mark J. Green", "text": "Mark J. Green\n\nMark Joseph Green (born March 15, 1945) is an American author, former public official, public interest lawyer and a Democratic politician from New York City. He worked with Ralph Nader from 1970–80, eventually as director of Public Citizen's Congress Watch, and was the former president of Air America Radio (2007–09). His 2001 nomination and loss to Michael Bloomberg for NYC Mayor is chronicled in the 2002 Sundance Film, \"Off the Record: The 9/11 Election\".\n\nHe published his 23rd book in May 2016, \"Bright, Infinite Future: A Generational Memoir on the Progressive Rise\" (St Martin's Press). He has co-written two bestsellers, \"Who Runs Congress?\" (1972) (co-written with James Fallows) and \"The Book On Bush\" (2004) (co-written with Eric Alterman). He has collaborated on several books with consumer advocate Ralph Nader (\"The Closed Enterprise System,\" 1972; \"Monopoly Makers,\" 1974, \"Verdicts on Lawyers,\" 1975, \"Taming the Giant Corporation,\" 1976, another recent book is \"Change for America: A Progressive Blueprint for the 44th President\", co-edited by Green and Michele Jolin, a transition policy book for President Obama, co-produced by the New Democracy Project and the Center for American Progress Action Fund). He was a Visiting Scholar at NYU College and Law School from 2002-06.\n\nHe was host of the nationally syndicated radio show, \"Both Sides Now\" from 2010 - December 2016. which was aired on 200 stations and recorded at IHeartMedia in New York City. The weekly program rotated such regular panelists as Arianna Huffington, Ron Reagan, Bob Shrum, Jonathan Alter, as well as Kellyanne Conway, Mary Matalin, David Frum, and Rich Lowry.. In February, 2017, he founded and ran the Twitter handle @ShadowingTrump, consisting of 21 leading national progressive scholars and former officials. It rose to 74,000 followers by the end of 2017.\n\nGreen was New York City Consumer Affairs Commissioner from 1990–93 and was twice elected New York City Public Advocate, in 1993 and 1997. He won Democratic primaries for the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Senate, and Mayor of New York City and in each case lost in the general election. Additionally, he has lost campaigns to be the Democratic nominee for U.S. Senate, the Democratic Nominee for New York Attorney General, and the Democratic Nominee for New York Public Advocate eight years after finishing off two terms in that position.\n\nGreen was born to a Jewish family in Brooklyn, New York. He lived in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn until he was three and then moved to Long Island, first to Elmont, New York and later Great Neck, New York. Both his parents were Republicans; his father, a lawyer and residential apartment landlord and his mother, a public-school teacher.\n\nHe graduated from Great Neck South High School in 1963. He graduated from Cornell University in 1967 and from Harvard Law School in 1970, where he was editor-in-chief of the Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review. He has one brother, realtor Stephen L. Green, founder of SLGreen Realty Corp.\n\nGreen has been married twice. His first marriage to Lynn Hinerman, whom he married while in law school, ended after eighteen months. In 1977, Green married Deni Frand, who later became the director of the New York City office of the liberal interest group People for the American Way, as well as a senior associate at AOL-Time Warner and the Citi Foundation. The couple has two children, Jonah and Jenya.\n\nIn 1967, he interned for Jacob Javits and while in law school in the early 1970s, Green was a \"Nader's Raider\" at Ralph Nader's Public Citizen where he worked on a lawsuit against the administration of Richard Nixon after the firing of Watergate special prosecutor Archibald Cox. After law school, he returned to Washington D.C. and ran the Congress Watch division of the consumer rights advocacy group Public Citizen from 1977-80.\n\nIn 1980, he returned to New York City and won the Democratic primary election to represent the East Side of Manhattan in the House of Representatives; he lost the race to Republican incumbent, Bill Green (not related). In 1981, Green, with songwriter Harry Chapin, founded the New Democracy Project, a public policy institute in New York City. He ran it for a decade. During the 1984 presidential election, he served as chief speechwriter for Democratic candidate Senator Gary Hart, who ran second in the primaries.\n\nIn 1986, Green won the Democratic nomination for the Senate against multimillionaire John Dyson, spending just $800,000 to Dyson's $6,000,000. Dyson remained on the ballot as the candidate of the Liberal Party. Green lost the general election to Republican incumbent Alfonse D'Amato who was supported by then mayor Ed Koch; Green filed a formal ethics complaint in the Senate Ethics Committee against D'Amato that resulted in the Senator being reprimanded by the United States Senate after media reports that suggested that nomination of D'Amato as a chair of the Senate Committee of Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs had been tainted by illegal financing of his campaign to the Senate.\n\nDuring his Senate campaign, Green refused to accept money from special interest groups' political action committees (PACs) - which had accounted for 25% of all campaign spending in Congressional campaigns in 1984 - denouncing PACs as \"legalized bribery.\" His opinion mirrored the stance of Common Cause, the citizens' lobby which organized to abolish PACs over fears of \"special interests\" buying votes.\n\nIn 1990, he was appointed the Consumer Affairs Commissioner of New York City by Mayor David Dinkins. In 1993, he was elected the first New York City Public Advocate, and re-elected in 1997. In that office, Green led investigations of HMOs, hospitals, and nursing homes which led to fines by the New York State Attorney General.\n\nA 1994 investigation on the Bell Regulations (\"Libby Zion Law\") to limit resident working hours and requiring physician supervision—and follow-up study prompted the New York State Department of Health to crack down on violating hospitals. He led an effort against tobacco advertising aimed at children, enacting a law banning cigarette vending machines and released a series of exposés and legal actions against tobacco advertising targeted at children—concluding that R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company was engaged in \"commercial child abuse\"—which culminated in a 1997 Federal Trade Commission decision that ended the Joe Camel ads.\n\nAs Public Advocate, Green first proposed the 311 complaint help line that Mayor Bloomberg later implemented. He wrote laws that matched small donations with multiple city funds, created the Voter Commission, upheld the legality of the Independent Budget Office, barred stores from charging women more than men for the same services, and that prohibited companies from firing female employees merely because they were victims of domestic violence. He started the City's first web site, NYC.Gov, which he later gifted to City Hall, where it is still in use.\n\nOne of his most high-profile accomplishments was a lawsuit to obtain information about racial profiling in Rudy Giuliani's police force. As Green told the \"Gotham Gazette\", \"We sued Mayor Giuliani because he was in deep denial about racial profiling. [After winning the case, we] released an investigation showing a pattern of unpunished misconduct ... [and] the rate that police with substantiated complaints are punished went from 25 percent to 75 percent.\" Green was reportedly one of the first public officials to draw attention to racial profiling by the NYPD.\n\nGreen ran for the U.S. Senate again in 1998, when D'Amato was seeking a fourth term. Green finished third in the Democratic primary behind the winner, Congressman Charles Schumer, and 1984 Democratic vice presidential nominee Geraldine Ferraro. Despite Green's personal ties to Nader, he did not support Nader's presidential campaigns.\n\nIn the 2000 campaign he praised Nader's work as a consumer advocate but endorsed Democratic nominee Al Gore, who narrowly lost the election to George W. Bush. In 2000, he assisted the successful Senate campaign of first lady Hillary Clinton, coining the phrase \"Listening Tour\" which guided the candidate through a state she hadn't previously lived in. In 2004, Green was co-chair of Senator John Kerry's presidential campaign in New York.\n\nGreen ran for Mayor of New York City and won the Democratic nomination in 2001 but lost to Michael Bloomberg 50%–48% in the closest NYC mayoral election in a century. Green had narrowly defeated Fernando Ferrer in the primary, surviving a negative contest that divided the party. The two other candidates were Council Speaker Peter Vallone and City Comptroller Alan Hevesi.\n\nThe September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks occurred on the morning of the Democratic primary and contributed to Green's loss. Also, Bloomberg spent an unprecedented $74 million in his campaign, especially on TV ads and direct mail. Rudy Giuliani, who suddenly had an extremely high popularity publicly endorsed Bloomberg.\n\n\"The Economist\" wrote, \"The billionaire businessman [Bloomberg] is usually seen as one of the post–September 11th winners (if such a word can be so used): he would probably have lost the mayoralty to Mark Green, a leftish Democrat, had the terrorist strike not happened. Yet it is also worth noting that his election probably spared New York City a turbulent period of score-settling over Rudy Giuliani's legacy.\" Chris Smith wrote in \"New York Magazine\" in 2011, \"Many old-school Democrats believe that Bloomberg's 2001 victory over Mark Green was a terrorist-provoked, money-soaked aberration.\"\n\nGreen was criticized by the Ferrer campaign for the actions of supporters in the run-off that were construed as racist, involving literature with \"New York Post\" caricatures of Ferrer and Al Sharpton distributed in white enclaves of Brooklyn and Staten Island. Green stated that he had nothing to do with the dissemination of the literature. An investigation by the district attorney of Kings County, New York, Charles J. Hynes, came to the conclusion that \"Mark Green had no knowledge of these events, and that when he learned of them, he repeatedly denounced the distribution of this literature and sought to find out who had engaged in it.\"\n\nThe incident kept Ferrer from endorsing the Democratic nominee and is thought to have diminished minority turnout in the general election which helped the Republican candidate win in an overwhelmingly Democratic city. Green wrote an article about the campaign a decade later in the 9/11 anniversary issue of \"New York Magazine\". in which he reported that Bloomberg told him in 2002 that \"I wouldn't have won\" without Ferrer's late campaign opposition to Green.\n\nGreen ran in the Democratic primary for New York State Attorney General in 2006. He faced former HUD Secretary Andrew Cuomo, former White House Staff Secretary Sean Patrick Maloney, and former lieutenant governor candidate Charles King in the primary. Green did not receive the required 25% at the state Democratic convention to earn a spot on the primary ballot and therefore had to circulate nominating petitions statewide to be on the September ballot.\n\nHe was required to submit at least 15,000 valid signatures; on July 13, he submitted more than 40,000 signatures. He held several endorsements of note, including former NYC Mayor David Dinkins, Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz, the Sierra Club, the National Organization for Women (NOW), the \"New York Times\", and the \"New York Daily News\".\n\nOn September 12, 2006, Green lost to Andrew Cuomo in his bid to secure the Democratic nomination to succeed then-Attorney General Eliot Spitzer. On the evening the results came in, he vowed to reporters that \"I won't be running for office again. But I'll continue to advocate, write and teach.\" Cuomo beat the Republican candidate, former Westchester County District Attorney Jeanine Pirro.\n\nOn February 10, 2009, Green announced that he would again run for the office of Public Advocate. His policy director was Benjamin Kallos (who later was elected to the New York City Council), with whom he worked on \"100 Ideas for a Better City\".\n\nAs one of the top two finishers in the Democratic primary, Green qualified for the September 29 runoff, but lost to City Councilmember Bill de Blasio who went on to win the mayoralty in 2013.\n\nMark J. Green has appeared on these slates:\n\nHe was a regular guest on \"Crossfire\" on CNN, and also on William F. Buckley's \"Firing Line\", \"Inside City Hall\" on NY1, and \"Hardball with Chris Matthews\" on MSNBC.\n\nOn March 6, 2007, Green's brother, New York real estate magnate Stephen L. Green, purchased majority shares in Air America Radio. Stephen served as chairman, and Mark as president. Stephen sold Air America Radio in 2009 to Charles Kireker.\n\nGreen was co-host, with Arianna Huffington, of the syndicated talk show \"7 Days in America\", which aired on the network. from 2007-2009. He was the host of \"Both Sides Now\", nationally syndicated on 200 stations and recorded at WOR710 AM in New York City; the program ended in December 2016.\n\nOn February 27, 2017, Green founded and ran the Twitter handle @ShadowingTrump [see ShadowingTrump.org]\"to daily debunk Trump and propose progressive alternatives.\" His \"Shadow Cabinet\" of 21 included such national progressive leaders as Larry Tribe as AG, Robert Reich as Economic Czar, Diane Ravitch as Education Secretary, Rashad Robinson as \"Secretary of Justice Issues, Marielena Hincapie as Immigration Secretary. It had 74,000 followers within its first 10 months, generating 54 million \"impressions\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8804587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8804587", "title": "Merriam–Webster's Dictionary of English Usage", "text": "Merriam–Webster's Dictionary of English Usage\n\nMerriam–Webster's Dictionary of English Usage is a usage dictionary published by Merriam-Webster, Inc., of Springfield, Massachusetts . It is currently available in a reprint edition (1994) or . (The 1989 edition did not include \"Merriam–\" in the title. It was added as part of the rebranding campaign to emphasize the differences between Merriam–Webster's dictionaries and dictionaries of other publishers using the generic trademark \"Webster's\".)\n\nThe book has been praised by language experts. Stan Carey at the blog \"Sentence First\" concludes that it operates \"in such a thorough and unbiased way is what elevates \"MWDEU\" so far above the ordinary. Each entry is presented in a much broader context than is typically the case in books that advise on English usage and style.\" It is critically acclaimed by the linguist Geoffrey Pullum, who calls it \"the best usage book I know of... utterly wonderful.\" It is known for its historical scholarship, analysis, use of examples, and descriptive approach. It has more than 2,300 entries, and includes more than 20,000 quotations from prominent writers.\n\nA concise version is also available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22042583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22042583", "title": "MetroLyrics", "text": "MetroLyrics\n\nMetroLyrics is a lyrics-dedicated website, founded in December 2002. The MetroLyrics database contains over 1 million songs performed by over 16,000 artists.\n\nMetroLyrics was the first lyrics-dedicated site to license licensing aggregator Gracenote Inc.'s lyrics catalogue in April 2008. Through this lyrics licensing model, lyrics copyright holders accrue royalty revenue when their work is displayed on MetroLyrics.com, which MetroLyrics recuperates by collecting money from banner advertisements on the site. Royalties are paid on all displayed lyrics and are handled through Gracenote. In January 2013, LyricFind acquired Gracenote's lyrics licensing business, merging it in with their own. MetroLyrics' licensing model is distinct, as many lyrics websites still offer content that is allegedly unlicensed and copyright infringing.\n\nMetroLyrics was acquired by CBS Interactive in October 2011.\n"}
{"id": "7914076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7914076", "title": "Names of European cities in different languages (U–Z)", "text": "Names of European cities in different languages (U–Z)\n"}
{"id": "42881069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42881069", "title": "Novabench", "text": "Novabench\n\nNovabench is a freeware computer benchmarking utility for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X. The program tests the performance of computer components and assigns proprietary scores, with higher scores indicating better performance. An online repository is available where submitted scores can be compared. A user can create an account to keep all of their submitted scores in one place. The tool has been noted for its speed and simplicity.\n\nMicrosoft Windows\nMac OS X\n\nNovabench does not currently take advantage of AMD CrossFireX or SLI during graphics testing on Windows, although dual-GPU testing does work on Mac. It also does not currently test secondary, 3rd, 4th, etc. hard drives; it only tests the system (primary) drive. Windows XP and below are no longer supported with version 3.0.4, and in Novabench 4.0, only Windows 7 and up will be supported.\n\n"}
{"id": "46798290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46798290", "title": "Richard Wetzel", "text": "Richard Wetzel\n\nRichard Wetzel (born October 23, 1943) is an American artist. He is best known for his oil paintings but also has exhibited collages and sculpture. In 1969 and 1970, Wetzel exhibited with the Chicago Imagists, a grouping of Chicago artists who were ascendant in the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nBorn in Elmhurst, Illinois, Wetzel was the second of three boys (with brothers David and Douglas). Both Wetzel's parents were artists. Wetzel's father, Wilbert, was a photoengraver. His mother, Elfreda, was a commercial artist. The family eventually settled in Arlington Heights, Illinois.\n\nWetzel's interest in art developed at an early age, but he was also a three-time gymnastics individual medalist (pommel horse) on the Arlington High School (AHS) team that won two successive Illinois State Gymnastics Championships: 1958–59 and 1959–60.\n\nAt age 17, two significant events influenced Wetzel's future direction. The first was the arrival of artist James F. Walker as an art teacher at Arlington High School. Walker arrived from his teaching position at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago (SAIC) during Wetzel's senior year, 1960–61. Walker was an artist who created mixed-media surrealist images. The second event was a trip to New York City to view an exhibition of the works of Max Ernst at the Museum of Modern Art. The influence of these two artists would shape Wetzel's vision for decades to come.\n\nAfter graduation, Wetzel enrolled in SAIC in fall 1961, where he studied with Vera Berdich, Whitney Halstead, Thomas Kapsalis, and Sonia Sheridan. While at SAIC, Wetzel met classmate and fellow artist Janice Anderson. They married after Janice's graduation in 1965.\n\nPrior to his marriage, Wetzel moved to Chicago's Old Town, a neighborhood known for the arts, its bars and nightlife, and 1960s hippie counterculture. In 1962, Wetzel opened the Sedgwick Street Gallery with AHS classmate Dennis Rice on North Avenue at the Sedgwick L Stop. The gallery was located up the street from the Mole Hole, home of the counterculture newspaper the \"Chicago Seed\", and walking distance from Cabrini Green, a low-income, high-rise complex known for high poverty and crime. At the gallery, Wetzel and Rice exhibited the works of Karl Wirsum, Barry Malloy, Luis Ortiz, William Nichols, Bill Arsenault, Ed Paschke, and Wetzel's mentor, James F. Walker, as well as his own work.\n\nIn 1968, Wetzel graduated with honors from SAIC with a BFA. The Institute awarded him a Foreign Travelling Fellowship, which he would later use to travel and study abroad. After graduating from SAIC, he continued his studies at Northern Illinois University, earning an MA in 1969. In the fall of 1970, Richard and his wife, Janice, traveled throughout Europe for eight months on his fellowship, studying art and architecture. After returning to Chicago, they both assumed teaching positions in city and suburban art departments, where they continued teaching until retirement, Janice in the Chicago Public Schools, and Richard in Niles Township High Schools. They lived, worked, and traveled together until Janice's death in 2014.\n\nThe Chicago Imagists were a group of graduates and students of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, all in their 20s, who came to be regarded in the art world as “the Chicago vanguard.” Their work was exhibited at the Hyde Park Art Center (HPAC) in nine exhibitions between 1966 and 1972. The nine shows at HPAC were aligned into three groups: \"The Hairy Who\", \"The Nonplussed Some\", and \"The False Image\". According to Robin Dluzen, the Imagists were “mainly white but with an unusually large percentage of female members … 7 women amongst 11 men …”\n\nThese events were organized by Don Baum, exhibitions director at HPAC, and a participant in one of the nine shows. Baum would later organize two exhibitions for the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago. The first of these, \"Don Baum Says Chicago Needs Famous Artists\", included works by Wetzel. The second show, \"Made in Chicago\", did not. \"Made in Chicago\" traveled on to the São Paulo Bienal in Brazil and also to the Smithsonian Museum in Washington.\n\nJames Yood offered a concise definition of the Imagist aesthetic:\n\n… funky and irreverent subject matter (often with sexual and/or violent overtones, with imaginative fantasies dealing with the figure under extreme physical or psychological stress), a predilection for narrative themes drawn from vernacular sources, a decided openness to influences from self-taught artists and from sources outside the mainstream of Western art history, a taste for garish and obsessively busy small-scale compositions driven by a concern for symmetry and a linear approach to the figure, surrealistic whimsy and ironic and caustic humor undercutting the “serious” status of the art object, high-keyed color, scrupulous and fastidious craftspersonship [sic] tending toward the suppression of evidence of the experiential residue of the artist's hand, and iconic independence and idiosyncratic mannerism of the most manic sort. \n\nFranz Schultze in \"ARTNews\" 1971 described a cliquishness in the various groups.\n\nThey cluster in small groups and—rather like the secret kids' clubs that flourished in the days of radio serials and the Sunday funnies—they even assume corporate names, like The Hairy Who ([Jim] Nutt, [Gladys] Nilsson, [Karl] Wirsum, Suellen Rocca, Art Green, James Falconer), The Nonplussed Some ([Ed] Flood, [Ed] Paschke, Sara Canright, Richard Wetzel, Don Baum), the False Image (Roger Brown, Phil Hanson, Christina Ramberg, Eleanor Dube).\n\nIn fact, as Schultze noted in 1969, Imagist artist Robert Guinan participated in the \"Nonplussed Some\" show but was later replaced by Don Baum in \"Nonplussed Some Some Mor\"e. Shultze's omission of Guinan in 1971 points to a question of who is in the Imagist roster.\n\nAlan Artner, \"Chicago Tribune\" art critic, commented on the 2000 Imagist show at the Chicago Cultural Center:\n\nSome artists in “Jumpin' Backflash”—Robert Guinan, Richard Wetzel—didn't fit the developing definitions of the style and were passed by almost from the beginning …\n\n… That few of the painters beyond Ed Paschke and Jim Nutt ever took their art further perhaps says something about Imagism and arrested development.\n\nPeter Schjeldahl in \"Art in America\" observed that from the first HPAC exhibition in 1966 the alignments among the artists morphed almost continually.\n\nThe groups miscegenated briskly in a series of Hyde Park shows that, with themes and costumes, were also theatrical events: “Marriage Chicago Style,” for instance, solemnized the joining of members of the Who and the Some, plus Barbara Rossi.\n\nJames Yood in 2000 observed, “Many of these artists did not feel at the time, nor do some admit today, that they are particularly linked to one another …” Wetzel's participation with the Imagists ended in 1970.\n\nWetzel did show his work in the 2000 group exhibition at the Chicago Cultural Center, \"Jumpin' Backflash: Original Imagist Artwork, 1966–1969\". This exhibit marked the first time that the works of all fifteen artists of the nine HPAC shows were included in one exhibition. Wetzel was quoted in the program notes for \"Jumpin' Backflash\":\n\n… the current exhibit is the first time that ALL the “Imagist” artists have been included, in person or in print … it should present a rare opportunity to read the works instead of the words.\n\nA documentary film about the Imagists was released in 2014, \"Hairy Who and the Chicago Imagists\".\n\nFrom 1962, Wetzel has exhibited his work in both solo and group exhibitions. Sue Taylor in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" observed in 1985 that\n\nLike others associated with [The Chicago Imagists], now internationally renowned, Wetzel has intensified the individual aspects of his style in the 15 years since the inception of Imagism.\n\nWetzel continues to live and work in Chicago.\n\nWhitney Halstead, \"Artforum\", 1968\n\nThe juxtapositions typical of collage are blended to achieve a lyrical (and here, dreamlike) mood in Richard Wetzel's transfer images on glass. \"Black Eyed Susan's Circle\" typifies his achievement in synthesizing disparate elements in a quiet, understated tone.\n\nFranz Schultze, \"Chicago Daily News\", 1968\n\nWetzel makes dreamy, low-key collages with ectoplasmic faces … \n\nHarold Haydon, \"Chicago Sun-Times\", 1969\n\n… Wetzel's large and ingenious photo collages … \n\nFranz Schultze, \"Chicago Daily News\", 1969\n\n… Wetzel's complicated surrealist symbolism …\n\nHarold Haydon, \"Chicago Sun-Times\", 1975\n\nWith precision and subtlety, [Wetzel] draws organic and vegetable forms at about the scale of cabbages and squashes, while emphasizing the prehensile aspect of vegetation. Tendrils and claws reach out to grapple in these imagined encounters in the land of chlorophyll. Just as vegetable claws resemble beatle [sic] and crab pincers in Wetzel's drawings, so flying seeds acquire monarch-butterfly and other insect wings. These drawings transmit the essence of a quiet, desperate struggle from existence.\n\nHarold Haydon, \"Chicago Sun-Times\", 1981\n\nRapacious flowers and other vegetation, painted large—as if from an insect's point of view—loom large against dark pastoral landscapes in Richard D. Wetzel's exhibition … \n\nIn Wetzel's world, precisely painted plants, fierce in fang and claw, can be as prosaic as green beans or as fantastic as root systems. Their victims usually are eggs, whose fate is to be seized and devoured. Only one escapes, in the painting titled “Deliverance,” borne aloft by a monarch butterfly and by its coloration, obviously an egg of the monarch clan. \n\nIf all this imagery is taken as a paradigm of earthly existence, Wetzel's view must be quite on the mark.\n\nJeff Abell, \"New Art Examiner\", 1984\n\nThe paintings make use of intensely bright colors, most often to delineate shapes against the generally darker background colors. For example, a strange claw-like shape is outlined in a very hot yellow-orange against a purple background, so that the figure glows against its ground. \n\nSue Taylor, \"Chicago Sun-Times\", 1985\n\n… the brilliant radiating colors and mysterious, iconic images that have long distinguished Wetzel's art are still his major concerns. Each image is set against a monochromatic background of the deepest blue, purple or green, which may be read as an infinite spatial recession, indicative of the vague realm of imagination.\n\nSue Taylor, \"Chicago Sun-Times\", 1985\n\nWhat is unique about his current paintings is their powerfully emotive quality, for they operate largely on the level of feeling. The forms he uses, for all their rich ambiguity, are direct, simplified, and distilled, and their suggestiveness is of a kind everyone can understand—intuitively …\n\nDavid McCracken, \"Chicago Tribune\", 1985\n\n… Zaks is showing paintings by Richard Wetzel, work very much in the Chicago School tradition: hard-edged forms at once organic and artificial—they reminded me, oddly, of electron photomicrography—in eerie, strangely erotic colors.\n\nG. Jurek Polanski, \"Jumpin' Backflash: Original Imagist Artwork, 1966–1969\", 2000\n\nThere are images which linger long after viewing. A prime example is \"Death-Breath\", a 1966 serigraph on paper among the works by Richard Wetzel. Both in spirit and execution, it implies affinities with such German expressionists as Georg Grosz, but for Wetzel, allied with the “Nonplussed Some,” Vietnam, not Dachau, more likely supplied the inspirational matrix.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "338467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338467", "title": "Show Me!", "text": "Show Me!\n\nShow Me! is a sex education book by photographer Will McBride. It appeared in 1974 in German under the title \"Zeig Mal!\", written with psychiatrist Helga Fleischhauer-Hardt for children and their parents. It was translated into English a year later and was widely available in bookstores on both sides of the Atlantic for many years, but later became subject to expanded child pornography laws in jurisdictions including the United States. In Germany, the book was followed in 1990 by a second edition that included, among other additions, a discussion of the AIDS epidemic.\n\nWhile many parents appreciated \"Show Me!\" for its frank depiction of pre-adolescents discovering and exploring their sexuality, others called it child pornography. In 1975 and 1976, obscenity charges were brought against the publisher by prosecutors in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, and Toronto, Ontario, Canada. In all four cases, the judges ruled as a matter of law that the title was not obscene.\n\nHowever, starting in 1977, some states began to criminalize the distribution of even \"non-obscene\" so-called \"child pornography,\" or \"images of abuse,\" which arguably is not protected by the First Amendment. New York State, home of the publisher, St. Martin's Press, criminalized the distribution of non-obscene \"child pornography\" in 1977, but the publisher promptly went to court and obtained an injunction against the State. The court granted the injunction because the First Amendment was interpreted to permit the banning of only obscene material.\n\nIn 1982, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision, \"New York v. Ferber\", which allowed the government to constitutionally ban the knowing distribution of even non-obscene \"child pornography\". Citing a chilling effect, St. Martin's Press then pulled the book, stating that though they believed \"Show Me!\" was not pornographic, they could no longer afford the legal expenses to defend it, and they did not want to risk criminal prosecutions of their own personnel and/or vendors who sold the book. The Court overruled a decision of the New York Court of Appeals, \"The People v. Paul Ira Ferber\", which held that the First Amendment protected the dissemination of non-obscene sexual depictions. \"Show Me!\" was not the direct subject of the \"Ferber\" case, but the book was prominently featured by both sides in the litigation, and it played a significant role in the oral argument before the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nIn its country of origin, Germany, the book first won several awards, even from church organisations, but due to rising pressure from a newly arising \"moral majority\" the publishers and McBride decided to take it off the market in 1996. By then over one million copies in seven languages had been sold. It was never officially banned in Germany. Public libraries there keep it on hand and out of print copies are openly sold at collectors' premium prices.\n\nIn New Zealand the book was banned by the Indecent Publications Tribunal in 1976. The ban was upheld in 1996.\n\n\"Show Me!\" received mixed reviews from the mass media when it was first published. The \"Los Angeles Times\" called the photographs \"beautiful...graceful, charming, and elegant,\" yet accurately predicted, in a severe understatement of what actually happened, that the book \"may start (an) uproar.\" The \"Washington Post\", on the other hand, described the photographs as \"beautiful, assaultive, grotesque, and seductive,\" and concluded that \"Show Me!\" was only suited for \"avant garde\" parents. Reviewer Linda Wolfe was more hostile in the \"New York Times\", calling the book a \"child-abusive joke.\" The 13-year-old daughter of Chicago Tribune reviewer Carol Kleiman commented:\n\nA 2005 Amazon review by Dr. Russell A. Rohde claims that the book, \"appropriately delves into the issues of breast feeding, adolescence, pubertal changes, menses, sexual anatomies, pregnancy, masturbation, contraception, sexual behavioral disturbances and venereal disease. [...] I am not aware of any book comparable to this illustrated primer that fills the needs of sexual education so well.\"\n\nD. F. Janssen places it at the one extreme of a late 20th-century visual and textual revolution that enabled parents to illustrate information that up to that time had been transmitted orally. He sees the work as subversive not for its \"too frank\" portrayal of childhood sexuality, but instead for the primacy that the image takes over the text. In his eyes, the work \"comes out of a culture with a long history of pathologising so-addressed 'primal scenes,'\" a history that became manifest in particular with regard to the works of Will McBride.\n\nThe book is also analyzed in an article on \"Picturing Sex Education\" (Discourse Volume 27, Number 4 / December 2006).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11791674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11791674", "title": "Splendor (1989 film)", "text": "Splendor (1989 film)\n\nSplendor is a 1989 Italian drama film directed by Ettore Scola.\n\nJordan (Marcello Mastroianni) runs a struggling cinema called Splendor in a small town in Italy. Low ticket sales mean that the cinema is no longer a viable business, and Jordan reflects back on his experiences running Splendor, from his arrival in the town as a child with his father. He meets French showgirl Chantal (Marina Vlady) at one of her performances, and she comes to work for him as an usher. Cinephile Luigi (Massimo Troisi) repeatedly attends screenings of \"Il Sorpasso\" in order to see Chantal, with whom he is besotted, and after a brief fling he begins working for Jordan as the projectionist. Attendance at the cinema decreases with the rise of television and Jordan considers bringing in strippers to try and solve his financial problems. Throughout, we see clips of the films shown at the cinema: \"Metropolis\", \"It’s a Wonderful Life\", \"La Grande Guerra\", \"Amarcord\", amongst others. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51270019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51270019", "title": "The Five Thousand Dictionary", "text": "The Five Thousand Dictionary\n\nThe Five Thousand Dictionary: A Chinese-English Dictionary… (1926) or Fenn's Chinese-English Pocket-Dictionary (1942), which was compiled by American missionary Courtenay H. Fenn, is a widely reprinted learners' dictionary that selected Chinese character entries on the basis of common usage. It was the first Chinese-English dictionary to indicate the neutral tone associated with weak syllables.\n\nCourtenay Hughes Fenn, more commonly known as Courtenay H. Fenn or C. H. Fenn, (1886-1953) was a missionary under the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions in China from 1893 to 1925 (Shavit 1990: 162). \n\nFenn's dictionary was originally intended to be an index of the 5,000 character flashcards used by the North China Union Language School, in the California College in China (later incorporated into Claremont Colleges), Beijing. After compiling the indexing information, Fenn decided to create a pocket dictionary for students of Chinese as a foreign language, and was assisted by Chin Hsien-Tseng. Courtenay H. Fenn's foreword expresses his satisfaction in giving the public a dictionary \"the lack of which he has personally felt keenly for the more than thirty years of his sojourn in 'The Land of Sinim'\" (1942: iv), using the Biblical name \"Sinim\" (Hebrew for \"inhabitants of the land of sin\") that some scholars associate with Greek \"Sinae\" \"China\".\n\nLimiting a Chinese learners' dictionary to 5,000 characters is linguistically sound. Statistical studies of Chinese character usage have shown that an average college-educated Chinese person who is not a specialist in classical literature or history has an active vocabulary of between 3,000 and 4,000 characters (Norman 1988: 73). Fenn's dictionary was preceded by William Edward Soothill's \"The Student's Four Thousand Tzu and General Pocket Dictionary\" (1900), and Fenn's colleague Hsien-Tseng Chin later compiled \"The Three Thousand Dictionary of the Chinese Script\" (1941).\n\nThe title of Fenn's dictionary changed through reprinting (Dunn 1977: 79).\n\nThe first edition of The Five Thousand Dictionary: A Chinese-English Dictionary and Index to the Character Cards of the College of Chinese Studies, California College in China was printed in 1926 by the Mission Book Company in Shanghai. Demand for this dictionary was ongoing and four subsequent editions were printed. The second (1928), third (1932, introduction by W. B. Pettus), and fourth editions (1936, J. D. Hayes) were unchanged reprints. The fifth edition (1940) was a revision by Chin Hsien-Tseng, who had assisted Fenn with the original edition, and George D. Wilder from the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Their preface explains the addition of 150 new phrases, deletion of a few obsolete ones, correction of some errors, and inclusion of two tables: \"Chinese Ordinals\" and \"Standard Methods of Showing Pronunciations, including tones\" (Fenn 1942: vii). The first edition of Fenn's dictionary has 578 pages, and the fifth edition has 697 (Yang 1985: 288).\n\nThe revised American edition Fenn's Chinese-English Pocket-Dictionary was published by Harvard University Press in 1942. At the beginning of World War II, the shortage of Chinese and Japanese dictionaries became an urgent matter for English-speaking Allies. The Harvard–Yenching Institute said the need for Chinese dictionaries in America had \"grown from chronic to acute\", and selected Fenn's \"The Five Thousand Dictionary\" (fifth ed., 1940) and \"\" (1931) as two \"practical dictionaries\" to revise and reprint—without the authors' permission—for \"the immediate demands of American students\" (Mathews 1943: v). Both photolithographic reproductions were retitled: \"The Five Thousand Dictionary\" became \"Fenn's Chinese-English Pocket-Dictionary\" (1942) and \"A Chinese-English Dictionary: Compiled for the China Inland Mission by R. H. Mathews\" became \"Mathews' Chinese-English Dictionary\" (1943). \n\nIn response to the \"urgent need\" for publishing the revised Harvard edition, Fenn's dictionary was basically left unchanged (Fenn 1942: i). Aside from some minor corrections and additions, the Chinese-American linguist Yuen Ren Chao significantly revised the dictionary's introduction on standards of pronunciation, and marked the neutral tone with dots—the first Chinese-English dictionary to make this phonological distinction. Harvard University Press changed the original title \"Fenn's Chinese-English Pocket-Dictionary\" (1942) to Chinese-English Pocket-Dictionary (1944) for the hardcover edition, and then to The Five Thousand Dictionary: Chinese-English (1973), also in paperback with a redesigned cover that added the characters 字典 (\"zidian\" \"character dictionary\"). Harvard University Press continued reprinting Fenn's and Mathews' popular Chinese-English dictionaries after the war. By 1984, Fenn's dictionary had sold 34,500 hardcover copies and 18,300 paperback copies (Hall: 1986: 84).\n\nFenn's \"Five Thousand Dictionary\" comprises 5,000 head characters and about 13,000 usage examples of words (Dunn 1997: 79). The overall collation is by Wade-Giles Romanization, which Fenn says is \"not because it is ideal, but simply because its recognition is most nearly universal\" (1942: iv).\n\nEach dictionary page has six columns (Fenn 1942: iv-v). The 1st column of each entry gives the head character, with any variant Chinese characters underneath linked by a line at the left, and the Standard Chinese tone indicated by a superscript on the character for the 4 tonal categories and a dot before it for the unstressed neutral tone (for example, s.v. \"nü\", \"|⋅兒 a girl\" for \"nǚ'ér\" (女兒 \"daughter; girl\") (1942: 369)). Most Chinese characters are classified as radical-phonetic characters that combine a semantically indicative \"radical\" with a phonologically indicative \"phonetic\". The 2nd column gives the head character's radical with its number in the 214 Kangxi radicals, and the 3rd gives the phonetic with its number in Soothill's dictionary (1900). The 4th column gives English translation equivalents for the character, common words written with it (abbreviated as \"|\" vertical bar), and indicates whether the character pronunciation is colloquial (俗) or literary (文), and whether it is used as a Classifier (C) or as a Surname (S). The 5th column gives alternate readings of the character, under which the user may find further information. The 6th column roughly indicates how frequently the character is used in Chinese, using the North China Union Language School's arrangement of the 5,000 character flashcards in ten groups of 500 each, lettered from A to K, with A for the 500 most commonly used characters and K for the 500 least commonly used.\n\nThe Chinese character 道 (composed of radical 162 辵 or 辶 \"walk\" and a \"shǒu\" 首 \"head\" phonetic) for \"dào\" \"way; path; say; the Dao\" or \"dǎo\" \"guide; lead; conduct; instruct; direct\" makes a good sample entry for illustrating a dictionary because it has two pronunciations and complex semantics. Fenn's dictionary enters this character under both \"Tao\" pronunciations (1942: 501, 502). The primary \"dào\" entry gives \"道 | 辵 radical 162 | 首 phonetic 855 | Road, way, passage; zone; doctrine; officer; to say | \"tao\" | A\"—indicating the 4th \"high falling\" tone pronunciation, radical, phonetic, translations, alternate \"dǎo\" pronunciation, and group A of 500 most commonly used characters—and 15 usage examples, including \"|教 doctrine of Taoism\" for \"Dàojiào\" (道教 \"Daoism (as a religion)\") and \"|理 right principles, doctrine\" for \"dàoli\" (道理 \"reason; rationality; the right way; principle; truth\"). The cross-referenced \"dǎo\" entry gives \"道 | 辵 radical 162 | 首 phonetic 855 | 過|兒 Narrow passage | \"tao\" | A\"—indicating the 3rd \"low dipping\" tone, same radical and phonetic, a \"guòdàor\" or (Beijing pronunciation) \"guòdǎor\" (過道兒 \"passageway; corridor\") usage example, alternate \"dào\"pronunciation, and same usage frequency group A.\n\n"}
{"id": "21581889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21581889", "title": "The Inner Reaches of Outer Space", "text": "The Inner Reaches of Outer Space\n\nThe Inner Reaches of Outer Space is a 1986 book by mythologist Joseph Campbell, the last book completed before his death in 1987. In it, he explores the intersections of art, psychology and religion, and discusses the ways in which new myths are born. In writing the book, Campbell drew on transcripts of a series of lectures and conversations that he gave in San Francisco between 1981–1984, including legendary symposiums with astronaut Rusty Schweickart and with members of the Grateful Dead.\n\nOriginally published by Alfred van der Mark in 1986, the book was rereleased by Harper & Row in 1988. With the publication of the third edition by New World Library in 2002, \"The Inner Reaches of Outer Space\" became the second title in the Joseph Campbell Foundation's \"Collected Works of Joseph Campbell\" series.\n\n"}
{"id": "9226144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9226144", "title": "The Reckoning of Time", "text": "The Reckoning of Time\n\nThe Reckoning of Time () is an Anglo-Saxon era treatise written in Medieval Latin by the Northumbrian monk Bede in 725. The treatise includes an introduction to the traditional ancient and medieval view of the cosmos, including an explanation of how the spherical Earth influenced the changing length of daylight, of how the seasonal motion of the Sun and Moon influenced the changing appearance of the new moon at evening twilight, and a quantitative relation between the changes of the tides at a given place and the daily motion of the Moon.\n\n\"The Reckoning of Time\" describes a variety of ancient calendars, including the Anglo-Saxon calendar and the Julian calendar. The focus of ' was calculation of the date of Easter, for which Bede described the method developed by Dionysius Exiguus. ' also gave instructions for calculating the date of the Easter full moon, for calculating the motion of the Sun and Moon through the zodiac, and for many other calculations related to the calendar.\n\nBede based his reasoning for the dates on the Hebrew Bible. The functions of the universe and its purpose are generally referenced by scripture. According to the introduction by Faith Wallis in the 1999 English translated edition of \"The Reckoning of Time\", Bede aimed to write a Christian work that integrated the astronomical understanding of computing with a theological context of history. The book is also regarded by Bede to be a sequel to his works \"The Nature of Things\" and \"On Time\".\n\nThe work is divided into six sections:\n\nThis section familiarizes the reader with terminology regarding measurements.\n\nIn chapter 3 Bede defines a day as being 12 hours long. An hour consists of increments of ', ' and \". Each of which are small increments of time within the hour. The smallest increment of time is the atom.\n\nHere, Bede gives an exhaustive overview of the date of the Earth's creation, the months, the weeks and the Moon.\n\nHe argues that the first day did not, as it was generally believed, take place at the time of an equinox. According to the religious accounts of God's creation of the universe, light was created on the first day. It wasn't until the fourth day, however, that God created the stars and therefore there was no measurement of hours.\n\nMuch of this section is devoted to the Moon. Bede goes into extensive detail about measuring the moon's cycles, the Moon's relationship to the Earth and Sun. Bede discusses the Moon's relationship to the tide and calculating \".\n\nThese two chapters pick up where the previous section left off on examining the irregularities of the Moon creating a leap year as well as why, according to Bede, the Moon appears older than it actually is.\n\nThis section explores different year cycles that include varying numbers of months and days, determining the year cycle of Christ's incarnation, Easter, and other moon cycles.\n\nBede gives an exhaustive description of the Six Ages of the World.\n\nBede details the First Age, from Adam to Noah, as being 1,656 years long according to the Hebrew Bible or 2,242 years according to the Septuagint.\n\nThe Second Age, from Noah to Abraham, is 292 years or 272 years long based on Bede's evaluation of the Hebrew Bible and Septuagint respectively.\n\nThe Third Age is said to be 942 years long according to both the Hebrew Bible and Septuagint spanning from the Abraham to David.\n\nThe Fourth age is from David until the Babylonian exile. This is 473 years according to the Hebrew Bible or 485 according to the Septuagint.\n\nThe Fifth age is from the Babylonian exile to the advent of Christ.\n\nThe Sixth age is the current age lasting from the advent of Christ until the end of days.\n\nFinally, Bede goes on to discuss the end of the Sixth Age, discusses the second coming of Christ, the Antichrist, Judgement Day, and the Seventh and Eighth ages of the world to come.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9798409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9798409", "title": "Theresienstadt (1944 film)", "text": "Theresienstadt (1944 film)\n\nTheresienstadt. Ein Dokumentarfilm aus dem jüdischen Siedlungsgebiet (\"Theresienstadt: A Documentary Film from the Jewish Settlement Area\"), unofficially Der Führer schenkt den Juden eine Stadt (\"The Führer Gives a City to the Jews\"), was a black-and-white projected Nazi propaganda film. It was directed by the German Jewish prisoner Kurt Gerron and the Czech filmmaker Karel Pečený under close SS supervision in Theresienstadt concentration camp, and edited by Pečený's company, Aktualita. Filmed mostly in the fall of 1944, it was completed on 28 March 1945 and screened privately four times. After the war, the film was lost but about twenty minutes of footage was later rediscovered in various archives.\n\nUnlike other Nazi propaganda films, which were under the control of Joseph Goebbels' Ministry of Propaganda, \"Theresienstadt\" was conceived and paid for by the Jewish Affairs department of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, at the initiative of Hans Günther. The film, which displayed supposedly happy and healthy Jews, was part of a larger Nazi program to use Theresienstadt as a tool to discredit reports of the genocide of Jews reaching the Western Allies and neutral countries. However, it was not widely distributed and did not have the opportunity to influence public opinion. Today, \"Theresienstadt\" is considered one of the most disturbing Nazi propaganda films.\n\nTheresienstadt was a Nazi concentration camp in the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia—the German-occupied Czech lands—built inside a repurposed fortified town, Terezín. Between 1941 and 1945, some 140,000 Jews were transported to the camp. Before the war, it housed about 7,000 people; during the camp's existence, the average population was about 45,000. About 33,000 died at Theresienstadt and almost 90,000 were deported to ghettos, extermination camps, and other killing centers, where they faced almost certain death.\n\nIn 1942, a Nazi propaganda film was filmed at Theresienstadt. Unlike other Nazi propaganda films, the initiative came from Hans Günther, director of the SS Central Office for the Settlement of the Jewish Question in Bohemia and Moravia, a section of the Reich Main Security Office, rather than the Reich Ministry of Propaganda of Joseph Goebbels. This was the result of a power struggle between \"Reichsprotektor\" Reinhard Heydrich and Goebbels; Heydrich won the concession that all propaganda produced in the Protectorate would be run through a special office in the Protectorate administration. The film was probably written by , a Czech Jewish prisoner who had run a film studio in Prague with her husband before the war. Little is known about it, since it is little mentioned in the memoirs and testimonies of Theresienstadt survivors, and was only rediscovered in fragmentary form in 1994.\n\nIn an attempt to preserve its credibility and preeminence as a humanitarian organization while reports on the mass extermination of Jews continued to reach the Western Allies, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) requested to visit Theresienstadt concentration camp in November 1943. On 23 June 1944, Maurice Rossel, an ICRC delegate, and two Danish officials went on a tour of Theresienstadt. In preparation for the visit, the Germans \"beautified\" and cleaned the camp prior to arrival and arranged cultural activities to give the appearance of a happy, industrious community. To cover up the endemic overpopulation of the camp, thousands of people were deported to Auschwitz before the arrival of the Red Cross delegation. In his report, Rossel claimed that Jews were treated well and not deported from Theresienstadt. Rossel gave copies of photographs he took during the visit to the German Foreign Ministry, which used them to claim that Jews were treated well under Nazi rule.\n\nPreparations for a second Theresienstadt film, again sponsored by Günther rather than Goebbels, began concurrently with the \"beautification\" of the ghetto prior to the Red Cross visit. Günther's Central Office, which was funded by stolen Jewish property, paid a Czech company, Aktualita, 350,000 Czech koruna (35,000 Reichsmarks) to produce the film. In December 1943, a prisoner, probably Jindřich Weil, was ordered to write a script, and he finished two drafts by March. On 20 January 1944, the Nazis filmed the arrival of a transport of Danish Jews and a welcome speech by , with a view of including it in a later film. There was no effort to complete the film before the Red Cross visit and screen it to the guests. Karel Margry, a Dutch historian who has studied the Theresienstadt propaganda films, argues that the \"beautification\" efforts had a higher priority, and that the propaganda would be more effective if filmed after the ghetto had been beautified. \n\nKurt Gerron, a leading German Jewish actor and director, had fled to the Netherlands and was deported from Westerbork to Theresienstadt in February 1944. In July, the film project was revived and Gerron was ordered to write a script, which was used in the film. While the script has traditionally been credited to Gerron, it closely adhered to Weil's draft and the dictates of the SS; his creative role was minimal. Although he is usually credited with directorship of the film, Gerron's role in the filming was more symbolic than substantial, according to Spanish film historian Rafael de España. Eyewitnesses report that Gerron was constantly urging Jews to behave as mirthfully as the Germans wished and organizing mass scenes. However, SS men oversaw the filming, and Rahm and even Günther supervised scenes. When Rahm was not present on set, Gerron had to send him detailed reports. \n\nThe film was shot in eleven days between 16 August and 11 September 1944. The assistant directors were František Zelenka, Jo Spier, and . Karel Pečený and his company Aktualita provided the cameramen, and halfway through filming, Pečený effectively took over as director. The two cameramen were Ivan Frič and Čeněk Zahradníček, assisted by Benda Rosenwein. The film's soundtrack has been credited to Jaroslav Sechura and Josef Francek. Aktualita collaborated with the German newsreel company Favoritfilm in producing the film. Prisoners of stereotypically Jewish appearance who were not obviously malnourished were chosen to appear in the film. They were given time off work for rehearsals and filming, and those unwilling to appear were threatened with harsh punishment.\n\nOn 28 October, Gerron was deported to Auschwitz, where he was murdered, never seeing even a preliminary version of the film. The film was cut by Ivan Frič, who did not use Gerron's proposals for cutting or any of the scripts, but instead using the same improvised technique that he used for Aktualita's weekly newsreels. Frič had to cut the ending three times before Günther accepted it. The final cut bore little resemblance to Gerron's July script, his later editing proposal, or his creative vision for the film. In March, Aktualita sent a crew to the camp in order to collect some samples of \"Jewish music\", including snippets of the work of Felix Mendelssohn, Jacques Offenbach, and the children's opera \"Brundibár\" by Theresienstadt prisoner Hans Krása. The music was performed under the direction of Danish Jewish composer Peter Deutsch, who had experience with film soundtracks before the war. The SS completed the film on 28 March 1945, in time to present to the ICRC delegation that arrived on 6 April 1945.\n\nTestimonies agree that the film ran about 90 minutes, the standard length. Survivors remember what was filmed, but not which scenes were used in the final version. Although the full film was lost, a surviving document from the editing stage lists all the sequences as they appeared in the final version, and from surviving fragments and the drawings of Jo Spier, historians have \"a very good idea of the visual image of virtually every scene in the film's 38 sequences\", according to Margry. Nothing survives of a scene showing the self-government's court and a different scene in a dining hall.\n\nThe film opens with the children's choir, directed by Karel Fischer, singing Mendolssohn's oratorio, \"Elijah\". The Ghetto Swingers, a jazz band, plays outside, and \"Prominent\" prisoners enjoy food and beverages on a terrace and in a sham coffee house. Various sports events are also performed. The first eight sequences of the film show only leisure activities, setting the tone for the rest of the film and casting Theresienstadt as a holiday resort. Later sections of the film focus on work, including the Jewish self-government, construction projects, craft workshops, and agriculture. H. G. Adler notes that the type of work depicted in the film was not typical of that performed by most prisoners. Fake institutions, such as a bank and various shops, also are shown. Theresienstadt medical care, including a hospital and recuperation home, makes an appearance. Family life and unstructured leisure time is depicted towards the end of the film. The final scene is of a performance of the children's opera \"Brundibár\".\n\nKarl Rahm insisted that the \"Prominent\" prisoners of Theresienstadt be filmed, and pressed Gerron to include more of them in his shots. Among the \"Prominents\" who appeared were Jo Spier, Max Friediger, Paul Eppstein, and Leo Baeck. The SS also insisted that the film's soundtrack consist exclusively of Jewish composers. According to España, the film itself is of good technical quality, and the focus on leisure activities creates an \"atmosphere of a perpetual party\". Margry states that the narration was \"the main truth-distorting element\", but nevertheless included some factual information. According to Margry, historians have exaggerated the falseness of the film. Although \"Theresienstadt\" as a whole is \"a vicious work of propaganda\", \"the \"visual\" authenticity\" of the film is greater than many commentators have written, and the film accurately depicts some elements of daily life in the ghetto.\n\nThe film was not intended to be shown in Germany; the Nazi propagandists hoped to distribute it in neutral countries to counter Allied news reports about the persecution of Jews. However, by the time the film was completed on 28 March 1945, Germany's imminent defeat made this impossible. An alternate interpretation was that by the time it was completed, the film was intended for a much more select audience and narrowly focused on the cinematic portrayal of \"Prominent\" prisoners who had in fact been murdered at Auschwitz in order to persuade the ICRC that they were still alive. Because of this more select audience, Czech film historian Natascha Drubek argues that the film was not propaganda in a true sense. \n\nThe film is known to have been screened at least three times. According to Margry, in late March or early April at Czernin Palace in Prague, the film was shown privately to a few high-ranking SS officers, including Higher SS and Police Leader for the Protectorate, Karl Hermann Frank, as well as Günther and Rahm. It was shown at Theresienstadt on 6 April to a Red Cross delegation including Otto Lehner and Paul Dunant, accompanied by Swiss diplomat Buchmüller; Frank's subordinate Erwin Weinmann was also present. Pointing to testimony that Rahm was bedridden with fever on 6 April, Drubek argues that these two screenings were in fact the same, and that Lehner and Dunant saw the film on 6 April at Czernin Palace with Frank, but not Rahm, in attendance.\n\nOn 16 April the film was shown twice at Theresienstadt, first to Benoit Musy, son of Jean-Marie Musy, a Swiss politician and negotiator with Himmler, in the company of SS officer Franz Göring. After Musy left, the film was shown to Rudolf Kastner, chairman of the Hungarian Jewish Aid and Rescue Committee; Kastner was escorted by two members of Eichmann's staff. Günther, his deputy Gerhard Günel, Rahm, and Jewish elder Benjamin Murmelstein were also present. All of those who viewed the film had access to independent reports that hundreds of thousands of Jews were being murdered at Auschwitz and there is no indication that any of them were affected by the film. At Pečený's recommendation, the SS deposited 25 crates of film footage in Favoritfilm's warehouse in Holešovice shortly before the Prague uprising broke out. The warehouse was damaged by an incendiary bomb on 7 May. Eva Strusková suggests that Günther may have ordered the film to be destroyed. There is no proof that \"Theresienstadt\" was in the warehouse, so it is possible that the film was otherwise lost.\n\nIn the postwar era, the film was lost, but continued to be the focus of discussion. The RSHA archives were burned in 1945, so the Nazis' paperwork relating to \"Theresienstadt\" was also destroyed. Less than 25 minutes of footage were later discovered in various archives. Přemysl Schönbach discovered fragments of the film in Mšeno in May or June 1945. He kept them in a private archive, but showed them to Vladimír Kressl, a lecturer at the Film and TV School of the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague in 1964, which resulted in a copy of the footage being deposited into the Czechoslovak national archives that same year. The same year, Schönbach sold the rights to Michael Bornkamp, a West German journalist, who subsequently used the footage in a documentary \"So schön war es in Terezin\" (\"It was so nice in Terezín\"), which was screened at the 1965 Oberhausen Film Festival. Because Czechoslovakia was under Communist rule at the time, Schönbach was sentenced to a three-year suspended sentence for causing financial loss to the Czechoslovak nation. Also in 1965, the Czechoslovak authorities allowed the creation of a documentary based on the footage, \"Město darované\" (\"The Given Town\"), which is still used by the Terezín Ghetto Museum today. Fragments of footage including the title sequence were discovered in a former Gestapo building in Prague by former prisoner Jiří Lauscher at an unknown date and transferred to an Israeli archive, where they were rediscovered in 1987. A speech made by Paul Eppstein was discovered in Prague in 1997. The Israeli footage was broken into 24 fragments, the shortest of which was only one frame and the longest of which was two minutes. Another important source of information on what was filmed is the sketches of Jo Spier, a Dutch Jewish illustrator who observed the filming and made 332 sketches of scenes from the camera's viewpoint. Although some critics have assumed that his sketches were made before filming, this is not the case.\n\nAccording to Kurt Gerron's papers, the original title was \"Die jüdische Selbstverwaltung in Theresienstadt\" (\"The Jewish Self-Government in Theresienstadt\"); later, he used the short title \"Theresienstadt\". Excerpts of the film discovered in the Israeli archive in 1988 revealed the official title to be \"Theresienstadt\", with the subtitle \"Ein Dokumentarfilm aus dem jüdischen Siedlungsgebiet\" (\"A Documentary Film from the Jewish Settlement Area\"). According to Margry, the Nazis called it a \"documentary film\" in order to cast the film as an authentic representation of Theresienstadt life rather than staged propaganda, while the last three words imply that there were more \"Jewish settlements\" like Theresienstadt. It is believed that Jewish prisoners gave the film an ironic title, \"Der Führer schenkt den Juden eine Stadt\", (\"The Führer Gives a City to the Jews\"), during the final months of the war, which was used as the title until 1988. The misconception about the correct title has been used in a number of analyses of Nazi propaganda by film critics. \n\nFilm historians have often claimed that the film was ordered by Goebbels, but that is not the case. Many scholars have claimed that the film was ordered after the June Red Cross visit, but it was prepared from late 1943. The earlier origin of the film discredits many theories that have been offered for why the Nazis ordered the film. It has also been claimed that Heinrich Himmler was closely involved in the production of the film and showed it to the Western Allied agents with whom he was conducting secret negotiations in late 1944. However, the only evidence suggesting that he knew of the film's existence is a letter between his secretary, Rudolf Brandt, and personal masseuse, Felix Kersten, in March or April 1945.\n\nThe German film website filmportal.de describes the film as \"one of the most cynical and despicable Nazi propaganda films\". In a review of the 2002 Canadian documentary \"Prisoner of Paradise\", which focused on Gerron's role in the film, \"Entertainment Weekly\" states that the 1944 film was \"a work of propaganda so perverse one is shocked to realize that even the Nazis could have thought of it\". For many years, it was assumed that the participants in the film were collaborators, and they were judged very harshly. Karel Pečený was convicted of collaborationism in 1947 and sentenced to five years' imprisonment, ten years' loss of civil rights, and the nationalization of his company and other assets. Later appraisal has tempered this assesment. Margry states that Aktualita's participation was probably coerced by the SS. He notes that Frič smuggled still images out of the studio at considerable personal risk and Pečený risked his life by delaying the completion of the film until after it was no longer useful to Günther. The film has been used by Holocaust deniers to make false generalizations about the treatment of Jews by the Nazi regime.\n\n"}
{"id": "53825391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53825391", "title": "Thomas Barrow (artist)", "text": "Thomas Barrow (artist)\n\nThomas Barrow (born 1938 in Kansas City, Missouri) studied with Aaron Siskind at the Art Institute of Design, Chicago, and graduated with an MA in 1967. He has been at the forefront of a generation of photographers who came of age during the sixties counterculture and has worked with numerous experimental processes. In the 1970s he created his \"Cancellations\" series in which he manipulated his photographs of buildings and urban landscapes and used a pick axe to manipulate the negatives before printing. He has utilized different mediums such as spray paint and builder's caulk to disrupt the pictorial image. Often he physically deconstructs and reassembles his prints to draw attention to the materiality of the photograph. Barrow has filled multiple roles as curator, editor, educator, and practitioner during his career. He held the titles of curator, assistant director and editor at George Eastman House from 1965-1972. In 1976 Barrow began teaching photography at the University of New Mexico and became Director of the university's Art Museum in 1985.\n\nInspired by the atmospheric haze and the closeness to what he considers “pure photography,” Barrow has worked intermittently with pinhole photography since 1997. His work can be found in public collections worldwide, including the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, the Denver Art Museum, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Center for Creative Photography, where Barrow's archive is held, and scores of others. Barrow has received two NEA Photographers Fellowships (1973, 1978).\n\nBarrow has written \"Reading into Photography: Selected Essays, 1959-1980\" (1982) and \"Cancellations\" (2012). He has co-authored multiple photography books including Photography New Mexico, Perspectives on Photography: Essays in Honor of Beaumont Newhall, and Stories from the Camera: Reflections on the Photograph\n"}
{"id": "29234976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29234976", "title": "Tophit", "text": "Tophit\n\nTophit is a Russian music project that deals with online distribution of new songs and music videos to radios and TV-channels respectively as well as publication of music charts, based on the quantity of radio air spins. Since the week ending on 17 July 2016, Tophit added YouTube views as part of its chart methodology. All charts of Tophit.ru are refreshed every Wednesday.\n\nThanks to a wide partnership geography (over 420 radios all over the world), openness and transparency of the charts published, the website Tophit.ru is often used as a source of an artist popularity in the territory of Russia. Universal Music called Tophit.ru the most reliable website, monitoring Russia’s radio air.\n\nThe first song #1 on Tophit.ru became , performed by VIA Gra and Valery Meladze, on 23 November 2003.\n\nTophit includes:\n\nGeneral charts is compiled on the basis of the data about singles’ weekly rotation on air of 230 Russian radiostations as well 200 ones of Ukraine, the CIS countries, Baltic States, Cyprus, Israel, Germany, the US and Canada, which broadcast in Russian.\n\nEvery week tophit.ru publishes \"Airplay Detection TopHit 100\"—a consolidated chart, based on song rotation on air of radiostations-partners. The artists (rightholders) place their songs on the website, after what the radio stations download those they consider suitable to air, and then weekly send reports on their rotation. Anatoly Veizenfeld and Mikhail Sergeev journal \"Zvukorezhissyor (Soundproducer) wrote: \"That is the way, how the feedback comes from the broadcasters in this project, and it allows them to receive the data about each song rotation on air of over 400 radio stations.\n\nBesides the general chart, there are ones for Moscow, Saint Petersburg and Kiev; monthly charts (general and separate ones for each of the mentioned cities) and annual charts (general, separate ones for each of the mentioned cities and one for top artists). The website also collects statistics on the songs, played in request programs most often.\n\nSince 2010 till 2013 the TV-program Top Hit Chart, based on the portal statistics, was broadcast by Muz-TV, and it presented 30 most popular on radio air of Russia and the CIS countries songs. According to the website Advertology.ru, the program was on Top-10 of the most popular music programs of the channel with rating of 0.7%.\n\nAt present the radio version of the program is weekly released on the air of over 40 radio stations of Russia and the CIS countries. In 2010–2014 its presenter was Mitya Fomin, and now it’s hosted by .\n\nIn 2010 the summary statistical data of the portal for the year of 2009 became the foremost source in defining the nominees for \"Bog Efira [Air God]\" Music Awards (i.e. a music version of Popov’s Award in the area of radio broadcast). Tophit annual charts are also covered in the mass media.\n\nIn March 2015 Tophit began publication of the first on the market of Russia and the CIS countries streaming charts TOP 100 YouTube.com. The chart is based on the views of music videos on YouTube and reflects the mass audience preferences on the web and the fact how they change in a course of time.\n\nThe statistical data is collected on the songs, placed on Tophit.ru. As a rule, such a list is based on the new compositions, picked by the portal administration, as well as the songs, already released on the portal but should be drawn attention to (for instance, ones, which are supported by promo-campaign or a music video is filmed for).\n\nThe charts are based on the playlist rotation data of songs, received directly from the radiostations-partners, and the number of song spins in request programs. As a result, up to 20 parameters are taken into account in relation to each radio station (the place it broadcasts, how many cities/towns it covers, how the playlists are technically made and who does it, etc.).\n\nDespite a large amount of the data processed, Tophit.ru charts still fall into the category of radio rotation, i.e. they take into account the number of song spins on radio air but have nothing in common with the volume of song sales on CDs or downloads on the web, etc.\n\nExperts of the news agency and expressed the opinion that the charts, published by the portal could not fully reflect the artist popularity in Russia, as Tophit along with Moskva.FM deal with radio industry research. Nevertheless, the experts qualified the portal hit parades as professional. also marked that Tophit.ru activity is more familiar to the music industry professionals than public at large. \"One of the most effective chart-based sources is Tophit.ru. It's rather a reliable in professional circles mechanism that allows the rightholders place their compositions on the website and make them available for stations download. The latter ones, in their turn, having downloaded the song, send reports on its rotation, if this song is put on air, what shows its popularity. Tophit.ru promotion model is considered very effective on the market\", wrote the author. called Tophit.ru the leader in the area of media content delivery to radio stations. In the journal Anastasia Markina also mentioned the portal as the leader in its professional sphere and marked: \"Tophit.ru took under its wing over 400 stations and 60 TV-channels. On the other hand, over a thousand rights holders, among which are the majority of record labels, including the majors Sony Music, Universal Music, Warner Music and EMI/Gala Records», work with this website.\n\nIn RMA (a course of lectures for professionals in music business) Dmitry Konnov, Universal Music Russia CEO, speaking of Russian music promotion perspectives, underlined the fact that \"if you want to reach popularity, I advise to write and perform Russian music, promote Russian artists and keep a close watch at Tophit.ru but not get lost in admiration at Billboard.\n\nSince 5 January 2015, Nyusha holds the record for the most #1 singles with 8. Nyusha had previously tied with MakSim and Vintage for the record with 7 #1 singles each.\n\n\n\n\n\nTop Hit Music Awards is an annual awards ceremony, held and established by the portal tophit.ru. The Russian artists, authors and producers are honored for outstanding achievements in popular music and record business, based on the data of song rotation on air of the radio stations, tophit.ru partners. The first Music Awards Ceremony took place in 2013. Besides, Top Hit Hall Of Fame was opened as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4256520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4256520", "title": "Tract (literature)", "text": "Tract (literature)\n\nA tract is a literary work, and in current usage, usually religious in nature. The notion of what constitutes a tract has changed over time. By the early part of the 21st century, a tract referred to a brief pamphlet used for religious and political purposes, though far more often the former. Tracts are often either left for someone to find or handed out. However, there have been times in history when the term implied tome-like works. A \"tractate\", a derivative of a tract, is equivalent in Hebrew literature to a \"chapter\" of the Christian Bible.\n\nThe distribution of tracts pre-dates the development of the printing press, with the term being applied by scholars to religious and political works at least as early as the 13th century. They were used to disseminate the teachings of John Wycliffe in the 14th century. As a political tool, they proliferated throughout Europe during the 17th century. They have been printed as persuasive religious material since the invention of Gutenberg's printing press, being widely utilized by Martin Luther during the start of the Lutheran movement of Christianity.\n\nAs religious literature, tracts were used throughout the turbulence of the Protestant Reformation and the various upheavals of the 17th century. They came to such prominence again in the Oxford Movement for reform within the Church of England that the movement became known as \"Tractarianism\", after the publication in the 1830s and 1840s of a series of religious essays collectively called \"Tracts for the Times\".\n\nThese tracts were written by a group of Anglican clergy including John Henry Newman, John Keble, Henry Edward Manning, and Edward Pusey. They were theological discourses that sought to establish the continuity between the Church of England and the patristic period of church history. They had a vast influence on Anglo-Catholicism. They were learned works and varied in length from four to over 400 pages. An important center for the spreading of tracts was the London-based Religious Tract Society. Tracts were used both within England, affecting the conversion of pioneer missionary to China, Hudson Taylor, as well as in the crosscultural missions that movements such as Taylor founded: the China Inland Mission.\n\nCharles Spurgeon wrote many tracts, and in addition to these evangelical writings, his \"Penny Sermons\" were printed weekly and distributed widely by the millions and used in a similar way, and they still are today. In America, the American Tract Society distributed vast quantities of tracts in multitudes of languages to newly arriving immigrants at Ellis Island and sought to assist them in their struggles in their new country.\n\nThe publishing of tracts for religious purposes has continued unabated, with many evangelical tract ministries, in particular, existing today. In the United States, the American Tract Society has continuously published literature of this type since 1825. By the late 19th century, Bible Students associated with \"Zion's Watch Tower Tract Society\" were distributing tens of millions of tracts each year; by the start of World War I, they had distributed hundreds of millions of tracts in dozens of languages worldwide. The Watch Tower Society continues to publish hundreds of millions of religious tracts in more than 400 languages, which are distributed by Jehovah's Witnesses.\n\nAs evangelistic tools, tracts became prominent in the Jesus movement. One of the most widely distributed was \"The Four Spiritual Laws\" authored by Bill Bright of Campus Crusade for Christ and first published in 1965. \"This Was Your Life\" was the first of many tracts written by Jack Chick. Later Chick tracts followed the pattern of vivid cartoon images and began to focus on issues of Fundamentalist Christianity, including vehement Anti-Catholic opinions.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, Last Days Ministries reprinted articles in the \"Last Days Newsletter\" by Keith Green and other contemporary and historic writers including David Wilkerson, Leonard Ravenhill, Winkie Pratney, Charles Finney, John Wesley, and William Booth. More recently Living Waters Publications prints tracts such as \"The Atheist Test\" or \"Are You Good Enough to Go to Heaven?\", as well as tracts which feature attention-getting illusions or gags. These include the \"Million Dollar Bill\", which caused a legal controversy in June 2006. Most Christian tract ministries operate as non-profit \"faith\" organizations, some to the degree that they do not require a fee for their tracts. One of the most productive among these is Fellowship Tract League, which has printed over 4 billion Gospel tracts since 1978, available in over 70 different languages, and have been distributed into more than 200 countries.\n\n\"Tracting\" is a colloquialism commonly used by Mormon missionaries to refer to door-to-door proselytizing, whether or not actual tracts are dispensed.\n\nBrochure-like tracts, also known as pamphlets, advocating political positions have also been used throughout history as well. They were used throughout Europe in the 17th century. In the 18th century, they featured prominently in the political unrest leading up to the American Revolution, and in the English response to the French Revolution, a \"pamphlet war\" known as the Revolution Controversy. A well-known example of a far-reaching tract from this era is \"Common Sense\" by Thomas Paine.\n\nTracts were used for political purposes throughout the 20th century. They were used to spread Nazi propaganda in central Europe during the 1930s and 1940s. According to Jack Chick, his impetus to design cartoon-based religious tracts was brought on by hearing of a similar promotional tool used by Communists in China to wide success. In the months before the John F. Kennedy assassination, Lee Harvey Oswald handed out pamphlets promoting Fidel Castro and Communist Cuba on the streets of New Orleans, Louisiana.\n"}
