{"id": "2457965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2457965", "title": "A Century of Cinema", "text": "A Century of Cinema\n\nA Century of Cinema is a 1994 American documentary film directed by Caroline Thomas about the art of filmmaking (coinciding with cinema's 100th anniversary), containing numerous interviews with some of the most influential film personalities of the 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "7960202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7960202", "title": "Arab–Israeli conflict", "text": "Arab–Israeli conflict\n\nThe Arab–Israeli conflict refers to the political tension, military conflicts and disputes between a number of Arab countries and Israel. The roots of the Arab–Israeli conflict are attributed to the rise of Zionism and Arab nationalism towards the end of the 19th century. Part of the dispute arises from the conflicting claims to the land. Territory regarded by the Jewish people as their ancestral homeland is at the same time regarded by the Pan-Arab movement as historically and currently belonging to the Palestinians, and in the Pan-Islamic context, as Muslim lands.\n\nThe sectarian conflict between Palestinian Jews and Arabs emerged in the early 20th century, peaking into a full-scale civil war in 1947 and transforming into the First Arab–Israeli War in May 1948, following the Israeli Declaration of Independence. Large-scale hostilities mostly ended with the cease-fire agreements after the 1973 Yom Kippur War. Peace agreements were signed between Israel and Egypt in 1979, resulting in Israeli withdrawal from the Sinai Peninsula and abolishment of the military governance system in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, in favor of Israeli Civil Administration and consequent unilateral annexation of the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem.\n\nThe nature of the conflict has shifted over the years from the large-scale, regional Arab–Israeli conflict to a more local Israeli–Palestinian conflict, which peaked during the 1982 Lebanon War. With the decline of the First Palestinian Intifada, the interim Oslo Accords led to the creation of the Palestinian National Authority in 1994, within the context of the Israeli–Palestinian peace process. The same year Israel and Jordan reached a peace accord. A cease-fire has been largely maintained between Israel and Baathist Syria, as well as with Lebanon since 2006. Despite the peace agreements with Egypt and Jordan, interim peace accords with the Palestinian Authority and the generally existing cease-fire, the Arab League and Israel remain at odds with each other over many issues.\n\nDevelopments in the course of the Syrian Civil War reshuffled the situation near Israel's northern border, putting the Syrian Arab Republic, Hezbollah and the Syrian opposition at odds with each other and complicating their relations with Israel. The conflict between Israel and Hamas-ruled Gaza, which resulted in the 2014 cease-fire, is usually also considered part of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. Its 2006–2012 phase is, however, also attributed to the Iran–Israel proxy conflict in the region (Syria and Hezbollah are being supported by Iran). Since 2012, Iran (predominantly Shia) has cut ties with the Sunni Hamas movement on account of the latter's support for the opposition in the Syrian Civil War.\n\nSome groups opposed to the peace process invoke religious arguments for their uncompromising positions. The contemporary history of the Arab–Israeli conflict is very much affected by the religious beliefs of the various sides and their views of the idea of the chosen people in their policies with regard to the \"Promised Land\" and the \"Chosen City\" of Jerusalem.\n\nThe Land of Canaan or \"Eretz Yisrael\" (Land of Israel) was, according to the Hebrew Bible, promised by God to the Children of Israel. This is also mentioned in the Qur'an. In his 1896 manifesto, \"The Jewish State\", Theodor Herzl repeatedly refers to the Biblical Promised Land concept. Likud is currently the most prominent Israeli political party to include the Biblical claim to the Land of Israel in its platform.\n\nMuslims also claim rights to that land in accordance with the Quran. Contrary to the Jewish claim that this land was promised only to the descendants of Abraham's grandson Jacob (\"Yisrael\"), they argue that the Land of Canaan was promised to what they consider the elder son of Abraham, Ishmael, from whom Arabs claim descent. Additionally, Muslims also revere many sites holy for Biblical Israelites, such as the Cave of the Patriarchs and the Temple Mount. In the past 1,400 years, Muslims have constructed Islamic landmarks on these ancient Israelite sites, such as the Dome of the Rock and the Al-Aqsa Mosque on the Temple Mount, the holiest site in Judaism. This has brought the two groups into conflict over the rightful possession of Jerusalem. Muslim teaching is that Muhammad passed through Jerusalem on his first journey to heaven. Hamas, which governs the Gaza Strip, claims that all of the land of Palestine (the current Israeli and Palestinian territories) is an Islamic \"waqf\" that must be governed by Muslims.\n\nChristian Zionists often support the State of Israel because of the ancestral right of the Jews to the Holy Land, as suggested, for instance, by the apostle Paul in his letter to the , in the Bible. Christian Zionism teaches that the return of Jews in Israel is a prerequisite for the Second Coming of Christ.\n\nThe roots of the modern Arab–Israeli conflict lie in the rise of Zionism and the reactionary Arab nationalism that arose in response to Zionism towards the end of the 19th century. Territory regarded by the Jewish people as their historical homeland is also regarded by the Pan-Arab movement as historically and presently belonging to the Palestinian Arabs. Before World War I, the Middle East, including Palestine (later Mandatory Palestine), had been under the control of the Ottoman Empire for nearly 400 years. During the closing years of their empire, the Ottomans began to espouse their Turkish ethnic identity, asserting the primacy of Turks within the empire, leading to discrimination against the Arabs. The promise of liberation from the Ottomans led many Jews and Arabs to support the allied powers during World War I, leading to the emergence of widespread Arab nationalism. Both Arab nationalism and Zionism had their formulative beginning in Europe. The Zionist Congress was established in Basel in 1897, while the \"Arab Club\" was established in Paris in 1906.\n\nIn the late 19th century European and Middle Eastern Jewish communities began to increasingly immigrate to Palestine and purchase land from the local Ottoman landlords. The population of the late 19th century in Palestine reached 600,000 – mostly Muslim Arabs, but also significant minorities of Jews, Christians, Druze and some Samaritans and Bahai's. At that time, Jerusalem did not extend beyond the walled area and had a population of only a few tens of thousands. Collective farms, known as kibbutzim, were established, as was the first entirely Jewish city in modern times, Tel Aviv.\n\nDuring 1915–16, as World War I was underway, the British High Commissioner in Egypt, Sir Henry McMahon, secretly corresponded with Husayn ibn 'Ali, the patriarch of the Hashemite family and Ottoman governor of Mecca and Medina. McMahon convinced Husayn to lead an Arab revolt against the Ottoman Empire, which was aligned with Germany against Britain and France in the war. McMahon promised that if the Arabs supported Britain in the war, the British government would support the establishment of an independent Arab state under Hashemite rule in the Arab provinces of the Ottoman Empire, including Palestine. The Arab revolt, led by T. E. Lawrence (\"Lawrence of Arabia\") and Husayn's son Faysal, was successful in defeating the Ottomans, and Britain took control over much of this area.\n\nIn 1917, Palestine was conquered by the British forces (including the Jewish Legion). The British government issued the Balfour Declaration, which stated that the government viewed favorably \"the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people\" but \"that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine\". The Declaration was issued as a result of the belief of key members of the government, including Prime Minister David Lloyd George, that Jewish support was essential to winning the war; however, the declaration caused great disquiet in the Arab world. After the war, the area came under British rule as the British Mandate of Palestine. The area mandated to the British in 1923 included what is today Israel, the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Transjordan eventually was carved into a separate British protectorate – the Emirate of Transjordan, which gained an autonomous status in 1928 and achieved complete independence in 1946 with the approval by the United Nations of the end of the British Mandate.\n\nA major crisis among the Arab nationalists took place with the failed establishment of the Arab Kingdom of Syria in 1920. With the disastrous outcome of the Franco-Syrian War, the self-proclaimed Hashemite kingdom with its capital in Damascus was defeated and the Hashemite ruler took refuge in Mandatory Iraq. The crisis saw the first confrontation of nationalist Arab and Jewish forces, taking place in the Battle of Tel Hai in March 1920, but more importantly the collapse of the pan-Arabist kingdom led to the establishment of the local Palestinian version of Arab nationalism, with the return of Amin al-Husseini from Damascus to Jerusalem in late 1920.\n\nAt this point in time Jewish immigration to Mandatory Palestine continued, while to some opinions a similar, but less documented, immigration also took place in the Arab sector, bringing workers from Syria and other neighbouring areas. Palestinian Arabs saw this rapid influx of Jewish immigrants as a threat to their homeland and their identity as a people. Moreover, Jewish policies of purchasing land and prohibiting the employment of Arabs in Jewish-owned industries and farms greatly angered the Palestinian Arab communities. Demonstrations were held as early as 1920, protesting what the Arabs felt were unfair preferences for the Jewish immigrants set forth by the British mandate that governed Palestine at the time. This resentment led to outbreaks of violence later that year, as the al-Husseini incited riots broke out in Jerusalem. Winston Churchill's 1922 White Paper tried to reassure the Arab population, denying that the creation of a Jewish state was the intention of the Balfour Declaration.\n\nIn 1929, after a demonstration by Vladimir Jabotinsky's political group Betar at the Western Wall, riots started in Jerusalem and expanded throughout Mandatory Palestine; Arabs murdered 67 Jews in the city of Hebron, in what became known as the Hebron massacre. During the week of the 1929 riots, at least 116 Arabs and 133 Jews were killed and 339 wounded.\n\nBy 1931, 17 percent of the population of Mandatory Palestine were Jews, an increase of six percent since 1922. Jewish immigration peaked soon after the Nazis came to power in Germany, causing the Jewish population in British Palestine to double.\n\nIn the mid-1930s Izz ad-Din al-Qassam arrived from Syria and established the Black Hand, an anti-Zionist and anti-British militant organization. He recruited and arranged military training for peasants, and by 1935 he had enlisted between 200 and 800 men. The cells were equipped with bombs and firearms, which they used to kill Jewish settlers in the area, as well as engaging in a campaign of vandalism of Jewish settler plantations. By 1936, escalating tensions led to the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine.\n\nIn response to Arab pressure, the British Mandate authorities greatly reduced the number of Jewish immigrants to Palestine (see White Paper of 1939 and the ). These restrictions remained in place until the end of the mandate, a period which coincided with the Nazi Holocaust and the flight of Jewish refugees from Europe. As a consequence, most Jewish entrants to Mandatory Palestine were considered illegal (see Aliyah Bet), causing further tensions in the region. Following several failed attempts to solve the problem diplomatically, the British asked the newly formed United Nations for help. On 15 May 1947, the General Assembly appointed a committee, the UNSCOP, composed of representatives from eleven states. To make the committee more neutral, none of the Great Powers were represented. After five weeks of in-country study, the Committee reported to the General Assembly on 3 September 1947. The Report contained a majority and a minority plan. The majority proposed a \"Plan of Partition with Economic Union\". The minority proposed \"The Independent State of Palestine\". With only slight modifications, the \"Plan of Partition with Economic Union\" was the one the adoption and implementation of which was recommended in resolution 181(II) of 29 November 1947. The Resolution was adopted by 33 votes to 13 with 10 abstentions. All six Arab states who were UN-members voted against it. On the ground, Arab and Jewish Palestinians were fighting openly to control strategic positions in the region. Several major atrocities were committed by both sides.\n\nIn the weeks prior to the end of the Mandate the Haganah launched a number of offensives in which they gained control over all the territory allocated by the UN to the Jewish State, creating a large number of refugees and capturing the towns of Tiberias, Haifa, Safad, Beisan and, in effect, Jaffa.\n\nEarly in 1948, the United Kingdom announced its firm intention to terminate its mandate in Palestine on 14 May. In response, U.S. President Harry S. Truman made a statement on 25 March proposing UN trusteeship rather than partition, stating that \"unfortunately, it has become clear that the partition plan cannot be carried out at this time by peaceful means. ... unless emergency action is taken, there will be no public authority in Palestine on that date capable of preserving law and order. Violence and bloodshed will descend upon the Holy Land. Large-scale fighting among the people of that country will be the inevitable result.\"\n\nOn 14 May 1948, the day on which the British Mandate over Palestine expired, the Jewish People's Council gathered at the Tel Aviv Museum and approved a proclamation that declared the establishment of a Jewish state in Eretz Israel, to be known as the State of Israel. The declaration was made by David Ben-Gurion, the Executive Head of the World Zionist Organization.\n\nThere were no mention of the borders of the new state other than that it was in Eretz Israel. An official to the UN Secretary-General on 15 May 1948 stated publicly that Arab Governments found \"themselves compelled to intervene for the sole purpose of restoring peace and security and establishing law and order in Palestine\" (Clause 10(e)). Further in Clause 10(e): \"The Governments of the Arab States hereby confirm at this stage the view that had been repeatedly declared by them on previous occasions, such as the London Conference and before the United Nations mainly, the only fair and just solution to the problem of Palestine is the creation of United State of Palestine based upon the democratic principles ...\"\n\nThat day, the armies of Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Iraq invaded what had just ceased to be the British Mandate, marking the beginning of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. The nascent Israeli Defense Force repulsed the Arab nations from part of the occupied territories, thus extending its borders beyond the original UNSCOP partition. By December 1948, Israel controlled most of the portion of Mandate Palestine west of the Jordan River. The remainder of the Mandate consisted of Jordan, the area that came to be called the West Bank (controlled by Jordan), and the Gaza Strip (controlled by Egypt). Prior to and during this conflict, 713,000 Palestinian Arabs fled their original lands to become Palestinian refugees, in part due to a promise from Arab leaders that they would be able to return when the war had been won, and also in part due to attacks on Palestinian villages and towns by Israeli forces and Jewish militant groups. Many Palestinians fled from the areas that are now Israel as a response to massacres of Arab towns by militant Jewish organizations like the Irgun and the Lehi (group) (See Deir Yassin massacre). The War came to an end with the signing of the 1949 Armistice Agreements between Israel and each of its Arab neighbours.\n\nThe status of Jewish citizens in Arab states worsened during the 1948 Israeli-Arab war. Anti-Jewish riots erupted throughout the Arab World in December 1947, and Jewish communities were hit particularly hard in Aleppo and British-controlled Aden, with hundreds of dead and injured. In Libya, Jews were deprived of citizenship, and in Iraq, their property was seized. Egypt expelled most of its foreign community, including Jews, after the Suez War 1956, while Algeria denied its French citizens, including Jews, of citizenship upon its independence in 1962. Over the course of twenty years, some 850,000 Jews from Arab countries immigrated to Israel and other countries.\n\nAs a result of Israel's victory in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, any Arabs caught on the wrong side of the ceasefire line were unable to return to their homes in what became Israel. Likewise, any Jews on the West Bank or in Gaza were exiled from their property and homes to Israel. Today's Palestinian refugees are the descendants of those who left, the responsibility for their exodus being a matter of dispute between the Israeli and the Palestinian side. Morris concluded that the \"decisive cause\" for the abandonment by Palestinian Arabs of their settlements was predominantly related to, or caused by, actions of the Jewish forces (citing actual physical expulsions, military assaults on settlements, fear of being caught up in fighting, the fall of nearby settlements, and propaganda inciting flight), while abandonment due to orders by the Arab leadership was decisive in only six out of the 392 depopulated Arab settlements analysed by him. Over 700,000 Jews emigrated to Israel between 1948 and 1952, with approximately 285,000 of them from Arab countries.\n\nIn 1956, Egypt closed the Straits of Tiran to Israeli shipping, and blockaded the Gulf of Aqaba, in contravention of the Constantinople Convention of 1888. Many argued that this was also a violation of the 1949 Armistice Agreements. On 26 July 1956, Egypt nationalized the Suez Canal Company, and closed the canal to Israeli shipping. Israel responded on 29 October 1956, by invading the Sinai Peninsula with British and French support. During the Suez Crisis, Israel captured the Gaza Strip and Sinai Peninsula. The United States and the United Nations soon pressured it into a ceasefire. Israel agreed to withdraw from Egyptian territory. Egypt agreed to freedom of navigation in the region and the demilitarization of the Sinai. The United Nations Emergency Force (UNEF) was created and deployed to oversee the demilitarization. The UNEF was only deployed on the Egyptian side of the border, as Israel refused to allow them on its territory.\n\nIsrael completed work on a national water carrier, a huge engineering project designed to transfer Israel's allocation of the Jordan river's waters towards the south of the country in realization of Ben-Gurion's dream of mass Jewish settlement of the Negev desert. The Arabs responded by trying to divert the headwaters of the Jordan, leading to growing conflict between Israel and Syria.\n\nThe PLO (Palestinian Liberation Organization) was first established in 1964, under a charter including a commitment to \"[t]he liberation of Palestine [which] will destroy the Zionist and imperialist presence...\" (PLO Charter, Article 22, 1968).\n\nOn 19 May 1967, Egypt expelled UNEF observers, and deployed 100,000 soldiers in the Sinai Peninsula. It again closed the Straits of Tiran to Israeli shipping, returning the region to the way it was in 1956 when Israel was blockaded.\n\nOn 30 May 1967, Jordan signed a mutual defense pact with Egypt. Egypt mobilized Sinai units, crossing UN lines (after having expelled the UN border monitors) and mobilized and massed on Israel's southern border. On 5 June, Israel launched an attack on Egypt. The Israeli Air Force (IAF) destroyed most of the Egyptian Air Force in a surprise attack, then turned east to destroy the Jordanian, Syrian and Iraqi air forces. This strike was the crucial element in Israel's victory in the Six-Day War. At the war's end, Israel had gained control of the Sinai Peninsula, the Gaza Strip, the West Bank (including East Jerusalem), Shebaa farms, and the Golan Heights. The results of the war affect the geopolitics of the region to this day.\n\nAt the end of August 1967, Arab leaders met in Khartoum in response to the war, to discuss the Arab position toward Israel. They reached consensus that there should be no recognition, no peace, and no negotiations with the State of Israel, the so-called \"three no's\".\n\nIn 1969, Egypt initiated the War of Attrition, with the goal of exhausting Israel into surrendering the Sinai Peninsula. The war ended following Gamal Abdel Nasser's death in 1970. Once Sadat took over, he tried to forge positive relations with the USA, hoping that they would put pressure on Israel to return the land, by expelling 15,000 Russian advisors from Egypt.\n\nOn 6 October 1973, Syria and Egypt staged a surprise attack on Israel on Yom Kippur, the holiest day of the Jewish calendar. The Israeli military were caught off guard and unprepared, and took about three days to fully mobilize. This led other Arab states to send troops to reinforce the Egyptians and Syrians. In addition, these Arab countries agreed to enforce an oil embargo on industrial nations including the U.S, Japan and Western European Countries. These OPEC countries increased the price of oil fourfold, and used it as a political weapon to gain support against Israel. The Yom Kippur War accommodated indirect confrontation between the US and the Soviet Union. When Israel had turned the tide of war, the USSR threatened military intervention. The United States, wary of nuclear war, secured a ceasefire on 25 October.\n\nFollowing the Camp David Accords of the late 1970s, Israel and Egypt signed a peace treaty in March 1979. Under its terms, the Sinai Peninsula returned to Egyptian hands, and the Gaza Strip remained under Israeli control, to be included in a future Palestinian state. The agreement also provided for the free passage of Israeli ships through the Suez Canal and recognition of the Straits of Tiran and the Gulf of Aqaba as international waterways.\n\nIn October 1994, Israel and Jordan signed a peace agreement, which stipulated mutual cooperation, an end of hostilities, the fixing of the Israel-Jordan border, and a resolution of other issues. The conflict between them had cost roughly 18.3 billion dollars. Its signing is also closely linked with the efforts to create peace between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) representing the Palestinian National Authority (PNA). It was signed at the southern border crossing of Arabah on 26 October 1994 and made Jordan only the second Arab country (after Egypt) to sign a peace accord with Israel.\n\nIsrael and Iraq have been implacable foes since 1948. Iraq sent its troops to participate in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, and later backed Egypt and Syria in the 1967 Six-Day War and in the 1973 Yom Kippur War.\n\nIn June 1981, Israel attacked and destroyed newly built Iraqi nuclear facilities in Operation Opera.\n\nDuring the Gulf War in 1991, Iraq fired 39 Scud missiles into Israel, in the hopes of uniting the Arab world against the coalition which sought to liberate Kuwait. At the behest of the United States, Israel did not respond to this attack in order to prevent a greater outbreak of war.\n\nIn 1970, following an extended civil war, King Hussein expelled the Palestine Liberation Organization from Jordan. September 1970 is known as the Black September in Arab history and sometimes is referred to as the \"era of regrettable events\". It was a month when Hashemite King Hussein of Jordan moved to quash the autonomy of Palestinian organisations and restore his monarchy's rule over the country. The violence resulted in the deaths of tens of thousands of people, the vast majority Palestinians. Armed conflict lasted until July 1971 with the expulsion of the PLO and thousands of Palestinian fighters to Lebanon. The PLO resettled in Lebanon, from which it staged raids into Israel. In 1978, Israel launched Operation Litani, in which it together with the South Lebanon Army forced the PLO to retreat north of the Litani river. In 1981 another conflict between Israel and the PLO broke out, which ended with a ceasefire agreement that did not solve the core of the conflict. In June 1982, Israel invaded Lebanon. Within two months the PLO agreed to withdraw thence.\n\nIn March 1983, Israel and Lebanon signed a ceasefire agreement. However, Syria pressured President Amine Gemayel into nullifying the truce in March 1984. By 1985, Israeli forces withdrew to a 15 km wide southern strip of Lebanon, following which the conflict continued on a lower scale, with relatively low casualties on both sides. In 1993 and 1996, Israel launched major operations against the Shiite militia of Hezbollah, which had become an emergent threat. In May 2000, the newly elected government of Ehud Barak authorized a withdrawal from Southern Lebanon, fulfilling an election promise to do so well ahead of a declared deadline. The hasty withdrawal lead to the immediate collapse of the South Lebanon Army, and many members either got arrested or fled to Israel.\n\nThe 1970s were marked by a large number of major, international terrorist attacks, including the Lod Airport massacre and the Munich Olympics Massacre in 1972, and the Entebbe Hostage Taking in 1976, with over 100 Jewish hostages of different nationalities kidnapped and held in Uganda.\n\nIn December 1987, the First Intifada began. The First Intifada was a mass Palestinian uprising against Israeli rule in the Palestinian territories. The rebellion began in the Jabalia refugee camp and quickly spread throughout Gaza and the West Bank. Palestinian actions ranged from civil disobedience to violence. In addition to general strikes, boycotts on Israeli products, graffiti and barricades, Palestinian demonstrations that included stone-throwing by youths against the Israel Defense Forces brought the Intifada international attention. The Israeli army's heavy handed response to the demonstrations, with live ammunition, beatings and mass arrests, brought international condemnation. The PLO, which until then had never been recognised as the leaders of the Palestinian people by Israel, was invited to peace negotiations the following year, after it recognized Israel and renounced terrorism.\n\nIn mid-1993, Israeli and Palestinian representatives engaged in peace talks in Oslo, Norway. As a result, in September 1993, Israel and the PLO signed the Oslo Accords, known as the \"Declaration of Principles\" or Oslo I; in side letters, Israel recognized the PLO as the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people while the PLO recognized the right of the state of Israel to exist and renounced terrorism, violence and its desire for the destruction of Israel.\n\nThe Oslo II agreement was signed in 1995 and detailed the division of the West Bank into Areas A, B, and C. Area A was land under full Palestinian civilian control. In Area A, Palestinians were also responsible for internal security. The Oslo agreements remain important documents in Israeli-Palestinian relations.\n\nThe Second Intifada forced Israel to rethink its relationship and policies towards the Palestinians. Following a series of suicide bombings and attacks, the Israeli army launched Operation Defensive Shield. It was the largest military operation conducted by Israel since the Six-Day War.\n\nAs violence between the Israeli army and Palestinian militants intensified, Israel expanded its security apparatus around the West Bank by re-taking many parts of land in Area A. Israel established a complicated system of roadblocks and checkpoints around major Palestinian areas to deter violence and protect Israeli settlements. However, since 2008, the IDF has slowly transferred authority to Palestinian security forces.\n\nIsrael's then prime minister Ariel Sharon began a policy of disengagement from the Gaza Strip in 2003. This policy was fully implemented in August 2005. Sharon's announcement to disengage from Gaza came as a tremendous shock to his critics both on the left and on the right. A year previously, he had commented that the fate of the most far-flung settlements in Gaza, Netzararem and Kfar Darom, was regarded in the same light as that of Tel Aviv. The formal announcements to evacuate seventeen Gaza settlements and another four in the West Bank in February 2004 represented the first reversal for the settler movement since 1968. It divided his party. It was strongly supported by Trade and Industry Minister Ehud Olmert and Tzipi Livni, the Minister for Immigration and Absorption, but Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom and Finance Minister Benjamin Netanyahu strongly condemned it. It was also uncertain whether this was simply the beginning of further evacuation.\n\nIn June 2006, Hamas militants infiltrated an army post near the Israeli side of the Gaza Strip and abducted Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit. Two IDF soldiers were killed in the attack, while Shalit was wounded after his tank was hit with an RPG. Three days later Israel launched Operation Summer Rains to secure the release of Shalit. He was held hostage by Hamas, who barred the International Red Cross from seeing him, until 18 October 2011, when he was exchanged for 1,027 Palestinian prisoners.\n\nIn July 2006, Hezbollah fighters crossed the border from Lebanon into Israel, attacked and killed eight Israeli soldiers, and abducted two others as hostages, setting off the 2006 Lebanon War which caused much destruction in Lebanon. A UN-sponsored ceasefire went into effect on 14 August 2006, officially ending the conflict. The conflict killed over a thousand Lebanese and over 150 Israelis, severely damaged Lebanese civil infrastructure, and displaced approximately one million Lebanese and 300,000–500,000 Israelis, although most were able to return to their homes. After the ceasefire, some parts of Southern Lebanon remained uninhabitable due to Israeli unexploded cluster bomblets.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Battle of Gaza, where Hamas seized control of the Gaza Strip in a violent civil war with rival Fatah, Israel placed restrictions on its border with Gaza and ended economic cooperation with the Palestinian leadership based there. Israel and Egypt have imposed a blockade of the Gaza Strip since 2007. Israel maintains the blockade is necessary to limit Palestinian rocket attacks from Gaza and to prevent Hamas from smuggling advanced rockets and weapons capable of hitting its cities.\n\nOn 6 September 2007, in Operation Orchard, Israel bombed an eastern Syrian complex which was allegedly a nuclear reactor being built with assistance from North Korea. Israel had also bombed Syria in 2003.\n\nIn April 2008, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad told a Qatari newspaper that Syria and Israel had been discussing a peace treaty for a year, with Turkey as a go-between. This was confirmed in May 2008 by a spokesman for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert. As well as a peace treaty, the future of the Golan Heights is being discussed. President Assad said \"there would be no direct negotiations with Israel until a new US president takes office.\"\n\nSpeaking in Jerusalem on 26 August 2008, then United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice criticized Israel's increased settlement construction in the West Bank as detrimental to the peace process. Rice's comments came amid reports that Israeli construction in the disputed territory had increased by a factor of 1.8 over 2007 levels.\n\nA fragile six-month truce between Hamas and Israel expired on 19 December 2008; attempts at extending the truce failed amid accusations of breaches from both sides. Following the expiration, Israel launched a raid on a tunnel suspected of being used to kidnap Israeli soldiers, which killed several Hamas fighters. Following this, Hamas resumed rocket and mortar attacks on Israeli cities, most notably firing over 60 rockets on 24 December. On 27 December 2008, Israel launched Operation Cast Lead against Hamas. Numerous human rights organizations accused Israel and Hamas of committing war crimes.\n\nIn 2009 Israel placed a 10-month settlement freeze on the West Bank. Then United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton praised the freeze as an \"unprecedented\" gesture that could \"help revive Middle East talks.\"\n\nA raid was carried out by Israeli naval forces on six ships of the \"Gaza Freedom Flotilla\" in May 2010 after the ships refused to dock at Port Ashdod. On the MV \"Mavi Marmara\", activists clashed with the Israeli boarding party. During the fighting, nine activists were killed by Israeli special forces. Widespread international condemnation of and reaction to the raid followed, Israel–Turkey relations were strained, and Israel subsequently eased its blockade on the Gaza Strip. Several dozen other passengers and seven Israeli soldiers were injured, with some of the commandos suffering from gunshot wounds.\n\nFollowing the latest round of peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, 13 Palestinian militant movements led by Hamas initiated a terror campaign designed to derail and disrupt the negotiations. Attacks on Israelis have increased since August 2010, after 4 Israeli civilians were killed by Hamas militants.\nPalestinian militants have increased the frequency of rocket attacks aimed at Israelis. On 2 August, Hamas militants launched seven Katyusha rockets at Eilat and Aqaba, killing one Jordanian civilian and wounding 4 others.\n\nIntermittent fighting continued since then, including 680 rocket attacks on Israel in 2011. On 14 November 2012, Israel killed Ahmed Jabari, a leader of Hamas's military wing, launching Operation Pillar of Cloud. Hamas and Israel agreed to an Egyptian-mediated ceasefire on 21 November.\n\nThe Palestinian Centre for Human Rights said that 158 Palestinians were killed during the operation, of which: 102 were civilians, 55 were militants and one was a policeman; 30 were children and 13 were women. B'Tselem stated that according to its initial findings, which covered only the period between 14 and 19 November 102 Palestinians were killed in the Gaza Strip, 40 of them civilians. According to Israeli figures, 120 combatants and 57 civilians were killed. International outcry ensued, with many criticizing Israel for what much of the international community perceived as a disproportionately violent response. Protests took place on hundreds of college campuses across the U.S., and in front of the Israeli consulate in New York. Additional protests took place throughout the Middle East, throughout Europe, and in parts of South America. However, the governments of the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, France, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic and Netherlands expressed support for Israel's right to defend itself, and/or condemned the Hamas rocket attacks on Israel.\n\nFollowing an escalation of rocket attacks by Hamas, Israel started an operation in the Gaza Strip on 8 July 2014.\n\nIsrael's military role in the Syrian Civil War has been limited to missile strikes, which until 2017 were not officially acknowledged. While the Israeli official position is neutrality in the conflict, Israel is opposed to Iran's presence in Syria. Israel has provided humanitarian aid to Syrian war victims, an effort that was drastically geared up since June 2016 when the \"Operation Good Neighbour\" was launched by the Israeli military. There are many different national interests playing a role in the war. One of them is Iran, which Israel is concerned could gain too much regional influence. Iranian proxies such as Hezbollah are suspected of carrying out attacks against Israeli positions on the borders to Syria and Lebanon, and Israel is suspected of carrying out air strikes against convoys transporting weapons to such organisations.\n\nOn 9 December 2017, US president Donald Trump announced the United States recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, prompting condemnation by other world leaders as well as the 2018 Gaza border protests. The new United States Embassy opened in Jerusalem on 14 May 2018.\n\nA report by Strategic Foresight Group has estimated the opportunity cost of conflict for the Middle East from 1991–2010 at $12 trillion. The report's opportunity cost calculates the peace GDP of countries in the Middle East by comparing the current GDP to the potential GDP in times of peace. Israel's share is almost $1 trillion, with Iraq and Saudi Arabia having approximately $2.2 and $4.5 trillion, respectively. In other words, had there been peace and cooperation between Israel and Arab League nations since 1991, the average Israeli citizen would be earning over $44,000 instead of $23,000 in 2010.\n\nIn terms of the human cost, it is estimated that the conflict has taken 92,000 lives (74,000 military and 18,000 civilian from 1945 to 1995).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1728479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1728479", "title": "Archaeological theory", "text": "Archaeological theory\n\nArchaeological theory refers to the various intellectual frameworks through which archaeologists interpret archaeological data. Archaeological theory functions as the application of philosophy of science to archaeology, and is occasionally referred to as philosophy of archaeology. There is no one singular theory of archaeology, but many, with different archaeologists believing that information should be interpreted in different ways. Throughout the history of the discipline, various trends of support for certain archaeological theories have emerged, peaked, and in some cases died out. Different archaeological theories differ on what the goals of the discipline are and how they can be achieved.\n\nSome archaeological theories, such as processual archaeology, holds that archaeologists are able to develop accurate, objective information about past societies by applying the scientific method to their investigations, whilst others, such as post-processual archaeology, dispute this, and claim all archaeological data is tainted by human interpretation and social factors, and any interpretation they make about past societies is therefore subjective.\n\nOther archaeological theories, such as Marxist archaeology, instead interpret archaeological evidence within a framework for how its proponents believe society operates. Marxist archaeologists in general believe that the bipolarism that exists between the processual and post-processual debates is an opposition inherent within knowledge production and is in accord with a dialectical understanding of the world. Many Marxist archaeologists believe that it is this polarism within the anthropological discipline (and all academic disciplines) that fuels the questions that spur progress in archaeological theory and knowledge. This constant interfacing and conflict between the extremes of the two heuristic playing grounds (subjective vs. objective) is believed to result in a continuous reconstruction of the past by scholars.\n\nSince the early 20th century, most accounts of archaeological methodology have accepted the data that is uncovered by the archaeologist is subsequently interpreted through a theoretical viewpoint. Nevertheless, the archaeological community is divided over the extent to which theory pervades the discipline. On one side, there are those who believe that certain archaeological techniques – such as excavation or recording – are neutral and outside of the bounds of theory, while on the other are those who believe that these too are also influenced by theoretical considerations. Archaeologist Ian Hodder, a prominent advocate of the latter view, criticised the alternate approach by highlighting that methodological decisions, such as where to open a trench, how diligently to excavate a stratigraphic layer and whether to keep every artefact discovered, are all based on prior theoretical interpretations of the site, and that even excavatory techniques could not therefore escape the realm of theory. Those who take the former approach have sometimes tried to separate the raw data from the theoretical interpretations in their publications, but have come under criticism from those, such as Hodder, who argue that theoretical interpretation pervades the entire archaeological methodology, and therefore cannot be separated from the raw data.\nIn his overview of archaeological theory, the archaeologist Matthew Johnson of the University of Southampton put forward four arguments for why theory was so important to the archaeological discipline, and therefore why all archaeologists should learn about the subject. First, he noted that all of the arguments for why archaeology benefited society were based in theory, and that archaeologists wanting to defend their discipline from its critics would therefore require a grounding in theory. Second, he highlighted that theory was required to compare two different interpretations of the past and decide which one was the more likely. Third, he asserted that theory was needed for the archaeologist to accept and admit to their own personal biases and agendas in interpreting the material evidence. Finally, Johnson put forward what he considered to be the most important reason for the necessity of understanding theory; that all archaeologists, as human beings, are innately theoretical, in that they naturally make use of \"theories, concepts, ideas, assumptions\" in their work. As such, he asserts that any archaeologist claiming to be \"atheoretical\" is mistaken, and that in actuality they cloud their own theoretical position under such jargon as \"common sense\". He proceeded to suggest that most of those western archaeologists who claim to eschew theory in favour of a \"common sense\" approach were actually exhibiting cultural \"machismo\" by playing on the stereotype that intelligent discussions and debates were effeminate and therefore of lesser value.\n\nPeople's interest of the past has existed since antiquity. During the Western world's Medieval period six main concepts were formed that would come to influence archaeological theory to some degree:\n\n1) The world is of recent, supernatural origin at best no more than a few thousand years old\n\n2) The physical world has degraded since God's original creation\n\n3) Humanity was created in the Garden of Eden \n\n4) Standards of human conduct naturally degrade\n\n5) History of the world is a sequence of unique events\n\n6) Culturally, socially, and intellectually the people of the past were identical to the present\n\nThe coming of the Renaissance stimulated an interest in the past but it was more on the level of collecting artifacts and romanticized theories of their origin. It was not until the 19th century the first elements of actual systematic study of older civilizations began but they tended to be designed to support imperial nationalism.\n\nDevelopments in the 19th century with Hutton and Lyell's theory of uniformitarianism and Darwin's theory of natural selection set the stage for the modern scientific investigation into the origin of humanity. \n\nAfter Darwin came a mode of archaeology known as cultural, or culture history, according to which sites are grouped into distinct \"cultures\" to determine the geographic spread and time span of these cultures and to reconstruct the interactions and flow of ideas between them. Cultural history, as the name suggests, was closely allied with the science of history. Cultural historians employed the \"normative model of culture\", the principle that each culture is a set of norms governing human behaviour. Thus, cultures can be distinguished by patterns of craftsmanship; for instance, if one excavated sherd of pottery is decorated with a triangular pattern, and another sherd with a chequered pattern, they likely belong to different cultures. Such an approach naturally leads to a view of the past as a collection of different populations, classified by their differences and by their influences on each other. Changes in behaviour could be explained by diffusion whereby new ideas moved, through social and economic ties, from one culture to another. \n\nThe Australian archaeologist Vere Gordon Childe was one of the first to explore and expand this concept of the relationships between cultures especially in the context of prehistoric Europe. By the 1920s sufficient archaeological material had been excavated and studied to suggest that diffusionism was not the only mechanism through which change occurred. Influenced by the political upheaval of the inter-war period Childe then argued that revolutions had wrought major changes in past societies. He conjectured a Neolithic Revolution, which inspired people to settle and farm rather than hunt nomadically. This would have led to considerable changes in social organisation, which Childe argued led to a second Urban Revolution that created the first cities. Such macro-scale thinking was in itself revolutionary and Childe's ideas are still widely admired and respected.\n\nFranz Boas argued that cultures were unique entities shaped by a unique sequence of events. As a result there was no universal standard by which one culture could be compared with another. This line of thought combined with John Lubbock's concept that Western civilization would overwhelm and eventually destroy primitive cultures resulted in anthropologists recording mountains of information on primitive peoples before they vanished.\n\nNational archaeology used cultural-historical concepts to instill pride and raise the morale of certain nationalities or racial groups and in many countries it remains the dominate method of archeology.\n\nAdapting some of the concepts of Darwinian natural selection for use outside of the discipline of evolutionary biology while employing the Marxist historical-economic theory of dialectical materialism, Soviet archaeologists resumed the method of use-wear analysis and, beginning in the 1930s, tried to explain observed changes in the archaeological record in terms of internal social dynamics.\n\nIn the 1960s, a number of young, primarily American archaeologists, such as Lewis Binford, rebelled against the paradigms of cultural history. They proposed a \"New Archaeology\", which would be more \"scientific\" and \"anthropological\". They came to see culture as a set of behavioural processes and traditions. (In time, this view gave rise to the term processual archaeology). Processualists borrowed from the exact sciences the idea of hypothesis testing and the scientific method. They believed that an archaeologist should develop one or more hypotheses about a culture under study, and conduct excavations with the intention of testing these hypotheses against fresh evidence. They had also become frustrated with the older generation's teachings through which cultures had taken precedence over the people being studied themselves. It was becoming clear, largely through the evidence of anthropology, that ethnic groups and their development were not always entirely congruent with the cultures in the archaeological record.\n\nAn approach to the study of archaeological materials formulated by Michael B. Schiffer in the mid-1970s that privileged the analysis of human behaviour and individual actions, especially in terms of the making, using, and disposal of material culture. In particular this focused on observing and understanding what people actually did, while refraining from considering people’s thoughts and intentions in explaining that behaviour. A related area is Human behavioral ecology, which models material traces of human behaviour in terms of adaptations and optimisations.\n\nIn the 1980s, a new movement arose led by the British archaeologists Michael Shanks, Christopher Tilley, Daniel Miller and Ian Hodder. It questioned processualism's appeals to science and impartiality by claiming that every archaeologist is in fact biased by his or her personal experience and background, and thus truly scientific archaeological work is difficult or impossible. This is especially true in archaeology where experiments (excavations) cannot possibly be repeatable by others as the scientific method dictates. Exponents of this relativistic method, called post-processual archaeology, analysed not only the material remains they excavated, but also themselves, their attitudes and opinions. The different approaches to archaeological evidence which every person brings to his or her interpretation result in different constructs of the past for each individual. The benefit of this approach has been recognised in such fields as visitor interpretation, cultural resource management and ethics in archaeology as well as fieldwork. It has also been seen to have parallels with culture history. Processualists critique it, however, as without scientific merit. They point out that analysing yourself doesn't make a hypothesis any more valid, since a scientist will likely be more biased about himself than about artifacts. And even if you can't perfectly replicate digs, one should try to follow science as rigorously as possible. After all, perfectly scientific experiments can be performed on artifacts recovered or system theories constructed from dig information.\n\nPost-processualism provided an umbrella for all those who decried the processual model of culture, which many feminist and neo-Marxist archaeologists for example believed treated people as mindless automatons and ignored their individuality.\n\nThis divergence of archaeological theory has not progressed identically in all parts of the world where archaeology is conducted or in the many sub-fields of the discipline. Traditional heritage attractions often retain an ostensibly straightforward Culture History element in their interpretation material whilst university archaeology departments provide an environment to explore more abstruse methods of understanding and explaining the past. Australian archaeologists, and many others who work with indigenous peoples whose ideas of heritage differ from western concepts, have embraced post-processualism. Professional archaeologists in the United States however are predominantly processualist and this last approach is common in other countries where commercial Cultural Resources Management is practised.\n\nIn 1973, David Clarke of Cambridge University would publish an academic paper in \"Antiquity\" claiming that as a discipline, archaeology had moved from its original \"noble innocence\" through to \"self-consciousness\" and then onto \"critical self-consciousness\", a symptom of which was the increasing recognition and emphasis on archaeological theory. As a result, he argued, archaeology had suffered a \"loss of innocence\" as archaeologists became sceptical of the work of their forebears.\n\nArchaeology has been and remains a cultural, gender and political battlefield. Many groups have tried to use archaeology to prove some current cultural or political point. Marxist or Marxist-influenced archaeologists in the USSR and the UK (among others) often try to prove the truth of dialectical materialism or to highlight the past (and present) role of conflict between interest groups (e.g. male vs. female, elders vs. juniors, workers vs. owners) in generating social change. Some contemporary cultural groups have tried, with varying degrees of success, to use archaeology to prove their historic right to ownership of an area of land. Many schools of archaeology have been patriarchal, assuming that in prehistory men produced most of the food by hunting, and women produced little nutrition by gathering; more recent studies have exposed the inadequacy of many of these theories. Some used the \"Great Ages\" theory implicit in the three-age system to argue continuous upward progress by Western civilisation. Much contemporary archaeology is influenced by neo-Darwinian evolutionary thought, phenomenology, postmodernism, agency theory, cognitive science, functionalism, gender-based and Feminist archaeology and Systems theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1707310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1707310", "title": "Arthur Moeller van den Bruck", "text": "Arthur Moeller van den Bruck\n\nArthur Moeller van den Bruck (23 April 1876 – 30 May 1925) was a German cultural historian and writer, best known for his controversial 1923 book \"Das Dritte Reich\" (\"The Third Reich\"), which promoted German nationalism and was a strong influence on the Conservative Revolutionary movement and later the Nazi Party. He did not support the party, however. From 1906 to 1922, he also published Elisabeth Kaerrick's first full German translation of Dostoyevsky's works.\n\nArthur Wilhelm Ernst Victor Moeller van den Bruck was born on 23 April 1876 in Solingen, Westphalia as the only child of bourgeois parents. His father was Ottomar Victor Moeller, a German state architect, and his mother was Elise van den Bruck, the daughter of Dutch architect van den Broeck and—allegedly—a Spanish mother. At birth Moeller van den Broek was assigned the first name \"Arthur\" (in honor of Arthur Schopenhauer), but he would later drop the part from his name.\n\nHe was expelled from a gymnasium (a type of German secondary school) for his indifference towards his studies. The young Moeller van den Bruck believed German literature and philosophy, particularly the works of Nietzsche to be a more vital education. Afterwards, he continued his studies on his own in Berlin, Paris, and Italy.\n\nIn 1897 he married Hedda Maase (later Eulenberg). She divorced him in 1904.\n\nMoeller van den Bruck's eight-volume cultural history \"Die Deutschen, unsere Menschengeschichte\" (\"The Germans, our people's history\") appeared in 1905. In 1907 he returned to Germany and in 1914 enlisted in the army at the start of World War I. Soon thereafter, he joined the press office of the Foreign Ministry and was attached to the foreign affairs section of the German Supreme Army Command.\n\nHis essay \"Der Preußische Stil\" (\"The Prussian Style\"), in which he celebrated the essence of Prussia as \"the will to the state\", appeared in 1916, marking his embrace of nationalism. It showed him as an opponent of parliamentary democracy and liberalism, and exerted a strong influence on the Jungkonservativen (\"young conservative movement\").\n\nAfter a nervous breakdown, he committed suicide in Berlin on May 30, 1925.\n\nMoeller van den Bruck was the joint founder of the \"June Club\" (Juniklub), which sought to influence young conservatives in the fight against the Treaty of Versailles. Later, it was renamed \"Deutscher Herrenklub\" (German Gentlemen's Club): it became very powerful, helping Franz von Papen to become Reichskanzler in 1932.\n\nIn his 1918 book \"Das Recht der jungen Völker\" (\"The Right Of Young Nations\"), Moeller van den Bruck presents a version of the \"Sonderweg\" theory, in which he developed the theme of Russia as representing Communist civilization and the United States representing capitalist civilization, both of which are rejected. Germany is held up as the model between the two extremes. In the same book, Moeller van den Bruck advocated an expressly anti-Western and anti-imperialist philosophy of the state (\"Staatstheorie\"), which attempted to bridge the gap between nationalism and concepts of social justice.\n\nHe had a major influence on the \"Jungkonservativen\" (Young Conservatives) in their opposition to the Weimar Republic. He may have also supplied the Nazis with some of the concepts underpinning their movement, though upon meeting Hitler in 1922, Bruck rejected him for his \"proletarian primitiveness\". The Nazis still made use of his ideas where they could, including appropriating the title of his 1923 book \"Das Dritte Reich\" (meaning \"The Third Reich\") as a political slogan and the Germanic \"Übermensch\" idea.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34152367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34152367", "title": "Ashley Cowie", "text": "Ashley Cowie\n\nAshley Lambie Cowie (born 1973) is a Scottish historian, author, photographer, television presenter and producer.\n\nHe grew up in the Caithness town of Wick, in the north of Scotland, and attended Wick High School. He then moved to Glasgow to study photography and audio visual communications. After returning north and establishing a number of businesses, including a fishmongers business for ten years in Wick and Thurso, Cowie began exploring his interest in archaeology and cryptography. He has been commissioned to investigate and decode several ancient carved symbols for historical and research societies, including a group of Scottish Knights Templar. The author of \"The Rosslyn Matrix\" (2007) he also lectures on The International Science Festival circuit and was featured on the Discovery Channel in April 2008.\n\nBeginning in 1993, Cowie explored the landscapes of northern Scotland and over the following decade he discovered many prehistoric artefacts including Meolithic & Neolithic flint scatters and carved artefacts. In 2000, Cowie was involved in field walking projects in Caithness which revealed lithic scatters around the shores of Loch Watten and Yarrows, which was new evidence of early prehistoric settlement in Caithness. He went on to discover some of the first flint tools from the Mesolithic lithic scatter at Oliclett in the Yarrows basin which became one of the most significant archeological digs in British history. Cowie began presenting his work in up-beat lectures at the International Science Festival in Orkney where his lecture entitled \"The Rope Age\" received a standing ovation from over 100 of the world's most acclaimed professors of archaeology. After this lecture, Cowie was elected as a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland and his work was featured in several \"Scotsman\" newspaper features.\n\nBetween 2002 and 2009, Cowie was privately commissioned to conduct research projects at various historic locations and during this time his discoveries in the architecture and symbols of Rosslyn Chapel were published in the best selling \"The Book of Hiram\", where he is credited for having discovered one of the earliest mapping systems known to date. In his own books, \"The Rosslyn Matrix\" (2007) and \"The Rosslyn Templar\" (2009), he detailed the possible connections between the Clan Sinclair, the chapel and the activities of the Knights Templar. Cowie's last book 'The Super Star - America's Royal Secret' 2011 solves a long-standing historical mystery recounting his discovery of an ancient map, which leads him on an adventure through the Scottish Highlands and finally to a far-flung island where he discovers evidence of the, pre-Columbian, Norse discovery of America.\n\nIn 2009, Cowie became Resident Historian on STV's \"The Hour Show\", where he wrote and presented a series of live TV episodes discussing the origins of Scottish traditions and superstitions. At this time the Scottish media branded him \"The Hunky Historian\". He next appeared as an expert/sceptical historian on Sky Living TV's 2010 \"Paranormal Investigation Live\" where he analysed apparently supernatural occurrences and debunked them with logic and reason. Cowie also appeared as an expert historian in History Channel's \"Holy Grail in America\". In 2011, Cowie was credited as producer, writer and host, of NBC Universal's TV series, \"Legend Quest\". This fast-paced, cinematic, action-adventure series followed Cowie as he travelled the world in search of history's greatest and most mysterious artifacts. Each of the six one-hour episodes include Indiana Jones-type adventure and \"Da Vinci Code\"-style puzzle solving. In \"Legend Quest\", Cowie hacked through dense jungles, dived in volcanic lakes, trekked through forbidding deserts and climbed some of the highest mountains in the Peruvian Andes. The show premiered on Syfy Channel on 13 July 2011 attracting 1.2 million viewers, boosting SyFy's ratings by 19%. The series is a co-production from BASE Productions' John Brenkus and Mickey Stern and Universal Networks International. \"Legend Quest\" has aired in the US, Canada, Australia, Asia and Europe and premiered in the UK on SyFy Channel on 23 April 2012.\n\nCowie's research was featured in the \"Scottish Sun\" 's \"2012 Lost Treasure Week\", where he wrote several articles about his searches for various lost treasures. Cowie recently featured in the documentary series \"Great Estates Scotland\", which aired on PBS in the US and on History Channel elsewhere. In 2015 he discovered a witches' stella stone and a wizards' grave, details of which he published on ashleycowie.com. He also published the results of a 12 year long research project in which he has amassed the world's largest photographic and topographical collection on kerbstone stonemasons' marks. In 2016 Cowie published two new non-fiction historical books: \"Secret Viking Sea Chart\" and \"A Twist in Time\". He also teamed up with BBC journalist Sarah Mack to present a new series of \"The People's History Show\" on STV, beginning on 6 September 2016. Taking a look back in time to discover the stories that make up Scotland's people's history, the first episode covered the tragic story of Benny Lynch, Scotland's greatest boxer, the grisly tale of Aberdeen's 19th century body-snatchers,and the bizarre death in Edinburgh of one of the world's great illusionists.\n\n"}
{"id": "44770470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44770470", "title": "Bureau 121", "text": "Bureau 121\n\nBureau 121 is a North Korean cyberwarfare agency, which is part of the Reconnaissance General Bureau of North Korea's military. According to American authorities, the General Bureau of Reconnaissance (also termed Reconnaissance General Bureau) manages clandestine operations and has six bureaus. Cyber operations are thought to be a cost-effective way for North Korea to maintain an asymmetric military option, as well as a means to gather intelligence; its primary intelligence targets are South Korea, Japan, and the United States. Bureau 121 was created in 1998.\n\nAnother known cyberwarfare unit in the General Bureau of Reconnaissance is called No. 91 Office.\n\nAccording to a report by Reuters, Bureau 121 is staffed by some of North Korea's most talented computer experts and is run by the Korean military. A defector indicated that the agency has about 1,800 specialists. Many of the bureau's hackers are hand-picked graduates of the University of Automation, Pyongyang and spend five years in training. While these specialists are scattered around the world, their families benefit from special privileges at home.\n\nThe activities of the agency came to public attention in December 2014 when Sony Pictures canceled the opening of its movie \"The Interview\" after its computers had been hacked. Bureau 121 has been blamed for the cyber breach, but North Korea has rejected this accusation.\n\nMuch of the agency's activity has been directed at South Korea. Prior to the attack at Sony, North Korea was said to have attacked more than 30,000 PCs in South Korea affecting banks and broadcasting companies as well as the website of South Korean President Park Geun-Hye North Korea has also been thought to have been responsible for infecting thousands of South Korean smartphones in 2013 with a malicious gaming application. The attacks on South Korea were allegedly conducted by a group then called DarkSeoul Gang and estimated by the computer security company Symantec to have only 10 to 50 members with a \"unique\" ability to infiltrate websites.\n\nAmerican authorities believe that North Korea has military offensive cyber operations capability and may have been responsible for malicious cyber activity since 2009. As part of its sophisticated set-up, cells from Bureau 121 are believed to be operating around the world. One of the suspected locations of a Bureau 121 cell is the Chilbosan Hotel in Shenyang, China.\n\nSouth Korea has also repeatedly blamed Bureau 121 for conducting GPS jamming aimed at South Korea. The most recent case of jamming occurred on 1 April 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "750055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=750055", "title": "Caspar Abel", "text": "Caspar Abel\n\nCaspar Abel (14 July 1676 – 11 January 1763) was a German theologian, historian and poet.\n\nAbel was born in Hindenburg in der Altmark, the son of a pastor, and gained his theological education in Braunschweig and Helmstedt. In 1696 he became rector in Osterburg, in 1698 at the \"Johannisschule\" in Halberstadt. In 1718 he became pastor in Westdorf near Aschersleben where he died in 1763. His son Joachim Gottwalt Abel (1723–1806) also became a pastor.\n\nNote: From 1748 to 1764 he was assisted by Johann Gottfried Bürger, the father of poet Gottfried August Bürger.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48586338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48586338", "title": "Chung Yangmo", "text": "Chung Yangmo\n\nChung Yangmo (born 1934) is a South Korean art historian, known for his expertise in Korean ceramics.\n\nChung Yangmo was born in 1934 as the fourth and final son of Chung Inbo (; 鄭寅普), a historian and author during the Japanese colonial period. He is an admirer of the works of Joseon Dynasty landscape painter Jeong Seon. He received his B.S. degree in History from Seoul National University in 1958.\n\nChung's family was divided by the Korean War: his father and elder sister Chung Kyung-wan were taken to North Korea in 1950. In 2004 he received news that Kyung-wan was still alive. One of his other elder sisters, Chung Yang-wan (), became a scholar of Korean literature with the Academy of Korean Studies. He met the woman who would become his wife, Ewha Womans University student Lee Jung-won (이중원; 李仲瑗), in 1964 when she was preparing to write her thesis on pottery. He gave up on his plans to study abroad in order to marry her in 1967, and the couple went on to have two sons and a daughter.\n\nChung is a close friend of ceramicist Min Young-ki (민영기; 閔泳麒) and painter Chun Sung-woo (전성우; 全筬雨). In 1998, Min and Chun jointly made a Buncheong-style stoneware bowl for him, which is on display at the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco.\n\nChung began his career in the National Museum of Korea in 1962. For much of his early career he worked under Choi Sun-u (; 崔淳雨), then one of the country's foremost experts on Korean ceramics. In 1963, while holding the position of assistant researcher in the art department of the museum, he participated in fieldwork led by Choi in Yangju, and discovered a kiln from the late Goryeo Dynasty in a village near Dobongsan.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1986, Chung served as director of the Gyeongju National Museum. He went on to become the director of the National Museum of Korea, serving from 1993 to 1999. In May 2003, he was appointed as the new commissioner of the Cultural Heritage Administration of Korea's Cultural Properties Commission. He served in that position until 2005, when he was succeeded by Seoul National University professor Ahn Hwi-joon (안휘준; 安輝濬).\n\nIn 2005, Chung received the Silver Crown of the Order of Cultural Merit from the government of South Korea. In 2013 his fellow scholars published a Festschrift in his honour to celebrate his eightieth year of life (in East Asian age reckoning).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16458531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16458531", "title": "Desiderius of Vienne", "text": "Desiderius of Vienne\n\nDesiderius of Vienne (died 607) was a martyred archbishop of Vienne and a chronicler.\n\nNothing is known about his early years. In 603, in a conflict with Brunhilda of Austrasia, the legitimacy of whose children he had attacked, he was deposed after she combined forces with Aridius, bishop of Lyon. He was stoned to death, some years later, at the order of King Theuderic II of Burgundy.\n\nHe was rebuked by Gregory the Great for his interest in the pagan classics, in a letter provoked by the schooling he was providing for his clergy.\n\nHe is venerated as a saint in the Catholic Church, with his feast days on February 11. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, his feast is celebrated on May 23. A hagiographical work was written about him by the Visigothic king Sisebuto, during the 7th century. A later life was written by Ado of Vienne.\n"}
{"id": "37957369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37957369", "title": "Dexter (malware)", "text": "Dexter (malware)\n\nDexter is a computer virus or point of sale malware which infects computers running Microsoft Windows and was discovered by IT security firm Seculert, in December 2012. It infects PoS systems worldwide and steals sensitive information such as Credit Card and Debit Card information.\n\nIn December 2013, researchers discovered StarDust, a major revision of Dexter, which compromised 20,000 cards in active campaign hitting US merchants.\nIt was one of the first known botnets to target point-of-sale (PoS) terminals used by stores and restaurants to process customers' credit and debit card payments.\n\n"}
{"id": "7299947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7299947", "title": "Fourierism", "text": "Fourierism\n\nFourierism is the systematic set of economic, political, and social beliefs first espoused by French intellectual Charles Fourier (1772–1837). Based upon a belief in the inevitability of communal associations of people who worked and lived together as part of the human future, Fourier's committed supporters referred to his doctrines as Associationism. Political contemporaries and subsequent scholarship has identified Fourier's set of ideas as a form of utopian socialisma phrase which retains mild pejorative overtones.\n\nNever tested in practice at any scale in Fourier's lifetime, Fourierism enjoyed a brief boom in the United States of America during the middle of the 1840sowing largely to the efforts of his American popularizer, Albert Brisbane (1809–1890) and the American Union of Associationistsbut ultimately failed as a social and economic model. The system was briefly revived in the middle 1850s by Victor Considerant (1808–1893), a French disciple of Fourier's who unsuccessfully attempted to relaunch the model in the American state of Texas in the 1850s.\n\nIn contrast to the thoroughly secular communitarianism of his contemporary Robert Owen (1771–1858), Charles Fourier's thinking starts from a presumption of the existence of God and a divine social order on Earth in accordance with the will of God. Fourier saw himself as a figure of world-historical importance akin to Isaac Newton (1643–1727) for having identified the fundamental force driving social development, which he called \"passional attraction\" \"(attraction passionelle).\"\n\nFourier believed that the structure of the worldthat is the economic, political, and social systeminhibited humanity from the pursuit of their God-given individual passions, thereby preventing mankind from achieving a state of universal harmony. Rather than seeking to mold individuals to fit the existing form of economic, political, and social life, as had been the traditional goal of the educational and what we today call the socialization process, Fourier believed that instead the form of economic, political, and social life should itself be altered to fit the inherent passions of the individual, since these economic and social structures were man-made and not God-given.\n\nThrough conscious understanding of this process, which Fourier characterized as \"social science,\" new economic and social formations called \"Associations\" could be created, structured in such a way as to allow individuals to follow their passions and in this way advance towards the state of universal harmony.\n\nAlways one to list and to systematize, Fourier declared there existed twelve basic passions of humanity grouped around three branches of a \"passional tree\": \"luxurious passions\" of the senses; \"affective passions\" of love, friendship, and parenthood; and the oft-ignored \"distributive passions\" such as the need for political intrigue, the need for variety, and the pure enthusiasm of spiritual pursuits. The sum of all these passions Fourier called \"unityism,\" characterized as a universal feeling of benevolence and fraternity. Although fettered and mutated by Civilization, the free development of these passions would be allowed in the bright future world, Fourier believed.\n\nFourier believed himself the discoverer of the universal laws of societal evolution, theorizing the existence of 32 distinct periods beginning with Edenism and continuing through Savagery, Patriarchate, and Barbarism, respectively. Each of these stages was held to have distinctive material and ideological features, with the treatment afforded to women a particular marker of one stage from the next. Of far greater concern to Fourier and his disciples was the current 5th form of society, Modern Society, as well as three emerging forms which were believed to be just around the corner: 6 (Guarantism), 7 (Simple Association), and 8 (Compound Association). \n\n\"Modern Society,\" from the Fourierist perspective, was based upon capital and labor and the buying and selling of goods through a network of useless middlemen. With a sneer, Fourier referred to contemporary society as \"Civilization,\" deeming it the cause of fraud, waste, and human unhappiness. The \"isolated family\" he deemed inefficient, the wage system demoralizing and exploitative, and organized religion corrupt. An entire book was written detailing 36 types of bankruptcy and 76 sorts of \"cuckoldry\" to which humanity was subjected by its system of so-called Civilization, which Fourier viewed not only as imperfect but as wholly unacceptable.\n\nFourier believed that fortunately for humanity, the Civilization of modern society was a fleeting economic formation, soon to vanish from the Earth. The emerging socio-economic structure of \"Guarantism\" would be based upon the fundamental principle of universal insurance, Fourier believed, which was to include guarantee of the security of capital and guarantee on the right of labor to gainful employment. Petty traders and speculative profiteers would be eliminated from the economy in this new system of organized production and distribution, it was believed.\n\nThe next stage in the Fourierist schema, that of \"Simple Association,\" was to be based upon the cooperative enterprise of like bodies of farmers or artisans or industrial workers as distinct groups. Farmers would associate with other farmers, artisans with other artisans, industrial producers with other industrial producers, producing and selling their goods collectively. Simultaneously, these economic organizations were to for the first time include the association of family living and domestic labor, thereby eliminating the economic waste and social isolation of individual living. Wage labor would be eliminated, as the members of each of these associations would be co-proprietors, producing in tandem and sharing alike in the proceeds of their efforts.\n\nSubsequently, the Fourierists believed, there would emerge \"Compound Association\" or \"Harmonism.\" Under Compound Association all pursuits – industrial producers and artisans and farmers alike – would join in large associations which would shatter all economic lines. One Fourierian enthusiast described the system of Compound Association in the following terms:\n\nEvery interest is provided for, by an organization which embraces all details of production and distribution; and a system of natural and integral education is instituted – that is, a complete system of physical, mental, and emotional development, intimately connected with daily pursuits, provided for; that art and the science which underlies art may be taught together; that theory and practice may go hand in hand and that the individual may have the command of his whole personal power and enjoy the conditions of expressing it.\n\nEvery individual in these Compound Associations would be free to take part in the labor of a dozen or more different work groups, according to their interests and pleasure, over the course of any year, in the Fourierist vision. That which the Marxists called alienation of labor would thereby be eliminated and production boosted, since \"a man having himself on his own side works with more force, greater skill, and better effect than one who works against his inclinations,\" in the words of one Fourierian.\n\nFourier believed that economic output was the product of three factors: labor, capital, and talent. Each of these, he argued, were important to production and each needed to be compensated as such for the general prosperity of the organized association to be preserved. The communal associations which emerged based upon Fourier's ideas were generally formed as joint stock companies, and their investor-members were compensated separately on the basis both of amount of capital invested and amount of labor performed – with labor time given a range of values based both on the necessity and difficulty of the work and the degree of talent and skill with which it was performed.\n\nFourier's prescription was the establishment of communities called Phalanxes or Associations in the countryside. Housed inside gigantic serpentine edifices called \"phalanstries\" would be 1620 people, coming from various occupations and social classes. These residents were to be arranged in occupational \"series,\" according to Fourier's model – major divisions such as between agrarians and industrial producers and artisans – which would be further divided into smaller \"groups\" to cooperatively conduct specific aspects of the work. Mobility of the individual between various groups and even sections according to personal desires was to be allowed.\n\nFundamental to the Fourierian ideal was the notion of collective living and the rational performance of domestic duties. Individual households were seen as both wasteful in terms of duplicated effort performed and isolating of individuals – standing in the way of true cooperation and social harmony.\n\nRemaining in unpublished manuscript form until 1967 would be Fourier's imaginative predictions about degrees of sexual promiscuity and the institutions and moral codes which would emerge to govern love and interpersonal relationships in the harmonious world of Compound Association.\n\nThe Fourierian system of associations was based on the notion of voluntary participation and expansion through the force of example. Once founded, associations would demonstrate their practical merits and inspire emulation, with the first model communities replicating and spreading from localities to regions to nations and internationally. Never in his writings does Fourier appeal for the use of governmental legislation or coercive power of any sort, instead believing association to be a natural and wholly voluntary structure, part of a Divine Social Code.\n\nMoreover, the achievement on an international scale would eliminate war from the face of the earth. Instead, industrial armies would be formed to engage in gigantic reclamation projects, irrigating deserts and restoring vegetation and draining marshes and putting the land to cultivation. The elimination of disease would follow, as such banes as cholera, typhus, and yellow fever would vanish with the unhealthful places from whence they originated before society's restorative efforts. Through the planting of vast swaths of timber, cropland would be protected and the earth's climate itself would be slowly transformed, Fourier and his followers believed.\n\nFourier's theoretical system, described by one scholar as \"vast and eccentric,\" was only a part of the output of what another called \"a most riotous and unpruned imagination.\" Fourier believed that in the new world people would live for 144 years, that new species of friendly and pacifistic animals such as \"anti-lions\" would emerge, and that over time human beings would develop long and useful tails. Fourier also professed a belief in the ability of human souls to migrate between physical and \"aromal\" worlds. Such thinking was set aside during the last 15 years of Fourier's life, when he instead began to concentrate on testing in practice his economic and social ideas.\n\nFourier's disciples, including in the first rank the American Albert Brisbane and the French Victor Considerant, later pared down Fourier's writings into a comprehensible system for economic and social organization, with the Fourierist movement experiencing a brief boom in the United States during the middle years of the 1840s, when some 30 Fourierist associations were established.\n\nThe Fourierist doctrine of attractions, correspondences, and analogies was identified with esoteric doctrines like Martinism by Fourierist like Just Muiron from an early point on. It is no wonder, then, that contemporary observers like Louis Reybaud, the author of the first study of the socialists, perceived Fourierism and other early socialist schools in the context of mysticism, magic, kabbalah, or the occult sciences. Indeed, it has been shown that Fourierism exerted a decisive influence on new religious movements like Spiritualism or Occultism after 1848. Prior to this date, Fourierism had already coined the ideas of US-American spiritualist thinkers such as Andrew Jackson Davis. Eliphas Lévi, who is regarded as the founder of modern occultism, was a pronounced adherent of Fourierism in the 1840s. Until the early twentieth century, there was a strong Fourierist presence in French socialist-spiritualist circles.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38304253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38304253", "title": "Francesco Cancellieri", "text": "Francesco Cancellieri\n\nFrancesco Girolamo Cancellieri (Rome, October 10, 1751 – Rome, December 29, 1826) was an Italian writer, librarian, and erudite bibliophile.\n\nThomas Adolphus Trollope wrote a summary of his biography, which had been extracted were published by a Giuseppe Beraldi in a series called \"Memorie di religione, di morale, e di letteratura\". Francesco's paternal family was from Pistoia originally; his father had been a secretary to Cardinal Paolucci. Francesco was dispatched to be educated by the Jesuits at the Collegio Romano, though he never took vows as a priest. He was employed as secretary for various diplomats in Rome. However, in 1773, he lost important backers when the Suppression of the Jesuits was declared by Pope Clement XIV.\n\nIn 1775, Cancellieri was appointed librarian for Cardinal Antonelli, whose library was located in the Palazzo Pamphili in Piazza Navona; this post Cancellieri held till the latter's death in 1811. He lived on No. 63, Via del Mascherone, in a small house adjacent to the church of San Petronio dei Bolognesi. In addition to librarian position, Cancellieri was also Superintendent of the Propaganda printing press, and for a time, Prosigillatore for the Vatican, (Deputy Sealer of Briefs). But the income from these positions was paltry, and for years he was close to insolvency, specially after his protector, Antonelli, died. His publications rarely brought in income, and were often sponsored by those to whom they were dedicated.\n\nIn his position as secretary, Cancellieri proved prolific, writing nearly three hundred treatises or books. He was equally a prodigious epistolarian, he sent over 300 letters alone to the historian Tiraboschi. He was amiable and neat in person and language, but never terse; and his style in manners and writing were bountifully steeped with gushingly effusive, but also often grating, cordialities. The poet Leopardi complained that: \"Cancellieri is insufferable from the outrageous laudations with which he overwhelms everybody who goes to see him, ... (and) which renders his conversation utterly uninteresting, since one cannot believe a word of it.\" He also said: \"Cancellieri—an old fool, a river of chatter, the most tiresome and insupportable bore on earth. He speaks of absolutely trivial matters with the utmost interest, and of things of high import with the coldest indifference. He smothers you with compliments, and utters them with such a cold indifference that to hear him one would think that it must be the most ordinary thing in the world to be an extraordinary man.\"\n\nLeopardi in part shows impatience with the overcourteous past, dense with etiquette and flowery witticism, but also his attachment to minutiae unnerved the poet. Trollope states: \"The old 18th century bookworm, whose mind, filled to overflowing with odds and ends of archaeological learning ...could never conceive, that his stores could be otherwise than profoundly interesting to all mankind, must necessarily have seemed an unprofitable cumberer of the earth to the young poet, whose brain was busy with meditations on the eternal destinies of man. The gentle old-world courtesies in 'issimo,' ... nauseated the younger man, whose provincial breeding had not taught him to understand that there was no more real insincerity in his aged host's compliments than in the obeisances of a minuet. ... But it may be affirmed, with the most perfect assurance, that Cancellieri's intention and object at the interview was to please and gratify his visitor, whereas the morbid, melancholy, discontented mind of the poet was wholly occupied by his own sensations. \"\n\nHis books reflect his style; and, speak generally on the traditions of papal Rome, but also he took time to comment on Tarantism and claims surrounding the origins and actions of Christopher Columbus, about the Catholic liturgy, the sacred and ancient topography of Rome and its surroundings. He wrote about ancient Roman pignora Imperii as well as about the events of Holy week at given chapels. His titles meander as much as his focus inside the books. His essays begin with short islands of statements, but rapidly these are surrounded by an ocean of footnotes, an erudite diluvium of quotations and citations, resembling the style of the modern novel \"The Mezzanine\" by Nicholson Baker. The arabesque embroidering of his Rococo eloquence was soon to clash with the terse artillery of the post-Napoleonic speech. Cancillieri was like Boucher in grammar, but the world had turned direct and crisp like Ingres. Cancillieri was educated and focused on the courtly atmosphere and world of the Roman Curia, replete with genuflection, cult, and ritual; and all this was nearly dissipated by the uncompromising grapeshot of post-Revolutionary Napoleonic France.\n\nHis memoirs includes the events of 1804, Napoleon forced Pope Pius VII to witness his crowning as emperor, a ceremony meant to recall, although differing in details, the crowning of Charlemagne as Holy Roman Emperor in the year 800. Cancellieri and Cardinal Antonelli, accompanied the papal entourage of carriages which took 22 days in November to reach Fontainbleau. Known as the \"Bel'Abate\", it would not be surprising if he is one of the two courtiers behind the pope, one holding the infamous Napoleon tiara, in the painting on the \"Coronation of Napoleon\" by David. Cancellieri describes with great minuteness all the gorgeous ceremony. He accompanied the Pope on his visit to the Louvre, by then replete with looted works.\n\nThe manuscripts of Francesco Cancellieri, includes many volumes unpublished and conserved since 1840 in the Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana. Other manuscripts are in the Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale di Roma (Mss. vari, nn. 902-913).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "287386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287386", "title": "Giovanni Francesco Abela", "text": "Giovanni Francesco Abela\n\nGiovanni Francesco Abela (1582–1655) was a Maltese of noble birth who in the early 17th century wrote an important work on Malta, \"Della Descrittione di Malta isola nel Mare Siciliano: con le sue antichità, ed altre notizie\", \"description of Malta, island in the Sicilian sea, with its antiquities, and other information\".\n\nAbela was born in Valletta to Marco Abela and Benarda Vella whose great great grandfather was Barone di Pietra Lunga and whose ancestors ruled Malta on more than one occasion and were part of the royal family of Spain.\n\nMalta illustrated is still an important source of first-hand information on a number of subjects of Melitensia, such as folklore, placenames, the Maltese language, history of Malta and archaeology. His description of the Maltese Islands was translated into Latin by G.A. Seinero in 1725, Latin being the universal language of science and culture of that time. This translation was incorporated in Johann Georg Graevius Thesaurus antiquitatum et historiarum Italiae. \nHe became Auditor of Grand Master Antoine de Paule, Chaplain and finally Vice Chancellor of the Knights Hospitaller. He is also remembered as the promoter of the first Notarial Archives for Malta.\n\nGian Francesco Abela visited archaeological sites on the islands and made some valuable observations. He appears to have been the first to note that the ancient temple of Hercules was to be identified with the remains on the hill at Tas-Silg rather than those of Borg in-Nadur. At Tas-Silg he observed foundations and courses of stones ‘ben lavorate e messe insieme,’ and in support of his identification he recorded the discovery of ‘medaglie, pezzi di statue d’idoletti, e d’altre cose, minimi avanzi di quella vana gentilità e falsa religione, quivi ritrovate sotto il Magistero del Principe Wignacourt, mentre alcuni nell’istesso luogo cavando, scioccamente pensavano far acquisto di ricco tesoro.’\n\nIn the early 17th century Abela converted his house at Marsa to a historical museum, the first on Malta. Many of its artefacts are now stored in Malta's National Museum of Archaeology.\n\nHe is buried in the Chapel of Our Lady of Philermos (today the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament) in the Co-Cathedral of St. John in Valletta. The Junior College in Msida is named after Abela.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1914839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914839", "title": "Glasgow School", "text": "Glasgow School\n\nThe Glasgow School was a circle of influential artists and designers that began to coalesce in Glasgow, Scotland in the 1870s, and flourished from the 1890s to around 1910. Representative groups included The Four (also known as the Spook School), the Glasgow Girls and the Glasgow Boys. They were responsible for creating the distinctive Glasgow Style.\n\nGlasgow experienced an economic boom at the end of the 19th century, resulting in an increase in distinctive contributions to the Art Nouveau movement, particularly in the fields of architecture, interior design and painting.\n\nAmong the most prominent definers of the Glasgow School collective were The Four. They were the painter and glass artist Margaret MacDonald, acclaimed architect Charles Rennie Mackintosh (MacDonald's husband), MacDonald's sister Frances and Herbert MacNair. Together, The Four defined the Glasgow Style's fusion of influences including the Celtic Revival, the Arts and Crafts Movement, and Japonisme, which found favour throughout the modern art world of continental Europe. The Four, otherwise known as the Spook School, ultimately made a significant impact on the definition of Art Nouveau. The name, Spook School, or Spooky or Ghoul School, was originally a \"derisive epithet\" given to their work which \"distorted and conventionalized human... form.\"\n\nThe Glasgow Girls is the name now used for a group of female designers and artists including Margaret and Frances MacDonald, both of whom were members of The Four, Jessie M. King, Annie French, Helen Paxton Brown, Jessie Wylie Newbery, Ann Macbeth, Bessie MacNicol, Norah Neilson Gray, Stansmore Dean, Eleanor Allen Moore, De Courcy Lewthwaite Dewar, the silversmith Agnes Banks Harvey and Christian Jane Fergusson. May Wilson and Eliza Bell, among others, continued the tradition of ceramic artistry into the 1940s and 1950s by hand painting various items with floral patterns.\n\nWomen were able to flourish in Glasgow during a \"period of enlightenment\" that took place between 1885 and 1920, where women were actively pursuing art careers and the Glasgow School of Art had a significant period of \"international visibility\". This is sometimes attributed to the \"influential\" and \"progressive\" head of the art school, Fra Newbery, who established an environment in which women could flourish, both as students and as teachers. Women benefited from the new Glasgow Society of Lady Artists (founded 1882) which offered a place for women artists to meet and also had exhibition space. In addition, many art school students and staff were involved in women's suffrage. \"Students took turns between classes stitching up banners\" for the movement.\n\nThe name \"Glasgow Girls\" emerged much later. In the 1960s there was an attempt to give due attention to the work of the city’s women artists to balance the plentiful discussion of the Glasgow Boys. It is thought that the then head of the Scottish Arts Council William Buchanan was the first to use the name in the catalogue for a 1968 Glasgow Boys exhibition. This \"invention\" has been called an \"ironic reference\" to the equivalent men’s grouping. The term Glasgow Girls was emphasised by a major exhibition \"Glasgow Girls: Women in Art and Design 1880-1920\" organised by Jude Burkhauser in 1990.\n\nThrough the 1880s and 1890s, around the same time that the Spook School was gaining prominence, a collective which came to be known as the Glasgow Boys was interpreting and expanding the canon of Impressionist and post-impressionist painting. Their subject matter featured rural, prosaic scenes from in and around Glasgow. Their colorful depictions attempted to capture the many facets of the character of Scotland.\n\nThe Glasgow Boys consisted of several men, most of whom were trained in, or had strong ties to the city of Glasgow. These men were brought together by a passion for realism and naturalism and this showed through in the pieces they produced. Along with this passion for naturalism, they shared a marked distaste for the Edinburgh oriented Scottish art establishment, which they viewed as oppressive. Driven and motivated by these ideals they embraced change, created masterpieces, and became Scottish icons in the process.\n\nAmong the painters associated with the group were Joseph Crawhall (1861–1913), Thomas Millie Dow (1848-1919), James Guthrie (1859–1930), George Henry (1858–1943), E. A. Hornel (1864–1933), James Whitelaw Hamilton (1860-1932) and E. A. Walton (1860–1922). David Gauld (1865–1936), William Kennedy (1859–1918), John Lavery (1856–1941), Harrington Mann (1864-1937), Stuart Park (1862–1933), William Wells (1872–1923), David Young Cameron (1865–1945), Alexander Ignatius Roche (1861–1923), Arthur Melville (1855–1904), Thomas Corsan Morton (1859-1928), James Nairn (1859–1904), George Pirie (1863-1946) and John Quinton Pringle (1864–1925). James Paterson (1854–1932) and William York Macgregor (1855-1923) were leading figures in the group, which used to meet at Macgregor's studio.\n\nTheir main influences were that of Japanese print, French Realism including Jules Bastien-Lepage, and James Abbott McNeill Whistler, but all of their experiences around the world greatly impacted on and inspired their work, in particular in Spain, North Africa, and Japan. The group was constantly influenced by what they saw in the world around them and strove to display these images by utilizing the techniques of realism and naturalism; they had a passion to depict things as they actually are. This is one of the reasons that the group often chose to work outdoors. Working outdoors allowed them to produce paintings that were as true to nature as possible and it allowed them to paint realistic objects in their natural environment. They painted real people in real places. The production of naturalistic paintings was new to this time period, and thus their techniques were considered to be innovative. Similarly, the pieces often created a sense of movement, an accurate (or naturalistic) depiction of light and shade, and extremely realistic texture. This made them stand out in the art community.\n\nA large collection of work from the Glasgow Boys is held in the Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum, where one room is dedicated to the group. The museum houses more than 60 of the Boys' pieces that were created between 1880 and 1900, arguably the time period in which their best, and most innovative, pieces were produced. More of their works can be found on display at the Burrell Collection, Broughton House, Paisley Museum and Art Galleries and the Hunterian Museum and Art Gallery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21976200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21976200", "title": "Glyptotheque", "text": "Glyptotheque\n\nA glyptotheque is a collection of sculptures. It is part of the name of several museums and art galleries. \n\nThe designation glyptotheque was coined by the librarian of King Ludwig I of Bavaria, derived from the Ancient Greek verb \"glyphein\" (γλύφειν), meaning \"cut into stone.\" It was an allusion to the word pinacotheca (from πίναξ \"pinax\", \"panel\" or \"painting\"). \"Glypton\" (γλυπτόν) is the Greek word for a sculpture.\n\nMuseums that today bear this name or cognates of it include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35030018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35030018", "title": "History of bison conservation in Canada", "text": "History of bison conservation in Canada\n\nThroughout the 18th and 19th centuries, the plains bison and wood bison populations were hunted by nomadic indigenous hunters and white hunters alike. By the 1850s, the bison was nearly extinct, spurring a movement to save the few herds that remained. Federal government wildlife policy evolved from preservation of wilderness to utilitarian, scientific conservation and management of bison populations. The goals of these policies often contradicted themselves, aiming to simultaneously preserve wildlife, promote recreation, commercialize the bison, and assert state control over Aboriginal Canadians. Bison conservation efforts were shaped by the federal government's colonialist and modernist approach to Canada's north, the management of national parks and reserves, and the influence of scientific knowledge.\n\nGovernment preservation efforts began with the passing of the Unorganized Territories Game Preservation Act of 1894, which restricted legal hunting to certain times of the year. Bison herds were tracked down and moved to reserves where hunters were banned from operating.\n\nIn 1909, Buffalo National Park in Alberta was established with a herd of 300 plains bison. By 1916 more than 2,000 bison lived in the park, which was now overpopulated. As a result, many were moved to Wood Buffalo National Park in north-eastern Alberta (est. 1922). There, the plains bison and wood bison mingled and created a hybridized species of bison. The plains bison also brought new diseases which infected the existing wood bison population.\n\nWhen bison populations collapsed in the mid-19th century, Aboriginal groups that relied on the bison had to find new ways to support themselves. In the 20th century, the Canadian government's conservationist policies that restricted hunting and requisitioned land to turn into national parks made it even more difficult for Aboriginals to remain self-sufficient. Ultimately, it was not as difficult for Aboriginal groups to maintain self-sufficiency compared to the alternative of continuing their hunting practices, as Canadian bison would go extinct.\n\nEfforts to conserve the bison are ongoing. Parks Canada has plans to reintroduce the plains bison to Banff National Park in order to restore the species and to promote tourism. The commercial bison industry still breeds bison for food in direct conflict with wild bison conservation efforts. Approximately 400,000 bison live in North America today; only 20,000 of those are considered wild. Many believe that conservation efforts must go beyond simply increasing population size and focus on the restoration of the bison to its wild, undomesticated state.\n\nIn the early 1800s, there were an estimated 30 million bison on the Great Plains. However, the lucrative robe trade accelerated overhunting of the plains bison by indigenous groups and white settlers alike. The bison on the western plains were last to be affected by white American expansionism, but by the 1850s even those herds were diminished. Westward migration of domesticated animals and people destroyed grazing grounds, and drought and new diseases exacerbated the decline. The plight of the bison was largely seen as the superiority of man over nature until the early 19th century. Historian Andrew Isenberg argues that the rise of capitalist ideology drove indigenous and white hunters alike to compete for every last animal, and that a multitude of factors – disease, drought, westward expansion, commercialization and industrialization of hunting, colonialism, and the introduction of domestic animals from Europe – caused the near-extinction of the bison. Others point out that the bison depletion was a problem of the tragedy of the commons, the opposite of capitalism: The bison were communal property, not private property, therefore they were abused and squandered for short-term gain that ultimately caused long-term problems as no one person or group was responsible for maintaining a healthy population.\n\nToday, the majority of the world's wood bison herds are located in Northern Canada: a small herd of bison discovered in the northern part of Wood Buffalo National Park. In 1965, 23 of these bison were relocated to the south side of Elk Island National Park and 300 remain there today as the most genetically pure wood bison remaining. While there are many factors that have contributed to the decline of the wood bison, the most prominent are the over-hunting that took place in the 1800s, inadequate conservation methods that led to hybridization with the plains bison and other species, and the spread of communicable diseases. Wood bison were largely over-hunted in the 1800s, and only a few hundred remained in Northern Alberta by the early 20th century. By 1957, wood bison were thought to have been finally extinct in Canada due to hybridization with the plains bison, which took place in Wood Buffalo National Park between 1925 and 1928. As wood bison species became threatened with the hybridization, relocation and breeding conservation programs specific to wood bison were established in 1963, and the population increased steadily. From the 1970s to the 90s, however, the population began to decline again with the spread of bovine tuberculosis which resulted from the transfer of infected plains bison to Wood Buffalo National Park. In the case of Wood Buffalo National Park, the number of wood bison declined from 10,000 bison in the late 1960s to 2,200 bison by the late 1990s due to this process. The story of the wood bison in North America is largely one of repeated human mistakes that resulted in critical endagerment of an iconic species.\n\nAboriginal worldviews emphasize a connection between all life forms. Aboriginals had a reciprocal, sustainable relationship with the bison. Traditional governing structures ensured the continuity of resource use over time, allowing Aboriginals to adapt to frequent, unpredictable changes in the environment. In Canada, northern Aboriginals had a subsistence culture based on local hunting and trapping economies. The traditional hunting cultures of the Cree, Dene, and Inuit peoples came into direct conflict with the Canadian federal government's wildlife conservation programs, as life on the land was impossible without access to animals.\n\nAboriginals of the Great Plains faced a choice in the 1700s: they could remain in their villages, cultivating food and trying to defend themselves against diseases brought over from Europe, or they could adapt to the white colonial economy and become nomadic bison hunters, selling bison robes, tongues and other parts in exchange for commodities. Many chose the latter option and, for decades, profited from the bison trade. By the 1850s, however, the near-extinction of the bison had removed their livelihood, and many of these groups starved to death.\n\nAfter the introduction of horses, newly nomadic First Nations groups could now lance or shoot bison, speeding up the rate of the bison hunt. The bison hunt became highly commercialized and capitalistic, valuing quick profits over long-term sustainability. Isenberg argues that cultural and ecological interactions between Native Americans and Euroamericans in the Great Plains were responsible for the near-extinction of the bison. Cultural and ecological interactions created new forms of bison hunters: mounted Indian nomads and Euroamerican industrial hideman. These hunters, combined with environmental pressures, nearly extinguished the bison. Isenberg also explains that the introduction of horses facilitated bison hunting and competed with bison for scarce water and forage. Industrialization also played a role, with the expansion of railroads, commercial hunting, and the fur trade market.\n\nThe first bison preservation efforts in Canada included the Unorganized Territories Game Preservation Act of 1894, through which the government legislated a closed season on the bison. This act was passed after naturalists conducted rough and largely inaccurate visual surveys of the bison population, concluding that the animal was in decline. From this assumption naturalists were able to create a more active federal wildlife administration in the Northwest Territories. The Wood Buffalo National Park was created in 1922 in response to Northern Canada's wildlife crisis.\n\nWildlife preservation was not a priority for the federal government during the 19th century due to belief in the superabundance of natural resources, the presence of a wilderness frontier, and a political climate that emphasized development and exploitation. The bison was the iconic species of the North American conservation movement, an animal that symbolized frontier wilderness and the disappearing wild. This idea motivated the conservation efforts in Canada, in addition to the concerns for recreation and resource preservation, as well as the influence of American wildlife conservation on Canadian civil servants.\n\nWildlife conservation in Canada was sparked by the protection of animals for tourism and recreation. Howard Douglas, an appointed superintendent of Rocky Mountains Park in 1897 first began to expand and preserve wildlife to attract more visitors to the park. However, between 1900 and 1920 Canada saw a dramatic change in national attitudes from focus in tourism to the creation of the National Parks Branch, world's first governmental organization dedicated to parks, and the development of other governmental organizations like the Commission of Conservation. Canadian Commission of Conservation that established in 1909 was intended to be an independent body dealing with questions of natural resource conservation in Canada. In the early years of the Commission, wildlife investigations were mostly focused on resource-commodity species such as fish and fur-bearing animals and later developed to include greater variety of species.\n\nAlthough the efforts to preserve wildlife for tourism and as resources sparked the conservation movement, the true ideological development began with the institutionalization of environmental protection, which was brought forth through a number of dedicated government bureaucrats such as Robert Campbell, a Canadian Forestry Branch Director, Gordon Hewitt, a Dominion entomologist, and James Harkin, the first Parks Commissioner expressing strong conservationist philosophies. These bureaucrats actively sought administrative support from the government and intensively engaged in their own research to pass numerous environmental protection policies. Due to the efforts of Canadian government officials, the wildlife conservation movement became institutionalized and solidified. While personal experiences and encounters with environmental threats account for the efforts of these civil servants, the influence of American experience was a strong factor: the loss of the frontier, the impact of civilization with its resulting decline in wildlife numbers, and the establishment and success of American national parks. James Harkin was especially influenced by the American preservationist John Muir and his wilderness preservation theories, while both Harkin and Douglas were well aware of the developments in American wildlife protection movements.\n\nCanadian society and government experienced a greater awareness and sense of responsibility that led to the development of a wilderness consciousness and preservation ethic. Wildlife began to be protected as an intrinsically valuable international resource rather than a simple tourist attraction or a commodity. Canada's history of wildlife conservation movement demonstrates how a small faction of dedicated civil servants transformed their own goals of preserving endangered species into active government policy.\n\nPreservation was the main focus of management up to World War II, which was accomplished by \"feeding the bison, shooting carnivores that preyed on them, and patrolling for poachers.\" As early as the 1870s, western ranchers James McKay and William Alloway were capturing bison calves and raising them alongside their herds of cattle, effectively domesticating the bison. Some of these bison were sold in 1880 to Colonel Samuel Bedson, who let them roam the grounds of the Stony Mountain penitentiary in Manitoba. In 1907, the federal government purchased Michel Pablo's herd of plains bison from Montana and transferred it to Buffalo National Park in Alberta as a response to the declining number of bison in Canada. The species was nearly extinct at this point and the park served as an ideal environment in which their numbers could and did grow.\n\nIn the post-war period, wildlife scientists began to recognize that the bison in the north could be exploited for national benefit. Wildlife and the wilderness were reconceptualized as factors that could be manipulated to increase economic development in the north. In 1947, the Dominion Wildlife Service (Later known as Canadian Wildlife Service or CWS) was created to centralize wildlife research infrastructure within the federal government. The manipulation of the bison was justified by Canadian Wildlife Service biologist William Fuller in a study that demonstrated that the tuberculosis found among the hybridized bison in the north helped maintain stable numbers in the park. Slaughter became more systematic and frequent among the bison through the management plan in 1954.\n\nThrough the Unorganized Territories Game Preservation Act of 1894, the federal government enforced a closed season on the bison. The plains bison were near extinction in Canada and with these efforts the government hoped to preserve them from the Aboriginal hunters. However, preservation efforts were not only for recreational purposes. After the Second World War, the bison were used for commercial purposes as well. As the numbers of bison increased, the federal government issued licenses to regulate the number of bison and bring in revenue. Aboriginal people were excluded from national parks, not for the sake of preserving wilderness, but in the \"interests of game conservation, sport hunting, tourism, and Indian assimilation.\" This represented a shift in federal wildlife policy goals from preservation of wilderness to the commercialization and commodification of the national parks. Aboriginals were excluded from Banff National Park in Alberta to serve the goals of conservationists and sportsmen. Furthermore, Aboriginal hunting practices conflicted with the goals of the Department of Indian Affairs to civilize and assimilate Aboriginal people. Beginning in the 1880s, Aboriginals were encouraged to abandon hunting in favour of an agricultural lifestyle. Thus, the goal of the federal government was not to restore and protect wilderness, but to create an environment with an abundance of wildlife attractions for sports hunting and tourism, and to assimilate Aboriginal people into Euro-Canadian society.\n\nThe preservation of the wood bison in northern Canada was implied by the strict federal control of traditional Aboriginal hunting practices through the creation of a wildlife sanctuary. The federal government proposed large scale ranching and breeding plans for bison herds. Preservationist approaches to the bison in the north implied the assertion of federal power over the bison which had been under the control of Aboriginal hunters for generations. There was no role for the human use of nature.\n\nIn 1952 and 1954, there was a shortage of mature adult male bison which resulted in the slaughtering of more female and young bison and caused conflict within the management. CWS biologist Nick Novakowsi argued that the bison was declining due to slaughtering along with the effects of flooding. This created conflict between the management at the Wood Buffalo Park and the federal government. The park management did not see this as reducing the bison herd for stabilization, but instead described it as \"mass murder.\"\n\nThe federal government's goal of commercializing the bison throughout Canada undermined the need to provide inexpensive bison meat to the local population in northern Canada. With new agreements with meatpackers in the south, combined with their prior commitment to the Hudson's Bay Company and Indian Affairs, over nine hundred bison were slaughtered. Through the agreement, the packing companies received top quality bison meat for low prices, while northern Canada got tough meat that was sold at higher prices. CWS biologists feared that there was no scientific legitimacy to the slaughtering of the nine hundred bison, many which did not have tuberculosis. In the winter of 1957- 1958, the testing and slaughtering program of the bison was established. The conservation and commodification of bison are fundamentally contradictory goals.\n\nIn the late 1980s, there was a debate on the outbreak of tuberculosis and brucellosis at Wood Buffalo Park discussing whether the diseased bison should be replaced. A committee was established in 1986 to discuss the possibilities of action and suggested: \"maintenance of the status quo, fencing of the park boundary, a combination of fences and buffer zones near the park boundary and the complete eradication of the hybridized park bison with replacement by a disease-free herd of wood bison.\" This caused a debate between Environment Canada, who was in favour of the eradication, and Wood Buffalo National Park staff, who opposed it. The park staff argued that the risk of the diseased bison infecting cattle was overstated and that it was to justify using the bison for commercial purposes. Due to the opposition the diseased bison were not slaughtered.\n\nAboriginals opposed the creation of the Wood Buffalo National Park in 1922 and continued to protest their opposition even after it was established. With the creation of the park, non-treaty Aboriginals were removed and the treaty Aboriginals were allowed to continue to hunt under strict regulation by the park staff. Aboriginal hunting cultures were not taken into consideration when these laws were enforced, instead the preservation of the bison was a bigger concern to the federal government. After 1945, government wildlife workers became interested in developing the North and realized the economic benefits that the bison could provide them. CWS biologist William Fuller, in his study of the bison infected with tuberculosis, provided the federal government with the justification it needed to slaughter the bison for commercial and economic purposes.\n\nAccording to historian John Sandlos, several historical forces converged in shaping wildlife conservation in northern Canada: \"the disdain among conservationists for traditional hunting cultures, the authoritarian approach of the state to wildlife conservation, the rise of scientific knowledge,\" and a broader \"modernization agenda in the region\". Federal wildlife officials combined the philosophies of wildlife preservation and utilitarian conservation, \"arguing for the salvation of the bison based on the contradictory images of a wilderness [frontier] and a semipastoral landscape\".\n\nBuffalo National Park, established in 1909 in Wainwright, Alberta, received its first shipment of 325 bison on June 16, 1909 after being transferred from Elk Island National Park. The national park was created to preserve the plains bison that were on the brink of extinction in the mid-1880s mostly due to systematic slaughter, increased settlement and advances in hunting practices. After the arrival of numerous shipments, the bison population at Buffalo National Park increased rapidly and exceeded 2,000 by 1916, resulting in the largest bison herd in the world. The rapid growth of the bison population appears to have been one indicator of the saving effort's success despite having little information of, or precedent for, efficient ways to save and increase wild animal populations other than in the mountain parks. The transfer of plains bison from the overpopulated range in Buffalo National Park to the understocked range in Wood Buffalo National Park resulted in hybridization between the species and the infection of the northern herds with tuberculosis and brucellosis. Not until the 1930s would park and wildlife managers begin to study the relationships within species and with their environment, and ideas of carrying capacity, so administrators were treading in unfamiliar territory when the reserve was established. The placement of the park area on poor agricultural land coupled with an overpopulation problem led to the degradation of the range and the spread of disease. Experiments such as crossbreeding bison and domestic cattle and commercializing the herd were unsuccessful. The Canadian Parks Branch lacked sufficient funding to run the park or to remedy the crises the bison faced. After deciding to close the park in 1939, the Department of National Defence (Canada) repurposed the area for military training and the bison disappeared once again. During its thirty-one years of activity, Buffalo National Park played an important role in saving the plains bison from extinction.\n\nWood Buffalo National Park, established in 1922 in northeastern Alberta and the southern portion of The Northwest Territories, is North America's largest national park, at 44,800 km2. It served to protect herds of bison that had dropped in numbers from an estimated 40 million in 1830 to less than 1000 by 1900. Despite harboring bovine diseases such as tuberculosis and brucellosis, the introduced and resident population increased to somewhere between 10,000 and 12,000 by 1934. The bison population reached 12,500 to 15,000 by the late 1940s and early 1950s but by 1998, Parks Canada documented that the population had decreased to approximately 2,300. This decline was due to various factors such as slaughters, cessation of wolf poisoning, round-ups for disease control, floods, diseases, predation, and habitat changes. These significant declines, as well as the elimination of existing pure strain bison caused major political debate on the future of bison in the park and the presence of contagious bovine diseases. In August 1990, a review panel supported by the federal government recommended the introduction of disease-free wood bison from Elk Island National Park and potentially elsewhere, but due to a quick and negative public response, no action was taken. From 1996 to 2001, a 5-year Bison Research and Containment Program (BRCP) was conducted to assess the prevalence and impact of brucellosis and tuberculosis on the bison population of Wood Buffalo National Park. To understand the changing dynamics of this particular ecosystem, multiple research studies continue to this day.\n\nThe traditional hunting cultures of the Cree, Dene, and Inuit peoples came into direct conflict with the Canadian federal government's wildlife conservation programs. Conflicts arose over the issues of access and control over bison for the purposes of subsistence and commodity production. These conflicts occurred between Aboriginal hunters, government officials, and park administrators due to each group's divergent approaches to wildlife resource management. The utilitarian, scientific conservation approach employed by federal bison management programs was incompatible with the traditional hunting cultures of northern Aboriginals. However, Cree, Dene, and Inuit communities that hunted and trapped in Wood Buffalo Park formally resisted government policy by writing letters, signing petitions, and boycotting treaty payments Less formally, many Aboriginal hunters simply refused to obey the wildlife laws, exercising their traditional right to hunt bison.\n\nThe 1894 Unorganized Territories Game Preservation Act introduced regulations that severely limited the ability of the Cree, Dene, and Inuit peoples to access wildlife on their traditional territories. By the 1920s, Aboriginals were excluded from hunting and trapping grounds contained in Wood Buffalo National Park. The establishment of a game warden service in the park allowed for direct surveillance and supervisory control over Aboriginal hunters. As a result, the most basic elements of the Aboriginal subsistence cycle, including seasonal movements, fur trapping, and the gathering of food, were redefined as criminal activities through federal game regulations. According to historian John Sandlos, attitudes towards Cree, Dene, and Inuit hunters were socially constructed and flawed due to observer bias, racial stereotyping, and inaccurate reporting by park officials. Furthermore, Sandlos emphasizes that incidents of wildlife overkill does not undermine the right or ability of Aboriginal hunters to manage local bison populations in partnership with government experts.\n\nAccording to Sandlos, the introduction of national parks and game regulations was central to the assertion of state authority over the traditional hunting cultures of the Cree, Dene, and Inuit peoples. Sandlos argues that the early wildlife conservation movement was shaped by the \"civilizing ideology\" of the Canadian government's colonial agenda. The presence of Aboriginal hunters in the Northwest Territories was considered detrimental to the government's utilitarian and scientific approach to wildlife management, which was designed to produce a surplus of bison which could then be exploited as commodities. Federal wildlife officials portrayed Aboriginal hunters as having a destructive influence on bison populations, which legitimized the assertion of state control over the subsistence cultures of the Cree, Dene, and Inuit. The cultural stereotype that viewed Aboriginal hunting practices as reckless, immoral, and wasteful became firmly entrenched within bison conservation programs. Federal officials viewed Aboriginal hunters as a threat to their wildlife management and development schemes for the north, and therefore, subjected them to regulation and control.\n\nThe proposed bison ranching schemes in Wood Buffalo National Park required a complete transformation of the economic and social lives of Dene and Inuit hunters. The intensive management of bison for the purposes of commodity production entailed the introduction of capitalism, marginalization of the local hunting and trapping economy, and conversion of Aboriginal hunters into wage labourers. Federal wildlife officials hoped that the introduction of a northern ranching economy would persuade Aboriginals to give up hunting and trapping in favour of more stable, productive lives as labourers or ranchers. By the 1950s, state policies controlled nearly every aspect of the social, cultural, and material lives of northern Aboriginals. While many Aboriginals were encouraged to assimilate into the modern industrial economy, others became dependent wards of the state through relocation onto reservations or re-education in residential schools. The lack of control over traditional territories and subsistence food resources became a political issue, impacting Aboriginal self-determination, cultural continuity, and health status.\n\nMany Aboriginal groups had become nomadic bison hunters in response to Euroamerican westward expansion and economic development, which had made the robe trade highly lucrative. The collapse of the bison population on the Great Plains eliminated the primary source of wealth of these groups in addition to destroying their lands and livelihoods. While white and indigenous hunters both contributed to the culling of the bison population, white hunters tended to be far more destructive in their hunting techniques. While Aboriginal hunting groups participated in the bison hunt in order to support themselves, Euroamericans were actively trying to clear the plains of bison populations to make way for settlers and domesticated animals.\n\nEarly conservation efforts to preserve the iconic bison were ultimately undermined by the federal government's goal of domesticating northern bison populations for commercial purposes. The utilitarian, scientific approach to bison management prevented the state from comprehending the complexity of local ecosystems and human cultures. The narrow focus on production resulted in poor federal wildlife management decisions, such as the transfer of thousands of plains bison from the overpopulated range in Buffalo National Park to the supposedly understocked range in Wood Buffalo National. The transfer had disastrous ecological consequences, including hybridization between the plains and wood bison species and the infection of the northern herds with tuberculosis and brucellosis.\n\nContemporary bison conservation is informed by the legacy of historical efforts by the Canadian federal government. Parks Canada plans to reintroduce a breeding population of the extirpated plains bison to Banff National Park. Goals include conservation of the plains bison, a native keystone species, as well as ecological restoration, inspiring discovery, and providing an \"authentic national park experience.\" According to Parks Canada, the bison remains \"emblematic of the wild Canadian west.\" The American Prairie Foundation is planning to create the American Prairie Reserve in Montana to restore the native prairie ecosystem and bison populations. Plains bison will be transferred to the reserve from the Elk Island National Park in Alberta.\n\nDespite the development of co-management regimes and increased Aboriginal participation in the wildlife policy process, the colonial legacy of the state management era still lingers. These current bison conservation initiatives do not discuss Aboriginal use of subsistence resources in national parks and reserves. It is unclear whether Aboriginal participation and Traditional Ecological Knowledge will be incorporated into reintroduction plans. Although the Cree and Dene are now recognized as official participants in the management of wildlife and protected areas, Sandlos argues that this \"tentative shift in political power represents an incomplete attempt to decolonize wildlife management practices in the North.\" The weak powers given to Aboriginal people on wildlife advisory boards allow the state to maintain political authority over wildlife resources, while giving the appearance of a participatory consensus-building approach with Aboriginal hunters. Sandlos suggests that the advisory nature of co-management boards is based on the implicit colonial assumption that local Aboriginal resource management systems are deficient, and that the role of the state is essential to the formation of wildlife policy in Canada's north.\n\nCurrent bison conservation efforts face numerous social and ecological challenges, due to the history of early preservation methods that conducted species conservation at the expense of ecological function. Today, conservation groups are increasingly focusing on preservation of bison a native species and conducting research to prove their status as endangered animals. The IUCN Bison Specialist Group is currently completing a new status assessment and conducting a review to determine if the species should be red-listed as threatened or endangered. Non-profit groups such as Nature Conservancy Canada's Old-Man-on-His-Back Preserve in Alberta are creating conservation herds in the Elk Islands, while private sector groups such as Turner Enterprises are separating cattle-gene-free herds. Additionally, Aboriginal efforts are underway to create tribal wildlife reserves with wild bison populations.\nIn direct conflict with wild bison conservation efforts is the commercial bison industry, which continues to breed bison for food. Due to the industry's view of bison as a commodity, the role of the bison as an important species for the ecology of grassland ecosystems remains largely theoretical. By the 1960s, wildlife preservation efforts had transformed into a bison ranching industry, and many parks in Canada were almost indistinguishable from the agricultural operations that surrounded them. The bison, the same animal that symbolized the disappearing wild, was transformed into \"meat\" by the very institutions that had been instrumental to its rescue and preservation. Many of the bison herds have become hybridized with cattle species, due to commercial efforts to create \"cattalo\" during the period when bison numbers were very low in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Today, of the total 400,000 plains bison in North America, only about 20,000 are considered \"wildlife.\" As such statistics show, contemporary bison conservation is more complicated than simple efforts to increase the species' population; modern conservation measures need to focus on returning the bison to its wild state through the restoration of native prairie ecosystems. The Canadian Bison Association (CBA), an organization composed of over 1,500 producers and 250,000 bison, are working in cooperation with numerous conservation groups to develop strategies to help return bison to its natural, wild state.\n\n"}
{"id": "2057583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2057583", "title": "Husein Gradaščević", "text": "Husein Gradaščević\n\nHusein Gradaščević (31 August 1802–17 August 1834) was an Ottoman Bosnian and later independent Bosniak military commander who later led a rebellion against the Ottoman government, seeking autonomy for Bosnia. Born into a Bosnian Muslim noble family, Gradaščević became the captain of Gradačac in the early 1820s, succeeding his relatives (among whom were his father) at the position. He grew up surrounded by a political climate of turmoil in the western reaches of the Ottoman Empire. With the Russo-Turkish war (1828–29), Gradaščević's importance rose; the Bosnian governor gave him the task of mobilizing an army between the Drina and Vrbas. By 1830, Gradaščević became the spokesperson of all Ottoman captains in Bosnia, and coordinated the defense in light of a possible Serbian invasion. Sparked by Ottoman Sultan Mahmud II's reforms that abolished the Janissaries and weakened the privileges of the nobility, and the autonomy and territory granted to the Principality of Serbia, much of the Bosnian nobility united and revolted. Gradaščević was chosen as the leader, and claimed the title of Vizier. This uprising, with goals of autonomy, lasted three years and included termination of Ottoman loyals mainly in Herzegovina. Among notable accomplishments, Gradaščević led forces victorious against the Ottoman field marshal in Kosovo. The uprising failed, while all captaincies were abolished by 1835. Temporarily exiled in Austria, he negotiated his return with the Sultan and was allowed to enter all of the Ottoman Empire except Bosnia. He died under controversial circumstances in 1834 and was buried in the Ejub cemetery in Constantinople. \n\nGradaščević received the honorific \"the Dragon of Bosnia\" (), and is considered a Bosniak folk hero and one of the most revered figures in the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nThe first known captain of the Gradaščević captaincy in Gradačac is Mehmed-\"kapetan\", whose rule lasted until 1169 A.H. (1755–1756). The name of his successor is unknown, although this next captain was eventually succeeded by Mehmed-\"kapetan\" in 1765. (It was a common tradition among Bosniaks for children to be named after their paternal grandfathers). Mehmed-\"kapetan\" was in turn succeeded by Osman Gradaščević, who was known to be one of the most powerful Bosnian captains of the period. Osman-\"kapetan\" had six male heirs. In order of birth, they were Hamza, Murat, Osman, Muharem, Husein, and H. Bećir. As Hamza died in 1212 A.H. (1797–1798) it was Murat-\"beg\" Gradaščević who succeeded him to the captaincy.\n\nHusein was born in the town of Gradačac (in northern Bosnia), to Osman and his wife Melek-\"hanuma\" in 1802, at the Gradaščević family house. Outside of family tradition and folklore invented much later, little is known of his childhood. It is said that he spent much time around the family fort while it was undergoing renovations. He grew up during turbulent times and taking into account his father's military experience and brother Osman's services during the 1813 war against Serbia, young Husein surely heard many first hand accounts that shaped his personality.\n\nOsman senior died in 1812 when Husein was merely ten years old. Certain scholars have argued that his mother was also dead by then, although some family traditions claim otherwise. By all accounts, his mother had a strong influence on Husein's upbringing. Upon his father's death, Husein deferred to his eldest brother Murat because of his age and status as successor to the Gradačac captaincy, in fact Husein Gradaščević rose to the head of the Gradačac military captaincy only after his brother Murat was poisoned in the 1821 by rival aristocrats attempting to gain the favor of the desperate Grand Vizier.\n\nAs his status implied, Husein was well educated, learning to read and write at an early age. At sixteen he was taught Arabic calligraphy by Murat's personal scribe \"Mullah\" Mustevica, who praised his brightness and called him a \"gifted child\". In addition to this, Husein was taught by two Bektashi \"dervishes\". It is not known for certain whether Husein belonged to a dervish order but, based on his great piety and the modest lifestyle that he would demonstrate in the future, it is often assumed that he did.\n\nHusein married Hanifa, sister of Mahmud-\"kapetan\" of Derventa, at an early age. Although the exact date is unknown, his son Muhamed-\"beg\" Gradaščević was probably born no later than 1822 when Husein himself was twenty years old. The pair would also have a daughter, Šefika, born in 1833. Neither Muhamed nor Šefika were known to have had children themselves.\n\nWhen Husein took over the Gradačac captaincy, he focused most of his attention on administration of internal affairs. It is notable that all of Husein's construction projects were related to the city of Gradačac and its immediate area. During his rule, Gradačac further expanded its status as one of the most prosperous captaincies in Bosnia.\n\nThe first and most notable construction was that of the Gradačac Castle. The fort had existed for decades and was subject to extensive renovations since the time of Mehmed-kapetan in 1765. Husein's father Osman and brother Murat had done some work as well, in 1808 and 1818–19 respectively. However, the exact nature of Husein's contribution is unknown. The castle's tower has long been associated with Husein but architectural evidence points to the tower existing alongside the rest of the complex from earlier times. It seems likely that Husein was merely responsible for a significant renovation of the tower that lingered in the people's memory.\n\nHusein did have a new castle built, in a large project which included the construction of an artificial island surrounded by a moat up to 100 meters wide and of a great depth. The castle was named \"Čardak\" and the surrounding village quickly derived its name from it. The walls were of an oval shape, the entire structure being seventeen meters long and eight meters wide. The complex and area also included a mosque, wells, a fishery, and hunting grounds.\n\nWithin the Gradačac city walls Husein's most significant contribution to the city was the clock tower () which was built in 1824. The object's base is 5.5 by 5.5 meters, while the height is 21.50 meters. It was the last object of this type to be built in Bosnia.\n\nSome 40 to 50 meters outside the city walls lies Husein's greatest architectural contribution to Gradačac: the Husejnija mosque. Built in 1826, it features an octagonal dome roof and a particularly high minaret of 25 m. Three smaller octagonal domes are found above the verandah. Islamic decorations and artistry are seen on the door and surrounding wall as well as the interior. The entire complex is surrounded by a small stone wall and gate.\n\nHusein's rule in Gradačac was also notable because of his tolerance towards the Christian populace under his jurisdiction; both Catholic and Orthodox. Though social norms of the time dictated that the Ottoman sultan's official approval was necessary for the construction of any non-Islamic religious buildings, Husein approved the construction of several such buildings without it. A Catholic school was built in the village of Tolisa in 1823, followed by a large church that could hold 1,500 people. Another two Catholic churches were built in the villages of Dubrave and Garevac, while an Orthodox church was built in the hamlet of Obudovac. During Husein's captaincy, the Christians in Gradačac were known to be the most satisfied in Bosnia.\n\nHusein entered the higher political scene in Bosnia in 1827, largely due to the impending Russo-Turkish War (1828–1829) and his role in preparing the defense of the boundaries of Bosnia. Upon receiving orders from the Bosnian vizier Abdurahim Pasha, Husein mobilized the Gradačac populace and strengthened his defenses. During talks held in Sarajevo between the vizier and the Bosnian captains, it is said that Husein stayed the longest to discuss strategy. He was appointed commander of an army that he was to mobilize from the lands between the Drina to the Vrbas. By all accounts, he did a satisfactory job. However, in mid-June 1828, Husein had to rush to Sarajevo with a small accompanying force to get the vizier to safety following a revolt among the troops.\n\nBy 1830, Husein had risen to new political heights as he was able to speak on behalf of all (or at least most of) the captains of Bosnia. At that time, he was coordinating the defense of Bosnia against a possible invasion by Serbia, as well as taking it upon himself to address Austrian authorities and warn them against any incursion across the Sava. The authority he wielded in the later years of his captaincy in Gradačac explains the great role he was to have in the years to follow.\n\nIn the late 1820s, Sultan Mahmud II reintroduced a set of reforms that called for further expansion of the centrally controlled army (\"nizam\"), new taxes and more Ottoman bureaucracy. These reforms weakened the special status and privileges of the Bosnian Muslim nobility. Many Bosnian leaders had also been disappointed by Ottoman negligence to the plight of the Muslim refugees arriving from the Principality of Serbia. Contrary to popular belief, however, Husein Gradaščević was not greatly opposed to these reforms.\n\nIn 1826, during the Auspicious Incident, Sultan Mahmud II abolished the Janissaries, through use of military force, executions and exile. Mahmud II then banned the revered Bektashi Order and decreed his Turkish commanders to launch campaigns against prominent Balkan Muslim leaders causing great instability in Rumelia. Gradaščević's immediate reaction to the abolition of the Janissaries was not unlike that of the rest of the Bosnian aristocracy; Gradaščević threatened with military force to subdue anybody opposed to the Sarajevo Janissaries. When the Janissaries killed \"naqib al-ashraf\" Imam Nurudin-effendi Šerifović, however, his tone shifted and he rapidly distanced himself from their cause. Gradaščević did realize that economic hardship was the main reason of Janissary dissent. After this, Gradaščević generally maintained good relations with imperial authorities in Bosnia. When Abdurahim Pasha became vizier in 1827, Gradaščević was said to have become one of his more trusted advisors. This culminated in Gradaščević's large role in the Bosnian mobilization for the Russo-Ottoman war. Following a riot in the Sarajevo camp during these preparations, Gradaščević even provided shelter for the ousted Abdurahim Pasha in Gradačac before assisting him in his escape from the country. Gradaščević was also relatively loyal to Abdurahim's successor, Namık Pasha, reinforcing Ottoman garrisons in Šabac upon his orders.\n\nThe turning point for Gradaščević came with the end of the Russo-Ottoman War and the Treaty of Adrianople on 14 September 1829. According to the provisions of the treaty, the Ottoman Empire had to grant autonomy to Serbia, and also cede it six districts. This outraged the Bosnian nobility, launching numerous protests.\n\nBetween 20 and 31 December 1830, Gradaščević hosted a gathering of Bosniak aristocrats in Gradačac. A month later, from 20 January to 5 February, another meeting was held in Tuzla to prepare for a revolt. From there, a call was issued to the Bosnian Muslim populace asking them to rise up to the defense of Bosnia. It was then that the popular Gradaščević was unofficially chosen to head the rebellion. Further details of this meeting are murky and disputable. According to certain contemporary sources, their demands from Constantinople were:\n\n\nAnother outcome of the Tuzla meeting was an agreement that another general meeting should be held in Travnik. Since Travnik was the seat of the Bosnia Eyalet and of the vizier, the planned meeting was in effect a direct confrontation with Ottoman authority. Gradaščević thus asked all involved to help assemble an army beforehand. On 29 March 1831, Gradaščević set out towards Travnik with some 4,000 men.\n\nUpon hearing word of the oncoming force, Namık Pasha is said to have gone to the Travnik fort and called the Sulejmanpašić brothers to his aid. When the rebel army arrived in Travnik they fired several warning shots at the castle, warning the vizier that they were prepared for a military encounter. Meanwhile, Gradaščević sent a detachment of his forces, under the command of Memiš-aga of Srebrenica, to meet Sulejmanpašić's reinforcements. The two sides met at Pirot, on the outskirts of Travnik, on 7 April. There, Memiš-aga defeated the Sulejmanpašić brothers and their 2,000-man army, forcing them to retreat and destroying the possessions of the Sulejmanpašić family. On 21 May, Namık Pasha fled to Stolac following a short siege. Soon afterwards, Husein Gradaščević was honorably proclaimed the \"commander of Bosnia, chosen by the will of the people\". On 31 May he demanded that all Bosnian aristocrats immediately join his army, and called on the general populace who wished to do so. Thousands rushed to join him, among them being numerous Christians, who were said to comprise up to a third of his total forces. Gradaščević split his army in two, leaving one part of it in Zvornik to defend against a possible Serbian incursion. With the bulk of the troops he set out towards Kosovo to meet the Grand vizier, who had been sent with a large army to quell the rebellion. Along the way, he took the city of Peć with a 25,000-strong army and proceeded to Priština, where he set up his main camp.\n\nThe encounter with Grand Vizier Reşid Mehmed Pasha happened on 18 July near Štimlje. Although both armies were of roughly equal size, the Grand Vizier's troops had superior arms. Gradaščević sent a part of his army under the command of Ali Pasha Fidahić, the captain (\"kapetan\") and sanjak-bey of Zvornik, ahead to meet Reşid Pasha's forces. Following a small skirmish, Fihadić feigned a retreat. Thinking that victory was within reach, the Grand Vizier sent his cavalry and artillery into forested terrain. Gradaščević immediately took advantage of this tactical error and executed a punishing counterattack with the bulk of his forces, almost completely annihilating the Ottoman forces. Reşid Pasha himself was injured and barely escaped with his life.\n\nFollowing claims from the Grand Vizier that the Sultan would meet all Bosnian demands if the rebel army would return home, Gradaščević and his army turned back. On 10 August the leadership of the rebellion met at Priština and decided that Gradaščević be declared Vizier of Bosnia. Gradaščević refused at first, but eventually accepted. This was made official at an assembly held in Sarajevo on 12 September, where in front of the Tsar's Mosque, those present swore on the Quran to be loyal to Gradaščević and declared that, despite potential failure and death, there would be no turning back.\n\nAt this point, Gradaščević was not only the supreme military commander, but Bosnia's leading civilian authority as well. He established a court around him, and after initially making himself at home in Sarajevo, he moved the center of Bosnian politics to Travnik, making it the \"de facto\" capital of the rebel state. In Travnik, he established a \"divan\", a Bosnian congress, which together with him made up the Bosnian government. Gradaščević also collected taxes at this time, and executed various local opponents of the autonomy movement. He gained a reputation as a hero and a strong, brave, and decisive ruler. One anecdote that illustrates this is Husein-kapetan's alleged response to whether he was scared of waging war against the Ottoman Empire. \"God I fear slightly,\" Gradaščević replied, \"the Sultan not at all, and the Grand Vizier no more than my own horse.\"\n\nDuring this lull in armed conflict with the Ottomans, attention was turned to the autonomy movement's strong opposition in Herzegovina. A small campaign was launched against the region from three different directions:\n\n\nAs it happened, Namık Pasha had already abandoned Stolac, so this attack was put on hold. The attack on Gacko was a failure as the forces from Posavina and south Podrinje were defeated by Čengić's troops. There was one success, however; in October, Husein Gradaščević had deployed an army under the command of Ahmed-beg Resulbegović, who had put his life in danger while attempting to capture Trebinje from Resulbegović's loyalist and heavily armed cousins.\n\nA Bosnian delegation reached the Grand Vizier's camp in Skopje in November, and was promised that the Grand Vizier would insist to the Sultan to accept Bosnian demands and appoint Gradaščević as the official Vizier of an autonomous Bosnia. His true intentions, however, were manifested by early December when he attacked Bosnian rebel units stationed on the outskirts of Novi Pazar. Yet again, the rebel army handed a defeat to the imperial forces. Due to a particularly strong winter though, the Bosnian troops were forced to return home.\n\nMeanwhile, in Bosnia, Gradaščević decided to carry on his campaign against the captains in Herzegovina that were loyal to the Sultan, despite the unfavorable climate. The captain of Livno, Ibrahim-beg Fidrus, was ordered to launch a final attack against the local captains and to thus end all domestic opposition to the autonomy movement. To achieve this, Fidrus first attacked Ljubuški and the local captain Sulejman-beg, which he defeated and then secured the whole of Herzegovina except Stolac in the process. Unfortunately, the rebel detachments that laid siege to the Stolac Fortress met cannon fire and ambushes organized by Ali-paša Rizvanbegović in early March of the next year. Receiving information that the Bosnian ranks were depleted due to the winter, Rizvanbegović broke the siege, counterattacking the rebels and dispersing their forces; in doing so he proved that his fortress at Stolac was nearly impregnable. Husein Gradaščević, knowing of the eventual outcome, sent another well-equipped force towards Stolac from Sarajevo, under the command of Mujaga Zlatar, but it was ordered back on 16 March after receiving news of a major offensive on Bosnia being planned by the Grand Vizier.\n\nThe Ottoman campaign began in early February. The Grand Vizier sent two armies: one from Vučitrn and one from Shkodër. Both armies headed toward Sarajevo, and Gradaščević sent an army of around 10,000 men to meet them. When the Vizier's troops succeeded in crossing the Drina, Gradaščević ordered 6,000 men under Ali-paša Fidahić to meet them in Rogatica while units stationed in Višegrad were to head to Pale on the outskirts of Sarajevo. The encounter between the two sides finally happened on the Glasinac plains to the east of Sarajevo, near Sokolac, at the end of May. The Bosnian army was led by Gradaščević himself, while the Ottoman troops were under the command of Kara Mahmud Hamdi-paša, the new imperially recognized vizier of Bosnia. In this first encounter, Gradaščević was forced to retreat to Pale. The fighting continued in Pale and Gradaščević was once again forced to retreat; this time to Sarajevo. There, a council of captains decided that the fight would continue.\n\nBy 1832, after a series of smaller clashes, a decisive battle occurred outside Sarajevo; although Husein Gradaščević was initially successful, he was defeated when Serbian rebels arrived and sided with and reinforced the forces of Mahmud II.\n\nThe final battle was played out on 4 June at Stup, a small locality on the road between Sarajevo and Ilidža. After a long, intense battle, it seemed Gradaščević had once again defeated the Sultan's army. Near the very end, however, Herzegovinian troops under the command of Ali-paša Rizvanbegović and Smail-aga Čengić broke through defenses Gradaščević had set up on his flank and joined the fighting. Overwhelmed by the unexpected attack from behind, the rebel army was forced to retreat into the city of Sarajevo itself. It was decided that further military resistance would be futile. Gradaščević fled to Gradačac as the imperial army entered the city on 5 June and prepared to march on Travnik. Upon realizing the difficulties that his home and family would experience if he stayed there, Gradaščević decided to leave Gradačac and continue on to Austrian lands instead.\n\nIf the choice to flee Bosnia was not already clear, the Sultan's furious \"fatwa\" declaring Gradaščević \"no good\", an \"evil-doer\", a \"traitor\", a \"criminal\" and a \"rebel\" may have convinced Gradaščević to leave. Due to various customs and procedures, however, Gradaščević's departure from Bosnia was held up for several days. After pleading with Austrian officials to ease their restrictions, Gradaščević finally reached the Sava River boundary with a large party of followers on 16 June. He crossed the river into Habsburg lands the same day, along with some 100 followers, servants, and family. Though he expected to be treated as a Bosnian vizier, he instead found himself held in quarantine in Slavonski Brod for nearly a month, with his weapons and many of his possessions taken away.\n\nGradaščević and other rebels managed to flee across the Sava to Vinkovci and then Osijek, in Austrian territory. Some 66 men, 12 women, 135 servants and 252 horses accompanied him.\n\nAustrian officials faced constant pressure from the Ottoman government to move Gradaščević as far away from the border as possible. On 4 July he was moved to Osijek where he essentially lived in internment. His communications with the rest of his family and social circle were severely limited and he complained about his treatment to the authorities several times. His conditions would eventually improve, and before he left Osijek he remarked to local officials that he had enjoyed his stay there. Although intensely homesick and only partially in control of his own destiny, Gradaščević retained his pride and dignity. He was said to have lived a luxurious life that included jousting competitions with his companions.\n\nIn late 1832, he agreed to return to Ottoman territory to receive a \"ferman\" of pardon from the Sultan. The terms, read to him in Zemun, were very harsh, insisting that Gradaščević not only never to return to Bosnia, but also never to set foot on the European lands of the Ottoman Empire either. Disappointed, Gradaščević was forced to obey the terms and rode on to Belgrade. He entered the city on 14 October in the manner of a true vizier, riding a horse decked out in silver and gold and accompanied by a large procession. He was greeted as a hero by the Muslims in Belgrade and treated like an equal by the local \"pasha\". Gradaščević stayed in the city for two months, during which his health deteriorated (as was documented by local doctor Bartolomeo Kunibert). He left the city for Constantinople in December, but as his daughter was still very young, his wife remained in Belgrade, joining him in the spring of the following year.\n\nIn Constantinople Gradaščević lived in an old \"janissary\" barracks at \"atmejdan\" (Hippodrome square) while his family lived in a separate house nearby. He lived a relatively quiet life for the next two years, the only notable event being an offer from the Sultan for Gradaščević to become a high-ranking \"pasha\" in the Nizami army; an offer that Gradaščević indignantly refused.\nHe died in Constantinople in 1834 at the age of thirty-two. Legend has it that he was poisoned by imperial authorities but, considering his long failing health, a more probable cause might have been cholera. It claims that he was buried in Eyup Sultan Cemetery near the site of the old veterinary school, but it is not certain.\n\nHusein Gradaščević was a living legend in his own time. Upon his death, he also became something of a martyr for Bosnian pride. There was a well-known saying among Bosniaks that \"for years after his death not a single man among our people would be able to hear his name and not shed a tear.\" This positive sentiment was not exclusive to the Muslim population, as Christians from Posavina are thought to have shared a similar view for decades.\n\nAlthough a majority of the Bosniaks in Herzegovina supported the cause of Husein Gradaščević, some of its ruling kapetans such as Ali-paša Rizvanbegović supported Sultan Mahmud II for their own personal gains, in the years that followed the \"Herzegovina kapetans\" suffered during the Herzegovina Uprising (1875–1878) mainly due to the lack of a centralized authority in Bosnia Eyalet.\n\nThe first historic literature written about Gradaščević can be found in Safvet-beg Bašagić's work from 1900, \"A short introduction into the past of Bosnia and Herzegovina\". However, due to historical differences between the Bašagić and Gradaščević families, Safvet-beg's view of Husein-kapetan is somewhat opinionated. A year later, Gradaščević was mentioned by Kunibert in his works on the first Serbian Uprising, which painted a positive picture of Gradaščević as a tragic hero.\n\nIn the years that followed, Gradaščević was mentioned, either specifically or in the context of the movement he led, by D. Pavlović, Slavko Kaluđerčić, and Hamdija Kreševljaković. The general sentiment was that the autonomy movement was merely a reaction to imperial reforms by the Bosnian upper class. This view would be predominant among historians for decades. Gradaščević had a minor resurgence during World War II when Ustaše launched a propaganda-rooted proposal to bring his remains back to Sarajevo.\n\nDuring the time of Communist Yugoslavia, Gradaščević and his movement were rarely mentioned. The perceived upper-class resistance to implementation of modern reforms did not go well with communist ideology. Gradaščević was briefly mentioned in such a light by Avdo Sućeska in his 1964 work on Bosnian captains. It would be another 24 years before Gradaščević was mentioned again. This time it was in Galib Šljiva's 1988 work on Bosnia in the first half of the 19th century. Though several historiographical controversies were resolved, there was no significant shift in the perception of Gradaščević.\n\nSince the Yugoslav Wars and the Bosniak national awakening, Gradaščević and his movement have experienced a rebirth among historians and the common public alike. Works by Ahmed S. Aličić, Mustafa Imamović, and Husnija Kamberović have all cast Gradaščević in a more positive light. Gradaščević is once again widely considered the greatest Bosniak national hero, and is a symbol of national pride and spirit. The main streets in Gradačac and Sarajevo are both named after him, as well as numerous other places in Bosnia and Herzegovina. An impressive statue and monument to Gradaščević are to be built in Gradačac sometime in the near future. Talk of returning Gradaščević's remains to Bosnia has been proposed, but little has come of it.\n\nIn the past few decades, the Bosniaks have given him the honorific \"the Dragon of Bosnia\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49730915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49730915", "title": "Iain R. Smith", "text": "Iain R. Smith\n\nIain Robertson Smith (born July 1939) is emeritus reader in history at the University of Warwick. He is a specialist in the history of South Africa and the South African War in particular. Smith was a member of Council of The Historical Association from 1980 to 1995 and editor of the New Appreciations in History series.\n\nIain Smith was born in July 1939. He received his advanced education at the University of Edinburgh (M.A.) and the University of Wisconsin (M.A.) where he was a Fulbright Scholar. He earned his D.Phil. from St. Antony's College, University of Oxford.\n\nSmith is emeritus reader in history at the University of Warwick. He is a specialist in the history of South Africa and the South African War in particular. His book on \"The origins of the South African War, 1899-1902\" (1996) was welcomed in Afrikaans circles but criticised by some English speaking scholars as too limited in scope. Kobus du Pisani in H-Net praised it for its \"old-fashioned approach, maintaining a strong narrative line\" but also criticised the book as \"one-sided\" and for failing to examination contemporary Boer sources. Smith recently contributed to a reappraisal of the Siege of Mafeking and is researching the concentration or internment camps, established for Boer and Black civilians in South Africa by the British.\n\nHe was a member of Council of The Historical Association from 1980 to 1995 and editor of the New Appreciations in History series. He has held visiting academic positions at the University of Cape Town (1989), University of Pretoria (1993, 2001), Institute of Commonwealth Studies London (1987), Mansfield College Oxford (1997), University of Tbilisi, Georgian Republic (1991), and the Institute of Historical Research, Helsinki (1998).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18591574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18591574", "title": "Idzi Panic", "text": "Idzi Panic\n\nIdzi Jan Panic (born 1952 in Wodzisław Śląski) is Polish historian, professor at the University of Silesia. He is specializing in history of Cieszyn Silesia and medieval Poland.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Silesia in 1976 and gained a Ph.D. from this university in 1980. In 1999 Panic gained the title of professor.\n\nHis articles were published in \"Studia Historyczne\", \"Sobótka. Śląski Kwartalnik Historyczny\", \"Pamiętnik Cieszyński\" and \"Těšínsko\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12975655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12975655", "title": "Jian Bozan", "text": "Jian Bozan\n\nJian Bozan (; April 14, 1898 – December 18, 1968) was a Chinese scholar and Marxist historian of Uyghur descent. Born in Taoyuan County, Hunan province, Jian became an early supporter of the Communist Party of China. From 1952 to his death, he was Vice President of Peking University. Like many authoritative academic figures of his generation, he was persecuted during the Cultural Revolution over a perceived divergence between his own ideas and that of dominant Maoist orthodoxy of the time. Unable to bear torture, Jian committed suicide in 1968.\n\nJian Bozan traces his ancestry to the present-day Xinjiang region of China. He was a direct descendant of a Uyghur General (哈勒巴士) who served the Emperor of the Ming Dynasty in quelling a Miao Rebellion in southeastern China. The Emperor rewarded his family with the surname \"Jian\" (翦), and married him to his god-daughter, the Duyi Princess. Jian Family then settled in Taoyuan County for generations. They gradually integrated into Han Chinese culture over years. \"Jian\" (翦) is very unusual surname in China.\n\nIn 1916, he entered school in Beijing, where he studied and conducted research about Chinese economic history. His graduation thesis was a 50,000-character study of the history of China's currency system. Believing that industry was China's savior, he travelled to the University of California in 1924 to research economics. During this time, he studied Anti-Dühring, The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State, The Communist Manifesto, and other famous Marxist works. He returned to China in 1926. Jian was a patriot, and participated in the protests leading up to the March 18 Massacre of that year. He published his first Marxist interpretation of Chinese history during the 1930s, and joined the Communist Party of China in 1937. In 1934, while serving as secretary to Qin Zhen, deputy head of the Judicial Yuan, Jian went on a tour of numerous countries around the world. As a close ally of the Communist Party, Jian became professor of history at Peking University after the party's rise to power in 1949, and later served as dean of the faculty of history and vice-president of the university.\n\nJian became a target of struggle during the early stages of the Cultural Revolution. During the early 1960s, Jian began to advocate historical accounts that combined the methodology of class analysis and historicism. For this, Mao Zedong criticized Jian at the end of 1965. Qi Benyu, a prominent Maoist figure of the time period, also criticized Jian on four counts: opposing the theory of class struggle, denigrating peasant revolutions, praising emperors and kings, and applauding conciliatory policies. Jian also suffered from severe torture and was lynched at the hands of radicals. The ill treatment drove Jian to commit suicide. Jian, along with his wife, took an overdose of sleeping pills and died on December 18, 1968.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10124637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10124637", "title": "John Carter Brown Library", "text": "John Carter Brown Library\n\nThe John Carter Brown Library is an independently funded research library of history and the humanities on the campus of Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. The library's rare book, manuscript, and map collections encompass a variety of topics related to the history of European discovery, exploration, settlement, and development of the New World until circa 1825.\n\nThe Library originated in the mid-nineteenth century when it began as the private collection of John Carter Brown (1797–1874) who conceived of it being a collection of books written about the discovery of the New World, rather than a gentleman’s financial investment or a rich man’s adornment. This enlightened and pioneering collecting passion was transmitted to his son, John Nicholas Brown (1861–1900). Until John Nicholas Brown’s untimely death, the John Carter Brown Library was kept in a special fireproof room in the Brown family house in the 1792 Nightingale-Brown House. The will of John Nicholas Brown directed that within four years of his death, his trustees were to establish the collection, together with a building to house it, at a permanent site of their choice. They selected Brown University (named in honor of John Carter Brown’s father, Nicholas Brown, Jr.).\n\nThe collection of the John Carter Brown Library consists of more than 50,000 books written about both North and South America until roughly the end of the colonial era in the Americas, as well as around 16,000 specialized reference books providing supplementary information about the Library’s holdings. The Library also holds a major collection of prints, manuscripts, and maps of the New World.\n\nThe collection of the John Carter Brown Library begins chronologically with fifteenth-century editions of Columbus’s celebrated “letter” to the Spanish court announcing the discovery of lands to the west. The Library houses one of the largest collections of books printed in British North America before 1800, the world’s most complete collection of Mexican works printed before 1600, the largest collection of printed works relating to Brazil before 1820, the finest collection of printed sources for the study of early Canada and the Caribbean to be found in the United States, nearly three-quarters of all known imprints in the native languages of North and South America from the colonial period, and the largest collection of political pamphlets produced at the time of the American revolution.\n\nThe Library also holds many important maps and prints relating to the New World. These maps include one of the first printed attempts to depict America in cartographic form (the so-called Stevens-Brown map, a prototype of the 1513 Ptolemy Orbis Typus); the first printed map of Hernán Cortés’s Mexico City, built on the ruins of the Aztec capital, Tenochtitlán; the earliest known printed plan of a European settlement in what is now the United States (a plan of Fort Caroline built by Huguenot settlers in 1565 near present-day Jacksonville, Florida); and one of the earliest maps to show the French exploration of the Mississippi River, attributed to Louis Joliet.\n\nThe Library is housed in a Beaux-Arts style building, designed by the architects Shepley, Rutan, and Coolidge, and completed in 1904. The building was expanded in 1990, with funds from a donation by New Jersey financier, philanthropist, and Brown alumnus Finn M. W. Caspersen (B.A. 1963). The four-story annex, designed by the Washington D.C. architects Hartman-Cox, was named the \"Caspersen Building\" in honor of Caspersen's parents. It is located on the main green of Brown University.\n\nThe Archive of Early American Images is drawn from the holdings of the John Carter Brown Library. The AEAI assists scholars in their quest for contemporary images to illustrate their research findings and to facilitate the study of historical images in their own right and in proper context. It is a unique resource for picture researchers, documentary filmmakers, and others looking for material for commercial use. Many of these American images come from books printed in the early modern period that have never been reproduced before.\n\nAs of August 2014, the database—which also includes a Map Collection, Political Cartoon Collection, and John Russell Bartlett Boundary Commission Collection—has about 11,270 images and is still growing. Images in this database are accompanied by extensive bibliographical and descriptive information and come from books in most European, and some indigenous, languages from before c. 1825.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4145179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4145179", "title": "Ken Inglis", "text": "Ken Inglis\n\nKenneth Stanley Inglis, (7 October 1929 – 1 December 2017) was an Australian historian.\n\nInglis completed his Master's degree at the University of Melbourne and his doctorate at the University of Oxford. In 1956 he was appointed as a lecturer to the University of Adelaide. He subsequently became Professor of History at the Australian National University, and the University of Papua New Guinea.\n\nInglis has written extensively on the Anzac tradition, the Stuart Case, war memorials, and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. In 2008 he joined the Faculty of Arts at Monash University, Melbourne, as an Adjunct Professor.\n\nInglis died, aged 88, on 1 December 2017.\n\nInglis was born in the Melbourne suburb of Ivanhoe, Victoria, on 7 October 1929, the son of Stan and Rene Inglis. He was educated at Tyler Street Public School, Northcote Boys' Hight School and Melbourne High School, before going to study at the University of Melbourne. Inglis participated in the Student Christian Movement and amateur dramatics during his studies, and worked as a tutor at Ormond College. After graduating with a Bachelor of Arts with first class honours in History and English, he read for a Master of Arts at Melbourne. Inglis' thesis, which was a history of the Royal Melbourne Hospital, was later revised and published as his first book, \"Hospital and Community\" (Melbourne University Press, 1958).\n\n\nThe book also won the: \n\n"}
{"id": "31965225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31965225", "title": "Kesh temple hymn", "text": "Kesh temple hymn\n\nThe Kesh Temple Hymn or Liturgy to Nintud or Liturgy to Nintud on the creation of man and woman is a Sumerian tablet, written on clay tablets as early as 2600 BCE. Along with the Instructions of Shuruppak, it is the oldest surviving literature in the world.\n\nFragments of the text were discovered in the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology catalogue of the Babylonian section (CBS) from their excavations at the temple library at Nippur. One fragment of the text found on CBS tablet number 11876 was first published by Hugo Radau in \"Miscellaneous Sumerian Texts,\" number 8 in 1909. Radau's fragment was translated by Stephen Herbert Langdon in 1915. Langdon published a translation from a perforated, four sided, Sumerian prism from Nippur and held in the Ashmolean in Oxford in 1913 (number 1911-405) in \"Babylonian Liturgies.\" The prism contains around 145 lines in eight sections, similar to the Hymn to Enlil. Langdon called it \"A Liturgy to Nintud, Goddess of Creation\" and noted that each section ended with the same refrain, which he interpreted as referring \"to the creation of man and woman, the Biblical Adam and Eve.\" Langdon translated two further fragments in 1914 and 1917.\n\nThe myth was developed with the addition of CBS 8384, translated by George Aaron Barton in 1918 and first published as \"Sumerian religious texts\" in \"Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions,\" number eleven, entitled \"A Fragment of the so-called 'Liturgy to Nintud.'\" The tablet is at its thickest point. Barton's tablet contained nine sections from which he was able to translate sections four, five and six. Barton argued for the abandonment of the myth's subtitle, the \"creation of man.\" He claimed, \"So far as the writer can see, there is no allusion in the text to the creation of man.\" He notes only the allusion to the goddess he called Nintu as \"the mother of mankind.\" He suggested, \"Apparently the text celebrated the primitive (or very early) conditions of some town; possibly the founding and growth of the town, but beyond this we can confidently affirm nothing.\"\n\nCBS tablet 6520 was published in 1929 by Edward Chiera in \"Sumerian Lexical Texts\". Chiera also published three more tablets—CBS 7802, CBS 13625 and CBS 14153—in \"Sumerian Epics and Myths\". Other translations were made from tablets in the Nippur collection of the Museum of the Ancient Orient in Istanbul (Ni). Chiera translated number Ni 2402 in \"Sumerian Religious Texts\" in 1924. Hermann Volrath Hilprecht and Samuel Noah Kramer amongst others worked to translate several others from the Istanbul collection including Ni 4371, 4465, 4555 & 9773, 4597, 9649, 9810, 9861 & 9903. A further tablet source of the myth is held by the Louvre in Paris, number AO 6717. Others are held in the Ashmolean number 1929-478, British Museum number 115798 and the Walters Art Museum number 48.1802, formerly called the \"David prism\". Further tablets containing the text were excavated at Isin, modern Ishan al-Bahriyat. More were found at Henri de Genouillac's excavations at Kish (B 150) and Jean Perrot's excavations at Susa. Sir Charles Leonard Woolley unearthed more tablets at Ur contained in the \"Ur excavations texts\" from 1928. Other tablets and versions were used to bring the myth to its present form with the latest composite text by Miguel Civil produced in 1992 with latest translation by Gene Gragg in 1969 and Joachim Krecher in 1966. Gragg described the text as \"one of the best preserved literary texts that we possess from the Old Babylonian period\".\n\nRobert D. Biggs translated an exceptionally archaic version of the hymn from Tell Abu Salabikh. He dated this version to around 2600 BCE based upon similarities to tablets found in Shuruppak and dated to a similar age by Anton Deimer in the 1920s. Subsequent radiocarbon dating of samples taken from Tell Abu Salabikh date the site to 2550-2520 BCE however, a timeframe slightly more recent than the one Biggs proposed. Biggs recognized various differences in the archaic cuneiform and that \"the literary texts of this period were unrecognized for so long is due to the fact that they present formidable obstacles to comprehension\". He suggests that Abu Salabikh could have been the location of Kesh, however points out that it is not near Adab as described and that Kesh could have just been a variation in the spelling of Kish. He discusses how the hymn is preserved for so long in later Nippur texts, saying \"Although the Abu Saläbikh copies are approximately eight centuries earlier than copies known before, there is a surprisingly small amount of deviation (except in orthography) between them. The Old Babylonian version is thus not a creation of Old Babylonian scribes using older material, but is a faithful reflection of a text that had already been fixed in the Sumerian literary tradition for centuries.\" Biggs suggested \"that other traditional works of literature may also go back in essentially their present form to the last third of the third millennium BCE at least.\"\n\nVictor Hurowitz referred to it as the \"Kesh Temple building hymn\" and suggests the hymn begins with a description and Enlil praising the city Kesh and its selection and establishment of the Ekur by Enlil. He also discusses the writing of the hymn by another god called Nisaba. Sabrina P. Ramet commented on the presence and role of Nisaba (or Nidaba) in the establishment of the temple. She refers to her as the \"goddess of vegetation, writing and literature including astronomical texts, the deity of the \"house of understanding\" (most likely intelligence), and as she who 'knows the (inmost) secrets of numbers'.\" Nisaba records the events and provides a \"standard version\" of the events as they really happened. Charpin and Todd noted in the relationship between Enlil and Nisuba (similar to Yahweh and Moses) how the text is the work of gods, who created and transmitted it to humans, giving the literature a reason for legitimacy.\n\nThe myth goes on to describe the temple dedication rites and explains that the Annanuki were the lords of the temple. He suggests that the hymn mentions \"objects placed in the temple upon its completion.\" His translation of the introduction reads:\n\nThe hymn is composed of 134 lines, formally divided into eight songs or \"houses\" or \"temples\", each of which ends with three rhetorical questions discussing the birth of Nintud's warrior son, Acgi:\n\nLines one to twenty one describe the election and praise of Kesh as recorded by Nisaba, twenty two to forty four liken the temple to the moon against the sky containing the life sources of Sumer and its cosmic dimensions filling the world. Lines forty five to fifty seven give a metaphorical description of the temple reaching both for the heaven and descending into the underworld. Lines fifty eight to seventy three discuss the complexities of the temple with vast quantities of oxen and sheep. The temple is likened to the trees from which wood was used in its construction. The gods and functions of the temple are described and praised during temple dedication with different parts of the temple described: its interior and exterior appearance, its gate, courtyard, door and walls. The hymn ends on the conclusion to approach the temple.\n\nWayne Horowitz working from Gragg's translation, discusses the mention of the Abzu in the myth saying it \"occurs as a name for the cosmic waters of the water table beneath the earth's surface in Sumerian literature.\"\n\nThe latest translation describes its founders, geography and features:\n\nBarton translated the actions of the Annanuki in and around the temple:\n\nJeremy Black suggests the hymn describes the statues of bulls or lions that were placed at the entrances to temples \"Kesh temple, <before which> (something) in the shape of winged lions stands, (something) in the shape of 'white' wild bulls stands facing the desert.\" The hymn discusses music being played at the temple towards the end with drums and the coarse sound of a bull's horn sounding at temple ceremonies: \"the wild bull's horn was made to growl, the \"algarsura\" instrument was made to thud.\" Samuel Noah Kramer suggested that the musical instruments mentioned in the hymn were played in accompaniment. He proposed that the \"tigi\" was probably a hymn accompanied by lyre, that \"irshemma\" was perhaps one accompanied by a type of drum and that \"adab\" possibly a hymn accompanied by another form of string instrument.\n\nThe hymn finishes with an admonition repeated four times suggested to be both a warning and invocation of the divine presence in the temple. Such ambivalence about approaching temples has crucially influenced the development of Jewish and Christian mysticism.\n\nA.R. George suggests such hymns \"can be incorporated into longer compositions, as with the eulogy to Nippur and Ekur which makes up a large portion of a well-known Hymn to Enlil and the hymn to temples in Ur that introduces a Shulgi hymn.\"\n\nStephen Langdon suggested the hymn gave evidence of the Sumerian theological view that Enlil and Ninlil created mankind and living things. He noted that Nintud, the primary goddess of Kesh was \"a form of Ninlil in Nippur : in other words she is Ninlil of Kesh, where her character as goddess of begetting was emphasized.\" He noted based on an observation of Theophilus G. Pinches, that Ninlil or Belit Ilani had seven different names (such as Nintud, Ninhursag, Ninmah, etc.) for seven different localities. He also discussed the location of Kesh appearing to be near Kish to the east of Babylon calling the temple of Kesh \"Ekisigga\". Raymond de Hoop noted similarities between Sumerian temple hymns and chapter forty nine of Genesis in the Bible (). He suggests remarkably close syntactical and metaphorical parallels in the sayings about Joseph and Judah such as \"the highly esteemed prince (), \"a leopard, who seizes prey\" (), \"a great wild ox / a wild bull\" () and \" seed of a (the) steer, engendered by a wild ox (). Jeremy Black noted that Kesh was no longer a major settlement by the time of the later Babylonian versions but presumed that the temple of Nintud still functioned. Wilfred G. Lambert noted that many kings had built temples and chapels to Ninhursag, but that the Kesh sanctuary \"was the centre of the goddess's cult from the Early Dynastic period into the Old Babylonian Dynasty; after this time it lost its importance\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42228580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42228580", "title": "Lady Esther", "text": "Lady Esther\n\nLady Esther was the trademark of a cosmetic manufacturing company founded by German-born Syma Cohen and her siblings in Chicago in 1913 and operated as Lady Esther Company. It was incorporated in Illinois in 1922 and became America’s top selling brand of cosmetics in the United States. Its success in large part can be attributed to Syma and her brother Alfred Busiel and their innovative marketing through in-store demonstrations, print advertising and sponsorship of national radio programs. In 1949 Syma Cohen sold her half share in the company to her brother Alfred and following his death the company eventually was sold. Subsequently it had a number of owners. Now a United States company owns the trademark in the United States and a German cosmetic manufacturer owns the business in the rest of the world.\n\nSyma Cohen began the cosmetics manufacturing business with some of her siblings, including her sister Esther, after whom the company was named. Esther left the business early on and Syma registered the trade name “Lady Esther”, in her name in 1913. She sold Lady Esther cream and powder going from home to home and later to drug stores in Chicago and vicinity. In 1922 she caused the company to be incorporated as “Lady Esther Company” and its name was later changed to “Lady Esther, Ltd.” The company undertook an aggressive advertising program in newspapers, magazines and by radio on a nationwide basis. In 1923 it advertised its products at an expense of $143,000.00 with an increase each year, and by 1936 it expended more than 1.5 million dollars. During those years its sales were in excess of thirty six million dollars.\n\nThe company’s first venture into national radio broadcasting was a sponsorship of the Lady Esther serenade featuring Wayne King and his orchestra. The first broadcast was on September 27, 1931 and Wayne King and Lady Esther parted company in 1939-40. The company continued its national broadcasting sponsorship in 1941 with a live CBS Radio series, “The Orson Welles Show”, which was also known as the “Lady Esther Show”. This was followed by a six season sponsorship of “Lady Esther Presents the Screen Guild Players”.\n\nDuring this time the company steadily grew and the owners prospered. It had built a 20,000 square foot facility at 5710 Armitage Avenue in Chicago and in 1933 leased the 65,000 square foot four story and basement plant of the Tinkertoy Company at 2012 Ridge Avenue, Evanston, Illinois. \n\nAbout a year later Syma Cohen purchased a mansion on Sheridan Road in Glencoe, Illinois for $127,000.00. The house was built on 16.89 acres and contained 19 rooms and 7 baths. There were elaborate greenhouses and 3 formal gardens. The site is now the location of North Shore Congregation Israel. \n\nThe popularity of Lady Esther began to wane in the middle 1940s. Other businesses were trying to capitalize on the name and the company became very protective of its trademark. Syma sold her share of the business to Alfred and left the company. She traveled extensively throughout the world and later sold the mansion. Her brother Alfred had died in 1951 and the company had numerous owners. Syma Cohen-Busiel moved into a suite in Chicago’s Drake Hotel where she died in 1990 at 99 years of age. The trademark owners in the United States are now a pharmaceutical wholesale company which has no production facilities. A German company Lady Esther Kosmetik GMBH is now the trademark owner elsewhere in the world.\n\nSeptember 27, 1931 – January 25, 1941\nThe first national radio program sponsored by Lady Esther was “The Lady Esther Serenade” featuring Wayne King and his orchestra. The band’s popularity had been boosted by its recording in 1930 of “The Waltz You Saved for Me” which became King’s theme song. “The Lady Esther Serenade” was broadcast at least twice a week in primetime on CBS and/or NBC and Lady Esther became America’s top-selling brand of cosmetics.\n\nSeptember 15, 1941 – February 2, 1942\nThe show was also known as the Orson Welles Theater and “Lady Esther Presents Orson Welles.” It was a variety show featuring Orson Welles and his Mercury Theater troupe. One program in the NBC series has become a suspense classic. The Hitch-Hiker written by Lucille Fletcher and starring Orson Welles aired on November 17, 1941. Other programs featured Joseph Cotten, Ginger Rogers, Rita Hayworth, John Barrymore and Agnes Moorehead. Scheduled for 26 weeks the show ended prematurely when Welles left on his ill-fated It’s “All True” trip to Brazil.\n\nOctober 3, 1942 – July 7, 1947\nLady Esther was looking for a prestigious show to showcase its products and settled on the Screen Guild Theater which had been sponsored by Gulf Oil. It was first known as the “Lady Esther Presents the Screen Guild Players” and then became the Lady Esther Screen Guild Theater. The radio show brought movies to radio for thirty minutes each Monday evening on CBS, Truman Bradley was the announcer and the orchestra was led by Wilbur Hatch.\nThe show aired for 242 programs beginning with “Yankee Doodle Dandy” starring James Cagney and ending with “My Reputation.” In between were all time classics such as “Casablanca” with Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman, “Sergeant York” with Gary Cooper and “Holiday Inn” with Bing Crosby, Fred Astaire and Dinah Shore.\n"}
{"id": "11412489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11412489", "title": "Leser Landshuth", "text": "Leser Landshuth\n\nLeser Landshuth (15 January 1817 – 23 March 1887) was a German Jewish liturgiologist.\n\nHe went to Berlin as a youth to study Jewish theology, and there he became acquainted with Leopold Zunz and Abraham Geiger, the latter of whom was then staying in that city in order to become naturalized in Prussia. Landshuth soon gave up his intention of becoming a rabbi, not being willing to conceal or renounce his liberal opinions; and aided him in establishing himself as a Hebrew bookseller.\n\nMeanwhile, Landshuth kept up his literary activity; and in 1845 he published as an appendix to the prayer-book issued by Hirsch Edelmann (\"Siddur Hegyon Leb\"; commonly known as \"Landshuth's Prayer-Book\") an essay on the origin of Hebrew prayers. His essay on the \"Pesaḥ Haggadah\" (Berlin, 1855) and the introduction to the \"Ma'abar Yabboḳ,\" a handbook of the funeral customs of the Jews, are along similar lines (\",\" Berlin, 1867). A number of inscriptions from the tomb-stones of prominent men are added to the latter work.\n\nLandshuth's chief work was his \",\" on Hebrew liturgical poetry (2 vols., ib. 1857–62), a painstaking and important contribution to the subject. No less valuable are his works relating to the history of the Jewish community of Berlin, parts of which have been incorporated in Ludwig Geiger's \"\" (ib. 1871); other portions have been published in \"Die Gegenwart\" (ib. 1867) and other periodicals. He published also \",\" history of the Berlin rabbis 1671–1871 (ib. 1884). Many valuable manuscript notes by Landshuth passed into the possession of of Berlin; and other matter was reprinted by from Landshuth's notes in \"Ha-Meliẓ\", 1886.\n\nLandshuth also copied and arranged the early communal archives of Berlin (written in Hebrew) and the inscriptions of the old cemetery in that city, which was closed in 1827.\n\n"}
{"id": "38253723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38253723", "title": "List of World War I memorials and cemeteries in the Somme", "text": "List of World War I memorials and cemeteries in the Somme\n\nThis article lists the memorials and cemeteries around the area of the river Somme.\n\nMametz Wood was to be the scene of some of the bloodiest fighting of the opening days of the Battle of the Somme as taking the wood involved advancing uphill and over open ground whilst facing heavy machine gun fire and artillery. By 12 July the woods had been cleared of Germans but at a heavy cost with over 4,000 Welsh deaths and casualties. The Mametz memorial takes the form of a Welsh dragon challenging the wood to its fore. At one side of the base is carved the regimental cap badge of the South Wales Borderers. The sculptural work was by David Petersen.\n\nThe 38th (Welsh) Division was very much the result of personal initiatives by Lloyd George and was the Welsh equivalent of the \"Pals\" battalions from the North of England. So awful was the fighting here that a Welsh soldier, Wyn Griffith, described it as \"\"the horror of our way of life and death and of our crucifixion of youth\".\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215214", "title": "Mandate of Heaven", "text": "Mandate of Heaven\n\nThe Mandate of Heaven or Tian Ming () is a Chinese political and religious doctrine used since ancient times to justify the rule of the King or Emperor of China. According to this belief, heaven (天, \"Tian\")—which embodies the natural order and will of the universe—bestows the mandate on a just ruler of China, the \"Son of Heaven\" of the \"Celestial Empire\". If a ruler was overthrown, this was interpreted as an indication that the ruler was unworthy, and had lost the mandate. It was also a common belief among citizens that natural disasters such as famine and flood were signs of heaven's displeasure with the ruler, so there would often be revolts following major disasters as citizens saw these as signs that the Mandate of Heaven had been withdrawn.\n\nThe Mandate of Heaven does not require a legitimate ruler to be of noble birth, depending instead on the just and able performance of the rulers and their heirs. Dynasties such as the Han and Ming dynasties were founded by men of common origins. The concept is in some ways similar to the European concept of the divine right of kings; however, unlike the European concept, it does not in theory confer an unconditional right to rule, despite this being exactly the case in practicality. The Mandate would in theory be a preoccupation in a ruler's lifetime, when he would hold onto the Mandate and live according to Heavens. Intrinsic to the concept of the Mandate of Heaven was the right of rebellion against an unjust ruler. Chinese historians interpreted a successful revolt as evidence that Heaven had withdrawn its mandate from the ruler. Throughout Chinese history, times of poverty and natural disasters were often taken as signs that heaven considered the incumbent ruler unjust and thus in need of replacement. The Mandate of Heaven was often invoked by philosophers and scholars in China as a way to curtail the abuse of power by the ruler. While each dynasty was not the same, they each had a lineage that passed on the prospective ruler by order of generational descent or their priority of birth. Many emperors during the imperial times would optimize to have many sons who could be candidates to fill the position after the current ruler has died. In addition Heaven was thought to be of how a ruler's works and performance was, which reflected upon how favorable they would be to Heaven.\n\nMencius, a great philosopher who many thought was the successor to Confucius, said:\n\nThe concept of the Mandate of Heaven was first used to support the rule of the kings of the Zhou dynasty (1046–256 BCE), and legitimize their overthrow of the earlier Shang dynasty (1600–1069 BCE). It was used throughout the history of China to legitimize the successful overthrow and installation of new emperors, including non-Han ethnic monarchs such as the Qing dynasty (1636–1912). This concept was also used by monarchs in neighboring countries like Korea and Vietnam.\n\nChinese historians interpreted a successful revolt as evidence that the Mandate of Heaven had passed. In China, the right of rebellion against an unjust ruler has been a part of political philosophy ever since the Zhou dynasty, and the successful rebellion was interpreted by Chinese historians as evidence that divine approval had passed on to the successive dynasty. The Right of Rebellion is not coded into any official law. Rather, rebellion is always outlawed and severely punished; but is still a positive right grounded in the Chinese moral system. Often, it is used as a justification for actions to overthrow a previous dynasty after a rebellion has been successful and a new dynastic rule has been established. Since the winner is the one who determines who has obtained the Mandate of Heaven and who has lost it, some Chinese scholars consider it to be a sort of Victor's justice, best characterized in the popular Chinese saying \"The winner becomes king, the loser becomes outlaw\" (Chinese: “”). \n\nDue to the above, it is considered that Chinese historical accounts of the fall of a dynasty and the rise of a new one must be handled with caution. Chinese traditional historical compilation methods produce accounts that tend to fit their account to the theory; emphasizing aspects tending to prove that the old dynasty lost the Mandate of Heaven and the new one gained it, and de-emphasize other aspects.\n\nThe prosperous Shang dynasty saw its rule filled with many outstanding accomplishments. Notably, the dynasty lasted for a considerable time during which 31 kings ruled over an extended period of 17 generations. During this period, the dynasty enjoyed a period of peace and tranquility in which citizens could make a good living. The government was originally able to control most of its internal affairs due to the firm support provided by the people. As time went on, however, the rulers' abuse of the other social classes led to social unrest and instability. The corruption in this dynasty created the conditions necessary for a new ruling house to rise the Zhou dynasty. Rebellion against the Shang was led by Zhou Wu. They created the Mandate of Heaven to explain their right to assume rule and presumed that the only way to hold the mandate was to rule well in the eyes of Heaven. They believed that the Shang ruling house had become morally corrupt, and that the Shang leaders' loss of virtue entitled their own house to take over. The overthrow of the Shang Dynasty, they said, was in accordance with the mandate given by Heaven.\n\nAfter the Zhou became the ruling dynasty, they mostly appointed their own officials. The Zhou Dynasty had their own way of assigning their officials. However, in order to appease some of the citizens, they allowed some Shang beneficiaries to continue governing their small kingdoms in compliance with Zhou rules and regulations. As the empire continued to expand, intermarriage increased because the rulers believed that it was a method of forming strong alliances that enabled them to absorb more countries into the dynasty. In case of a war, the Zhou dynasty boasted an excellent military and technology mostly because of influence from annexed countries. They also excelled in shipbuilding, which, coupled with their discovery of celestial navigation, made them excellent mariners. Intellectually, the Zhou excelled in fields of literature and philosophy while many governmental positions were filled according to the intellectual ability of a candidate. A large amount of literature survives from the Zhou period, including the \"Book of Changes\", \"Book of History\", \"Book of Etiquette\", \"Book of Song\", \"Book of Odes\", and the \"Book of Rites\". Most of these works are commentaries on the progress and political movement of the dynasty. In philosophical terms, Confucius and his followers played an important role in shaping the mentality of the government as defined by the Five Confucian Relationships. These critical thinkers served as a foundation for the government. Their works primarily stressed the importance of the ruling class, respect and their relationship with the lower class. Due to the growing size of the dynasty, it became apparent that a centralized government would lead to a lot of confusion and corruption because the government would not be able to exert its influence or accede to the needs of everyone. To address this political barrier, the dynasty formed a decentralized government in which the empire was broken down into sections. Within these districts were administrators who were appointed by the government, in return, they had to maintain their allegiance to the main internal government. In effect, the Zhou dynasty became a collection of districts. Consequently, this marked the fall of the dynasty as it became difficult for the central government to exert influence on all other regions of the empire.\n\nFinally, when the Zhou dynasty's power decreased, it was wiped out by the State of Qin, which believed that the Zhou had become weak and their rule unjust. This transition emphasizes the customary trend of the Mandate of Heaven, which provided leeway for the rise of a new power. The Qin initially attempted to capitalize on the errors made by the Zhou, either by eliminating the source of error or reforming it. During this reformation, administrative changes were made and a system of legalism was developed which stated that the law is supreme over every individual, including the rulers. Although significant progress was made during the Qin dynasty, the persecution of scholars and ordinary citizens led to an unstable state.\n\nAfter the death of Qin Shihuang, first emperor of the Qin dynasty, a widespread revolt by prisoners, peasants, and unhappy soldiers inevitably led to the fall of the Qin dynasty due to its tyrannical practices. The establishment of the Han dynasty marked a great period in China’s history marked by significant changes in the political structure of the country. Under the Han emperors, significant changes were made in which the government introduced entrance examinations known as civil service or imperial examinations for governmental positions. Additionally, the Han dynasty prospered economically through the Silk Road and other trading means.\n\nDuring the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period, there was no dominant Chinese dynasty that ruled all of China. This created a problem for the Song dynasty that followed, as they wanted to legitimize their rule by claiming that the Mandate of Heaven had passed on them. The scholar-official Xue Juzheng compiled the \"Old History of the Five Dynasties\" (五代史) during the 960s and 970s, after the Song dynasty had taken northern China from the last of the Five Dynasties, the Later Zhou. A major purpose was to establish justification for the transference of the Mandate of Heaven through these five dynasties, and thus to the Song dynasty. He argued that these dynasties met certain vital criteria to be considered as having attained the Mandate of Heaven despite never having ruled all of China. One is that they all ruled the traditional Chinese heartland. They also held considerably more territory than any of the other Chinese states that had existed conterminously in the south.\n\nHowever, there were certain other areas where these dynasties all clearly fell short. The brutal behavior of Zhu Wen and the Later Liang was a source of considerable embarrassment, and thus there was pressure to exclude them from the Mandate. The following three dynasties, the Later Tang, Later Jin, and Later Han were all non-Han Chinese dynasties, all having been ruled by the Shatuo ethnic minority. There is also the concern that though each of them was the most powerful Chinese kingdom of its respective era, none of them ever really had the ability to unify the entire Chinese realm as there were several powerful states to the south. However, it was the conclusion of Xue Juzheng that the Mandate had indeed passed through each of the Five Dynasties, and thus onto the Song Dynasty when it conquered the last of those dynasties.\n\nIn previous dynasties the Song, Jin, and Yuan dynasties reigned for much of the beginning three centuries where the mandate of heaven was questioned heavily between dynastic councils among each emperor. Some emperors were not entirely sure of their validity when it came to claiming the mandate, for it was ambiguous. Especially for the case of the Jurchen Jin, where much of the council was not sure how to discern the validity of their rulers. From the Emperor Gaozong of the Tang Dynasty to Kangxi Emperor much of the chosen emperors contemplated much of this when they became a contender for the mandate. The reason for this was because of the ambiguity of the Mandate and overwhelmingly unofficial formality when declaring the Mandate of Heaven. However, Kubilai Khan was the only indifferent ruler when he claimed the Mandate of Heaven over the Yuan Dynasty since he had a sizable military and was part of the Khitan people, as with many others from the same background since they did not have the same traditions and culture as their Chinese adversaries.\n\nIt was said that the peasant group of the Ming dynasty were the real selectors which allowed for the Mandate of Heaven to be claimed by the ruler. As a prospective candidate to the Mandate, they could please the peasantry group in order to win favor amongst the dynasty. It was solely politics from beginning to end and an attempt from the emperor to maintain a favorable act towards Heaven. Many emperors within the Qing dynasty looked immensely within themselves trying to come to terms with their ruling if natural disasters occurred within their time. This was interpreted as a warning of Heaven's displeased wrath towards an emperors ruling, such that the Mandate under their rule was unstable. Furthermore, Qing emperors would take their advisors feedback very seriously when pertaining to ruling and take it upon themselves to reflect on their current decisions of the dynastic overview in hopes that it favors Heaven.\n\nThe concept of the Mandate of Heaven eventually spread to nearby countries as a justification for rule by divine political legitimacy. In Korea, it was first adopted by the Joseon dynasty and became an enduring state ideology.\n\nThe Japanese government found the concept ideologically problematic, preferring not to have divine political legitimacy that was conditional and that could be withdrawn. The Japanese Taihō Code, formulated in 703, was largely an adaptation of the governmental system of China's then Tang dynasty, but the Mandate of Heaven was specifically omitted. In later times, this need was obviated because the Imperial House of Japan claimed to be descended in an unbroken line from the Japanese sun goddess, Amaterasu. Nevertheless, while maintaining this role, the Japanese emperor became politically marginalized in the Nara and Heian periods by powerful regents of the Fujiwara clan who seized executive control of state. Even though the Japanese imperial line itself remained unbroken after the eighth century, actual political authority passed through successive dynasties of regents and \"shōguns\" which cycled in a manner similar to that of Chinese dynasties. Even after the Meiji Restoration in 1868, when the emperor was placed back in the center of the political bureaucracy, the throne itself had very little power vis-à-vis the Meiji oligarchy. Actual political power has passed through at least four systems since the Meiji restoration: the Taishō democracy, the militarists, the Occupation of Japan, and postwar democracy. The emperor today is a political figurehead and not a ruling sovereign. It could be said the imperial line of Japan survived for so long precisely because it did not have control over the state, and that the turmoil of succession was projected onto a series of proxy rulers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46698216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46698216", "title": "Matt Cook (historian)", "text": "Matt Cook (historian)\n\nMatt Cook is professor of modern history at Birkbeck College, University of London.\n\n"}
{"id": "1490327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1490327", "title": "Matthew 1:11", "text": "Matthew 1:11\n\nMatthew 1:11 is the eleventh verse of the first chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The verse is part of the section where the genealogy of Joseph, the father of Jesus, is listed. It is the last verse of the middle third of the listing.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nThis portion is part of the listing of the Kings of Judah and covers the period from the mid-7th century BC to the beginning of the Babylonian captivity. Josiah was a prominent monarch who reigned from 641 BC or 640 BC until 609 BC. Jeconiah came two monarchs later and is best known for being defeated and brought with his people in captivity in Babylon around 598 BC. \n\nThe main question about this passage is what it means by the word \"brothers\". According to the Books of Chronicles, Jeconiah only had one brother, so the plural does not make sense. A common view is to see Jeconiah's name in this section as an error. Jeconiah, who is already listed in , sometimes has his name written as \"Jehoiachin\" making it possible that the author of Matthew or a later scribe confused him with his father Jehoiakim. In Irenaeus' Latin version of this text Jehoiakim's name appears, but this is the only piece of textual evidence for this theory. All other ancient versions leave him out. Also in Iraneus, the brothers are still associated with Jeconiah. This theory would also address a number of other problems. Josiah is believed to be Jeconiah's grandfather rather than father, and having the listing of Jeconiah as two separate people would correct the seeming error in . Jehoiakim had a number of brothers and these are mentioned in . William F. Albright and C.S. Mann believe the author of Matthew mentioned the brothers, despite their having nothing to do with Jesus' genealogy, because they are prominently mentioned in Chronicles.\n\nRobert H. Gundry disagrees with this view. The Septuagint, from which Matthew seems to have got his spelling, uses the spellings Jeconiah, making it less likely that the name would be confused with Jehoiakim. Moreover the repeating of Jeconiah's name in the next verse matches the repeating of names that occurs throughout the genealogy. Gundry believes that \"brothers\" refers to the Jewish people in general who were brought to Babylon with their king, not the biological brothers of Jeconiah. Harold Fowler suggests that brothers might have simply meant \"family\", and the word was included since Jeconiah's family did have an important role in the Old Testament reports.\n\nFowler believes that the omission was explicitly intended. He argues that the \"at the time of the exile to Babylon\" makes it clear that this is not simply a genealogy, but also a quick summary of Jewish history. As such leaving out names would simply be part of the attempt to compress thousands of years of history into seventeen verses. The story of the Babylonian captivity is a long and complicated one, with many figures involved. Fowler argues that the word \"brothers\" was included to allow Matthew to simply skip over this tangled period without being diverted from his task by mentioning the actual names.\n\nSome manuscripts have additional reading in this verse — (\"Joakim, Joakim begot\") — M U Θ Σ \"f\" 33 258 478 661 954 1216 1230 1354 1604 Lectionary 54 syr geo.\n"}
{"id": "15050296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15050296", "title": "Meir Max Bineth", "text": "Meir Max Bineth\n\nMeir Max Bineth (Max Bennett) (27 June 1917 – 21 December 1954) was a lieutenant colonel in the Israeli Intelligence.\n\nBineth was born in Hungary, the grandson of the scholar Jacob Obermeyer. He grew up in Köln, Germany, from 1919 until 1935, when he and his parents left Nazi Germany and emigrated to Palestine.\n\nMeir's last duty and mission was as an Israeli intelligence spy (Secret Fighter) in Egypt, from 1952 to the end of 1954. He was sent there undercover as a German businessman, representing various German firms – primarily \"von Laufenberg\", a firm manufacturing equipment for the disabled and crippled. He was the first Israeli intelligence agent sent to an enemy country under a German identity, and was likely partly selected due to his early years in Germany.\n\nMeir's mission in Egypt was to gather information for Israeli Intelligence about the strength of the Egyptian army, the power of the military industry, Egyptian strategy and intentions toward Israel, the activities of significant anti-Israeli bodies, propaganda etc.\n\nMany doors of Egypt's top military echelon opened before him; he became acquainted with General Muhammad Naguib, then President of Egypt. He also built relations with German military and intelligence personnel and ranking ex-Nazi \"advisors\" who had found refuge in Egypt after the Second World War. Some of them were scientists who were helping Egypt develop missiles that could potentially threaten Israel.\n\nWhile working in Egypt, Meir was nominated as a consultant engineer at the \"Anglo Egyptian Motors Company\" (the German branch of the Ford Motor Company in Egypt), and suggested several projects to help improve Egypt's economy, believing that a crucial reason that generates wars between nations and communities is the lack of economic and social equilibrium; among other things he wrote in his prison cell for his defense was the line \"I think that the principal cause of wars is the age-old fear existing between man and communities that there may not be enough bread for all.\"\n\nMeir's cover and conduct were perfect—he had German citizenship, grew up with German culture, literature and music, and German was his mother tongue. During the last seven months of his secret mission in Egypt, his wife Jane (South African in origin) and daughter joined him.\n\nBineth was caught and arrested after the failure of false flag Operation Susannah, an incident later known as the Lavon Affair. Meir had been ordered by a senior officer in Israel to deliver money for the groups' needs and had met Marcelle Ninio a few times. Ninio was the last to be caught; under torture she gave a description of Meir's car, which led to his capture.\n\nAfter five months of interrogation and torture, on the day before his trial, Meir committed suicide in his prison cell (his wife and child were in Europe). He realized that there was no way out for him and did not want to give the Egyptians the pleasure of hanging him in public, which was the fate awaiting him after conviction.\n\nHis body was re-interred in the Mount Herzl military cemetery in Jerusalem, in 1959.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "469948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=469948", "title": "Muslims (ethnicity)", "text": "Muslims (ethnicity)\n\nMuslims (Serbo-Croatian, Macedonian, and Slovene: \"Muslimani\", Муслимани) was a term used in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as an official designation of ethnicity for Slavic Muslims, thus clumping together a number of in actuality completely distinct ethnicities, among them most numerous being the Bosniaks of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sandžak, along with smaller groups of different ethnicity, such as Gorani in Kosovo and Macedonian Muslims (\"Torbeši\"), but also in numerous cases even non-Slavic, such as Muslim Turks, Muslim Albanians and Muslim Bulgarians, whenever people perceived and expressed their religious identity superior to their ethnic background. Notably, \"Muslims\" were one of the constitutive nations of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. \nMuslims of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sandžak mostly adopted the \"Bosniak\" ethnic designation in connection to their national awakening on the eve of the breakup of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s and they are today constitutionally recognized as such in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Approximately 100,000 people across the former Yugoslavia still consider themselves to be Muslims in an ethnic sense.\n\nUp until the 19th century, the word Bosniak (\"Bošnjak\") came to refer to all inhabitants of Bosnia regardless of religious affiliation; terms such as \"Boşnak milleti\", \"Boşnak kavmi\", and \"Boşnak taifesi\" (all meaning, roughly, \"the Bosnian people\"), were used in the Ottoman Empire to describe Bosnians in an ethnic or \"tribal\" sense. After the Austro-Hungarian occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878, the Austrian administration officially endorsed \"Bošnjaštvo\" ('Bosniakhood') as the basis of a multi-confessional Bosnian nation. The policy aspired to isolate Bosnia and Herzegovina from its irredentist neighbors (Orthodox Serbia, Catholic Croatia, and the Muslims of the Ottoman Empire) and to negate the concept of Croatian and Serbian nationhood which had already begun to take ground among Bosnia and Herzegovina's Catholic and Orthodox communities, respectively. Nevertheless, in part due to the dominant standing held in the previous centuries by the native Muslim population in Ottoman Bosnia, a sense of Bosnian nationhood was cherished mainly by Muslim Bosnians, while fiercely opposed by nationalists from Serbia and Croatia who were instead opting to claim the Bosnian Muslim population as their own, a move that was rejected by most of them. After World War I, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later \"Kingdom of Yugoslavia\") was formed and it recognized only those three nationalities in its constitution.\n\nAfter World War II, in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Bosnian Muslims continued to be treated as a religious group instead of an ethnic one.\nNevertheless, in a debate that went on during the 1960s, many Bosniak communist intellectuals argued that the Muslims of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in fact a distinct native Slavic people that should be recognized as a nation. In 1964, the Fourth Congress of the Bosnian branch of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia assured their Bosniaks membership the Bosniaks' right to self-determination will be fulfilled, thus prompting the recognition of Bosnian Muslims as a distinct nation at a meeting of the Bosnian Central Committee in 1968, however not under the Bosniak or Bosnian name, as opted by the Bosnian Muslim communist leadership. \nAs a compromise, the Constitution of Yugoslavia was amended to list \"Muslims\" in a national sense; recognizing a constitutive nation, but not the Bosniak name. The use of \"Muslim\" as an ethnic denomination was criticized early on, especially on account of motives and reasoning, as well as disregard of this aspect of Bosnian nationhood.\n\nSometimes other terms, such as \"Muslim with capital M\" were used, that is, \"musliman\" was a practicing Muslim while \"Musliman\" was a member of this nation (Serbo-Croatian uses capital letters for names of peoples but small for names of adherents).\n\nAfter the dissolution of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s, the majority of these people, around two million, mostly located in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region of Sandžak, declare as ethnic Bosniaks (\"Bošnjaci\", sing. \"Bošnjak\"). On the other hand, some still use the old name \"Muslimani\" (Muslims), mostly outside Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nThe election law of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, recognizes the results from 1991 population census as results referring to Bosniaks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57711854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57711854", "title": "Mózes Csoma", "text": "Mózes Csoma\n\nMózes Csoma (in Korean: 초머 모세, in Hungarian with family name – first name order: \"Csoma Mózes\"; May 11, 1978 –) is a Hungarian Koreanist scholar, researcher of Korean history and political affairs of the Korean Peninsula, associate professor with a habitation degree and a senior research fellow. From 2008, he was the professor at Eötvös Loránd University (ELTE) , in Budapest, responsible for establishing and managing the first ever Korean Department in Hungary. From February 2018, he serves as a senior research fellow at the National University of Public Service (NKE) in Budapest. Beginning with September 2018, he serves as the ambassador of Hungary to the Republic of Korea.\n\nMózes Csoma studied at Móricz Zsigmond High School in Budapest. In 1996, he was one of the winners of the National Secondary School Academic Competition (OKTV); therefore, he was granted the opportunity to start his studies at ELTE University without taking an entrance exam. Between 1996 and 2002, he studied history and political studies at ELTE, and attended Korean studies courses at the College for Foreign Trade (now Budapest Business School). In 2001, he won the second prize of the Országos Tudományos Diákköri Konferencia (OTDK) , national scholarly competition, for university students with his thesis written about the political circumstances on the Korean Peninsula. He studied Korean language at Yonsei University in Seoul, receiving the fellowship of the Korea Foundation in 2000 and 2004-2005. He received his Ph.D. in 2007 at Zrínyi Miklós National Defense University (now known as NKE) University in Budapest. His doctoral dissertation was written about the internal political affairs of the Korean Peninsula. He conducted field researches in South Korea in 2009, 2014 and 2016.\n\nFrom 2006, he started holding lectures at Corvinus University in Budapest. The title of his history lecture was ’Korea: One nation, two states’. From 2007, he worked at ELTE University, and in 2008 he was nominated to the position of assistant professor. He was responsible for establishing and managing the country’s first ever Korean Department. He received his habilitation degree in 2010, and was nominated to the position of associate professor in 2013. He prepared and planned the Korean Studies BA program in 2008, and after receiving its accreditation, he devised the Koreanology MA program and received its accreditation in 2012. He also planned the Koreanology Ph.D. program in 2017. From February 2018, he serves as a senior research fellow at the NKE in Budapest.\nThe field of his research is Korean history, the differences between the South Korean and North Korean point of view on the common history, and the history of the Hungarian-Korean relations. He frequently gave lectures at international conferences, and published several books about his researches. He is often invited to Hungarian television and radio programs to comment on the developments in the Korean Peninsula.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45498419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45498419", "title": "New Qing History", "text": "New Qing History\n\nThe New Qing History is a school of thought that gained prominence in the United States in the mid-1990s by offering a wide-ranging revision of history of the Manchu Qing dynasty. Earlier historians had emphasized the power of Han Chinese to “sinicize” their conquerors, that is, to assimilate and make them Chinese in their thought and institutions. In the 1980s and early 1990s, American scholars began to learn Manchu and took advantage of newly opened Chinese- and Manchu-language archives. This research found that the Manchu rulers were savvy in manipulating their subjects and from the 1630s through at least the 18th century, emperors developed a sense of Manchu identity and used Central Asian models of rule as much as they did Confucian ones. According to some scholars, at the height of their power, the Qing regarded \"China\" as only a part, although a very important part, of a much wider empire that extended into the Inner Asian territories of Mongolia, Tibet, the Northeast (today sometimes called Manchuria) and Xinjiang, or Chinese (Eastern) Turkestan.\n\nSome scholars criticize the approach for exaggerating the Manchu character of the dynasty, and some in China accuse the American historians in the group of imposing American concerns with race and identity or even of imperialist misunderstanding to weaken China. Still others in China agree that this scholarship has opened new vistas for the study of Qing history.\n\nThe use of \"New Qing History\" as an approach is to be distinguished from the \"New Qing History\", a multi-volume history of the Qing dynasty that was authorized by the Chinese State Council in 2003.\n\nProminent scholars who have been associated with the New Qing History, including Evelyn Rawski, Mark Elliott, Pamela Kyle Crossley, Laura Hostetler, Philippe Forêt, and others, despite differing among themselves on important points, represent an \"Inner Asian\" and \"Eurasian\" turn, which conceived the Manchu-centered Qing as fundamentally different from most earlier dynasties but as similar to the Ottoman, Mogul, and Romanov Empires across the Eurasian landmass. They argued that the Qing saw itself as a universal empire, a multi-national polity, which with China as only the most central and economically important component. They date the founding of the empire from 1636, when the dynasty was proclaimed, rather than from 1644, when the Qing took control of Beijing. The historians argued that \"Manchu\" identity was deliberately created only after the takeover of China and that the new racial identity was important but \"fungible,\" easily exchanged for others. The first rulers of the dynasty played the Confucian role of Son of Heaven but at the same time, often behind the backs of their Han Chinese ministers, adopted other roles to rule other ethnic groups.\n\nThe military expansion of frontiers, which Han Chinese ministers often opposed, as it drained resources from China proper, showed that the Qing empire was not only a victim of imperialism but also practiced imperialism itself. Some of the historians followed Evelyn Rawski calling the Qing \"Early Modern,\" rather than \"late imperial,\" on the grounds that the Manchus created a centralized empire that the Ming could not have created.\n\nThe origins of the New Qing History lie in Inner Asian Studies. A Harvard scholar, Joseph Fletcher, studied the languages and culture of Central Asia. He was among those to discredit the idea that nearly all Manchu documents were translations from Chinese and that they would add little to the record. He wrote in 1981, \"Qing scholars who want to do first-class work in the archives must, from now on, learn Manchu and routinely compare the Manchu and Chinese sources for their topics of research.\" Beatrice Bartlett, a Yale historian who had studied Manchu with Fletcher, reported in an article, 'Books of Revelations', that the archives in Taiwan and Beijing revealed many secrets, which required knowledge of Manchu.\n\nThe Grand Council of the Yongzheng emperor operated only in Manchu until the 1730s, and many other important edicts and memorials did not have Chinese translations. Official use of the language, she argued, did not decline during the 19th century. She concluded that the archives of Manchu materials were more likely to be complete, as they were less likely to have been raided, weeded or lost.\n\nThe New Qing History took on distinct form in the mid-1990s. In 1993, Crossley and Rawski summarized the arguments for using Manchu-language materials, materials, which they and others had explored in the newly opened archives in Beijing and were beginning to use in their publications. Evelyn Rawski's presidential address, \"Re-envisioning the Qing: The Significance of the Qing Period in Chinese History,\" at the annual meeting of the Association for Asian Studies in 1996, particularly criticized the question of the \"sinicization\" of the Qing that had been raised by Ping-ti Ho in his 1967 article \"The Significance of the Ch'ing Period in Chinese History.\" Rawski's thought was based on a Manchu-centric concept of history and indicated that the reason the Qing rulers could successfully govern China for nearly 300 years was not the result of sinicization, adopting the characteristics of Han Chinese rule and culture, but by their focus on retaining the characteristics of Manchu culture. They used such characteristics to strengthen relations with other nationalities to build a multiracial empire that included Manchu, Han, Mongol, Tibetan, Uyghur and other nationalities. For better governing his multiethnic empire, for instance, the Kangxi emperor located his summer residence in the Chengde Mountain Resort, north of the Great Wall. That became the historical core of city of Chengde, which the Qianlong emperor enlarged considerably, including a replica of the Potala Palace in Lhasa.\n\nIn response, Ping-ti Ho published \"In Defense of Sinicization: A Rebuttal of Evelyn Rawski's 'Re-envisioning the Qing'\". He argued that the pattern of Chinese history was for a conquest dynasty to adopt Chinese ways of rule and culture and attacked Rawski for Manchu-centrism.\n\nThe school that is now known as the \"New Qing History\" developed after the debate. In 2011, historian Huang Pei published a monograph that developed the objections stated by Ho Ping-ti. \n\nThere are differences among the scholars in the loose group. For example, Rawski's \"Re-envisioning the Qing\" and Elliott’s \"The Manchu Way\" regard the Qing as a Manchu empire, with China being only one part. Nevertheless, Pamela Kyle Crossley sees the empire not as a Manchu empire but as a \"simultaneous\" system in which the rulership is not subordinate to the Chinese or any other single culture. She criticized the \"Manchu-centered\" school for romanticism and a reliance upon disproved theories about \"Altaic\" language and history, but she seems to include herself in the Qing empire school, which she calls \"Qing Studies.\"\n\nIn 2015, historian Richard J. Smith reported that an interpretive \"middle ground\" had emerged between the views of Rawski and Crossley, on one hand, and Ho and Huang, on the other. Smith himself had come to the conclusion that \"the Qing empire\" and \"China\" were not the same thing and that the Qing had to be placed in not only a Manchu context but one that included Inner Asia in general and that saw China in a global field. The less \"sinocentric\" view, Smith continued, which placed less emphasis on \"sinicization,\" had won over most Western scholars on China, in spite of debates over \"matters of degree.\"\n\nThe arguments put forward in the New Qing History inspired debate on a number of specific points.\n\nThe scholar Zhao Gang responded against the revisionist historians by noting that they claimed that the Qing used only \"China\" (中國) to encompass only Han people (漢人) and \"China proper\" and pointed out that in fact that China proper and Han people were not synonymous with \"China\" in the Qing view according to Mark Elliott's own work. The Han dynasty used Zhongguo (中國) to refer only to Han areas, but the Qing dynasty reinvented the definition of Zhongguo (中國) to refer to non-Han areas as well. Zhao Gang cited Qing documents with Qing being used for the Manchu term Dulimbai Gurun (a direct translation of \"中國\", Zhongguo; \"Middle Kingdom\") in Manchu texts and Zhongguo in Chinese texts to refer to the entire Qing including Manchuria, Xinjiang, Mongolia, and Tibet as \"China\", in official documents, edicts, treaties, in texts like the Treaty of Nerchinsk, Convention of Kyakhta (1768), a 1755 pronouncement by the Qianlong Emperor, and a Manchu language memorial on the conquest of Dzungaria, and Qianlong's arguments for the annexation of Xinjiang, and in Qianlong's sinicization policies in parts of Xinjiang.\n\nMark Elliott wrote that it was under the Qing that \"China\" transformed into a definition of referring to lands where the \"state claimed sovereignty,\" rather than only the Central Plains area and its people by the end of the 18th century.\n\nElena Barabantseva has also noted that the Manchu referred to all subjects of the Qing empire regardless of ethnicity as \"Chinese\" (中國之人), and they used the term Zhongguo (中國) as a synonym for the entire Qing empire but used \"Hanren\" (漢人) to refer only to the core area of the empire, with the entire empire viewed as multiethnic.\n\nJoseph W. Esherick observes that while the Qing Emperors governed frontier non-Han areas in a different, separate system under the Lifan Yuan and kept them separate from Han areas and administration, it was the Manchu Qing Emperors who expanded the definition of Zhongguo (中國) and made it \"flexible\" by using that term to refer to the entire empire.\n\nScholars have disagreed on whether or how much the Manchu rulers used new forms of imperial ritual to display new forms of empire or continued rituals from the Ming to show that they saw themselves as heirs of a Han Chinese empire. Roger Des Forges' review of David M. Robinson's \"Martial Spectacles of the Ming Court\" criticized scholars of conquest dynasties and New Qing History and disagreed with the idea that the \"Royal hunt\" was a differing factor between Han Chinese and conquest dynasties. He noted that the martial themed Ming dynasty Grand Review was copied by the Qing and disagreed with those who sought to present it as a Qing feature. He praised Robinson in differing from scholars who selected certain Ming and Qing emperors to contrast their difference and for not conflating Han with \"Chinese\" and not translating the term \"Zhongguo\".\n\nThe New Qing History, according to Tristan G. Brown, writing in 2011, did not explore the example of Islam and Muslims to test their argument that the early Qing emperors aspired to be universal monarchs. Brown finds that an inscription by the Qianlong emperor showed that he wanted to incorporate both Xinjiang and Islam into his empire and that this inscription, along with the \"inventive structural duality of Chinese-Islamic architecture with Central Asian Turkish-Islamic architectural forms,\" makes the \"most compelling case\" that New Qing History is also applicable to Chinese Islam.\n\nIn the journal \"Chinese Social Sciences Today\", an official publication of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Li Zhiting, a scholar working on the National Qing Dynasty Compilation Committee, charged that \"'New Qing History' is academically absurd, and politically does damage to the unity of China...\" He sought to \"expose its mask of pseudo-academic scholarship, eliminating the deleterious effect it has had on scholarship in China.\" Li went on to charge that the \"whole range of views [New Qing History scholars] express are cliches and stereotypes, little more than dusted off versions in a scholarly tone of the Western imperialism and Japanese imperialism of the 19th century.\" American scholars such as Evelyn Rawski, Pamela Crossley, Mark Elliott, and James Millward, Li continued, \"view the history of China from an imperialist standpoint, with imperialist points of view and imperialist eyes, regarding 'traditional' China as an 'empire,' regarding the Qing dynasty as 'Qing dynasty imperialism.'\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36683172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36683172", "title": "Nikoghos Tahmizian", "text": "Nikoghos Tahmizian\n\nNikoghos Tahmizian (1926–2011, ; also spelled: Nikogos Tahmizyan) was an Armenian musicologist, theorist and historian. His professional accomplishments were to decipher neumes (\"khaz\") of Armenian church music, analyze the musical theory of old Armenia and research the life and works of Armenian composers from medieval times to modern era.\n\nTahmizian's discoveries in the area of the medieval Armenian notational system open a door to understanding and interpreting the liturgical chants (Шаракан) of the period. His book \"Modern Neumology\" (2003) summarizes his forty years of research in the field. Several dozen neumatic symbols have now been revealed, defined, categorized and interpreted as a result of his work.\n\nHis research into the musical heritage of Armenia revealed and explained the most crucial periods in the history of Armenian music and its notorious representatives. He brought to life the musical contributions of Mesrop Mashtots(arm. Մեսրոպ Մաշտոց) (5th Century A.D.), Sahak Partev (Isaac of Armenia, 4th/5th Century A.D.), Movses Khorenatsi (Moses of Chorene, 5th Century A.D.), Grigor Narekatsi (Gregory of Narek, (Arm: Գրիգոր Նարեկացի), 10th Century A.D.), Nerses Shnorhali (Nerses IV the Gracious, Arm: Սուրբ Ներսէս Դ. Կլայեցի (Շնորհալի), Rus: Шнорали Нерсес 12th Century A.D.), Sayat-Nova (arm. Սայաթ Նովա rus. Саят-Нова) (18th Century), Makar Yekmalian (arm: Մակար Եկմալյան) (19th Century), Tigran Tchoukhajian (Dikran Tchouhadjian) (19th Century), Komitas Vardapet (early 20th Century) and others. His work placed an overall historical perspective of the musical development in Armenia from 5th to 20th Centuries. He categorized the period from ancient times to the 12th century as an ascending era, and the timeframe from 13th to 18th centuries as a period of creative decline.\n\nHe also conducted extensive research into the theory of Armenian music from the pagan era to the church music of the 8th Century A.D. In his defining book entitled 'Theory of Music in Ancient Armenia' (published in Armenia, 1977, in Russian) he interpreted and classified the modal system used during this period. He also analyzed the metric and rhythmic constructs and their formational significance. He explained the uniqueness of the Armenian oktoechos and shed light upon the conceptual and aesthetical issues of the medieval music of Armenia. Moreover, he brought into focus the specific characteristics of the Armenian modes as compared and contrasted with Persian, Arabic, Turkish, as well as Greek, Russian and Caucasian modal systems.\n\nThroughout his career, Tahmizian published over a dozen books and around two hundred articles and essays in Armenian, Russian, English, French and Polish. He has also delivered over 60 academic lectures in universities and conservatories throughout the former Soviet Union, as well as London (1978), Rome (1981), Tokyo (1985), Paris (1989), San Francisco (1990) and New York City (1993). He contributed to the Russian Music Encyclopedia (published from 1973 to 1982 in Moscow, six volumes, in Russian), and Armenian Encyclopedia (published from 1974 to 1987 in Yerevan, thirteen volumes, in Armenian).\n\nBorn in Athens, Greece on May 9, 1926. Received elementary education at the local Armenian school, followed by high school at the Melkonian Educational Institute in Cyprus on a merit based scholarship. After graduation in 1945, being recognized as a promising young musical scholar, he received a fully funded fellowship for a seven-year academic course at the Music Conservatory of Brussels, Belgium.\n\nThe \"Repatriation Movement\", however, initiated by the government of post-war Armenia, changed his plans. Along with over hundred thousand Armenians (scattered around the globe as a direct result of the 1915 Genocide) he moved to Soviet Armenia in 1946. In September of that year, he was admitted and started his education at the Romanos Melikian Musical College of Yerevan - graduating in 1950. From 1950 to 1956 he attended the Yerevan Komitas State Conservatory, Musicology Department. He completed his graduate studies with a thesis on 13th century Armenian monk Hovhannes Yerznkatzi's views on music theory. From 1947 to 1956 Tahmizian worked at the Yerevan Opera House occupying the chair of third French Horn in the orchestra.\n\nFrom 1956 to 1960 he completed his post-graduate studies at St. Petersburg State Conservatory under the mentorship of renowned music scholar Christopher Kushnarev. It was here that he met his lifetime soul mate Svetalan Nikitina (later Svetlana Tahmizian) - a talented musician studying with the famous pianist and organist Professor Braudo (Браудо, Исайя Александрович). From 1960 to 1990 he was a senior researcher at Mashtots Institute of Ancient Manuscripts (Matenadaran) in Yerevan, Armenia. During the same period he actively collaborated with the Composers' Union of Armenia, Yerevan Komitas State Conservatory and the Armenian National Academy of Sciences. Tahmizian upheld his dissertation for doctoral candidacy in 1962 on the history of Armenian music from 5th to 8th centuries A.D. In 1980 he obtained an honorary doctorate degree presenting the publication of his monumental work \"Theory of Music in Ancient Armenia.\"\n\nIn 1984 he was awarded an honorary title for his accomplishments in musical arts by the government of the Republic of Armenia. In 1987 he was granted professorship of musical sciences by the music history department of the Yerevan Komitas State Conservatory.\n\nFrom 1990 to 2011 he resided in Pasadena, California. He was honored to become a US citizen in 1995. During this time he continued his research and involvement in Armenian music history. He published five books and a dozen articles. He also lectured in various US cities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20485416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20485416", "title": "Of Time, Tombs and Treasures", "text": "Of Time, Tombs and Treasures\n\nOf Time, Tombs and Treasures is a 1977 American short documentary film about the discovery the Tomb of the Tutankamun. Produced by James R. Messenger, the film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Short. \n"}
{"id": "41494257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41494257", "title": "One-Mensch-Theater", "text": "One-Mensch-Theater\n\nEin-Mensch-Theater ( \"human being\") is a German expression for a traveling theater, within the owner is writer, director, stage designer, performer and sometimes even his own tour manager in one person.\n\nThe term was coined by Natias Neutert after his performance (\"The poet stumbles into the open\") at Schauspielhaus Bochum during a panel discussion with Peter Zadek\n\nHis intention was going to replace the worn and partial label \"one-man show\" by a label under which both males and females could find equally.\n\nDario Fo, Robert Kreis, Johnny Melville, Natias Neutert and Franca Rame became famous exponents as this type of theater in Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "4563276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4563276", "title": "Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology", "text": "Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology\n\nThe Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology is a museum affiliated with Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Founded in 1866, the Peabody Museum is one of the oldest and largest museums focusing on anthropological material, with particular focus on the ethnography and archaeology of the Americas. The museum is caretaker to over 1.2 million objects, some 900 linear feet of documents, 2,000 maps and site plans, and approximately 500,000 photographs. The museum is located at Divinity Avenue on the Harvard University campus. The museum is one of the four Harvard Museums of Science & Culture open to the public.\n\nThe museum was established as a gift from George Peabody, a native of South Danvers (now Peabody), a wealthy American financier and philanthropist on October 8, 1866. Peabody committed $150,000 to be used, according to the terms of the trust, to establish the position of Peabody Professor-Curator, to purchase artifacts, and to construct a building to house its collections. Peabody directed his trustees to organize the construction of \"a suitable fireproof museum building, upon land to be given for that purpose, free of cost or rental, by the President and Fellows of Harvard College.\" The museum opened its first exhibition consisting of a small number of prehistoric artifacts from the Merrimack Valley in Harvard University's Boylston Hall in 1867. In 1877, the long-awaited museum building was completed and ready for occupancy. The building that houses the Peabody was expanded in 1888 and again in 1913.\n\nPeabody Museum is steward to archaeological, ethnographic, osteological, and archival collections from many countries and covering millions of years of human cultural, social, and biological history, with particular focus on the cultures of North and South America and the Pacific Islands, as well as collections from Africa, Europe, and Asia.\n\n\n\nSource: The Peabody Museum, Current Exhibitions\n\n"}
{"id": "2344414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2344414", "title": "Pierre Broué", "text": "Pierre Broué\n\nPierre Broué (8 May 1926 – 27 July 2005) was a French historian and Trotskyist revolutionary militant whose work covers the history of the Bolshevik Party, the Spanish Revolution and biographies of Leon Trotsky.\n\nBroué was born in Privas, Ardèche, around 1926.\n\nHis father was a civil servant and mother a school teacher: they had \"strong republican views\".\n\nIn 1936, Broué supported a French general strike as well as the Spanish Republic.\n\nBy 1940, with Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia in a non-aggression pact, he helped organize a Communist party cell at the Lycée Henri IV in Paris. The French Communist Party expelled these organizers; they said Broué suffered from Trotskyism. The accusation piqued his interest, and he began reading about Trotsky from the private library of teacher Élie Reynier.\n\nWith the Party, he fought in the French resistance against Nazi occupiers during Second World War.\n\nWhen Joseph Stalin disbanded the Comintern in 1943, Broué became strongly critical of Stalinism, resigning from the FCP as a result. By 1944, he became a Trotskyist, joined the Fourth International, and remained a Trotskyist for the rest of his life.\n\nIn 1952, he followed Pierre Lambert during a split in the movement and continued as a \"Lambertist\" for many years.\n\nHe was active in the Internationalist Communist Party and then the Internationalist Communist Organisation before expelled in 1989.\n\nHe became a secondary school teacher, until 1965 when he became lecturer in history at the University of Grenoble and then professor.\n\nIn 1977, he set up the Trotsky Institute, to publish in French all of Trotsky's writings (so far, 27 volumes). He also founded and edited the \"Cahiers Léon Trotsky\", devoted to the history of Trotskyism.\n\nBetween 2003 and his death, he was a close collaborator and supporter of the International Marxist Tendency.\n\nBroué married three times. His third wife Andrée died in 1989 from cancer.\n\nFormer student Jean-Pierre Juy was a long-time friend. Alan Woods was a late-life friend and admirer.\n\nBroué died in Grenoble, France, in his sleep in the early hours July 27, 2005, age 79. He had prostate cancer. Five children survived him: two sons and three daughters.\n\nHis son Michel Broué is a notable mathematician.\n\nThe basic inspiration for Broué's books was his desire to explain Stalinism.\n\nHis book \"Trotsky\" (1988) counters the work of Isaac Deutscher. He worked for three years at Harvard, to which Trotsky had sold his papers in 1940. Broué and assistants were the first researchers to use them since the archive opened in 1980. Alan Woods has called it \"a very healthy antidote to the superficial and pretentious philistinism of Isaac Deutscher\".\n\nThe recent republication of Trotsky's autobiography, \"My Life\", has a foreword written by Broué.\n\nThe U.S. Library of Congress lists the following books.\n\n\nThe U.S. Library of Congress lists the following books.\n\n\nMarxists' Internet Archives lists the following articles by Broué that appeared in \"Revolutionary History\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2978525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978525", "title": "Pinacotheca", "text": "Pinacotheca\n\nA pinacotheca ( borrowed from , πίναξ \"(painted) board, tablet\" + θήκη \"box, chest\") was a picture gallery in either ancient Greece or ancient Rome. The name is specifically used for the building containing pictures which formed the left wing of the Propylaea on the Acropolis at Athens, Greece. The Pinacotheca was located right by the temple of Athena Nike. Though Pausanias (Bk. I., xxii. 6) speaks of the pictures \"which time had not effaced,\" which seems to point to fresco painting, the fact that there is no trace of preparation for stucco on the walls shows that the paintings were easel pictures (J. G. Frazer, \"Pausanias's Description of Greece\", 1898, ii. 252). The Romans adopted the term for the room in a private house containing pictures, statues, and other works of art.\n\nIn the modern world the word is often used as a name for a public art gallery concentrating on paintings, mostly in Italy (as \"Pinacoteca\"), such as the Pinacoteca Vaticana of the Vatican Museums (which is usually meant when the plain word is used), the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan (more often \"the Brera\" informally), with others in Bologna, Siena, and Turin. In Brazil, there is the Pinacoteca do Estado de São Paulo. In Paris, the Pinacothèque de Paris. In Munich the three main galleries are called the Alte Pinakothek (old masters), Neue Pinakothek (19th century) and Pinakothek der Moderne. At Hallbergmoos, near Munich Airport, there was the Pinakothek Hallbergmoos (20th and 21st century) between 2010 and 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "7357473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7357473", "title": "Richard Garfinkle", "text": "Richard Garfinkle\n\nRichard Garfinkle is an American writer of science fiction.\n\nHe is best known as the author of \"Celestial Matters\", a novel published by Tor Books, which won the Compton Crook Award in 1997.\n\nGarfinkle is a 1992 graduate of the Clarion West Writers' Workshop and was nominated twice for the John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer.\n\nHe has taught at numerous writers' workshops at Windycon, an annual Chicago-area science fiction convention, and at Chicon 2000, the 58th World Science Fiction Convention, held in Chicago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17263671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17263671", "title": "Richard Robert Madden", "text": "Richard Robert Madden\n\nRichard Robert Madden (22 August 1798 – 5 February 1886) was an Irish doctor, writer, abolitionist and historian of the United Irishmen. Madden took an active role in trying to impose anti-slavery rules in Jamaica on behalf of the British government.\n\nMadden was born at Wormwood Gate Dublin on 22 August 1798 to Edward Madden, a silk manufacturer and his wife Elizabeth (born Corey) . His father had married twice and fathered twenty-one children. \n\nMadden attended private schools and was found a medical apprenticeship in Athboy, Co. Meath. He studied medicine in Paris, Italy, and St George's Hospital, London. While in Naples he became acquainted with Lady Blessington and her circle. From 1824 to 1827 he was in the Levant as a journalist, and later published accounts of his travels.\n\nIn 1828 Madden married Harriet Elmslie, daughter of John Elmslie (1739–1822) of Jamaica, a slave-owner. He then for five years practised medicine in Mayfair, London.\n\nMadden became a recruit to the abolitionist cause. The slave trade had been illegal in the British Empire since 1807, but slavery still existed. The slave trade continued, and many not actively involved were complicit with it.\n\nFrom 1833, Madden was employed in the British civil service, first as a justice of the peace in Jamaica, where he was one of six Special Magistrates sent to oversee the eventual liberation of Jamaica's slave population, according to the terms of the Slavery Abolition Act 1833. From 1835 he was Superintendent of the freed Africans in Havana. In 1839 he became the investigating officer into the slave trade on the west coast of Africa, in 1847 the secretary for the Swan River Colony. He returned to Dublin and in 1850 he was named secretary of the Office for Loan Funds in Dublin.\n\nMadden died at his home in Booterstown, just south of Dublin city, in 1886 and is interred in Donnybrook Cemetery.\n\nBesides several travel diaries (Travels in Turkey, Egypt etc. in 1824–27, 1829, and others (1833)), his works include the historically significant book \"The United Irishmen, their lives and times\" (1843, 7 Vols.),\nwhich contains important details on the causes of the Irish Rebellion of 1798.\n\nHis other books include:\n\nHis time in Jamaica is also noticeable for his collection of letters and autobiographical accounts of several Muslim African slaves there at the time. These accounts are dealt with in his two-volume memoir, \"A Twelve Month's Residence in the West Indies\".\n\nHe also wrote poetry for The Nation.\n\nMadden's wife was Harriet Elmslie (died 1888); they had three sons, among them Thomas More Madden. She was also the youngest of 21 children. Born in Marylebone in 1801 and baptised there into the Church of England, she was the child of John Elmslie (1739–1822), a Scot who owned hundreds of slaves on his plantations in Jamaica, and his wife Jane Wallace (1760 – 1801). Both Harriet's parents were of Quaker stock, but while living in Cuba she converted to Roman Catholicism.\n\n"}
{"id": "39346751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39346751", "title": "Rock Art and the Prehistory of Atlantic Europe", "text": "Rock Art and the Prehistory of Atlantic Europe\n\nRock Art and the Prehistory of Atlantic Europe: Signing the Land is an archaeological book authored by the English academic Richard Bradley of the University of Reading. It was first published by Routledge in 1997.\n\nTaking Atlantic Europe as its area of focus, Bradley's book deals with Neolithic and Bronze Age rock art in the British Isles and in Galicia.\n\nBradley's first chapter provides a brief introduction to the topic. Chapter two introduces the prehistory of Atlantic Europe, exploring ideas regarding societal connections between Galicia and various parts of the British Isles where rock art is found. The third chapter goes into greater depth into Atlantic rock art, discussing various scholars' views on the connection between the petroglyphs of different regions.\n\nCaroline Malone of Queen's University, Belfast reviewed Bradley's tome for the \"Antiquity\" journal alongside his later publication, \"The Significance of Monuments\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36019562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36019562", "title": "Saint Thomas Christian music", "text": "Saint Thomas Christian music\n\nSaint Thomas Christian music refers to the musical traditions of the Saint Thomas Christian community of Kerala, India. It is chiefly liturgical and is derived from ancient Syriac Christian music from the Middle East, with remarkably little influence from local Indian styles. Of particular significance is the prevalence of the organum singing style. As a result of the community's isolation and conservatism, these traditions may retain elements of the earliest forms of Early Christian music.\n\nThe Saint Thomas Christians trace their origins to the evangelical activity of Thomas the Apostle in the 1st century. The community grew under the influence of migration from Syrians, members of the Church of the East. The community's modern musical traditions may be derived from this connection. Into the 20th century, Saint Thomas Christian liturgy was performed and sung in the Syriac language, though today this largely has been replaced with the local language, Malayalam. Due to the community's resistance to outside influence and isolation, the music of the Saint Thomas Christians may preserve elements of the earliest forms of Christian music.\n\nScholar Israel G. Ross compares Saint Thomas Christian music to that of the Jews in Kerala. Jewish music influenced the early Christian music ancestral to the Saint Thomas Christian forms, and Jews have lived in similar conditions to the Thomas Christians in Kerala for centuries. As such, Christian and Jewish music and culture in Kerala feature many parallels and similarities. For example, a Saint Thomas Christian blessing given by a dying father to his children is similar to the Jewish Amidah. These similarities may reflect a common origin in the ancient Middle East.\n\nSaint Thomas Christian music derives from archaic Syriac forms, with little discernible influence from Indian classical music or other local traditions. Liturgical music is performed in two modes: \"kadmoyo\" and \"hamisoyo\". These are similar to the Arabic \"maqamat\" and may be derived from an ancient Syriac system that existed in the Middle East in the early centuries of Christianity, and which may be related to the system known as oktoechos. Intonation is similar to the Syriac standard, featuring no augmented second or microtonal alteration characteristic of Indian music.\n\nThe organum singing style is common in Saint Thomas Christian music. It appears in antiphons, responsories, and hymns. Ross notes that this is found among three other disparate and isolated cultures: the nearby Cochin Jews, the Yemenite Jews, and the Samaritans. Organum may be sung in either duplum or triplum. In the former it is sung in the fifth when the boys and men sing together with the cantus firmus in the upper voice, or in the fourth when the groups sing alone. In triplum it is sung in the fourth and octave.\n\nThe Margam Kali is a traditional Saint Thomas Christian dance. The accompanying music is performed by a choir singing in Syriac chant, with a \"sleeyankolu\" (triangle) maintaining rhythm. Another traditional instrument is the violin or \"revekka\".\n\nTraditional chant accentuation derives from the Syriac standard, which was instituted by the scholars known as the Masoretes in the Middle Ages. The form is similar to that codified by the Hebrew grammarians of Tiberias for Jewish cantillation of the Bible. It features dot notation above, below, and to the side of words in the text. The names of the notations are expressive, reflecting the style of Syriac Bible reading and chant in general.\n\nOne important Saint Thomas Christian song is the \"Thoma Parvam\", or \"Song of Thomas\". The song contains a colophon claiming it was first written in 1601 by a certain Maliekel Thoma Ramban, though the manuscripts are of a much later date. The words give an account of Thomas the Apostle's purported evangelical work in India in the 1st century.\n"}
{"id": "4104491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4104491", "title": "Slater Mill Historic Site", "text": "Slater Mill Historic Site\n\nThe Slater Mill is a historic textile mill complex on the banks of the Blackstone River in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, modeled after cotton spinning mills first established in England. It is the first water-powered cotton spinning mill in North America to utilize the Arkwright system of cotton spinning as developed by Richard Arkwright.\n\nSamuel Slater, the mill's founder, apprenticed as a young man in Belper, England with industrialist Jedediah Strutt. Shortly after immigrating to the United States, Slater was hired by Moses Brown of Providence, Rhode Island to produce a working set of machines necessary to spin cotton yarn using water power. Construction of the machines was completed in 1793, as well as a dam, waterway, waterwheel, and mill. Manufacturing was based on Richard Arkwright's cotton spinning system, which included carding, drawing, and spinning machines. Slater initially hired children and families to work in his mill, establishing a pattern that was replicated throughout the Blackstone Valley and known as the \"Rhode Island System\". It was later eclipsed by Francis Cabot Lowell's Waltham System.\n\nSlater Mill was added to the National Register of Historic Places and designated a National Historic Landmark on November 13, 1966, the first property to be listed on the register. In December 2014, the mill was added to the newly formed Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park.\n\nThe original portion of the Slater Mill built in 1793 was six bays long and two stories tall. Several additions were made beginning in 1801, and a second added in 1835. Between 1869 and 1872, a large addition was made to the north end of the mill. Cotton spinning continued until 1895, after which the mill was used for various industrial purposes until 1923. The building had suffered numerous fires in the past, and two fires occurred in 1912 which precipitated awareness of the building and the need for its preservation.\n\nIn 1921, the non-profit Old Slater Mill Association was founded with the purpose of saving the historic Mill. Efforts to restore the mill began in 1923; modern additions to the structure were removed, restoring the mill to its 1835 appearance. In 1955, it opened as a museum. Restoration of the nearby Wilkinson Mill (built 1810–1811) was completed in 1978 as part of the Slater Mill site.\n\nThe Slater Mill site now serves as a museum, educational center, and music venue, which \"celebrates innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit by engaging audiences in relevant cultural, historic, and artistic endeavors\". It includes five acres of land on both sides of the Blackstone River, a dam on the river, two historic mills (the Slater Mill and Wilkinson Mill), and the Sylvanus Brown House (a house built in 1758 but moved to the site in the 1960s).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1475958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1475958", "title": "Tetsuro Watsuji", "text": "Tetsuro Watsuji\n\nWatsuji was born in Himeji, Hyōgo Prefecture to a physician. During his youth he enjoyed poetry and had a passion for Western literature. For a short time he was the coeditor of a literary magazine and was involved in writing poems and plays. His interests in philosophy came to light while he was a student at First Higher School in Tokyo, although his interest in literature would always remain strong throughout his life.\n\nIn his early writings (between 1913 and 1915) he introduced the work of Søren Kierkegaard to Japan, as well as working on Friedrich Nietzsche, but in 1918 he turned against this earlier position, criticizing Western philosophical individualism, and attacking its influence on Japanese thought and life. This led to a study of the roots of Japanese culture, including Japanese Buddhist art, and notably the work of the medieval Zen Buddhist Dōgen. Watsuji was also interested in the famous Japanese writer Natsume Sōseki, whose books were influential during Watsuji's early years.\n\nIn the early 1920s Watsuji taught at Toyo, Hosei and Keio universities, and at Tsuda Eigaku-juku.\n\nThe issues of hermeneutics attracted his attention.\n\nIn 1925 Watsuji became professor of ethics at Kyoto University, joining the other leading philosophers of the time, Nishida Kitaro and Tanabe Hajime. He then moved to the Tokyo Imperial University in 1934 and held the chair in ethics until 1949.\n\nDuring World War II his theories (which claimed the superiority of Japanese approaches to and understanding of human nature and ethics, and argued for the negation of self) provided support for Japanese nationalism, a fact which, after the war, he said that he regretted.\n\nWatsuji died at the age of seventy-one.\n\nWatsuji's three main works were his two-volume 1954 \"History of Japanese Ethical Thought\", his three-volume \"Rinrigaku\" (\"Ethics\"), first published in 1937, 1942, and 1949, and his 1935 \"Fūdo\". The last of these develops his most distinctive thought. In it, Watsuji argues for an essential relationship between climate and other environmental factors and the nature of human cultures, and he distinguished three types of culture: pastoral, desert, and monsoon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2553487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2553487", "title": "The Thirteenth Tribe", "text": "The Thirteenth Tribe\n\nThe Thirteenth Tribe is a 1976 book by Arthur Koestler, in which the author advances the thesis that Ashkenazi Jews are not descended from the historical Israelites of antiquity, but from Khazars, a Turkic people. Koestler hypothesized that the Khazars (who converted to Judaism in the 8th century) migrated westwards into Eastern Europe in the 12th and 13th centuries when the Khazar Empire was collapsing.\n\nKoestler used previous works by Douglas Morton Dunlop, Raphael Patai and Abraham Poliak as sources. His stated intent was to make antisemitism disappear by disproving its racial basis.\n\nIn the book, Koestler advances the thesis that Ashkenazi Jews are not descended from the historical Israelites of antiquity, but from Khazars, a Turkic people originating in and populating an empire north of and between the Black Sea and Caspian Sea. Koestler's hypothesis is that the Khazars – who converted to Judaism in the 8th century – migrated westwards into current Eastern Europe (primarily Ukraine, Poland, Belarus, Lithuania, Hungary and Germany) in the 12th and 13th centuries when the Khazar Empire was collapsing.\n\nAt the end of the book's last chapter, Koestler summarizes its content and his intentions as follows: \"In Part One of this book I have attempted to trace the history of the Khazar Empire based on the scant existing sources. In Part Two, Chapters V-VII, I have compiled the historical evidence which indicates that the bulk of Eastern Jewry — and hence of world Jewry — is of Khazar-Turkish, rather than Semitic, origin. In the last chapter I have tried to show that the evidence from anthropology concurs with history in refuting the popular belief in a Jewish race descended from the biblical tribe.\"\n\nMattias Gardell writes that Koestler's thesis is \"partly based on amateur anthropology\", and its scientific arguments come from \"The Myth of a Jewish Race\" (1975) by Raphael Patai and his daughter Jennifer. It also relies on the work of earlier historians, particularly Russian-Israeli historian Abraham Poliak's Hebrew book \"Khazaria: Toledot mamlakhah yehudit\" (1951), and the \"History of the Jewish Khazars\" (1954) by Douglas Morton Dunlop, the author whom Koestler himself describes as a main source. Neil McInnes writes that Dunlop was, however, \"much more tentative\" in his conclusions, as were other historians of Khazars, including Peter Golden and Moses Shulvass. Golden himself described the book as \"controversial\", stating it contained \"sweeping claims of Khazar legacy and influence\".\n\nKoestler biographer Michael Scammell writes that Koestler told French biologist Pierre Debray-Ritzen he \"was convinced that if he could prove that the bulk of Eastern European Jews (the ancestors of today's Ashkenazim) were descended from the Khazars, the racial basis for anti-Semitism would be removed and anti-Semitism itself could disappear\". According to George Urban, Koestler's desire to connect Ashkenazi Jews with Khazars was \"based on a tacit belief that the intellectual brilliance of and international influence of Hungarians and Jews, especially Hungarian Jews or Jewish-Hungarians, was due to some unexplained but clearly ancient affinity between the two peoples\".\n\nIn \"The Invention of the Jewish People\", Shlomo Sand, historian of cinema, French intellectual history, and nationalism at Tel Aviv University, writes \"while the Khazars scared off the Israeli historians, not one of whom has published a single paper on the subject, Koestler's \"Thirteenth Tribe\" annoyed and provoked angry responses. Hebrew readers had no access to the book itself for many years, learning about it only through the venomous denunciations\". Writing in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" editor Evan Goldstein states \"Sand suggests that those who attacked Koestler's book did so not because it lacked merit, but because the critics were cowards and ideologues. 'No one wants to go looking under stones when venomous scorpions might be lurking beneath them, waiting to attack the self-image of the existing ethnos and its territorial ambitions.'\"\n\nIn the Arab world the theory espoused in Koestler's book was adopted by persons who argued that if Ashkenazi Jews are primarily Khazar and not Semitic in origin, they would have no historical claim to Israel, nor would they be the subject of the Biblical promise of Canaan to the Israelites, thus undermining the theological basis of both Jewish religious Zionists and Christian Zionists. The Saudi Arabian delegate to the United Nations argued that Koestler's theory \"negated Israel's right to exist\". Koestler did not see alleged Khazar ancestry as diminishing the claim of Jews to Israel, which he felt was based on the United Nations mandate and not on Biblical covenants or genetic inheritance. In his view, \"[t]he problem of the Khazar infusion a thousand years ago... is irrelevant to modern Israel.\"\n\nKoestler's book was praised by the neo-Nazi magazine \"The Thunderbolt\" as \"the political bombshell of the century\", and it was enthusiastically supported by followers of the Christian Identity movement. According to Jeffery Kaplan, \"The Thirteenth Tribe\" was \"Identity's primary source for the Khazar theory\"; they felt Koestler's book confirmed their own beliefs regarding Jews, and sold it \"through their mail order services\". Goldstein writes that \"Koestler and the Khazar theory he advanced lives on in the fever swamps of the white nationalist movement\". Michael Barkun writes that Koestler was apparently \"either unaware of or oblivious to the use anti-Semites had made of the Khazar theory since its introduction at the turn of the century.\"\n\nAfter it was first published, Fitzroy Maclean in \"The New York Times Book Review\" called \"The Thirteenth Tribe\" excellent, writing \"Mr. Koestler's book is as readable as it is thought-provoking. Nothing could be more stimulating than the skill, elegance and erudition with which he marshals his facts and develops his theories.\" Reviewing the work in the \"Washington Report on Middle East Affairs\" in 1991, journalist and author Grace Halsell described it as a \"carefully researched book\" that \"refutes the idea of a Jewish 'race'.\"\n\nDespite some positive reviews in the press, James A. Beverley writes \"When \"The Thirteenth Tribe\" was released, the academic critique of its research was prompt, public, and generally negative\", and Evan Goldstein states that it was \"savaged by critics\". An August 1976 review in \"Time\" magazine described Koestler's theory as \"all too facile, despite the obvious effort and time the author spent on his study\", and stated that \"Koestler offers a blizzard of information but not enough hard facts to support his thesis\". A November 1976 review in \"National Review\" stated that the work had \"neither the value of a well-executed honest piece of scholarship nor the emotional appeal of a polemic – only the earmarks of a poorly researched and hastily written book\". Koestler's analysis was described as a mixture of flawed etymologies and misinterpreted primary sources by Chimen Abramsky in 1976 and Hyam Maccoby in 1977.\n\nBarkun describes the book as an \"eccentric work\", and writes that Koestler was \"unequipped with the specialist background the subject might be thought to require\", but that he \"nevertheless made an amateur's serious attempt to investigate and support the theory.\" Professor of Polish-Jewish history Gershon D. Hundert wrote in 2006 \"There is no evidence to support the theory that the ancestors of Polish Jewry were Jews who came from the Crimean Jewish kingdom of Khazaria\", describing Koestler as the \"best-known advocate\" of the theory. In 2009, Jeffrey Goldberg wrote that the book was \"a combination of discredited and forgotten [ideas]\".\n\nKoestler biographers have also been critical of the work. In \"Arthur Koestler: The Homeless Mind\" (1998), David Cesarani states it makes \"selective use of facts for a grossly polemical end\" and is \"risible as scholarship\". In \"Koestler: The Literary and Political Odyssey of a Twentieth-Century Skeptic\" (2009), Michael Scammell writes that Koestler's theory \"was almost entirely hypothetical and based on the slenderest of circumstantial evidence\", and takes the book as evidence that Koestler's brain \"was starting to fail him\".\n\nA 2005 study by Nebel \"et al.\", based on Y chromosome polymorphic markers, showed that Ashkenazi Jews are more closely related to other Jewish and Middle Eastern groups than to the populations among whom they lived in Europe. However, 11.5% of male Ashkenazim were found to belong to Haplogroup R1a, the dominant Y chromosome haplogroup in Eastern Europeans, suggesting possible gene flow. Referencing \"The Thirteenth Tribe\", the study's authors note that \"Some authors argue that after the fall of their kingdom in the second half of the 10th century CE, the Khazar converts were absorbed by the emerging Ashkenazi Jewish community in Eastern Europe.\" They conclude: \"However, if the R-M17 chromosomes in Ashkenazi Jews do indeed represent the vestiges of the mysterious Khazars then, according to our data, this contribution was limited to either a single founder or a few closely related men, and does not exceed ~ 12% of the present-day Ashkenazim\".\n\nWriting in \"Science\", Michael Balter states Koestler's thesis \"clash[es] with several recent studies suggesting that Jewishness, including the Ashkenazi version, has deep genetic roots.\" He refers to a 2010 study by geneticist Harry Ostrer which found that Ashkenazi Jews \"clustered more closely with Middle Eastern and Sephardic Jews, a finding the researchers say is inconsistent with the Khazar hypothesis\" and concludes \"that all three Jewish groups—Middle Eastern, Sephardic, and Ashkenazi—share genomewide genetic markers that distinguish them from other worldwide populations\". Geneticist Noah Rosenberg asserts that although recent DNA studies \"do not appear to support\" the Khazar hypothesis, they do not \"entirely eliminate it either.\"\n"}
{"id": "3417249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3417249", "title": "Thomas Ebendorfer", "text": "Thomas Ebendorfer\n\nThomas Ebendorfer (August 10, 1388 – January 12, 1464) was an Austrian historian, professor, and statesman.\n\nBorn at Haselbach, in Upper Austria, he studied at the University of Vienna, where in 1412 he received the degree of Master of Arts. Until 1427 he was attached to the Faculty of Arts and lectured on Aristotle and Latin grammar. After 1419 he was also admitted to the theological faculty as 'cursor biblicus'. In 1427 he was made licentiate and in 1428 Master of Theology; soon after he became dean of the theological faculty, in which body he was a professor until his death.\n\nHe was rector of the University of Vienna in 1423, 1429, and 1445; and he was also canon of St. Stephen's church, and engaged in the apostolic ministry as preacher and as pastor of Perchtoldsdorf and of Falkenstein near Vienna.\n\nHe ranks high among the professors of the University of Vienna in the Fifteenth century. In the struggles which it had to sustain, he championed the rights and interests of the university with zeal and energy.\n\nHe represented the university at the Council of Basle (1432–1434), took an active part in all its discussions, and was one of the delegates sent by the council to Prague to confer with the Hussites.\n\nFrom 1440 to 1444 he was sent to various cities as ambassador of Emperor Frederick III. He disapproved of the attitude of the Council of Basle towards both pope and emperor, and eventually withdrew from it.\n\nHis advocacy of the rights of the Vienna University, coupled with the attacks of his opponents, lost him the favour of the emperor, who saw in him a secret enemy.\n\nIn 1451 and 1452 he was in Italy and went to Rome where he obtained from the pope a confirmation of the privileges of the University of Vienna.\n\nIn the war between Frederick III and Albert of Brandenburg he tried to act as mediator but only fell into greater disfavour with Frederick.\n\nHis last years were clouded by the disturbances of the years 1461–1463 during which Austria had much to suffer from the King of Bohemia, George of Podebrady, and from internal conflicts.\n\nEbendorfer is one of the most prominent chroniclers of the Fifteenth century. His \"Chronicon Austriae\" is a dull but frank and very detailed history of Austria to 1463. From 1400 on it is an indispensable source of Austrian history (ed. Pez in \"Scriptores rerum Austriacarum\", II, Leipzig, 1725, 689-986; in this edition all of Book I and part of Book II were omitted).\n\nHis account of the Council of Basle appears in the \"Diarium gestorum concilii Basileensis pro reductione Bohemorum\" (ed. Birk in Monumenta concilii Basileensis, Scriptores, I, Vienna, 1875, 701-783).\n\nHe wrote also a history of the Roman emperors, \"Chronica regum Romanorum\"; Books VI and VII, which are of independent value as sources, were edited by Pribram in the \"Mitteilungen des Instituts für österreichische Geschichtsforschung\", third supplementary volume (Innsbruck, 1890-1894), 38-222.\n\nMany of his writings are as yet unedited, among them commentaries on Biblical books, sermons, \"Liber de schismatibus\", \"Liber Pontificum Romanorum\" (see Levinson, \"Thomas Ebendorfers Liber Pontificum\" in \"Mitteilungen des Instituts fur osterreichische Geschichtsforschung\", XX, 1899, 69-99). 'Sermones Dominicales', printed in Strasbourg in 1478.\n"}
{"id": "2465801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2465801", "title": "Timofey Granovsky", "text": "Timofey Granovsky\n\nTimofey Nikolayevich Granovsky (; 9 March 1813 – 4 October 1855) was a founder of mediaeval studies in the Russian Empire.\n\nGranovsky was born in Oryol, Russia. He studied at the universities of Moscow and Berlin, where he was profoundly influenced by Hegelian ideas of Leopold von Ranke and Friedrich Karl von Savigny. He felt that the Western history was superior to that of his own country and became the first Russian to deliver courses on the medieval history of Western Europe (1839). Due to the strict censorship of the period, Granovsky assumed that lecturing provided a surer way of disseminating Western ideals in Russia than writing. His major printed work was his doctoral dissertation of 1849, \"Abbat Sugerii\" (Abbot Suger), in which he \"portrayed the great abbot as the architect of royal centralization.\" His master's thesis of 1845, \"Volin, Yumsberg, i Vineta\" (Wolin, Jomsborg, and Vineta), attempted to disprove the historicity of Vineta and was very controversial, offending the Slavophiles.\n\nHis readings in the Moscow University were immensely popular and brought him in touch with other Westernizers. One of these, Alexander Herzen, described Granovsky's lectures as \"a draught of freedom in Nicholas I's Russia\".\n\nFyodor Dostoyevsky's novel \"The Possessed\" features a character, Stepan Trofimovich Verkhovensky, that is partly based on Granovsky. According to Cole, this \"liberal who unwittingly inspired a generation of nihilists is unfair to Granovsky but is nevertheless another tribute to his importance as an inspiring teacher and a man of his age.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51872913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51872913", "title": "Vasco Ferretti", "text": "Vasco Ferretti\n\nVasco Ferretti (born 25 August 1935) is an Italian novelist, historian, professor and journalist from Buggiano, Tuscany. He has written books in the fiction genres of historical novels and the Romance novel. His most important books are \"Kesselring\" (2009), \"Vip & Stars\" (1983), \"Dante Alighieri e la battaglia di Montecatini\" (2015), \"Le stragi naziste sotto la linea gotica 1944: Sant'Anna di Stazzema, Padule di Fucecchio, Marzabotto\" (2004).\n\nVasco Ferretti was born in Buggiano, Toscana (August 25, 1935). He was born in to a farming family, and obtained his master's degree in 1953, after studying for two years at the Catering College of Montecatini. He then worked as a hotel doorman in Forte dei Marmi.\nIn 1955–1956 he attended the annual course for trade union leaders of the Trade Union CISL (Centro Studi di San Domenico di Fiesole),\nand emerged with a five-year assignment in Rome as the National Secretary of Tourism Workers in the same CISL.\nHe returned to Montecatini because of his family's economic problems and then studied to obtain a degree in philosophy and science of education in 1970 at the University of Urbino, where he subsequently taught for two years.\nHis victory at the Ministerial Competition allowed him to teach philosophy and history at the Institute of Pescia and Montecatini, until his retirement from teaching in 1992.\nIn 1975 he was listed in the Register of Journalists working in Tuscany.\nFor the past decades he has dedicated himself to historical research by publishing with Mursia (Milan) the following works:\n\"Kesselring\" (biography); \"Nazi massacres of Marzabotto, Stazzema and marshes of Fucecchio.\"; \"1944, a Red Blood Summer\", set in Tuscany under the German occupation during World War II.\nFerretti also works with other publishers: \"Lager and Gulag\" with Amazon (ebook on Kindle).\n\nFerretti's works are highly influenced by traces of his philosophical and classical formation. In passages of his books there are multiple references to Franz Kafka in the syntax and in the paragraph structure.\nHis works are influenced by his association with Hermeticism and by his relationship with writers such as Giuseppe Ungaretti, Salvatore Quasimodo, Eugenio Montale and Dante Alighieri, who deeply influenced him and his literature. Hermeticism is a tradition which follows a set of philosophical and religious beliefs.\n\n\"Kesselring\" (Edizioni Mursia, Milano, 2009) is a biography of Albert Kesselring, a German Luftwaffe general, during World War II. The general was born on November 30, 1885, in Marktsteft (German empire) and died in a sanatorium in Bad Nauheim in West Germany, on 16 July 1960 at the age of 74, following a heart attack. He was one of the most skillful and highly decorated commanders of Nazi Germany. The biography focuses on the general's military feats, his imprisonment and his participation to the Nuremberg trials(1946) as a witness, and to the trials in Venice (1947) as an accused. The structure of the biography is a historical-judiciary thriller, which is one of the characteristics that made this novel one of Vasco Ferretti's most relevant works. Author \"Ovidio Dallera\" in a review of \"Kesselring\" describes General Kesselring as a character who earned his notoriety unlike many historical characters who have obtained an undeserved 'fame'. Vasco Ferretti, has been the first historical researcher that has brought the acts of the process against Albert Kesselring in Italy, from the War Office in Kew (London), from which he also drew the book Vernichten. \"Kesselring\" by Vasco Ferretti isn't the only book regarding the general, since other writings about him could also be found, for example: Kesselring's own biography written by himself during his combat years, \"Albert Kesselring\" written by P. Paolo Battistelli and \"Kesselring: the making of the Luftwaffe\" written by Kenneth Macksey.\n\n\"Dante Alighieri e la battaglia di Montecatini\" (EDIFIR, 2015) is a historical novel about the Battle of Montecatini, on August 29, 1325 in the Province of Pistoia.\nThe battle was fought in the Val di Nievole by the Republic of Pisa, and the forces of both the Kingdom of Naples and the Republic of Florence. The Guelphs and the Capetian House of Anjou hoped the battle represented the showdown for the Ghibellines of Pisa and of Lucca, led by Uguccione della Faggiuola and Castruccio Castracani, but it turned out to be a tragic defeat to the detriment of Florence instead. Niccolò Machiavelli, in his biography of Castruccio Castracani, wrote that the battle only caused thousands of deaths. Due to the ransom of many prisoners, Florence suffered an economic collapse and this situation made complex the conditions of Dante Alighieri, who was returning after thirteen years of exile. Dante himself, as well as all his biographers, desired to go back to Florence to spend the rest of his life. It unfortunately was a life expectancy never assuaged.\n\nVernichten (in German = 'annihilate') refers to the order given to the soldiers of the Wehrmacht for the massacre of the Marsh of Fucecchio in August 23–24, 1944.\nIt was run by General Peter Eduard Crasemann and caused 174 victims (men, women and children).\nThe massacre took place in the area between Pistoia and Florence that is called Marsh of Fucecchio.\nThe reasons for the massacre are unclear, but could be related to false intelligence which pointed out the presence of gangs of partisans in the Marsh of Fucecchio.\n\n\"Le stragi naziste sotto la linea gotica. 1944: Sant'Anna di Stazzema, Padule di Fucecchio, Marzabotto\" is an enquire book about the massacres committed by the 16. SS-Panzergrenadier-Division \"Reichsführer SS\" and the 26 Panzer division commanded by the Corps Commander Max Simon. The book, released in 2004 analyzes the terroristic operations, committed by the nazi in order to intimidate and scare the population of Marzabotto, Sant'Anna di Stazzema and Padule di Fucecchio. The author provides a precise chronicle of the massacres and how they happened. The book also explores the background of those communities before the tragedy and the psychological impact these slaughters had on the population and on the partisan resistance. Due to its relevant historical content for the Italian culture, the book was inserted into the historical series of the Italian editor Mursia\n\nIn a late evening of September 1974 (16 years before his death), Alberto Moravia is the great defendant in a process that takes place in one of the \"liberty\" rooms of the Tamerici baths in Montecatini. The accuser is Aldo Rossi, the defender of Moravia is Geno Pampaloni, a well known Italian book reviewer. It was more a great opportunity for Moravia to express himself, his ideas and his motives to write rather than the focus on the process itself. He explained so much that it could have been possible to draft his autobiography. He was brought to the process because of his lack of proper interest in the country's affairs. He confesses his thoughts in front of an audience that previously had witnessed at the process of Pier Paolo Pasolini and accept his reasons as well as it did with Moravia's in this trial fiction.\nMoravia claims he is a disciple of Fëdor Dostoevskij (Fyodor Dostoyevsky): indeed traces of the Russian writer can be recognized in his literature. Alberto Moravia outlines his strong tendency to tell stories and his great curiosity as to illustrate his disengaged literature. Geno Pampaloni deems him to be the most illustrious journalist in Italy; nowadays he is still remembered as one of the greatest journalist.\n\nVips and stars is a unique story of characters that recalls the Belle Époque period and the roaring '60s. Its main characters are divas, geniuses, kings, lords, queens, maraharaja, writers, politicians, musicians, movie producers, actors and actresses. These celebrities are inserted in the scenario of the faboulous and famous city of Montecatini Terme. The main personalities in this story are:\n\nCharacters: Divas and Lords\n\n\n\nPoliticians\n\n\nWriters\n\n\nGeniuses and Artists\n\n\nMusicians\n\n\nThis romance, set in the 60's, is about the story of Alessandro and Denise, two young high school students that meet on the dance floor of a disco in the city of Pistoia. The two immediately fall in love passionately with each other but their passion will make them face the consequences of belonging to different social classes and their different aspirations. As the boy moves to Forte dei Marmi to seek work as a concierge in a luxury hotel, Denise, a rebel soul, decides to escape from the upper class society in order to pursue her desire of success without letting him know about her movements. After all Alessandro doesn't give up and keeps following his love dream, facing rich entrepreneurs, actresses and movie directors. Ferretti shows in this work a snapshot of a period and of the generation of the time. The story is animated by a deep search of the meaning of life and by the never ending search under the surface of existence to get to its most authentic meaning\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5260876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5260876", "title": "Zuo Qiuming", "text": "Zuo Qiuming\n\nZuo Qiuming, Zuoqiu Ming or Qiu Ming (556 BC-451 BC) was a Chinese writer and contemporary of Confucius who lived in the State of Lu during the Spring and Autumn period of ancient China. \n\nThe influential \"Zuozhuan\" (\"Commentary of Zuo\") is traditionally attributed to him. He is also possibly a contributor to \"Guoyu\". One tradition, according to the \"Records of the Grand Historian\", holds that he was blind (cf. Homer).\n\nZuo is noted in the \"Analects\" as a paragon of virtue to Confucius.\n"}
