{"id": "2136854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136854", "title": "1:5:200", "text": "1:5:200\n\nIn the construction industry, the 1:5:200 rule (or 1:5:200 ratio) is a rule of thumb that states that: \n\nThe rule originated in a Royal Academy of Engineering paper by Evans \"et al\".\n\nSometimes the ratios are given as 1:10:200. The figures are averages and broad generalizations, since construction costs will vary with land costs, building type, and location, and staffing costs will vary with business sector and local economy. The RAE paper started a number of arguments about the basis for the figures: whether they were credible: whether they should be discounted; what is included in each category. These arguments overshadow the principal message of the paper that concentration on first capital cost is not optimising use value: support to the occupier and containment of operating-cost. Study by the Constructing Excellence Be Valuable Task Group, chaired by Richard Saxon, came to the view that there is merit in knowing more about key cost ratios as benchmarks and that we can expect wide variation between building types and even individual examples of the same type.\n\nHughes \"et al\", of the University of Reading School of Construction Management and Engineering, observed that the \"Evans ratio\" is merely a passing remark in the paper's introduction (talking of \"commercial office buildings\" and stating that \"similar ratios might well apply in other types of building\") forming part of a pitch that the proportion of a company's expenditure on a building that is spent directly on the building itself (rather than upon staffing it) is around 3%, and that no data are given to support the ratio and no defence of it is given in the remainder of the paper. In attempting to determine this ratio afresh, from published data on real buildings, they found it impossible to reproduce the 1:5:200 ratio, in part because the data and methodology employed by Evans et al. were not published and in part because the definitions employed in the original paper could not be applied. The ratios that they determined were different by an order of magnitude from the 1:5:200 ratio, being approximately 1:0.4:12. They observed that \"everyone else who deals with real numbers\" pitches the percentage somewhere between 10% and 30%, and that their data support 12%.\n\nThey note (as does Clements-Croome) that the three costs for every individual building are affected by a plethora of factors, yielding a wide variation in ratios. They suggest that \"[p]erhaps the original 1:5:200 ratio was simply meant to be a statement to focus clients' attention\" on the importance of considering the higher staffing costs of a building relative to its operating and construction costs, and to encourage people to not be too concerned with higher initial build costs to improve build quality and reduce later lifetime costs. They state that if this is so \"then subsequent users of the ratio have misused it\", and that the frequency of use of the ratio is not problematic, but that the authority and gravitas that are assigned to it is. They conclude that \"perhaps the most worrying feature of this whole discussion is how this passing introductory remark in the paper by Evans \"et al\" has gained the status of a finding from research carried out by the Royal Academy of Engineering, which it most certainly is not!\".\n\n"}
{"id": "46769399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46769399", "title": "A Flying Jatt", "text": "A Flying Jatt\n\nA Flying Jatt is a 2016 Indian superhero film co-written and directed by Remo D'Souza and produced under the banner of Balaji Motion Pictures. It features Tiger Shroff, Jacqueline Fernandez and Nathan Jones in the lead roles. \"A Flying Jatt\" narrates the story of an ordinary man (Shroff) who gains superpowers. The film released worldwide on 25 August 2016 on Janmashtami weekend. It received negative reviews.and was a box office disappointment.\n\nWealthy and influential businessman Mr. Malhotra (Kay Kay Menon) has built a factory on the shore of a lake into which pollutants and toxic waste are released. He wants to build a bridge across it for faster transportation but cannot do so due to a sacred tree present on the other side of the lake on a piece of land which belongs to Mrs. Dhillon (Amrita Singh), a religious but irrepressible Punjabi woman living with her two sons Aman Dhillon (Tiger Shroff) and Rohit Dhillon (Gaurav Pandey). Aman is a martial arts teacher in a school, and has a crush on Kirti (Jacqueline Fernandez), a fellow teacher.\n\nAfter Malhotra fails to intimidate the Dhillon family into selling their land, he brings in Raka (Nathan Jones), a mercenary, to get the job done. Raka arrives at the tree with a chainsaw but Aman is present there and tries to stop him. Raka beats Aman badly but moments before he tries to decapitate him with the saw a lightning bolt hits the tree. The impact flings Raka away and he lands amongst barrels of toxic waste outside Malhotra's factory.\n\nThe next morning, Aman finds himself in his bed alive with no sign of any injury and presumes all that happened to be a dream. He also does not notice a khanda that has appeared on his back, the same symbol which was carved on the tree and had been imprinted on him during the attack. Later that day, he and his brother notice a few unusual things happening to him, such as increased agility and the ability to absorb information by touching objects. After escaping an ambush using super speed, Rohit and his mother confirm that Aman has somehow gained super powers. She immediately declares him a superhero.\n\nAfter making him a costume and showing him several superhero films for inspiration, Aman's mother tells him the story of his father Sardar Kartar Singh Dhillon, a Sikh who went to Shaolin to learn martial arts and was named \"Flying Jatt\". She asks Aman to take up the legacy of his father and keep Flying Jatt as his superhero name to which he agrees. Although his superhero exploits get off to a rocky start, Flying Jatt is soon recognised when he saves hostages from a terrorist attack at an airport. As he gains even more success being a hero, Aman proposes to Kirti and reveals his secret identity to her.\n\nRaka is found alive but is now stronger and more dangerous than before after being exposed to the pollutants at the factory, which further exposure continues to make him even more powerful. Aman goes on to battle him several times, beating Raka each time before finally becoming gravely injured in a brutal fight. To save him from further pain, his brother Rohit goes in his place as Flying Jatt and gets killed. Not wanting to lose her remaining son, Mrs. Dhillon decides to leave. However, Aman decides to stay, saying that the cries and sounds of pain of the people would never leave him. Aman then prepares to fight Raka one last time.\n\nHowever, believing Flying Jatt to be dead, the people decide to take on Raka on their own, with even Malhotra joining them after his daughter is affected by the increasing pollution. Raka returns to kill them once and for all, but Flying Jatt suddenly appears. Raka, in a fit of rage, drags Flying Jatt to the sacred tree and tries to kill him when his mother reappears before them and prays, giving more inspiration to Aman who gets up and takes Raka to an asteroid near Earth. Raka becomes vulnerable on the pollution-free asteroid, and after a long fight, Aman finally inserts his kara (steel bracelet) into Raka, causing him to explode.\n\n\nA Flying Jatt received mixed reviews. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, \"A Flying Jatt\" has an approval rating of 50% on the basis of 6 reviews with an average rating of 4.8 out of 10.\n\nSrijana Mitra Das from The Times of India gave the film 3.5 out of 5 stars and stated, \"Tiger does a neat job as Aman, shivering superhero who fights crime but also buys 'do kilo lauki' on the way home\".\n\nFirstpost said \"The film's comedy, occasional inventiveness and aura of innocence are what make it effective in its own way, despite the lack of depth. D'souza had displayed his natural wit even in his first film F.A.L.T.U. in 2011. A Flying Jatt could have been so much better than what it is, if he had not kept one eye fixed Westward for inspiration. This one is perhaps best suited to the very very young.\"\n\nSarita Tanwar from Daily News and Analysis gave the film 2 out of 5 stars and said \"You'll need superhero levels of patience to watch this\".\n\nAnupama Chopra from the Hindustan Times gave the film 1.5 stars out of 5, and said \"The first half of A Flying Jatt has moments of fun — I loved that despite being a superhero he has a fear of heights, so he flies very close to the ground. But post-interval, laughter takes a back seat.\"\n\nHuffPost critic Suprateek Chatterjee asked the question, \"Why does this even exist?\" and stated, \"Remo D'Souza's superhero flick is a symbol of Bollywood's laziness and creative bankruptcy\".\n\n\"A Flying Jatt\" has been made into a graphic novel by Thought Bubbles Studio Planet. The story continues where the film ends.\n"}
{"id": "10847832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10847832", "title": "Anti-Malay sentiment", "text": "Anti-Malay sentiment\n\nAnti-Malay sentiment refers to hostility or hatred that is directed toward Malays or the state of Malaysia. \n\nSouthern Thailand and particularly the province of Pattani is the home of the ethnic Malays in Thailand. In the 18th century after the Thais captured the Malay-dominated provinces in the south, the Thai consciously avoided referring to the people as Malays and instead preferring the term Thai Muslim. For the purpose of integration, Malay identity was discouraged by the Thai state. Due to such policy, there is a diminishing Malay proficiency among young Malays. This had led to prejudice against Muslims in general instead of specifically against the Malays.\n\nAt present, there are Malay separatists in southern Thailand demanding that the Malay-Muslim dominated provinces are granted independence. This has led to killings done by Muslim terrorists. Indiscriminate arrest of Malays has fuelled distrust and resentment against the Thai authority among the locals.\n\nThaksin had declared a militant law in southern Thailand. Former Prime Minister Thaksin has been blamed for action that lead to an incident at Tak Bai that led to the death of a number of Malays.\n\nSingapore was once a thriving Malay fishing village prior to British colonisation. According to the Malay Annals, a Sumatran prince called Sang Nila Utama was known to have founded ancient Singapore in 1299. However, the modern city of Singapore stemmed from 1819 when established by Sir Stamford Raffles. Under the British administration, Singapore experienced an influx of immigrants particularly from China and India. Singapore joined the Federation of Malaysia on 16 September 1963, along with the present Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak. Since Singapore's separation from Malaysia on 9 August 1965, it became a sovereign, multi-racial republic of which the Chinese community formed the majority.\n\nIn the 1970s, Mandarin was promoted over other Chinese dialects. SAP Schools were created to provide Mandarin among the Chinese. The reference to Confucian society by former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew marked a shift in policy of neutral multiculturalism to Chinese-dominated society. Chinese schools began receiving government aids while other schools were neglected.\n\nThe former Prime Minister had once sparked a debate on the loyalty of the Malays to Singapore. He stated that the Malays might have conflict when it comes to loyalty. Earlier, former Indonesian President Habibie's alleged that the Singapore Armed Forces discriminate against the Malays. The Singaporean government has been cautious in issue of Malay loyalty. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong is a supporter of this policy. For the same reason, the Malays have been nearly absent from armed force scholarship list and top positions in armed forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "38490707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38490707", "title": "Ara trium Galliarum", "text": "Ara trium Galliarum\n\nThe Ara trium Galliarum, or ‘Altar of the three Gallic provinces’, was a Roman sanctuary near \"Lugdunum\" (today Lyon in France). The altar was consecrated to the goddess Roma and Augustus.\n\nIn the 2nd decade of the 1st century BC, Drusus built the ritual place as part of the preparation for his offensive in Germania. Once a year on August 1 the \"Concilium provinciae\", the province council of the Gallic provinces, met at that place. The main function of the council was to sacrifice to the Roman Emperor (see imperial cult), elect a priest of Rome and Augustus for the coming year, and arrange public games. In this way, the Gallic tribes demonstrated their allegiance to Rome.\n\nAnalogous to the \"Ara trium Galliarum\" was the \"Ara Ubiorum\", constructed in \"Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium\" (modern Cologne) for the Germanic provincial council.\n\n"}
{"id": "53917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53917", "title": "Archetype", "text": "Archetype\n\nThe concept of an archetype appears in areas relating to behavior, modern psychological theory, and literary analysis. An archetype can be:\n\n\nThe word \"archetype\", \"original pattern from which copies are made\", first entered into English usage in the 1540s and derives from the Latin noun \"archetypum\", latinisation of the Greek noun (\"archétypon\")\",\" whose adjective form is (\"archétypos\"), which means \"first-molded\", which is a compound of \"archḗ\", \"beginning, origin\", and \"týpos\", which can mean, amongst other things, \"pattern\", \"model\", or \"type\".\n\nUsage of archetypes in specific pieces of writing is a holistic approach, which can help the writing win universal acceptance. This is because readers can relate to and identify with the characters and the situation, both socially and culturally. By deploying common archetypes contextually, a writer aims to impart realism to their work.\nAccording to many literary critics, archetypes have a standard and recurring depiction in a particular human culture and/or the whole human race that ultimately lays concrete pillars and can shape the whole structure in a literary work.\n\nThe origins of the archetypal hypothesis date as far back as Plato. Plato's \"ideas\" were pure mental forms that were imprinted in the soul before it was born into the world. They were collective in the sense that they embodied the fundamental characteristics of a thing rather than its specific peculiarities. In the seventeenth century, Sir Thomas Browne and Francis Bacon both employ the word 'archetype' in their writings; Browne in \"The Garden of Cyrus\" (1658) attempted to depict archetypes in his usage of symbolic proper-names.\n\nThe concept of psychological archetypes was advanced by the Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung, c. 1919. In Jung's psychological framework, archetypes are innate, universal prototypes for ideas and may be used to interpret observations. A group of memories and interpretations associated with an archetype is a complex ( e.g. a mother complex associated with the mother archetype). Jung treated the archetypes as psychological organs, analogous to physical ones in that both are morphological constructs that arose through evolution. At the same time, it has also been observed that evolution can itself be considered an archetypal construct.\nJung states in part one of \"Man And His Symbols\" that:My views about the 'archaic remnants', which I call 'archetypes' or 'primordial images,' have been constantly criticized by people who lack a sufficient knowledge of the psychology of dreams and of mythology. The term 'archetype' is often misunderstood as meaning certain definite mythological images or motifs, but these are nothing more than conscious representations. Such variable representations cannot be inherited. The archetype \"is a tendency to form such representations\" of a motif—representations that can vary a great deal in detail without losing their basic pattern.While there are a variety of categorizations of archetypes, Jung's configuration is perhaps the most well known and serves as the foundation for many other models. The four major archetypes to emerge from his work, which Jung originally terms \"primordial images,\" include the anima/animus, the self, the shadow, and the persona. Additionally, Jung referred to images of the wise old man, the child, the mother, and the maiden. He believed that each human mind retains these basic unconscious understandings of the human condition and the collective knowledge of our species in the construct of the collective unconscious.\n\nOther authors have attributed 12 different archetypes to Jung, organized in three overarching categories, based on a fundamental driving force. These include:\n\n\n\nLater in the 1900s, a Viennese psychologist named Dr. Ernest Dichter took these psychological constructs and applied them to marketing. Around 1939, he moved to New York and sent every ad agency on Madison Avenue a famous letter boasting his new discovery. He found that applying these universal themes to products promoted easier discovery and stronger loyalty for brands.\n\nChristopher Booker, author of \"The Seven Basic Plots: Why We Tell Stories\", argues that the following basic archetypes underlie all stories:\nThese themes coincide with the characters of Jung's archetypes.\n\nArchetypal literary criticism argues that archetypes determine the form and function of literary works and that a text's meaning is shaped by cultural and psychological myths. Cultural archetypes are the unknowable basic forms personified or made concrete by recurring images, symbols, or patterns (which may include motifs such as the \"quest\" or the \"heavenly ascent\"; recognizable character types such as the \"trickster\", \"saint\", \"martyr\" or the \"hero\"; symbols such as the apple or the snake; and imagery) and that have all been laden with meaning prior to their inclusion in any particular work.\n\nThe archetypes reveal shared roles among universal societies, such as the role of the mother in her natural relations with all members of the family. This archetype may create a shared imagery which is defined by many stereotypes that have not separated themselves from the traditional, biological, religious and mythical framework.\n\n"}
{"id": "29202260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29202260", "title": "Azerbaijan Photographers Union", "text": "Azerbaijan Photographers Union\n\nAzerbaijan Photographers Union (APU) is the public, creative, non-profit organization, based on the principles of open society, voluntariness and self-government.\n\nIt acts under the Constitution of Azerbaijan and Charter of the Union.\n\nThe Azerbaijan Photographers Union was registered in the Ministry of Justice of the Azerbaijan Republic on the 20 November 1998 by certificate number 1073.\n\nAt the beginning of 1990, with the collapse of the USSR, all working structures became worthless and it became apparent that there was need of an organization in which professional and amateur photographers — all those who are devoted to photographic art — would join together.\n\nAt that time a serious, uniting moment in the organization's establishment became preparation and holding of the \"Photographers of Azerbaijan\" exhibition in Nantes, France in November 1995, where 105 works by 24 photographers were presented.\n\nAfter the exhibition in France, there were 3 years of debates, the charter's complying, overcoming obstacles, and the initiative group was formed to tackle this - registered the Union officially, although actually the Union already acted from 1994 on a voluntary basis, without legal status.\n\nThe main purposes and tasks of the APU are promotion to the national development of photo art, popularization of its achievements in the country and abroad, preservation and creative use of photographic heritage. With the purpose of promotion and development of photo art the Union organizes exhibitions, competitions, festivals, master classes, conferences and symposiums with the participation of the Azerbaijani and foreign photographers, as well as promotes the amateur movement.\n\n10 years passed from the APU's establishment. During this period the members of the creative union have organized and taken part in more than 100 exhibitions, including more than 30 in foreign countries (USA, UK, France, Turkey, Germany, Belgium, Ukraine, Greece, Russia, Mongolia, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Georgia etc.).\n\nThe Chairman of the Board is Mirnaib Hasanoglu.\n\n"}
{"id": "1145369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1145369", "title": "Black House (novel)", "text": "Black House (novel)\n\nBlack House is a horror novel by American writers Stephen King and Peter Straub. Published in 2001, it is the sequel to \"The Talisman\".\nThis is one of King's numerous novels, which also include \"Hearts in Atlantis\" and \"Insomnia\", that tie in with the \"Dark Tower\" series. \"Black House\" was nominated to the Bram Stoker Award for Best Novel.\n\nThe novel is set in Straub's homeland Wisconsin, rather than in King's frequently used backdrop of Maine. The town of \"French Landing\" is a fictionalized version of the town of Trempealeau, Wisconsin. Also, \"Centralia\" is named after the nearby small town of Centerville, Wisconsin, located at the intersection of Hwy 93 and Hwy 35.\n\nA chapter of the book is written around Edgar Allan Poe's poem \"The Raven\".\n\nA series of murders has begun to plague the town of French Landing, Wisconsin. The murderer is dubbed \"The Fisherman\", due to a conscious effort by the killer to emulate the methods of serial killer Albert Fish. Like Fish, French Landing's killer targets children and indulges in cannibalism of the bodies. Two victims have already been discovered as the story opens, with a third awaiting discovery. The nature of the crimes, and the local police's inability to capture the killer, have led people all over the region to become more anxious with each passing day, and certain elements of the local media exacerbate the situation with inflammatory and provocative coverage.\n\nAfter the events of \"The Talisman\", Jack Sawyer has repressed the memories of his adventures in The Territories and his hunt for the Talisman as a twelve-year-old boy, though the residue of these events has served to subtly affect his life even after he has forgotten them. Jack grew up to become a lieutenant in the Los Angeles Police Department, where his professionalism and uncanny talent have helped him establish a nearly-legendary reputation. When a series of murders in Los Angeles are traced to a farm insurance salesman from French Landing, Wisconsin, Jack cooperates with the French Landing Police to capture the killer. While in Wisconsin, Jack is irresistibly enraptured by the natural beauty of the Coulee Country, echoing his reaction to The Territories as a child. When he later intrudes upon a homicide investigation in Santa Monica, certain aspects of the crime scene threaten to revive his repressed memories. He subsequently resigns from the LAPD, and he moves to French Landing to enjoy his early retirement.\n\nWhen the Fisherman begins to terrorize French Landing, the police all but beg \"Hollywood\" Jack Sawyer for his assistance and are surprised when he flatly refuses. Memories of the Santa Monica event threaten to overwhelm Jack, and he fears that involving himself in the investigation may break his sanity. When a fourth child is taken by the Fisherman, events no longer allow Jack to remain aloof. It quickly becomes apparent to him that the Fisherman is much more than a serial killer. In fact, he is an agent of the Crimson King, and his task is to find children with the potential to serve as Breakers. The fourth victim, Tyler Marshall, is one of the most powerful Breakers there has ever been, and he may be all the Crimson King needs to break the remaining beams of the Dark Tower and bring an end to all worlds. As the Fisherman also proves capable of \"flipping\" into The Territories, Jack Sawyer is the only hope of not just French Landing, but all existence.\n\n"}
{"id": "18367052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18367052", "title": "Budapest Pride", "text": "Budapest Pride\n\nBudapest Pride, or Budapest Pride Film and Cultural Festival, is Hungary's largest annual LGBT event. Of the week-long festival, the march is the most visible event. The march has historically been known under several names, including \"Budapest Gay Dignity Procession\" (), and has taken place each year since 1997, usually on the first Saturday of July, proceeding along Budapest's most expansive thoroughfare, Andrássy Avenue, between the City Park (Városliget) and Elizabeth Square (Erzsébet tér). Though much smaller in scale than similar gay pride parades in Western Europe and the Americas, around one to two thousand marchers typically participate in the Budapest procession. Radical right-wing demonstrators and hooligans have severely disrupted the Budapest Pride marches held in 2007 and 2008, casting uncertainty over the future of the event. Budapest Pride however has been held successfully in the intervening years, with minimal incidents.\n\nAlthough the march is the best known aspect of the festival, the Budapest Pride Film and Cultural Festival includes many other events, such as its film festival, discussions, exhibitions, theater productions, author readings, picnics, speeches, religious events, concerts, and parties. In 2011, the festival had over 100 events.\n\nThere was only a smattering of public protest against the first eleven Budapest gay parades, until the one held in July 2007. In 2003, prominent right-wing radical György Budaházy and a group of about 30 anti-gay protestors blew whistles and chanted slogans such as \"dirty queers\" at marchers as the parade crossed the Elizabeth Bridge. In 2004, a few activists from the center-right Christian-Democratic Hungarian Democratic Forum political party stood along the route of the procession blowing whistles and holding signs displaying quotations from the Bible, while police took one man into custody for throwing a rock at an officer at the beginning of the parade. In 2005, about 10 neo-Nazis taunted paraders at one point along the route, while the notorious blogger, inciter and media manipulator Tamás Polgár (known by the alias \"Tomcat\") rigged to a pillar of the Chain Bridge a rolled-up, egg-filled sign, which he intended to unfurl via remote control as the procession crossed the bridge, thus dropping its contents down onto the marchers. However, the remote-control malfunctioned, forcing Tomcat and an accomplice to climb up the pillar to manually disengage the sign reading \"stupid queer gays\" (hülye buzi melegek), though only after the parade had passed underneath. In 2006, about a dozen activists from the radical right-wing Jobbik (Movement for a Better Hungary) political party and another dozen protestors affiliated with the right-wing extremist Hungarian Self-Defense Movement (Magyar Önvédelmi Mozgalom) heckled participants in the parade.\n\nThe 12th Budapest Gay Dignity Procession held on July 7, 2007 was the first to encounter substantial, belligerent protest. Some 2000 participants marched from Procession Square (Felvonulási Tér) past Heroes' Square down Andrássy Avenue. Several balloon-decorated flatbed trucks marshaled the parade down the avenue, blaring techno-pop from mounted speakers and carrying the standard array of shirtless young men, transvestites, neo-punk lesbians and campy-costumed figures, including a man in tight shorts, a black shirt, and a clerical collar, who held a big pink book bearing a cross and was later to become the focus of attacks from the far-right media, particularly Kuruc.info.\n\nSeveral hundred police escorted the procession in full riot gear, ready to protect participants from expected aggression en route to the parade’s destination at a dance club located on the Pest side of the Danube called Buddha Beach. Just as in 2006, the extraparliamentary Jobbik party and the Hungarian Self-Defense Movement had organized demonstrations against the gay parade. However a culture of right-wing public protest and violent hooliganism had emerged in Hungary during the intervening year with the outbreak of massive anti-government demonstrations known collectively as the \"fall disturbances\" (\"őszi zavargások\") in September and October 2006, prompting police to expect that the 2007 protests against the gay parade would be much more extensive and aggressive.\n\nApproximately 500 protesters awaited the parade behind a metal-fence barrier erected at the site of Jobbik’s officially announced anti-gay demonstration at the corner of the Oktogon, chanting \"dirty queers!\" and pelting marchers with eggs as they turned south onto the Grand Boulevard (Nagy Körút) on their way toward Buddha Beach. A rank of riot police wedged between the procession and the protesters, who had begun to bombard participants with, in addition to eggs, empty beer cans, smoke bombs and plastic bags filled with petroleum jelly and sand, the latter alluding to the Hungarian slang word , literally \"sandy\", for \"gay\". Police chased those seen throwing these objects at marchers up to several hundred yards down the sidewalk, eventually arresting and charging 8 protesters for disturbing the peace. Police narrowly averted a more brutal assault on the parade, chasing off a group of approximately 30 hooligans, who discarded bags full of empty bottles and fist-sized rocks as they fled down a side street. Jeering protesters accompanied the parade all the way to its terminus, dispersing following a brief standoff with riot cops and police dogs during which they changed slogans such as \"Queers into the Danube, Jews after them!\" and \"Gyurcsány [Hungary’s prime minister] get out!\"\n\nThe Budapest police, after effectively buffering marchers from the protesters during the procession, failed to protect people leaving Buddha Beach later that evening, when, according to parade organizers, 11 attacks took place in the vicinity of the club against gays, two of whom required medical treatment. A freelance photographer for the Hungarian News Agency MTI won 2nd place in the 2007 World Press Photo contest with his photograph of two gay German tourists who were among those attacked following the parade. Several civil organizations in Hungary and Amnesty International criticized the Budapest police (BRFK) for failing to sufficiently protect participants in the 2007 Budapest gay parade, both during and after the event. The BRFK subsequently initiated disciplinary procedures against one officer for failing to respond to a call for police protection following the parade.\n\nBudapest Police Chief Gábor Tóth, evidently aware that the 2008 Gay Dignity Procession was likely to elicit even greater protest than that in 2007, on June 11 informed the event's organizer, the Rainbow Mission Foundation [Szivárvány Misszió Alapítvány], that the BRFK had prohibited its request to hold the 2008 parade along Andrássy Avenue on July 5 on the grounds that it would \"impede the circulation of mass transit and vehicle traffic\". Fifteen Hungarian gay organizations, including the Rainbow Mission Foundation, sent a letter to the BRFK the following day protesting the decision, urging the Budapest police \"not to try to prevent expected right-wing extremist attacks on the parade by forbidding it, but to do its duty to defend the marchers from expected aggression.\" Additionally, liberal Budapest Mayor Gábor Demszky refuted Chief Tóth's claim that the parade would unduly obstruct traffic in the vicinity of Andrássy Avenue, while the Hungarian Civil Liberties Union (known in its Hungarian-language acronymic form as TASZ) and the Hungarian Helsinki Committee [Magyar Helsinki Bizottság] human rights organization also denounced the BRFK's prohibition of the parade. (TASZ announced that it would provide Hungarian gay organizations with legal services in the event that they chose to file a lawsuit against the BRFK for banning the parade, noting that the Budapest police routinely closes Andrássy Avenue to vehicle traffic for weekend events, most recently for the National Gallop equestrian show held on the weekend of May 31-June 1, 2008.) The BRFK retracted its prohibition of the gay parade the very same day, on June 12, announcing one week later that it had approved the Rainbow Mission Foundation's original request to hold the event along the established route on the customary first Saturday of July.\n\nThe most influential right-wing extremist groups and websites immediately went on the offensive following the announcement that the Budapest gay parade would be held as usual in 2008. On June 18, Budaházy and his close associate, the leader of the radical-nationalist 64 Counties Youth Movement [64 Vármegye Ifjúsági Mozgalom] László Toroczkai, issued a joint communiqué regarding the parade:\nWe will not permit aberrant foreigners of this or that color to force their alien and sick world on Hungary. We hereby publicly declare that we, ourselves, will defend the Hungarian capital. Every Hungarian patriot is needed! Stand among the defenders, or form defensive forces from among your groups and organizations, and come to the Oktogon in Budapest at 4 o'clock in the afternoon of July 5.! It is our moral duty to act...\n\nThe Rainbow Rampage, the aggressive pederast caravan of degenerate foreigners that is traversing Europe, will arrive to its final stop in Budapest on July 4, Freemasonry's biggest holiday and the anniversary of the signing of America's Declaration of Independence, in order to celebrate queerdom in our capital for several days on end. Beginning at 4 p.m. on July 5, this exhibitionist queer rabble will hold a public procession and street ball, trampling under foot all fundamental traditional moral values and proclaiming Hungary's occupation by aberrants and foreigners.\n\nHOWEVER.\n\nDuring these days, we Hungarian patriots will recall the Battle of Pressburg in which the forces of our founding father, Prince Árpád, inflicted a crushing defeat upon the western armies...\n\nThe army of Hunnia will defend the capital of the Hungarians on July 5, 2008!.\nAll the major right-wing radical websites in Hungary published this announcement, whose authors arguably command the greatest capacity in the country to mobilize right-wing extremists for engagement in violent street action. Also on June 18, the Hungarian Self-Defense Movement (known in its Hungarian-language acronymic form as MÖM), which had been involved in organizing protests against the previous two gay parades, published an appeal on the organization's website under the heading \"On July 5 we will attack out of self-defense!\":\n\nWe summon all Hungarians, responsibly minded families, fathers and mothers,\nto all come and expel the pederast horde once and for all! We cannot simply watch passively as such genetic trash shows a bad example for our children! ... We call upon all Hungarian self-defenders to resist on Saturday afternoon on July 5, we will meet at the designated place! We will unite our forces at the Oktogon!\nOn June 28, an anonymous self-described founding member of a fan club for the Budapest soccer team Ferencváros, whose supporters have a highly publicized history of hooliganism and participation in right-wing extremist street aggression, published a letter on MÖM 's website stating that \"we are answering the Hungarian Self-Defense Movement's appeal\":\nWe will be there! With weapons if we must, with bare hands if we must, but we will not let things stand as they are! Let those who oppose us tremble with fear!\nOn June 19, Tomcat proposed on his website Bomb Factory (Bombagyár) that a straight parade be held at the same time as the gay parade:\nThe annual \"gay pride\" day is coming as usual. The queers spend millions on their exhibitionism so that a few hundred people can put their perversions on display for the world. Are there enough healthy, heterosexual people out there, who marching opposite them, not shouting, not throwing things (we don’t need a parade to do this), perhaps holding hands with their partners, to show that the love of the opposite sex is worth more?\nOn June 26, Hungary’s primary right-wing extremist website, Kuruc.info, published a list of gay bars, cafés, saunas, guest houses and hotels in Budapest. This was an ominous development, since beginning in December 2007 a group called the Arrows of the Hungarians National Liberation Army (Magyarok Nyilai Nemzeti Felszabadító Hadsereg) had firebombed several residences and other locations implicitly identified as targets on the website. Early the following morning, a Molotov cocktail was thrown into the entry of the gay-frequented Action Bar in Budapest, while on the morning of July 2, four Molotov cocktails were tossed into one of the city's sauna Gay bathhouse in Budapest, slightly injuring one of the establishment’s employees. On July 3, Kuruc.info reported on the latter firebombing under the title Cleansing Fire Licks Another Mini Sodom in which the website noted that \"Incidentally, we drew the attention of our readers to the sauna, just in case they wanted a little hot air.\" Though the Arrows of the Hungarians did not claim responsibility for the firebombings as the organization had done in previous cases, usually publishing video recordings of the attacks, Kuruc.info asked the largely rhetorical question following the assault on the Action Bar \"has the Arrows of the Hungarians National Liberation Army struck again?\" Kuruc.info further prepared its readers for the gay parade with the publication of detailed instructions, including pictures, two days before the event, on how to fill eggs with dye for throwing at the marchers in the procession.\n\nTomcat, meanwhile, began the process of organizing his heterosexual counter-procession, though he was first compelled to explain how it was that he had actually marched in the 2004 Gay Dignity Procession:\n. . . I participated carrying a \"NOT ME\" sign, though I did not want to eliminate or throw things at anybody. In fact, I found the events that took place there to be absolutely acceptable... Yes, I observed the 2004 queer parade from the inside. I also took photos and chatted with the queers. I met among them some old buddies as well. And I still maintain that there was no problem with that parade. But I also maintain that now, in 2008, go ahead and bombard them with all sorts of stuff and eradicate their organizers. . . In 2004, and earlier I think, there were neither fags running around half naked, nor pink-Bible-licking obscenities, nor rump rummagers jumping all over each other in public... However, one year later the Pride had totally changed and was not simply a party for queers. Politics had got hold of it by that time, the lackey media did the job of vilifying the \"homophobes,\" and the whole thing degenerated into an unprincipled advertisement for wild-liberal values... The standard has been sinking ever since. It is no accident that fewer and fewer normal homos support the parade... With regard to my allegedly boundless homophobia, it is enough to note that Bomb Factory has a gay editor as well. He doesn’t make any particular secret out of it. And I have several gay friends and acquaintances besides him as well. None of them will be there [at the gay parade] on Saturday. Surely they are \"far-right extremists\" too.\nOn July 1, Tomcat summoned his so-called \"factory dwellers\" to prepare for the Bomb Factory counter-procession:\nThere are only a couple of days left until the Saturday street battles, so it is time that we began getting ready. Of course, we would not for the world harm those dear homosexual people, who want to truck down the entire length of Andrássy Avenue, but let’s at least show them that we are here on this world as well... We welcome all our healthy, heterosexual friends and also those homos who condemn those lunatics dressed in their disgusting garb and kindly decline to have these people represent them. Our procession will travel along the same route as that of the queers, and we will proceed down Andrássy Avenue opposite them. We won’t yell, we won’t throw things, we won’t murder—the Kuruc people will do that in our place.\nAnd finally, on the night before the parade, Tomcat issued a last reminder:\nYou haven’t forgotten have you? ... We welcome everybody, and bring your partners with you. Those who would like to beat up queers can join Budaházy’s group, though I don’t see a very good opportunity to do this with so many cops around... Our demonstration will not be violent, we aren’t going to throw things or fight. Of course, it is still possible to thwart the queer parade. A kind Bomb Factory dweller is organizing an egg-throwing team. Those interested should contact...\nThe far-right Movement for a Better Hungary (Jobbik), which had led efforts to organize demonstrations against previous Budapest Gay Dignity Processions, remained inactive with regard to the 2008 parade until the morning of the event, when the party published the following communiqué on its website:\nBan the Queer Procession from Budapest!\nThe instigators motivated in the force field of the extreme-liberal SZDSZ are marching on the streets to demonstrate in favor of their deviant views this year as well... We inform the misguided people preparing to take to the streets: you can still turn back before you collide the walls of awakening and organizing social resistance!\n\nThere is currently a government-inspired show-like trial taking place against the Hungarian Guard [Magyar Gárda], while liberals and left-wingers within several local councils have initiated the prohibition of this charitable organization from their territory, including Budapest. At the same time, the police, in conformity with [Budapest Mayor] Gábor Demszky’s expectations, chose to review their original decision and permitted the initially banned homosexual event...\n\nWe request that the self-defined Christian-conservative MDF and Fidesz-KDNP not distance themselves from Jobbik and the Hungarian Guard, but from the true extremists. We urge them to read the Old Testament, Leviticus 20:13: \"If a man lies with a man as one lies with a woman, both of them have done what is detestable. They must be put to death; their blood will be on their own heads.\"\nThe BRFK had good reason to suspect, as the political daily Népszabadság reported on June 25, that \"marchers would be exposed to more and increasingly brutal attacks than last year.\" All of Hungary's main right-wing extremist leaders, organizations and media—Budaházy, Torockai, Tomcat, the Hungarian Self-Defense Movement, the Hungarian National Committee Jobbik, ostensibly the Arrows of the Hungarians Liberation Army, Kuruc.info, Bombagyár, Holy Crown Radio (Szent Korona Rádió), Barikád.hu—had rallied with an exceptional degree of unity and purpose behind the cause of \"defending the capital\" against the \"pederast horde.\" (Already in June, the main pages of the Kuruc.info and the Hungarian Self-Defense Movement websites had displayed countdown clocks showing the number of days, hours, minutes and seconds until the start of the 2008 Budapest gay parade.) Far-right attacks on gay parades held the previous weekend in Brno Czech Republic and Sofia, Bulgaria, both of which resulted in a considerable number of arrests, were also a powerful portent of what was likely to take place at the 13th Budapest Gay Dignity Procession.\n\nAt the parade, as police helicopters hovered overhead, protesters broke down the tall metal fences surrounding the parade's endpoint at Heroes' Square. They threw eggs, bottles, rocks, and firecrackers at the marchers, and cobblestones and gasoline bombs at police. At least 10 people were injured, including two policemen, and three media trucks were damaged; they hit, among others, liberal MP Gabor Horn, and broke the window of the police car in which Hungarian Socialist Party MEP Katalin Levai was riding with Gábor Szetey, the first out gay member of Hungary's government. Riot police dispersed the protesters using tear gas and water cannons. A total of 45 to 49 people were arrested. The police protection of the parade had an estimated cost of 500 000 dollars (100 million HUF) for the protection of ~200 gay demonstrators witch became an unusually high cost per person in Hungary.\n\nThe police kept protestors, but also other onlookers and well-wishers, one block away from Andrássy Road, so that the march had no contact to the public, although it was extensively covered by television. An infiltrator attempted to disrupt the march by bursting balloons, but was frightened away by booing.\n\nHowever, some protestors threw stones at the police and burned the rainbow flag used by the organisers of the parade.\n\n"}
{"id": "4145470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4145470", "title": "Calico Captive", "text": "Calico Captive\n\nCalico Captive is Elizabeth George Speare's first historical fiction children's novel. It was inspired by the true story of Susanna Willard Johnson (1730–1810) who, along with her family and younger sister, were kidnapped in an Abenakis Indian raid on Charlestown, New Hampshire in August 1754.\n\nThe main events in \"Calico Captive\", which occurred on the brink of the French and Indian War, were taken from Johnson's narrative diary \"A Narrative of the Captivity of Mrs. Johnson\", which was first published in 1796. \"Calico Captive\" is told through the eyes of Miriam, Johnson's younger sister, and her imagined adventures.\n\nIn August 1754 Miriam Willard, along with her older sister Susanna, her sister's husband James Johnson, and their three children; two-year-old Polly, four-year-old Susanna, and six-year-old Sylvanus, are kidnapped from Number Four, a fort in Charlestown. Miriam and her family are forced to march north by their Indian captors, never knowing whether they will be killed or taken into slavery.\n\nThroughout the journey Miriam finds she cannot keep her mind off Phineas Whitney, her sweetheart planning to attend Harvard College. On the way north Susanna gives birth to a girl and names the infant Captive. The rugged trail is made far more difficult for Miriam by the miserable crying of Captive, the damp cold and hunger, and the sight of her exhausted sister. Fortunately, a horse named Scoggins is captured for Susanna so that she does not have to walk and carry the infant. Eventually the group reaches the Indian village where, upon surviving a half-hearted gauntlet while being forced to dance and sing, they are adopted into the tribe.\n\nAfter many months the Indian tribe’s Sachem decides to sell his English captives to the French in Montréal, Quebec. However, Susanna's master forces her to stay behind and Sylvanus, who has taken a liking to the Indian culture, willingly chooses to go on a hunting trip with the Indians and then stays at a different Indian village. Upon arriving in Montréal Miriam finds to her horror that they are all to be privately purchased off to separate owners and held on ransom. James is thrown in jail for a short time but is finally forced to retrieve money from the English governor to pay for his family’s release. Polly captures the interest of the mayor's wife, who is unable to have a child of her own, while little Susanna is sold to another French household and Miriam meets the prominent Du Quesne family.\n\nAlthough working as a servant, Miriam quickly finds herself living a life she has never imagined. She meets an amiable French girl named Hortense and the two quickly become friends. One day Miriam is asked by Madame Du Quesne to teach her daughter, Felicité, to read and write proper English. Miriam finds she is intrigued by Felicité’s friendliness and wealthy lifestyle. Meanwhile, James makes a petition to the French governor and is allowed to return to English territory and ask for money and a passport.\n\nSusanna is eventually released by her Indian captors and joins Miriam. Meanwhile James goes to Boston to get money in order to buy the liberty of the rest of his family. The two sisters are invited by Felicité to join her at a ball wherein Miriam unintentionally draws the attention of Pierre Laroche, a grandson of a wealthy nobleman. Miriam dances with the young man, which angers and embarrasses Felicité, who had her heart set on marrying Pierre. The Du Quesne family, feeling disgraced and insulted and because they believe James broke his bond and escaped from captivity, throws out Miriam and Susanna.\n\nAfter several hours in the snowy streets Hortense finds the two and informs them they can stay with her family. Miriam realizes that the Hortense family cannot support three more occupants and conjures a plan to make some money. She decides to use her talent for dressmaking to craft a fashionable dress for Madame Du Quesne and Felicité. The plan works, although she is told to keep her services a secret. However, the governor’s wife, Marquise De Vaundreuil, finds out Miriam had designed the Du Quesne dresses and hires her.\n\nWhen James finally returns the French governor has been replaced. The new authority refuses to recognize the agreement. Worse yet, Polly, who was unable to adjust to her new family, runs away and is eventually allowed to stay with her mother. Instead of earning their freedom Susanna, James, Polly and Captive are thrown in jail. Miriam, as a dressmaker for a notable family, is spared jail time.\n\nMiriam eventually succeeds in gathering her courage and asks Marquise De Vaundreuil about her relatives. Marquise De Vaundreuil promises she will talk with her husband. Meanwhile, Pierre asks Miriam to marry him although, after much consideration, she realizes she truly does not love him.\n\nMarquise De Vaundreuil keeps her promise to speak with her husband and eventually Miriam, Susanna, James, Polly and Captive are released from prison. They board a small sailing vessel to cross the Atlantic to Plymouth, England and from there they sail back to America, finally as free people. Two years later Sylvanus is brought home by a redeemed Indian captive. Another redeemed prisoner from Montréal brings home little Susanna. Phineas Whitney, after graduating from Harvard, marries Miriam.\n"}
{"id": "10403211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10403211", "title": "Case (goods)", "text": "Case (goods)\n\nA case of some merchandise is a collection of items packaged together. A case is not a strict unit of measure. For consumer foodstuffs such as canned goods, soda, cereal, and such, a case is typically 24 items, however cases may range from 12 to 36, typically in multiples of six. For larger bottles such as gallon jugs, a case is typically 4. \n\n\nThe term \"case binding\" in the book manufacturing industry refers to a collection of pages contained in a \"case\" which is attached to it. (There are also cases for books e.g. slipcases which merely enclose a book.) The original \"case\" is often now called simply the \"binding\", although the integrated manufacturing process still uses the term \"case\" to refer to the hard cover and spine.\n\n"}
{"id": "58554195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58554195", "title": "Chitti (character)", "text": "Chitti (character)\n\nChitti is a fictional character and the primary protagonist and antagonist of the films Enthiran and 2.0. The character was portrayed by Rajinikanth in \"Enthiran\", a non-canon cameo in \"Ra.One\", and in \"2.0\". Chitti was created and written by S. Shankar.\n\nThe visual appearance of Chitti was based on the G.I. Joe action figures. For Chitti's 2.0 version look, its hair was spiked and brown coloured lenses were used for its eyes, whereas for its \"good robot\" look, green coloured lenses were used. The wig used for Chitti's 2.0 look had a silver streak in the middle, made out of Yak hair, while its leather jacket was designed by Vogt. To make Vaseegaran look mature, the team made Rajinikanth sport an Oakley beard. Suits made of copper were used for Chitti's costumes.\n\nChitti is described by Vaseegaran as an advanced \"andro-humanoid\" robot. Over his metallic body, he sports synthetic inorganic skin molded after Vaseegaran himself. He is designed with a speed capacity of 1 Terahertz (Hz) and a memory capacity of 1 Zettabyte.\n\nInitially, Chitti has been programmed with almost all the existing world knowledge managed to put in computable terms in his CPU, thus he is knowledgeable and proficient in all forms of academia, martial arts, communication, creative outlets, athletic skills, and scientific ingenuity. \nUnderneath his synthetic skin, he is fire, water, and acid-resistant. \n\nIn his original form, he is partially resistant to severe damage such as gunshots, though he can still be damaged or destroyed by properly aimed and adequately forceful attacks such as being chopped with an axe in the joints. Severe electrocution can also overload short-circuit him. As long as his CPU head is still functioning, Chitti is able to repair or fix back his minor parts such as eyes. However, for large damage such as limbs being chopped off, he can only put them back in place and function at a much slower speed.\n\nChitti's eyes are able to not only see and scan his surroundings to extremely acute detail, including X-ray vision, but they can also serve as high-definition projectors. His eyes also allow him to pick up additional skills within seconds. He can also perform virtual phone calls, with displaying his caller or receiver through his eyes as a hologram. However, on downside, the eyes get bleached when exposed to flash light.\n\nChitti is able to adhere to metal objects through his selective magnetism. This allows him to both render his foes weaponless, as well as fly for a certain distance to any nearby metallic structure. He is physically able to exert superhuman speed, agility and strength; he is at least able to lift with ease a convertible car, and even pull two trucks towards himself while they are in motion. In the second half of \"Enthiran\" as well as in \"2.0\", he designs and equips himself with a \"handgun\", which is basically a retractable firearm within his right hand.\n\nChitti's only known weaknesses are flashing lights, which temporarily distort his sight, and his susceptibility to battery drainage. However, in the case of the latter, he just needs to absorb a bare minimum amount of electric power to recharge himself in a matter of seconds.\n\nIn the first film, \"Enthiran\", Chitti (played by Rajnikanth) is an android robot created by Dr. Vaseegaran, (also played by Rajinikanth). Dr. Vaseegaran, who is specialised in robotics, created Chitti after a decade of intensive research. Chitti was first created without emotions however in order for the robot to understand human behaviour, Vaseegaran taught the robot about them. But then the robot fell in love with the scientist's fiancée, Sana (played by Aishwarya Rai) and thus it caused conflict between them. Angered by the robot, Vaseegaran literally chopped the robot into pieces. He was found by Dr. Bohra (played by Danny Denzongpa) and upgrade into 2.0 because of a red chip. He converts it into a ruthless killer and turned into an evil destructive killing machine and killed Bohra. He then went after Vaseegaran and Sana and crashed their wedding. He showed numerous other powerful abilities including shape shifting as well as duplicating. He caused so much damage and destruction to the city. However, Vaseegaran managed to defeat and stop Chitti. Since he caused so much damage and destruction to the city, he was de-activated and dismantled. His body parts were then displayed in the museum in the year 2030 as the most advanced humanoid robot ever built.\n\nChitti reappeared in the film \"Ra.One\" in a special appearance and communicated with G.One (played by Shah Rukh Khan) with Rajnikanth reprising his role. This appearance is non-canon, meaning both this and Chitti's film franchise don't share the same continuity.\n\nIn the 2018 film \"2.0\" with Rajnikanth reprising his role one more time, Chitti is forced to be reassembled by Dr. Vaseegaran and the Indian Army in order to stop the antagonist, Fifth force, which is controlled by Pakshi Rajan, an Ornithologist (played by Akshay Kumar).But Chitti is defeated and destroyed in his original form by the antagonist, which leads his CPU head to being rebooted in another advanced mechanical body, identifying himself as Chitti reloaded version '2.0', and will also fall in love with his female counterpart, the super-android Nila (played by Amy Jackson), also created by Vaseegaran. Alongside Chitti, there is another robot created known as \"Kutty Chitti\" (3.0) which is a microbot capable of shape-shifting.\n"}
{"id": "47733606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47733606", "title": "Collections management system", "text": "Collections management system\n\nA Collections Management System (CMS), sometimes called a Collections Information System, is software used by the collections staff of a collecting institution or by individual private collectors and collecting hobbyists or enthusiasts. Collecting institutions are primarily museums and archives and cover a very broad range from huge, international institutions, to very small or niche-specialty institutions such as local historical museums and preservation societies. Secondarily, libraries and galleries are also collecting institutions. Collections Management Systems (CMSs) allow individuals or collecting institutions to organize, control, and manage their collections' objects by “tracking all information related to and about” those objects. In larger institutions, the CMS may be used by collections staff such as registrars, collections managers, and curators to record information such as object locations, provenance, curatorial information, conservation reports, professional appraisals, and exhibition histories. All of this recorded information is then also accessed and used by other institutional departments such as “education, membership, accounting, and administration.\" \n\nThough early Collections Management Systems were cataloging databases, essentially digital versions of card catalogs, more recent and advanced systems are being used to improve communication between museum staff and to automate and manage collections-based tasks and workflows. Collections Management Systems are also used to provide access to information about an institution's collections and objects to academic researchers, institutional volunteers, and the public, increasingly through online methods.\n\nAmong the many commercially-produced Collections Management Systems are Archivists' Toolkit, Argus, Axiell's Collections Management Software, Gallery Systems’ The Museum System (TMS) and EmbARK products, PastPerfect Museum Software, and Re:discovery Software's Proficio. Some institutions, particularly smaller museums, have customized existing database management systems and relational database software such as FileMaker Pro and Microsoft Access to create homegrown Collections Management Systems. A recent trend has been the growing number of innovative web browser-based, cloud-based, and mobile-enabled systems and applications, such as CatalogIt. CollectionSpace— developed by multiple institutions led by the Museum of the Moving Image in New York — and CollectiveAccess— developed by Whirl-i-Gig— are free, open-source, and web-based systems. Commercial web-based systems include Axiell Collections, CatalogIt, Vernon Systems’ eHive, and zetcom’s MuseumPlus. Cloud-based systems include CatalogIt, CollectorSystems, Eloquent Museum, SKINsoft's S-museum and UniqueCollection.org. Mobile enabled systems, which allow secure access to all of the Collections Management System's capabilities via smartphone and tablet, in addition to desk/laptop computers, include CatalogIt. \n\nEver since machine-readable standards were developed for libraries in the 1960s, museums have had an interest in utilizing computers to record information about their collections. However, museums have very different needs from libraries; while bibliographic information about a library collection object is usually static, museum records are ever-changing because of the continuous need for new information about museum objects to be added to the records. As early as 1967, the Museum Computer Network (MCN), an informal group of New York museums, attempted to create a collections management database called GRIPHOS, and at a Metropolitan Museum of Art and IBM conference in 1968, speakers discussed current and proposed projects to automate collections management. In an effort to coordinate research into developing these systems, professional associations such as the Museum Data Bank Coordinating Committee (MDBCC), formed in 1972, were created to disseminate information about computers and databases to museums interested implementing computerized collections systems. During the 1980s, Collections Management Systems became more advanced with the rise of relational databases that “[relate] each piece of data to every other piece,\" and during this time some of today’s popular systems were originally developed for specific institutions “based on generic relational databases” — such as Gallery Systems' The Museum System for the Metropolitan Museum of Art and Re:discovery Software's Proficio for the Thomas Jefferson Foundation’s Monticello — before being released as commercial products. During the 1990s, with computers becoming faster and cheaper and with the rise of the Internet, collections management software became much more sophisticated, able to “present images, sort information in any one of a myriad of configurations, record exhibition information, track locations, and interface with a museum Website.\"\n\nThough the goal during the 1960s was to use computers for collections record-keeping for purposes of accountability, MCN Executive Director Everett Ellin warned that museum professionals should include public access as a goal because it would “not be worth the effort if museums only create a glorified record-keeping system.\" Collections Management Systems have become crucial tools in increasing public access to collections information, expanding the types of information that are recorded. What was once “a simple tool for collections care and inventory” has become “a robust and powerful instrument for saving all information about museum objects,\" including interpretive material, digital objects, and digital surrogates. Since some Collections Management Systems now incorporate Digital Asset Management and content information storage, many museum professionals have started to use the acronym CMS to stand for “Content Management System.\"\n\nIn 1997, art historian and museum information studies consultant Robert A. Baron outlined the requirements for Collections Management Systems, not as a list of the kinds of collections object information that should be recorded, but rather as a list of collections activities such as administration, loan, exhibition, preservation, and retrieval, tasks that museums had been responsible for long before the invention of computers, and many modern Collections Management Systems go beyond cataloging by aiding in the management of these processes and workflows. The Canadian Heritage Information Network (CHIN) Collections Management Software Criteria Checklist (CMSCC), which aims to be a comprehensive list of the kinds of information that a museum may want to record in a CMS, organizes that list by processes and actions rather than type of information. The checklist “outlines a number of features commonly included in a commercial CMS, which can assist a museum in determining which features have priority.”\n\nManaging and documenting information and tasks related to objects entering the museum, including acquisition or loan records, receipts, record of the reason for the deposit of the object, and record of the object’s return to its owner.\n\nThe management and documentation of objects added to the institution’s collection, including accession numbers, catalog numbers, object name or title, acquisition date, acquisition method, and transfer of title. There are many different accession numbering systems, and a CMS should allow an institution to use its existing numbering system.\n\nIdentification of objects for which the institution has a legal responsibility, including loaned objects and objects that have not been accessioned. Information recorded includes object location and status.\n\nRecords of an object’s current and past locations within the institution's premises so that it can be located, including dates of movement and authorizations for movement.\n\nInformation that describes and identifies objects, including creator/maker/artist, date(s) of creation, place of creation, provenance, object history, research on the object, and connections to other objects.\n\nThe management of information about an object’s conservation “from a curatorial and collections management perspective,\" including conservation requests, examination records, condition reports, records of preventative actions, and treatment histories.\n\nManagement of information about potential threats to collections objects, including documentation of specific threats, records of preventative measures, disaster plans and procedures, and emergency contacts.\n\nDocumentation of insurance needs for objects for which the institution is responsible (included loaned objects) as well as the monetary value of objects for insurance purposes. This may include the names and contact information of appraisers as well as appraisal history.\n\nManagement of an object’s exhibition or display, including exhibition history and documentation of research done on an object for an exhibition. More advanced Collections Management Systems may have the ability to present information from the system on a museum’s website or in an online exhibit.\n\nManagement of objects leaving the institution’s premises and being transferred to a different location, including location information, packing notes, crate dimensions, authorizations, customs information and documenting the means of transportation (including courier information).\n\nManaging the temporary transfer of responsibility of an object from the museum to another institution or vice versa, including loan agreements, loan history, records of costs and payments, packing lists, and records of overdue loans.\n\nManagement and documentation of objects being deaccessioned and leaving the institution’s collection, either by transfer, sale, exchange, or destruction/loss, including transfer of title, records of approval, and reason for disposal.\n\nA Collections Management System should be able to store data, edit data, delete data, access data through queries, sort data, and output data in the form of reports. Data is stored in the form of tables and is entered into the system (and sometimes edited) using forms. Queries are searches that help retrieve specific data from the system, and reports “are the means by which the results of a query are displayed or printed.\"\n\nAn efficient CMS, like a good relational database, should not have duplicate records and should not require that the same information be recorded in more than one place in the system. At the same time, the system should be flexible enough to accommodate more data as the collections expand. The user must also understand that not all information must be entered into a Collections Management System; for example, complex information such as complicated dimensions and measurements. Some institutions may not want to record confidential information such as private donor information in a CMS and instead keep it in a manual file or a separate, secure digital file, with pointers to the file’s location recorded in the CMS. However, others argue that such confidential information should be recorded in the CMS to protect the information in the event of a disaster where manual files may be destroyed.\n\nA CMS should have \"a built in backup and recovery process\" to protect data against not only equipment failure and disaster but also human error, which may result in loss or corruption of data. Redundant copies of the information should be stored in multiple locations, and the backup process may be automated.\n\nBecause a computerized system “demands a much greater degree of precision in the use of language for cataloging and data retrieval than does a manual system,” data and metadata standards should be applied in a Collections Management System. Data standards provide rules for how information is entered into the system, and data that has been entered into the system in a consistent manner allows for more accurate and precise information retrieval and for easier exchange of data between different systems.\n\nThe three types of data standards are structure, content, and value:\n\nWhile most of these data standards apply to the cataloging and description of cultural objects, efforts are also being made to create data standards for natural history collections. Based on Dublin Core, the Darwin Core standard is a data structure standard for biodiversity information whose “glossary of terms” are the “fields” and “elements” needed to catalog biological and natural history specimens and samples.\n\nRecognizing the importance of data standards to many users, some developers advertise that their Collections Management Systems are compliant with certain standards. For example, the Adlib Museum CMS is “certified as SPECTRUM compliant by the Collections Trust” and “also incorporates other international standards such as the ‘CIDOC’ guidelines and Getty ‘Object ID.’”\n\nA Collections Management System should have security measures that “ensure that only authorized persons are able to enter, edit, or view” information contained in the system. However, there is a growing demand for public access to some of the collections and object information contained in the CMS, which “helps fulfill a museum's mission to educate the public and prove that the objects held in public trust are used to public benefit” while also encouraging collections staff to “support basic collection stewardship” by ensuring that information about the object is accurate before being made publicly accessible. The system should allow the public to be able to make and refine searches of publicly accessible information in the system.\n\nA CMS should also allow collections staff to manage information on reproduction rights of the objects for which the institution is responsible, including type of copyright scheme being applied (for example, U.S. copyright or Creative Commons license), copyright ownership, and digital watermarks.\n\nSince every museum has different needs, a museum should make a needs assessment before selecting a Collections Management System. The museum should determine what collections processes it needs the system to manage. The museum should also identify who will be using the system and consider such factors as collection size (both present and future), staff technology skills, and budget/pricing. Another recommendation is to map out both the short- and long-term goals for the new CMS and then determine how the system can help increase the museum's efficiencies. \n\nCollections Management Systems have their origins in cataloging and registration, and consequently, most systems manage information and records “from a curatorial and collections management perspective.\" Conservation information in these systems is often limited to condition reporting and documentation of treatment history. While some advanced systems allow registrars to manage workflow tasks such as approvals and receipts, most systems are unable to manage conservation workflows. Many conservators also need a system that can not only store and manage conservation documentation but also easily share that information with other conservators and institutions.\n\nMany Collections Management System developers have responded to this need by adding requested conservation features to their products. For example, in 2009, Gallery Systems, the developer of The Museum System (TMS), formed a consortium of stakeholders called the Conservation Working Group, to create a set of features to add to the conservation module of TMS.\n\nSome conservators and institutions have taken a different approach, customizing existing software so that the system can manage conservation workflows. For example, at the Smithsonian National Postal Museum in 2012, former collections database administrator Kate Collen modified The Museum Systems’ conservation module so that it could manage object treatment processes, including assigning roles and responsibilities to multiple staff, ordering and prioritizing conservation tasks and treatments, separating treatment images from object images, automating registrar and lender approvals for treatments, and even tracking staff hours. This was achieved by renaming and remapping fields in the existing system, in some cases using fields for different purposes than originally intended by the software developer.\n\nSome software developers have been developing standalone systems specifically for the purpose of managing conservation information and tasks. Since 2000, Inventive Software Solutions has been developing the Conservation Tracker System for the Philadelphia Museum of Art to be “a comprehensive digital management tool for art conservation documentation.” Developed since 2009 as a program of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, ConservationSpace is a project “to develop an open-source software application that will address a core need of the conservation community for a shared solution to the problem of documentation management.” In 2013, Gallery Systems decided that adding incremental conservation features to The Museum System was no longer sufficient to meet the needs of conservators and began to develop a standalone web-based system to manage conservation processes called TMS Conservation Studio, which was released in summer of 2015.\n"}
{"id": "19822161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19822161", "title": "Common Turkic languages", "text": "Common Turkic languages\n\nCommon Turkic or Shaz Turkic is a taxon in some of the classifications of the Turkic languages which includes all languages except the Oghur languages. Lars Johanson's proposal contains the following subgroups: \n\n\nIn that classification scheme, Common Turkic is opposed to Oghur Turkic (Lir-Turkic). The Common Turkic languages are characterized by sound correspondences such as Common Turkic \"š\" versus Oghuric \"l\" and Common Turkic \"z\" versus Oghuric \"r\".\n\nIn other classification schemes (such as Alexander Samoylovich and Nikolay Baskakov), the breakdown is different.\n"}
{"id": "1776566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1776566", "title": "Cong (vessel)", "text": "Cong (vessel)\n\nA cong () is a form of ancient Chinese jade artifact. It was later also used in ceramics. \n\nThe earliest \"cong\" were produced by the Liangzhu culture (3400-2250 BC); later examples date mainly from the Shang and Zhou dynasties.\n\nInterest in the jade shape developed during the 12th-13th century Song dynasty. The shape continued to be used in ceramic and metalwork for centuries. \n\nIn form, a \"cong\" is a tube with a circular inner section and squarish outer section. The outer surface is divided vertically or horizontally such that the whole defines a hollow cylinder embedded in a partial rectangular block. Proportions vary - a \"cong\" may be squat or taller than it is wide. The outer faces are sometimes decorated with mask-like faces, which may be related to the \"taotie\" designs found on later bronze vessels.\n\nAlthough generally considered to be a ritual object of some sort, the original function and meaning of the \"cong\" are unknown. Later writings speak of the \"cong\" as symbolizing the earth, while the \"bi\" represents the heavens. The square represents the earth and a circle represents the heavens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6478025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6478025", "title": "Counterpart (TV series)", "text": "Counterpart (TV series)\n\nCounterpart is an American science fiction thriller television series created by Justin Marks on the premium cable network Starz. It has been picked up for two 10-episode seasons. The first episode was directed by Morten Tyldum. The premiere episode first aired on December 10, 2017. It stars Academy Award–winning actor J. K. Simmons in a dual role.\n\nIn February 2018, Starz announced that production had begun in Berlin on the second season. The 10-episode second season is scheduled to premiere on December 9, 2018.\n\nHoward Silk has been working for a United Nations agency based in Berlin for thirty years; however, his rank is too low for him to be told what his work really involves. In fact, the agency oversees a crossing point to a parallel Earth (the \"Prime world\"), a copy of Silk's world, which was created by East German scientists in 1987, and which has been diverging ever since. \n\nSilk's \"other\" self, his counterpart from the Prime world, is, among other things, a field agent who regularly makes crossings to Silk's world (the \"Alpha world\") to retrieve \"others\" who have gone rogue. Factional in-fighting in the agency in the Prime world spills over to the Alpha world, endangering Silk and his comatose wife, Emily.\n\n\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\nThe series was ordered in April 2015 with J. K. Simmons announced to star. Production began in December 2016 in Los Angeles, and it was announced that the series would be filmed in additional locations across the U.S. and Europe in 2017, including Berlin, where the series is set, and in Potsdam at Babelsberg Studio, which is co-producing the series. Amy Berg served as showrunner, an executive producer and a writer for the first season, but departed after the season completed filming, in a mutual decision.\n\nIn February 2018, Betty Gabriel was announced as joining the cast as Naya Temple, a former FBI agent.\n\n\"Counterpart\" has been well received by critics. The first season has a \"certified fresh\" 100% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes with an average rating 8.41 out of 10 based on 40 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Tense and gripping, \"Counterpart\" is an absorbing thrill-fest led by J. K. Simmons' multi-faceted dual lead performance.\" On Metacritic, the first season has a score of 76 out of 100 based on 15 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nThe first season was released on Blu-ray and DVD on July 31, 2018. The set includes all 10 episodes plus two behind-the-scenes featurettes.\n"}
{"id": "30852378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30852378", "title": "Da Da Dam", "text": "Da Da Dam\n\n\"Da Da Dam\" is a ballad type song by Finnish singer Paradise Oskar and it is the Finnish entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 2011, qualifying for the final. \"Da Da Dam\" came 21st in the final with 57 points. The song tells a story of a boy named Peter who decides to make a stand to try to save the planet, gets universally ignored, but continues to persevere. Both the lyrics and music are by the singer himself. It is the first single from his debut album \"Sunday Songs\".\n\nThe entry was performed in the first semifinal in the tenth position, following Eldrine from Georgia with \"One More Day\" and preceding Malta's Glen Vella with One Life. Oskar is accompanied by his own guitar.\n\nThe music video for the song was uploaded to YouTube on April 20, 2011.\n\n\"Da Da Dam\" made its first chart appearance debuting at number 6 on the Finnish Singles Chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "921136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=921136", "title": "Derrick de Kerckhove", "text": "Derrick de Kerckhove\n\nDerrick de Kerckhove (born 1944) is the author of \"The Skin of Culture\" and \"Connected Intelligence\" and Professor in the Department of French at the University of Toronto, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. He was the Director of the McLuhan Program in Culture and Technology from 1983 until 2008.\n\nIn January 2007, he returned to Italy for the project and Fellowship \"Rientro dei cervelli\", in the Faculty of Sociology at the University of Naples Federico II where he teaches \"Sociologia della cultura digitale\" and \"Marketing e nuovi media\". He was invited to return to the Library of Congress for another engagement in the Spring of 2008. He is research supervisor for the PhD Planetary Collegium M-node directed by Francesco Monico.\nSince 2008 he oversees global art projects for Solstizio, co-founded by the artist Giuseppe Stampone.\n\nIn July 2015 with Fred Forest, Maurice Benayoun, Tom Klinkowstein and other art people, thinkers and philosophers, he participated to Natan Karczmar's seminar ArtComTec.\n\nDe Kerckhove received his Ph.D in French Language and Literature from the University of Toronto in 1975 and a Doctorat du 3e cycle in Sociology of Art from the University of Tours (France) in 1979. He was an associate of the Centre for Culture and Technology from 1972 to 1980, and worked with Marshall McLuhan for over ten years as translator, assistant and co-author.\n\nHe edited \"Understanding 1984\" (UNESCO, 1984) and co-edited with Amilcare Iannucci, \"McLuhan e la metamorfosi dell'uomo\" (Bulzoni, 1984) two collections of essays on McLuhan, culture, technology and biology. He also co-edited with Charles Lumsden \"The Alphabet and the Brain\" (Springer Verlag, 1988), a book which scientifically assesses the impact of the Western alphabet on the physiology and the psychology of human cognition. Another publication, \"La civilisation vidéo-chrétienne\" appeared in France in December 1990 and in Italy the following year (Feltrinelli, 1991).\n\n\"Brainframes: Technology, Mind and Business\" (Bosch & Keuning, 1991) addresses the differences between the effects of television, computers and hypermedia on corporate culture, business practices and economic markets. \"The Skin of Culture\" (Somerville Press, 1995) is a collection of essays on the new electronic reality which stayed on Canadian best-sellers lists for several months. It was translated into a dozen languages including Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Polish and Slovenian.\n\n\"Connected Intelligence\" (Somerville, 1997) introduced his research on new media and cognition. His latest book, \"The Architecture of Intelligence\", was first issued in Dutch in December 2000, and in English (June 2001), Italian and German in September 2001. It was later translated into Spanish, Portuguese and Japanese. He collaborated with Mark Federman on \"McLuhan for Managers: New Tools for New Thinking\", published in September 2003. De Kerckhove is also contracted to work on a book about the history of stage performance from early Greek theatre to modern Opera, in collaboration with Francesco Monico.\n\n\"The Point of Being\" co-edited with Cristina Miranda de Almeida. This book explores the research question: what are the psycho-physiological dimensions of the ways people experience their presence in the world and the world’s presence in them? There is in all chapters an invitation to experience a shift of perception. An embodied sensation of the world and a re-sensorialization of the environment are described to complement the visually-biased perspective with a renewed sense of humans’ relationship to their spatial and material surrounding. As such, this book presents the topological reunion of sensation and cognition, of sense and sensibility and of body, self and world. The perception of the \"Point of Being\", to which the various chapters of this book invite the reader, proposes an alternative to the \"Point of View\" inherited from the Renaissance; it offers a way to situate the sense of self through the physical, digital and electronic domains that shape physical, social, cultural, economic and spiritual conditions at the beginning of the twenty-first century. Nine authors explore different ways in which the paradigm of the Point of Being can bridge the interval, the discontinuity, between subjects and objects that began with the diffusion of the phonetic alphabet. The Point of Being is a signpost on that journey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15245727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15245727", "title": "DesignTide", "text": "DesignTide\n\nDesignTide Tokyo was an annual design event held from 2005 until 2012. It was held in the Autumn as part of Tokyo Designers Week and concurrent with 100% Design Tokyo, as part of loosely coordinated design event season.\n\nAfter organization that planned a similar series of events, Tokyo Designers Block, was dissolved after its 2004 events due to financial concerns.\n\nDesignTide was founded in the wake of the dissolution of Tokyo Designers Block, a similar event which ended in 2004 due to financial troubles, with the hope of continuing to support design in Japan. DesignTide's original founders were many of the same people that were involved with Tokyo Designers Block. As a result, it originally followed a similar focus as Tokyo Designers Block, emphasizing designers' creativity over the functional requirements of a trade show. Starting in 2007, DesignTide sought to develop a trade show component to the event to achieve a more equitable balance between design as creative vision and the need to support commercial activity in the field.\n\nIn 2005, DesignTide took place at shops, museums and art galleries throughout Tokyo's design-centric districts, including Aoyama and Harajuku, Daikanyama, Marunouchi and Roppongi.\n\nStarting in 2006, a main exhibition site was added, organized as a design show curated by DesignTide's directors from a pool of applicants. In 2006 the main exhibition took place in a soon-to-be-demolished building in Harajuku; in 2007, in a gymnasium at the National Olympic Stadium; in 2008 and 2009 in the meeting hall of Tokyo Midtown. The main exhibition site eschewed cubicle-shaped booths in favor of unique architectural elements designed in response to each exhibitor space, thus turning the exhibition space itself into work of design.\n\n"}
{"id": "17767843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17767843", "title": "Eberswalde Hoard", "text": "Eberswalde Hoard\n\nThe Eberswalde Hoard or Treasure of Eberswalde ( or ) is a Bronze Age hoard of 81 gold objects with a total weight of . The largest prehistoric assembly of gold objects ever found in Germany, it is considered to be one of the most important finds from the Central European Bronze Age. Today, it is in Russia, as part of the group of artifacts and works of art looted from Germany at the end of the Second World War.\n\nThe hoard was discovered 1 m (3 ft) below the ground surface on May 16, 1913, during excavations for a house within the grounds of a brass factory at Finow (Oberbarnim), part of Eberswalde in Brandenburg. The factory supervisor alerted Carl Schuchhardt, the director of the Prehistoric Department of the Royal Museums at Berlin, who acceded the hoard to that collection.\n\nThe hoard had been deposited in a globular vessel with a lid. In it were eight gold bowls, which contained another 73 gold objects. The bowls were thin-walled chased gold vessels with copious ornamental decoration. The other objects included neck rings, bracelets and 60 wire arm spirals. 55 double spirals were tied into bundles. A gold ingot, a piece of metal shaped like a crucible and two smaller pieces probably represent raw material for the production of such objects. The treasure belongs to the goldsmith known as Villena-type, for its resemblance to the Treasure of Villena.\n\nThe hoard used to be thought to represent the stores of a merchant. More recent research suggests that it was of religious significance. The hoard is dated to the 9th century BC. \n\nAfter the end of the Second World War in 1945, the Eberswalde Hoard disappeared from the Berlin museum, along with the so-called \"Treasure of Priam\". The suspicion that the Red Army might have removed both finds was denied by the Soviets for decades. After Russian president Boris Yeltsin admitted that \"Priam's Treasure\" was in Russian hands, the authorities ceased to explicitly deny that they also held Eberswalde Hoard. In 2004, a reporter from German magazine \"Der Spiegel\" located it in a secret depot within Moscow's Pushkin Museum. Germany has request return of the materials, and the issue has caused tension between the German and Russian governments. Reproductions of the hoard are on display at the Museum für Vor- und Frühgeschichte in Berlin and the Stadt- und Kreismuseum in Eberswalde. The Eberswalde replica is by local goldsmith Eckhard Herrmann.\n\n"}
{"id": "7840804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7840804", "title": "Edmond Roudnitska", "text": "Edmond Roudnitska\n\nEdmond Roudnitska (1905–1996) was a French master perfumer and author. He is known for creating perfumes such as Dior's Eau Sauvage and Diorissimo, and Rochas's Femme. Many of his creations are still in production today. He was the father of perfumer Michel Roudnitska.\nIn 1926, he started his training in perfumery in Grasse. In 1942, he met Thérèse Delveaux, who became his wife. In 1946, he founded Art et Parfum, a private lab for creating perfumes.\n\nDiorissimo, based on lily of the valley, was a notable achievement in the field of perfumery. Unlike rose or jasmine, the smell of lily of the valley cannot be extracted from essential oil of the flower. Roudnitska circumvented the problem by using aroma chemicals like hydroxycitronellal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2550322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2550322", "title": "Gamera vs. Jiger", "text": "Gamera vs. Jiger\n\nIn \"Gamera vs. Jiger\", Gamera has his hands full right from the very beginning. Japan is preparing for Expo '70, to be held in Osaka. Construction of the various buildings and pavilions is well under way. On Wester Island in the Pacific Ocean, a large statue of mysterious origin (called the Devil's Whistle) is located by scientists. Workers from the Expo are interested in returning the statue for display and try to remove it for transport by ship. The removal of the statue is hampered first by a tribal member of the Wester Island people, then by the unexpected arrival of Gamera, who aggressively attempts to prevent the removal of the statue, only to be shot at by the crew instead. The statue is removed from the island successfully after a volcano erupts. Shortly after departing the island, members of the ship's crew begin to fall ill. The statue appears to be the source of the outbreak, as it makes a continuous piercing sound, driving many of the crew members insane. Later analysis reveals the presence of a central shaft that runs nearly the length of the statue top-to-bottom. The position of the opening on the statue is creating the high-pitched \"squeal\" as air passes through it.\n\nAfter the statue is removed, Jiger makes her first appearance and gets Gamera's immediate attention. The first of several fights ensues and Jiger wins by shooting projectile quills from her face. The quills impale Gamera's arms and legs, piercing all the way through and preventing Gamera from withdrawing his limbs into his shell and taking flight. To make matters worse, Gamera is on his back and cannot move. He pulls himself up with his tail using a large rock, then removes the embedded quills from his limbs and is finally able to fly after Jiger.\n\nMeanwhile, Jiger is actively seeking the statue, because it is making a horrible ringing sound that is causing her tremendous pain. Jiger lets nothing impede that hunt as she splits two ships in half and starts tearing through Osaka. Scientists are beside themselves as Jiger displays another weapon: a heat ray that vaporizes not only flesh but entire city blocks. The JSDF does make a token effort to kill the kaiju, but her quills knock down the F-104 Starfighters, ending that involvement.\n\nGamera returns for round two as the fight is witnessed by several children. Gamera knocks Jiger around and has the upper hand until Jiger pulls Gamera to her. Jiger extends a stinger from her tail and inserts the barb into Gamera's chest, laying an egg inside his lung. Gamera staggers away, roaring in agony. Finally, he barely makes it to the bay and his body turns a chalky white color, almost like ice. Gamera is presumed to have been killed at this point as Jiger heads straight to Expo '70. Jiger finally obtains the statue and throws it into the ocean, ending the painful noise.\n\nThe scientists are checking out possible causes of the noise, as it has affected humans, causing temporary insanity. The children convince them to do a medical exam on the comatose Gamera, where it is discovered that there is a dark spot on one of his lungs. One of the scientists served as a zoo director and realises that the spot might not be a fast spreading cancer, but actually a parasitic infant Jiger growing inside Gamera. An operation is needed to remove the threat, so the children take the initiative by taking a walkie talkie and a mini-sub. Communication is established with the kids and they enter Gamera through his open mouth, and after almost going into his stomach, they arrive at the problem lung. The children are able to exit the sub and walk around in the lung. There, they discover the baby.\n\nThe baby looks like a tiny version of its mother, except that instead of shooting quills, it squirts a sticky goo. The baby attacks them, but it has a weakness just like its mother: white noise. The kids discover this is actually a fatal weakness and manage to kill the baby using static from their walkie talkie. They leave Gamera's body and report their findings to the scientists. They rig up large speakers to keep Jiger at bay, as well as figure out that power would have to also be run into Gamera, who seemingly cannot recover on his own. The children make a final trip inside Gamera to hook up a set of power lines directly to his heart.\n\nJiger is kept immobile by the speakers playing the white noise. It is not enough to kill her, but buys enough time for the other plan to get started. Gamera is subjected to high voltage shock before the electrical grid overloads. It is enough that Gamera does revive on his own.\n\nGamera flies over to the World's Fair for the final battle. Jiger tries every weapon she has got, but Gamera has learned from his previous battles with her. After her spears fail to affect him, Jiger then uses her heat ray, the one weapon she has yet to use on him. It does not affect Gamera's shell or even skin (likely due to Gamera's resistance to heat), but the sound it generates threatens to rupture his eardrums. Luckily, Gamera is able to put telephone poles into his ears to protect them from the sound. After trying all her other attacks, Jiger resorts to her tail stinger again, but Gamera is prepared for it this time and uses a building to smash her tail and destroy the stinger. Gamera body-slams Jiger several times from great heights, but Jiger is not affected. However, it buys Gamera the time needed to go into the ocean and retrieve the statue from the ocean floor. Jiger, enraged by the statue's return, attempts to catch the flying Gamera. Gamera taunts Jiger with the statue, who tries in vain to catch Gamera and retrieve it. Gamera finally ends the fight by throwing the statue at Jiger, which embeds itself in Jiger's skull, killing her. Gamera then returns the devil beast's carcass to Wester Island.\n\n\n\"Gamera vs. Jiger\" was the sixth film in the \"Gamera\" series. The American version of the film includes stock footage from \"Gamera vs. Guiron\" and \"Gamera vs. Barugon\".\n\n\"Gamera vs. Jiger\" was released in Japan 21 March 1970. The film was never released theatrically in the United States. It was released directly to television by American International Television in 1970 as \"Gamera vs. Monster X\".\n\nShout! Factory has released the film on September 21, 2010 on DVD as a double feature with \"Gamera vs. Guiron\".\n\nImage Entertainment released the American version of the film in 2004 on DVD as a double feature with \"\".\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1254304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1254304", "title": "Gemonian stairs", "text": "Gemonian stairs\n\nThe Gemonian Stairs (, ) were a flight of steps located in the ancient city of Rome. Nicknamed the Stairs of Mourning, the stairs are infamous in Roman history as a place of execution.\n\nThe steps were situated in the central part of Rome, leading from the Arx of the Capitoline Hill down to the Roman Forum. As viewed from the Forum, they passed down the Tabularium and the Temple of Concord on the left side, and past the Mamertine Prison on the right side. It is believed that the location of the steps roughly coincides with the current Via di San Pietro in Carcere, past the ruins of the Mamertine prison.\n\nIt is believed the stairs were built some time before the rule of Tiberius (14–37), as they were not mentioned by name in any ancient texts that predate this period. Their first use as a place of execution is primarily associated with the paranoid excesses of Tiberius' later reign.\n\nThe condemned were usually strangled before their bodies were bound and thrown down the stairs. Occasionally the corpses of the executed were transferred here for display from other places of execution in Rome. Corpses were usually left to rot on the staircase for extended periods of time in full view of the Forum, scavenged by dogs or other carrion animals, until eventually being thrown into the Tiber.\n\nDeath on the stairs was considered extremely dishonourable and dreadful, yet several senators and even an emperor met their demise here. Among the most famous who were executed on this spot were the prefect of the Praetorian Guard Lucius Aelius Sejanus and the emperor Vitellius. Sejanus was a former confidant of emperor Tiberius who was implicated in a conspiracy in AD 31. According to Cassius Dio, Sejanus was strangled and cast down the Gemonian stairs, where the mob abused his corpse for three days. Soon after, his three children were similarly executed in this place.\n\nVitellius was a Roman general who became the third emperor in the so-called Year of the Four Emperors in AD 69. He succeeded Otho upon his suicide on April 16, but lived to be emperor for only eight months. When his armies were defeated by those of Vespasian, he agreed to surrender but the Praetorian Guard refused to let him leave the city. On the entrance of Vespasian's troops into Rome he was dragged out of his hiding-place, driven to the Gemonian stairs and struck down. His last words were \"Yet I was once your Emperor\".\n\nOn those same stairs, Decebal's head was thrown along with his right hand in 106 A.D.\n\nDuring Republican times, the Tarpeian Rock, a steep cliff at the southern summit of the Capitoline Hill, was used for similar purposes. Murderers and traitors, if convicted by the \"quaestores parricidii\", were flung from the cliff to their deaths. Infants who suffered from significant mental or physical disabilities sometimes suffered the same fate, as they were thought to have been cursed by the gods.\n\n"}
{"id": "46267815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46267815", "title": "German Forum for Art History Paris", "text": "German Forum for Art History Paris\n\nThe German Forum for Art History Paris (Deutsches Forum für Kunstgeschichte (DFK; Centre Allemand d'Histoire de l'Art de Paris; German Center for the History of Art, Paris) is a German research institute specialized in French and German art and currently situated in the Hôtel de Lully in Paris, the former residence of the French composer Jean-Baptiste Lully. It organizes conferences, symposia, and workshops, undertakes research projects, and has published many books on art.\n\nThe DFK was founded in 1997 with German, French, and Swiss colleagues by Thomas W. Gaehtgens. It is supported by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research. Until October 2007, the institution was headed by Gaehtgens, from 2009 to 2014 by and since February 2014 by the current director, . From 2006, the Forum is part of the \"Foundation of German Humanities Institutes Abroad\", which is now called \"Max Weber Foundation of German Humanities Institutes Abroad\".\n\nThe DFK supports research by German scholars on French subjects. It also promotes the research of French scholars on German art and German art history and endeavors to include other European and transatlantic countries and academic disciplines to participate in its research programs.\n\nThe DFK cooperates with the Institut national d'histoire de l'art (INHA) in Paris, the Bibliotheca Hertziana – Max Planck Institute for Art History in Rome, the Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florenz and the Zentralinstitut für Kunstgeschichte in Munich. It is also member of the International Association of Research Institutes in the History of Art (RIHA).\n\n"}
{"id": "29970830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29970830", "title": "Governance in 18th-century piracy", "text": "Governance in 18th-century piracy\n\nPirates, despite being criminals, were very organized. As well as having crew members assigned certain duties, pirates found a way to reduce conflict among themselves and maximize profits. They used a democratic system, spelled out by written “articles of agreement,” to limit the captain’s power and to keep order on board the ship.\n\nThe captain was elected by all the men in the crew and could be replaced by a majority vote by the same. Cowardly or brutal captains were quickly voted out of their position. Captains were expected to be skilled and dependable seamen. They were also expected to be bold and decisive leaders since they made the most important decisions including how to engage a target, how to pursue prey, how to escape the authorities and how to deal with an attack. In the latter situations, there was no time for taking a vote and settling conflicting opinions.\n\nThe quartermaster had the same authority as a captain (except during battle). The crew elected him to represent their interests. He commanded the captain and the rest of the crew. His other jobs included keeping order, settling conflicts between crew members and determining the amount of food and drink distributed to each crew member.\n\nThe sailing master oversaw the navigation and sailing of the ship. Often, because of their skills, they were forced into service for pirates. The boatswain took care of the boat by supervising supplies, inspecting the ship every morning and reporting the condition of the ship to the captain. He also supervised deck activities including the handling of the sails and the weighing and dropping of the anchor. The carpenter, under the boatswain and quartermaster’s directions, repaired the ship. Sometimes, the carpenter would also be the surgeon on the ship. The master gunner ensured that the cannons and weapons were in working order. The mate (often there were first and second mates) usually worked under the ship’s master, boatswain, gunner or carpenter as an apprentice. Mates also outfitted the ship with ropes, pulleys, sails and other rigging as needed.\n\nThe common sailor would be familiar with the rigging, sails and the steering of the ship. They kept watches and handled cannons during battle. A rigger worked the running rigging and furled and released sails. Young boys or men on a pirate ship were often servants known as cabin boys. During battles, powder monkeys ran gunpowder from below deck to cannon crews and also relayed messages.\n\nWatches were kept all day long. There was a larboard (left side) watch and a starboard (right side) watch; the quartermaster ran one watch, the sailing master the other. Most watches were 4 hours long except for the two dog watches, which were two hours long. The shorter watches prevented crew members from ending up with the same watch day after day.\n\nThe quarter bill, which listed duties in battle, was written before any battles took place and posted in a public place on the ship. During an actual battle, most of the crew stayed flat on their stomachs, under cover, until the time came to engage with the target, with the exception of those commanding and sailing the vessel. Once the target was close enough, the captain often remained on the quarter-deck, poop-deck or near the tiller. The sailing master, boatswain and mates managed the sailing of the vessel while the rest of the crew handled small arms or took responsibility for the cannons. A gun crew was responsible for two cannon, one on the starboard and its opposite cannon on the larboard). Ship’s boys carried cartridges and gunpowder up to the deck.\n\nPirate articles were based on the \"chasse-partie\" created on buccaneer ships in the 17th century. The \"chasse-partie\" determined the division of plunder among the crew as well as other rules. 18th-century pirates built upon this concept and created their own version of \"Articles of Agreement.\" Before setting out on their expedition, pirates wrote their articles alongside the election of a captain or quartermaster. The articles needed the consent of every crew member, and “all [pirates] swore to ‘em” sometimes on a Bible or whatever was at hand. During the election of a new captain, men who wanted another leader often drew up separate articles and sailed away from their former crew-mates. Pirate democracy was flexible but unable to deal with long-term dissent from the crew.\n\nOne description of the ritual of the pirate’s code was in Alexandre Exquemelin's \"Buccaneers of America\", published in 1678. Pirates called a first council (which included all crew members) to decide where to get provisions. Then they raided for supplies. Afterward, food rations were determined (with the captain receiving no more than any man). A second council decided on the articles of agreement, which were put in writing.\n\nThese articles of agreement served four purposes:\n\n\nArticles also described incentives like bonuses for productive crew members and thus prevented each man from allowing everyone else to pick up the slack.\n\nIn 1723, a man named John Phillips and four companions seized a schooner owned by William Minott of Boston. They named the ship the \"Revenge\", chose officers and swore to their articles on a hatchet, since they did not have a Bible:\n\nAnything not covered in the articles would be settled by crew members, who would act as a type of judiciary body to interpret the articles and apply them to the situations not found in the articles. For the most part, pirates strictly followed their articles. It appears that “pirates were more orderly, peaceful and well-organized among themselves than many of the colonies, merchant ships, or vessels of the Royal Navy.”\n\nPiracy was usually voluntarily chosen, and it was a way of life that challenged the society pirates left behind. Most pirates came from the lowest social classes and went out to sea in search of a better life as well as loot and treasure. As well as these pragmatic and economic reasons, the “spirit of revolt against common oppressors,” the oppressors being the governments and societies of nations, helped create pirate democracy. Pirate democracy was a counter-culture, created by common sailors, to the traditional organization of maritime life and labor.\n\nOn most merchant and Navy vessels, there was a hierarchy with captains holding the highest authority, then officers and at the bottom, ordinary sailors. On these ships, a captain had complete control over every aspect of life on his ship, including the division of food, wages, labor assignment and discipline. Thus, it was easy for a captain to become abusive and use his authority to take advantage of his crew. John Archer who sailed with Edward Teach said before his execution explained his stint as a pirate: “I could wish that Masters of Vessels would not use their Men with so much Severity, as many of them do, which exposes us to many Temptations.”\n\nColonel Benjamin Bennet wrote of pirates to the Council of Trade and Plantations in 1718: “I fear they will soon multiply for so many are willing to joyn with them when taken.” Sailors on seized ships joined pirates because of the appealing “prospect of plunder and ‘ready money,’ the food and the drink, the camaraderie, the democracy, equality, and justice, and the promise of care for the injured.”\n\nAnother appeal of piracy came in the limiting of the captain’s power over the crew. Pirate Francis Kennedy puts it succinctly: “most pirates, ‘having suffered formerly from the ill-treatment of their officers, provided carefully against such evil’ once they arranged their own command.” Thus, pirate democracy came with a series of check and balances that protected the rights of the crew.\n\nPiratical checks and balances proved quite successful. According to Captain Charles Johnson, owing to the institution of the quartermaster, aboard pirate ships \"the Captain can undertake nothing which the Quarter-Master does not approve. We may say, the Quarter-Master is a humble Imitation of the Roman Tribune of the People; he speaks for, and looks after the Interest of the Crew.\"\n\nThe dual executive was a distinctive feature of pirate organization. A quartermaster, along with the captain, was elected by the crew. The presence of the quartermaster divided the immediate authority on the ship into two, so one man couldn't have complete control over the crew. Also, the captain had to keep in mind that he only ruled because his crew allowed him to. A captain could be pulled from his position by a majority vote of the crew for various reasons, including: cowardice, poor judgment, abusive or controlling behavior (called predation) and other behavior that the crew believed infringed on their interests. The captain also lived like the rest of the crew; he had no privileges in lodgings or food and drink.\n\nHowever, the ultimate, highest authority on the ship was the pirate council, a group that included every man on the ship. The council determined where to go for the best prizes and how arguments were to be resolved. Also, discipline was dealt out on the basis on \"what Punishment the Captain and the Majority of the Company [believed] fit.\"\n\nPirates took their democracy beyond their ship as well. Upon seizing a prize, pirates administered the \"distribution of justice\" and asked the crew of the captured ship about their Captain’s nature. If the crew complained that their Captain had been cruel, the pirates tortured and then executed the captain. A kind captain was often released and rewarded.\n\nFor the most part, Western pirates did not prey on one another and were always willing to help out fellow pirates. For example, in April 1719, Howell Davis and his crew sailed into the Sierra Leone River, alarming the pirates commanded by Thomas Cocklyn until they saw the Jolly Roger. After a while, they saluted each other with cannon. Other crews “often invoked an unwritten code of hospitality to forge spontaneous alliances.”\n\nThe Jolly Roger, the most famous symbol of every pirate’s experience of death, violence and limited time on Earth, was used to terrify targets but also to identify fellow pirates. Pirate fraternity was further expressed by threats and acts of revenge against nations targeting pirates.\n\n\"Also see\": Libertatia\n\n“Pirates and other social bandits adopted social mechanisms which can be summarized as libertarian, democratic, federal, egalitarian, fraternal, and communal. It may well be argued that these 'floating commonwealths' are examples of a form of pre-Enlightenment radicalism.” They were also far less conscious of national, religious and racial differences than what was common. Even women, like the pirates Anne Bonny and Mary Read, as could enjoy the freedoms of life aboard a pirate ship.\n\nIn the 2nd volume of \"A General History of the Pyrates\" (published 1728), Captain Charles Johnson tells the tale of Captain Mission and his pirates, who established a utopian republic on the island of Madagascar. They called it “Libertalia,” where societies would be based on the ideals of liberty, equality and fraternity. Mission’s pirates were determined to guard the common people’s rights, fight the power of monarchies and allow people to make and judge their own laws and elect and rotate their leaders. They chose a council without distinguishing between nationality or race. They opposed labor and condemned slavery. The tale goes that Mission and his men integrated slaves from captured ships into their society as well.\nHowever, Captain Mission and Libertalia probably never existed except as an expression of the “living traditions, practices and dreams of an Atlantic working class, many of which were observed, synthesized and translated into discourse by the author of A General History of Pyrates…[which also included] utopian practices of the early 18th century pirate ship.”\n\nNevertheless, in 1713, English pirates Thomas Barrow and Benjamin Hornigold did proclaim themselves the governors of a tangible pirate republic on the island of New Providence in the Bahamas. They were joined by pirate captains like Charles Vane, Thomas Burgess, Calico Jack and Blackbeard. However, this republic was soon eliminated in 1718, by Captain Woodes Roger with his appointment as the Royal Governor of the Bahamas.\n\nThe English ruling class recognized the influence of Libertalia and its alternative social order, and they soon put their efforts into quashing it. There were worries of a pirate “Commonwealth” (such as the one Barrow and Hornigold set up), especially one in areas where no nation would be able to fight them. English rulers responded by hanging sea robbers by the hundreds, and the English Parliament passed new legislation persecuting pirates. Finally, with the hanging of Captain Bartholomew Roberts’ men at Cape Coast Castle on the African coast in 1722, the Golden Age of Piracy was brought to an end.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "231400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231400", "title": "Hand of Glory", "text": "Hand of Glory\n\nThe Hand of Glory is the dried and pickled hand of a man who has been hanged, often specified as being the left () hand, or, if the man were hanged for murder, the hand that \"did the deed.\"\n\nOld European beliefs attribute great powers to a Hand of Glory combined with a candle made from fat from the corpse of the same malefactor who died on the gallows. The candle so made, lighted, and placed (as if in a candlestick) in the Hand of Glory, would have rendered motionless all persons to whom it was presented. The process for preparing the hand and the candle are described in 18th century documents, with certain steps disputed due to difficulty in properly translating phrases from that era. The concept inspired short stories and poems in the 19th century.\n\nEtymologist Walter Skeat reports that, while folklore has long attributed mystical powers to a dead man's hand, the specific phrase \"Hand of Glory\" is in fact a folk etymology: it derives from the French ', a corruption of \"mandragore\", which is to say mandrake. Skeat writes, \"The identification of the \"hand of glory\" with the \"mandrake\" is clinched by the statement in Cockayne's Leechdoms, i. 245, that the mandrake \"shineth by night altogether like a lamp\". Cockayne in turn is quoting \"Pseudo-Apuleius\", in a translation of a Saxon manuscript of his '.\n\nAccording to old European beliefs, a candle made of the fat from a malefactor who died on the gallows, lighted, and placed (as if in a candlestick) in the Hand of Glory, which comes from the same man as the fat in the candle, would render motionless all persons to whom it was presented. The method for holding the candle is sketched in '. The candle could be put out only with milk. In another version, the hair of the dead man is used as a wick, and the candle would give light only to the holder. The Hand of Glory also purportedly had the power to unlock any door it came across. The method of making a Hand of Glory is described in ', and in the \"\".\n\nThe 1722 \"\" describes in detail how to make a Hand of Glory, as cited from him by :\n\nDe Givry points out the difficulties with the meaning of the words \"zimat\" and \"ponie\", saying it is likely \"ponie\" means horse-dung. De Givry is expressly using the 1722 edition, where the phrase is, according to John Livingston Lowes \"\" and de Givry notes that the meaning of \"ponie\" as \"horse dung\" is entirely unknown \"to us\", but that in local Lower Normandy dialect, it has that meaning. His reason for regarding this interpretation as \"more than probable\" is that horse-dung is \"very combustible, when dry\".\n\nIn the French 1752 edition (called \"\", i.e., \"New Edition, corrected and augmented\"), however, this reads as \"\", that is, in Francis Grose's translation from 1787, \"sisame of Lapland\", or Lapland sesame. This interpretation can be found many places on the Internet, and even in books published at university presses. Two books, one by Cora Daniels, another by Montague Summers, perpetuate the Lapland sesame myth, while being uncertain whether zimat should mean verdigris or the Arabian sulphate of iron.\n\nThe \"\" also provides a way to shield a house from the effects of the Hand of Glory:\n\nAn actual Hand of Glory is kept at the Whitby Museum in North Yorkshire, England, together with a text published in a book from 1823. In this manuscript text, the way to make the Hand of Glory is as follows:\n\nIn Hellboy's \"Box Full of Evil\" story and \"Being Human\" story, a Hand of Glory is used to paralyze everyone except the holder of the hand.\n\nIn \"The Invisibles\" by Grant Morrison large parts of the plot surround attempts from both the Invisibles and the Outer Church to obtain, and find out how to control, a Hand of Glory. In the comic, it is seen has having the propensity to open doors in timespace - i.e. open gates to other worlds and ages.\n\nIn \"Black Magick\" by Greg Ruka, a hand of glory is crafted from the corpse of a hanged rapist and murderer, Bruce Dunridge. The body was found washed on shore, missing his sinister hand.\n\nA Hand of Glory was proposed as one of the motives for an unsolved murder that occurred in wartime England some time in mid-late 1941. The case was made more mysterious by numerous graffiti that appeared later stating \"Who put Bella in the Wych Elm?\", referring to the woman's corpse which was found inside a tree.\n\nSevered hands in an occult context occur as early as Herodotus's \"Tale of Rhampsinitus\" (ii, 121), in which a clever thief leaves a dead hand behind in order to avoid capture. They also appear in early stories of lycanthropy, such as Henry Boguet's \" in 1590.\n\nIn 1832 wrote the short story \" (\"The Hand of Glory, a Macaronic Story\"). The same year Aloysius Bertrand published \"\" (\"The Hour of the Sabbat\"). Guy de Maupassant made his debut with \"\" (\"The Flayed Hand\") (1875) one of his first stories in the ' under the pseudonym Joseph Prunier. Marcel Schwob wrote an uncollected short story about it: \"\" (\"The Hand of Glory\"), which was published in ' in March 11, 1893.\n\nThe second of the \"Ingoldsby Legends\", \"The Hand of Glory, or, The Nurse's Story\", describes the making and use of a Hand of Glory. The first lines are:\n\n<poem>Now open, lock!\nTo the Dead Man's knock!\nFly, bolt, and bar, and band!\nNor move, nor swerve,\nJoint, muscle, or nerve,\nAt the spell of the Dead Man's hand!\nSleep, all who sleep! -- Wake, all who wake!\nBut be as the dead for the Dead Man's sake!</poem>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6700377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6700377", "title": "Imprisoned with the Pharaohs", "text": "Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\n\n\"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\" (called \"Under the Pyramids\" in draft form, also published as \"Entombed with the Pharaohs\") is a short story written by American fantasy author H. P. Lovecraft in February 1924. Commissioned by \"Weird Tales\" founder and owner J. C. Henneberger, the narrative tells a fictionalized account in the first-person perspective of an allegedly true experience of escape artist Harry Houdini. Set in 1910, in Egypt, Houdini finds himself kidnapped by a tour guide, who resembles an ancient pharaoh, and thrown down a deep hole near the Great Sphinx of Giza. While attempting to find his way out, he stumbles upon a gigantic ceremonial cavern and encounters the real-life deity that inspired the building of the Sphinx.\n\nLovecraft accepted the job because of the money he was offered in advance by Henneberg. The result was published in the May–June–July 1924 edition of \"Weird Tales\", although it was credited solely to Houdini until the 1939 reprint. Despite Lovecraft's use of artistic license, Houdini enjoyed the tale and the two men collaborated on several smaller projects prior to the latter's death in 1926. \"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\" has been suggested as an early influence on author Robert Bloch and as anticipating the cosmic themes in Lovecraft's later work, including \"The Shunned House\".\n\nTold from the first-person perspective of escape artist Harry Houdini, \"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\" is a fictionalized account of an encounter that he claims to have experienced while on vacation in Egypt in January 1910. Enlisting the services of a guide named Abdul Reis el Drogman, Houdini is taken on a tour of Cairo and eventually forced to break up a conflict between his guide and a Bedouin leader by the name of Ali Ziz. Drogman enlists Houdini to help him settle the fight by way of a \"custom of great antiquity in Cairo\": a boxing match atop the Great Pyramid of Giza. Houdini soon discovers, however, that the entire argument was merely a ruse designed to lure him into the desert at night and kidnap him. The escape artist is tied up, taken to an unknown location, and dropped down a deep pit.\n\nAfter dreaming of spectacular horrors, Houdini awakens at the bottom of the pit and eventually manages to free himself from the ropes. Suspecting that he is somewhere in a temple under the Great Sphinx of Giza, he travels through the dark in an attempt to find an exit, following what he believes to be a draft from outdoors. Instead, he discovers that he has actually been heading further underground, eventually falling down a flight of stairs and landing in a large ceremonial cavern. There he witnesses an army of half-man, half-animal mummies, led by the ancient Egyptian pharaohs Khephren and Nitokris, leaving offerings to a hippopotamus-sized, five-headed, tentacled beast that appears from a hole deep in the hall. As he escapes, he realizes that this creature is merely the paw of a much larger deity in whose image the Sphinx was carved. Houdini dismisses the events as a hallucination or a dream consequent of the strains of his kidnapping ordeal, despite the resemblance he sees between Khephren and his guide, Drogman.\n\nFacing financial problems, J. C. Henneberger, the founder and owner of \"Weird Tales\", wanted to associate the popular Harry Houdini with the magazine in order to boost its readership. Following the introduction of an \"Ask Houdini\" column, as well as the publication of two short stories allegedly written by the escape artist, Henneberger sought out Lovecraft in February 1924 and commissioned him to write the tale of a supposedly true experience that Houdini had had in Egypt. Lovecraft was paid $100 (approximately $ in present-day terms) to ghostwrite the story, at the time the largest sum he had ever been given as an advance. This was a major factor in motivating him to take the job as, after listening to Houdini's story and researching its background, Lovecraft concluded that the tale was completely fabricated and requested permission from Henneberger to take artistic license. After receiving clearance from the editor, he began his writing by spending considerable time researching the setting in books issued by the Metropolitan Museum of Art as well as by frequently visiting the museum's Egyptian exhibits.\n\nLovecraft completed \"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\" in February 1924 but lost his original typescript of the story at Union Station in Providence, Rhode Island when he was on his way to New York to get married. He was forced to spend much of his honeymoon in Philadelphia retyping the manuscript. The work's original title, \"Under the Pyramids\", is known only from the lost and found advertisement that he placed in \"The Providence Journal\". The tale was printed in the May–June–July 1924 edition of \"Weird Tales\" as \"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\" and without credit to Lovecraft in the byline, as Henneberger thought that this would confuse the readers, as the narrative was told entirely from Houdini's first-person perspective. Lovecraft would later receive credit in the editor's note of the 1939 reprint.\n\n\"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\" became a popular story and was received favorably by Houdini. The escape artist was so impressed that, until his death, he continued offering the writer jobs and ghostwriting opportunities. Among them was an article criticizing astrology (for which he was paid $75 – approximately $ in present-day terms) and a book entitled \"The Cancer of Superstition\", of which Lovecraft had completed an outline and some introductory pages prior to Houdini's 1926 death. To thank the author for his work, Houdini gave Lovecraft a signed copy of his 1924 book \"A Magician Among the Spirits\". Lovecraft scholar S. T. Joshi praised the tale, calling it \"surprisingly effective and suspenseful, with a genuinely surprising ending\". Science fiction and fantasy author, editor, and critic Lin Carter, in his 1972 work \"\", refers to the story as \"one of the best things Lovecraft had written up to that time\".\n\n\"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\" has been cited as an early influence on Robert Bloch, which is particularly evident in his tale \"Fane of the Black Pharaoh\". Although Lovecraft himself refers to the real sphinx as a god of the dead, Bloch expanded upon the mythos and claimed that the sphinx in \"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\" was actually Nyarlathotep, an Outer God and Lovecraft creation. The idea of a twist ending, where a terrible discovery is made worse by the realization that it is only part of a larger horror, was used again in \"The Shunned House\", written later that year. In this tale, the protagonist digs into the cellar of the eponymous dwelling only to find that the thing he believed to be the monster of the tale is only the beast's elbow. The text of \"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs\", like many of Lovecraft's works, is in the public domain and can be found in several compilations of the author's work as well as on the Internet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57379245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57379245", "title": "Incel", "text": "Incel\n\nIncels (a portmanteau of involuntary celibates) are members of an online subculture who define themselves as unable to find a romantic or sexual partner despite desiring one, a state they describe as \"inceldom\". Self-identified incels are mostly white, male, and heterosexual. Discussions in incel forums are often characterized by resentment, misanthropy, self-pity, self-loathing, misogyny, racism, a sense of entitlement to sex, and the endorsement of violence against sexually active people. The Southern Poverty Law Center described the subculture as \"part of the online male supremacist ecosystem\" that is included in their list of hate groups. At least four mass murders, resulting in 45 deaths, have been committed in North America by people who have either self-identified as incels or who had mentioned incel-related names and writings in their private writings or Internet postings. Incel communities have been criticized by the media and researchers for being misogynist, encouraging violence, as well as spreading extremist views and radicalizing their members.\n\nThe first online community to use the term \"incel\" was started in 1993 when a Canadian college student known only by her first name, Alana, created a website in order to discuss her sexual inactivity with others. The website, titled \"Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project\", was used by people of all genders to share their thoughts and experiences. In 1997, she started a mailing list on the topic that used the abbreviation INVCEL, which was later shortened to \"incel\", where it was defined as \"anybody of any gender who was lonely, had never had sex or who hadn't had a relationship in a long time\". During her college career and after, she realized she was queer, and became more comfortable with her identity. She later gave the site to a stranger. When speaking about the website in 2018, Alana said, \"It definitely wasn't a bunch of guys blaming women for their problems. That's a pretty sad version of this phenomenon that's happening today. Things have changed in the last 20 years.\"\n\nThe message board love-shy.com was founded in 2003 as a place for people who were perpetually rejected or extremely shy of potential partners to discuss their situations.\n\nThe /r/incels subreddit, a forum on the website Reddit, became a particularly active incel community. The subreddit was known as a place where men blamed women for their involuntary celibacy, sometimes advocated for rape or other violence, and were misogynistic and often racist. One post titled \"general question about how rapists get caught\" was asked by a member pretending to be a woman, saying they wanted to know how a woman who was drugged and raped would begin finding her rapist.\n\nWhen Alana read about the 2014 Isla Vista killings, and the way parts of the incel subculture glorified the perpetrator, Elliot Rodger, she wrote, \"Like a scientist who invented something that ended up being a weapon of war, I can't uninvent this word, nor restrict it to the nicer people who need it.\" Alana expressed regret at the change in usage from her original intent of creating an \"inclusive community\" for men and women who were sexually deprived due to social awkwardness, marginalization, or mental illness. She has since started a new project, \"Love Not Anger\", which she describes as \"a project to research how lonely people might find respectful love, instead of being stuck in anger\".\n\nOn October 25, 2017, Reddit announced a new policy that would ban \"content that encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence or physical harm against an individual or a group of people\". and banned the /r/incels subreddit on November 7, 2017, under its purview. At the time of the ban, the community had around 40,000 members. \n\nIncels came to wider public notice with the banning of the subreddit and when a series of mass murders were committed by men who either self-identified as involuntarily celibate or shared similar ideologies. However the incel community continued to inhabit Reddit. Increased interest in incel communities has been attributed to the feeling of \"aggrieved entitlement\" by some men, who feel they are being denied rights they deserve and blame women instead of society's expectation of masculinity.\n\nIncel communities have increasingly become more extremist and focused on violence, in recent years. This has been attributed to various factors, including influence from overlapping online hate groups and the rise of the alt-right and white supremacist groups. The misogynistic and sometimes violent rhetoric of some members of incel communities has led to numerous bans from websites and webhosts. Incel communities continue to exist on more lenient platforms, such as Voat, 4chan, and Reddit. There are also incel forums that disapprove of hatred, and a dating website that caters to incels.\n\nMany incel communities are characterized by resentment, self-pity, misogyny, misanthropy, narcissism, and racism. Discussions often revolve around the belief that men are owed sex; other common topics include idleness, loneliness, unhappiness, suicide, sexual surrogates, prostitutes and the acquirement of sex robots, as well as various attributes they believe increase one's desirability as a partner such as income or personality. Some endorse suicide among incels, violence against sexually active women and more sexually successful men, harassment of women, and catfishing women. In some communities, it is common for posts to glorify violence by self-identified incels such as Elliot Rodger (2014 Isla Vista killings) and Alek Minassian (2018 Toronto van attack, suspected), as well as by those they believe shared their ideology such as Marc Lépine (1989 École Polytechnique massacre), Seung-Hui Cho (2007 Virginia Tech shooting), and George Sodini (2009 Collier Township shooting).\n\nMany incels firmly defend concepts such as biological determinism and evolutionary psychology. Other concepts that incels may believe in include female hypergamy, the \"80/20 rule\" (an application of the Pareto principle) which suggests that 80% of women desire the top 20% of most attractive men; and among non-whites, the \"JBW\" theory, which stands for \"Just Be White\", suggesting that Caucasians face the fewest obstacles when dating. Incels also believe that single people seeking a partner participate in a cruel, mercenary, and Darwinian sexual selection wherein incels are genetically unfit and where women hold an advantage for reasons ranging from feminism to the use of cosmetics. Incels may attribute their lack of sexual success to factors such as shyness, sex-segregated work environments, negative body image, penis size, or their physical appearance, and commonly believe that the only thing more important than looks in improving a man's eligibility as a prospective partner is wealth. Some members of incel communities support the idea of \"forced 'sexual redistribution, where governments would require women to engage in certain sexual relationships, an idea which incels refer to as \"sexual Marxism\" and which others have described as \"state-sanctioned rape\". Some incels support the works of fringe social psychologist Brian Gilmartin, author of the book \"Shyness and Love\" which gained popularity among incel communities, and clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson.\n\nIncel communities are a part of the broader manosphere. According to \"The New York Times\", involuntary celibacy is an adaptation of the idea of \"male supremacy\". The Southern Poverty Law Center described the subculture as \"part of the online male supremacist ecosystem\", which they began including in their list of hate groups in 2018. \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"the group has evolved into a male supremacist movement made up of people—some celibate, some not—who believe that women should be treated as sexual objects with few rights\". Incel communities sometimes overlap with topics such as Men Going Their Own Way (MGTOW), men's rights activism, vlogs by people who believe they are experiencing \"true forced loneliness\" (TFL), and pickup artistry, although at least one male incel website has expressed hatred for pickup artistry and accuses pickup artists and dating coaches of financially exploiting incels.\n\nThe black pill is a set of beliefs that are commonly held amongst members of incel communities, such as biological determinism, fatalism and defeatism for unattractive people. Someone who believes in the black pill is \"blackpilled\".\n\nThe concept of the black pill distinguishes incels from the men's rights movement and their popular reference to the red pill, an allusion to the dilemma in the movie \"The Matrix\" where the protagonist must choose to remain in a world of illusion (taking the blue pill) or to see the world as it really is (taking the red pill). In the context of men's rights activism, \"taking the red pill\" means seeing a world where women hold power over men. The black pill, on the other hand, refers to hopelessness. It also holds that one's personality is not very important.\n\nThe term \"black pill\" was first popularized on the blog Omega Virgin Revolt, where the term commended despondency in order to distinguish incels from the pickup artist communities. On the incel subreddit /r/braincels, \"blackpills\" are memes (usually images) that users share to describe a user's thoughts, many of which criticize women as egocentric, cruel, and shallow. Although the tone of the subreddit is similar, moderators of the forum say that they do not endorse, support, or glorify violence or violent people, a distinction they make from the subject matter of its /r/incels predecessor that resulted in it being banned from Reddit.\n\nThe term \"involuntary celibate\" (shortened to \"incel\") refers to self-identifying members of an online subculture based around the inability to find a romantic or sexual partner despite desiring one, a state they describe as \"inceldom\" or \"incelibacy\". It is sometimes used interchangeably or alongside other terms, such as \"love-shy\" (describing those with social anxiety or excessive shyness preventing romantic success), \"FA\" (short for \"forever alone\"), \"unfuckability\", \"omegas\", \"zeta males\", \"betas\" \"the undersexed\", or \"the sexless\". Alana, the coiner of the term incel, initially considered using other terms such as \"perpetually single\" or \"dating shy\".\n\nMembers of incel communities regularly use jargon and a distinct dialect to refer to various concepts. For example, they may describe women as \"femoids\", \"stacys\" (attractive sexually active women), or \"beckys\" (less attractive sexually active women), and sexually active men as \"chads\". \"Mogging\" refers to the act of eclipsing another person in terms of physical appearance and thereby undermining them. \"Looksmaxing\" is an attempt at enhancing one's appearance by methods including dressing nicely, going to the gym, or undergoing plastic surgery. The abbreviation \"NEET\" refers to people who don't have jobs and aren't attending school: \"not in education, employment, or training\".\n\nMembers of incel communities use many variations of the term \"incel\" to refer to subgroups in the community, such as \"volcels\" (voluntary celibate; someone who chooses to forego sexual intercourse), \"marcels\" (married), \"nearcels\" (those who are considered nearly incel), \"hicels\" (those who have high standards; are very picky when dating), \"heightcels\" (short), and \"fakecels\" (those who claim to be incel, but in reality have recently had sex or been in a relationship). There are also a number of race-based variations of the term \"incel\" which refer to people who believe their race is the reason behind their inability to find a partner, including \"currycels\" (people of South Asian ancestry) and \"ricecels\" (those of Chinese or Southeast Asian backgrounds), or collectively, \"ethnicels\".\n\nSelf-identified incels are mostly white, male and heterosexual, and are often described as young and friendless introverts. Some media outlets depict them as unemployed and living with parents. However, due to their varied nature, there is no singular typical trait that defines all incels. Although members of incel communities mainly reside in the United States, there are also incel communities for people outside the Anglosphere, such as the Italian website Il Forum dei Brutti.\n\nThe first incel website, Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project, was gender-inclusive. There are also women-specific forums, such as /r/Femcels and /r/ForeverAloneWomen. Nonetheless, there is disagreement in online incel communities on whether women can be incel, with some claiming that male incels outnumber female incels, others claiming that it is impossible for women to be incel, others claiming that only women with a physical deformity can be incel, while others argue that only highly unattractive women belonging to the \"bottom percentile in terms of appearance\" can be incel.\n\nEstimates on the size of incel communities vary, and range from the thousands, to tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands.\n\nThe incel subculture includes people who are in sexless marriages (or other sexless relationships) but who wish to be sexually active. It is considered to be distinct from asexuality and from voluntary sexual abstinence.\n\n\"Involuntary celibacy\" is not a medical or psychological condition. Some people who identify as incel suffer from physical disabilities or psychological disorders such as depression, autism spectrum disorder, and body dysmorphic disorder. Some visitors of incel forums attribute their inability to find a partner to physical or mental ailments, some others attribute it to extreme introversion. Many incels engage in self-diagnosis of mental health issues, and members of incel communities often discourage posters who post about mental illness from seeing therapists or otherwise seeking treatment. Some incels with severe depression are also suicidal, and some members of incel communities encourage suicidal members to commit suicide, sometimes recommending they commit acts of mass violence before doing so.\n\nSome mass murders and other violent attacks in North America have been committed or are suspected to have been committed by men who have self-identified as involuntarily celibate, or whose statements align with incel ideologies.\n\nOn May 23, 2014, Elliot Rodger killed six people and injured fourteen others before killing himself in Isla Vista, California, near the campus of University of California, Santa Barbara. These killings drew media attention to the concept of involuntary celibacy, and particularly the misogyny and glorification of violence that are a mainstay of many incel communities. Rodger self-identified as an incel and left behind a 137-page manifesto and YouTube videos detailing his involuntary celibacy and discussing how he wanted revenge for being rejected by women. He had been an active member of an involuntary celibacy community called PUAHate (short for \"pickup artist hate\"), and referenced it several times in his manifesto. Although PUAHate shut down soon after the attack, Rodger became something of a martyr to some communities that remained, and to some of those that began later. He has been referenced by the perpetrators or suspected perpetrators of several other mass killings.\n\nRodger is among several attackers who are regularly praised by members of incel communities. The perpetrator of the 2009 Collier Township shooting, George Sodini, has been embraced by some of these communities. After the 2017 Las Vegas shooting by Stephen Paddock (a man with unclear motive), some of the involuntarily celibate community celebrated the shooter, who they felt was a hero who was targeting \"normies\". The trend has since continued—after the 2018 Toronto van attack, a poster on a website created to supersede /r/incels wrote about suspected perpetrator Alek Minassian, \"I hope this guy wrote a manifesto because he could be our next new saint.\" After the 2018 Danforth shooting, posters on an incel message board expressed excitement with the possibility that the perpetrator might be an incel, although no motive has been identified.\n\nOn October 1, 2015, Chris Harper-Mercer killed nine people and injured eight others before killing himself in a shooting at the Umpqua Community College campus in Roseburg, Oregon. He left a manifesto at the scene, outlining his interest in other mass murders including the Isla Vista killings, anger at not having a girlfriend, and animus towards the world. In his journal writings, he had related with Elliot Rodger and other mass shooters, describing them as \"people who stand with the gods\". Before the attack, when someone on an online message board had speculated he was \"saving himself for someone special\", Harper-Mercer had replied: \"Involuntarily so.\" Several hours before the shooting, someone suspected to be Harper-Mercer posted a threat to a Pacific Northwest college to /r9k/, a 4chan board with many involuntarily celibate posters.\n\nOn July 31, 2016, Sheldon Bentley robbed and killed an unconscious man in an alleyway in Edmonton, Alberta. During his trial, Bentley said he killed the man by stomping on his abdomen because he was frustrated with stress from his job as a security guard and with being involuntarily celibate for four years.\n\nOn December 7, 2017, William Atchison killed two people before killing himself in Aztec, New Mexico, in a shooting at Aztec High School, where he had previously been a student. He had used the pseudonym \"Elliot Rodger\" on several online forums, and praised \"the supreme gentleman\" (a term Rodger had used to describe himself, which has since been adopted as a moniker by incel communities).\n\nOn February 14, 2018, Nikolas Cruz killed seventeen people and injured seventeen others in a shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida before being arrested. Cruz had previously posted online that \"Elliot Rodger will not be forgotten\".\n\nOn April 23, 2018, a van driver (suspected to be Alek Minassian) killed ten people and injured fourteen others in a vehicle-ramming attack in Toronto, Ontario before being arrested. Shortly before the attack, Minassian had posted on Facebook that \"the Incel Rebellion has already begun\" and applauded Elliot Rodger. The term \"Incel Rebellion\" is sometimes used interchangeably with the term \"Beta Uprising\", which refers to a violent response to incels' perceived sexual deprivation.\n\nOn November 2, 2018, Scott Beierle killed two women and injured four women and a man before killing himself in a shooting at the Hot Yoga Tallahassee studio in Tallahassee, Florida. He had a history of arrests for grabbing women's buttocks, and in 2014 he posted several YouTube videos of himself espousing extreme hatred for women. He expressed anger over not having a girlfriend, mentioning Elliot Rodger in one video. In the months leading up to the shooting, he posted numerous misogynistic, racist, violent, and homophobic songs to SoundCloud.\n\nIncel communities have been widely criticized in the media and by researchers as violent, misogynist, and extremist. Keegan Hankes, a senior research analyst working for the Southern Poverty Law Center, has cautioned that exposure to violent content on incel forums \"play[s] a very large role\" in the radicalization of incels, and describes violent posts on the forums as \"more ... than I'm used to seeing on even white supremacist sites\". Journalist David Futrelle has described incel communities as \"violently misogynistic\", and is among critics who attribute worsening violent rhetoric on incel forums to the growth of the alt-right and white supremacy, and the overlap between incel communities and online hate groups. Senior research fellow at the Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD), Amarnath Amarasingam, has criticized some incel communities where calls for violence are commonplace, saying \"under the right set of psychological and personal circumstances, these kinds of forums can be dangerous and push people into violence\". Another researcher at the ISD, Jacob Davey, compared the radicalization of incels in incel forums to teenagers being urged to go to extreme measures on online forums that promote anorexia and other eating disorders and to online campaigns convincing people to join ISIL. Speaking about incels' feelings of entitlement to sex, Davey said the attitude \"can go as far as the justification of rape\". University of Portsmouth lecturer Lisa Sugiura has described incel forums as a \"networked misogyny\", and urged the posts in such forums be taken seriously not only in the context of hate speech but also as a form of grooming that could radicalize \"impressionable and vulnerable disillusioned young men\".\n\nCriticism has also been directed against platforms that host or have hosted incel content, including Reddit (who banned the /r/incels community in 2017 but has declined to ban another incel subreddit) and Twitter. Cloudflare, which provides services including DDoS protection and caching so that webpages are still accessible when a site is offline, has also been criticized for protecting incel websites against downtime even when webhosts have terminated service.\n\nReporting on incels by media outlets following the incel-related attacks during the 2010s has been criticized for its \"breathless\" coverage, normalizing incel communities by describing them as \"sexually frustrated\", and directing readers to incel communities. Some reporting has also been criticized for victim blaming by implying that women and peers who rejected the attackers held some responsibility for provoking the attacks, or for giving attackers notoriety by reporting on them at length.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40994853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40994853", "title": "Krip Hop", "text": "Krip Hop\n\nKrip-Hop is a movement demonstrating alternate arrangements by which hip hop artists with disabilities can communicate through social media, including educators, journalists and conferences. The movement uses hip hop music as a means of expression for the disabled, providing them an opportunity to share their experiences.\n\nKrip Hop was founded by Leroy F. Moore Jr., an African American writer, poet, community activist and feminist who was diagnosed with cerebral palsy. Moore was born in New York in 1967 to an activist father loosely connected to the Black Panthers. His upbringing sensitized Moore to the challenges faced by African Americans and the disabled. As a youth, Moore discovered that most people had little knowledge of the historical impact of disabled African Americans. This led him to begin research, initially in the music industry.\n\nMoore first spotlighted disabled hip hop artists in the early 2000s. He co-produced and co-hosted a three-part series on what he called \"Krip Hop\" for a Berkeley, California radio station. The \"Krip Hop\" series appeared on KPFA's \"Pushing Limits\", which focuses on news, arts, and culture for the disabled community. The series' popularity inspired Moore to create Krip Hop Nation for disabled musicians, since little cultural work or music by people with disabilities had been recognized. \"The Krip-Hop movement really makes the pain of the people feel visible\", Moore said. \"It goes a lot deeper than what people can see.\"\n\nThe primary goal of Krip Hop Nation is to increase awareness in music and media outlets of the talents, history and rights of people with disabilities in the hip-hop industry. In an interview, Moore expressed the hope that by listening to his music the audience would understand the need to question authority and the information provided to them. He said he wanted his listeners to learn about their community and to become open to all people. Issues such as racism and sexism are commonly discussed, and Moore hoped that people would examine possible ableism in their attitudes. According to Moore, Krip Hop Nation goes beyond producing music and the bling-bling associated with hip hop; the movement is about advocacy, education and overcoming oppression. For Moore the movement has sought to reclaim negative terms associated with the disabled (such as \"crazy\", \"lame\", \"retarded\" and \"cripple\"), using them to shock people into understanding and respecting the disabled African American community. Krip Hop Nation addresses discrimination against disabled artists in hip hop by publishing articles and hosting events, lectures and workshops. It has over 300 members worldwide.\n\nMoore has explained that \"Krip Hop\" is a play on \"Hip Hop.\" Although the \"Krip\" part of the name refers to \"crippled\", it is spelled with a \"k\" to avoid association with the Crips.\n\nKrip Hop Nation has released two mixtape CDs, held conferences with the PeaceOut HomoHop organization at UC Berkeley and New York University, organized and hosted a six-artist performance in Sacramento, California, staged a show at Disability and Deaf Arts (DADA) in Liverpool and hosted a Krip Hop Nation conference in Atlanta, Georgia for Black History Month in 2011 featuring musicians, writers and activists.\n\nIn February 2012, DJ Quad of 5th Battalion joined Krip Hop Nation to co-produce a CD with 17 disabled artists from the UK, the US and Germany on police brutality and profiling. Among the collaborators was Emmitt Thrower of Artist Magnet. The documentary was scheuled for release in 2014.\n\nKrip Hop Nation includes artists such as Counterclockwise, Preach-man, Wheelchair Sports Camp, Miss Money and Fezo. Kalyn Heffernan is a rapper from Denver, Colorado. With brittle bone disease, Heffernan is tall and uses a wheelchair. She heads Wheelchair Sports Camp, an experimental hip-hop group with jazz and avant-garde influences. Her raps are political, with many discussing the difficulties she faces as a disabled person in America. Heffernan created beats for Haitian rappers in the area dealing with extreme poverty after the 2010 earthquake. In July 2017 she was arrested after a 3-day sitdown protest at her GOP Senator's office, remarking \"I'd rather go to jail than to die without Medicaid\" in regards to Trumpcare. \n\n"}
{"id": "8111088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8111088", "title": "Max Headroom broadcast signal intrusion", "text": "Max Headroom broadcast signal intrusion\n\nThe Max Headroom broadcast signal intrusion was a television signal hijacking occurring in Chicago, Illinois, United States, on the evening of November 22, 1987, involving at least two unknown individuals. It is an example of what is known in the television business as broadcast signal intrusion. Two Chicago television stations had their broadcast signals hijacked by an unknown person wearing a Max Headroom mask and sunglasses. A homemade Max Headroom background rocked back and forth in the background.\n\nThe intruder was successful in interrupting two broadcast television stations within the course of three hours. The first incident took place for 25 seconds during the sportscast on the 9:00 PM news on WGN-TV Channel 9, and the second, two hours later, after 11:00 PM on PBS affiliate WTTW Channel 11 for about 90 seconds during a broadcast of an episode of the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"Horror of Fang Rock\".\n\nThe second pirate broadcast, which lasted 90 seconds and pre-recorded on videotape, featured the individual parodying WGN and television in general. The hacker rambled on making reference to Headroom's endorsement of Coke, the series \"Clutch Cargo\", and WGN anchor Chuck Swirsky, then pretended to defecate as a \"masterpiece for all the greatest world newspaper nerds\", a reference to WGN's call letters (\"World's Greatest Newspaper\"). The video ended with the hacker’s exposed buttocks being spanked with a flyswatter by an accomplice before normal programming resumed.\n\nThe incident made national headlines and the people responsible have never been identified.\n\nThe first occurrence of the signal intrusion took place during independent station WGN-TV (channel 9)'s live telecast of its primetime newscast, \"The Nine O'Clock News\" (now known as \"WGN News at Nine\"). During highlights from the Chicago Bears' 30–10 home victory over the Detroit Lions that afternoon in the sports report, the screen went black for 15 seconds, then returned with a person wearing a Max Headroom mask and sunglasses, moving around and acting in a similar manner to Max Headroom. His head was in front of a sheet of moving corrugated metal, which imitated the electronic background effect used in the Max Headroom TV and movie appearances. There was no audio other than a buzzing noise and an oscillating sound. The hijack was stopped after engineers at WGN switched the frequency of their studio link to the John Hancock Center transmitter.\n\nThe incident left sports anchor Dan Roan bemused, saying, \"Well, if you're wondering what's happened, so am I\", and that the computer running the news \"took off and went wild\", then repeating his report on the Bears' victory earlier that day.\n\nLater that night, around 11:15 p.m. Central Time, during a broadcast of the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"Horror of Fang Rock\", PBS member station WTTW's signal was hijacked by the same person, apparently, who had broadcast the WGN-TV hijack, this time with distorted and crackling audio.\n\nThe show was interrupted by television static, after which the unidentified man wearing the Max Headroom mask and sunglasses appeared, saying \"That does it. He's a fricking nerd.\" He mentioned WGN sports pundit Chuck Swirsky, whom he said he was \"better than\", going on to call Swirsky a \"fricking liberal\". The man started to moan, scream and laugh. He continued to laugh and utter various random phrases, including New Coke's advertising slogan \"Catch the Wave\" while holding a Pepsi can (Max Headroom was a Coca-Cola spokesperson at the time), then tossed it out of sight, leaned towards the camera and presented the finger wearing a rubber extension over his middle finger, though the gesture was partially off-screen. The man then retrieved the Pepsi can, and sang \"Your love is fading\", removed the rubber extension, and then began humming the theme song to \"Clutch Cargo\", pausing to say \"I still see the X\" (often misheard as \"I stole CBS\"), which referred to the final episode of the series, before resuming humming again. He then began to moan painfully, exclaiming about his piles (again, the muffled audio, or perhaps as a deliberate computer pun, makes it sound as if he is saying \"files\"), after which a flatulence sound was heard and he gyrated. He then stated that he had \"made a giant masterpiece for all the greatest world newspaper nerds\" (the WGN call letters used by the Chicago television station as well as its sister radio station are an acronym for \"World's Greatest Newspaper\", in reference to the flagship newspaper of their corporate parent, the Tribune Company's \"Chicago Tribune\"). He then held up a gardening glove and said, \"My brother is wearing the other one.\" After putting the glove on, he continued, \"But it's dirty! It's like you got bloodstains on it!\" He then removed the glove and threw it away in disgust.\n\nThe picture suddenly cuts over to a shot of the man's lower torso. His buttocks were partly exposed, and he was holding the now-removed mask up to the camera with the rubber extension now placed in the mouth of the mask, howling, \"They're coming to get me!\" An unidentified accomplice wearing a French maid costume then told him to \"bend over, bitch.\" The accomplice then started to spank the man with a flyswatter as the man screamed loudly, shouting \"Oh, do it!\" part way. The transmission then blacked out for a few seconds before resuming the \"Doctor Who\" episode in progress; the hijack lasted for about 90 seconds.\n\nWTTW, which maintained its transmitter atop the Sears Tower, found that its engineers were unable to stop the hijacker due to the fact that there were no engineers on duty at the Sears Tower at the time of the hijacking. According to station spokesman Anders Yocom, technicians monitoring the transmission from WTTW headquarters \"attempted to take corrective measures, but couldn't\". \"By the time our people began looking into what was going on, it was over,\" he told the \"Chicago Tribune\". WTTW was able to find copies of the hijacker's telecast with the help of \"Doctor Who\" fans who had been taping the show.\n\nThe Max Headroom incident made national headlines and was reported on the \"CBS Evening News\" the next day. WTTW received numerous phone calls from viewers who wondered what had occurred for the duration of the intrusion.\n\nAn investigating FCC engineer quoted at the time said the perpetrators of the intrusion faced a maximum $10,000 fine, up to a year in prison, or both.\n\nNot long after the incident, WMAQ-TV humorously inserted clips of the hijacking into a newscast during Mark Giangreco's sports highlights. \"A lot of people thought it was real – the pirate cutting into our broadcast. We got all kinds of calls about it,\" said Giangreco.\n\n"}
{"id": "22369132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22369132", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Croatia)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Croatia)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture () is a ministry of the Croatian government in charge of preserving the country's natural and cultural heritage and overseeing its development. The ministry in its present form was created in 1994 in the Cabinet of Nikica Valentić, as the culture portfolio had previously been part of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports (1990–93) and the Ministry of Culture and Education (1993–94).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56582040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56582040", "title": "Museum of Spirits", "text": "Museum of Spirits\n\nThe Museum of Spirits () is situated on the island of Djurgården in Stockholm, Sweden. The museum has permanent and temporary exhibitions related to the drinking culture of Sweden. The museum also functions as an art gallery, as it houses and displays the Absolut Art Collection.\n\nThe museum houses three exhibition venues, including the permanent, interactive exhibition Sweden: Spirits of a Nation (\"Spritlandet Sverige\").\n\nThe Museum of Spirits was opened as the Wine & Spirit Historical Museum in the Grönstedtska palace, in Vasastaden, Stockholm, in 1967, in conjunction with the 50th anniversary of the founding of the state-owned company AB Vin & Sprit.\n\nIn 2014, Petter Nisson, who had previously operated La Gazzetta (described by the \"New York Times\" as \"one of the most celebrated creative neo-bistros in Paris\"), opened a restaurant at the museum.\n\n\nThe Absolut Art Collection consists of work created between 1985 and 2004. It contains nearly 900 artworks - paintings, graphic art, photography, furniture, fashion and handicrafts - by 600 artists and designers, all in some way portraying the Absolut Vodka bottle.\n\nThe first piece commissioned was Andy Warhol’s \"Absolut Warhol\", in 1986. Other commissions went to, for example, Keith Haring, Kenny Scharf, Steven Salzman, Damien Hirst, Tom Ford, Louise Bourgeois, Ola Billgren, Dan Wolgers and Linn Fernström.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4326999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4326999", "title": "Nukak", "text": "Nukak\n\nThe Nukak people (also Nukak-Makú) live between the Guaviare and Inírida rivers, in the depths of the tropical humid forest, on the fringe of the Amazon basin, in Guaviare Department, Republic of Colombia. They are nomadic hunter-gatherers with seasonal nomadic patterns and in addition they practice a shifting horticulture in small scale. An \"uncontacted people\" until 1981, they have since lost half of their population, primarily to disease. Part of their territory has been used by coca growers, ranchers and other settlers and occupied by guerrillas, army and paramilitaries. Responses to this crisis include protests, requests for assimilation, and the suicide of leader Maw-be'. Some 210–250 are estimated to live in provisional settlements at San José del Guaviare, while about as many live nomadically in the Nukak Reservation (\"Resguardo\").\n\nNukak are expert hunters. The men hunt using blowguns, with darts coated with curare \"manyi\", a poison made from different plants (curares). They specially hunt several species of monkeys (\"Alouatta\" spp., \"Cebus\" spp., \"Saimiri\" sp., \"Lagothrix\" spp., \"Ateles\" sp., \"Saguinus\" spp., \"Callicebus torquatus\"), and birds (Muscovy duck, chachalacas, guans, curassows, grey-winged trumpeter and toucans). Also they use javelins of \"Socratea exorrhiza\" palm wood to hunt two species of peccaries (\"Tayassu pecari\" and \"T. tajacu\") and spectacled caimans, whose eggs they consume too. Nukak neither hunt nor eat brocket deer, \"Odocoileus virginianus\" and tapirs (\"Tapirus terrestris\"); these animals are considered by them as part of the same group of origin as human beings.\n\nThe Nukak also capture rodents (\"Cuniculus\" sp., \"Dasyprocta\" spp.); armadillos (\"Dasypus\" sp.) tortoises (\"Geochelone\" sp); frogs (in large quantities); crabs; shrimps; snails; larvae of palm weevils (mojojoy, \"mun\", \"Rhynchophorus\" spp.); larvae of several species of wasps and caterpillars.\n\nThe Nukak eat several species of fish, like \"Hoplias\" sp., \"Myloplus\" spp., \"Mylossoma\" spp., \"Hydrolycus\" sp., \"Cichla\" sp., surubí (\"Pseudoplatystoma fasciatum\"), catfishes (\"Brachyplatystoma\" spp.), piranhas (\"Serrasalmus\" spp., \"Pygocentrus\" spp.) and river rays (\"Potamotrygon\" sp.). Lately, part of this activity is done using cord and metal fishooks, although the Nukak, to this day, still catch their fish in the traditional way, with bow and arrow or harpoons, traps or baskets (\"mei\", water cages). They also use a very sophisticated technique that has been reported in several cultures. This technique uses \"nuún\", the root of a \"Lonchocarpus\" sp. that contains a number of substances that when dissolved in the water streams stun the fish, making them an easy catch for the Nukak.\n\nThey collect honey of twenty species of bees and many fruits: palm fruits (\"Jessenia bataua\"), \"Oenocarpus\" spp., \"Attalea\" spp., \"Mauritia\" sp., \"Phenakospermum guyannense\", \"Aechmea\" sp., \"Inga\" sp., \"Couma macrocarpa\", \"Iryanthera\" sp., \"Theobroma\" spp., \"Pourouma\" spp., \"Parinari\" sp., \"Micrandra\" sp., \"Helicostylis\" sp., \"Caryocar\" sp., \"Talisia\" sp., \"Hymenaea\" sp., \"Dacryodes\" spp., \"Abuta\" sp., \"Eugenia\" spp., \"Touraleia\" sp., \"Perebea\" spp., \"Protium\" sp., \"Cecropia\" sp., 'Batocarpus\" sp., \"Hyeronima\" sp., \"Brosimum\" sp., \"Dialium\" sp., \"Garcinia\" sp., \"Manilkara\" sp., \"Naucleopsis\" spp., \"Pradosia\" sp., \"Pouteria\" sp., \"Salasia\" sp., \"Passiflora\" spp., \"Duroia maguirei\", \"Duroia hirsuta\", \"Mouriri\" sp., \"Alibertia\" sp..\n\nNukak take the sweet resin from \"mupabuat\" (\"Lacunal\" sp.) and the rattan water (\"Doliocarpus\" sp.). They collect vegetal materials like the elements necessary to cover their encampments \"wopyi\" (with leaves of \"Phenakospermum guyannense\" and palms); to make their hammocks (with fiber of the cumare palm \"Astrocaryum\" sp.), moorings (\"Heteropsis tenuispadix\", \"Eschweilera\" sp., \"Anthurium\" sp.), blowguns (\"Iriartella stigera\", \"Bactris maraja\"), bows (\"Duguetia quitarensis\"), axe ends (\"Aspidosperma\" sp.), darts (thorns of \"Oneocarpus\" sp.), quivers for the darts (leaves of \"Calathea\" sp.), milkweed to assure the darts (\"Pachira nukakika\", \"Ceiba\" sp., \"Pseudobombax\" sp.), loinclothes for men (\"Couratari guianensis\"), baskets (\"Heteropsis\" spp.), disposable bags (\"Ischnosiphon arouma\", \"Heliconia\" sp.), soap (\"Cedrelinga\" sp.), perfumes (\"Myroxylon\" sp., \"Justice pectoralis\") and diverse objects.\n\nThey make blades with the teeth of piranha, but lately they also use metallic ones. Until 1990 they practised pottery in small scale, producing a small kind of pot to take with them on their travels and a second, bigger kind, to leave as supplies in their key camping sites. Today they prefer to obtain metallic pots. When they do not have matches or lighters, they use special wood (\"Pausandra trianae\") to produce fire. At present time they do not make mirrors with the resin of \"Trattinickia glaziovii\" nor stone axes like they did in past times.\n\nThe marriage, base of the domestic group, is settled after the man has formally courted the woman with accepted gifts and she has acceded to live with him. In order to look for a pairing, a man must have gone through an initiation ritual in which he endures several penalties and difficulties, to demonstrate the fundamental abilities for the subsistence and consumes a hallucinogen (\"Virola\" sp.).\n\nThe most suitable couple is one made up by crossed cousins. Parallel cousins marriage is forbidden, that being the reason why each man looks for a suitable woman in groups where his maternal sisters and aunts are married and therefore the unmarried are eligible. If the woman still lives in the home of the father, the gifts must include him. If the woman accepts, she settles down in the encampment of the man and if they have a child then they are considered a formal pair, which establishes mutual relations of kinship, expressed in rights and duties of reciprocity.\n\nA man can marry several wives, although a single wife is most common, and examples of three or more are rare. This polygyny coexists with a temporal polyandry during the pregnancy in order to improve the qualities of the baby.\n\nEach domestic group is part of a territorial group and other groups that are established to perform specific duties like security measures, according to the different stations and situations. On the other hand, each Núkâk is considered as part of a paternal lineage, \"nüwayi\", named with an animal or plant.\n\nTen territorial Nukak groups have been identified, at least each one with 50 or 60 people, who most of the year do not remain together but form different groups for harvesting and/or hunting that are distributed in accordance with the climatic seasonal changes and the security situation. In certain special occasions different groups join, after they practice a special ritual, \"entiwat\", in which the groups dance face to face, striking and verbally injuring each other until the ritual reaches a climatic moment in which they all embrace, weeping while they remember their ancestors and express affection. The groups practice a form of exchange, \"ihinihat\", especially when all the resources are not in the same territory.\n\nIt is considered taboo for the Nukak to discuss dead people.\n\nNukak people speak a tonal Nadahup language.\n\nThe Nukak have already suffered the devastation of their population by malaria, measles and pulmonary diseases since their contact with the New Tribes Mission and other outsiders beginning in 1981; now, coca growers, left-wing FARC guerillas, right-wing AUC paramilitaries and the Colombian army have occupied their lands. These aboriginals have therefore become embroiled in Colombia's armed conflict. In 2006, a group of nearly 80 Nukak left the jungle and sought assimilation along with cultural preservation. As one of the migrants, Pia-pe, put it: \"We do want to join the white family, but we do not want to forget words of the Nukak.\" In October 2006, leader and Nukak Spanish speaker Maw-be' committed suicide by drinking poison; friends and the National Indigenous Organization of Colombia (ONIC) described him as in desperation in his inability to secure supplies or a safe return to their homeland for the Nukak. \n\nNiall Ferguson cites them as an example of a hunter-gathering tribe which, hitherto ignorant of a money economy, has shown itself happy to exchange an arduous traditional life in their jungle homelands for a subsistence existence based on government handouts at the periphery of a globalized world of finance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6885104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6885104", "title": "Oxford Forum", "text": "Oxford Forum\n\nOxford Forum is a research organisation based in Oxfordshire, founded in 1998 by Celia Green and three academic colleagues, to promote and publish dissident views in philosophy, psychology, economics and sociology.\n\nIts current principal contributors, apart from Green, are Charles McCreery and Fabian Tassano.\n\nCelia Green, \"Advice to Clever Children\". \n\nCelia Green, \"The Lost Cause: An Analysis of Causation\". \n\nCelia Green, \"Letters from Exile: Observations on a Culture in Decline\". \n\nCelia Green, \"The Human Evasion\". \n\nCelia Green, \"The Decline and Fall of Science\". \n\nCharles McCreery, \"The Abolition of Genius\". Foreword by Professor H.J. Eysenck, PhD, DSc.\n\nFabian Tassano, \"The Power of Life or Death: Medical Coercion and the Euthanasia Debate\". \n\nFabian Tassano, \"Mediocracy: Inversions and Deceptions in an Egalitarian Culture\". \n\nCelia Green, 'Hindrances to the progress of research'\n\nCelia Green, 'Freedom and the exceptional child'\n\nCharles McCreery, 'Perception and Hallucination: The Case for Continuity'\n\nCharles McCreery, 'Dreams and Psychosis: a New Look at an Old Hypothesis'\n\nCharles McCreery, 'The Chi-square test'\n\nCharles McCreery, 'Probability and Bayes' Theorem'\n\nCharles McCreery, 'Analysis of Variance'\n\nCharles McCreery, 'Mean, median, mode and skewness'\n\nCharles McCreery, 'The t-test and the Mann-Whitney U test'\n\nFabian Tassano, 'The meaning of mediocracy'\n\nFabian Tassano, 'The new academia'\n\nFabian Tassano, 'Legal certainty'\n\nFabian Tassano, 'Legal uncertainty and counter-terrorism'\n\nFabian Tassano, 'Scapegoating the older generation'\n\nFabian Tassano, 'Fairness and the triple lock'\n\n"}
{"id": "3166760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3166760", "title": "Patriotic Oath (Philippines)", "text": "Patriotic Oath (Philippines)\n\nThe Patriotic Oath () is one of two national pledges of the Philippines, the other being the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag (). It is commonly recited in schools during morning flag ceremony after the \"Lupang Hinirang\" is sung but before recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag.\n\nRecitation of the \"Panatà\" is required by law at all public and private educational institutions meant for Filipinos or containing a majority of Filipino nationals. This guideline was set in Republic Act No. 1265, one of many national symbols laws, which was approved on 11 July 1955. The act was implemented in schools through Department Order No. 8 of what is now the Department of Education, which was approved on 21 July 1955. The \"Panatà\" was revised in November 2001 by then Secretary of Education Raul Roco, using shorter lines in less formal Tagalog.\n\nAlthough Department Order No. 8 states that the \"Panatà\" may be recited in English or any Philippine language, the \"Panatà\" is usually recited today in Filipino, of which two versions exist: the current text is a shorter, poetic (poetic meaning it's created under Roco's image or ideals, not the ideal of all) rendering of the English original, while the older version is a more direct translation.\n\nIn 1993, sixty-eight students from the sect Jehovah's Witnesses (JW) were expelled from a school in Cebu for their failure to salute the flag, sing the Philippine National Anthem, and recite the patriotic oath. A teacher in the same school, also a JW adherent was fired from her job for the same offense. According to JW teachings, flag ceremonies, flag salutes, and patriotic oaths are viewed as acts of worship or religious devotion, the latter two of which they believe can only be rendered to God alone and not anyone nor anything. The JW's consider the flag an image and honoring the flag idolatry.\n\nThe case was brought to court wherein the Cebu Division Superintendent argued that the students and the teacher violated Republic Act No. 1265, the law that makes flag ceremony compulsory for all schools, citing the case of Gerona et al v. Secretary of Education. Superintendent also argued of separation of church and state, stating the flag is devoid of religious significance and does not involve any religious ceremony, and that giving JW's right to exemption disrupt school discipline and demoralize the rest of the school population which by far constitutes the great majority.\n\nThe Court ruled in favor of the expelled JW students and the fired JW teacher, on the grounds that expulsion due to religious beliefs is invalid. They also stated of freedom of religion in the 1987 Constitution of the Philippines:\n\nEvidence also showed that even if they do not take part in the compulsory flag ceremony, they never engaged in “external acts” or behavior that would offend the people who believe in expressing their love of country through the observance of the flag ceremony. The expelled only quietly stood at attention during the flag ceremony to show their respect for the right of those who choose to participate in the solemn proceedings. \n\nThe students were later allowed to re-enroll in the school they were expelled from and the teacher was allowed to resume her duties.\n\n"}
{"id": "40142750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40142750", "title": "Peng's Coefficient", "text": "Peng's Coefficient\n\nPeng’s Coefficient is an economic term which refers to the proportion of an individual’s spending on culture- and spirit-related products or services, such as books, movie, opera, concert, travelling, training and so forth, to her/his total expenditure. Peng’s Coefficient is inversely proportional to Engel’s Coefficient, because the more proportion people spend on food, the less proportion on culture and spirit.\nThe concept was named after its creator Peng Bing from China.\nEquation: P=S/T\n"}
{"id": "16401301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16401301", "title": "Persona 4", "text": "Persona 4\n\nPersona 4 is a role-playing video game developed and published by Atlus for Sony's PlayStation 2, and chronologically the fifth installment in the \"Persona\" series, itself a part of the larger \"Megami Tensei\" franchise. The game was released in Japan in July 2008, North America in December 2008, and Europe in March 2009. \"Persona 4\" takes place in a fictional Japanese countryside and is indirectly related to earlier \"Persona\" games. The player-named protagonist is a high-school student who moved into the countryside from the city for a year. During his year-long stay, he becomes involved in investigating mysterious murders while harnessing the power of summoning Persona. The game features a weather forecast system with events happening on foggy days to replace the moon phase system implemented in the previous games.\n\nThe plot of \"Persona 4\" was inspired by the work of mystery novelists owing to its murder mystery premise. The rural setting was based on a town on the outskirts of Mount Fuji and intended as a \"'nowhere' place\" and is the central setting to have players sympathize with the daily life of the characters. The developers added many in-game events to prevent the game from becoming stale. During the localization, numerous alterations to names and cultural references were made to preserve the effect through translation, but some Japanese cultural references were altered or removed. The release of the game in Japan was accompanied by merchandise such as character costumes and accessories. The North American package of the game was released with a CD with selected music from the game, and, unlike \"Persona 3\", the European package also contained a soundtrack CD. The game's score was primarily composed by Shoji Meguro, with vocals performed by Shihoko Hirata.\n\nThe game was positively received by critics and developed into a full franchise. An enhanced version of the game for the PlayStation Vita, Persona 4 Golden, was released in 2012. Various other manga and light novel adaptations and spin-offs have been produced. An anime television adaptation by AIC ASTA, titled \"\", began airing in Japan in October 2011, with an anime adaptation of \"Persona 4 Golden\" airing in July 2014. The game has also spawned two fighting game sequels, \"Persona 4 Arena\" and \"Persona 4 Arena Ultimax\", and a rhythm game, \"\".\n\n\"Persona 4\" blends traditional RPG gameplay with simulation elements. The player controls the game's protagonist, a teenage boy who is named by the player, who comes to the town of Inaba for a year. Gameplay is divided between the real world of Inaba, where the protagonist carries out his daily life, and the mysterious \"TV World\", where various dungeons filled with monsters known as Shadows await. With the exception of scripted events, such as plot progression or special events, players can choose to spend their day how they like, be it participating in various real world activities, such as joining school clubs, taking part-time jobs, or reading books, or exploring the TV World's dungeons to gain experience and items. Days are broken up into various times of day, the most frequently recurring being \"After School/Daytime\" and \"Evening\", with most activities causing time to move on. Certain activities are limited depending on the time of day, days of the week, and the weather, with most evening activities unavailable if the player visits the TV World that day. Furthermore, some activities and dialogue choices may be limited by the protagonist's five attributes; Understanding, Diligence, Courage, Knowledge, and Expression, which can be increased by performing certain activities that build them. Whilst the player is free to choose how to spend their time, if they fail to rescue someone who is trapped in the TV World by the time fog appears in town, which takes place after several days of consecutive rain, that person will get killed by the shadows and the game will end, forcing the player to return to a week prior. As the game progresses, the protagonist forms friendships with other characters known as \"Social Links\", which are each represented by one of the Major Arcana. As these bonds strengthen, the Social Links increase in Rank, which grant bonuses when creating new Personas in the Velvet Room. Additionally, strengthening Social Links with the main party members grant them additional abilities, such as the ability to perform a follow-up attack or an additional ability for their Persona.\n\nThe main focus of the game revolves around Personas, avatars projected from one's inner self that resemble mythological figures and represent the façades worn by individuals to face life's hardships. Each Persona possesses its own skills, as well as strengths and weaknesses to certain attributes. As Personas gain experience from battle and level up, that Persona can learn new skills, which include offensive or support abilities used in battle, or passive skills that grant the character benefits. Each Persona can carry up to eight skills at a time, with older skills needing to be forgotten in order to learn new ones. Whilst each of the main party members have their own unique Persona, which transforms into a stronger form after maxing out their Social Link, the protagonist has the \"Wild Card\" ability to wield multiple Personas, which he can switch between during battle to access different movesets. The player can earn new Personas from Shuffle Time, with the protagonist able to carry more Personas as he levels up. Outside of the dungeons, the player can visit the Velvet Room, where players can create new Personas, or summon previously acquired Personas for a fee. New Personas are created by fusing two or more monsters to create a new one, which receives some of the skills passed down from its material monsters. The level of Personas that can be created are limited by the protagonist's current level. If the player has built up a Social Link relating to a particular Arcana, then a Persona relating to that Arcana will receive a bonus upon creation.\n\nInside the TV World, the player assembles a party, consisting of the protagonist and up to three other characters, to explore randomly generated dungeons, each tailored around a victim who had been kidnapped. On each floor of a dungeon, the player may find roaming Shadows, as well as treasure chests containing items and equipment. Players progress through the dungeon by finding the stairs somewhere on each floor to progress to the next, eventually reaching the final floor where a boss enemy awaits. The player enters battle upon coming into contact with a Shadow. The player can gain an advantage by attacking the Shadow from behind, whilst being attacked from behind themselves will give the enemy an advantage. Similar to the \"Press Turn\" system used in other \"Shin Megami Tensei\" games, battles are turn-based with characters fighting enemies using their equipped weapons, items, or the special skills of their Personas. Aside from the protagonist, who is controlled directly, the other characters can either be given direct commands or be assigned 'Tactics' which alter their battle AI. If the protagonist loses all of his HP, the game ends, returning players to the title screen.\n\nOffensive abilities carry several attributes, including Physical, Fire, Ice, Wind, Electricity, Light, Dark and Almighty. As well as various enemies carrying different attributes, player characters may also have strengths or weaknesses against certain attacks depending on their Persona or equipment. By exploiting an enemy's weakness or performing a critical attack, the player can knock them over, granting the attacking character an additional move, whilst the enemy may also be granted an additional move if they target a player character's weakness. If the player knocks all of the enemies down, they may be granted the opportunity to perform an \"All-Out Attack\", in which all the players rush the downed enemies to inflict heavy damage. Following a battle, players gain experience points, money, and items from their battle. Sometimes after a battle, the player may participate in a mini-game known as \"Shuffle: Time\" and \"Arcana Chance\", which can grant player new Personas or various bonuses respectively.\n\n\"Persona 4\" takes place in the fictional, rural Japanese town of , which lies among floodplains and has its own high school and shopping districts. Unexplained murders have taken place in the small town, where bodies are found dangling from television antennas and their cause of death being unknown. At the same time, rumor has begun to spread that watching a switched-off television set on rainy midnights will reveal a person's soulmate. The game also follows the main characters into the TV World, a fog-shrouded realm filled with monsters called Shadows, which can only be accessed through TV sets.\n\nThe protagonist is a high school student, named Yu Narukami in later media, who has recently moved from the city to attend school at Inaba. At school, he quickly becomes friends with Yosuke Hanamura, the somewhat-clumsy son of the manager of the local Junes megastore; Chie Satonaka, an energetic girl with a strong interest in martial arts; and Yukiko Amagi, a calm and refined girl who helps out at her family's inn. A few days into the game, the protagonist, Yosuke, and Chie follow the \"Midnight Channel\" rumor, which leads them to discover the TV World and meet Teddie, a friendly creature that appears as a hollow bear costume. Using Personas, the students form an Investigation Team to investigate the connection between the TV world and the murders, and possibly capture the culprit. As the game progresses, the group gains new members, including: Kanji Tatsumi, a male delinquent who has a talent for feminine hobbies; Rise Kujikawa, a former teen idol trying to find her identity who moves to Inaba as a transfer student; and Naoto Shirogane, a young female detective investigating the case with the local police who wears masculine clothing and presents herself as male due to fear of rejection.\n\nOn April 11, 2011, the protagonist arrives in Inaba to live with the Dojimas, consisting of his uncle Ryotaro and his cousin Nanako, for one year, as his parents are working abroad. Just after his arrival, a TV announcer is found dead, her body hanging from an antenna; Saki Konishi, the high school student who had discovered the body, is later found dead herself, hung upside-down from a telephone pole. After the protagonist and his friends accidentally enter the TV world, they encounter Teddie, who helps them travel freely between the TV and real worlds. They awaken their Persona abilities, realizing that the murders stem from attacks by Shadows, beings native to the TV world created from repressed emotions, and are able to rescue several would-be victims. Yosuke, Chie, Yukiko, Kanji, Rise, and Teddie one by one come to accept the parts of their psyches they rejected, which manifest as giant Shadows in the TV world, allowing them to wield Personas whilst each joins the group in turn. Mitsuo Kubo, a student from another high school who disappears following the death of Kinshiro Morooka, the protagonist's foul-mouthed homeroom teacher, claims credit for the murders; it is eventually learned that Kubo only killed Morooka and played no part in the other murders, having murdered Morooka simply to gain credit for the other murders. Naoto Shirogane, a nationally renowned \"Detective Prince\" investigating the case, is also rescued and gains a Persona, and joins the group who learn that \"he\" is actually a girl who assumed a male identity to avoid the police's sexism.\n\nEvents come to a head when Ryotaro Dojima mistakenly accuses the protagonist of being involved in the murders. Nanako is kidnapped during the protagonist's interrogation, leading Ryotaro to engage in a vehicular pursuit with the culprit. The chase ends as they both crash; the kidnapper escapes with Nanako through a television set in his truck, and the gravely-injured Ryotaro entrusts her rescue to the group. The group tracks them down within the TV world; the culprit, Taro Namatame, becomes a god-like monster—Kunino-sagiri—which attacks them but is defeated, and both he and Nanako are taken to the Inaba hospital. When Nanako appears to die, the group furiously confronts Namatame; as the protagonist, the player must help the others realize that Namatame is not the killer by pointing out the lack of a proper motive, and subsequently work to determine that Ryotaro's assistant, Tohru Adachi, is the true killer. Deciding to throw Namatame into the TV results in Nanako remaining dead, while sparing him will result in her being miraculously revived. Failure to deduce the real killer's identity results in the mystery going unsolved. Killing Namatame or failing to solve the mystery results in the recurring fog permanently setting in, which will eventually lead to humanity's demise.\n\nHaving identified the culprit as Adachi, the party chases and locates him within the TV world. Adachi explains that his actions were out of both boredom and the belief that humanity is better off believing what it wants; his claims are dismissed by the party as the rantings of a madman. After fighting Adachi, he is possessed by Ameno-sagiri, the Japanese God of Fog, who reveals that the fog is harmful to people and will eventually cause humanity to fall into a permanent state of ignorance and transform into Shadows. Upon his defeat, he agrees to lift the fog, congratulating the party on their resolve. Defeated, the wounded Adachi agrees to assume responsibility for his actions and turns himself in. The game moves forward to the day before the protagonist must travel home. If the player returns to the Dojima residence, the game ends with the party sending the protagonist off as he departs Inaba. Alternatively, should the player be able to identify the unexplained cause of the Midnight Channel and attempt to resolve this plot element, the protagonist meets with the party, and together they decide to end the case for good.\n\nThe protagonist confronts the gas station attendant encountered at the start of the game, who reveals herself to be the Japanese goddess Izanami, the \"conductor\" behind the game's events. The cause of the recurring fog is established as an attempt to create a world of illusion by merging the TV world with the human world, all for the \"sake\" of humanity. The group tracks Izanami down within the TV world and battle her, but is at first unable to win; the defeated protagonist is given strength by the bonds he has forged with those around him, and with this power awakens a new Persona—Izanagi-no-Okami—which he uses to defeat Izanami. In doing so, the fog in each world is lifted, and the TV world is restored to its original form. The game ends with the party sending the protagonist off the following day, and a post-credits scene depicts the group resolving to remain friends forever, as the protagonist examines a photo of the party.\n\n\"Persona 4 Golden\" adds two new Social Links to the game; Adachi and Marie, a mysterious girl who becomes an assistant in the Velvet Room and wishes to uncover her lost memories.\n\nIf the player advances Adachi's Social Link to a certain level, they are given the choice to withhold his identity as the killer from the rest of the Investigation Team, thus leaving the mystery unsolved. On the protagonist's final day in Inaba, he may choose to visit Adachi and destroy a crucial piece of evidence related to the case. Adachi then blackmails the protagonist, threatening to have him arrested for destroying evidence if he does not answer his calls. The game's ending then plays out the same, after the credits, the protagonist passes by Adachi at a level crossing. He clutches his phone in his hand as a smirk forms on Adachi's face.\n\nAfter the Investigation Team defeats Ameno-sagiri, Marie disappears from the Velvet Room, and Margaret promises to find her for the protagonist. The Investigation Team decide to take a skiing trip together, during which time they stumble upon a cabin with a TV inside. The TV turns out to be a portal to the Hollow Forest, where Marie has fled to. With the Hollow Forest on the verge of collapsing, the Investigation Team rushes to save her; if they fail to do so, Marie disappears from their memories. They find Marie, who reveals that she is Kusumi-no-Okami, created to act as a spy for Ameno-sagiri in order to learn what humanity wished for; with Ameno-sagiri defeated, the fog has now been absorbed into her body. Marie's plan is to kill herself so that the fog will not spread over the world again, but the Investigation Team refuses to allow her to die, defeating her and freeing her from the fog's control.\n\nAfter defeating Izanami-no-Okami, Marie reveals that she is actually Izanami-no-Mikoto, a goddess who originally wished to both protect humanity and grant it's wishes, but as people changed and stopped wishing for truth, her wishes splintered into her and Izanami-no-Okami. With Kunino-sagiri, Ameno-sagiri, and Izanami-no-Okami fused with her, she becomes whole again and disappears from the Velvet Room. The true ending then plays out, with the game then skipping a few months after the last scene of the true ending (and after the events of \"Persona 4 Arena Ultimax\"), where the protagonist returns to Inaba for the summer. Upon exiting the train station, they discover that Namatame is running for mayor in order to atone for his previous actions. The protagonist will eventually meet up with his friends, who changed since the last time they all met, and will head to the Dojima household, where a surprise party was set up earlier by Dojima.\n\nWhile eating, the protagonist learns about the recent changes in the neighborhood, is informed that Adachi has become a model prisoner, and sees Marie on the news as the popular new weather girl. Depending on the player's choices, she may also declare her love for him while the main group watches on, much to their disbelief. Nanako will then whisper something into everyone's ear before they all welcome the protagonist \"home\". As the rest of the Investigation Team starts to criticize Kanji for saying something different than everyone else, the protagonist responds by smiling brightly, and a new post-credits scene shows another group picture of the protagonist and his friends including Marie all smiling together.\n\nAccording to the game director Katsura Hashino, while \"ideas [had been] thrown around earlier\", development on \"Persona 4\" in Japan did not begin until after the release of \"Persona 3\". The development team consisted of the team from \"Persona 3\" and new hires which included fans of \"Persona 3\". Atlus intended to improve both the gameplay and story elements of \"Persona 3\" for the new game, to ensure it was not seen as a \"retread\" of its predecessor. Hashino said that \"to accomplish that, we tried to give the players of Persona 4 a definite goal and a sense of purpose that would keep motivating them as they played through the game. The murder mystery plot was our way of doing that.\" The plot of \"Persona 4\" was \"greatly inspired\", according to Hashino, by mystery novelists such as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Agatha Christie and Seishi Yokomizo. \"Persona 4\" was officially unveiled in the Japanese gaming magazine \"Famitsu\" in March 2008. An article in the issue detailed the game's murder mystery premise, rural setting, and new weather forecast system. The game's North American release date was announced at the 2008 Anime Expo in Los Angeles, California. Atlus would not make an add-on disc or epilogue for \"Persona 4\", as had been done with the \"Persona 3 FES\". \"Persona 4\" allowed players full control of characters in battle. This was due to negative comments from players about most of the player team in \"Persona 3\" being controlled by the game's AI. The amount of data the team ended up incorporating around school life, character relationships and spoke character dialogue was so large that there were fears it would not fit onto a single disc. The anime cutscenes were produced by Studio Hibari.\n\nThe design of Inaba is based on a town on the outskirts of Mount Fuji. Its rural design was a source of conflict between \"Persona 4\"s developers, as \"each staff member had their own image of a rural town\", according to director Katsura Hashino. The entire staff went \"location hunting\" to determine Inaba's design. Inaba does not represent \"a country town that has tourist attractions\", but rather a non-notable, \"'nowhere' place\". Hashino described the town as being \"for better or for worse... a run-of-the-mill town\". Unlike other role-playing games, which may have large worlds for the player to explore, \"Persona 4\" mostly takes place in Inaba. This reduced development costs, and enabled Atlus \"to expand other portions of the game\" in return. A central setting also allows players to \"sympathize with the daily life that passes in the game\". To prevent the setting from becoming stale, the development team established a set number of in-game events to be created to \"keep the game exciting\". The choice of Japanese mythical figures for the characters' Personas as opposed to the Graeco-Roman deities used in earlier games was directly inspired by the new setting. The appearances of Personas were based on the characters' personalities. The design team had a good deal of creative freedom while creating Personas, because although Japanese deities have well-defined character traits, their appearances are traditionally unspecified. The Shadows were created by Hashino without much outside consultation, although he had help from female staff for female Shadow selves.\n\nDespite living in the countryside, \"Persona 4\" characters were designed to look and sound \"normal\" and like \"modern high-schoolers\", according to lead editor Nich Maragos. Initially, he wrote the game's cast as being \"more rural than was really called for\". \"The characters aren't really hicks... They just happen to live in a place that's not a major metropolitan area.\" While interviewing members of \"Persona 4\"s development team, 1UP.com editor Andrew Fitch noted that the characters from the city — Yosuke and the protagonist — have \"more stylish\" hair than the other characters. Art director Shigenori Soejima used hair styles to differentiate between characters from the city versus the country. \"With Yosuke in particular, I gave him accessories, such as headphones and a bicycle, to make it more obvious that he was from the city.\"\n\nAs with \"Persona 3\", the localization of \"Persona 4\" was handled by Yu Namba and Nich Maragos of Atlus USA. In addition, there were four translators and two further editors. The Social Links were divided equally between the translators and editors. During localization of the game, character's names were altered for the international audience for familiarity, including Kuma being renamed Teddie. A similar change was done for Rise Kujikawa's stage name, in Japan, to \"Risette\". Nanba also explained the change from \"Community\" to \"Social Link\", regarding the gameplay mechanic, as \"community\" has a different meaning in English, whereas Igor in his speeches often refers to \"society\" and \"bonds\". Names were also altered for pun and other linguistic effect including dungeon items' names, such as the \"Kae Rail\" becoming the \"Goho-M\", as the item's use of returning the player to the entrance was taken to be \"go home\". Some Japanese cultural references that would not transfer were also removed, such as references to Kosuke Kindaichi. There were also some issues regarding the translation of the names of Yukiko, Kanji and Rise's dungeons, as the English names were made to fit the original Japanese graphics, and the \"Void Quest\" dungeon's graphics were specifically made to harken back to the Famicom. He also remarked on how popular the interpretations of Kanji's Shadow were in the west, and how it did not change how the character was seen by the other audience. A different change was the fact the main characters in the English dub referred to others members of the cast on a first-name basis, while the Japanese version differed in this regard. For the dub, the editors sometimes switched between first-name and last-name referral for dramatic effect.\n\nAtlus's senior project manager Masaru Nanba commented it was decided that \"Shin Megami Tensei\" was to be kept in the title of \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4\", as it was believed that they were part of the same series as \"\"; however, the \"Shin Megami Tensei\" title was omitted from both \"Persona 4 Golden\" and \"Persona 4 Arena\", as it would have been much too long. Similarly, \"Persona 4: The Ultimate in Mayonaka Arena\" and \"Persona 4: The Golden\" were shortened to the previously stated titles. As with \"Persona 3\", the honorifics used in the Japanese voice track were retained in the English dub, despite proving contentions among series fans. This was done as part of an intended trend to remain faithful to the original source material. The pronunciations of honorifics, along with the sounds of names, were a point that was carefully considered by the localization team and it took a while for the English cast to get used to them. A member of the English dub that also appeared in \"Persona 3\" was Yuri Lowenthal. Though he had dubbed characters in \"Persona 3\", Namba wanted him to have a larger part. His role as Yosuke ended up featuring 1000 more lines of dialogue than the other major characters. Important roles for the localization team were Teddie and Rise, as they would be the party's supports. Another element in the English script was that the use of swear words was increased over \"Persona 3\": the first draft featured very strong language which was cut as it did not seem suited. The character Kanji was given a lot of swearing in his dialogue, due to his volatile nature. The use of swearing was carefully considered depending on the emotional situation.\n\nThe game's original score was primarily composed, arranged, and produced by Shoji Meguro. The soundtrack features songs with vocals by Shihoko Hirata, whom Meguro felt was able to meet the range of emotion needed for the soundtrack, with the lyrics being written by Reiko Tanaka. Meguro was given a rough outline of the game's plot and worked on the music in the same manner and simultaneously with the development of the story and spoken dialog, starting with the overall shape of the songs and eventually working on the finer details. According to Meguro, the songs \"Pursuing My True Self\" and \"Reach Out to the Truth\" were composed to reflect the inner conflicts of the game's main characters; the former song, used as the opening theme, helped to set an understanding of the characters' conflicts, while the latter, used in battle sequences, emphasized the \"strength of these characters to work through their internal struggles.\" The \"Aria of the Soul\" theme used in the Velvet Room, a concept common to all the \"Persona\" games, remained relatively unchanged, with Meguro believing \"the shape of the song had been well-defined\" from previous games. Composers Atsushi Kitajoh and Ryota Kozuka also contributed music for the game. Kitajoh, who had previously written music for Atlus with \"Growlanser VI\" and \"\", contributed four themes to \"Persona 4\", while Kozuka wrote the \"Theme of Junes\".\n\n\"Persona 4\"s two-disc soundtrack was released in Japan by Aniplex on July 23, 2008. The soundtrack was also released in North America. The side A of the soundtrack is the bonus disc packaged with each game, while side B of the soundtrack was part of Amazon.com's exclusive \"Persona 4 Social Link Expansion Pack\". Similarly to \"Persona 3\", a \"Reincarnation\" album, titled \"Never More\", was released in Japan on October 26, 2011, featuring full length cuts of the game's vocal tracks and extended mixes of some of the instrumental tracks. \"Never More\" made it to the top of both the Oricon Weekly Album Charts and \"Billboard\"s Japan Top Albums chart for the week of its release, selling nearly 27,000 copies.\n\n\"Persona 4 Golden\", released in Japan as \"Persona 4: The Golden\", was announced in August 2011 as a port of \"Persona 4\" for the portable PlayStation Vita. It was originally planned by Atlus to be a PlayStation Portable title, similar to \"Persona 3 Portable\", which would have required removing some of the features of the PlayStation 2 game. However, the Vita provided sufficient resources that allowed Atlus to expand the game. It is an expanded version of the PlayStation 2 title, adding new features and story elements to the game. A new character named Marie was added to the story. Additional Personas, character outfits, and expanded spoken lines and anime cutscenes are included as well as two new Social Links for Marie and Tohru Adachi. The game supports the wireless networking features of the Vita, allowing a player to call in help from other players to help in dungeon battles. Another new feature is a garden that produces items the player can use in the various dungeons. The game was released in Japan on June 14, 2012. \"Persona 4: The Golden\" is also the first \"Persona\" game to be released in traditional Chinese.\n\nThe release of \"Persona 4: The Golden\" resulted in the surge of sales of PlayStation Vitas. During its debut week, the game sold 137,076 units in Japan. Media Create stated that the game's outstanding sales that surpassed the debuts of other titles from \"Persona\" series may be due to the exposure the \"Persona 4\" game has had in other forms of media. As of mid-July 2012, the game had sold 193,412 units in Japan. The game was the eighth most purchased digital Vita game on the Japanese PlayStation Network in 2013. As of April 2014, the game shipped 350,000 copies in Japan, and over 700,000 copies were shipped worldwide as of December 2013.\n\nA soundtrack was released in Japan on June 27, 2012, consisting of a single disc of 15 new tracks composed and arranged by Shoji Meguro and Atsushi Kitajoh.\n\nIn an interview with RPGamer at E3 2012, Atlus USA revealed that in terms of bonus content in the special \"TV Channel\" feature, the US release would have all of the content the Japanese version has, with only one or two commercials missing. It was released for the PlayStation Vita on November 20, 2012. A special 10,000 copies were also released on November 20, 2012, as the \"Solid Gold Premium Edition\". NIS America released the game in Europe on February 22, 2013.\n\nA fighting game sequel, \"Persona 4 Arena\", known in Japan as \"Persona 4: The Ultimate in Mayonaka Arena\", was developed by Arc System Works, the company known for creating the \"Guilty Gear\" and \"BlazBlue\" series, and released in 2012 for arcades, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. As with the anime, the protagonist is named Yu Narukami. , Mitsuru, Elizabeth, and Akihiko from \"Persona 3\" are also featured in the game. Set two months following the True Ending of the original game, the members of the Investigation Team are pulled back into the television and forced into a fighting tournament called the \"P-1 Grand Prix\" hosted by Teddie.\n\nA sequel, \"Persona 4 Arena Ultimax\", was released in Japanese arcades in November 2013, and for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in late 2014. Taking place a day after the events of \"Arena\", the Investigation Team must defeat their Shadows in a new tournament, the \"P-1 Climax\", in order to rescue the captive Shadow Operatives and stop the spread of a mysterious red fog engulfing Inaba. The game adds seven playable characters from \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4 Golden\", as well as a new playable antagonist, Sho Minazuki.\n\n\"\" is a dungeon-crawler RPG developed for the Nintendo 3DS, which features characters from both \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4\", as well as gameplay elements from the \"Etrian Odyssey\" series. Set midway through the events of \"Persona 4\", the Investigation Team is pulled into an alternate version of Yasogami High and must work with the members of SEES to find a means of escape. The game was released in Japan on June 5, 2014, North America on November 25, 2014 and Europe on November 28, 2014.\n\n\"\" is a rhythm game developed by Atlus for the PlayStation Vita, featuring music from the \"Persona\" series. The game takes place half a year following the events of \"Persona 4\", as the Investigation Team look into a mysterious \"Midnight Stage\", which is abducting girls from Rise's idol group. The game was released in Japan on June 25, 2015.\n\nWith the release of \"Persona 4\", Atlus has also produced a line of merchandise, including action figures, published materials, toys and clothes. Atlus collaborated with the Japanese publishing company Enterbrain to publish the game's two strategy guides, an artbook detailing character and setting designs, as well a fan book called \"Persona Club P4\" which included official artwork, fan art, as well as interviews with the design staff. Most items were only released in Japan, while other Japanese third-party manufacturers also produced figurines and toys. The action figures include a 1/8 scale PVC figurine of Yukiko Amagi as well as Teddie and Rise Kujikawa, produced by Alter. Licensed Atlus merchandise sold by Cospa includes \"Persona 4\" t-shirts, tote bags, and the jacket and other accessories worn by the character Chie.\n\nUdon recently announced that they will release an English edition of Enterbrain's \"Persona 4: Official Design Works\" artbook to be released May 8, 2012.\n\n\"Persona 4\" was also given a manga adaptation. It is written by Shūji Sogabe, the artist for \"Persona 3\"s manga, and started serialization in ASCII Media Works \"Dengeki Black Maoh\" Volume 5 in September 2008. The first \"tankōbon\" volume was released on September 26, 2009, and six volumes have been released as of February 27, 2012.\n\nShiichi Kukura also authored , a manga that focuses on Yosuke Hanamura's life in Inaba before the game's start. Its only volume was released on August 27, 2012. A manga adaptation of the light novel \"Persona × Detective Naoto\", illustrated by Satoshi Shiki, began serialization in \"Dengeki Maoh\" magazine from November 27, 2012.\n\nMamiya Natsuki wrote a light novel titled that focuses on the character of Naoto Shirogane a year after the events of \"Persona 4\". She is hired to investigate the disappearance of a childhood friend in Yagakoro City where she is partnered with Sousei Kurogami, a mechanized detective. With illustrations by Shigenori Soejima and Shuji Sogabe, the light novel was released by Dengeki Bunko on June 8, 2012 in Japan.\n\nA 25-episode anime television adaptation of the game, produced by AIC A.S.T.A. and directed by Seiji Kishi, aired on MBS between October 6, 2011 and March 29, 2012. An additional 26th episode, featuring the story's true ending, was released in the 10th volume of Persona 4 on August 22, 2013. The series features most of the returning cast from the video game, whilst voice recordings for Igor were taken from the game as his actor, Isamu Tanonaka, died in January 2010. Aniplex released the series on DVD and Blu-ray Disc between November 23, 2011 and August 22, 2012, with the first volume containing a director's cut of the first episode and a bonus CD single. Sentai Filmworks licensed the series in North America, simulcasting it on Anime Network as it aired and releasing the series on DVD and Blu-ray in two collective volumes on September 18, 2012 and January 15, 2013 respectively. Like the Japanese version, the English dub retains many of the original voice actors from the English version of the game, although the Blu-ray Disc release omits the Japanese audio option. Kazé and Manga Entertainment released the series in the United Kingdom in three BD/DVD combi boxsets released between December 24, 2012 and July 22, 2013. A film recap of the series, titled \"Persona 4 The Animation -The Factor of Hope-\", was released in Japanese theaters on June 9, 2012, featuring a condensed version of the story and new scenes of animation. A second anime adaptation based on \"Persona 4 Golden\", titled \"Persona 4: The Golden Animation\", is being produced by A-1 Pictures and began airing on MBS' Animeism block in July 2014.\n\nA live stage production titled took place from March 15–20, 2012. Actors starring in the stage production include Toru Baba as the audience-named protagonist, Takahisa Maeyama as Yosuke Hanamura, Minami Tsukui as Chie Satonaka, Risa Yoshiki as Yukiko Amagi, Jyōji Saotome as Daisuke Nagase, Motohiro Ota as Kou Ichijo, and Masashi Taniguchi as Ryotaro Dojima, and Masami Ito as Tohru Adachi. Kappei Yamaguchi and Rie Kugimiya reprised their roles as Teddie and Rise in voice. Following the announcement, Youichiro Omi was cast as Kanji Tatsumi on December 1, 2011. \"VisuaLive: Persona 4\" chronicled the events of the game up until Kanji's inclusion into the party. A second stage production, titled , chronicled the second half of the events of the story and took place from October 3–9, 2012. Additions to the cast include Yuriya Suzuki as Rise Kujikawa, Juria Kawakami as Naoto Shirogane, Yasuhiro Roppongi as Tarou Namatame, Shotaro Mamiya as Izanami and Arisa Nakajima as Margaret. Yumi Sugimoto replaced Yoshiki as Yukiko Amagi.\n\n\"Persona 4\" was highly acclaimed by critics within and outside Japan, and remained on top of sales charts on its initial release. In Japan, the game sold 193,000 copies within a week of its release, while in North America, \"Persona 4\" was the highest-selling PlayStation 2 game on Amazon.com for two consecutive weeks. A soundtrack disc was included in the North American and European releases of \"Persona 4\", containing a selection of tracks from the full soundtrack released in Japan. Amazon.com exclusively sold the \"Persona 4\" \"Social Link Expansion Pack\", which included an additional soundtrack disc, a t-shirt, a 2009 calendar, and a plush doll of the character Teddie.\n\n\"Persona 4\" received critical acclaim from game critics upon release. Jeff Gerstmann of Giant Bomb described it as \"one of the best times I've had with video games, whether I was playing by myself or watching someone else play it.\" \"Famitsu\" pointed out that while \"there isn't much new from the last game\", it favored the changes over the battle system, where the pacing \"is quick so it doesn't get to be a pain\", and the ability to control party members \"makes play that much easier\". IGN on the other hand noted that \"the pacing can be somewhat off\", and \"some things feel repurposed or unaffected from previous games\", while praising the game as an \"evolution of the RPG series, and an instant classic\". It also noted that the soundtrack can be \"a bit repetitive\". RPGFan's Ryan Mattich recommended \"Persona 4\" as \"one of the best RPG experiences of the year\", noting that \"among the cookie-cutter sequels and half-hearted remakes\", the game is \"a near flawless example of the perfect balance between 'falling back on what works' and 'pushing the genre forward'.\" 1UP.com's Andrew Fitch summarized \"Persona 4\" as \"some of this decade's finest RPG epics\", although the reviewer criticized its \"slight loading issues\" and the time spent \"waiting for the plot to advance\". GameTrailers gave the game a score of 9.3, stating it's an exception to the rule of the Japanese role-playing genre, and that it stands out of any other JRPG, including its predecessor, \"Persona 3\". \"Wired\" pointed out that while the graphics are not up to par with those of the Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3, \"the clever art style makes up for that\". It also praised the game's soundtrack as \"excellent, especially the battle music\".\n\nThe game's setting garnered mixed reactions. IGN labeled \"Persona 4\" as \"a murder mystery set against the backdrop of familiar \"Persona 3\" elements\", and while this element adds \"an interesting twist\" to the dungeon crawl and social simulation gameplay, it also causes the plot to \"slow down or suffer\". \"Hyper\"'s Tim Henderson commended the game for \"willfully embellish[ing] absurd urban legends and other ideas with such assured consistency that the resulting whole is unshakabl[y] coherent\". However, he criticized it for the narrative's sluggish pace and for how he felt the game is \"lacking in elaborate set-pieces\". 1UP.com called \"Persona 4\" a \"stylish murder mystery\", the comparison given being a \"small-town Scooby-Doo\" adventure.\n\nThe game is also noted for its \"significant portion of the story revolving around sexual themes\", as quoted from RPGFan's Ryan Mattich. One of the playable characters given attention by reviewers is Kanji, who is considered to be one of the first characters in a mainstream video game to struggle with their sexual orientation, and Atlus has been commended for the inclusion of that character. Atlus USA has stated that they left Kanji's sexual preferences ambiguous and up to the player; however, there has been no word from developer Atlus Japan concerning the matter. According to Dr. Antonia Levi, author of \"\", the questioning of Kanji's sexuality in the script is a \"comment on homosexuality in a greater Japanese social context\", in which \"the notion of 'coming out' is seen as undesirable ... as it necessarily involves adopting a confrontational stance against mainstream lifestyles and values\". Brenda Brathwaite, author of \"Sex in Video Games\", thought it \"would have been amazing if they would have made a concrete statement that [Kanji] is gay\", but was otherwise \"thrilled\" with the treatment of the character and the game's representation of his \"inner struggles and interactions with friends\".\n\n\"Persona 4\" was awarded the \"PlayStation 2 Game Prize\" in the \"Famitsu\" Awards 2008, voted by readers of \"Famitsu\". It was also recognized by the Computer Entertainment Supplier's Association as one of the recipients for the \"Games of the Year Award of Excellence\" in the Japan Game Awards 2009. The game was given the award for its \"high quality of work\", \"excellent story, automatically generated dungeons and impressive background music\". In 2013, GamesRadar ranked it fifth \"best videogame stories ever\", saying its \"greatest strength comes from pacing\". In 2015, GamesRadar named \"Persona 4 Golden\" the 53rd best game ever on its \"The 100 best games ever\" list. In that same year, USgamer placed the game fifth on its \"The 15 Best Games Since 2000\" list. \n\n"}
{"id": "465882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465882", "title": "Peter Burke (historian)", "text": "Peter Burke (historian)\n\nUlick Peter Burke (born 1937 in Stanmore, England) is a British historian and professor. He was born to a Roman Catholic father and Jewish mother (who later converted to Roman Catholicism). He was educated by the Jesuits and at St John's College, Oxford and was a doctoral candidate at St Antony's College, Oxford. \n\nFrom 1962 to 1979, he was a member of the School of European Studies at University of Sussex, before moving to the University of Cambridge, where he holds the title of Professor Emeritus of Cultural History and Fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge. Burke is celebrated as a historian not only of the early modern era, but one who emphasizes the relevance of social and cultural history to modern issues. He is married to Brazilian historian Maria Lúcia Garcia Pallares-Burke.\n\nAmong his most important works are:\n\n"}
{"id": "807905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=807905", "title": "Primus (Transformers)", "text": "Primus (Transformers)\n\nPrimus is a living planet and deity-entity in the fictional Transformers universe who fought against the Chaos-Bringer Unicron. The Lord of the Light, Primus is the being who created the Primes to help it defeat Unicron, and the Transformers homeworld Cybertron.\n\nPrimus was voted as one of the \"coolest toys around\" by \"Boys' Life\" magazine in November 2006.\n\nAccording to transformers lore, before the dawn of time, Order and Chaos existed within an extra-dimensional entity known as The One. To explore the fledgling universe, he created the astral being known as Unicron, and then subdivided him, creating his twin, Primus. Both brothers were multiversal singularities, unique in all realities, but where as Unicron could only exist in one universe at a time, moving between them at will, Primus existed simultaneously in all realities at once. It is suggested, in fact, that the two brothers embody the basic concepts of reality—good and evil, order and chaos—and that their continued existence is necessary for the stability of the multiverse.\n\nAs Unicron and Primus ventured through the cosmos, it became apparent to Primus that Unicron was a corrupt being, and then confronted the threat his sibling posed. In combat, Primus was no match for Unicron. In cunning, however, he proved himself to be his brother's superior when he shifted their battle to the astral plane, and then back to the physical world once more, sacrificing most of his strength to manifest their essences within metallic planetoids, leaving them both trapped. It was with this act of sacrifice that Primus hoped to contain the evil force forever. Unfortunately, over time, Unicron learned to physically shape his prison into a giant metallic planet, and Primus followed suit, becoming the mechanical world of Cybertron. When Unicron then learned to transform his planetary form even further, into a gigantic robot form, Primus could also, but adapted the idea, and created The Thirteen, a group of robotic beings that possessed the ability to change shape, like Unicron.\n\nThe war between Unicron and Primus came to its seeming end during a climactic battle in which one of the Thirteen, Megatronus Prime, who would forever afterwards be known as The Fallen, betrayed Primus and became an acolyte of Unicron. The battle ended when the Fallen and Unicron were sucked into a black hole and disappeared from reality. With Unicron gone for now, Primus entered an eons-long slumber, preventing Unicron from detecting him through the mental link the brothers shared.\n\nThe Primus/Unicron backstory has evolved and been rewritten a number of times since it originated in the Marvel Comics series. The version recounted above is the current iteration, which has slowly solidified across a wide swath of media (beginning around the time of \"\"). Before the Primus/Unicron mythos reached its present form it went through several distinct versions in the Marvel Generation 1 comics and elsewhere.\n\nThe first time the Primus/Unicron backstory appeared was in the UK comic continuity, from Unicron himself, in the story \"The Legacy of Unicron!\", when he recounted it to Death's Head. Per Unicron's telling of events, he was a primal force of evil at the dawn of the universe, who led a legion of Dark Gods against his mortal foe, Primus, Lord of the Light Gods. Events proceeded to play out basically as described above, though the role of the Light and Dark Gods would diminish with each subsequent retelling of the story, until the current version, in which Primus and Unicron are alone, and have a unique origin.\n\nThe second time the story was told was in the United States book by the Keeper, an ancient mechanoid who guarded Primus's head at the center of Cybertron. This telling is effectively the same as the previous UK story, but mentions that their battle was towards the end of the era of gods, that Primus and Unicron were the last of their respective pantheons, and Primus had to defeat Unicron before he could take his place with the other gods in the \"Omniversal Matrix\".\n\nThe third time the story was told was also in the United States Marvel series, this time by Primus, when he gathered all his children together to prepare for Unicron's coming. It was with this telling that we learned that Unicron predated the current universe, and had destroyed the previous universe which existed before the current one. He had slept peacefully, alone in the void of un-creation that remained, until fragments of the old universe that he had overlooked reacted, causing the Big Bang and birthing the current universe. The \"sentient core\" of this new universe recognized the threat that Unicron posed, and so created Primus to counter his evil and be guardian of the new creation.\n\nThe first modern retelling of the origins of Primus and Unicron did not come from Generation 1-oriented media, but from a set of \"\" trading cards released by Fleer. It was the backstory printed on Unicron's card which introduced the concept of the two being brothers created to explore the new universe by an extra-dimensional entity, here named the \"Allspark\".\"\n\nThis was subsequently expanded on and combined with aspects of the various Marvel Comics stories in \"\", published by Dorling Kindersley and written by Simon Furman, who had written all three prior tellings in the first place. Here, the entity Fleer had called the \"Allspark\" was redubbed \"The One\", and the modern iteration of the myth detailed above was firmly established, and went on to form the backbone of subsequent fiction such as \"\" and Fun Publications' \"\" comics.\n\nAlthough many of the official television and comics appearance of Unicron appear to present separate and distinct incarnations of the character, some writers have presented an interpretation of the sources that ties all the versions of Unicron together into a single continuity. Likewise, Primus is also a \"multiversal singularity\", but while Unicron is limited in this ability, and can only exist in one reality at a time, travelling between them, Primus co-exists in all realities simultaneously.\n\nThis concept began with the release of a series of \"Transformers: Armada\" trading cards by Fleer. The biography printed on Unicron's card presented him to be one of two heralds created by the Allspark to explore the newly birthed universe. Inspired by his Marvel Comics origin, the other herald was Primus, and the brothers set about this task, until they came upon a region of space teeming with pure Energon. Unicron wanted this power for himself, and cut Primus down before he could report it to the Allspark, casting his brother's body into the orbit of a nearby star. And so Unicron went on to become the engine of destruction that menaced the universe in recent years.\n\nNot long after this, the publication of \"Transformers: The Ultimate Guide\" by Dorling Kindersley cemented this notion. Writer Simon Furman incorporated the various aspects of the Dreamwave comics story, some elements of the Fleer storyline and his original Marvel Comics origin to create what is now essentially the \"definitive\" origin for Unicron. In this version of events, Unicron and Primus were again twin heralds, giant metal planetoids created by the \"One\", who were sent to explore the universe. But Unicron was an imperfect being and turned to evil, adapting his form to transform into a giant robot. To battle him, The One gave Primus this power also, but Primus opted to remain in planet mode, and passed the transforming abilities on to thirteen robots that he created from himself; the first Transformers. One of the thirteen turned on Primus and sided with Unicron, however, and the war culminated in a battle that saw Unicron and this traitor, the \"Fallen\", sucked through a black hole into another universe.\n\nThis new origin is part of the G1 timeline laid down by the Ultimate Guide, which is apparently being taken as the \"official\" G1 timeline for future projects that require it. This means that there is only one Unicron who has travelled from universe to universe across all the assorted \"Transformers\" continuities. This interpretation of the character is evidenced by the parallel universe spanning \"\" toyline and convention-exclusive comic books — in which the singular Unicron captured Transformers from various alternate realities and pitted them against each other, feeding off the energies released — and the \"Transformers: Cybertron\" comic strip in the Transformers Collectors' Club fan magazine, which depicts Unicron's actions in the various realities in a chronological order and claims that Cybertron is the stable heart of the Multiverse.\n\nUnicron's size is never specified in any canon materials, aside from the vague term \"planet size\". In \"Transformers: The Movie\", Unicron's height appears to be anywhere from several kilometers (as when handling Galvatron) to several hundred kilometers (as when attacking and destroying Lithone and Cybertron's moons, and attacking Cybertron). A planet-mode diameter of 1000 km has been suggested and robot-mode dimensions would follow from that estimate, provided that there is no change in size (compression or expansion) common among so many Transformers. In fact, one scene in the movie shows Jazz driving out of one of Unicron's eyes, just small enough to fit through them, though in another scene the Quintesson ship Hot Rod arrived is tiny compared with the eye. Unicron is also small enough to stand on Cybertron's surface. In season 3, it is shown that the eyes from Metroplex and Trypticon (both city-sized Transformers) are the perfect size to use as replacement parts when Unicron orders the ghost of Starscream to steal them. However later in the episode when Trypticon moves Unicron's head, the head is larger than Trypticon's entire body. (Note: However, the eyes could be only small components for his Optic Sensors to be reformed and/ or completed.) In the storyline \"The Ultimate Doom\", Cybertron appeared to be smaller than Earth's own moon (and by extension, this would indicate Lithone would be too small to be a planet), making Unicron's dimensions in the cartoon harder to define.\n\nThe comic version of Unicron may be far larger. In the first issue of Marvel Comics Generation One \"Transformers\" comic, Cybertron is said to be around the size of Saturn (which has a diameter of roughly 120,000 km at the equator). As Unicron's planet mode is seen to be as large as Cybertron (if not larger) in the comics, this would suggest a diameter of 120,000+ km. The Dreamwave equivalent of Unicron may be the same size, as the Cybertron of the Dreamwave universe was also said to be the size of Saturn.\n\nIn the \"Transformers: Cybertron\" comics, the tank version of Unicron is only the same size as an average Transformer, and is shorter than the Autobots Sentinel Maximus and Omega Prime, whom he fought.\n\nThe \"Transformers Prime\" iteration of Unicron depicts him as the center of Earth, making him a planet with sustainable life, though it has not been seen if Unicron wishes to consume other planets like his other incarnations.\n\nAlthough Primus was never mentioned in the original U.S. Transformers television series, the writers of \"Beast Wars\" included Primus to the television mythos with mention of Primus by the Transformers in that series, and the creation of the Covenant of Primus in the series finale. The character itself never appeared in those two series.\n\nWhen the \"\" series came to feature a new incarnation of Unicron, the Fleer series of trading cards included on this Unicron's card a biography that mentioned Primus and told an entirely new story for this universe. Here, Primus and Unicron were brothers, twin heralds created by the Allspark to explore the universe. Unicron was a flawed being, and he eventually turned on his brother when they discovered a region of space rich in Energon. Unicron sought to use it for his own power, and to stop Primus telling the Allspark of this, he apparently slew him, and cast his body into the orbit of a nearby star. \"Armada\"'s sequel series, \"\", went on to feature a character named Primus, who dwelled at the core of Cybertron. Portrayed as an incandescent sphere of light, Primus is given no origin or explanation in the series, beyond apparently being the sentient energy core of Cybertron. Historical precedent would suggest a similar origin to the Marvel Comics, with the abandoned Primus somehow becoming Cybertron.\n\nPrimus' first noted act in \"Energon\" was to imbue the young Chad \"Kicker\" Jones with the ability to sense Energon (presumably, this was to enable the Autobots to find the mineral, but seems like a very callous and self-serving act, which is in-line with the Marvel incarnation of Primus, but not how the Energon version of the character would go on to act). Subsequently, he bestowed upon the Autobots of this universe the \"Spark of Combination\", giving them the ability to Powerlink their bodies together for enhanced strength in the face of the attacks by Alpha Q and his Terrorcons. When these battles eventually led to full-scale Decepticon attack upon Cybertron, Primus's chamber was infiltrated by Terrorcons who began to drain his energy. When the Autobots successfully repelled them, Primus reconstructed the injured guard, Wing Dagger, as Wing Saber, who joined the battle, which resulted in a fissure being torn in space, hurling the Autobots far from Cybertron.\n\nIn this new region of space, the Decepticons succeeded in restoring and reanimating Unicron. Primus guided Kicker's father, Doctor Brian Jones, to a subterranean temple on Cybertron, where they awoke the legendary Omega Supreme, who Powerlinked with Optimus Prime into \"Optimus Supreme\" to aid in fighting Unicron. Primus then transmitted the entirety of his energy across the gulf of space, enhancing the armor and power of Hot Shot, Jetfire, Ironhide, Cliffjumper and Landmine, and allowing Optimus Supreme to grow to a colossal height, to battle and best Unicron one-on-one.\n\nWith Unicron defeated, the Autobots were afforded a brief moment of relaxation, but another Decepticon attack launched upon Cybertron soon shattered that. Having expended his energy, Primus was in \"sleep mode\", and had to be forcibly awakened by an infusion of Energon from the Omnicons, only to find himself forced to use all his power to once again enhance Optimus Supreme so that he could stop the Decepticon-induced movement of Cybertron. The Omnicons quickly re-energized him with Super Energon from the reservoir beneath the planet's surface, while Optimus Prime struggled with a Unicron-possessed Galvatron. Primus merged himself with the reservoir of Super Energon, creating a foundling sun, into which Galvatron plunged himself, preferring to be destroyed, rather than manipulated by Unicron any further. With this act, the sun ignited, as Primus and Unicron together breathed new life into the stars.\n\nFor an unexplained reason, at the mid-point of the English-language version of the \"Energon\" series, much of Primus's presence and influence is written out. His lines are given to other characters, usually Rad or Dr. Jones, and he is often referred to as \"the core\", rather than by name. However, this is never consistent, as he would again eventually speak a line or perform an action, and by the show's final story arc, this strange trait had disappeared.\n\nIn \"\", it is learned that Primus returned to Cybertron after the Energon sun collapsed into a black hole due to Megatron's interference. He was the one who created the Cyber Planet Keys, which awakened him after Optimus Prime absorbed their power to stop Megatron. Using the Mini-Con Jolt as a medium, he revealed the true nature of the black hole that threatens Cybertron and eventually the universe itself as a disruption of the natural order & balance of the universe caused by the collapse of the Energon sun. Unfortunately, Primus grew weak since Starscream stole most of his spark power. He needed all the Cyber Planet Keys in order to return to true consciousness. Even with three Keys, Primus astonished everyone when he suddenly moved his hand and used his weapons. When the Autobots traveled to Gigantion, the Giant Planet, Primus tried to slow down the black hole until they could find the last key. Yet Primus fought against an even larger Starscream. Primus kept the black hole from expanding while the Autobots went looking for Gigantion. When the Omega Lock and Planet Keys reunited with him, all of his Spark becomes restored to him, making him strong again, and used the Ark's (called \"Noah\" in Galaxy Force) main cannon to destroy the black hole. Considering this as a final victory for him and the Autobots, Primus then happily turns back into Cybertron, reforming himself into a much more healthier place to live by both Transformers and humans.\n\nPrimus has been made into a toy for the Cybertron toyline, with pictures of his initial look in both planet and robot mode having shown on various websites and an initial release date of 2006 for the toy itself. Since the toy's announcement, it was strongly hinted that there would be a change made between the American and Japanese figures that \"would make fans want to buy both versions\". Recently, that change has been made public; in its initial release, the American version of Primus will have a sculpt of a battle-damaged Unicron head. However, despite the inclusion of the Unicron head accessory, the toy had no differences otherwise from the Japanese release. The only part exclusive to the Japanese release was the packaging itself, which was designed to mimic the look and layout of a G1 toy box. When the toy was released, many fans found that their local shipments of Primus did not include the Unicron head, despite being the first received in their area. This led to many fans ordering Primus with Unicron head from Hasbro Toy Shop.\n\nIn the \"Robots Heroes\" animated short, Primus, considered to be the very first Transformer, created the Matrix of Leadership and personally gave it to Optimus Prime.\n\nIn the \"\" universe, Primus does not appear physically (though one could argue that the planet Cybertron and Primus are one and the same), though the \"Core of Cybertron\" which appears in \"\" may actually be Primus (if true then Primus would be the one who gave Optimus Prime the Matrix of Leadership). Like other incarnations, Primus is a mythical god-like figure and is likely believed to represent the Allspark (as his counterpart Unicron is believed to represent the Anti-spark). The Transformers' holy-text the Covenant of Primus also exists in this universe as well (and foretells of the rising threat of Unicron).\n\nThe first clash between brothers Unicron and Primus came when Unicron succeeded in his goal of consuming the universe. As he slumbered in the void it was revealed that he hadn't been thorough enough — tiny fragments of the universe remained and reacted with each other, leading to the creation of the current universe. The universe grew around Unicron and when he awoke he did not question it, he merely began to consume it again. The sentient core of the universe responded by creating Primus, a guardian to battle Unicron. The infant universe shook and quaked from the ferocity of their battles and Primus was eventually forced into a desperate gamble.\n\nHe shifted the battle to the astral plane where he fared no better and then returned them to the physical universe, but instead of allowing them to materialize in their energy forms he entrapped both Unicron and himself in two metallic asteroids. Unicron would not be stopped, psionically shaping his asteroid into a massive metal world and then into a gargantuan robot. Primus, however, elected to create a race of guardians to defend the universe against Unicron, transforming his own asteroid into a metal world which would later be known as Cybertron. On that world he gave birth to the Transformers, bestowing the race with his distilled genetic Matrix. So Primus slumbered, shutting himself down to hide the world from Unicron.\n\nIn 1991, Primus was briefly awakened by a stray laser blast in the middle of a battle at the planet's core. He screamed once before falling back to sleep, but the scream echoed across existence reaching Unicron's ears. Unicron headed for Cybertron sending his herald, Galvatron, ahead of him. Galvatron proved treacherous and awakened Primus who possessed the body of Emirate Xaaron and brought all the Transformers to Cybertron before Unicron destroyed him. Subsequently, Unicron was destroyed by Optimus Prime with the help of the Matrix, which contained the full measure of Primus' power. In the animated series, however, it is Rodimus Prime who destroys Unicron.\n\nThe above is the story of Primus as related in the United States in Marvel Comics but the story was originally told in British comics. The Primus story is recounted three times under Simon Furman - in order: Transformers UK #150, Transformers US #61, and US #74, and while the Primus/Unicron battle and ultimate solution are always the same, the background to their fight differs in each telling.\n\nThe first (told by Unicron) has Primus and Unicron leading armies of similar beings at the dawn of the universe. The second (told by the Primus Chamber's Keeper) had the two as the last of their respective pantheons and Primus needing to stop Unicron before he could pass on from this realm. The third, told by Primus, has Unicron destroying the previous universe and trying to end the current one, with Primus being formed by the \"sentient core\" of this universe to stop him.\n\nBy the third re-telling, the idea that Unicron and Primus were related to similar entities had been dropped and was not picked up again.\n\nThe expanded fiction of the Botcon and OTFCC comic books suggest that Primus experimented with a small planet before actually transforming himself into Cybertron. This world, named Protos, was where he created the first 12 Transformers, each of them themed after an animal of the zodiac. Later, Primus created the Original Thirteen Transformers.\n\nPrimus appeared with Alpha Trion in the \"Transformers: Universe\" comic, bringing back Optimus Primal and guiding him in his battles against Unicron allied Decepticons.\n\nWhen Dorling Kindersley published \"Transformers: The Ultimate Guide\", the concept of Primus and Unicron as brother heralds created by an extra-dimensional entity, called the \"AllSpark\", as per the \"Armada\" trading card, was again referenced. Additionally, however, the book claimed that there was one, singular Unicron and Primus across all dimensions, retroactively adding these elements to the original Marvel Comic origin. This revised origin concept is now treated as the official take on the character by Hasbro, and has formed the core of the story in the \"\" comic book exclusive to the Transformers Collectors Club.\n\nThe popularity of the idea is not universal within the Transformers fandom, and it notably flies in the face of the original animated show's version of events, where there was no Primus, and the Transformers were created by the Quintessons. An earlier convention-exclusive comic merged the two storylines in explanation; Primus created the transformers but then went to sleep; later the Quintessons invaded and conquered the planet and split the Cybertrons into two races. Worker/Builders (Autobots) Warrior/Soldier (Decepticon). This concept has been adopted by the majority of fans but is still met with mixed opinions by some.\n\nThe book also features an image of Primus as a transformed, robot-mode Cybertron (originally drawn by Don Figueroa for Dreamwave Productions' \"War Within\" comic book series), which received such positive reaction that the idea of a transforming Primus/Cybertron eventually made it into toy form for the \"\" toyline.\n\nSimon Furman, creator of the Primus backstory for Transformers, has stated there will be \"no Primus. No Unicron\" in the IDW Generation 1 comics, and that if Cybertronian prehistory is featured it will be different from previous takes; IDW's publisher confirmed there will be a story featuring Transformer prehistory. While a character exclaims \"Primus!\" in \"Megatron Origin\" #4 (by a different writer), Furman stated in his blog comments \"doesn't necessarily mean it's G1 Primus. There are still no plans to do feature [sic] Primus (as was)\". He does say it is possible a different being called Primus could have existed. This was later confirmed, as a version of Primus appeared as a member of the Guiding Hand, a group of five deities who were the first life on Cybertron. But, Primus and his noble fellows Adaptus, Epistemus, and Solomus were betrayed by their brother Mortilus, and the conflict left all five mortally wounded. They would give way to their descendants, the Knights of Cybertron, who would in turn be followed by IDW-G1 incarnation of the Thirteen.\n\nIn the \"live-action film series\" comics, the Allspark gave life to Cybertron and Primus, who then created the Dynasty of Primes and the rest of the Transformers race.\n\nIn the \"Shattered Glass\" universe, the idea of Primus, the benevolent Creator, was unknown to the heroic Decepticons until Cliffjumper, a visitor from the Positive Polarity universes, told them about him. Before long, Cliffjumper's \"beliefs\" were a subject of derision, especially among the evil Autobots. When Ultra Mammoth-the Ultra Magnus of Cliffjumper's reality-encountered the Vok on \"Shattered Glass\" prehistoric Earth, they took the form of Primus (mirroring the action of their counterparts in the \"Beast Wars\" cartoon) to mock Ultra Mammoth's attempts to bring order to a universe \"founded on chaos.\"\n\nCliffjumper was eventually vindicated, however, when the Nexus Prime gestalt members attempted to resurrect a recently assassinated Megatron. As they applied their powers to the body, they were transported to Primus' presence. There they chose for Primus to rebirth them as their original self, with Nexus returning to the battlefield and declaring himself to his enemies as being the \"mighty fist of the lord of light\". Megatron, meanwhile, received a vision from the other side of the Allspark of a healed Cybertron, before being reborn himself as Galvatron, with Nexus investing him with some of Primus' power by proxy.\n\nHowever, the events of \"Another Light\" resulted in the Primus of this universe being separated from his manifestations in other realities and developing an evil persona. Regarding his inhabitants as an infestation (not unlike the Aligned continuity version of Unicron regarded humanity) he approached the villainous about helping him eliminate them after Rodimus was defeated by Nova Prime, the formerly evil Optimus Prime who had been reborn through the power of the now noble Unicron.\n\nFormerly the assistant to the Primacron, the ancient genius who created the giant mechanoid Unicron, the robotic being known as the Oracle was badly damaged when Unicron rebelled against his creator. His essence fled to a dead world at the centre of the galaxy, which he used his powers to transform into a verdant, green planet. However, the Oracle could sense that in the future, Primacron would go on to create another universal danger in the form of Tornedron, and so summoned a group of Primitive Transformers back through time from the year 2010 to his planet, where he instructed them in how to destroy the threat.\n\nLater in his life, the Oracle also reached through time when he discovered that the evil Sparkbots were attempted to recreate Unicron following the planet-eater's destruction in the year 2005. By this stage calling himself \"Primus\", the Oracle attempted to stop the villains and their unwitting pawns, the human Kiss Players, appearing as a giant golden hand to snatch away the fragments of Unicron's lifeforce each time the Kiss Players recovered them. Unfortunately, this merely led the Kiss Players to pursue him through the timestream and resulted in them crashing into the \"Wall of Time\" and becoming scattered throughout the multiverse. Knowing that the Kiss Players were innocent in this whole affair, having been duped by the Sparkbots, the benevolent Primus rescued them from the different regions of time and space they had wound up in, and properly introduced himself, explaining the Sparkbots' treachery. He then took them back in time to prehistoric Earth, arriving just in time to witness the Sparkbots' successful restoration of Unicron to life. Primus transformed once more and unleashed the power of his mobile cannon platform, destroying Unicron's energy and sealing it and the Sparkbots deep within the planet. To ensure that Unicron would never be freed again, he created a mighty guardian, Brave Maximus, who would watch over it and the Earth. With the battle over, Shaoshao asked about the Kiss Players' future, but Primus did not reply. After sending the Kiss Players back to their home time, Primus transformed into the golden sphere of Vector Sigma and returned to his world to sleep.\n\nUnfortunately for Primus, as he slumbered, his world was eventually discovered by the alien Quintessons, who shackled his powers and used them to both transform the planet into the metallic Cybertron, and to create the races of robots that would eventually become the Transformers. Additionally, the aliens acquired the shell that had held his essence, which became, through unknown means, the talisman that would be known to the Transformers as the Matrix of Leadership.\n\nThe Core of Cybertron that appears in \"\" may actually be Primus and if this is true, then Primus would be the one who gave Optimus Prime the Matrix of Leadership.\n\n"}
{"id": "32366986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32366986", "title": "Proto-Iroquoian language", "text": "Proto-Iroquoian language\n\nProto-Iroquoian is the name given to the hypothetical proto-language of the Iroquoian languages. Lounsbury (1961) estimated from glottochronology a time depth of 3,500 to 3,800 years for the split of South and North Iroquoian. At the time of first European contact, speakers of Iroquoian languages ranged from the Cherokee in the Great Smoky Mountains, to the Tuscarora and Nottoway near the modern Virginia/North Carolina border, then further north the Five Nations in Upstate New York and the Huron and Neutral in modern-day Ontario.\n\nThe Iroquoian languages are usually divided into two main groups: Southern Iroquoian (Cherokee) and Northern Iroquoian (all others) based on the great differences in vocabulary and modern phonology. Northern Iroquoian is then further divided by Lounsbury and Mithun into Proto-Tuscarora-Nottoway and Lake Iroquoian, although Julian (2010) does not believe Lake Iroquoian to be a valid subgrouping.\n\nIsolated studies were done by Chafe (1977a), Michelson (1988), and Rudes (1995). There have also been several works of internal reconstruction for daughter languages, in particular with Seneca and Mohawk. A preliminary full reconstruction of proto-Iroquoian was not provided until Charles Julian's (2010) work.\n\nProto-Iroquoian as reconstructed shares the Iroquoian languages' notable typological traits of small consonant inventories, complex consonant clusters, and a lack of labial consonants.\n\nThe reconstructed vowel inventory for Proto-Iroquoian is:\nLike later Iroquoian languages, Proto-Iroquoian is distinguished in having nasal vowels /õ/ and /ẽ/, although it has more than in its daughter languages.\n\nThe reconstructed consonant inventory for Proto-Iroquoian is given in the table below. The consonants of all Iroquoian languages pattern so that they may be grouped as (oral) obstruents, sibilants, laryngeals, and resonants (Lounsbury 1978:337).\n\n"}
{"id": "44648750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44648750", "title": "Rasa Sayang", "text": "Rasa Sayang\n\n\"Rasa Sayang\" (pronounced , literally \"loving feeling\") or \"Rasa Sayange\" (in Indonesia) is a Malay popular in Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. The basis of \"Rasa Sayang\" is similar to Dondang Sayang and other Malay folk songs, which take their form from the \"pantun\", a traditional ethnic Malay poetic form.\n\nSome people in Indonesia have claimed that the song originated in the Maluku Islands, but such claims are disputed, as the standard Malay language itself and the tradition of \"pantun\" exchange are unknown to the Maluku Islands. Some of the Indonesians and Malaysians have once fought because of this.\n\nBecause this song is in \"pantun\" form, for each quatrain, there is no relevance of the first two lines to the message conveyed by the last two except to provide the rhyming scheme.\nThere are a number of versions of the lyrics of \"Rasa Sayang\", but it usually starts with this refrain:\n\nThe refrain is then followed by a wide variety of popular Malay \"pantun\"\n\nControversy over the song's provenance came to a head in 2007 when the Malaysian Tourism Board released the Rasa Sayang Commercial, an advertisement used as part of Malaysia's \"Truly Asia\" tourism campaign. Some Indonesians have accused Malaysia of heritage theft. Malaysia in return claimed that the song belongs to people of Maritime Southeast Asia, Malaysians and Indonesians alike. Malaysian Tourism Minister Adnan Mansor stated, \"It is a folk song from the Nusantara and we are part of the Nusantara.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1261465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261465", "title": "Rocker (subculture)", "text": "Rocker (subculture)\n\nRockers, leather boys, Ton-up boys, and possibly café racers are members of a biker subculture that originated in the United Kingdom during the 1950s. It was mainly centred on British café racer motorcycles and rock 'n' roll music. By 1965, the term \"greaser\" had also been introduced to Great Britain and, since then, the terms \"greaser\" and \"rocker\" have become synonymous within the British Isles although used differently in North America and elsewhere. Rockers were also derisively known as \"Coffee Bar Cowboys\". Their Japanese counterpart was called the \"Kaminari-Zoku\" (\"Thunder Tribe/Clan/Group\", or \"Thunderers\").\n\nUntil the post-war period motorcycling held a prestigious position and enjoyed a positive image in British society, being associated with wealth and glamour. Starting in the 1950s, the middle classes were able to buy inexpensive motorcars so that motorcycles became transport for the poor.\n\nThe rocker subculture came about due to factors such as: the end of post-war rationing in the UK, a general rise in prosperity for working class youths, the recent availability of credit and financing for young people, the influence of American popular music and films, the construction of race track-like arterial roads around British cities, the development of transport cafes and a peak in British motorcycle engineering. The name “rocker” came not from music, but from the rockers found in 4-stroke engines, as opposed to the two stroke engines used by scooters and ridden by mods.\n\nDuring the 1950s, they were known as \"Ton-Up boys\" because \"doing a ton\" is English slang for driving at a speed of or over. The Teddy boys were considered their \"spiritual ancestors\". The rockers or ton-up boys took what was essentially a sport and turned it into a lifestyle, dropping out of mainstream society and \"rebelling at the points where their will crossed society's\". This damaged the public image of motorcycling in the UK and led to the politicisation of the motorcycling community.\n\nThe mass media started targeting these socially powerless youths and cast them as \"folk devils\", creating a moral panic through highly exaggerated and ill-founded portrayals. From the 1960s on, due to the media fury surrounding the mods and rockers, motorcycling youths became more commonly known as \"rockers\", a term previously little known outside small groups. The public came to consider rockers as hopelessly naive, loutish, scruffy, motorized cowboys, loners or outsiders.\n\nThe Rocker subculture was associated with 1950s and early-1960s rock and roll music by artists such as Gene Vincent, Eddie Cochran and Chuck Berry, music that George Melly called \"screw and smash\" music.\n\nThe term \"café racer\" originated in the 1950s, when bikers often frequented transport cafés, using them as starting and finishing points for road races. A café racer is a motorcycle that has been modified for speed and good handling rather than for comfort. Features include: a single racing seat, low handlebars (such as ace bars or one-sided clip-ons mounted directly onto the front forks for control and aerodynamics), large racing petrol tanks (aluminium ones were often polished and left unpainted), swept-back exhaust pipes, rear-set footpegs (to give better clearance while cornering at high speeds) with or without half or full race fairings.\n\nThese motorcycles were lean, light and handled various road surfaces well. The most defining machine of the rocker heyday was the Triton, which was a custom motorcycle made of a Norton Featherbed frame and a Triumph Bonneville engine. It used the most common and fastest racing engine combined with the best handling frame of its day. Other popular motorcycle brands included BSA, Royal Enfield and Matchless.\n\nThe term \"café racers\" is now also used to describe motorcycle riders who prefer vintage British, Italian or Japanese motorbikes from the 1950s to late 1970s. These modern café racers do not resemble the rockers of earlier decades, and they dress in a more modern and comfortable style, with only a hint of likeness to the rocker style, nor do they share the passion for 50s rock'n'roll. These modern café racers have taken elements of the American greaser, British rocker, and modern motorcycle rider styles to create a look of their own. Rockers in the 2000s tend still to ride classic British motorcycles, however, classically styled European café racers are now also seen, such as Moto Guzzi or Ducati, as well as classic Japanese bikes, some with British-made frames such as those made by Rickman.\n\nRockers bought standard factory-made motorcycles and stripped them down, tuning them up and modifying them to appear like racing bikes. Their bikes were not merely transport, but were used as an object of intimidation and masculinity projecting them uneasily close to death, an element exaggerated by their use of skull and crossbone-type symbolism.\n\nFirst seen in the United States and then England, the rocker fashion style was born out of necessity and practicality. Rockers wore heavily decorated leather motorcycle jackets, often adorned with metal studs, patches, pin badges and sometimes an Esso \"gas man\" trinket. When they rode their motorcycles, they usually wore no helmet, or wore a classic open-face helmet, aviator goggles and a white silk scarf (to protect them from the elements). Other common items included: T-shirts, leather caps, Levi's or Wrangler jeans, leather trousers, tall motorcycle boots (often made by Lewis Leathers and Goldtop) or brothel creepers/beetle crushers. Also popular was a patch declaring membership of the 59 Club of England, a church-based youth organization that later formed into a motorcycle club with members all over the world. The rocker hairstyle, kept in place with Brylcreem, was usually a tame or exaggerated pompadour hairstyle, as was popular with some 1950s rock and roll musicians.\nLargely due to their clothing styles and dirtiness, the rockers were not widely welcomed by venues such as pubs and dance halls. Rockers also transformed rock and roll dancing into a more violent, individualistic form beyond the control of dance hall management. They were generally reviled by the British motorcycle industry and general enthusiasts as being as an embarrassment and bad for the industry and the sport.\n\nOriginally, many rockers opposed recreational drug use, and according to Johnny Stuart:\n\nThey had no knowledge of the different sorts of drugs. To them amphetamines, cannabis, heroin were all drugs - something to be hated. Their ritual hatred of Mods and other sub-cultures was based in part on the fact that these people were believed to take drugs and were therefore regarded as sissies. Their dislike of anyone connected with drugs was intense.\n\nThe rockers' look and attitude influenced pop groups in the 1960s, such as The Beatles, as well as hard rock and punk rock bands and fans in the late 1970s. The look of the ton-up boy and rocker was accurately portrayed in the 1964 film \"The Leather Boys\". The rocker subculture has also influenced the rockabilly revival and the psychobilly subculture.\n\nMany contemporary rockers still wear engineer boots or full-length motorcycle boots, but Winklepickers (sharp pointed shoes) are no longer common. Some wear brothel creepers (originally worn by Teddy Boys), or combat boots. Rockers have continued to wear leather motorcycle jackets, often adorned with patches, studs, spikes and painted artwork; jeans or leather trousers; and white silk scarves. Leather caps adorned with metal studs and chains, common among rockers in the 1950s and 1960s, are rarely seen any more. Instead, some contemporary rockers wear a classic woollen flat cap.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the British rocker and hardcore motorcycle scene fractured and evolved under new influences coming from California: the hippies and the Hells Angels. The remaining rockers became known as greasers, and the scene had all but died out.\n\nIn the early 1980s, a Rockers revival was started by Lennie Paterson and a handful of original rockers. Paterson organized rocker reunion dances called \"piss-ups\", which attracted individuals from as far as Europe. The first rocker reunion motorcycle run of 30 classic British motorcycles rode to Battersea Following runs went to other destinations with historic relevance to Rockers such as Brighton.\n\nIn 1994 Mark Wilsmore and others organised the first Ace Cafe Reunion to mark the 25th anniversary of the closure of the famous transport cafe before going on to re-opening and established a series of events. These events now attract up to 40,000 motorcyclists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4742155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4742155", "title": "Rongorongo (wife of Turi)", "text": "Rongorongo (wife of Turi)\n\nIn Māori tradition, Rongorongo is the wife of Turi, the chief of the Aotea canoe. She is an ancestor of the Whanganui and Ngati Ruanui iwi. The Aotea canoe was given to Rongorongo as a present by her father Toto (Tregear 1891:426).\n\n"}
{"id": "28217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28217", "title": "Serial Experiments Lain", "text": "Serial Experiments Lain\n\nThe series focuses on Lain Iwakura, an adolescent middle school girl living in suburban Japan, and her introduction to the Wired, a global communications network which is similar to the Internet. Lain lives with her middle-class family, which consists of her inexpressive older sister Mika, her emotionally distant mother, and her computer-obsessed father; while Lain herself is somewhat awkward, introverted, and socially isolated from most of her school peers. But the status-quo of her life becomes upturned by a series of bizarre incidents that start to take place after she learns that girls from her school have received an e-mail from a dead student, Chisa Yomoda, and she pulls out her old computer in order to check for the same message. Lain finds Chisa telling her that she is not dead, but has merely \"abandoned her physical body and flesh\" and is alive deep within the virtual reality-world of the Wired itself, where she has found the almighty and divine \"God\". From this point, Lain is caught up in a series of cryptic and surreal events that see her delving deeper into the mystery of the network in a narrative that explores themes of consciousness, perception, and the nature of reality.\n\nThe \"Wired\" is a virtual reality-world that contains and supports the very sum of \"all\" human communication and networks, created with the telegraph, televisions, and telephone services, and expanded with the Internet, cyberspace, and subsequent networks. The series assumes that the Wired could be linked to a system that enables unconscious communication between people and machines without physical interface. The storyline introduces such a system with the Schumann resonances, a property of the Earth's magnetic field that theoretically allows for unhindered long distance communications. If such a link were created, the network would become equivalent to Reality as the general consensus of all perceptions and knowledge. The increasingly thin invisible line between what is real and what is virtual/digital begins to slowly shatter.\n\nMasami Eiri is introduced as the project director on Protocol Seven (the next-generation Internet protocol in the series' time-frame) for major computer company Tachibana General Laboratories. He had secretly included code of his very own creation to give himself absolute control of the Wired through the wireless system described above. He then \"uploaded\" his own brain, conscience, consciousness, memory, feelings, emotions – his very self – into the Wired and \"died\" a few days after, leaving only his physical, living body behind. These details are unveiled around the middle of the series, but this is the point where the story of \"Serial Experiments Lain\" begins. Masami later explains that Lain is the artifact by which the wall between the virtual and material worlds is to fall, and that he needs her to get to the Wired and \"abandon the flesh\", as he did, to achieve his plan. The series sees him trying to convince her through interventions, using the promise of unconditional love, romantic seduction and charm, and even, when all else fails, threats and force.\n\nIn the meantime, the anime follows a complex game of hide-and-seek between the \"Knights of the Eastern Calculus\", hackers whom Masami claims are \"believers that enable him to be a God in the Wired\", and Tachibana General Laboratories, who try to regain control of Protocol Seven. In the end, the viewer sees Lain realizing, after much introspection, that she has absolute control over everyone's mind and over reality itself. Her dialogue with different versions of herself shows how she feels shunned from the material world, and how she is afraid to live in the Wired, where she has the possibilities and responsibilities of an almighty goddess. The last scenes feature her erasing everything connected to herself from everyone's memories. She is last seen, unchanged, encountering her oldest and closest friend Alice once again, who is now married. Lain promises herself that she and Alice will surely meet again anytime as Lain can literally go and be anywhere she desires between both worlds.\n\n\"Serial Experiments Lain\" was conceived, as a series, to be original to the point of it being considered \"an enormous risk\" by its producer Yasuyuki Ueda.\n\nProducer Ueda had to answer repeated queries about a statement made in an \"Animerica\" interview. The controversial statement said \"Lain\" was \"a sort of cultural war against American culture and the American sense of values we <nowiki>[Japan]</nowiki> adopted after World War II\". He later explained in numerous interviews that he created \"Lain\" with a set of values he took as distinctly Japanese; he hoped Americans would not understand the series as the Japanese would. This would lead to a \"war of ideas\" over the meaning of the anime, hopefully culminating in new communication between the two cultures. When he discovered that the American audience held the same views on the series as the Japanese, he was disappointed.\n\nThe \"Lain\" franchise was originally conceived to connect across forms of media (anime, video games, manga). Producer Yasuyuki Ueda said in an interview, \"the approach I took for this project was to communicate the essence of the work by the total sum of many media products\". The scenario for the video game was written first, and the video game was produced at the same time as the anime series, though the series was released first. A dōjinshi titled \"The Nightmare of Fabrication\" was produced by Yoshitoshi ABe and released in Japanese in the artbook \"Omnipresence in the Wired\". Ueda and Konaka declared in an interview that the idea of a multimedia project was not unusual in Japan, as opposed to the contents of \"Lain\", and the way they are exposed.\n\nThe authors were asked in interviews if they had been influenced by \"Neon Genesis Evangelion\", in the themes and graphic design. This was strictly denied by writer Chiaki J. Konaka in an interview, arguing that he had not seen \"Evangelion\" until he finished the fourth episode of \"Lain\". Being primarily a horror movies writer, his stated influences are Godard (especially for using typography on screen), \"The Exorcist\", \"Hell House\", and Dan Curtis's \"House of Dark Shadows\". Alice's name, like the names of her two friends Julie and Reika, came from a previous production from Konaka, \"Alice in Cyberland\", which in turn was largely influenced by \"Alice in Wonderland\". As the series developed, Konaka was \"surprised\" by how close Alice's character became to the original \"Wonderland\" character.\n\nVannevar Bush (and memex), John C. Lilly, Timothy Leary and his eight-circuit model of consciousness, Ted Nelson and Project Xanadu are cited as precursors to the Wired. Douglas Rushkoff and his book \"Cyberia\" were originally to be cited as such, and in \"Lain\" Cyberia became the name of a nightclub populated with hackers and techno-punk teenagers. Likewise, the series' \"deus ex machina\" lies in the conjunction of the Schumann resonances and Jung's collective unconscious (the authors chose this term over Kabbalah and Akashic Record). Majestic 12 and the Roswell UFO incident are used as examples of how a hoax might still affect history, even after having been exposed as such, by creating sub-cultures. This links again to Vannevar Bush, the alleged \"brains\" of MJ12. Two of the literary references in \"Lain\" are quoted through Lain's father: he first logs onto a website with the password \"Think Bule Count One Tow\" (\"Think Blue, Count Two\" is an Instrumentality of Man story featuring virtual persons projected as real ones in people's minds); and his saying that \"madeleines would be good with the tea\" in the last episode makes \"Lain\" \"perhaps the only cartoon to allude to Proust\".\n\nYoshitoshi ABe confesses to have never read manga as a child, as it was \"off-limits\" in his household. His major influences are \"nature and everything around him\". Specifically speaking about Lain's character, ABe was inspired by Kenji Tsuruta, Akihiro Yamada, Range Murata and Yukinobu Hoshino. In a broader view, he has been influenced in his style and technique by Japanese artists Chinai-san and Tabuchi-san.\n\nThe character design of Lain was not ABe's sole responsibility. Her distinctive left forelock for instance was a demand from Yasuyuki Ueda. The goal was to produce asymmetry to reflect Lain's unstable and disconcerting nature. It was designed as a mystical symbol, as it is supposed to prevent voices and spirits from being heard by the left ear. The bear pajamas she wears were a demand from character animation director Takahiro Kishida. Though bears are a trademark of the Konaka brothers, Chiaki Konaka first opposed the idea. Director Nakamura then explained how the bear motif could be used as a shield for confrontations with her family. It is a key element of the design of the shy \"real world\" Lain (see \"mental illness\" under Themes). When she first goes to the Cyberia nightclub, she wears a bear hat for similar reasons. The pajamas were finally considered as possible fan-service by Konaka, in the way they enhance Lain's nymph aspect.\n\nABe's original design was generally more complicated than what finally appeared on screen. As an example, the X-shaped hairclip was to be an interlocking pattern of gold links. The links would open with a snap, or rotate around an axis until the moment the \" X \" became a \" = \". This was not used as there is no scene where Lain takes her hairclip off.\n\n\"Serial Experiments Lain\" is not a conventionally linear story, but \"an alternative anime, with modern themes and realization\". Themes range from theological to psychological and are dealt with in a number of ways: from classical dialogue to image-only introspection, passing by direct interrogation of imaginary characters.\n\nCommunication, in its wider sense, is one of the main themes of the series, not only as opposed to loneliness, but also as a subject in itself. Writer Konaka said he wanted to directly \"communicate human feelings\". Director Nakamura wanted to show the audience — and particularly viewers between 14 and 15—\"the multidimensional wavelength of the existential self: the relationship between self and the world\".\n\nLoneliness, if only as representing a lack of communication, is recurrent through \"Lain\". Lain herself (according to Anime Jump) is \"almost painfully introverted with no friends to speak of at school, a snotty, condescending sister, a strangely apathetic mother, and a father who seems to want to care but is just too damn busy to give her much of his time\". Friendships turn on the first rumor; and the only insert song of the series is named \"Kodoku no shigunaru\", literally \"signal of loneliness\".\n\nMental illness, especially dissociative identity disorder, is a significant theme in \"Lain\": the main character is constantly confronted with alter-egos, to the point where writer Chiaki Konaka and Lain's voice actress Kaori Shimizu had to agree on subdividing the character's dialogues between three different orthographs. The three names designate distinct \"versions\" of Lain: the real-world, \"childish\" Lain has a shy attitude and bear pajamas. The \"advanced\" Lain, her Wired personality, is bold and questioning. Finally, the \"evil\" Lain is sly and devious, and does everything she can to harm Lain or the ones close to her. As a writing convention, the authors spelled their respective names in kanji, katakana, and roman characters (see picture).\n\nReality never has the pretense of objectivity in \"Lain\". Acceptations of the term are battling throughout the series, such as the \"natural\" reality, defined through normal dialogue between individuals; the material reality; and the tyrannic reality, enforced by one person onto the minds of others. A key debate to all interpretations of the series is to decide whether matter flows from thought, or the opposite. The production staff carefully avoided \"the so-called God's Eye Viewpoint\" to make clear the \"limited field of vision\" of the world of \"Lain\".\n\nTheology plays its part in the development of the story too. \"Lain\" has been viewed as a questioning of the possibility of an infinite spirit in a finite body. From self-realization as a goddess to deicide, religion (the title of a layer) is an inherent part of \"Lain\" background.\n\n\"Lain\" contains extensive references to Apple computers, as the brand was used at the time by most of the creative staff, such as writers, producers, and the graphical team. As an example, the title at the beginning of each episode is announced by the Apple computer speech synthesis program PlainTalk, using the voice \"Whisper\", e.g. codice_1. Tachibana Industries, the company that creates the NAVI computers, is a reference to Apple computers: \"tachibana\" means \"Mandarin orange\" in Japanese. NAVI is the abbreviation of Knowledge Navigator, and the HandiNAVI is based on the Apple Newton, one of the world's first PDAs. The NAVIs are seen to run \"Copland OS Enterprise\" (this reference to Copland was an initiative of Konaka, a declared Apple fan), and Lain's and Alice's NAVIs closely resembles the Twentieth Anniversary Macintosh and the iMac respectively. The HandiNAVI programming language, as seen on the seventh episode, is a dialect of Lisp. Notice that the Newton also used a Lisp dialect (NewtonScript). The program being typed by Lain can be found in the CMU AI repository; it is a simple implementation of Conway's Game of Life in Common Lisp.\n\nDuring a series of disconnected images, an iMac and the Think Different advertising slogan appears for a short time, while the \"Whisper\" voice says it. This was an unsolicited insertion from the graphic team, also Mac-enthusiasts. Other subtle allusions can be found: \"Close the world, Open the nExt\" is the slogan for the \"Serial Experiments Lain\" video game. NeXT was the company that produced NeXTSTEP, which later evolved into Mac OS X after Apple bought NeXT. Another example is \"To Be Continued.\" at the end of episodes 1–12, with a blue \"B\" and a red \"e\" on \"Be\": \"this\" \"Be\" is the original logo of Be Inc., a company founded by ex-Apple employees and NeXT's main competitor in its time.\n\n\"Serial Experiments Lain\" was first aired on TV Tokyo on July 6, 1998 and concluded on September 28, 1998 with the thirteenth and final episode. The series consists of 13 episodes (referred to in the series as \"Layers\") of 24 minutes each, except for the sixth episode, \"Kids\" (23 minutes 14 seconds). In Japan, the episodes were released in LD, VHS, and DVD with a total of five volumes. A DVD compilation named \"\"Serial Experiments Lain DVD-BOX Яesurrection\" was released along with a promo DVD called \"LPR-309\" in 2000. As this box set is now discontinued, a rerelease was made in 2005 called \"Serial Experiments Lain TV-BOX\". A 4-volume DVD box set was released in the US by Pioneer/Geneon. A Blu-ray release of the anime was made in December 2009 called \"Serial Experiments Lain Blu-ray Box | RESTORE\"\". The anime series returned to US television on October 15, 2012 on the Funimation Channel.\nThe series' opening theme, \"Duvet\", was written and performed by Jasmine Rodgers and the British band Bôa. The ending theme, , was written and composed by Reichi Nakaido.\n\nThe anime series was licensed in North America by Pioneer Entertainment (later Geneon USA) on VHS, DVD and LaserDisc in 1999. However, the company closed its USA division in December 2007 and the series went out-of-print as a result. However, at Anime Expo 2010, North American distributor Funimation announced that it had obtained the license to the series and re-released it in 2012. It was also released in Singapore by Odex.\n\n\nThe first original soundtrack, \"Serial Experiments Lain Soundtrack\", features music by Reichi Nakaido: the ending theme and part of the television series' score, alongside other songs inspired by the series. The second, \"Serial Experiments Lain Soundtrack: Cyberia Mix\", features electronica songs inspired by the television series, including a remix of the opening theme \"Duvet\" by DJ Wasei. The third, \"lain BOOTLEG\", consists of the ambient score of the series across forty-five tracks. \"BOOTLEG\" also contains a second mixed-mode data and audio disc, containing a clock program and a game, as well as an extended version of the first disc – nearly double the length – across 57 tracks in 128 kbps MP3 format, and sound effects from the series in WAV format. Because the word \"bootleg\" appears in its title, it is easily confused with the Sonmay counterfeit edition of itself, which only contains the first disc in an edited format. All three soundtrack albums were released by Pioneer Records.\n\nThe series' opening theme, \"Duvet\", was written and performed in English by the British rock band Bôa. The band released the song as a single and as part of the EP \"Tall Snake\", which features both an acoustic version and DJ Wasei's remix from \"Cyberia Mix\".\n\nOn November 26, 1998, Pioneer LDC released a video game with the same name as the anime for the PlayStation. It was designed by Konaka and Yasuyuki, and made to be a \"network simulator\" in which the player would navigate to explore Lain's story. The creators themselves did not call it a game, but \"Psycho-Stretch-Ware\", and it has been described as being a kind of graphic novel: the gameplay is limited to unlocking pieces of information, and then reading/viewing/listening to them, with little or no puzzle needed to unlock. Lain distances itself even more from classical games by the random order in which information is collected. The aim of the authors was to let the player get the feeling that there are myriads of informations that they would have to sort through, and that they would have to do with less than what exists to understand. As with the anime, the creative team's main goal was to let the player \"feel\" Lain, and \"to understand her problems, and to love her\". A guidebook to the game called \"Serial Experiments Lain Official Guide\" () was released the same month by MediaWorks.\n\n\"Serial Experiments Lain\" was first broadcast in Tokyo at 1:15 a.m. JST. The word \"weird\" appears almost systematically in English language reviews of the series, or the alternatives \"bizarre\", and \"atypical\", due mostly to the freedoms taken with the animation and its unusual science fiction themes, and due to its philosophical and psychological context. Critics responded positively to these thematic and stylistic characteristics, and it was awarded an Excellence Prize by the 1998 Japan Media Arts Festival for \"its willingness to question the meaning of contemporary life\" and the \"extraordinarily philosophical and deep questions\" it asks.\n\nAccording to Christian Nutt from \"Newtype USA\", the main attraction to the series is its keen view on \"the interlocking problems of identity and technology\". Nutt saluted Abe's \"crisp, clean character design\" and the \"perfect soundtrack\" in his 2005 review of series, saying that \"\"Serial Experiments Lain\" might not yet be considered a true classic, but it's a fascinating evolutionary leap that helped change the future of anime.\" \"Anime Jump\" gave it 4.5/5, and Anime on DVD gave it A+ on all criteria for volume 1 and 2, and a mix of A and A+ for volume 3 and 4.\n\"Lain\" was subject to commentary in the literary and academic worlds. The \"Asian Horror Encyclopedia\" calls it \"an outstanding psycho-horror anime about the psychic and spiritual influence of the Internet\". It notes that the red spots present in all the shadows look like blood pools (see picture). It notes the death of a girl in a train accident is \"a source of much ghost lore in the twentieth century\", more so in Tokyo.\n\nThe \"Anime Essentials\" anthology by Gilles Poitras describes it as a \"complex and somehow existential\" anime that \"pushed the envelope\" of anime diversity in the 1990s, alongside the much better known \"Neon Genesis Evangelion\" and \"Cowboy Bebop\". Professor Susan J. Napier, in her 2003 reading to the American Philosophical Society called \"The Problem of Existence in Japanese Animation\" (published 2005), compared \"Serial Experiments Lain\" to \"Ghost in the Shell\" and Hayao Miyazaki's \"Spirited Away\". According to her, the main characters of the two other works cross barriers; they can cross back to our world, but Lain cannot. Napier asks whether there is something to which Lain should return, \"between an empty 'real' and a dark 'virtual'\". Mike Toole of Anime News Network named \"Serial Experiments Lain\" as one of the most important anime of the 1990s.\n\nUnlike the anime, the video game drew little attention from the public. Criticized for its (lack of) gameplay, as well as for its \"clunky interface\", interminable dialogues, absence of music and very long loading times, it was nonetheless remarked for its (at the time) remarkable CG graphics, and its beautiful backgrounds.\n\nDespite the positive feedback the television series had received, Anime Academy gave this series a 75%, partly due to the \"lifeless\" setting it had. Michael Poirier of \"EX\" magazine stated that the last three episodes fail to resolve the questions in other DVD volumes. Justin Sevakis of Anime News Network noted that the English dub was decent, but that the show relied so little on dialogue that it hardly mattered.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "327839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327839", "title": "Social promotion", "text": "Social promotion\n\nSocial studies the practice of promoting a student (usually a general education student, rather than a special education student) to the next grade after the current school year, regardless of if they learned the necessary material or if they are often absent. This is done in order to keep the students with their peers by age, that being the intended social grouping. It is sometimes referred to as promotion based on seat time, or the amount of time the child spent sitting in school. This is based on the enrollment criteria for Kindergarten, which is being 4 or 5 years old (5 or 6 years old for 1st graders) at the beginning of the school year. The intention is for the students to be able to graduate from high school level education before their 19th birthday.\n\nAdvocates of social promotion argue that promotion is done in order not to harm the students' or their classmates' self-esteem, to encourage socialization by age (together with their age cohort), to facilitate student involvement in sports teams, or to promote a student who is weak in one subject on the basis of strength in the other areas.\n\nIn Canada and the United States, social promotion is normally limited to primary education, because comprehensive secondary education is more flexible about determining which level of students take which classes due to the graduation requirements, which makes the concept of social promotion much less meaningful.\nIn some countries, grade retention is allowed when students haven't learned the necessary material or if they are often absent.\n\nThe opposite of social promotion would be to promote students once they learned the necessary material. This might be called \"merit promotion\", similar to the concept of a \"merit civil service\". The scope of the promotion might then be either to the next grade or to the next course in the same field. In a curriculum based on grades, this is usually called \"mid-term promotion\". In a curriculum based on courses rather than grades, the promotion is open-ended and is better understood as satisfying a prerequisite for the next course.\n\nSupporters of social promotion policies do not defend social promotion so much as say that retention is even worse. They argue that retention is not a cost-effective response to poor performance when compared to cheaper or more effective interventions, such as additional tutoring and summer school. They point to a wide range of research findings that show no advantage to, or even harm from, retention, and the tendency for gains from retention to wash out.\n\nHarm from grade retention cited by these critics include:\n\nCritics of retention also note that retention has hard financial costs for school systems: requiring a student to repeat a grade is essentially to add one student for a year to the school system, assuming that the student does not drop out. Some parents worry that older retained students will victimize younger students.\n\nOpponents of social promotion argue that it cheats children of education. When socially promoted children reach higher levels of education, they may be unprepared, may fail courses, and may not make normal progress towards graduation.\n\nOpponents of social promotion argue that it has the following negative impacts:\n\nSome hold that most students at the elementary school level don't take their education seriously and therefore retention is most likely not to be effective. Since most middle school students value their education more , retention should be used if they are judged not to have adequate skills before entering high school.\n\nIt can also be argued that social promotion, by keeping most students at the elementary school level from advancing at their own pace, is the reason they don't take their education seriously. Eliminating the social promotion system would then make the incentives of merit promotion more effective at the beginning of each student's academic career.\n\nIn the United States, retention is more common for boys and non-white students than it is for girls and white students. By the time students reach high school, the retention rate for boys is about ten percentage points higher than for girls. In the early grades, retention rates are similar among white Americans, African Americans, and Hispanic Americans. By high school, the rate is about 15 percentage points higher for African Americans and Hispanics than for whites.\n\nThere is much to be said about social promotion and retention. If students are socially promoted, some argue that they are being disadvantaged because they haven't learned the material. If they are retained, students will be older than their peers in the classroom, which may cause problems as well. African American boys are the group that are most often retained in school. By the time the students reach the ages of 15-17, 50% of African American boys are either below the grade of their peers that age or have dropped out of school. In contrast, only 30% of white girls ages 15–17 are below the modal grade of their peers.\n\nIn 1999, educational researcher Robert Hauser said of the New York City school district: \"In its plan to end social promotion the administration appears to have [included] ... an enforcement provision—flunking kids by the carload lot—about which the great mass of evidence is strongly negative. And this policy will hurt poor and minority children most of all.\" [Glavin, C. (2014, February 5). Studies. Retrieved from http://www.k12academics.com/education-issues/social-promotion/studies#.WSBLyLwrK8o]\n\nIn a study of 99,000 Florida students, Jay P. Greene and Marcus A. Winters found that \"retained students slightly outperformed socially promoted students in reading in the first year after retention, and these gains increased substantially in the second year. Results were robust across two distinct IV comparisons: an across-year approach comparing students who were essentially separated by the year in which they happened to have been born, and a regression discontinuity design.\" [\"Revisiting Grade Retention: An evaluation of Florida's test-based Promotion Policy in Education and Finance Policy, MIT Press, 2006]\n\nWith the proliferation of graded schools in the middle of the 19th century, retention became a common practice, as were mid-term promotions. In fact, a century ago, approximately half of all American students were retained at least once before the age of 13.\n\nSocial promotion began to spread in the 1930s along with concerns about the psychosocial effects of retention. This trend reversed in the 1980s, as concern about slipping academic standards rose.\n\nThe practice of grade retention in the U.S. has been climbing steadily since the 1980s, although local educational agencies may or may not follow this trend. For example, in 1982, New York City schools stopped social promotions. Within a few years, the problems caused by the change in policy led the city to start social promotion again. In 1999, the city once again eliminated social promotion; it reinstated it after the number of repeaters had mounted to 100,000 by 2004, driving up costs and leading to cutbacks in numerous programs, including those for helping underachievers.\n\nApart from the social promotion, there is the grade retention, in which students repeat a grade when they are judged to be a low performer. The aim of grade retention is to help the student learn and sharpen skills such as organization, management, study skills, literacy and academic which are very important before entering the next grade, college and the labor force.\n\nIn the US simple social promotion was not held to be an adequate alternative to the grade retention. Current theories among academic scholars prefer to address underperformance problems with remedial help. Students with singular needs or disabilities require special teaching approaches, equipment, or care within or outside a regular classroom. Since students with intellectual disabilities are handled separately, schools may treat two students with identical achievements differently, if one of the students is low-performing, but typically developing, and the other student is low-performing due to a disability.\n\nApart from the social promotion, there is the merit promotion, either by mid-term promotion or by using a course-based curriculum with a directed acyclic graph of prerequisites similar to college curricula. This alternative is unique in allowing each student to advance at his or her own pace. It would also save school districts money by ending the practice of warehousing \"talented and gifted students\" and allowing those students to graduate early.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60156", "title": "State fair", "text": "State fair\n\nA state fair is an annual competitive and recreational gathering of a U.S. state's population, usually held in late summer or early fall. It is a larger version of a county fair, often including only exhibits or competitors that have won in their categories at the more-local county fairs.\n\nState fairs began in the nineteenth century for the purpose of promoting state agriculture, through competitive exhibitions of livestock and display of farm products. As the U.S. evolved from a predominantly agrarian to an industrial society in the twentieth century, and the more service economy of the 21st century, modern state fairs have expanded to include carnival amusement rides and games, display of industrial products, automobile racing, and entertainment such as musical concerts. Large fairs can admit more than a million visitors over the course of a week or two. The first U.S. state fair was that of New York, held in 1841 in Syracuse, and has been held annually to the present year. The second state fair was in Detroit, Michigan, which ran from 1849 to 2009.\n\nEvents similar to state fairs are also held annually in each state capital in Australia, known as royal shows. Australian royal shows are organized by state agricultural and horticultural societies, and are described further in the agricultural show article.\n\nA few annual exhibitions in the summer in Canada are similar to state fairs in the United States:\n\nState and county fairs are famous for a variety of competitions that award \"ribbons\". Awards are generally given according to the following scale:\n\nThe largest attendance at a state fair in the USA is in Texas attracting an estimated 2,000,000 people annually. The largest average per day attendance is at the Minnesota State Fair averaging just under 200,000 people per day.\n\n"}
{"id": "3791822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3791822", "title": "Subvocal recognition", "text": "Subvocal recognition\n\nSubvocal recognition (SVR) is the process of taking subvocalization and converting the detected results to a digital output, aural or text-based.\n\nA set of electrodes are attached to the skin of the throat and, without opening the mouth or uttering a sound, the words are recognized by a computer.\n\nSubvocal speech recognition deals with electromyograms that are different for each speaker. Therefore, consistency can be thrown off just by the positioning of an electrode. To improve accuracy, researchers in this field are relying on statistical models that get better at pattern-matching the more times a subject \"speaks\" through the electrodes, but even then there are lapses. At Carnegie Mellon University, researchers found that the same \"speaker\" with accuracy rates of 94% one day can see that rate drop to 48% a day later; between two different speakers it drops even more.\n\nRelevant applications for this technology where audible speech is impossible: for astronauts, underwater Navy Seals, fighter pilots and emergency workers charging into loud, harsh environments. At Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts, research is underway to use subvocal information as a control source for computer music instruments.\n\nWith a grant from the U.S. Army, research into synthetic telepathy using subvocalization is taking place at the University of California, Irvine under lead scientist Mike D'Zmura.\n\nNASA's Ames Research Laboratory in Mountain View, California, under the supervision of Charles Jorgensen is conducting subvocalization research.\n\nThe Brain Computer Interface R&D program at Wadsworth Center under the New York State department of health has confirmed the existing ability to decipher consonants and vowels from imagined speech, which allows for brain-based communication using imagined speech.\n\nUS Patents on silent communication technologies include: US Patent 6587729 \"Apparatus for audibly communicating speech using the radio frequency hearing effect\", US Patent 5159703 \"Silent subliminal presentation system\", US Patent 6011991 \"Communication system and method including brain wave analysis and/or use of brain activity\", US Patent 3951134 \"Apparatus and method for remotely monitoring and altering brain waves\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42117574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42117574", "title": "Topothesia", "text": "Topothesia\n\nTopothesia is “the description of an imaginable or non-existent place”. It has been classified as a type of enargia (a synonym to “hypotyposis”), which is a “generic name for a group of figures aiming at vivid, lively description”. Edgar Allan Poe used enargia frequently to describe his characters in his literary works.\nAccording to Philip Hardie, a professor at the University of Cambridge, its determining characteristic is its position within a text. Normally, when the descriptive analysis of a place is found to discontinue a narrative, this interrupting section can be considered topothesia. In addition, it has a stereotyped entry formula that facilitates distinguishing the narrative from the descriptive. In most famous texts, topothesia begins with est locus (“there is a place” in Latin), as can be seen in \"Metamorphoses\" by Ovid.\n\nTopothesia is derived from a mixture of two Greek words: “topos” (τοπος), which literally translated means “place”, and the suffix “-thesia”, which is obtained from the noun \"thesis\", meaning “setting forth\". In ancient Greek the word always seems to refer to the description or arrangement of a real place, while the application of the word to an imaginary description (as opposed to \"topographia\", the description of a real place) is first found in the Latin commentator Servius.\n\nTopothesia is a tool often used in poetry rather than by orators. A renowned poet who frequently utilized topothesia along with other forms of enargia was Edgar Allan Poe. A popular poem that featured various examples of topothesia is “Dreamland”.\n\n<poem>:By a route obscure and lonely, \n\nHowever, this rhetorical term was apparent in other of Poe’s works of fiction like “The Domain of Arnheim”. This short story was recognized for its repeated use of topothesia. According to author and professor at York University, Brett Zimmerman, “the tale’s entire second half is a description of Arnheim, an artificial paradise on Earth – “the phantom handiwork, conjointly, of the Sylphs, of the Fairies, of the Genii, and of the Gnomes” (6: 196). We also have “Landor’s Cottage: A Pendant to ‘The Domain of Arnheim’.” That piece really has no plot; it is extended topothesia – an exercise in picturesque description of a place…”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "826464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=826464", "title": "Transhistoricity", "text": "Transhistoricity\n\nTranshistoricity is the quality of holding throughout human history, not merely within the frame of reference of a particular form of society at a particular stage of historical development. An entity or concept that has transhistoricity is said to be transhistorical.\n\nCertain theories of history (e.g. that of Hegel), treat human history as divided into distinct epochs with their own internal logics—historical materialism is the most famous case of such a theory. States of affairs which hold within one epoch may be completely absent, or carry opposite implications in another, according to these theories.\n\nTranshistoricity may be seen as the necessary antithesis to the idea that meanings are bounded by their historical context. It is the temporal equivalent of the spatial concept of universality.\n\nQuestions of what might and might not be transhistorical phenomena are typically the concern of historians and sociologists identifying with the historicist traditions of Hegelian or Marxian thought, but matter additionally in the debates around Thomas Kuhn's notion of paradigm shift and similar discussions. \n\nFredric Jameson, a Marxist or perhaps post-modern theorist, is a case in point. He famously asserted that theory must \"Always historicize!\", going on to wryly observe that this order was itself a \"transhistorical imperative\".\n\nOthers look for transhistorical continuities to inform what's basic to the human condition. For example, D. K. Simonton, finds some regularities in the types of ideas that gain ascendancy following certain types of historical events, in a data series spanning 2,500 years.\n\nIn more recent years, research in the vicinity of Evolutionary psychology has proceeded on the basis that some observed transcultural regularities in human behaviour are also transhistoric, accounted for by their being fixed in the genetic legacy common to all \"Homo sapiens\".\n\nPart of the debate over the distinction between high art and folk art (or lesser disciplines) hinges on the question of whether art can (and if so, if it should) aspire to transcend the particular frame of reference within which it was produced. This frame may be taken to be historically delimited.\n"}
{"id": "58948411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58948411", "title": "Venus in culture", "text": "Venus in culture\n\nVenus, as one of the brightest objects in the sky, has been known since prehistoric times and has been a major fixture in human culture for as long as records have existed. As such, it has a prominent position in human culture, religion, and myth. It has been made sacred to gods of many cultures, and has been a prime inspiration for writers and poets as the \"morning star\" and \"evening star\".\n\nWhat is now known as the planet Venus has long been an object of fascination for cultures worldwide. It is the second brightest object in the night sky, and follows a synodic cycle by which it seems to disappear for several says due to its proximity to the sun, then re-appear on the opposite side of the sun and on the other horizon. Depending on the point in its cycle, Venus may appear before sunrise in the morning, or after sunset in the evening, but it never appears to reach the apex of the sky. Therefore, many cultures have recognized it with two names, even if their astronomers realized that it was really one object.\n\nIn old English, the planet was known as \"morgensteorra\" (morning star) and \"æfensteorra\" (evening star). It was not until the 13th century C.E. that the name \"Venus\" was adopted for the planet (in classical Latin, though the morning star was considered sacred to the goddess Venus, it was called Lucifer).\n\nIn Chinese the planet is called \"Jīn-xīng\" (金星), the golden planet of the metal element. It is known as \"Kejora\" in Indonesian and Malay.\nModern Chinese, Japanese and Korean cultures refer to the planet literally as the \"metal star\" (), based on the Five elements.\n\nBecause the movements of Venus appear to be discontinuous (it disappears due to its proximity to the Sun, for many days at a time, and then reappears on the other horizon), some cultures did not recognize Venus as single entity; instead, they assumed it to be two separate stars on each horizon: the morning and evening star. Nonetheless, a cylinder seal from the Jemdet Nasr period indicates that the ancient Sumerians already knew that the morning and evening stars were the same celestial object. The Sumerians associated the planet with the goddess Inanna, who was known as Ishtar by the later Akkadians and Babylonians. She had a dual role as a goddess of both love and war, thereby representing a deity that presided over birth and death.\n\nThe discontinuous movements of Venus relate to both Inanna's mythology as well as her dual nature. Inanna's actions in several of her myths, including \"Inanna and Shukaletuda\" and \"Inanna's Descent into the Underworld\" appear to parallel the motion of the planet Venus as it progresses through its synodic cycle. For example, in \"Inanna's Descent to the Underworld\", Inanna is able to descend into the netherworld, where she is killed, and then resurrected three days later to return to the heavens. An interpretation of this myth by Clyde Hostetter holds that it is an allegory for the movements of the planet Venus, beginning with the spring equinox and concluding with a meteor shower near the end of one synodic period of Venus. The three-day disappearance of Inanna refers to the three-day planetary disappearance of Venus between its appearance as a morning and evening star. An introductory hymn to this myth describes Inanna leaving the heavens and heading for \"Kur\", what could be presumed to be the mountains, replicating the rising and setting of Inanna to the West. In the myth \"Inanna and Shukaletuda\", Shukaletuda is described as scanning the heavens in search of Inanna, possibly searching the eastern and western horizons. In the same myth, while searching for her attacker, Inanna herself makes several movements that correspond with the movements of Venus in the sky. Inanna-Ishtar's most common symbol was the eight-pointed star. The eight-pointed star seems to have originally borne a general association with the heavens, but, by the Old Babylonian Period ( 1830 – 1531 BC), it had come to be specifically associated with the planet Venus, with which Ishtar was identified.\n\nIn the Old Babylonian period, the planet Venus was known as Ninsi'anna, and later as Dilbat. \" Ninsi'anna\" translates to \"divine lady, illumination of heaven\", which refers to Venus as the brightest visible \"star\". Earlier spellings of the name were written with the cuneiform sign si4 (= SU, meaning \"to be red\"), and the original meaning may have been \"divine lady of the redness of heaven\", in reference to the color of the morning and evening sky. Venus is described in Babylonian cuneiform texts such as the Venus tablet of Ammisaduqa, which relates observations that possibly date from 1600 BC.\n\nIn ancient Canaanite religion, the morning star is personified as the god Attar, a masculine variant of the name of the Babylonian goddess Ishtar. In myth, Attar attempted to occupy the throne of Ba'al and, finding he was unable to do so, descended and ruled the underworld. The original myth may have been about a lesser god, Helel, trying to dethrone the Canaanite high god El, who was believed to live on a mountain to the north. Hermann Gunkel's reconstruction of the myth told of a mighty warrior called Hêlal, whose ambition was to ascend higher than all the other stellar divinities, but who had to descend to the depths. It thus portrayed as a battle the process by which the bright morning star fails to reach the highest point in the sky before being faded out by the rising sun.\n\nSimilarities have been noted with the story of Inanna's descent into the underworld, Ishtar and Inanna being associated with the planet Venus. A connection has been seen also with the Babylonian myth of Etana. The \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" comments:\n\nIn the Hebrew language Book of Isaiah, chapter 14, the King of Babylon is condemned using imagery derived from Canaanite myth, and is called (, Hebrew for \"shining one, son of the morning\"). The title \"Helel ben Shahar\" may refer to the planet Venus as the morning star. The Hebrew word transliterated as \"Hêlêl\" or \"Heylel\" (pron. as \"Hay-LALE\"), occurs only once in the Hebrew Bible. The Septuagint renders הֵילֵל in Greek as Ἑωσφόρος (\"heōsphoros\"), \"bringer of dawn\", the Ancient Greek name for the morning star. According to the King James Bible-based Strong's Concordance, the original Hebrew word means \"shining one, light-bearer\", and the translation given in the King James text is the Latin name for the planet Venus, \"Lucifer\". However, the translation of הֵילֵל with the name \"Lucifer\" has been abandoned in modern English translations of Isaiah 14:12. In a modern translation from the original Hebrew, the passage in which the name occurs begins with the statement: \"On the day the Lord gives you relief from your suffering and turmoil and from the harsh labour forced on you, you will take up this taunt against the king of Babylon: How the oppressor has come to an end! How his fury has ended!\" After describing the death of the king, the taunt continues:\n\nThis passage was the origin of the later belief that Satan was a fallen angel, who could also be referred to as \"Lucifer\". However, it originally referred to the rise and disappearance of the morning star as an allegory for the fall of a once-proud king. This allegorical understanding of Isaiah seems to be the most accepted interpretation in the New Testament, as well as among early Christians such as Origen, Eusebius, Tertullian, and Gregory the Great. The fallen angel motif may therefore be considered a Christian \"remythologization\" of Isaiah 14, returning its allegorical imagery of the hubris of a historical ruler to the original roots of the Canaanite myth of a lesser god trying and failing to claim the throne of the heavens, who is then cast down to the underworld.\n\nIn India \"Shukra Graha\" (\"the planet Shukra\") which is named after a powerful saint Shukra. \"Shukra\" which is used in Indian Vedic astrology means \"clear, pure\" or \"brightness, clearness\" in Sanskrit. One of the nine Navagraha, it is held to affect wealth, pleasure and reproduction; it was the son of Bhrgu, preceptor of the Daityas, and guru of the Asuras. The word \"Shukra\" is also associated with semen, or generation.\n\nThe Ancient Egyptians believed Venus to be two separate bodies and knew the morning star as \"Tioumoutiri\" and the evening star as \"Ouaiti\".\n\nIn Iranian mythology, especially in Persian mythology, the planet usually corresponds to the goddess Anahita. In some parts of Pahlavi literature the deities \"Aredvi Sura\" and \"Anahita\" are regarded as separate entities, the first one as a personification of the mythical river and the latter as a goddess of fertility, which is associated with the planet Venus. As the goddess Aredvi Sura Anahita—and simply called \"Anahita\" as well—both deities are unified in other descriptions, e. g. in the \"Greater Bundahishn\", and are represented by the planet. In the Avestan text Mehr Yasht (\"Yasht 10\") there is a possible early link to Mithra. The Persian name of the planet today is \"Nahid\", which derives from Anahita and later in history from the Pahlavi language \"Anahid\".\n\nThe Ancient Greeks called the morning star , , the \"Bringer of Light\". Another Greek name for the morning star was Heosphoros (Greek \"Heōsphoros\"), meaning \"Dawn-Bringer\". They called the evening star, which was long considered a separate celestial object, \"\" (, the \"star of the evening\"). By Hellenistic times, the ancient Greeks had identified these as a single planet, though the traditional use of two names for its appearance in the morning and the evening continued even into the Roman period.\n\nThe Greek myth of Phaethon, whose name means \"Shining One\", has also been seen as similar to those of other gods who cyclically descend from the heavens, like Inanna and Attar.\n\nIn classical mythology, Lucifer (\"light-bringer\" in Latin) was the name of the planet Venus as the morning star (s the evening star it was called Vesper), and it was often personified as a male figure bearing a torch. Lucifer was said to be \"the fabled son of Aurora and Cephalus, and father of Ceyx\". He was often presented in poetry as heralding the dawn.\n\nThe Romans considered the planet Lucifer particularly sacred to the goddess Venus, whose name eventually became the scientific name for the planet. The second century Roman mythographer Pseudo-Hyginus said of the planet: \n\nOvid, in his first century epic \"Metamorphoses\", describes Lucifer as ordering the heavens:\nIn the classical Roman period, Lucifer was not typically regarded as a deity and had few, if any, myths, though the planet was associated with various deities and often poetically personified. Cicero pointed out that \"You say that Sol the Sun and Luna the Moon are deities, and the Greeks identify the former with Apollo and the latter with Diana. But if Luna (the Moon) is a goddess, then Lucifer (the Morning-Star) also and the rest of the Wandering Stars (Stellae Errantes) will have to be counted gods; and if so, then the Fixed Stars (Stellae Inerrantes) as well.\"\n\nIn Islamic traditions the morning star is called \"Zohra\" or \"Zohrah\" and commonly related to a \"beautiful woman\". According to myth, of which an echo is found in a play by the 17th-century English poet William Percy, two angels, Harut and Marut, descended to earth and were seduced by Zohra's beauty to commit \"shirk\": murder, adultery and drinking wine. In their drunken state, Zohra elicited from these angels the secret words to ascend to heaven. When she spoke the secret words, she elevated herself to the first heaven, but was imprisoned there (i.e. transformed into the planet Venus).\n\nVenus was considered the most important celestial body observed by the Maya, who called it \"Chac ek\", or \"Noh Ek\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>, \"the Great Star\". The Maya monitored the movements of Venus closely and observed it in daytime. The positions of Venus and other planets were thought to influence life on Earth, so the Maya and other ancient Mesoamerican cultures timed wars and other important events based on their observations. In the Dresden Codex, the Maya included an almanac showing Venus's full cycle, in five sets of 584 days each (approximately eight years), after which the patterns repeated (since Venus has a synodic period of 583.92 days).\n\nThe Maya civilization developed a religious calendar, based in part upon the motions of the planet, and held the motions of Venus to determine the propitious time for events such as war. They also named it \"Xux Ek\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>, the Wasp Star. The Maya were aware of the planet's synodic period, and could compute it to within a hundredth part of a day.\n\nThe Maasai people named the planet \"Kileken\", and have an oral tradition about it called \"The Orphan Boy\".\n\nVenus is important in many Australian aboriginal cultures, such as that of the Yolngu people in Northern Australia. The Yolngu gather after sunset to await the rising of Venus, which they call \"Barnumbirr\". As she approaches, in the early hours before dawn, she draws behind her a rope of light attached to the Earth, and along this rope, with the aid of a richly decorated \"Morning Star Pole\", the people are able to communicate with their dead loved ones, showing that they still love and remember them. Barnumbirr is also an important creator-spirit in the Dreaming, and \"sang\" much of the country into life.\n\nVenus plays a prominent role in Pawnee mythology. The Pawnee, a North American native tribe, until as late as 1838, practiced a morning star ritual in which a girl was sacrificed to the morning star.\n\nIn western astrology, derived from its historical connotation with goddesses of femininity and love, Venus is held to influence desire and sexual fertility.\n\nIn the metaphysical system of Theosophy, it is believed that on the etheric plane of Venus there is a civilization that existed hundreds of millions of years before Earth's and it is also believed that the governing deity of Earth, Sanat Kumara, is from Venus.\n\nThe discovery in the modern era that Venus was a distant world covered in impenetrable cloud cover gave science fiction writers free rein to speculate on conditions at its surface; all the more so when early observations showed that not only was it similar in size to Earth, it possessed a substantial atmosphere. Closer to the Sun than Earth, the planet was frequently depicted as warmer, but still habitable by humans. The genre reached its peak between the 1930s and 1950s, at a time when science had revealed some aspects of Venus, but not yet the harsh reality of its surface conditions. Findings from the first missions to Venus showed the reality to be quite different, and brought this particular genre to an end. As scientific knowledge of Venus advanced, so science fiction authors tried to keep pace, particularly by conjecturing human attempts to terraform Venus.\n\nAnother appearance of Venus in popular culture is as the harbinger of destruction in Immanuel Velikovsky's \"Worlds in Collision\" (1950). In this controversial book, Velikovsky argued that many seemingly unbelievable stories in the Old Testament are true recollections of times when Venus, which Velikovsky claimed had somehow been ejected from Jupiter as a comet, nearly collided with the Earth. He contended that Venus caused most of the strange events of the Exodus story. He cites legends in many other cultures (including the Greek, Mexican, Chinese and Indian) indicating that the effects of the near-collision were global. The scientific community rejected his unorthodox book, but it became a bestseller.\n"}
{"id": "17367962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17367962", "title": "Woodcraft", "text": "Woodcraft\n\nThe term woodcraft — or woodlore — denotes skills and experience in matters relating to living and thriving in the woods—such as hunting, fishing, and camping—whether on a short- or long-term basis. Traditionally, woodcraft pertains to subsistence lifestyles, with implications of hunting-gathering. In more recent times, and in developed countries, it relates more to either outdoor recreationalism or survivalism. \n\nWhether traditional or modern, \"woodcraft\" may be roughly equated to the phrase \"living off the land\".\n\nA partial list of recreational woodcraft techniques might include knowledge of wildlife behavior, identifying and utilizing wild plants and animals (especially for food), camp cooking, orienteering (including hiking skills and use of a map and compass), fire making (including procurement of firewood), selecting and preparing a campsite, lashing and knot techniques, the use of tents and wilderness first aid. \n\nThe Scouting movement has adopted woodcraft techniques as a core skill set known as scoutcraft.\n\nIn the United States, woodcraft techniques in a military context are taught as part of SERE (Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape) training.\n\nTraditional woodcraft has particular importance in American folklore, especially that relating to the early American frontier.\n\nIn the UK, the Woodcraft Folk are an organisation founded on the principles of woodcraft.\n\n\n"}
