{"id": "17005572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17005572", "title": "Abdulaziz bin Ahmed Al Saud", "text": "Abdulaziz bin Ahmed Al Saud\n\nAbdulaziz bin Ahmed () (born 1963) is a Saudi businessman and a member of the Saudi Royal Family.\n\nPrince Abdulaziz was born on 20 June 1963. His father is Saudi Arabia's former minister of interior, Ahmed bin Abdulaziz. He is a full nephew of King Fahd and King Salman of Saudi Arabia.\n\nAbdulaziz bin Ahmed graduated from King Saud University in 1986 with a double major in political science and administration science.\n\nPrince Abdulaziz is a leading humanitarian activist on the national, regional and international levels, with close links to the World Health Organization. He is founder and chairman of IMPACT–Eastern Mediterranean Region (a regional non-governmental organization NGO that is active in the field of prevention of blindness), and Middle East African Council of Ophthalmology (MEACO). He is also chairman of Eastern Mediterranean Region of the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness (EMR-IAPB), President of Saudi Ophthalmological Society (SOS), He is a member in the IAPB board of trustees. He was board member of Disabled Children Association of Saudi Arabia. He is also global ambassador of the International Trachoma Initiative and a member of the International Council of Ophthalmology Foundation (ICOF).\n\nAbdulaziz bin Ahmed received the Global Lifetime Achievement Award from the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness (IAPB) during its 7th General Assembly in Dubai in September 2004, the Shield of the joint 4th International Conference for the Arab Ophthalmology Association and the 1st Bahrain Ophthalmology Conference in recognition of his regional and global efforts endorsing the ‘VISION 2020:The Right to Sight’ global initiative. These efforts resulted in VISION 2020 adoption in all 22 countries of EMR region by September 2004. He also received the Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award by the Emirates Ophthalmic Society in recognition of his dedicated work in the field of Prevention of Blindness in April 2005 and the Order of the TWO-NILES Medal by President of Sudan General Omar Al Bashir in November 2005.\n\nIn 2007, Prince Abdulaziz was awarded an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI).\n\nAbdulaziz bin Ahmed is a businessman. He is the chairman of Atheeb Group, a diversified investment conglomerate with stakes in telecommunications, contracting, defense, ports, shipping and other industries. He is also the CEO of Atheeb Trading Company. In addition, he is actively involved as a major partner in numerous leading Saudi private and joint venture business and industries.\n\nAbdulaziz bin Ahmed is married with two children: Turki and Maha. He is known to be fond of falcon hunting and horses, and he owns \"Athba\" stables which include a large number of fine horses.\n\n"}
{"id": "364788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364788", "title": "Alfred Stieglitz", "text": "Alfred Stieglitz\n\nAlfred Stieglitz (January 1, 1864 – July 13, 1946) was an American photographer and modern art promoter who was instrumental over his fifty-year career in making photography an accepted art form. In addition to his photography, Stieglitz was known for the New York art galleries that he ran in the early part of the 20th century, where he introduced many avant-garde European artists to the U.S. He was married to painter Georgia O'Keeffe.\n\nStieglitz was born in Hoboken, New Jersey, the first son of German Jewish immigrants Edward Stieglitz (1833–1909) and Hedwig Ann Werner (1845–1922). His father was a lieutenant in the Union Army. He had five siblings, Flora (1865–1890), twins Julius (1867–1937) and Leopold (1867–1956), Agnes (1869–1952) and Selma (1871–1957). Alfred Stieglitz, seeing the close relationship of the twins, wished he had a soul mate of his own during his childhood.\n\nStieglitz attended Charlier Institute, a Christian school and the best private school in New York, in 1871. The following year, his family began spending the summers at Lake George in the Adirondack Mountains, a tradition that continued into Stieglitz's adulthood.\n\nSo that he would qualify for admission to the City College of New York, Stieglitz was enrolled in a public school for his senior year of high school, but found the education inadequate. In 1881, Edward Stieglitz sold his company for US$400,000 and moved his family to Europe for the next several years so that his children would receive a better education. Alfred Stieglitz enrolled in the Real gymnasium in Karlsruhe. The next year, Stieglitz studied mechanical engineering at the Technische Hochschule in Berlin. He enrolled in a chemistry class taught by Hermann Wilhelm Vogel, a scientist and researcher, who worked on the chemical processes for developing photographs. In Vogel, Stieglitz found both the academic challenge he needed and an outlet for his growing artistic and cultural interests. He received an allowance of $1,200 () a month.\n\nGerman artists Adolf von Menzel and Wilhelm Hasemann were his friends. He bought his first camera and traveled through the European countryside, taking photographs of landscapes and peasants in Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. Photography, he later wrote, \"fascinated me, first as a toy, then as a passion, then as an obsession.\"\nIn 1884, his parents returned to America, but 20-year-old Stieglitz remained in Germany and collected books on photography and photographers in Europe and the U.S. Through his self-study, he saw photography as an art form. In 1887, he wrote his very first article, \"A Word or Two about Amateur Photography in Germany\", for the new magazine \"The Amateur Photographer\". He then wrote articles on the technical and aesthetic aspects of photography for magazines in England and Germany.\nHe won first place for his photography, \"The Last Joke, Bellagio\", in 1887 from \"Amateur Photographer\". The next year he won both first and second prizes in the same competition, and his reputation began to spread as several German and British photographic magazines published his work.\n\nIn 1890, his sister Flora died while giving birth, and Stieglitz returned to New York.\n\nStieglitz considered himself an artist, but he refused to sell his photographs. His father purchased a small photography business for him so that he could earn a living in his chosen profession. Because he demanded high quality images and paid his employee high wages, the Photochrome Engraving Company rarely made a profit. He regularly wrote for \"The American Amateur Photographer\" magazine. He won awards for his photographs at exhibitions, including the joint exhibition of the Boston Camera Club, Photographic Society of Philadelphia and the Society of Amateur Photographers of New York.\n\nIn late 1892, Stieglitz bought his first hand-held camera, a Folmer and Schwing 4×5 plate film camera, which he used to take two of his best known images, \"Winter, Fifth Avenue\" and \"The Terminal\". Prior to that he used a 8×10 plate film camera that required a tripod.\n\nStieglitz gained a reputation for his photography and his magazine articles about how photography is a form of art. In the spring of 1893, he became co-editor of \"The American Amateur Photographer\". In order to avoid the appearance of bias in his opinions and because Photochrome was now printing the photogravures for the magazine, Stieglitz refused to draw a salary. He wrote most of the articles and reviews in the magazine, and was known for both his technical and his critical content.\nOn November 16, 1893, the 29 year-old Stieglitz married 20 year-old Emmeline Obermeyer, the sister of his close friend and business associate Joe Obermeyer and granddaughter of brewer Samuel Liebmann. They were married in New York City. Stieglitz later wrote that he did not love Emmy, as she was commonly known, when they were married and that their marriage was not consummated for at least a year. Daughter of a wealthy brewery owner, she had inherited money from her father, a wealthy brewery owner and his father lost a great deal of money in the stock market. He came to regret his decision to marry Emmy, as she did not share his artistic and cultural interests. Stieglitz biographer Richard Whelan summed up their relationship by saying Stieglitz \"resented her bitterly for not becoming his twin.\" Throughout his life Stieglitz maintained a fetish for younger women.\nIn early 1894, Stieglitz and his wife took a delayed honeymoon to France, Italy and Switzerland. Stieglitz photographed extensively on the trip, producing some of his early famous images such as \"A Venetian Canal\", \"The Net Mender\" and \"A Wet Day on the Boulevard, Paris\". While in Paris, Stieglitz met French photographer Robert Demachy, who became a lifelong correspondent and colleague. In London, Stieglitz met The Linked Ring founders George Davison and Alfred Horsley Hinton, both of whom remained his friends and colleagues throughout much of his life.\n\nLater in the year, after his return, Stieglitz was unanimously elected as one of the first two American members of The Linked Ring. Stieglitz saw this recognition as the impetus he needed to step up his cause of promoting artistic photography in the United States. At the time there were two photographic clubs in New York, the Society of Amateur Photographers and the New York Camera Club. Stieglitz resigned from his position at the Photochrome Company and as editor of \"American Amateur Photographer\" and spent most of 1895 negotiating a merger of the two clubs.\n\nIn May 1896, the two organizations joined to form The Camera Club of New York. Although offered the organization's presidency, he became vice-president. He developed programs for the club and was involved in all aspects of the organization. He told journalist Theodore Dreiser he wanted to \"make the club so large, its labors so distinguished and its authority so final that [it] may satisfactorily use its great prestige to compel recognition for the individual artists without and within its walls.\"\n\nStieglitz turned the Camera Club's current newsletter into a magazine, \"Camera Notes\", and was given full control over the new publication. Its first issue was published in July 1897. It was soon considered the finest photographic magazine in the world. Over the next four years Stieglitz used \"Camera Notes\" to champion his belief in photography as an art form by including articles on art and aesthetics next to prints by some of the leading American and European photographers. Critic Sadakichi Hartmann wrote \"it seemed to me that artistic photography, the Camera Club and Alfred Stieglitz were only three names for one and the same thing.\"\n\nHe also continued to take his own photographs. Late in 1897, he hand-pulled the photogravures for a first portfolio of his own work, \"Picturesque Bits of New York and Other Studies\". He continued to exhibit in shows in Europe and the U.S., and by 1898 his gained a solid reputation as a photographer. He was paid $75 () for his favorite print, \"Winter – Fifth Avenue\". Ten of Stieglitz's prints were selected that year for the first Philadelphia Photographic Salon, where he met and then became friends of Gertrude Käsebier and Clarence H. White.\n\nOn September 27, 1898, Stieglitz's daughter, Katherine \"Kitty\", was born. Using Emmy's inheritance, the couple hired a governess, cook and a chambermaid. Stieglitz worked at the same pace as before the birth of his daughter, and as a result, the couple predominantly lived separate lives under the same roof.\n\nIn November 1898, a group of photographers in Munich, Germany, mounted an exhibit of their work in conjunction with a show of graphic prints from artists that included Edvard Munch and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. They called themselves the \"Secessionists\", a term that Stieglitz latched onto for both its artistic and its social meanings. Four years later, he used this same name for a newly formed group of pictorial photographers that he organized in New York.\n\nIn May 1899, Stieglitz was given a one-man exhibition, consisting of eighty-seven prints, at the Camera Club. The strain of preparing for this show, coupled with the continuing efforts to produce \"Camera Notes\", took a toll on Stieglitz's health. To lessen his burden he brought in his friends Joseph Keiley and Dallet Fugeut, neither of whom were members of the Camera Club, as associate editors of \"Camera Notes\". Upset by this intrusion from outsiders, not to mention their own diminishing presence in the Club's publication, many of the older members of the Club began to actively campaign against Stieglitz's editorial authority. Stieglitz spent most of 1900 finding ways to outmaneuver these efforts, embroiling him in protracted administrative battles.\n\nOne of the few highlights of that year was Stieglitz's introduction to a new photographer, Edward Steichen, at the First Chicago Photographic Salon. Steichen, originally a painter, he brought many of his artistic instincts to photography. The two became good friends and colleagues.\n\nDue to the continued strain of managing the Camera Club, by the following year he collapsed in the first of several mental breakdowns. He spent much of the summer at the family's Lake George home, Oaklawn, recuperating. When he returned to New York, he announced his resignation as editor of \"Camera Notes\".\n\nPhotographer Eva Watson-Schütze urged him to establish an exhibition that would be judged solely by photographers who, unlike painters and other artists, knew about photography and its technical characteristics. In December 1901, he was invited by Charles DeKay of the National Arts Club to put together an exhibition in which Stieglitz would have \"full power to follow his own inclinations.\" Within two months Stieglitz had assembled a collection of prints from a close circle of his friends, which, in homage to the Munich photographers, he called the Photo-Secession. \n\nWe are searching for the ultimate truth... We believe that if only people are taught to appreciate the beautiful side of their daily existence, to be aware of all the beauty which constantly surrounds them, they must gradually approach this ideal. For beauty is the ultimate truth, and truth means freedom.\"\n\nStieglitz was not only declaring a secession from the general artistic restrictions of the era, but specifically from the official oversight of the Camera Club. The show opened at the Arts Club in early March 1902, and it was an immediate success.\n\nHe began formulating a plan to publish a completely independent magazine of pictorial photography to carry forth the artistic standards of the Photo-Secessionist. By July, he had fully resigned as editor of \"Camera Notes\", and one month later he published a prospectus for a new journal he called \"Camera Work\". He was determined it would be \"the best and most sumptuous of photographic publications\". The first issue was printed four months later, in December 1902, and like all of the subsequent issues it contained beautiful hand-pulled photogravures, critical writings on photography, aesthetics and art, and reviews and commentaries on photographers and exhibitions. \"Camera Work\" was \"the first photographic journal to be visual in focus.\"\n\nStieglitz was a perfectionist, and it showed in every aspect of \"Camera Work\". He advanced the art of photogravure printing by demanding unprecedentedly high standards for the prints in \"Camera Work\". The visual quality of the gravures was so high that when a set of prints failed to arrive for a Photo-Secession exhibition in Brussels, a selection of gravures from the magazine was hung instead. Most viewers assumed they were looking at the original photographs.\n\nThroughout 1903, Stieglitz published \"Camera Work\" and worked to exhibit his own work and that of the Photo-Secessionists while dealing with the stresses of his home life. Luxembourgish American photographer, Edward Steichen, who later would curate the landmark exhibit The Family of Man; was the most frequently featured photographer in the magazine. Fuguet, Keiley, and Strauss, were associated editors although he brought on the same three associate editors he had at \"Camera Notes\", also worked at \"Camera Work\", but was involved in the details of the publication(?). Later he said that he alone individually wrapped and mailed some 35,000 copies of \"Camera Work\" over the course of its publication.\n\nBy 1904, Stieglitz was again mentally and physically exhausted and decided to take his family to Europe in May. He planned a grueling schedule of exhibitions, meetings and excursions and collapsed almost upon arrival in Berlin, where he spent more than a month recuperating. He spent much of the rest of 1904 photographing Germany while his family visited their relations there. On his way back to the U. S. Stieglitz stopped in London and met with leaders of the Linked Ring but was unable to convince them to set up a chapter of their organization in America (with Stieglitz as the director).\nOn November 25, 1905, the Little Galleries of the Photo-Secession\" opened on Fifth Avenue with one hundred prints by thirty-nine photographers. Edward Steichen had recommended and encourage Stieglitz, on his return from Europe, to lease out three rooms across from Steichen's apartment that the pair felt would be perfect to exhibit photography. The gallery became an instant success, with almost fifteen thousand visitors during its first season and, more importantly, print sales that totaled nearly $2,800. Work by his friend Steichen, who had an apartment in the same building, accounted for more than half of those sales.\n\nStieglitz continued to focus his efforts on photography, at the expense of his family. Emmy, who hoped she would one day earn Stieglitz's love, continued giving him an allowance from her inheritance.\n\nIn the October 1906 issue of \"Camera Work\", his friend Joseph Keiley said: \"Today in America the real battle for which the Photo-Secession was established has been accomplished – the serious recognition of photography as an additional medium of pictorial expression.\"\n\nTwo months later the 42 year-old Stieglitz met 28 year-old artist Pamela Colman Smith, who wished to have her drawings and watercolors shown at his gallery. He decided to show her work because he thought it would be \"highly instructive to compare drawings and photographs in order to judge photography's possibilities and limitations\". Her show opened in January 1907, with far more visitors to the gallery than any of the previous photography shows, and soon all of her exhibited works were sold. Stieglitz, hoping to capitalize on the popularity of the show, took photographs of her art work and issued a separate portfolio of his platinum prints of her work.\n\nIn the late spring of 1907, Stieglitz collaborated on a series of photographic experiments with his friend Clarence H. White. They took several dozen photographs of two clothed and nude models and printed a selection using unusual techniques, including toning, waxing and drawing on platinum prints. According to Stieglitz, it overcame \"the impossibility of the camera to do certain things.\"\n\nHe made less than $400 for the year due to declining \"Camera Work\" subscriptions and the gallery's low profit margin. For years, Emmy had maintained an extravagant lifestyle that included a full-time governess for Kitty and expensive European vacations. In spite of her father's concerns about his growing financial problems, the Stieglitz family and their governess once again sailed across the Atlantic.\nWhile on his way to Europe, Stieglitz took what is recognized not only as his signature image but also as one of the most important photographs of the 20th century. Aiming his camera at the lower class passengers in the bow of the ship, he captured a scene he titled \"The Steerage\". He did not publish or exhibit it for four years.\n\nWhile in Europe, Stieglitz saw the first commercial demonstration of the Autochrome Lumière color photography process, and soon he was experimenting with it in Paris with Steichen, Frank Eugene and Alvin Langdon Coburn. He took three of Steichen's Autochromes with him to Munich in order to have four-color reproductions made for insertion into a future issue of \"Camera Work\".\n\nHe was asked to resign from the Camera Club, but due to protests by other members he was reinstated as a life member. Just after he presented a groundbreaking show of Auguste Rodin's drawings, his financial problems forced him to close the Little Galleries for a brief period, until February 1908, when it was reopened under the new name \"291\".\n\nStieglitz deliberately interspersed exhibitions of what he knew would be controversial art, such as Rodin's sexually explicit drawings, with what Steichen called \"understandable art\", and with photographs. The intention was to \"set up a dialogue that would enable 291 visitors to see, discuss and ponder the differences and similarities between artists of all ranks and types: between painters, draftsmen, sculptors and photographers; between European and American artists; between older or more established figures and younger, newer practitioners.\" During this same period the National Arts Club mounted a \"Special Exhibition of Contemporary Art\" that included photographs by Stieglitz, Steichen, Käsebier and White along with paintings by Mary Cassatt, William Glackens, Robert Henri, James McNeill Whistler and others. This is thought to have been the first major show in the U.S. in which photographers were given equal ranking with painters.\n\nFor most of 1908 and 1909, Stieglitz spent his time creating shows at 291 and publishing \"Camera Work\". There were no photographs taken during this period that appear in the definitive catalog of his work, \"Alfred Stieglitz: The Key Set\".\n\nIn May 1909, Stieglitz's father Edward died, and in his will he left his son the then significant sum of $10,000 (). Stieglitz used this new infusion of cash to keep his gallery and \"Camera Work\" in business for the next several years.\n\nDuring this period, Stieglitz met Marius de Zayas, an energetic and charismatic artist from Mexico, who became one of his closest colleagues, assisting both with shows at the gallery and with introducing Stieglitz to new artists in Europe. As Stieglitz's reputation as a promoter of European modern art increased, he soon was approached by several new American artists hoping to have their works shown. Stieglitz was intrigued by their modern vision, within months Alfred Maurer, John Marin and Marsden Hartley all had their works hanging on the walls of 291.\n\nIn 1910, Stieglitz was invited by the director of the Albright Art Gallery to organize a major show of the best of contemporary photography. Although an announcement of an open competition for the show was printed in \"Camera Work\", the fact that Stieglitz would be in charge of it generated a new round of attacks against him. An editorial in \"American Photography\" magazine claimed that Stieglitz could no longer \"perceive the value of photographic work of artistic merit which does not conform to a particular style which is so characteristic of all exhibitions under his auspices. Half a generation ago this school [the Photo-Secession] was progressive, and far in advance of its time. Today it is not progressing, but is a reactionary force of the most dangerous type.\"\n\nStieglitz wrote to fellow photographer George Seeley \"The reputation, not only of the Photo-Secession, but of photography is at stake, and I intend to muster all the forces available to win out for us.\" The exhibition opened in October with more than 600 photographs. Critics generally praised the beautiful aesthetic and technical qualities of the works. However, his critics found that the vast majority of the prints in the show were from the same photographers Stieglitz had known for years and whose works he had exhibited at 291. More than five hundred of the prints came from only thirty-seven photographers, including Steichen, Coburn, Seeley, White, F. Holland Day, and Stieglitz himself.\n\nIn the January 1911 edition of \"Camera Work\", Stieglitz reprinted a review of the Buffalo show with disparaging words about White and Käsebier's photos. White never forgave Stieglitz. He started his own school of photography, and Käsebier and White co-founded the \"Pictorial Photographers of America\".\n\nThroughout 1911 and early 1912, Stieglitz organized ground-breaking modern art exhibits at 291 and promoted new art along with photography in the pages of \"Camera Work\". By the summer of 1912, he was so enthralled with non-photographic art that he published an issue of \"Camera Work\" (August 1912) devoted solely to Matisse and Picasso.\nIn late 1912, painters Walter Pach, Arthur B. Davies and Walt Kuhn organized a modern art show, and Stieglitz lent a few modern art pieces from 291 to the show. He also agreed to be listed as an honorary vice-president of the exhibition along with Claude Monet, Odilon Redon, Mabel Dodge and Isabella Stewart Gardner. In February 1913, the watershed Armory Show opened in New York, and soon modern art was a major topic of discussion throughout the city. He saw the popularity of the show as a vindication of the work that he had been sponsoring at 291 for the past five years. He mounted an exhibition of his own photographs at 291 to run at the same time as the Armory Show. He later wrote that allowing people to see both photographs and modern paintings at the same time \"afforded the best opportunity to the student and public for a clearer understanding of the place and purpose of the two media.\"\n\nIn January 1914, his closest friend and coworker Joseph Keiley died, which left him distraught for many weeks. He was also troubled by the outbreak of World War I for several reasons. He was concerned about the safety of family and friends in Germany. He needed to find a new printer for the photogravures for \"Camera Work\", which had been printed in Germany for many years. The war caused a significant downturn in the American economy and art became a luxury for many people. By the end of the year, Stieglitz was struggling to keep both 291 and \"Camera Work\" alive. He published the April issue of \"Camera Work\" in October, but it would be more than a year before he had the time and resources to publish the next issue.\n\nIn the meantime Stieglitz's friends de Zayas, Paul de Haviland, and Agnes Meyer convinced him that the solution to his problems was to take on a totally new project, something that would re-engage him in his interests. He published a new journal, called \"291\" after his gallery, that intended to be the epitome of avant-garde culture. While it was an aesthetic triumph, it was a financial disaster and ceased publication after twelve issues.\n\nDuring this period, Stieglitz became increasingly intrigued with a more modern visual aesthetics for photography. He became aware of what was going on in avant-garde painting and sculpture and found that pictorialism no longer represented the future – it was the past. He was influenced in part by painter Charles Sheeler and by photographer Paul Strand. In 1915, Strand, who had been coming to see shows at 291 for many years, introduced Stieglitz to a new photographic vision that was embodied by the bold lines of everyday forms. Stieglitz was one of the first to see the beauty and grace of Strand's style, and he gave Strand a major exhibit at 291. He also devoted almost the entire last issue of \"Camera Work\" to his photographs.\n\nIn January 1916, Stieglitz was shown a portfolio of charcoal drawings by a young artist named Georgia O'Keeffe. Stieglitz was so taken by her art that without meeting O'Keeffe or even getting her permission to show her works he made plans to exhibit her work at 291. The first that O'Keeffe heard about any of this was from another friend who saw her drawings in the gallery in late May of that year. She finally met Stieglitz after going to 291 and chastising him for showing her work without her permission.\n\nSoon thereafter O'Keeffe met Paul Strand, and for several months she and Strand exchanged increasingly romantic letters. When Strand told his friend Stieglitz about his new yearning, Stieglitz responded by telling Strand about his own infatuation with O'Keeffe. Gradually Strand's interest waned, and Stieglitz's escalated. By the summer of 1917 he and O'Keeffe were writing each other \"their most private and complicated thoughts\", and it was clear that something very intense was developing.\n\nThe year 1917 marked the end of an era in Stieglitz's life and the beginning of another. In part because of changing aesthetics, the changing times brought on by the war and because of his growing relationship with O'Keeffe, he no longer had the interest or the resources to continue what he had been doing for the past decade. Within the period of a few months, he disbanded what was left of the Photo-Secession, ceased publishing \"Camera Work\" and closed the doors of 291. It was also clear to him that his marriage to Emmy was over. He had finally found \"his twin\", and nothing would stand in his way of the relationship he had wanted all of his life.\n\nIn early June 1918, O'Keeffe moved to New York from Texas after Stieglitz promised he would provide her with a quiet studio where she could paint. Within a month he took the first of many nude photographs of her at his family's apartment while his wife Emmy was away, but she returned while their session was still in progress. She had suspected something was going on between the two for a while, and told him to stop seeing her or get out. Stieglitz left and immediately found a place in the city where he and O'Keeffe could live together. They slept separately for more than two weeks. By the end of July they were in the same bed together, and by mid-August when they visited Oaklawn \"they were like two teenagers in love. Several times a day they would run up the stairs to their bedroom, so eager to make love that they would start taking their clothes off as they ran.\"\n\nOnce he was out of their apartment Emmy had a change of heart. Due to the legal delays caused by Emmy and her brothers, it would be six more years before the divorce was finalized. During this period Stieglitz and O'Keeffe continued to live together, although she would go off on her own from time to time to create art. Stieglitz used their times apart to concentrate on his photography and promotion of modern art.\n\nO'Keeffe was the muse Stieglitz had always wanted. He photographed O'Keeffe obsessively between 1918 and 1925 in what was the most prolific period in his entire life. During this period he produced more than 350 mounted prints of O'Keeffe that portrayed a wide range of her character, moods and beauty. He shot many close-up studies of parts of her body, especially her hands either isolated by themselves or near her face or hair. O'Keeffe biographer Roxanna Robinson states that her \"personality was crucial to these photographs; it was this, as much as her body, that Stieglitz was recording.\"\n\nIn 1920, Stieglitz was invited by Mitchell Kennerly of the Anderson Galleries in New York to put together a major exhibition of his photographs. In early 1921, he hung the first one-man exhibit of his photographs since 1913. Of the 146 prints he put on view, only 17 had been seen before. Forty-six were of O'Keeffe, including many nudes, but she was not identified as the model on any of the prints. It was in the catalog for this show that Stieglitz made his famous declaration: \"I was born in Hoboken. I am an American. Photography is my passion. The search for Truth my obsession.\" What is less known is that he conditioned this statement by following it with these words:\n\nPLEASE NOTE: In the above STATEMENT the following, fast becoming \"obsolete\", terms do not appear: ART, SCIENCE, BEAUTY, RELIGION, every ISM, ABSTRACTION, FORM, PLASTICITY, OBJECTIVITY, SUBJECTIVITY, OLD MASTERS, MODERN ART, PSYCHOANALYSIS, AESTHETICS, PICTORIAL PHOTOGRAPHY, DEMOCRACY, CEZANNE, \"291\", PROHIBITION. The term TRUTH did creep in but it may be kicked out by any one.\n\nIn 1922, Stieglitz organized a large show of John Marin's paintings and etching at the Anderson Galleries, followed by a huge auction of nearly two hundred paintings by more than forty American artists, including O'Keeffe. Energized by this activity, he began one of his most creative and unusual undertakings – photographing a series of cloud studies simply for their form and beauty. He said:\n\nI wanted to photograph clouds to find out what I had learned in forty years about photography. Through clouds to put down my philosophy of life – to show that (the success of) my photographs (was) not due to subject matter – not to special trees or faces, or interiors, to special privileges – clouds were there for everyone…\n\nBy late summer he had created a series he called \"Music – A Sequence of Ten Cloud Photographs\". Over the next twelve years he would take hundreds of photographs of clouds without any reference points of location or direction. These are generally recognized as the first intentionally abstract photographs, and they remain some of his most powerful photographs. He would come refer to these photographs as \"Equivalents\".\n\nStieglitz's mother Hedwig died in November 1922, and as he did with his father he buried his grief in his work. He spent time with Paul Strand and his new wife Rebecca (Beck), reviewed the work of another newcomer named Edward Weston and began organizing a new show of O'Keeffe's work. Her show opened in early 1923, and Stieglitz spent much of the spring marketing her work. Eventually twenty of her paintings sold for more than $3,000. In the summer, O'Keeffe once again took off for the seclusion of the Southwest, and for a while Stieglitz was alone with Beck Strand at Lake George. He took a series of nude photos of her, and soon he became infatuated with her. They had a brief physical affair before O'Keeffe returned in the fall. O'Keeffe could tell what had happened, but since she did not see Stieglitz's new lover as a serious threat to their relationship she let things pass. Six years later she would have her own affair with Beck Strand in New Mexico.\n\nIn 1924, Stieglitz's divorce was finally approved by a judge, and within four months he and O'Keeffe married in a small, private ceremony at Marin's house. They went home without a reception or honeymoon. O'Keeffe said later that they married in order to help soothe the troubles of Stieglitz's daughter Kitty, who at that time was being treated in a sanatorium for depression and hallucinations. For the rest of their lives together, their relationship was, as biographer Benita Eisler characterized it, \"a collusion ... a system of deals and trade-offs, tacitly agreed to and carried out, for the most part, without the exchange of a word. Preferring avoidance to confrontation on most issues, O'Keeffe was the principal agent of collusion in their union.\"\n\nIn the coming years O'Keeffe would spend much of her time painting in New Mexico, while Stieglitz rarely left New York except for summers at Lake George. O'Keeffe later said \"Stieglitz was a hypochondriac and couldn't be more than 50 miles from a doctor.\"\n\nAt the end of 1924, Stieglitz donated 27 photographs to the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. It was the first time a major museum included photographs in its permanent collection. In the same year he was awarded the Royal Photographic Society's Progress Medal for advancing photography and received an Honorary Fellowship of the Society\n\nIn 1925, Stieglitz was invited by the Anderson Galleries to put together one of the largest exhibitions of American art, entitled \"Alfred Stieglitz Presents Seven Americans: 159 Paintings, Photographs, and Things, Recent and Never Before Publicly Shown by Arthur G. Dove, Marsden Hartley, John Marin, Charles Demuth, Paul Strand, Georgia O'Keeffe and Alfred Stieglitz.\" Only one small painting by O'Keeffe was sold during the three-week exhibit.\n\nSoon after, Stieglitz was offered the continued use of one of the rooms at the Anderson Galleries, which he used for a series of exhibitions by some of the same artists in the Seven Americans show. In December 1925, he opened his new gallery, publicly called \"The Intimate Gallery\" but referred to by Stieglitz as \"The Room\" because of its small size. Over the next four years he put together sixteen shows of works by Marin, Dove, Hartley, O'Keeffe and Strand, along with individual exhibits by Gaston Lachaise, Oscar Bluemner and Francis Picabia. During this time Stieglitz cultivated a relationship with influential new art collector Duncan Phillips, who purchased several works through The Intimate Gallery.\n\nIn 1927, Stieglitz became infatuated with the 22 year-old Dorothy Norman, who then volunteered at the gallery and they fell in love. Norman was married and had a child, but she came to the gallery almost every day.\n\nO'Keeffe accepted an offer by Mabel Dodge to come to New Mexico for the summer. Stieglitz took advantage of her time away to begin photographing Norman, and he began teaching her the technical aspects of printing as well. When Norman had a second child she missed only about two months before returning to the gallery on a regular basis. Within a short time they became lovers, but even after their physical affair diminished a few years later, they continued to work together whenever O'Keeffe was not around until Stieglitz died in 1946.\n\nIn early 1929, Stieglitz was told that the building that housed the Room would be torn down later in the year. After a last show of Demuth's work in May, he retreated to Lake George for the summer, exhausted and depressed. The Strands raised nearly sixteen thousand dollars for a new gallery for Stieglitz, who reacted harshly, saying it was time for \"young ones\" to do some of the work he had been shouldering for so many years. Although Stieglitz eventually apologized and accepted their generosity, the incident marked the beginning of the end of their long and close relationship.\n\nIn the late fall, Stieglitz returned to New York. On December 15, two weeks after his sixty-fifth birthday, he opened, \"An American Place\", the largest gallery he had ever managed. It had the first darkroom he had in the city. Previously he had borrowed other darkrooms or worked only when he was at Lake George. He continued showing group or individual shows of his friends Marin, Demuth, Hartley, Dove and Strand for the next sixteen years. O'Keeffe received at least one major exhibition each year. He fiercely controlled access to her works and incessantly promoted her even when critics gave her less than favorable reviews. Often during this time they would only see each other during the summer, when it was too hot in her New Mexico home, but they wrote to each other almost weekly with the fervor of soul mates.\n\nIn 1932, Stieglitz mounted a forty-year retrospective of 127 of his works at The Place. He included all of his most famous photographs, but he also purposely chose to include recent photos of O'Keeffe, who, because of her years in the Southwest sun, looked older than her forty-five years, next to portraits of his young lover Norman. It was one of the few times he acted spitefully to O'Keeffe in public, and it might have been as a result of their increasingly intense arguments in private about his control over her art.\n\nLater that year he mounted a show of O'Keeffe's works next to some amateurish paintings on glass by Becky Strand. He did not publish a catalog of the show, which the Strands took as an insult. Paul Strand never forgave Stieglitz. He said \"The day I walked into the Photo-Secession 291 [sic] in 1907 was a great moment in my life… but the day I walked out of An American Place in 1932 was not less good. It was fresh air and personal liberation from something that had become, for me at least, second-rate, corrupt and meaningless.\"\n\nIn 1936, Stieglitz returned briefly to his photographic roots by mounting one of the first exhibitions of photos by Ansel Adams in New York City. The show was successful and David McAlpin bought eight Adams photos. He also put on one of the first shows of Eliot Porter's work two years later. Stieglitz, considered the \"godfather of modern photography\", encouraged Todd Webb to develop his own style and immerse himself in the medium.\n\nThe next year the Cleveland Museum of Art mounted the first major exhibition of Stieglitz's work outside of his own galleries, but he worked himself into exhaustion making sure that each print was perfect. O'Keeffe spent most of the year in New Mexico.\n\nIn early 1938, Stieglitz suffered a serious heart attack, one of six coronary or angina attacks that would strike him over the next eight years, each of which left him increasingly weakened. During his absences, Dorothy Norman managed the gallery. O'Keeffe remained in her Southwest home from spring to fall of this period.\n\nIn the summer of 1946, Stieglitz suffered a fatal stroke and went into a coma. O'Keeffe returned to New York and found Dorothy Norman was in his hospital room. She left and O'Keeffe was with him when he died. According to his wishes, a simple funeral was attended by twenty of his closest friends and family members. Stieglitz was cremated, and, with his niece Elizabeth Davidson, O'Keeffe took his ashes to Lake George and \"put him where he could hear the water.\" The day after the funeral, O'Keeffe took control of An American Place.\n\nStieglitz produced more than 2,500 mounted photographs over his career. After his death, O'Keeffe assembled a set of what she considered the best of his photographs that he had personally mounted. In some cases she included slightly different versions of the same image, and these series are invaluable for their insights about Stieglitz's aesthetic composition. In 1949, she donated the first part of what she called the \"key set\" of 1,317 Stieglitz photographs to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC. In 1980, she added to the set another 325 photographs taken by Stieglitz of her, including many nudes. Now numbering 1,642 photographs, it is the largest, most complete collection of Stieglitz's work anywhere in the world. In 2002 the National Gallery published a two-volume, 1,012-page catalog that reproduced the complete key set along with detailed annotations about each photograph.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "546337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=546337", "title": "American Mushroom Institute", "text": "American Mushroom Institute\n\nThe American Mushroom Institute is the industry trade group for the U.S. mushroom industry.\n\nIn 2007 the Institute commissioned Chester County, Pa., author Bruce Mowday to compile a photographic history of the local industry. \"Chester County Mushroom Farming\" (Arcadia) was published in 2008. \n\n"}
{"id": "5042677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5042677", "title": "Ante Šupuk", "text": "Ante Šupuk\n\nAnte Šupuk (21 August 1838 – 11 May 1904) was a Croatian politician and entrepreneur who served as a mayor of Šibenik. In 1895 he built the Jaruga Hydroelectric Power Plant as one of the world's first hydroelectric power plants, and connected it to a lighting system using alternating current. It was the first of its kind in Dalmatia and Croatia.\n\nAnte Šupuk was a generally influential mayor of Šibenik, the first Croat mayor to be elected under universal suffrage in 1872. He held the office in three periods: 1873–1882, 1886–1892, and 1896–1903. During his tenure, the city built a number of features: a railroad connection (1877), waterworks (1879), a sewer system, and a new harbor, a new hospital building (1883).\n\nIn 1893, Šupuk and one Vjekoslav Meichsner started a business and obtained a license to use the waters of river Krka, and in 1894 they obtained permission to set up electrical power lines on municipal property in order to start lighting the streets with electric power. The construction of the Jaruga Hydroelectric Power Plant started in 1894 and lasted for 16 months. It had a two-phase generator that produced 0.6 MW of electric power. It was connected to the city with an long 3 kV power line, where it was transformed to 110 V. On August 28, 1895 the first electric street lights lit up in Šibenik. This achievement made Šibenik the third city in the world with alternating current-powered street lights. In 1904, Šupuk's company built a new power plant, Jaruga II, still operational today.\n"}
{"id": "7363065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7363065", "title": "BS 25999", "text": "BS 25999\n\nBS 25999 was BSI's standard in the field of Business Continuity Management (BCM). It was withdrawn in 2012 (part 2) and 2013 (part 1) following the publication of the international standards ISO 22301 - ″Societal Security — Business continuity management systems — Requirements″ and ISO 22313 - ″Societal Security — Business continuity management systems — Guidance″\n\nUpon its publication in 2007 BS 25999 replaced PAS 56, a Publicly Available Specification, published in 2003 on the same subject.\n\nBS 25999 was a Business Continuity Management (BCM) standard published by the British Standards Institution (BSI).\n\nIt had two parts;\n\n\nThe first part of BS 25999 (BS 25999-1:2006) was published by the British Standards Institution in December 2006. The second part of BS 25999 (BS 25999-2:2007) was published in November 2007.\n\nBS 25999-2 was withdrawn in November 2012 having been replaced by the International Standard, ISO 22301. BS 25999-1 was withdrawn in early 2013 having been replaced by ISO 22313.\n\nBoth parts of the standard contributed significantly to the international standards that succeeded then and to the development of other national and international standards (such as ASIS/BSI BCM.01:2010).\n\nThere are a number of similar worldwide standards:\n\nNorth America - Published by the National Fire Protection Association\nNFPA 1600: Standard on Disaster/Emergency Management and Business Continuity Programs.\n\nASIS/BSI BCM.01:2010 Business Continuity Management Systems: Requirements with Guidance for Use. Published in December 2010 and developed jointly between ASIS and BSI for North America\n\nAustralia - Published by Standards Australia\nHB 292-2006 : A practitioners guide to business continuity management\nHB 293-2006 : Executive guide to business continuity management\nAS/NZS 5050 : Business Continuity Managing disruption-related risk\n\nStandards Australia have published AS 5050:2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "14422163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14422163", "title": "Bisnow Media", "text": "Bisnow Media\n\nBisnow Media, also known as Bisnow, is a multi-platform digital media company that produces news and live events. Founded in 2005, Bisnow Media is owned by private equity firm Wicks Group and has offices in New York and Washington, D.C. with 75 full-time employees. Covering 27 metropolitan markets across the U.S., Canada and the U.K. with a subscriber base of over 600,000, Bisnow is one of the largest producers of commercial real estate news and events. Bisnow also organizes approximately 250 annual events attracting approximately 70,000 attendees. The company's publications have been described as similar to \"Business Insider\", covering topics such as real estate, technology and businesses with a slight irreverence similar to BuzzFeed.\n\nThe company was founded in 2005 by Mark Bisnow, a DC lawyer, business executive, and radio talk show host, who had become known for irreverent \"Bisnow on Business\" radio spots on the local all-news station and active involvement in local business organizations and philanthropies. Bisnow wanted to take advantage of the new economics and reading habits of the Internet age to provide timelier, lighter, and more personality-focused news fare than traditionally available, and deliver it to niche business audiences.\n\nElliot Bisnow, Mark Bisnow's son, helped the company redesign the format of its newsletters and as a result he later became a member of the board. Mark Bisnow was named Chairman when he turned over the CEO position to Ryan Begelman, previously the COO of Bisnow and also co-founder of Summit Series. Will Friend was named CEO of Bisnow in January 2015.\n\nIn 2012, Bisnow launched \"Escape\", a brand of recurring events that gather top commercial real estate owners, developers, and financiers for multi-day retreats.\n\nBy the end of 2012, Bisnow generated $11 million in revenue amounting to a 70 percent compounded three-year growth rate. The following year, Bisnow partnered with Peter Linneman, the Wharton School real estate program founder, to launch a video education series. By the end of 2013, the company was operating in 22 markets and producing 31 newsletters. Bisnow has been included on Crain's New York Business' list of the fastest growing companies in New York for 2013 and 2014.\n\nIn May 2016, Bisnow Media was acquired by Wicks Group, a private equity firm based in New York, for an estimated $50 million.\n\nBisnow produces industry-specific e-newsletters highlighting news and information primarily for commercial real estate professionals. The company distributes its e-newsletters to over 600,000 subscribers.\n\nThe company also produces business-related events and retreats. These invite-only programs include activities from real estate forums to interpersonal bonding activities such as meditation, martial arts, and jet pack excursions. The events have also featured experts on topics such as the arts, philanthropy, relationships, technology, and futurism. Additionally, Bisnow offers educational videos with Peter Linneman.\n\n"}
{"id": "543125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543125", "title": "Brake (sheet metal bending)", "text": "Brake (sheet metal bending)\n\nA brake is a metalworking machine that allows the bending of sheet metal. A cornice brake only allows for simple bends and creases, while a box-and-pan brake also allows one to form box and pan shapes. It is also known as a bending machine or bending brake or in Britain as a sheet metal folder or just a folder.\n\nThe brake consists of a flat surface onto which the material is placed, and a clamping bar which will come down and hold the material firmly during the bend. This clamping action may be manual, automatic or operated using a foot pedal. The front, gate-like, plate of the machine is hinged and may be lifted, forcing the material extended over a straight edge to bend to follow the plate. \n\nThe bends can be to any angle up to a practical limit of about 120 degrees, somewhat more in the case of a bar folder. If the area to be bent is narrow enough, a sharper bend (e.g., for a hem) can be made by inserting the bend under the clamping bar and lowering it.\n\nIn a box-and-pan brake (also known as a finger brake), the clamping bar includes several removable blocks, which may be removed and rearranged to permit bending of restricted areas of a piece of sheet metal or of already partially formed pieces.\n\nAfter bending, a box or pan form is then completed by screw, solder, weld, rivet, or other metal fixing process.\n\nThis is a simplified brake, usually much smaller than cornice or box-and-pan brakes. Typically, a single handle both clamps the workpiece and makes the bend, in a single motion, but the depth is usually much less than what a cornice or box-and-pan brake can handle.\n\nThis is a more complex tool that forms predetermined bends by clamping the workpiece between a matching punch and die.\n\nBrakes come in sizes suitable for light aluminum or brass for small boxes and operated by hand, up to industrial sized and counterweighted hand operated or hydraulic machines suitable for large sheets of steel.\n"}
{"id": "44600460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44600460", "title": "Carlos Cascos", "text": "Carlos Cascos\n\nCarlos Humberto Cascos (born September 18, 1952) is an American Certified Public Accountant and politician who was the 110th Secretary of State of Texas. He was appointed by his fellow Republican, Governor Greg Abbott, and was confirmed by the Texas State Senate on February 18, 2015.\n\nCascos was born in the city of Matamoros in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas. He emigrated to the United States as a child and became a permanent resident and citizen during adolescence. Cascos studied at the University of Texas at Austin. He and his wife, Aurora Candida G. Cascos (born 1953), have two daughters, Andrea and Cassandra.\n\nHe is also currently the CPA at the Brownsville law firms of Pattillo, Brown & Hill and John T. Floyd.\n\nCascos was elected county judge of Cameron County in far South Texas in November 2006, when he unseated the 12-year incumbent, Gilberto Hinojosa, who in 2012 became the current Texas Democratic state party chairman. In tapping Cascos for Secretary of State, Abbott said that Cascos has \"proven leadership experience. [He is] someone who understands how government works, someone who can cultivate strong bonds along the border as well as someone who can advance Texas' interests both at home and abroad.\" Abbott added, \"He is a person I have known for years and whose judgment I trust.\".\n\nAbbott announced Cascos's selection on November 11, 2014, one week after Abbott's own victory over Wendy R. Davis for governor and Cascos's companion triumph for a third term as the county judge of Cameron County in far South Texas. Abbott polled 42 percent of the vote in traditionally Democratic Cameron County. Cascos defeated the Democrat Joe Rivera, the outgoing Cameron County clerk. Cascos will succeed Nandita Berry, the eighth person to hold the position of secretary of state since 2000 under the outgoing administration of Governor Rick Perry. Berry will step down after a full year in office to return to private life in Houston.\n\nCascos said that as secretary of state he would develop a comprehensive water plan and represent Texas in consultations with Mexico regarding treaties impacting the use of the Rio Grande. He also plans to seek a role for American companies in the development of an ongoing energy boom in northern Mexico.\n\nIn 2004, Governor Perry appointed Cascos to the Texas Public Safety Commission. After he became county judge, Perry named Cascos as the presiding officer of the Texas Border Security Council.\n"}
{"id": "39892342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39892342", "title": "Carlos Solchaga Catalán", "text": "Carlos Solchaga Catalán\n\nCarlos Solchaga Catalán (born 1944) is a Spanish economist, businessman and politician, who served in different capacities at various Spanish cabinets.\n\nSolchaga was born in Tafalla in 1944. He holds a bachelor's degree in economics and business studies which he obtained from Madrid’s Complutense University in 1966. He received a master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1971.\n\nSolchaga began his career at the Bank of Spain. He was the economic studies manager and advisor at Banco de Vizcaya from 1976 to 1979. Then he served as a minister for trade of the Basque general council of Spain from 1979 to 1980. He was the member of the Spanish Parliament from 1980 to 1995, representing Navarre Province, being part of the Socialist Party. He was one of the party officials who developed neo-liberal economic program and was among right-wing leaders of the party.\n\nHis first ministerial post was the minister for industry and energy, which he held from 1982 to 1985 in the first cabinet of Felipe Gonzalez Marquez. In a reshuffle of July 1985, Solchaga was appointed economy and finance minister to the cabinet again led by Prime Minister Gonzalez. He replaced Miguel Boyer in the post.\n\nSolchaga resigned from office in July 1993 due to the scandal surrounded the activities of Mariano Rubio, the then governor of the Bank of Spain. The scandal is known as the Ibercorp case. Pedro Solbes replaced him as finance minister. Solchaga was named as the party's parliamentary leader in July 1993 after leaving office. However, following this period he was gradually marginalized from decision-making mechanism within the party and in 1994, he left the party.\n\nSolchaga was also appointed chairman of the interim committee of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in 1991. His term ended in September 1993 and the then finance minister of Belgium, Philippe Maystadt, succeeded him as chairman of the committee.\n\nNext Solchaga began to work in private sector. He has been the international consultant of the Solchaga and Recio Asociados since 1999. He is also the chairman of the Euroamerica Foundation and the vice-chairman of the Reina Sofia National Museum. He is on the board of several institutions, including PRISA and Renta Corporación.\n\nWhen they were in office both Solchaga and his predecessor Miguel Boyer implemented economic policies based the orthodox liberal ideas, and the social outcomes of these policies were largely neglected. Solchaga continued Boyer's moderation and orthodox economy approach. It was partly because they did not fit into the socialist mould the government projected. Their priority was to reduce inflation using steps to control the money supply, which reinforced the high levels of interest and a strong currency. In addition, like Boyer he objected the approach and views of Alfonso Guerra, then deputy prime minister.\n"}
{"id": "41479584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41479584", "title": "Cost auditing", "text": "Cost auditing\n\nCost Audit represents the verification of cost accounts and check on the adherence to cost accounting plan. Cost Audit ascertain the accuracy of cost accounting records to ensure that they are in conformity with Cost Accounting principles, plans, procedures and objective. Cost Audit comprises following;\n\n\n\n\nBasic qualification for a cost auditor is the prescribed examinations and practices by the professional & Regulatory body for Cost & Management Accountancy of the country or in case a person is the member of other professional bodies, exemption should be allowed to him/her under the mutual recognition agreements (MRAs) to become a cost auditor.\n\nCost audit comprises following three steps;\n\nComplete audit\nPartial audit\nManagement audit\nDetailed audit\n\n"}
{"id": "690213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690213", "title": "D'Lo Brown", "text": "D'Lo Brown\n\nAccie Julius Conner (born October 22, 1970) better known by his ring name D'Lo Brown (also formatted as D-Lo Brown), is an American semi-retired professional wrestler.\n\nBrown is well known for his time with the World Wrestling Federation between 1997 and 2003 and also in 2008. There, he held the WWF Intercontinental Championship once and the WWF European Championship four times. He is also known for his appearances in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, where he held the NWA World Tag Team Championship, Ring of Honor and in Japan with the promotions All Japan Pro Wrestling and Pro Wrestling Noah. He also was the longest active member of the Nation of Domination.\n\nThe name \"D'Lo Brown\" came as a reference to Connor's high school friend Darren Lewis (\"D. Lewis Lo\", Connor called him), who died of cancer. Connor asked Lewis' mother if he could use the name as a tribute to her son.\n\nConnor began his wrestling career in New Jersey as \"Ace the Animal\". He then wrestled Earthquake in the WWF in 1994 under his given name as a jobber. This led to his first widely known accomplishment in Smoky Mountain Wrestling, as he became the head of security for The Gangstas. When the Gangstas left SMW in 1995, he signed a deal with the WWF and was sent to the Heartland Wrestling Association for more training while also continuing to make more appearances as a jobber on WWF television. D'Lo also spent most of 1996 wrestling in Puerto Rico for the World Wrestling Council .\n\nConnor made his official WWF debut in 1997 as a member of Faarooq's Nation of Domination heel stable, debuting as one of several non-descript people in suits that accompanied the group to the ring. During this time, his most notable moment was when Ahmed Johnson slammed him onto the roof of a car during Shotgun Saturday Night. His first televised match as a member of the Nation was on the April 26, 1997 episode of Shotgun Saturday Night, as he, Crush, and Savio Vega defeated Aldo Montoya, Steve Corino, and Freddie Joe Floyd. On May 26, 1997 he had his first match on Monday Night Raw (which was called Raw Is War at the time), defeating Bob \"The Spark Plugg\" Holly. After the King of the Ring 1997, Faarooq fired the rest of the Nation's members, except for D-Lo, who was later joined by Ahmed Johnson (later replaced by Rocky Maivia), Kama Mustafa, and Mark Henry. In early 1998, the group turned on Faarooq, allowing Maivia, now going by the name \"The Rock\", to assume leadership. During this period Kama also changed his name to \"The Godfather\" and began portraying a pimp character. D'Lo and Henry eventually turned on both Rock and Godfather separately, moving into a feud with the Rock before finally branching out as a moderately successful tag team, later turning face along the way. Prior to the face turn, Brown had started wrestling with a chest protector, supposedly for a torn pectoral muscle sustained in a match against Dan \"The Beast\" Severn. Instead, he used the chest protector to his advantage, making his finishing move, the \"Lo Down\", more effective.\n\nIn 1998, he feuded with X-Pac over the WWF European Championship. His career peaked when he held the European and Intercontinental Championships simultaneously during a feud with Jeff Jarrett and Mark Henry. This feat has only been duplicated by Jeff Jarrett, Kurt Angle, and Rob Van Dam, all of whom became world champions in some form, later in their careers.\nBrown was involved in inadvertently ending the career of Droz on October 5, 1999 when a running powerbomb was botched due to Droz' baggy shirt. The match was filmed for the October 7 edition of \"SmackDown!\", but was never aired. Droz suffered a severe neck injury, rendering him a quadriplegic. During an interview with Title Match Wrestling, D'Lo Brown dispelled a popular rumor that a fan had thrown an object into the ring which caused him to slip and badly injure Darren Drozdov. D'Lo took responsibility for botching the move, stating that the accident could have happened to \"any\" wrestler he had been in the ring with that night. He also said the accident caused him to \"wrestle differently\" and to second guess every move he performed in the ring from that day forward. Drozdov has maintained that he does not blame Brown for his injuries and he believes that the incident was an accident.\n\nDuring the rest of the year and into some of the next, Brown became an ally of former fellow Nation member The Godfather, emulating his dress and walking motions. The teaming ended when Brown turned heel on the Godfather.\n\nBrown then formed a tag team in July 2000 with Chaz named \"Lo Down\". The team mostly wrestled on \"Sunday Night Heat\" and \"WWE Jakked / Metal\". Shortly after the team formed, Tiger Ali Singh joined the team to become their manager. The tag team then came dressed towards the ring in Sikh attire and took on a gimmick very similar to Tiger's. The team was removed from WWF TV in January 2001 after Singh was injured. According to Brown, it was the lowest point in his career. Chaz and Singh were later released by WWE while Brown stayed in WWE's developmental territory, OVW. Notably, Brown wrestled future World champion Batista in a losing effort. Brown also spent six months in Puerto Rico wrestling for the International Wrestling Association teaming with Glamour Boy Shane holding the IWA tag team titles.\n\nBrown returned to TV on the April 28, 2002 episode of \"Heat\", losing to Eddie Guerrero. For the rest of the year, Brown mostly wrestled on \"Heat\", did a little bit of commentary on the show, and even started a brief feud with Raven. In late 2002, Theodore Long retired as a WWE referee and managed D'Lo, who had complained about acts of racism during his matches. D'Lo started Long's group Thuggin' and Buggin' Enterprises which eventually turned into a group of African Americans who worked an angle in which they felt they were victims of racism and were being held down by the \"white man.\" With Long's managerial services, D'Lo Brown went undefeated for several weeks.\n\nBrown faced Booker T in a losing effort on the February 10, 2003 episode of \"Raw\". His involvement with Thuggin' and Buggin' Enterprises was brought to a close when footage was shown on the February 16 episode of \"Heat\" of Theodore Long kicking D'Lo Brown to the curb and introducing his replacement Rodney Mack. He was then released from his WWE contract on February 14, 2003.\n\nConnor, still under the D'Lo Brown name, Joined Total Nonstop Action Wrestling in March 2003. During his time in NWA TNA he teamed with AJ Styles on many occasions together even challenging for the NWA World Tag Team Championships but were unsuccessful. After the team split up Brown challenged Styles for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship but came up short on every occasion doing a best of 3 series.\n\nOn the March 19, 2003 edition of NWA-TNA, Brown teamed with Dusty Rhodes and Jeff Jarrett defeating Erik Watts, Brian Lawler and David Flair. On April 2, 2003, edition of NWA-TNA weekly pay-per view D'Lo Brown unsuccessfully challenged Jeff Jarrett for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship. On April 14, 2004, Brown and Gran Apolo won the NWA World Tag Team Championships defeating Kid Kash and Dallas, They lost the titles just seven days after winning them. D'Lo later left TNA in the summer of 2004.\n\nOn a September 2014 interview, Brown said there was a time in TNA during this time where the creative team wanted to radically change his character; on top of not feeling like he was a good fit with TNA, Brown felt that by wrestling in Japan, he could still wrestle there while being D'Lo Brown.\n\nBrown Joined All Japan Pro Wrestling, competing in regular tours with the Japanese company as a member of Roughly Obsess and Destroy (RO&D). During one of these tours on September 17, 2006, Brown betrayed RO&D to join the rival Voodoo Murders faction. Brown left All Japan in 2007 and rejoined RO&D in Pro Wrestling Noah.\n\nWhen not in Japan, Brown was regularly found touring the United Kingdom, as well as working for Irish Whip Wrestling in Ireland. In April 2005, Brown became one of the lead trainers of the ill-fated \"Celebrity Wrestling\" on ITV. This Saturday evening reality show saw celebrities learn wrestling and compete in challenge matches. After a few weeks the programme was to be cancelled, but was instead moved to Sunday mornings to finish its final episodes. During his time wrestling in England, he would face off in a series of matches against his \"Celebrity Wrestling\" opposition's trainer, Joe Legend.\n\nIn 2008, Brown began wrestling in a number of dark matches for WWE. On June 5, WWE announced that Brown had been signed to a contract, and he began working more dark matches for the company. He made his television return on the July 21, 2008 edition of \"Raw\", defeating Santino Marella. Following this, Brown's appearances on television became more sporadic, and on January 9, 2009, it was announced on WWE's official website that he had been released from his contract due to cost-cutting measures.\n\nBrown debuted for Ring of Honor during Proving Ground 09 weekend in February. He was defeated by Nigel McGuinness in an ROH World Championship match. He also wrestled at the ROH 7th Anniversary Show on March 21, 2009 in Manhattan, defeating Jay Briscoe. Brown also appeared on \"Ring of Honor Wrestling\" on HDNet. Varsity Pro Wrestling has also announced that Brown will be making his third appearance for the promotion on their February tour. Brown also made a surprise appearance in Chikara, where he filled in as a substitute for Iceberg of The Cold Front at the 2009 King of Trios tournament. Brown came up short in an ROH World Championship match at Take No Prisoners (2009). At ROH's Manahttan Mayhem III on June 13, Brown tapped out to Colt Cabana in a four-way match also involving Bryan Danielson and Claudio Castagnoli. On June 27 on an ROH show he was defeated by Colt Cabana.\n\nThroughout April and May 2009, Brown flew to Japan to take part in the 13-night Pro Wrestling Noah Global Tag League with his partner Buchanan. During the course of the event they won and lost three matches with one contest went to a draw giving them seven points placing them sixth of the eight teams. Outside of the tournament Brown was undefeated in six-man tag team competition, adding Keith Walker to the team, including a victory over Noah founder Mitsuharu Misawa in one of his last matches.\n\nOn the September 15, 2009 edition of \"Between The Ropes\", Brown announced that after his current tour with Ring of Honor, he would retire from in-ring action. Also on this edition of Between The Ropes, Brown announced he would become a semi-regular co-host when his TNA scheduling allowed him to be in studio.\n\nHe appeared for Pro Wrestling Syndicate on May 18, 2013 with D.O.C. and Knux.\n\nIn September 2009, Connor was re-signed by TNA as their lead agent. Additionally, D'Lo was in charge of talent development and acquisitions heading up the TNA Gut Check program.\n\nOn the March 7, 2013 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Brown attacked Kurt Angle and revealed himself as the Vice President of Aces & Eights, turning heel in the process. Three days later at Lockdown, Brown interfered in Angle's steel cage match against fellow Aces & Eights member Wes Brisco, costing Angle the match. Later that evening, the President of the Aces & Eights was revealed to be Bully Ray. Brown wrestled his first televised match in four years on the May 2 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", losing to Kurt Angle in an I Quit Match. As a result of his loss, Brown was demoted to a prospect the following week. On July 17, Brown announced his release from TNA.\n\nOn August 11, 2013, All Japan Pro Wrestling announced that Brown would be returning to the promotion the following month to take part in the 2013 Ōdō Tournament. Brown returned to the promotion on September 11 in a non-tournament tag team match, where he and Bambi Killer defeated Burning (Atsushi Aoki and Yoshinobu Kanemaru), with Brown pinning Kanemaru for the win. Three days later, Brown was eliminated by Kanemaru in his first round match in the Ōdō Tournament. For the rest of the tour, which lasted until September 23, Brown worked midcard tag team matches, suffering pinfall losses in most of them. On October 3, Brown was announced also for All Japan's next tour, which started October 12. Brown continued teaming regularly with Bambi Killer, which eventually led to the two forming a heel stable named DK (Dark Kingdom) under the leadership of Kenso on November 21.\n\nBrown formerly held a weekly class on Friday for \"Future Stars of Wrestling\" training center in Las Vegas.\n\nConner is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) graduating from the University of Maine. He and his wife Jennifer were married in 2001 and have two daughters, Bria (born in 2003) and Payton (born in 2009).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12688746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12688746", "title": "Donald Trump's Real Estate Tycoon", "text": "Donald Trump's Real Estate Tycoon\n\nDonald Trump's Real Estate Tycoon is a business simulation game developed by RedCap and published by Activision Value. It was released for Microsoft Windows on November 7, 2002. It was later published in Europe by Xplosiv on September 3, 2004. On October 20, 2004, Activision Value published a version of the game that was developed by Airborne Entertainment for J2ME and BREW-enabled mobile phones, as well as the N-Gage QD. It is named after American business magnate and politician Donald Trump, who also provided his voice for both versions of the game.\n\n\"Donald Trump's Real Estate Tycoon\" is a single-player video game. The player's goal is to beat Donald Trump by becoming the most influential business magnate. In the Windows version, the player must choose the best real estate location in one of five cities: Los Angeles, New York City, Atlantic City, London and Paris. The mobile version consists of only one city. Each city is viewed from an isometric perspective. Each of the five cities contain an office, which opens at 6:00 AM and closes at 10:00 PM. Because of this, the player will sometimes have to focus on other cities or wait.\n\nThe game features four different types of real estate: commercial, hotel, office, and residential. Each type of real estate comes in three different building sizes: small, medium, and large. Trump checks on the player's progress every six months in the game. If Trump is impressed with the player's progress, he will promote the player up an additional floor in his headquarters. The player's goal is to reach Trump on the top floor. Trump also offers advice and hints to the player throughout the game.\n\nA player may choose and purchase a piece of real estate. The price varies on its size or how long the game progresses. After the land is purchased, a building can be constructed on it.\n\nBefore construction, the style, quality, number of floors (up to 12) and building duration are to be selected. The better the quality of the building and the slower the construction time, the higher the cost. Each floor of the building can be made into three types of rooms: shops, offices or condos. Shops are the most expensive to build but can be marketed at a higher price. Offices generate rather small profits but are cheaper to construct.\n\nOnce a building is complete, the player can market the rooms in one of two ways: selling or leasing. Through selling, a complete payment is achieved instantly. In leasing, payments are received on a monthly basis.\n\nWhen short on budget, the player can borrow money from any of four banks. Loans are paid back automatically after an assigned number of months (the money the player has in hand will have some deduction for this matter). Therefore, sufficient amounts of profit have to be earned after borrowing.\n\nA building's quality deteriorates over time. When reusing them for commercial purpose, it is best to have them renovated. Through renovation, certain rooms can be changed into others. A change in the building's style and number of floors can only be achieved through demolition and reconstruction.\n\nIf the five city levels are passed, the player then faces a business competition with Trump. The object of the challenge is to go into business against Trump for a fixed number of years and then come out with higher profit, with the ultimate goal of driving him into bankruptcy. Unlike the previous missions, natural disasters and criminal activity occur which cause damage to property. The mobile version also allows the player to overtake Trump in the business industry.\n\nAvery Score of GameSpot gave the N-Gage QD version a 7.2 out of 10. Score called the game's auction sequences \"incredibly boring,\" and wrote that despite the game's \"unique branding, it is – at heart – a typical tycoon game that doesn't depart in any way from the conventions of the genre. While the game could have benefited from more-varied gameplay and smarter rival artificial intelligence, \"Real Estate Tycoon\"s strong presentation makes it an offering worthy of notice by fans of business simulations.\" Score praised the game's graphics, and wrote that while the game does not feature \"much of an audio component, what's there is decent. No background music accompanies the gameplay, sadly, but your biannual reviews by Mr. Trump feature a vocal clip from the man himself.\" Score concluded that while the game \"doesn't have any major flaws, it does fail to provide a varied experience. [...] After you're promoted 99 times, the game is over, but it's likely most gamers will tire of the game before they reach this level, as there's only one city in the game, and only so much you can do there. Doing nothing but buying low and selling high can hold one's interest for only so long.\"\n"}
{"id": "2576024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2576024", "title": "Entrepreneur (magazine)", "text": "Entrepreneur (magazine)\n\nEntrepreneur is an American magazine and website that carries news stories about entrepreneurship, small business management, and business. The magazine was first published in 1977. It is published by Entrepreneur Media Inc., headquartered in Irvine, California. The magazine publishes 10 issues annually, available through subscription and on newsstands. It is published under license internationally in Mexico, Russia, India, Hungary, the Philippines, South Africa, and others. Its editor-in-chief is Jason Feifer and its owner is Peter Shea.\n\nEvery year since 1979, \"Entrepreneur\" has published a list of its top 500 franchise companies based on a submission and review process. The magazine also published many other lists and awards.\n\nIn 1987, the magazine launched its website, Entrepreneur.com, which expanded to include features, contests and other publications and spin-offs. As of 2013, the website received more than 6 million unique visitors each month.\n\n\"Entrepreneur\" publishes the \"Entrepreneur StartUps\" magazine, available through subscription and on newsstands.\n\nThe magazine publishes a blog managed by a dedicated online staff. It is also published in digital editions through its mobile apps.\n\nIn 1999, the website YoungEntrepreneur.com was created as a spin-off of Entrepreneur.com. It is an online forum for young entrepreneurs.\n\nIn 2010, \"Entrepreneur\" launched the website SecondAct.com, which is targeted towards an older audience. When launched, the site used advertising as its sole source of revenue.\n\n\"Entrepreneur\" also publishes books through its Entrepreneur Press division. The company has a backlist of over 200 titles on business and entrepreneurship.\n\nOn April 2017, Reid Hoffman announced the launch of a new podcast called \"Masters of Scale\", hosted by Entrepreneur magazine. In each episode, Reid acts as the host, introducing a counterintuitive business theory and proving it out through the episode through a series of conversations with successful entrepreneurs. \"Masters of Scale\" is committed to a 50-50 gender balance. The official podcast launched on 5 May 2017 on the Entrepreneur Magazine website but is now hosted at mastersofscale.com. Episodes so far feature guests such as Mark Zuckerberg, Brian Chesky, Sheryl Sandberg, Stewart Butterfield, Diane Greene, John Elkann and Nancy Lublin.\n\nIn 2006, unusual web traffic measurements led to allegations that Entrepreneur.com used pop-ups to artificially boost its number of readers.\n\nThe company has been involved in many lawsuits regarding its trademark on the word 'entrepreneur', suing a wide variety of entities for using the word. The trademark has generally attracted criticism for being on a commonly used word for which there is no substitute, and the aggressiveness with which it is applied has been noted as somewhat ironic; \"Business Week\" asked \"why would the publisher of Entrepreneur magazine be bullying entrepreneurs?\"\n"}
{"id": "210541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210541", "title": "Executive order", "text": "Executive order\n\nIn the United States, an executive order is a directive issued by the President of the United States that manages operations of the federal government and has the force of law. The legal or constitutional basis for executive orders has multiple sources. Article Two of the United States Constitution gives the president broad executive and enforcement authority to use their discretion to determine how to enforce the law or to otherwise manage the resources and staff of the executive branch. The ability to make such orders is also based on express or implied Acts of Congress that delegate to the President some degree of discretionary power (delegated legislation).\n\nLike both legislative statutes and regulations promulgated by government agencies, executive orders are subject to judicial review and may be overturned if the orders lack support by statute or the Constitution. Major policy initiatives require approval by the legislative branch, but executive orders have significant influence over the internal affairs of government, deciding how and to what degree legislation will be enforced, dealing with emergencies, waging wars, and in general fine-tuning policy choices in the implementation of broad statutes. As the head of state and head of government of the United States, as well as Commander-in-Chief of the United States Armed Forces, only the President of the United States can issue an executive order.\n\nThe United States Constitution does not have a provision that explicitly permits the use of executive orders. The term \"executive power\" in Article II, Section 1, of the Constitution is not entirely clear. The term is mentioned as direction to \"take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed\" and is part of Article II, Section 3. The consequence of failing to comply could possibly be removal from office.<ref name=\"CIPP/G2008\"></ref>\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court has held that all executive orders from the President of the United States must be supported by the Constitution, whether from a clause granting specific power, or by Congress delegating such to the executive branch. Specifically, such orders must be rooted in Article II of the US Constitution or enacted by the congress in statutes. Attempts to block such orders have been successful at times when such orders exceeded the authority of the president or could be better handled through legislation.\n\nThe Office of the Federal Register is responsible for assigning the executive order a sequential number after receipt of the signed original from the White House and printing the text of the executive order in the daily \"Federal Register\" and eventually in Title 3 of the \"Code of Federal Regulations\".\n\nWith the exception of William Henry Harrison, all presidents, beginning with George Washington in 1789, have issued orders that in general terms can be described as executive orders. Initially, they took no set form. Consequently, such orders varied as to form and substance.\n\nThe first executive order was issued by George Washington on June 8, 1789, addressed to the heads of the federal departments, instructing them \"to impress me with a full, precise, and distinct general idea of the affairs of the United States\" in their fields.\n\nAccording to the political scientist Brian R. Dirck, the most famous executive order was by President Abraham Lincoln when he issued the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863. Dirck states:\n\nUntil the early 1900s, executive orders went mostly unannounced and undocumented and seen only by the agencies to which they were directed. That changed when the Department of State instituted a numbering scheme in 1907, starting retroactively with United States Executive Order 1 issued on October 20, 1862, by President Abraham Lincoln. The documents that later came to be known as \"executive orders\" apparently gained their name from this order issued by Lincoln, which was captioned \"Executive Order Establishing a Provisional Court in Louisiana\". This court functioned during the military occupation of Louisiana during the American Civil War, and Lincoln also used Executive Order 1 to appoint Charles A. Peabody as judge, and to designate the salaries of the court's officers.\n\nPresident Truman's Executive Order 10340 in \"Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer\", 343 US 579 (1952) placed all steel mills in the country under federal control. This was found invalid because it attempted to make law, rather than clarify or act to further a law put forth by the Congress or the Constitution. Presidents since this decision have generally been careful to cite which specific laws they are acting under when issuing new executive orders. Likewise, when presidents believe their authority for issuing an executive order stems from within the powers outlined in the Constitution, the order will simply proclaim \"under the authority vested in me by the Constitution\" instead.\n\nWars have been fought upon executive order, including the 1999 Kosovo War during Bill Clinton's second term in office. However, all such wars have had authorizing resolutions from Congress. The extent to which the president may exercise military power independently of Congress and the scope of the War Powers Resolution remain unresolved constitutional issues, although all presidents since its passage have complied with the terms of the resolution while maintaining that they are not constitutionally required to do so.\n\nPresident Truman issued 907 executive orders, with 1,081 orders by Theodore Roosevelt, 1,203 orders by Calvin Coolidge, and 1,803 orders by Woodrow Wilson. Franklin D. Roosevelt has the distinction of making a record 3,522 executive orders.\n\nPrior to 1932, uncontested executive orders had determined such issues as national mourning on the death of a president, and the lowering of flags to half-staff. President Franklin Roosevelt issued the first of his 3,522 executive orders on March 6, 1933, declaring a bank holiday, forbidding banks to release gold coin or bullion. Executive Order 6102 forbade the hoarding of gold coin, bullion and gold certificates. A further executive order required all newly mined domestic gold be delivered to the Treasury.\n\nBy Executive Order 6581, the president created the Export-Import Bank of the United States. On March 7, 1934, he established the National Recovery Review Board (Executive Order 6632). On June 29, the president issued Executive Order 6763 \"under the authority vested in me by the Constitution\", thereby creating the National Labor Relations Board.\n\nIn 1934, while Charles Evans Hughes was Chief Justice of the United States (in the time period known as the Hughes Court), the Court found that the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) was unconstitutional. The president then issued Executive Order 7073 \"by virtue of the authority vested in me under the said Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935\", reestablishing the National Emergency Council to administer the functions of the NIRA in carrying out the provisions of the Emergency Relief Appropriations Act. On June 15, he issued Executive Order 7075, which terminated NIRA and replaced it with the Office of Administration of the National Recovery Administration.\n\nIn the years that followed, President Roosevelt replaced the outgoing judges with those more in line with his views, ultimately appointing Hugo Black, Stanley Reed, Felix Frankfurter, William O. Douglas, Frank Murphy, Robert H. Jackson and James F. Byrnes to the Court. Historically, only George Washington had equal or greater influence over Supreme Court appointments, choosing all of its original members. Justices Frankfurter, Douglas, Black, and Jackson dramatically checked presidential power by invalidating the executive order at issue in \"The Steel Seizure Case\" (i.e., ). In that case Roosevelt's successor, President Truman, had ordered private steel production facilities seized in support of the Korean War effort, but the Court held the executive order was not within the power granted to the President by the Constitution.\n\nLarge policy changes with wide-ranging effects have been implemented through executive order, including the racial integration of the armed forces under Harry Truman and the desegregation of public schools under Dwight D. Eisenhower.\n\nTwo extreme examples of an executive order are Franklin Roosevelt's Executive Order 6102 \"forbidding the hoarding of gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates within the continental United States\" and Executive Order 9066, which delegated military authority to remove any or all people in a military zone (used to target Japanese-Americans and German-Americans in certain regions). The order was then delegated to General John L. DeWitt, and subsequently paved the way for all Japanese-Americans on the West Coast to be sent to internment camps for the duration of World War II.\n\nPresident George W. Bush issued Executive Order 13233 in 2001, which restricted public access to the papers of former presidents. The order was criticized by the Society of American Archivists and other groups, who stated that it \"violates both the spirit and letter of existing U.S. law on access to presidential papers as clearly laid down in 44 USC 2201–07\", and adding that the order \"potentially threatens to undermine one of the very foundations of our nation\". President Barack Obama revoked Executive Order 13233 in January 2009.\n\nThe Heritage Foundation has accused presidents of abusing executive orders by using them to make laws without Congressional approval and moving existing laws away from their original mandates.\n\nIn 1935, the Supreme Court overturned five of President Franklin Roosevelt's executive orders (6199, 6204, 6256, 6284, 6855). , issued by President Bill Clinton in 1995, attempted to prevent the federal government from contracting with organizations that had strike-breakers on the payroll; a federal appeals court subsequently ruled that the order conflicted with the National Labor Relations Act, and invalidated the order.\n\nCongress has the power to overturn an executive order by passing legislation that invalidates it. Congress can also refuse to provide funding necessary to carry out certain policy measures contained with the order or to legitimize policy mechanisms. In the case of the former, the president retains the power to veto such a decision; however, the Congress may override a veto with a two-thirds majority to end an executive order. It has been argued that a congressional override of an executive order is a nearly impossible event, due to the supermajority vote required and the fact that such a vote leaves individual lawmakers vulnerable to political criticism.\n\nOn July 30, 2014, the Republican-led House of Representatives approved a resolution authorizing Speaker of the House John Boehner to sue President Barack Obama over claims that he exceeded his executive authority in changing a key provision of the Affordable Care Act (\"Obamacare\") on his own and over what Republicans claimed had been \"inadequate enforcement of the health care law\", which Republican lawmakers opposed. In particular, Republicans \"objected that the Obama administration delayed some parts of the law, particularly the mandate on employers who do not provide health care coverage\". The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on November 21, 2014.\n\nPart of President Donald Trump's executive order Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States, which temporarily banned entry to the US from citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries, including for permanent residents, was stayed by a federal court on January 28, 2017.\n\nExecutive orders issued by state governors are not the same as statutes passed by state legislatures, but do have the force of law in a similar way to the federal system. State executive orders are usually based on existing constitutional or statutory powers of the governor and do not require any action by the state legislature to take effect<ref name= https://www.colorado.gov/governor/executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://gov.georgia.gov/executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://www.governor.wa.gov/office-governor/official-actions/executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://www.flgov.com/all-executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://rules.utah.gov/executive-documents></ref>\n\nExecutive orders may, for example, demand budget cuts from state government when the state legislature is not in session, and economic conditions take a downturn, thereby decreasing tax revenue below what was forecast when the budget was approved. Depending on the state constitution, a governor may specify what percentage each government agency must reduce by, and may exempt those that are already particularly underfunded, or cannot put long-term expenses (such as capital expenditures) off until a later fiscal year. The governor may also call the legislature into special session.\n\nThere are also other uses for gubernatorial executive orders. In 2007, for example, George \"Sonny\" Perdue, governor of Georgia, issued an executive order for all of its state agencies to reduce water use during a major drought. This was also demanded of its counties' water systems, but it is unclear whether the order would have the force of law.\n\nAccording to political expert Phillip J. Cooper, a presidential proclamation \"states a condition, declares a law and requires obedience, recognizes an event or triggers the implementation of a law (by recognizing that the circumstances in law have been realized).\" Presidents define situations or conditions on situations that become legal or economic truth. These orders carry the same force of law as executive orders—the difference between the two is that executive orders are aimed at those inside government while proclamations are aimed at those outside government.\n\nThe administrative weight of these proclamations is upheld because they are often specifically authorized by congressional statute, making them \"delegated unilateral powers.\" Presidential proclamations are often dismissed as a practical presidential tool for policy making because of the perception of proclamations as largely ceremonial or symbolic in nature. However, the legal weight of presidential proclamations suggests their importance to presidential governance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39274132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39274132", "title": "Feinstein's/54 Below", "text": "Feinstein's/54 Below\n\nFeinstein's/54 Below is a cabaret and restaurant in New York City owned by Broadway producers Steve Baruch, Richard Frankel, Marc Routh and Tom Viertel. It has hosted shows by such performers as Patti LuPone, Ben Vereen, Marilyn Maye and Barbara Cook. It is located in the basement of Studio 54.\n\nFeinstein's/54 Below opened on June 3, 2012 as 54 Below. Its designers include architect Richard H. Lewis, set designer John Lee Beatty, lighting designer Ken Billington, and sound designer Peter Hylenski. Scott Wittman also serves as Creative Consultant. Jennifer Ashley Tepper serves as the Director of Programming at Feinstein's/54 Below.\n\nFeinstein's/54 Below features a variety of musical artists and styles, including musical theatre, opera, and jazz, the last of which was featured in a series co-produced with WBGO.\n\nIn September 2015, 54 Below announced a creative alliance with performer and singer, pianist, and music revivalist Michael Feinstein, becoming Feinstein's/54 Below.\n\n\nFeinstein's/54 Below was used in the setting of the Downton Abbey parody \"Downton Abbey the Musical\".\n\nIt was also featured in the third season of the webseries \"Submissions Only\".\n\nA partnership with Broadway Records has produced live albums of selected shows performed at Feinstein's/54 Below.\n"}
{"id": "35992981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35992981", "title": "Finance Watch", "text": "Finance Watch\n\nFinance Watch is a European non-governmental organization that conducts research and advocacy on financial regulation. Based in Brussels, the organization focuses on financial regulation in the European Union and its member states.\n\nFinance Watch was founded in 2011 by members of the European Parliament as a counterbalance to the financial lobby. Its mission is \"to strengthen the voice of society in the reform of financial regulation by conducting advocacy and presenting public interest arguments to lawmakers and the public as a counterweight to the private interest lobbying of the financial industry\".\n\nFinance Watch was founded on 30 June 2011 as a consequence of a petition initiated in June 2010 by 22 members of the European Parliament, including members of all major political groups (ALDE, EPP, Greens-EFA, GUE/NGL, and S&D). This call for action was signed by another 140 elected officials from across Europe, and led to an exploratory project funded by the initiators, which in turn resulted in the founding General Assembly on 30 June 2011. Ieke van den Burg, a former MEP, was appointed Chair of the Board of Directors and Thierry Philipponnat, a former banker and Amnesty International executive in France, became the Secretary General. In January 2017, Benoît Lallemand became Secretary General.\n\nThe organization's research team analyses financial regulation and formulates policy recommendations. Its views are then communicated to policymakers by its advocacy team, who also cooperate with member organizations who share the same views, and to the wider public by its communication team. \nExamples of dossiers that Finance Watch deals with are capital requirements for banks (the Basel III agreement), banking structure (the Liikanen Consultation), high-frequency trading, food and resource speculation, and protection of retail investors. Finance Watch also organizes conferences about financial regulation issues, where different stakeholders of the financial sector interact in public.\n\nFinance Watch is an international association under Belgian law (AISBL), and has two types of members: individuals and civil society organizations. The latter include consumer groups, trade unions, housing associations, environmental NGOs, development NGOs and others. Each member has an equal vote at the organization’s general assembly. To become a member, both individuals and civil society organizations need to prove to the organization’s Committee of Transparency and Independence that they are independent from the financial industry. Individual members also need to qualify for membership by showing they have relevant experience and expertise. The members convene at least once a year for a General Assembly. During the year, the General Assembly is represented by the Board of Directors. The Board comprises eight Directors including six elected by and from the General Assembly (four Member organisations and two individual Members) and two independent Directors (“external personalities”).\n\nMembers of the Finance Watch board of directors as of June 2017:\n\nBoard Directors from outside the Membership (“external personalities”):\n\nThe organization’s budget has as its main sources project funding from the European Union and grants from several charitable foundations: Adessium Foundation, Fondation pour le progrès de l’homme, , Better Markets, Open Society Initiative for Europe, as well as individual donations and members’ fees and contributions.\n\nThe declared mission of Finance Watch is “to strengthen the voice of society in the reform of financial regulation by conducting advocacy and presenting public interest arguments to lawmakers and the public as a counterweight to the private interest lobbying of the financial industry”.\n\nThe organization states it follows six principles in the pursuit of this mission:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216102", "title": "Genetically modified food", "text": "Genetically modified food\n\nGenetically modified foods (GM foods), also known as genetically engineered foods (GE foods), or bioengineered foods are foods produced from organisms that have had changes introduced into their DNA using the methods of genetic engineering. Genetic engineering techniques allow for the introduction of new traits as well as greater control over traits when compared to previous methods, such as selective breeding and mutation breeding.\n\nCommercial sale of genetically modified foods began in 1994, when Calgene first marketed its unsuccessful Flavr Savr delayed-ripening tomato. Most food modifications have primarily focused on cash crops in high demand by farmers such as soybean, corn, canola, and cotton. Genetically modified crops have been engineered for resistance to pathogens and herbicides and for better nutrient profiles. GM livestock have been developed, although, , none were on the market.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nHowever, there are ongoing public concerns related to food safety, regulation, labelling, environmental impact, research methods, and the fact that some GM seeds, along with all new plant varieties, are subject to plant breeders' rights owned by corporations.\n\nGenetically modified foods are foods produced from organisms that have had changes introduced into their DNA using the methods of genetic engineering as opposed to traditional cross breeding. In the U.S., the Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) favor the use of the term \"genetic engineering\" over \"genetic modification\" as being more precise; the USDA defines \"genetic modification\" to include \"genetic engineering or other more traditional methods\".\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, \"genetically modified organisms (GMOs) can be defined as organisms (i.e. plants, animals or microorganisms) in which the genetic material (DNA) has been altered in a way that does not occur naturally by mating and/or natural recombination. The technology is often called 'modern biotechnology' or 'gene technology', sometimes also 'recombinant DNA technology' or 'genetic engineering'. ... Foods produced from or using GM organisms are often referred to as GM foods.\"\n\nHuman-directed genetic manipulation of food began with the domestication of plants and animals through artificial selection at about 10,500 to 10,100 BC. The process of selective breeding, in which organisms with desired traits (and thus with the desired genes) are used to breed the next generation and organisms lacking the trait are not bred, is a precursor to the modern concept of genetic modification (GM). With the discovery of DNA in the early 1900s and various advancements in genetic techniques through the 1970s it became possible to directly alter the DNA and genes within food.\n\nThe first genetically modified plant was produced in 1983, using an antibiotic-resistant tobacco plant. Genetically modified microbial enzymes were the first application of genetically modified organisms in food production and were approved in 1988 by the US Food and Drug Administration. In the early 1990s, recombinant chymosin was approved for use in several countries. Cheese had typically been made using the enzyme complex rennet that had been extracted from cows' stomach lining. Scientists modified bacteria to produce chymosin, which was also able to clot milk, resulting in cheese curds.\n\nThe first genetically modified food approved for release was the Flavr Savr tomato in 1994. Developed by Calgene, it was engineered to have a longer shelf life by inserting an antisense gene that delayed ripening. China was the first country to commercialize a transgenic crop in 1993 with the introduction of virus-resistant tobacco. In 1995, \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" (Bt) Potato was approved for cultivation, making it the first pesticide producing crop to be approved in the US. Other genetically modified crops receiving marketing approval in 1995 were: canola with modified oil composition, Bt maize, cotton resistant to the herbicide bromoxynil, Bt cotton, glyphosate-tolerant soybeans, virus-resistant squash, and another delayed ripening tomato.\n\nWith the creation of golden rice in 2000, scientists had genetically modified food to increase its nutrient value for the first time.\n\nBy 2010, 29 countries had planted commercialized biotech crops and a further 31 countries had granted regulatory approval for transgenic crops to be imported. The US was the leading country in the production of GM foods in 2011, with twenty-five GM crops having received regulatory approval. In 2015, 92% of corn, 94% of soybeans, and 94% of cotton produced in the US were genetically modified strains.\n\nThe first genetically modified animal to be approved for food use was AquAdvantage salmon in 2015. The salmon were transformed with a growth hormone-regulating gene from a Pacific Chinook salmon and a promoter from an ocean pout enabling it to grow year-round instead of only during spring and summer.\n\nIn April 2016, a white button mushroom (\"Agaricus bisporus\") modified using the CRISPR technique received \"de facto\" approval in the United States, after the USDA said it would not have to go through the agency's regulatory process. The agency considers the mushroom exempt because the editing process did not involve the introduction of foreign DNA.\n\nThe most widely planted GMOs are designed to tolerate herbicides. By 2006 some weed populations had evolved to tolerate some of the same herbicides. Palmer amaranth is a weed that competes with cotton. A native of the southwestern US, it traveled east and was first found resistant to glyphosate in 2006, less than 10 years after GM cotton was introduced.\n\nGenetically engineered organisms are generated and tested in the laboratory for desired qualities. The most common modification is to add one or more genes to an organism's genome. Less commonly, genes are removed or their expression is increased or silenced or the number of copies of a gene is increased or decreased.\n\nOnce satisfactory strains are produced, the producer applies for regulatory approval to field-test them, called a \"field release\". Field-testing involves cultivating the plants on farm fields or growing animals in a controlled environment. If these field tests are successful, the producer applies for regulatory approval to grow and market the crop. Once approved, specimens (seeds, cuttings, breeding pairs, etc.) are cultivated and sold to farmers. The farmers cultivate and market the new strain. In some cases, the approval covers marketing but not cultivation.\n\nAccording to the USDA, the number of field releases for genetically engineered organisms has grown from four in 1985 to an average of about 800 per year. Cumulatively, more than 17,000 releases had been approved through September 2013.\n\nPapaya was genetically modified to resist the ringspot virus (PSRV). \"SunUp\" is a transgenic red-fleshed Sunset papaya cultivar that is homozygous for the coat protein gene PRSV; \"Rainbow\" is a yellow-fleshed F1 hybrid developed by crossing 'SunUp' and nontransgenic yellow-fleshed \"Kapoho\". \"The New York Times\" stated, \"in the early 1990s, Hawaii's papaya industry was facing disaster because of the deadly papaya ringspot virus. Its single-handed savior was a breed engineered to be resistant to the virus. Without it, the state's papaya industry would have collapsed. Today, 80% of Hawaiian papaya is genetically engineered, and there is still no conventional or organic method to control ringspot virus.\" The GM cultivar was approved in 1998. In China, a transgenic PRSV-resistant papaya was developed by South China Agricultural University and was first approved for commercial planting in 2006; as of 2012 95% of the papaya grown in Guangdong province and 40% of the papaya grown in Hainan province was genetically modified. In Hong Kong, where there is an exemption on growing and releasing any varieties of GM papaya, more than 80% of grown and imported papayas were transgenic.\n\nThe New Leaf potato, a GM food developed using naturally occurring bacteria found in the soil known as \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" (Bt), was made to provide in-plant protection from the yield-robbing Colorado potato beetle. The New Leaf potato, brought to market by Monsanto in the late 1990s, was developed for the fast food market. It was withdrawn in 2001 after retailers rejected it and food processors ran into export problems.\n\nAs of 2005, about 13% of the Zucchini (a form of squash) grown in the US was genetically modified to resist three viruses; that strain is also grown in Canada.\n\nIn 2011, BASF requested the European Food Safety Authority's approval for cultivation and marketing of its Fortuna potato as feed and food. The potato was made resistant to late blight by adding resistant genes blb1 and blb2 that originate from the Mexican wild potato Solanum bulbocastanum. In February 2013, BASF withdrew its application.\n\nIn 2013, the USDA approved the import of a GM pineapple that is pink in color and that \"overexpresses\" a gene derived from tangerines and suppress other genes, increasing production of lycopene. The plant's flowering cycle was changed to provide for more uniform growth and quality. The fruit \"does not have the ability to propagate and persist in the environment once they have been harvested\", according to USDA APHIS. According to Del Monte's submission, the pineapples are commercially grown in a \"monoculture\" that prevents seed production, as the plant's flowers aren't exposed to compatible pollen sources. Importation into Hawaii is banned for \"plant sanitation\" reasons.\n\nIn 2014, the USDA approved a genetically modified potato developed by J. R. Simplot Company that contained ten genetic modifications that prevent bruising and produce less acrylamide when fried. The modifications eliminate specific proteins from the potatoes, via RNA interference, rather than introducing novel proteins.\n\nIn February 2015 Arctic Apples were approved by the USDA, becoming the first genetically modified apple approved for sale in the US. Gene silencing is used to reduce the expression of polyphenol oxidase (PPO), thus preventing the fruit from browning.\n\nCorn used for food and ethanol has been genetically modified to tolerate various herbicides and to express a protein from \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" (Bt) that kills certain insects. About 90% of the corn grown in the US was genetically modified in 2010. In the US in 2015, 81% of corn acreage contained the Bt trait and 89% of corn acreage contained the glyphosate-tolerant trait. Corn can be processed into grits, meal and flour as an ingredient in pancakes, muffins, doughnuts, breadings and batters, as well as baby foods, meat products, cereals and some fermented products. Corn-based masa flour and masa dough are used in the production of taco shells, corn chips and tortillas.\n\nGenetically modified soybean has been modified to tolerate herbicides and produce healthier oils. In 2015, 94% of soybean acreage in the U.S. was genetically modified to be glyphosate-tolerant.\n\nAs of December 2017, genetically modified wheat has been evaluated in field trials, but has not been released commercially.\n\nStarch or amylum is a polysaccharide produced by all green plants as an energy store. Pure starch is a white, tasteless and odourless powder. It consists of two types of molecules: the linear and helical amylose and the branched amylopectin. Depending on the plant, starch generally contains 20 to 25% amylose and 75 to 80% amylopectin by weight.\n\nStarch can be further modified to create modified starch for specific purposes, including creation of many of the sugars in processed foods. They include:\n\nLecithin is a naturally occurring lipid. It can be found in egg yolks and oil-producing plants. it is an emulsifier and thus is used in many foods. Corn, soy and safflower oil are sources of lecithin, though the majority of lecithin commercially available is derived from soy. Sufficiently processed lecithin is often undetectable with standard testing practices. According to the FDA, no evidence shows or suggests hazard to the public when lecithin is used at common levels. Lecithin added to foods amounts to only 2 to 10 percent of the 1 to 5 g of phosphoglycerides consumed daily on average. Nonetheless, consumer concerns about GM food extend to such products. This concern led to policy and regulatory changes in Europe in 2000, when Regulation (EC) 50/2000 was passed which required labelling of food containing additives derived from GMOs, including lecithin. Because of the difficulty of detecting the origin of derivatives like lecithin with current testing practices, European regulations require those who wish to sell lecithin in Europe to employ a comprehensive system of Identity preservation (IP).\n\nThe US imports 10% of its sugar, while the remaining 90% is extracted from sugar beet and sugarcane. After deregulation in 2005, glyphosate-resistant sugar beet was extensively adopted in the United States. 95% of beet acres in the US were planted with glyphosate-resistant seed in 2011. GM sugar beets are approved for cultivation in the US, Canada and Japan; the vast majority are grown in the US. GM beets are approved for import and consumption in Australia, Canada, Colombia, EU, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Philippines, the Russian Federation and Singapore. Pulp from the refining process is used as animal feed. The sugar produced from GM sugar beets contains no DNA or protein – it is just sucrose that is chemically indistinguishable from sugar produced from non-GM sugar beets. Independent analyses conducted by internationally recognized laboratories found that sugar from Roundup Ready sugar beets is identical to the sugar from comparably grown conventional (non-Roundup Ready) sugar beets.\n\nMost vegetable oil used in the US is produced from GM crops canola, corn, cotton and soybeans. Vegetable oil is sold directly to consumers as cooking oil, shortening and margarine and is used in prepared foods. There is a vanishingly small amount of protein or DNA from the original crop in vegetable oil. Vegetable oil is made of triglycerides extracted from plants or seeds and then refined and may be further processed via hydrogenation to turn liquid oils into solids. The refining process removes all, or nearly all non-triglyceride ingredients. Medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) offer an alternative to conventional fats and oils. The length of a fatty acid influences its fat absorption during the digestive process. Fatty acids in the middle position on the glycerol molecules appear to be absorbed more easily and influence metabolism more than fatty acids on the end positions. Unlike ordinary fats, MCTs are metabolized like carbohydrates. They have exceptional oxidative stability, and prevent foods from turning rancid readily.\n\nLivestock and poultry are raised on animal feed, much of which is composed of the leftovers from processing crops, including GM crops. For example, approximately 43% of a canola seed is oil. What remains after oil extraction is a meal that becomes an ingredient in animal feed and contains canola protein. Likewise, the bulk of the soybean crop is grown for oil and meal. The high-protein defatted and toasted soy meal becomes livestock feed and dog food. 98% of the US soybean crop goes for livestock feed. In 2011, 49% of the US maize harvest was used for livestock feed (including the percentage of waste from distillers grains). \"Despite methods that are becoming more and more sensitive, tests have not yet been able to establish a difference in the meat, milk, or eggs of animals depending on the type of feed they are fed. It is impossible to tell if an animal was fed GM soy just by looking at the resulting meat, dairy, or egg products. The only way to verify the presence of GMOs in animal feed is to analyze the origin of the feed itself.\"\n\nA 2012 literature review of studies evaluating the effect of GM feed on the health of animals did not find evidence that animals were adversely affected, although small biological differences were occasionally found. The studies included in the review ranged from 90 days to two years, with several of the longer studies considering reproductive and intergenerational effects.\n\nEnzymes produced by genetically modified microorganisms are also integrated into animal feed to enhance availability of nutrients and overall digestion. These enzymes may also provide benefit to the gut microbiome of an animal, as well as hydrolyse antinutritional factors present in the feed.\n\nRennet is a mixture of enzymes used to coagulate milk into cheese. Originally it was available only from the fourth stomach of calves, and was scarce and expensive, or was available from microbial sources, which often produced unpleasant tastes. Genetic engineering made it possible to extract rennet-producing genes from animal stomachs and insert them into bacteria, fungi or yeasts to make them produce chymosin, the key enzyme. The modified microorganism is killed after fermentation. Chymosin is isolated from the fermentation broth, so that the Fermentation-Produced Chymosin (FPC) used by cheese producers has an amino acid sequence that is identical to bovine rennet. The majority of the applied chymosin is retained in the whey. Trace quantities of chymosin may remain in cheese.\n\nFPC was the first artificially produced enzyme to be approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. FPC products have been on the market since 1990 and as of 2015 had yet to be surpassed in commercial markets. In 1999, about 60% of US hard cheese was made with FPC. Its global market share approached 80%. By 2008, approximately 80% to 90% of commercially made cheeses in the US and Britain were made using FPC.\n\nIn some countries, recombinant (GM) bovine somatotropin (also called rBST, or bovine growth hormone or BGH) is approved for administration to increase milk production. rBST may be present in milk from rBST treated cows, but it is destroyed in the digestive system and even if directly injected into the human bloodstream, has no observable effect on humans. The FDA, World Health Organization, American Medical Association, American Dietetic Association and the National Institutes of Health have independently stated that dairy products and meat from rBST-treated cows are safe for human consumption. However, on 30 September 2010, the United States Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, analyzing submitted evidence, found a \"compositional difference\" between milk from rBGH-treated cows and milk from untreated cows. The court stated that milk from rBGH-treated cows has: increased levels of the hormone Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1); higher fat content and lower protein content when produced at certain points in the cow's lactation cycle; and more somatic cell counts, which may \"make the milk turn sour more quickly\".\n\nGenetically modified livestock are organisms from the group of cattle, sheep, pigs, goats, birds, horses and fish kept for human consumption, whose genetic material (DNA) has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. In some cases, the aim is to introduce a new trait to the animals which does not occur naturally in the species, i.e. transgenesis.\n\nA 2003 review published on behalf of Food Standards Australia New Zealand examined transgenic experimentation on terrestrial livestock species as well as aquatic species such as fish and shellfish. The review examined the molecular techniques used for experimentation as well as techniques for tracing the transgenes in animals and products as well as issues regarding transgene stability.\n\nSome mammals typically used for food production have been modified to produce non-food products, a practice sometimes called Pharming.\n\nA GM salmon, awaiting regulatory approval since 1997, was approved for human consumption by the American FDA in November 2015, to be raised in specific land-based hatcheries in Canada and Panama.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nOpponents claim that long-term health risks have not been adequately assessed and propose various combinations of additional testing, labeling or removal from the market. The advocacy group European Network of Scientists for Social and Environmental Responsibility (ENSSER), disputes the claim that \"science\" supports the safety of current GM foods, proposing that each GM food must be judged on case-by-case basis.\n\nThe legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation. Countries such as the United States, Canada, Lebanon and Egypt use \"substantial equivalence\" to determine if further testing is required, while many countries such as those in the European Union, Brazil and China only authorize GMO cultivation on a case-by-case basis. In the U.S. the FDA determined that GMO's are \"Generally Recognized as Safe\" (GRAS) and therefore do not require additional testing if the GMO product is substantially equivalent to the non-modified product. If new substances are found, further testing may be required to satisfy concerns over potential toxicity, allergenicity, possible gene transfer to humans or genetic outcrossing to other organisms.\n\nGovernment regulation of GMO development and release varies widely between countries. Marked differences separate GMO regulation in the U.S. and GMO regulation in the European Union. Regulation also varies depending on the intended product's use. For example, a crop not intended for food use is generally not reviewed by authorities responsible for food safety.\n\nIn the U.S., three government organizations regulate GMOs. The FDA checks the chemical composition of organisms for potential allergens. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) supervises field testing and monitors the distribution of GM seeds. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is responsible for monitoring pesticide usage, including plants modified to contain proteins toxic to insects. Like USDA, EPA also oversees field testing and the distribution of crops that have had contact with pesticides to ensure environmental safety. In 2015 the Obama administration announced that it would update the way the government regulated GM crops.\n\nIn 1992 FDA published \"Statement of Policy: Foods derived from New Plant Varieties\". This statement is a clarification of FDA's interpretation of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to foods produced from new plant varieties developed using recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (rDNA) technology. FDA encouraged developers to consult with the FDA regarding any bioengineered foods in development. The FDA says developers routinely do reach out for consultations. In 1996 FDA updated consultation procedures.\n\nThe StarLink corn recalls occurred in the autumn of 2000, when over 300 food products were found to contain a genetically modified corn that had not been approved for human consumption. It was the first-ever recall of a genetically modified food.\n\nAs of 2015, 64 countries require labeling of GMO products in the marketplace.\n\nUS and Canadian national policy is to require a label only given significant composition differences or documented health impacts, although some individual US states (Vermont, Connecticut and Maine) enacted laws requiring them. In July 2016, Public Law 114-214 was enacted to regulate labeling of GMO food on a national basis.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the labeling requirement depends on the relative quantity of GMO in the product. A study that investigated voluntary labeling in South Africa found that 31% of products labeled as GMO-free had a GM content above 1.0%.\n\nIn the European Union all food (including processed food) or feed that contains greater than 0.9% GMOs must be labelled.\n\nTesting on GMOs in food and feed is routinely done using molecular techniques such as PCR and bioinformatics.\n\nIn a January 2010 paper, the extraction and detection of DNA along a complete industrial soybean oil processing chain was described to monitor the presence of Roundup Ready (RR) soybean: \"The amplification of soybean lectin gene by end-point polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was successfully achieved in all the steps of extraction and refining processes, until the fully refined soybean oil. The amplification of RR soybean by PCR assays using event-specific primers was also achieved for all the extraction and refining steps, except for the intermediate steps of refining (neutralisation, washing and bleaching) possibly due to sample instability. The real-time PCR assays using specific probes confirmed all the results and proved that it is possible to detect and quantify genetically modified organisms in the fully refined soybean oil. To our knowledge, this has never been reported before and represents an important accomplishment regarding the traceability of genetically modified organisms in refined oils.\"\n\nAccording to Thomas Redick, detection and prevention of cross-pollination is possible through the suggestions offered by the Farm Service Agency (FSA) and Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). Suggestions include educating farmers on the importance of coexistence, providing farmers with tools and incentives to promote coexistence, conduct research to understand and monitor gene flow, provide assurance of quality and diversity in crops, provide compensation for actual economic losses for farmers.\n\nThe genetically modified foods controversy consists of a set of disputes over the use of food made from genetically modified crops. The disputes involve consumers, farmers, biotechnology companies, governmental regulators, non-governmental organizations, environmental and political activists and scientists. The major disagreements include whether GM foods can be safely consumed, harm the environment and/or are adequately tested and regulated. The objectivity of scientific research and publications has been challenged. Farming-related disputes include the use and impact of pesticides, seed production and use, side effects on non-GMO crops/farms, and potential control of the GM food supply by seed companies.\n\nThe conflicts have continued since GM foods were invented. They have occupied the media, the courts, local, regional and national governments and international organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28980339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28980339", "title": "George Barbu Știrbei", "text": "George Barbu Știrbei\n\nGeorge Barbu Știrbei or Știrbeiŭ, also known as Gheorghe, Georgie, or Iorgu Știrbei (Francized \"Georges Stirbey\"; April 1, 1828 – August 15, 1925), was a Wallachian-born Romanian aristocrat and politician who served as the Minister of Foreign Affairs from July 15, 1866 until February 21, 1867. He was the eldest son of Barbu Dimitrie Știrbei, Prince of Wallachia, and the nephew of his rival, Gheorghe Bibescu; his younger siblings included the landowner and industrialist Alexandru B. Știrbei. Educated in France, he returned to Wallachia during his father's princely mandate, as a \"Beizadea\" and aspiring politician. Fleeing his country during the Crimean War, he served the French Empire before returning home to become Wallachian Minister of War and \"Spatharios\". He is remembered for reforming the Wallachian militia during the remainder of Prince Barbu's term.\n\nȘtirbei remained a legislator of Wallachia and then of the United Principalities. He was however strongly opposed to the Principalities' first \"Domnitor\", Alexandru Ioan Cuza, reemerging by 1860 as a charismatic leader of the conservative opposition. His involvement in political scandals and electoral intrigues led to his brief arrest that same year, but Cuza was ultimately toppled in 1866. Following this, Știrbei abandoned his own bid for the throne to serve \"Domnitor\" Carol of Hohenzollern. As Foreign Minister, he helped secure recognition for the United Principalities, and made diplomatic overtures toward Austria-Hungary. Failing in his attempt to become Prime Minister of Romania, he was disappointed with the \"Domnitor\", leaving politics altogether.\n\nȘtirbei divided the second half of his life between homes in Paris and Bécon-les-Bruyères, and was naturalized French. In this period, he was a collector and patron of the arts, noted as Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux's last-ever sponsor. He was also married to the actress and sculptor Valérie Simonin, adopting her daughters Consuelo and Georges Achille Fould—whom he educated artistically. His parallel work was as a cultural journalist, and, late in his life, as the posthumous editor of Jean-Jacques Weiss and as a memoirist. His controversial dealings with Carpeaux, the status of his inheritance, and his paternity disputes remained at the center of public attention long after his death.\n\nȘtirbei was born in Bucharest, the Wallachian capital, on April 1, 1828, a date he himself gave against records which have 1834; other sources claim 1832. His paternal origins were in the Bibescu family, which had its roots in the petty boyar nobility of Oltenia: a yeoman Bibul, living before 1700, was the family patriarch. The clan went through a rapid social climb after the fall of the Phanariotes and the foundation of a \"Regulamentul Organic\" regime. As a protege of Prince Grigore IV Ghica in the 1820s, George's grandfather Dumitrachi married Ecaterina, a member of the Văcărescu family, and made friends with her tutor, \"Vornic\" Barbu C. Știrbei. He was a godfather to Dumitrachi's first-born, Barbu Bibescu, whom he adopted, before dying in 1813; Barbu was therefore the only one known as Știrbei among the three Bibescu brothers. On his mother Elisabeta's side, George descended from the Cantacuzino family, specifically its branch in Moldavia.\n\nWhen his son was born, Barbu Bibescu-Știrbei was merely a \"Clucer\", trailing behind his more ambitious brother Gheorghe; his climb was moreover interrupted by the Russian Empire, with its invasion of Wallachia. It resumed when he was imposed by Consul Peter I. Rikman into the cabinet of Prince Alexandru II Ghica. The liberal-minded and Westernizing Pavel Kiselyov become governor of the two Danubian Principalities, also forcing Știrbei's appointment to government offices. This service prompted the establishment to regard the Bibescu–Știrbeis as intolerable upstarts—or \"Oltenian horse-breeders\", in the reported sayings of Alecu Filipescu-Vulpea. Other critics jokingly referred to the brothers as the \"equine dynasty\".\n\nDuring those years, Barbu fathered six more children by Elisabeta: sons Alexandru and Dimitrie, daughters Fenereta, Alina, Elisabeta, and Elena. When George turned 12 in 1840, his father dispatched him to the Kingdom of France, where he enlisted at the Bollin school, then at Lycée Louis-le-Grand. During his time at Louis-le-Grand, young Știrbei met and befriended the future writer-politician Jean-Jacques Weiss, becoming his admirer and, later, his biographer and editor. Taking his \"Baccalauréat\" in August 1847, he studied in parallel at the Administrative School, Collège de France, and the Paris Law Faculty. His graduation from the latter came in August 1850, when he published with Firmin Didot his thesis \"De Condictione indebite ou Des obligations qui se forment sans contrat\". He witnessed the French Revolution of 1848, and in later years emphasized its positive qualities in disputes with the more conservative politicians. This period of Știrbei's life also overlapped with a Wallachian Revolution, which toppled his uncle Bibescu from the throne. Having conceded the 1842 election to his brother, Barbu Știrbei accepted government office, but maintained his independence. He had been sidelined by the time of the revolt, keeping silent during its outbreak. However, as noted by his son, he privately resented it as an experiment in socialism.\n\nFollowing interventions by Russia and the Ottoman Empire, Barbu Știrbei was made Prince and George became the \"Beizadea\". Returning to Bucharest, he was incorporated as a Major into the Wallachian military forces and joined the Prince on official duties, including on his 1851 visit to Telega; he was dispatched on official trips to Saint Petersburg, Hermannstadt, and Istanbul. Noted as a \"great lover of theater and invaluable supporter of the actors\", \"especially fond\" of the comedian Costache Caragiale, he was present with his father for the inauguration of Caragiale's Bucharest Theater (late 1852). In 1853 he joined his father's government as \"Logothete\" of the Justice Ministry. The cabinet also included Alexandru Plagino, who was brothers-in-law with the \"Beizadea\"; later, his brothers-in-law included Ion Emanuel Florescu. Of his sisters, Elena, married count Leo Larisch von Mönnich from Cieszyn Silesia; in 1855, she gave birth to his son Georg, later husband of the Baroness Wallersee.\n\nA new Russian intervention came in summer 1853, during the escalation ahead of the Crimean War. At the time, \"Beizadea\" George was a Colonel attached to the General Staff. Alongside his father, he paid homage to Mikhail Dmitrievich Gorchakov, an effective surrender. He was eventually chased out of the country by the unfolding events (as were his younger brothers), and returned to Paris, where he applied for service in the French Army. Attached as a foreigner, he was stationed with the Versailles cavalry, and became Pierre Chrétien Korte's \"aide de camp\". He spent the war negotiating with the Second French Empire and the Ottomans on behalf of his father, carefully balancing the interests of both powers. \n\nRussia's defeat restored his father to the throne, allowing Știrbei to be decommissioned and to return home; Wallachia and Moldavia had by then been placed under international supervision, ending \"Regulamentul Organic\". The new tutelage of the country involved not only the Ottomans and the Russians, but also France, the Austrian Empire, Great Britain, the Kingdom of Prussia, and Piedmont-Sardinia. From Bucharest, George Știrbei left on new diplomatic tours, visiting Moldavia and approaching its Prince, Grigore Alexandru Ghica; he also had contacts with Austria through Count Coronini. He presented the latter with a paper, \"Resumé de la situation administrative de Valachie\", which became useful for the Western powers in evaluating the course of Wallachian affairs. \n\n\"Beizadea\" Știrbei was eventually sent to France with orders to complete his military education there. He is known to have taken courses at both the Prussian Military Academy and the Military School of Saint-Cyr, following which he became a Wallachian general and Minister of War (\"Spatharios\"). This position allowed him influence over the political and social life. His art collection probably dates back to this period, when painter Theodor Aman, whom the Știrbeis elevated to the rank of \"Pitar\", sent him one of his canvasses as thanks. Possibly pressed on by the Moldavian precedent, from December 1855 the \"Beizadea\" and fellow minister Plagino also recommended to Prince Barbu that he liberate Wallachia's Romani slaves.\nAs noted by his subordinate Dimitrie Papazoglu, his reformist stance \"won him affection from the entire army.\" His work also included teaching history to cadets enlisted at Wallachia's Military School. In 1855, he traveled to Czernowitz, where he paid homage to Emperor Franz Joseph. At the time, the \"Beizadea\" approached France's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Édouard Drouyn de Lhuys, asking him to provide training for Wallachian militias in the event of war with the Ottomans; he also obtained the recall of a hostile consul, Eugène Poujade. \n\nThrough his son, Prince Barbu also communicated his plans for establishing the \"United Principalities\" of Wallachia, Moldavia, and the Budjak, with perpetual neutrality and full independence, to guard the mouths of the Danube against Russian encroachment. These plans also provided for the election to the unified throne of a foreign prince, unconnected to the boyardom. Attending the Paris Peace Conference, the \"Beizadea\" resigned himself to the discovery that his father's mandate would not be renewed, and from that point on demanded that a foreign dynasty be placed on Wallachia's throne. The Știrbeis also began lobbying for the construction of a railway from Kronstadt to Oltenița. If built, it would have been Wallachia's first. \n\nAppointed \"Caimacam\" in July 1856, Alexandru II Ghica immediately ordered State Secretary Plagino and \"Spatharios\" Știrbei to be stripped of their offices, and announced a formal investigation of the deposed regime, which caused an uproar among the Știrbeists. Unpopular with the boyars, and faced with their passive resistance, Ghica sought to reconcile with the moderate wing of the National Party, a loose group which advocated union. After this period of uncertainty, his father won a seat as deputy to the ad-hoc Divan in the September 1857 race. Both father and son took a reserved stance on the unionist issue, favoring good relations with the Ottoman Empire, which did not approve of the National Party. Following Ghica's demotion and the reshuffle of 1858, the Știrbeis controlled one of the three new \"Caimacami\", Ioan Manu.\n\nThe Știrbeist project was damaged by the election of January 1859, in which both Bibescu brothers stood as candidates in Dolj County. The \"Beizadea\" also ran at Dolj's landowners college, in what was reported as a dirty race, complete with \"machinations and base intrigues.\" As reported by \"Steoa Dunărei\", he also took a seat in Romanați County. A set of circumstances, utilized to its advantage by the National Party, resulted in the election to the throne of a Moldavian, Alexandru Ioan Cuza, as \"Domnitor\" of both countries—now officially the \"United Principalities\". His father's ambition of reaching the same result from a more conservative basis was frustrated on January 23, when his own candidacy for the throne was rejected by the deputies.\n\nAfter his confirmation to the newly-formed Legislative Assembly, \"Beizadea\" Știrbei stood on the its hard right: he and Florescu proposed an illiberal press law, drawing protests from their fellow deputy, the journalist Cezar Bolliac. A wider conflict soon erupted between the Cuzas and the Știrbeis. Already in July 1859, while seemingly vacationing at Mont-Dore-les-Bains, \"Beizadea\" Știrbei attacked Cuza in a protest paper addressed to the foreign powers, alleging that the new regime equated anarchy. The consolidated opposition, headed by Barbu Catargiu and Constantin N. Brăiloiu, wanted him to lead their Conservative Committee, but Știrbei dropped out and Plagino was considered instead. During that legislature, he and Catargiu, who served as the Minister of Finance, had extensive disagreements over budgetary matters and economic policies. However, according to a note in the \"Gazzetta Ufficiale\", he was the \"natural leader\" of a \"conservative party, comprising for the most supporters of the former princes Stirbey and Bibesco \". Similarly, historian Nicolae Iorga describes the conservative faction as a \"party of the pretenders\", uniting George Barbu with Bibescu's heirs.\n\nEventually, Știrbei joined the Assembly in the 1860 election, taking the majority vote at Craiova. This race was also mired in controversy, after the authorities alleged that he had bribed the electorate. In March, he joined the committee which was to present Cuza with the Assembly's stances, but he resigned over disagreements with his colleagues. During the ramified scandal, his alleged direct threats against Cuza resulted in his arrest. He was charged with high treason and, reportedly, \"Romanians [felt] passionate about the prisoner, asking that he stand trial.\" The breach of his parliamentary immunity degenerated into a national embarrassment, prompting the collective resignation of Ion Ghica's Wallachian cabinet. He retook his seat in the 1861 race. This came shortly after violent riots in Craiova, which, Știrbei argued, called for a parliamentary inquiry. Carried by an anti-Cuza majority opposed in particular to land reform, this legislature elected him Vice President, seconding Catargiu. According to various sources, he was also the President of that body.\n\nAn Ottoman diplomat, Aristarchi Bey, recounted in June 1861 that \"the prince Stirbey\" and other \"leading boyars\" were fostering \"agitation in favor of a foreign prince\"; this move, he suspected, had Russian backing. Together, Știrbei, Alexandru C. Moruzi and Manolache Costache Epureanu pushed the Assembly into a deadlock, filibustering over Cuza's attempt to introduce a copyhold (\"embatic\"), set aside for landless peasants and supplied from the monastery land reserve. During those moths, he drew close to the conservative club formed by Apostol Arsache, maintaining only loose contacts with the Catargiu faction—they differed on foreign policy issues, with Știrbei favoring an anti-Ottoman stance that Catargiu thought excessive. In July, Știrbei and Catargiu, who was by then the Prime Minister of Romania, reviewed with alarm a meeting of the left-wing liberals on Filaret Hill, which had demanded increased political representation. Știrbei was described as a covert reactionary by the liberal doyen, C. A. Rosetti, but he protested against the label; a polemic ensued.\n\nNevertheless, over the following months, Știrbei sponsored Rosetti's daily newspaper \"Românul\", which began advocating for Bibescu to replace Cuza. In June 1862, jointly with Rosetti and Ion Brătianu, he stepped down from the Assembly to protest Cuza's policies. Over the autumn months, he toured European capitals to obtain support for the conservative projects. In January of the following year, with conservatives recovering ground after Catargiu's assassination and other setbacks, Știrbei signed his name to a letter of protest against Cuza's authoritarianism. In April, he publicized his tax resistance and litigation with the authorities of Amzei suburb, Bucharest. \n\nȘtirbei was subsequently a noted player in the \"monstrous coalition\", grouping left-liberals and \"White\" conservatives against Cuza and his centrist government. In September, he and D. Ghica were star defenders at Rosetti's own trial for sedition. Appearing alongside Brătianu and Anastasie Panu, Știrbei now spoke about press freedom as being vital for civic education. With Cuza taking more radical positions on land reform, Știrbei also revised his stance. Alongside a bipartisan committee (comprising Rosetti, Brătianu, Panu, Ion Ghica, Anton I. Arion, Grigore Arghiropol and Nicolae Golescu), he now supported the sale of state land to the landless.\n\nIn January 1863, Știrbei signed his name to a letter of protest which openly defied Cuza's agenda. Cuza's response to the resistance was an effective coup in May 1864. Eventually, he was himself toppled by the \"monstrous coalition\" in early 1866—a secretive palace coup in which Știrbei allegedly had a prominent role. Following the election of April 1866, Știrbei was sent to the unified Assembly of Deputies, which was debating the new Constitution. In that context, he adopted a classical liberal stance, explaining that both his party and the liberals could agree on the restoration of \"true freedom\". \n\nDespite reintroducing such pluralism, the regime change had left uncertain the continuation of Moldo–Wallachian federalism. In that context, Știrbei became one of the Romanian diplomats tasked with obtaining an international settlement recognizing continued union under a foreign \"Domnitor\". However, as reported by his supervisor Ion Bălăceanu, Știrbei also tried to promote his own bid for the throne, which was received with ridicule. His father also entertained the notion that either George or one of his brothers would be selected. Eventually, Știrbei recognized the results of the April plebiscite and communicated to the Prussian prince Carol of Hohenzollern, that Romanians wanted him as their \"Domnitor\". In September, his father, who was living his final years in Nice, made a show of his loyalty by visiting Carol in Bucharest, pledging his and his sons' \"industrious and faithful\" support.\nFrom July 15, Știrbei had joined Ghica's national cabinet as Minister of Foreign Affairs, endeavoring to ensure Ottoman recognition for a continued union under Carol. He and the \"Domnitor\" went to Istanbul for the \"firman\", which was granted to them by Abdülaziz. Carol signaled his refusal of direct vassalage by making Știrbei read the document, which signaled to Abdülaziz that he considered himself an equal. Știrbei also took some of the first steps in bringing Romania closer to Austria-Hungary, which remained a staple of the conservative approach to foreign politics. He began talks with the Count von Beust regarding the exchange of consuls, extradition procedures, and connecting Romania's railway grid with the StEG. The \"Beizadea\" joined the 60-man conservative caucus in the Assembly, and, after the election of November 1866, was recognized as a factional leader, alongside a fellow \"Beizadea\", Dimitrie Ghica. The political realignment made him an adversary of the liberal camp. Its magazine, \"Ghimpele\", claimed that Știrbei was a comical man, \"stuffed on princely might and pride\", whose activity as minister amounted to \"continuously advising the empires\" on how to handle Romania.\n\nȘtirbei was reconfirmed as deputy for Dolj and Craiova in the December 1867 election, this time without controversy. The \"Domnitor\", who found him to be a competent diplomat, also considered him for his Prime Minister. The latter proposal, endorsed by the French, was vetoed by Karl Anton of Hohenzollern, who feared that Știrbei had not renounced his bid for the throne. Reportedly, this greatly disappointed the candidate, contributing to his decision to quit politics and the country altogether—although, according to other accounts, he cited reasons of health. As noted in 1880 by a friend, the art historian Ernest Chesneau, Știrbei sensed a need for \"independence\". \n\nȘtirbei was residing in Nice by February 1868, when he attended a gala for the European Squadron, alongside Alfred Le Roux, Ludwig II of Bavaria, and the Duke of Parma. He still resented the liberals' approach to foreign policy, and, late in 1868, traveled to Pest, Hungary, where he was received by the Minister-President, Gyula Andrássy. Știrbei claimed that the liberals would allow Romania to be invaded by Russia, with Andrássy assuring him that Austria-Hungary would respond militarily, without herself annexing the former Principalities. During the final years of the Empire, Știrbei served Napoleon III as a diplomat, and was made by him a Commander of the Legion of Honor. After his departure, the family's political role in the new Kingdom of Romania was fulfilled by his brother Alexandru, who served as chairman of the Conservative Party and had several ministerial positions.\n\nFrom 1869, \"Beizadea\" George based himself in Paris, purchasing an apartment on Boulevard Haussmann, and, in 1871, also an Empire-style \"château\" in Bécon-les-Bruyères. The latter had been a temporary home by Adolphe Thiers, and then an Orsini residence; heavily damaged by the Paris Commune, it was restored and enlarged by its new owner. Settling in France for good, he forfeited his inheritance of the Știrbei Palace on Calea Victoriei, which went to his brothers, alongside the Buftea estates. Instead, he took his parents' residence in Nice and most of Barbu's French assets. The issue, contested between him and his siblings, was settled at the Court of Cassation in 1873. This landmark case imposed on him to share the villa with the other inheritors, with special criteria for calculating the inheritance tax. At the time, Știrbei was suing the administration of Paris for damages to his \"château\", taking Jules Favre as his lawyer. In 1882, as Paris auctioned off the ruins of Tuileries Palace, also destroyed by the Commune, Știrbei purchased the fence, which became part of Bécon complex.\n\nBy 1878, Știrbei was a trustee of Le Temps, a life insurance provider founded by the Alfred Blanche of the Conseil d'État. His other sources of income included journalism, with opinion pieces that he signed with the pen name \"James Caterly\", and with articles in \"Journal des Débats\". As such, he was immersing himself in French cultural life. According to Georges Duval, the \"excellent prince\" Știrbei \"discreetly rescued the unfortunate, just as he was providing for the talented ones.\" During the cultural purge that followed the proclamation of a Third French Republic, Știrbei protected and sponsored sculptor Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux, the aging Bonapartist, purchasing his various works. In 1875, when the Prince took Carpeaux with him to Nice, painter Bruno Chérier noted a change for the better: \"A fairy and her magic wand could not have pulled it off better in transforming our poor Carpeaux.\" The two, he recalled, lived in \"princely luxury\". Chesneau calls Știrbei a \"grand lord by birth and character\", who welcomed Carpeaux with \"charming familiarity\", while D. S. MacColl credits him with having \"rescued [Carpeaux] from a Dantesque misery of disease and squalor.\"\n\nIn August 1875, when Carpeaux was made Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor, Știrbei was the first to bring him the news, at the church in Courbevoie. The artist died a few weeks later at Bécon, \"consoled by the touching care of his princely host.\" Controversially, Știrbei had purchased Carpeaux's drawings (including his study after the cadaver of Victor Liet) and his seal of authenticity, which technically allowed him to pass plaster cast as the originals; for several years, he battled in court with the Carpeaux estate over ownership of these items, ultimately relinquishing the seal. Before donating the drawings, Știrbei released them as an album, published using photoengraving. Carpeaux's tomb was another issue of contention: the Prince had ordered the body to be buried in Courbevoie, giving it a lavish funeral. The widow, who was kept absent from the ceremony, sued and won, taking the remains to Valenciennes.\nȘtirbei was also the patron of Rosa Bonheur and, from 1888, an organizer of the Auguste Feyen-Perrin collectors' committee. He built up the rest of his art collection with samples from other artists, notably Pierre Puvis de Chavannes, Giulio Bergonzoli, Emilio Zocchi, and Valérie Simonin. The latter, originally an actress, was married to the playwright Gustave-Eugène Fould (and was as such the daughter-in-law of Bonapartist Achille Fould). Știrbei had been a confidant of her husband, who gave his daughter Georges Achille a male name in honor of Știrbei. Following Gustave's death in 1884, Valérie remained the Prince's close friend, so much so that in 1888 Știrbei adopted both Georges Achille and her other daughter, Consuelo Fould.\n\nFrom 1885, Știrbei applied for naturalization as a French citizen, which he obtained in 1888. In 1895, he married Simonin. He took personal care of his adoptive daughters' training in art, allowing them to study with Léon Comerre and Ferdinand Roybet. He also bought India and Sweden–Norway's pavilions from the 1878 World's Fair (respectively designed by Caspar Purdon Clarke and Henrik Thrap-Meyer), which became their respective studios.\n\nIn March 1887, rumors spread that Știrbei intended to replace Alexander of Battenberg on the Bulgarian throne. According to the \"Moskovskiye Vedomosti\", he was supported in this by Britain. Știrbei dismissed such stories, insisting that he had \"no intention of reentering the political scene\". During that period of his life, although isolated, Știrbei still entertained Romanian guests, including, in 1888, the journalist Alexandru Ciurcu.\n\nFollowing his brother Alexandru's illness and death in early 1895, George also continued to have links with his Romanian family. In 1901, he and his cousin Alexandru Bibescu helped organize the Paris wedding between Dimitrie Știrbei's daughter, Martha, and Hans von Blome. By then, his large family included numerous figures of importance in politics and literature. Alexandru's children included Barbu Știrbey, the \"White Prince\", and his brother George, who expanded their father's estate. The \"White Prince\" in particular reclaimed the family's political role, briefly serving as Prime Minister in 1927. He was famous as the lover of Queen Marie of Romania, and alleged father of Princess Ileana. Barbu's sister Eliza was the wife of two other Prime Ministers, Alexandru Marghiloman and Ion I. C. Brătianu. Their sisters, who died young, married into the elite: one was the mother of George Cretzianu, and the other the wife of Radu R. Rosetti. The Prince also had pilot Marina Știrbei for a niece, and, on the Bibescu side, nephews George Valentin Bibescu, the aviation pioneer, and Antoine Bibesco, who also lived in France and was famous for his friendship with novelist Marcel Proust. A French grandniece, Anna de Noailles, was celebrated for her literary contributions, especially after 1902.\n\nFrom 1891 to 1902, Știrbei edited a posthumous edition of Weiss' complete works at Calmann-Lévy, followed in 1910 by his monograph \"J.-J. Weiss, conférencier, chroniqueur de théâtre, journaliste\". His own one-act comedy, \"La légende de Saint Déodat\", came out at Firmin Didot in 1905, with illustrations by Maurice Leloir. In 1906, Prince George welcomed to Paris the Romanian student Eugen Lovinescu, directing his own research on J.-J. Weiss. At the time, as \"James Caterly\", he published the monograph \"Les Roumains\" (1908), which Lovinescu would translate and publish in Romania in 1909 or 1910. Știrbei's new protege was reserved in his overall opinion of the prince, writing that his Paris home resembled an old \"boyar mansion\", replete with \"objets d'art\" from the Orient. These, Lovinescu believed, were there to show that Știrbei missed his Wallachia. According to Știrbei's own words, he lived \"surrounded by memories, by his books, in quiet isolation\". From the 1880s onward, he had slowly divided his art objects were between the Louvre, the École des Beaux-Arts, and the Angers and Valenciennes Museums; others preserved at their original location in Bécon. He made the news again in August 1910, when one of his most trusted servants stole his wife's jewelry, worth 18,000 French francs, from her apartment on Boulevard de Courcelles. \n\nIn 1916, at the height of World War I, Știrbei printed his complete works, including memoirs, as \"Feuilles d'automne et feuilles d'hiver\". He was a widower from July 1919, when the aged Princess Valérie died at Pontaillac. Știrbei himself died a nonagenarian on the morning of August 15, 1925. His funeral service was held with military honors at the Catholic church of Saint-Charles-de-Monceau, and his burial took place at Père Lachaise Cemetery. In 1926–1928, his daughters were taken to court by the elderly Austrian tenor Georg Schütte Harmsen, who claimed to have been Știrbei's son by a chambermaid. Schütte, who showed records of his Orthodox baptism, received a positive verdict in primary court, but died \"of joy\" upon receiving the news. The Carpeaux controversy was prolonged into the 1930s and beyond by the sculptor's daughter Louise Clémentel, who repeated allegations made about Știrbei in her \"La verité sur l'oeuvre et la vie de Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux\". \n\nIn 1928, the Știrbei estate was reportedly worth more than 100 million shilling. From this total, Consuelo assigned a special fund to the \"Institut de France\", which grants an annual Știrbei award. She and Georges Achille inherited most of the assets, including the pavilions. The sisters had conflicting visions: Consuelo, who died in 1927, bequeathed her pavilion to host a memorial museum for Roybet; twenty years later, the municipality of Courbevoie confiscated the land for its own city museum. The core buildings of the \"château\" were razed in conjunction with the extension of La Défense, although in the end nothing was built to replace them. The former Swedish pavilion is home to a Roybet museum, which also has art by the Fould–Știrbei sisters. In 2013, the Indian pavilion was restored and, since 2015, has been a studio for sculptors-in-residence.\n"}
{"id": "51073476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51073476", "title": "Guy Ullens", "text": "Guy Ullens\n\nBaron Guy François Edouard Marie Ullens de Schooten Whettnall (born 31 January 1935) is a Belgian art collector, philanthropist, and former businessperson.\n\nFollowing his business career, he has with his wife, Myriam Ullens, established the Guy & Myriam Ullens Foundation, known for the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art in Beijing, China, and for founding the Ullens School in Lalitpur, Nepal.\n\nGuy Ullens was born in San Francisco, California as the third child to Baron Jean Marie Joseph Anne Mathilde Alphonse Ullens de Schooten Whettnall (1897–1950), a Belgian diplomat, and a member of the noble family of the Southern Netherlands. His mother was ethnographic photographer, writer, and Royal Geographical Society fellow, Baroness Marie Thérèse Pauline Francis Ullens de Schooten Whettnall \"née\" Wittouck (1905–89), of the Belgium noble family , a daughter of distilling and sugar magnate , who together with his brothers and Paul Wittouck owned the Sugar refinery of Tienen.\n\nThe family moved to Oslo, Norway shortly after Guy was born, where Jean Ullens took up the diplomatic position of acting Minister for Belgium. Over the course of World War II, the family was confined to Berlin, and later lived in India, Pakistan, and Iran.\n\nAfter a degree in law from the Catholic University of Louvain, Belgium in 1958, Ullens obtained an MBA at Stanford University in 1960. He started Eurocan in Mechelen, Belgium, a company that specialized in the manufacture of metal packagings for preserved foods and beverages.\n\nIn 1973, he joined the management of the family company R. T. Holding, a conglomerate in food industries, and played as CEO a central role in the company's expansion into Asia. In 1989, the \"Raffinerie Tirlemontoise\" was sold to German company Südzucker in a €1 billion deal.\n\nProceeds from the sale were reinvested in food businesses via the holding company Artal Group, which Ullens served as president and CEO for. In 1999, following a change in strategy, Artal entered the textile industry buying French company Albert, and took control of Weight Watchers International in a US$735 million 1980s-style leveraged buyout in September 1999 buying from Heinz 94% of Weight Watchers' equity. Artal Group subsequently earned US$3.8 billion by selling stocks while retaining a 52% majority stake in Weight Watchers. Guy Ullens told \"Forbes\" in 2012, that the initial US$224 million direct investment in Weight Watchers had returned US$5.2 billion to Artal Group.\n\nIn 2000, Guy Ullens retired from business to devote himself to philanthropic projects with his wife, Myriam Ullens.\n\nIn 2002 they set up the Guy & Myriam Ullens Foundation. One of the first purposes of the Foundation was to sponsor and organize exhibitions of Chinese art, and to lend pieces to museums and cultural centres around the world.\n\nGuy and Myriam Ullens helped children in Nepal by establishing orphanages and two intensive care centres for children with malnutrition. They also set up the Ullens School Kathmandu, partnering with the Bank Street College of Education to train Nepalese teachers. The Ullens School Kathmandu is the only school in Nepal to be IB certified.\n\nWhen Myriam Ullens was diagnosed with cancer in 2003, Guy Ullens took over the development of the Nepal project.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Ullens initiated a collection of Chinese art that is one of the worlds largest and by 2007 included nearly 1,700 pieces. The Ullens Collection is managed by the Guy and Myriam Ullens Foundation.\n\nIn 2007, the Foundation established the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art (UCCA) in the Dashanzi district of Beijing. In order to establish UCCA, Ullens sold off his collection of J. M. W. Turner watercolour paintings for £10.76 million at a Sotheby's auction in London in July 2007. UCCA was the first not-for-profit art centre in China dedicated to contemporary art.\n\nIn a Sotheby's Hong Kong auction in April 2011, exclusively featuring 106 works from the Ullens Collection, Zhang Xiaogang's 1988 triptych oil work \"Forever Lasting Love\", of half-naked figures in an arid landscape suffused with mystical symbols, sold for HK$79 million (US$10.1 million), a record auction price for a contemporary artwork from China, in Hong Kong.\n\nIn October 2013, Sotheby's Hong Kong at the Asian Contemporary 40th Anniversary Sale, Ullens put up for sale Chen Yifei's political realist work \"Red Flag 1\" (1971), and \"The Last Supper\" (2001) by contemporary Chinese artist Zeng Fanzhi. \"The Last Supper\" was sold for US$23.3 million, setting a new record for contemporary Asian artwork.\n\nIn 2016, Ullens, now in his 80s, announced that he was looking to hand over the UCCA and would sell his art collection at auction.\n\nOn the 11th of February 2017, the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art received the 2016 Global Fine Art Awards for Best Contemporary / Postwar / SoloArtist “Rauschenberg in China”.\n\nUllens married Micheline Franckx (1932–2015) in 1955. They had four children, and divorced in 1999.\n\nIn 1999, Ullens married Myriam \"Mimi\" Lechien (born 1952), a Belgian entrepreneur.\n\nUllens is a yachtsman, and owns the 170 ft (51.77 m) long flybridge aluminium sloop \"Red Dragon II\" with interior design by French architect Jean-Michel Wilmotte. Build by Alloy Yachts in New Zealand in 2007 and commissioned in 2008, the yacht was put up for sale for US$28 million in 2015.\n\nUllens lives in Verbier in south-western Switzerland in the canton of Valais, where he has been a member of the Verbier Festival foundation, and was, according to \"Het Laatste Nieuws\", worth an estimated €250–330 million in 2012.\n\nUllens was appointed Officer of the Legion of Honour on 4 June 2003, Commander of the Legion of Honor on 1 February 2010, and Commander of the Order of Leopold II on 5 October 2011.\n"}
{"id": "1504453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1504453", "title": "Hendrikus Colijn", "text": "Hendrikus Colijn\n\nHendrikus \"Hendrik\" Colijn (22 June 1869 – 18 September 1944) was a Dutch military officer, businessman and politician who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 1925 to 1926 and again from 1933 to 1939.\n\nHe was born on 22 June 1869 in the Haarlemmermeer to Antonie Colijn and Anna Verkuijl, who had migrated to the newly created Haarlemmermeer polder from the Land of Heusden and Altena for religious reasons. He was the first of six children, all born in Haarlemmermeer. Colijn grew up in the Land of Altena.\n\nAt the age of 16, he went to a military academy in Kampen for officer training, where he graduated as a 2nd lieutenant in 1892. On 18 September 1893, he married Helena Groenenberg (23 September 1867 – 14 February 1947). and was sent to the Dutch East Indies. During his 16 years in the Dutch East Indies, he spent ten years in the Colonial Army, serving in the Aceh War as the lieutenant of J. B. van Heutsz, and six further years in the Colonial administration, having the same role towards van Heutsz when the latter became Governor General in 1904.\n\nColijn's letters to his wife from his period on Lombok reveal his participation in acts of brutality which by modern standards would be considered severe war crimes:\n\nI have seen a mother carrying a child of about 6 months old on her left arm, with a long lance in her right hand, who was running in our direction. One of our bullets killed the mother as well as the child. From now on we couldn't give any mercy, it was over. I did give orders to gather a group of 9 women and 3 children who asked for mercy and they were shot all together. It was not a pleasant job, but something else was impossible. Our soldiers tacked them with pleasure with their bayonets. It was horrible. I will stop reporting now.\n\nAfter his return to the Netherlands in 1909, he was elected as an Anti-Revolutionary Party Member of Parliament for the district Sneek (Before 1918, the Dutch voting system was the same as the British).\n\nIn 1911, he was appointed Minister of War and revised the Dutch Selective Service System. In May 1918 he acted as an intermediary between the British and Kaiser Wilhelm II of Germany to arrange an armistice, resulting in the Kaiser getting refuge in The Netherlands.\n\nIn 1910 the Holland Dakota Landbouw Compagnie is established with Hendrikus Colijn and his brother as the primary share holders.\n\nFrom 1914 to 1922 he served as CEO for the Bataafse Petroleum Maatschappij (BPM). In 1925, he also became CEO of Royal Dutch Shell.\n\nIn 1922 he accepted the political leadership of the Anti-Revolutionary Party (Calvinist) from Dr. Abraham Kuyper. Already one year later he succeeded resigning minister Dirk Jan de Geer as Minister of Finance. In 1925 Colijn also became prime minister, but a year later Colijn had to step down when the House of Representatives accepted a resolution by Gerrit Hendrik Kersten of the Protestant Reformed Political Party which called for diplomatic ties with the Vatican to be broken. This was unacceptable to the Roman Catholic State Party then in government. Colijn then returned to the Senate, and from 1927 to 1929, he served as head of the Dutch delegation to the League of Nations in Geneva. At the elections of 1929 he was elected for the House of Representatives, and immediately became Parliamentary leader of his party. This proved to be a success: at the elections of 1933 the ARP gained two seats, and Colijn became Prime Minister again. From 1933–1939 he served four more times as prime minister. During the 1930s his government faced the effects of the Great Depression, which took a heavy toll on the Netherlands. Colijn's government responded to the economic crisis with a very strict fiscal policy, which may have further weakened the Dutch economy. Colijn's decision to adhere to the Gold Standard until 1937, long after most of the trading partners of the Netherlands had dropped it, also played a role in lengthening the economic crisis. In 1939, his latest cabinet, with Protestant and liberal ministers but without Catholic ministers, lasted only three days before a government crisis.\n\nAfter the Dutch defeat in the Battle of the Netherlands in 1940, he published an essay entitled \"On the Border of Two Worlds\", in which he called for accepting German leadership in Europe, immediately after the Royal House had fled to England, leaving him behind. His view was influenced by the tremendous show of force the German blitzkrieg had shown and the relative weakness of the Allied forces. Soon thereafter, he tried to organize political resistance but was arrested in June 1941 and taken to Berlin for interrogation. The Germans tried to have him confess that he had conspired with the British to invade the Netherlands to serve as an excuse for the German invasion.\n\nLate in the war after the tide had turned against the Germans, according to a grandson, Himmler wanted to keep Colijn available as a possible intermediary with the British, as he had done earlier for Wilhelm II. The very fact that the Gestapo allowed the visit suggests that Himmler was already making contingency plans in case of a German loss. In March 1943 Colijn was put under house arrest in a remote mountain hotel in Ilmenau, where he died on 18 September 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "2204831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2204831", "title": "Henry A. du Pont", "text": "Henry A. du Pont\n\nHenry Algernon du Pont (July 30, 1838 – December 31, 1926) was an American military officer, businessman, and politician from Delaware. A member of the famed Du Pont family, he graduated first in his class from West Point shortly after the beginning of the American Civil War and served in the U.S. Army, earning the Medal of Honor for his actions during the Battle of Cedar Creek in October 1864.\n\nAfter retiring from the Army in 1875, he was president of the Wilmington and Northern Railroad Company for 20 years, until 1899. An active member of the Republican Party, he was elected by the state legislature as a U.S. Senator from Delaware, serving most of two terms (June 13, 1906 to March 4, 1917).\n\nDu Pont was born July 30, 1838, at Eleutherian Mills, near Greenville, Delaware, son of Henry and Louisa Gerhard du Pont and grandson of Eleuthère Irénée du Pont, the founder of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and the family in the United States.\n\nHe attended the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, and graduated first in his class from the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York in 1861, after the beginning of the American Civil War.\n\nDu Pont was commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant of Engineers upon his graduation from West Point on May 6, 1861. Soon after he was promoted to 1st Lieutenant in the 5th Regiment, U.S. Artillery with date of rank of May 14, 1861. He served as a light artillery officer in the Union Army during the war, initially assigned to the defenses of Washington and New York Harbor. From July 6, 1861 to March 24, 1864, he served as regimental adjutant (administrative officer) until he was promoted to captain. He subsequently became chief of artillery in the Army of West Virginia.\n\nDu Pont was part of General Philip Sheridan's army in the Shenandoah Valley of northern Virginia. He received the Medal of Honor for his handling of a retreat at the Battle of Cedar Creek, allowing Sheridan to win a victory in the battle. During the war, du Pont received two brevets (honorary promotions). The first was to the rank of major, dated September 19, 1864, for gallant service in the battles of Opequon and Fisher's Hill. The second brevet was to the rank of lieutenant colonel, dated October 19, 1864, for distinguished service at the Battle of Cedar Creek, Virginia.\n\nAfter the war, du Pont continued as a career officer until resigning on March 1, 1875. In the postwar years, he became a companion of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States (MOLLUS), an organization for former officers of the Union Army and their descendants. Assigned to the U.S. capital, du Pont was a member of the District of Columbia Commandery, assigned MOLLUS insignia number 10418.\n\nAt the age of 36, du Pont married Mary Pauline Foster in 1874. They had two children, Henry Francis du Pont and Louise Evelina du Pont. They lived on his estate, Winterthur, near Greenville, Delaware. The family were members of Christ Episcopal Church in Christiana Hundred.\n\nIn 1875 du Pont returned full-time to Delaware. Within a few years, he became president and general manager of the Wilmington & Northern Railroad Company, serving from 1879 until 1899. During that time, and for the remainder of his life, he also operated an experimental farm on his estate. Since 1951, when his son established it as a museum, the estate has been operated as the Winterthur Museum and Country Estate near Greenville, Delaware.\n\nDu Pont was elected to the U.S. Senate on June 13, 1906, to fill the vacancy in the term beginning March 4, 1905. During this term, he served with the Republican majority in the 59th, 60th, and 61st U.S. Congress. In the 61st Congress, he was Chairman of the Committee on Expenditures in the Military Affairs Department.\n\nHe was again elected to the U.S. Senate in 1911. During this term, he served with the Republican majority in the 62nd Congress, but was in the minority in the 63rd, and 64th U.S. Congress. In the 62nd Congress he was again Chairman of the Committee on Expenditures in the War Department, in the 63rd Congress he was a member of the Committee on Military Affairs, and in the 64th Congress he was a member of the Committee on Transportation and Sale of Meat Products.\n\nIn the first popular election of a U.S. Senator in Delaware, du Pont lost his bid for a third full term in 1916 to Democrat Josiah O. Wolcott, the Delaware Attorney General. In all, he served most of two terms from June 13, 1906 to March 4, 1917, during the administrations of U.S. Presidents Theodore Roosevelt, William H. Taft and Woodrow Wilson.\n\nHenry A. du Pont died at his home, \"Winterthur,\" and is buried in the Du Pont de Nemours Cemetery at Greenville, Delaware. His son, Henry Francis du Pont, developed his home into the well-known Winterthur Museum. Archival materials relating to him are part of the archives owned by the museum at Greenville, near Wilmington.\n\nRank and organization: Captain, 5th U.S. Artillery. Place and date: At Cedar Creek, Va., October 19, 1864. Entered service at: Wilmington, Del. Birth: Eleutherian Mills, Del. Date of issue: April 2, 1898.\n\nCitation:\n\nDuPont was portrayed by David Arquette in the 2014 film \"Field of Lost Shoes\", which depicted the Battle of New Market in May 1864.\n\nElections are held the first Tuesday after November 1. The General Assembly chose the U.S. Senators, who took office March 4 for a six-year term. After 1913 they were popularly elected.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1276662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1276662", "title": "Henry Morgenthau Sr.", "text": "Henry Morgenthau Sr.\n\nHenry Morgenthau (; April 26, 1856 – November 25, 1946) was an American lawyer, businessman and United States ambassador, most famous as the American ambassador to the Ottoman Empire during the First World War. As ambassador to the Ottoman Empire, Morgenthau has come to be identified as the most prominent American to speak about the Armenian Genocide.\n\nMorgenthau was the father of the politician Henry Morgenthau Jr. His grandchildren included Robert M. Morgenthau, District Attorney of Manhattan for 35 years, and Pulitzer Prize winning historian Barbara W. Tuchman.\n\nMorgenthau was born, the ninth of 11 living children, in Mannheim, Grand Duchy of Baden, in 1856 into an Ashkenazi Jewish family. He was the son of Lazarus and Babette (Guggenheim) Morgenthau. His father was a successful cigar manufacturer who had cigar factories at Mannheim, Lorsch and Heppenheim, employing as many as 1,000 people (Mannheim had a population of 21,000 during this period). Having suffered a severe financial setback during the American Civil War, due to an 1862 tobacco tariff on imports, which closed German tobacco exports to the US forever, the family emigrated to New York in 1866. There, despite a considerable \"nest egg\" of cash, his father was unsuccessful in re-establishing himself in business, as his development and marketing of various inventions and his investments in other enterprises failed. Lazarus Morgenthau was able to stave off failure and stabilize his income by becoming a fundraiser for Jewish houses of worship. Henry attended City College of New York, where he received a BA, and later graduated from Columbia Law School.\n\nHe began his career as a lawyer, but he made a substantial fortune in real estate investments. In 1898, he acquired 41 lots on New York's Lower East Side from William Waldorf Astor for $850,000. A few years later, he led a syndicate that bought a swath of undeveloped land in Washington Heights around 181st Street, anticipating the construction of the first subway through the area. \n\nHe married Josephine Sykes in 1882 and had four children: Helen, Alma, Henry Jr. and Ruth. His daughter Alma was married to financier Maurice Wertheim. Morgenthau built a successful career as a lawyer and served as the leader of the Reform Jewish community in New York.\n\nMorgenthau's career enabled him to contribute handsomely to President Woodrow Wilson's election campaign in 1912. He had first met Wilson in 1911 at a dinner celebrating the fourth anniversary of the founding of the Free Synagogue society and the two \"seem to have bonded\", marking the \"turning point in Morgenthau's political career\". His role in American politics grew more pronounced in later months and though his desire to be designated the financial chairman of the campaign finance committee went unfulfilled, Wilson offered him the position of ambassador to the Ottoman Empire. He had hoped for a cabinet post as well, but was not successful in gaining one.\n\nAs an early Wilson supporter, Morgenthau assumed that Wilson would appoint him to a cabinet-level position, but the new President had other plans for him; like other prominent Jewish Americans, Oscar Straus and Solomon Hirsch before him, Morgenthau would be posted as the ambassador to the Ottoman Empire. Wilson's assumption that Jews somehow represented a bridge between Muslim Turks and Christian Armenians rankled Morgenthau; in reply Wilson assured him that the Porte in Istanbul \"was the point at which the interest of American Jews in the welfare of the Jews of Palestine is focused, and it is almost indispensable that I have a Jew in that post\". Though no Zionist himself, Morgenthau cared \"fervidly\" about the plight of his coreligionists. He initially rejected the position, but following a trip to Europe, and with the encouragement of his pro-Zionist friend Rabbi Stephen Wise, he reconsidered his decision and accepted Wilson's offer. Appointed as U.S. Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire in 1913, he served in this position until 1916.\n\nAlthough the safety of American citizens in the Ottoman Empire, mostly Christian missionaries and Jews, loomed large early in his ambassadorship, Morgenthau stated that the one issue that most preoccupied him was the Armenian Question. After the outbreak of war in 1914, the U.S. remained neutral, so the American Embassy – and by extension Morgenthau – additionally represented many of the Allies' interests in Constantinople, since they had withdrawn their diplomatic missions due to the hostilities. As Ottoman authorities began the Armenian Genocide in 1914–1915, the American consuls residing in different parts of the Empire flooded Morgenthau's desk with reports nearly every hour, documenting the massacres and deportation marches taking place. Faced with the accumulating evidence, he officially informed the U.S. government of the activities of the Ottoman government and asked Washington to intervene.\n\nThe American government however, not wanting to get dragged into disputes, remained a neutral power in the conflict at the time and voiced little official reaction. Morgenthau held high-level meetings with the leaders of the Ottoman Empire to help alleviate the position of the Armenians, but the Turks waived and ignored his protestations. He famously admonished the Ottoman Interior Minister Talaat Pasha, stating: \"Our people will never forget these massacres.\" As the massacres continued unabated, Morgenthau and several other Americans decided to form a public fund-raising committee that would assist the Armenians – the Committee on Armenian Atrocities (later renamed the Near East Relief) – raising over $100 million in aid, the equivalent of $1 billion today. Through his friendship with Adolph Ochs, publisher of the \"New York Times\", Morgenthau also ensured that the massacres continued to receive prominent coverage, with 145 articles in 1915 alone. \n\nExasperated with his relationship with the Ottoman government, he resigned from the ambassadorship in 1916. Looking back on that decision in his \"The Murder of a Nation\", he wrote he had come to see Turkey as \"a place of horror. I had reached the end of my resources. I found intolerable my further daily association with men, however gracious and accommodating…who were still reeking with the blood of nearly a million human beings.\" He published his conversations with Ottoman leaders and his account of the Armenian genocide in 1918 under the title \"Ambassador Morgenthau's Story\".\n\nIn June 1917 Felix Frankfurter accompanied Morgenthau, as a representative of the War Department, on a secret mission to persuade Turkey to abandon the Central Powers in the war effort. The mission had as its stated purpose to \"ameliorate the condition of the Jewish communities in Palestine\". In 1918 Morgenthau gave public speeches in the United States warning that the Greeks and Assyrians were being subjected to the \"same methods\" of deportation and \"wholesale massacre\" as the Armenians, and that two million Armenians, Greeks, and Assyrians had already perished. \n\nFollowing the war, there was much interest and preparation within the Jewish community for the forthcoming Paris Peace Conference, by groups both supportive and opposed to the concept of a Jewish homeland in Palestine. In March 1919, as President Woodrow Wilson was leaving for the Conference, Morgenthau was among 31 prominent Jewish Americans to sign an anti-Zionist petition presented by U.S. Congressman Julius Kahn; he and many other prominent Jewish representatives attended the Conference. Morgenthau served as an advisor regarding Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and later worked with war-related charitable bodies, including the Relief Committee for the Middle East, the Greek Refugee Settlement Commission and the American Red Cross. In 1919 he headed the United States government fact-finding mission to Poland resulting in the Morgenthau Report. In 1933, he was the American representative at the Geneva Conference\n\nHe died in 1946 following a cerebral hemorrhage, in New York City, and was buried in Hawthorne, New York. His son Henry Morgenthau Jr. was a Secretary of the Treasury. His daughter, Alma Wertheim, was the mother of historian Barbara Tuchman. His daughter Ruth Morgenthau was married to banker George W. Naumburg and then John Knight.\n\nMorgenthau published several books. The Library of Congress holds some 30,000 documents from his personal papers, including:\n\n\n\nIn Terry George's 2016 drama \"The Promise\" set in the final years of the Ottoman Empire, Morgenthau is played by James Cromwell.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55089790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55089790", "title": "Herbert D. Strauss", "text": "Herbert D. Strauss\n\nHerbert D. Strauss (1909-1973) was an American advertising executive at the Grey Advertising Agency.\n\nStrauss was born to a Jewish family on April 21, 1909. In 1931, he graduated with a B.A. in economics from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. In 1932, he joined The next year he joined the Riggs Optical Company, a subsidiary of Bausch & Lomb,in Chicago as advertising manager.\n\nIn 1939, he joined the Grey Advertising Agency (founded by Lawrence Valenstein and Arthur C. Fatt) and as an account executive. Grey differentiated itself from its competitors by using a team approach to advertising that closely worked with its customers and conducted extensive marketing research. and focused on developing a brand through pre-selling and building a market for it. In the 1940s, the firm was billing $1 million per year. In 1947, after winning Gruen watch account, billings reached $10 million. In 1955, after winning the Block Drug account, Grey's billings reached $30 million. In 1956, Valenstein became chairman of the board and Fatt became president. In 1957, the firm developed the widely successful \"Leaving now for Trenton, Philadelphia and Cucamonga!\" campaign for Greyhound Bus with the tagline \"Go Greyhound and leave the driving to us.\" and won the Ford Motor Company, Procter & Gamble and Chock Full o' Nuts accounts. In 1961, billings reached $59 million and Valenstein became chairman of the executive committee; Fatt was named chairman and Strauss its president. As president, Strauss presided over the national and international expansion of the agency. In 1961, the firm opened an office in Los Angeles; and in 1962 the firm opened an office in London and in 1963 in Japan. In 1964, billings reached $100 million. In 1965, the firm went public trading on the Nasdaq exchange and the firm also expanded into the use of psychographics (the analysis of consumer lifestyles). In 1966, Grey became one of the top 10 agencies in the U.S. In 1967, Strauss was named CEO and chairman; and Edward H. Meyer, president. In 1969, Grey won the Kraft General Foods' Post cereal account and sales reached $230 million. In 1969, Strauss was named chairman and in 1970, Meyer was named CEO. In the 1970s, Grey was responsible for several popular ad campaigns including \"Star Wars\" toys for Kenner, aspirin and toothpaste for SmithKline, and Stove Top Stuffing for Kraft General Foods. In 1973, Strauss died of a heart attack.\n\nStrauss served as a director of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the National Outdoor Advertising Bureau, and Better Business Bureau of New York.\n\nStrauss was married to Sarann Eisner; they had two children, Richard Burnham and Barbara McIntire. Strauss died on March 17, 1973 of a heart attack at his home in St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands.\n"}
{"id": "33271681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33271681", "title": "Holder (law)", "text": "Holder (law)\n\nHolder is a term used to any person that has in his custody a promissory note, bill of exchange\nor cheque. It should be entitled in his own name.\nHolder means a person entitled in his own name to the possession of a negotiable instrument and to receive the amount due on it.\n"}
{"id": "28678916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28678916", "title": "Jack Pitney", "text": "Jack Pitney\n\nWilliam Jackson \"Jack\" Pitney (January 5, 1963 – August 26, 2010) was an American marketing executive with BMW as vice president of marketing, where he played a major role in convincing company leadership to go ahead with distribution of the MINI in the United States, despite concerns that car buyers there would not buy cars that small given the popularity of sport utility vehicles.\n\nPitney was born in 1963 in Stamford, Connecticut and earned his undergraduate degree from Occidental College, where he majored in political science. He worked in the public relations and advertising field, and was hired in 1988 by the GCI Group, where he worked on a 1990 advertising campaign for Infiniti. At Hill & Knowlton he worked on the Mazda Motor of America account and later was hired by Mazda as its manager of corporate communications.\n\nPitney was hired by BMW of North America in 1995 as head of corporate communications, where he developed advertising campaigns for its high-performance vehicles. BMW developed the Mini in 2001 as a successor to the original Mini, which enjoyed a cult following in the 1960s. BMW executives were reluctant to market the car in the United States, presuming that car buyers in that country would be unlikely to purchase a car so small given the widespread prevalence of SUVs. In 2001, Pitney was named as general manager for the Mini line. The company agreed to market the car in the U.S. with very low expectations, but Pitney developed a marketing campaign together with Crispin Porter + Bogusky that used viral marketing on the web and featured billboards promoting the car under the catchphrases \"The SUV Backlash Officially Starts Now\" and \"0% Body Fat\". By the March 2002 American launch date for the Mini, 53% of people were aware of the brand and 50,000 people had expressed potential interest on the company's website in buying the car.\n\nThe Mini was positioned at a higher price than many comparably sized vehicles, but was promoted as a car that could be accessorized by its owners. Recognized as one of the few car division heads to come from the advertising side of the business \"Automotive News\" selected Pitney as one of its two Marketers of the Year in January 2003. Annual sales reached 30,000, exceeding initial projections by 50%. The success of the MINI earned Pitney a promotion to Vice President of Marketing, where he was responsible for multiple launches including the new BMW 1 Series, the BMW X6, the BMW 7 Series, the BMW Z4, BMW diesel engines, and the BMW 5 Series.\n\nAs of September 1, 2010, he was supposed to assume the post of Vice President of BMW's Eastern region, where he would have overseen the 93 dealerships on the East Coast of the United States, including the many centered in the New York metropolitan area.\n\nA resident of Ridgewood, New Jersey, Pitney died at age 47 on August 26, 2010, when the tractor he was riding while on vacation at his farm in Durham, New York overturned on him while pulling out a tree stump. He was found by officers of the Greene County, New York Sheriff's Department trapped underneath the tractor and was pronounced dead at the scene. He was survived by his wife and five children.\n"}
{"id": "26276416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26276416", "title": "Johan Cruyff", "text": "Johan Cruyff\n\nHendrik Johannes Cruijff (, anglicised to Cruyff; 25 April 1947 – 24 March 2016) was a Dutch professional football player and coach. As a player, he won the Ballon d'Or three times, in 1971, 1973, and 1974. Cruyff was the most famous exponent of the football philosophy known as Total Football explored by Rinus Michels, and is widely regarded as one of the greatest players in football history. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Dutch football rose from obscurity to become a powerhouse in the sport. Cruyff led the Netherlands to the final of the 1974 FIFA World Cup and received the Golden Ball as player of the tournament. At the 1974 finals, he executed a feint that subsequently was named after him, the \"Cruyff Turn\", a move widely replicated in the modern game. Wearing the number 14 jersey, he set a trend for wearing shirt numbers outside the usual starting line-up numbers of one to eleven.\n\nAt club level, Cruyff started his career at Ajax, where he won eight Eredivisie titles, three European Cups and one Intercontinental Cup. In 1973, he moved to Barcelona for a world record transfer fee, winning La Liga in his first season and was named European Footballer of the Year. After retiring from playing in 1984, Cruyff became highly successful as manager of Ajax and later Barcelona; he remained an influential advisor to both clubs. His son Jordi also played football professionally.\n\nIn 1999, Cruyff was voted European Player of the Century in an election held by the International Federation of Football History & Statistics, and came second behind Pelé in their World Player of the Century poll. He came third in a vote organised by the French magazine \"France Football\" consulting their former Ballon d'Or winners to elect their Football Player of the Century. He was chosen on the World Team of the 20th Century in 1998, the FIFA World Cup Dream Team in 2002, and in 2004 was named in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players.\n\nConsidered to be one of the most influential figures in football history, Cruyff's style of play and his football philosophy has influenced managers and players, including the likes of Arrigo Sacchi, Sir Alex Ferguson, Arsène Wenger, Pep Guardiola, Frank Rijkaard, Michael Laudrup, Eric Cantona and Xavi. Ajax and Barcelona are among the clubs that have developed youth academies based on Cruyff's coaching methods. His coaching philosophy helped lay the foundations for the revival of Ajax's international successes in the 1990s. Spanish football's successes at both club and international level during the years 2008 to 2012 have been cited by many as evidence of Cruyff's impact on contemporary football.\n\nHendrik Johannes \"Johan\" Cruijff was born on 25 April 1947 in Amsterdam, on a street five minutes away from Ajax's stadium, his first football club. Johan was the second son of Hermanus Cornelis Cruijff and Petronella Bernarda Draaijer, from a humble, working-class background in east Amsterdam. Cruyff, encouraged by his influential football-loving father and his close proximity in Akkerstraat to the De Meer Stadium, played football with his schoolmates and older brother, Henny, whenever he could, and idolised the prolific Dutch dribbler, Faas Wilkes.\n\nIn 1959, Cruyff's father died from a heart attack. His father's death had a major impact on his mentality. As Cruyff recalled, in celebration of his 50th birthday, \"My father died when I was just 12 and he was 45. From that day the feeling crept stronger over me that I would die at the same age and, when I had serious heart problems when I reached 45, I thought: 'This is it.' Only medical science, which was not available to help my father, kept me alive.\" Viewing a potential football career as a way of paying tribute to his father, the death inspired the strong-willed Cruyff, who also frequently visited the burial site at Oosterbegraafplaats. His mother began working at Ajax as a cleaner, deciding that she could no longer carry on at the grocer without her husband, and in the future, this made Cruyff near-obsessed with financial security but also gave him an appreciation for player aids. His mother soon met her second husband, Henk Angel, a field hand at Ajax who proved a key influence in Cruyff's life.\n\nCruyff joined the Ajax youth system on his tenth birthday. Cruyff and his friends would frequent a \"playground\" in their neighbourhood and Ajax youth coach Jany van der Veen, who lived close by, noticed Cruyff's talent and decided to offer him a place at Ajax without a formal trial. He showed talent both on the pitcher's mound and behind the plate, as a catcher, before having to leave the club's baseball section at age 15 to focus on football. He made his first team debut on 15 November 1964 in the Eredivisie, against GVAV, scoring the only goal for Ajax in a 3–1 defeat. That year, Ajax finished in their lowest position since the establishment of professional football, in 13th. Cruyff really started to make an impression in the 1965–66 season and established himself as a regular first team player after scoring two goals against DWS in the Olympic stadium on 24 October 1965 in a 2–0 victory. In the seven games that winter, he scored eight times and in March 1966 scored the first three goals in a league game against Telstar in a 6–2 win. Four days later, in a cup game against Veendam in a 7–0 win, he scored four goals. In total that season, Cruyff scored 25 goals in 23 games, and Ajax won the league championship.\n\nIn the 1966–67 season, Ajax again won the league championship, and also won the KNVB Cup, for Cruyff's first \"double\". Cruyff ended the season as the leading goalscorer in the Eredivisie with 33. Cruyff won the league for the third successive year in the 1967–68 season. He was also named Dutch footballer of the year for the second successive time, a feat he repeated in 1969. On 28 May 1969, Cruyff played in his first European Cup final against Milan, but the Italians won 4–1.\n\nIn the 1969–70 season, Cruyff won his second league and cup \"double\"; at the beginning of the 1970–71 season, he suffered a groin injury. He made his comeback on 30 October 1970 against PSV, and rather than wear his usual number 9, which was in use by Gerrie Mühren, he instead used number 14. Ajax won 1–0. Although it was very uncommon in those days for the starters of a game not to play with numbers 1 to 11, from that moment onwards, Cruyff wore number 14, even with the Dutch national team. There was a documentary on Cruyff, \"Nummer 14 Johan Cruyff\" and in the Netherlands there is a magazine by Voetbal International, \"Nummer 14\".\n\nIn a league game against AZ '67 on 29 November 1970, Cruyff scored six goals in an 8–1 victory. After winning a replayed KNVB Cup final against Sparta Rotterdam by a score of 2–1, Ajax won in Europe for the first time. On 2 June 1971, in London, Ajax won the European Cup by defeating Panathinaikos 2–0. He signed a seven-year contract at Ajax. At the end of the season, he was named the Dutch and European Footballer of the Year for 1971.\n\nIn 1972, Ajax won a second European Cup, beating Inter Milan 2–0 in the final, with Cruyff scoring both goals. This victory prompted Dutch newspapers to announce the demise of the Italian style of defensive football in the face of Total Football. \"Soccer: The Ultimate Encyclopaedia\" says, \"Single-handed, Cruyff not only pulled Internazionale of Italy apart in the 1972 European Cup Final, but scored both goals in Ajax's 2–0 win.\" Cruyff also scored in the 3–2 victory over ADO Den Haag in the KNVB Cup final. In the league, Cruyff was the top scorer with 25 goals as Ajax became champions. Ajax won the Intercontinental Cup, beating Argentina's Independiente 1–1 in the first game followed by 3–0, and then in January 1973, they won the European Super Cup by beating Rangers 3–1 away and 3–2 in Amsterdam. Cruyff's only own goal came on 20 August 1972 against FC Amsterdam. A week later, against Go Ahead Eagles in a 6–0 win, Cruyff scored four times for Ajax. The 1972–73 season was concluded with another league championship victory and a third successive European Cup with a 1–0 win over Juventus in the final, with the \"Encyclopedia\" stating Cruyff \"inspired one of the greatest 20-minute spells of football ever seen\".\n\nIn mid-1973, Cruyff was sold to Barcelona for 6 million guilders (approx. US$2 million, c. 1973) in a world record transfer fee. On 19 August 1973, he played his last match for Ajax where they defeated FC Amsterdam 6–1, the second match of the 1973–74 season.\n\nCruyff endeared himself to the Barcelona fans when he chose a Catalan name, Jordi, for his son. He helped the club win La Liga for the first time since 1960, defeating their deadliest rivals Real Madrid 5–0 at their home of the Santiago Bernabéu. Thousands of Barcelona fans who watched the match on television poured out of their homes to join in street celebrations. A \"New York Times\" journalist wrote that Cruyff had done more for the spirit of the Catalan people in 90 minutes than many politicians in years of struggle. Football historian Jimmy Burns stated, \"with Cruyff, the team felt they couldn’t lose\". He gave them speed, flexibility and a sense of themselves. In 1974 Cruyff was crowned European Footballer of the Year.\n\nDuring his time at Barcelona, Cruyff scored one of his most famous goals, \"The 'Phantom' Goal\". In a game against Atlético Madrid, Cruyff leapt into the air, twisted his body so he was facing away from the goal, and kicked the ball past Miguel Reina in the Atlético goal with his right heel (the ball was at about neck height and had already travelled wide of the far post). The goal was featured in the documentary ', in which fans of Cruyff attempted to recreate that moment. The goal has been dubbed ' (Cruyff's impossible goal). In 1978, Barcelona defeated Las Palmas 3–1, to win the Copa del Rey. Cruyff played two games with Paris Saint-Germain in 1975 during the Paris tournament. He had only agreed because he was a fan of designer Daniel Hechter, who was then president of PSG.\n\nCruyff nearly retired in 1978. But after losing most of his money in a series of ill-advised investments — including, to the merriment of the Dutch press, a pig farm — that were counseled by a scam artist who had possibly seduced his wife, Cruyff and his family came to the United States. As he recalled, \"I had lost millions in pig-farming and that was the reason I decided to become a footballer again.\" Cruyff insisted that his decision to resume his playing career in the United States was pivotal in his career. \"It was wrong, a mistake, to quit playing at 31 with the unique talent I possessed\", and adding that \"Starting from zero in America, many miles away from my past, was one of the best decisions I made. There I learned how to develop my uncontrolled ambitions, to think as a coach and about sponsorship.\"\n\nAt the age of 32, Cruyff signed a lucrative deal with the Los Angeles Aztecs of the North American Soccer League (NASL). He had previously been rumoured to be joining the New York Cosmos but the deal did not materialize; he played a few exhibition games for the Cosmos. He stayed at the Aztecs for only one season, and was voted NASL Player of the Year. The following season, he moved to play for the Washington Diplomats. He played the whole 1980 campaign for the Diplomats, even as the team was facing dire financial trouble. In May 1981, Cruyff played as a guest player for Milan in a tournament, but was injured. As a result, he missed the beginning of the 1981 NASL soccer season, which ultimately led to Cruyff choosing to leave the team. Cruyff also loathed playing on artificial surfaces, which were common in the NASL at the time.\n\nIn January 1981, Cruyff played three friendly matches for FC Dordrecht. Also in January 1981, manager Jock Wallace of English club Leicester City made an attempt to sign Cruyff, and despite negotiations lasting three weeks, in which Cruyff expressed his desire to play for the club, a deal could not be reached. Cruyff instead chose to sign with Spanish Segunda División side Levante.\n\nIn March 1981, Cruyff took the field for the first time for Levante. Injuries and disagreements with the administration of the club, however, blighted his spell in the Segunda División, and he only made ten appearances, scoring two goals. Having failed to secure promotion to the first division, a contract with Levante fell through.\n\nAfter his spell in the U.S. and a short-lived stay in Spain, Cruyff returned to play in his homeland, rejoining Ajax on 30 November 1980 as \"technical advisor\" to trainer Leo Beenhakker, Ajax being eighth in the league table at the time after 13 games played. After 34 games, however, Ajax finished the 1980–81 season in second. In December 1981, Cruyff signed a contract extension with Ajax.\n\nIn the 1981–82 and 1982–83 seasons, Ajax, along with Cruyff, became league champions. In 1982–83, Ajax won the Dutch Cup (KNVB-Beker). In 1982, he scored a famous goal against Helmond Sport. While playing for Ajax, Cruyff scored a penalty the same way Rik Coppens had done it 25 years earlier. He put the ball down as for a routine penalty kick, but instead of shooting at goal, Cruyff nudged the ball sideways to teammate Jesper Olsen, who in return passed it back to Cruyff to tap the ball into the empty net, as Otto Versfeld, the Helmond goalkeeper, looked on.\nAt the end of the 1982–83 season, Ajax decided not to offer Cruyff a new contract. This angered Cruyff, who responded by signing for Ajax's archrivals Feyenoord. Cruyff's season at Feyenoord was a successful one in which the club won the Eredivisie for the first time in a decade, part of a league and KNVB Cup double. The team's success was due to the performances of Cruyff along with Ruud Gullit and Peter Houtman.\n\nDespite his relatively advanced age, Cruyff played all league matches that season except for one. Because of his performance on the field, he was voted as Dutch Footballer of the Year for the fifth time. At the end of the season, the veteran announced his final retirement. He ended his Eredivisie playing career on 13 May 1984 with a goal against PEC Zwolle. Cruyff played his last game in Saudi Arabia against Al-Ahli, bringing Feyenoord back into the game with a goal and an assist.\n\nAs a Dutch international, Cruyff played 48 matches, scoring 33 goals. The national team never lost a match in which Cruyff scored. On 7 September 1966, he made his official debut for the Netherlands in the UEFA Euro 1968 qualifier against Hungary, scoring in the 2–2 draw. In his second match, a friendly against Czechoslovakia, Cruyff was the first Dutch international to receive a red card. The Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB) banned him from Ajax games but not internationals.\n\nAccusations of Cruyff's \"aloofness\" were not rebuffed by his habit of wearing a shirt with only two black stripes along the sleeves, as opposed to Adidas' usual design feature of three, worn by all the other Dutch players. Cruyff had a separate sponsorship deal with Puma. From 1970 onwards, he wore the number 14 jersey for the Netherlands, setting a trend for wearing shirt numbers outside the usual starting line-up numbers of 1 to 11.\n\nCruyff led the Netherlands to a runners-up medal in the 1974 World Cup and was named player of the tournament. Thanks to his team's mastery of Total Football, they coasted all the way to the final, knocking out Argentina (4–0), East Germany (2–0) and Brazil (2–0) along the way. Cruyff scored twice against Argentina in one of his team's most dominating performances, then he scored the second goal against Brazil to knock out the defending champions.\n\nThe Netherlands faced hosts West Germany in the final. Cruyff kicked off and the ball was passed around the \"Oranje\" team 15 times before returning to Cruyff, who then went on a run past Berti Vogts and ended when he was fouled by Uli Hoeneß inside the box. Teammate Johan Neeskens scored from the spot kick to give the Netherlands a 1–0 lead and the Germans had not yet touched the ball. During the latter half of the final, his influence was stifled by the effective marking of Vogts, while Franz Beckenbauer, Uli Hoeneß and Wolfgang Overath dominated the midfield as West Germany came back to win 2–1.\n\nIn an interview published in the 50th anniversary issue of \"World Soccer\" magazine, the captain of the Brazilian team that won the 1970 World Cup, Carlos Alberto, went on to say, \"The only team I've seen that did things differently was Holland at the 1974 World Cup in Germany. Since then everything looks more or less the same to me... Their 'carousel' style of play was amazing to watch and marvellous for the game.\"\n\nWith regards to role models, Brazilian football manager and former player Telê Santana has mentioned in one interview that he had no idols, though, \"My greatest satisfaction would be to manage a team such as 1974 Holland. It was a team where you could pick [Johan] Cruyff and place him on the right wing. If I had to put him in the left-wing, he would still play [the same]. I could choose Neeskens, who played both to the right and to the left of the midfield. Thus, everyone played in any position.\"\n\nCruyff retired from international football in October 1977, having helped the national team qualify for the upcoming World Cup. Without him, the Netherlands finished runners-up in the World Cup again. Initially, the reason given for missing the 1978 World Cup were political reasons given a military dictatorship was in power in Argentina at that time. In 2008, Cruyff stated to the journalist Antoni Bassas in Catalunya Ràdio that he and his family were subject to a kidnap attempt in Barcelona a year before the tournament, and that this had caused his retirement. \"To play a World Cup you have to be 200% okay, there are moments when there are other values in life.\"\n\nAfter retiring from playing, Cruyff followed in the footsteps of his mentor Rinus Michels, coaching a young Ajax side to victory in the European Cup Winners' Cup in 1987 (1–0). In May and June 1985, Cruyff returned to Ajax again. In the 1985–86 season, the league title was lost to Jan Reker's PSV, despite Ajax having a goal difference of +85 (120 goals for, 35 goals against). In the 1985–86 and 1986–87 seasons, Ajax won the KNVB Cup.\nIt was during this period as manager that Cruyff was able to implement his favoured team formation—three mobile defenders; plus one more covering space – becoming, in effect, a defensive midfielder (from Rijkaard, Blind, Silooy, Verlaat, Larsson, Spelbos), two \"controlling\" midfielders (from Rijkaard, Scholten, Winter, Wouters, Mühren, Witschge) with responsibilities to feed the attack-minded players, one second striker (Bosman, Scholten), two touchline-hugging wingers (from Bergkamp, van't Schip, De Wit, Witschge) and one versatile centre forward (from Van Basten, Meijer, Bosman). So successful was this system that Ajax won the Champions League in 1995 playing Cruyff's system – a tribute to Cruyff's legacy as Ajax coach.\n\nAfter having appeared for the club as a player, Cruyff returned to Barcelona for the 1988–89 season, this time to take up his new role as coach of the first team. Before returning to Barcelona, however, Cruyff had already built up plenty of experience as a coach/manager. In the Netherlands, he was strongly praised for the attacking flair he imposed on his sides and also for his commendable work as talent spotter, discovering, for example Marco van Basten and Dennis Bergkamp. With Barça, Cruyff started work with a completely remodelled side after the previous season's scandal, known as the \"Hesperia Mutiny\". His second in command was Carles Rexach, who had already been at the club for a year. Cruyff immediately had his Barça charges playing his attractive brand of football and the results did not take long in coming. But, this did not just happen with the first team, the youth teams also displayed that same attacking style, something that made it easier for reserve players to make the switch to first team football. As Sid Lowe noted, when Cruyff took over as manager, Barcelona of the late 1980s \"were a club in debt and in crisis. Results were bad, performances were worse, the atmosphere terrible and attendances down, while even the relationship between the president of the club Josep Lluís Núñez and the president of the Spanish autonomous community they represented, Jordi Pujol, had deteriorated. It did not work immediately but he [Cruyff] recovered the identity he had embodied as a player. He took risks, and rewards followed.\"\n\nAt Barça, Cruyff brought in players such as Pep Guardiola, José Mari Bakero, Txiki Begiristain, Andoni Goikoetxea, Ronald Koeman, Michael Laudrup, Romário, Gheorghe Hagi and Hristo Stoichkov. With Cruyff, Barça experienced a glorious era. In the space of five years (1989–1994), he led the club to four European finals (two European Cup Winners' Cup finals and two European Cup/UEFA Champions League finals). Cruyff's track record includes one European Cup, four Liga championships, one Cup Winners' Cup, one Copa del Rey and four Supercopa de España.\n\nUnder Cruyff, Barça's \"Dream Team\" won four La Liga titles in a row (1991–1994), and beat Sampdoria in both the 1989 European Cup Winners' Cup final and the 1992 European Cup final at Wembley Stadium.\nOn 10 May 1989, goals from Salinas and López Rekarte led Barcelona to a 2–0 victory against Sampdoria. Over 25,000 supporters travelled to Switzerland to support the team. Cruyff's new Barça took home the club's third Cup Winners' Cup.\nThe European Cup dream became a reality on 20 May 1992 at Wembley in London, when Barça beat Sampdoria. Cruyff's last instruction to his players before they stepped onto the pitch was \"Salid y disfrutad\" (Spanish for \"Go out and enjoy it\" or \"Go out there and enjoy yourselves\"). The match went to extra time after a scoreless draw. In the 111th minute, Ronald Koeman's brilliant free kick clinched Barça's first European Cup victory. Twenty-five thousand supporters accompanied the team to Wembley, while one million turned out on the streets of Barcelona to welcome the European champions home. Victories under Cruyff include a 5–0 La Liga win over Real Madrid in \"El Clásico\" at the Camp Nou, as well as a 4–0 win against Manchester United in the Champions League. Barcelona won a Copa del Rey in 1990, the European Super Cup in 1992 and three Supercopa de España, as well as finishing runner-up to Manchester United and Milan in two European finals.\n\nThe legacy that Cruyff gave Barcelona, however, was about more than just trophies and records, as he gave Barça a winning mentality and footballing identity/ideology that runs through the club till this day. As Barcelona manager, he laid systemic foundations for a prominent school of football: \"Barçajax school\" or \"Barça-Ajax school\", as it has been termed by many. The predominant style of play, now known as \"tiki-taka\" or \"tiqui-taca\", had been transferred and improved from Ajax to Barça. It was that which has sustained Barcelona since the days of Vic Buckingham, Rinus Michels and Cruyff (as player) in the early 1970s: they were the ideas of Ajax; Total Football, a predominant belief in possession-oriented football with an attack-minded 3–4–3/4–3–3 team formation, rooted in a high offside line, pressing and the interchange of players on the field. When Cruyff became Barcelona's manager in 1988, he reinforced this footballing philosophy. He was also responsible for introducing \"rondos\" (a circle of players pass the ball to each other, while one in the centre tries to catch it) into the team's training sessions. About Cruyff's lasting influence on Barça's youth academy \"La Masia\", Guillem Balagué noted, \"Cruyff demanded changes at the academy and La Masía began regularly producing the players he wanted as well as providing the kids with a sound education, dual ambitions of the Dutch coach and the club. \"The player who has come through La Masía has something different from the rest, it's a plus that only comes from having competed in a Barcelona shirt from the time you were a child\", says Guardiola. He is talking not only about the understanding of the game and their ability, but about human qualities. The players who go through La Masía are taught to behave with civility and humility. The theory being that, not only is it pleasant to be unassuming, but also if you are humble, you are capable of learning – and the capacity to learn is the capacity to improve. If you aren't capable of learning you won't improve. Since his arrival, Johan had tried and succeeded in convincing the club to train all the junior teams in the same way as the first eleven – and to favour talent over physique.\"\n\nCruyff used to smoke 20 cigarettes a day prior to undergoing double heart bypass surgery in 1991 while he was the coach of Barcelona, after which he gave up smoking. He also led the anti-smoking campaign developed by the Health Department of the Catalan autonomous government. Cruyff juggled a cigarette pack 16 times in an anti-tobacco video sponsored by the Catalan Department of Health.\n\nWith 11 trophies, Cruyff was Barcelona's most successful manager, but has since been surpassed by his former player Pep Guardiola, who achieved 15. Cruyff was also the club's longest-serving manager. In his final two seasons, however, he failed to win any trophies, falling-out with chairman Josep Lluís Núñez, who ultimately sacked him as Barcelona coach.\n\nWhile still at Barcelona, Cruyff was in negotiations with the KNVB to manage the national team for the 1994 World Cup finals, but talks broke off at the last minute.\n\nAs well as representing Catalonia on the pitch in 1976, Cruyff also managed the Catalonia national team from 2009 to 2013, leading the team to a victory over Argentina in his debut match.\n\nOn 2 November 2009, Cruyff was named as manager of the Catalonia national team. It was his first managing job for 13 years. On 22 December 2009, they played a friendly game against Argentina, which ended in a Catalonia win, 4–2 at Camp Nou. On 28 December 2010, Catalonia played a friendly against Honduras winning 4–0 at Estadi Olímpic Lluís Companys. On 30 December 2011, Catalonia played Tunisia in a goalless draw at the Lluís Companys. In their last game under Cruyff, on 2 January 2013, Catalonia drew with Nigeria at the Cornellà-El Prat, 1–1.\n\nLater in his reign as Barcelona manager, Cruyff suffered a heart attack and was advised to quit coaching by his doctors. He left in 1996, and never took another top job, but his influence did not end there. Though he vowed never to coach again, he remained a vocal football critic and analyst. Cruyff's open support helped candidate Joan Laporta to victory in Barcelona's presidential elections. He continued to be an adviser for him, although he held no official post at Barcelona. Back in an advisory capacity alongside Joan Laporta, he recommended the appointment of Frank Rijkaard in 2003. Again Barca was successful, winning back-to-back league titles and another Champions League crown in 2006.\n\nAfter two relatively disappointing campaigns, Laporta survived a censure motion and an overhaul was needed. In summer 2008, Rijkaard left the club and even though José Mourinho was pushing for the job at Camp Nou, Cruyff chose Pep Guardiola. Many were quick to point to Guardiola's lack of coaching experience, but Cruyff said, \"The biggest test for a coach at a team like Barça is the strength to make decisions and the ability to talk to the press, because they don't help and you have to manage that. After that, it's easy for those who know football. But there aren't many who know.\"\n\nOn 26 March 2010, Cruyff was named honorary president of Barcelona in recognition of his contributions to the club as both a player and manager. In July 2010, however, he was stripped of this title by new president Sandro Rosell.\n\nOn 20 February 2008, in the wake of a major research on the ten-year-mismanagement, it was announced that Cruyff would be the new technical director at his boyhood club Ajax, his fourth stint with the Amsterdam club. Cruyff announced in March that he was pulling out of his planned return to Ajax because of \"professional difference of opinion\" between him and Ajax's new manager, Marco van Basten. Van Basten said that Cruyff's plans were \"going too fast\", because he was \"not so dissatisfied with how things are going now\".\n\nOn 11 February 2011, Cruyff returned to Ajax on an advisory basis after agreeing to become a member of one of three \"sounding board groups\". After presenting his plans to reform the club, in particular to rejuvenate the youth academy, the Ajax board of advisors and the CEO resigned on 30 March 2011. On 6 June 2011, he was appointed to the new Ajax board of advisors to implent his reform plans.\n\nThe Ajax advisory board made a verbal agreement with Louis van Gaal to appoint him as the new CEO, without consulting Cruyff. Cruyff, a fellow board member, took Ajax to court in an attempt to block the appointment. The court overturned the appointment on the grounds that Cruyff had been \"deliberately not consulted\". Cruyff was supported by many Ajax supporters and ex-Ajax players and current staff members, including Dennis Bergkamp, Wim Jonk, Marc Overmars, Frank de Boer and Edwin van der Sar. Due to the ongoing quarrel within the advisory board, Cruyff resigned on 10 April 2012, with Ajax stating that Cruyff will \"remain involved with the implementation of his football vision within the club\".\n\nCruyff became a technical advisor for Mexican club Guadalajara in February 2012. Jorge Vergara, the owner of the club, made him the team's sport consultant in response to the losing record Guadalajara sustained in the last few months of 2011. Although signed to a three-year contract, Cruyff's contract was terminated December 2012 after just nine months with the club. Guadalajara said that other members of the team's coaching staff would likely not be terminated.\n\nIn September 2009, Cruyff and Ruud Gullit were unveiled as ambassadors for the Belgium–Netherlands joint bid for the World Cup finals in 2018 or 2022 at the official launch in Eindhoven.\n\nThroughout his career, Cruyff became synonymous with the playing style of \"Total Football\". It is a system where a player who moves out of his position is replaced by another from his team, thus allowing the team to retain their intended organizational structure. In this fluid system, no footballer is fixed in their intended outfield role. The style was honed by Ajax coach Rinus Michels, with Cruyff serving as the on-field \"conductor\". Space and the creation of it were central to the concept of Total Football. Ajax defender Barry Hulshoff, who played with Cruyff, explained how the team that won the European Cup in 1971, 1972 and 1973 worked it to their advantage: \"We discussed space the whole time. Cruyff always talked about where people should run, where they should stand, where they should not be moving. It was all about making space and coming into space. It is a kind of architecture on the field. We always talked about speed of ball, space and time. Where is the most space? Where is the player who has the most time? That is where we have to play the ball. Every player had to understand the whole geometry of the whole pitch and the system as a whole.\"\n\nThe team orchestrator, Cruyff was a creative playmaker with a gift for timing passes. Nominally, he played centre-forward in this system and was a prolific goalscorer, but dropped deep to confuse his markers or moved to the wing to great effect. In the 1974 World Cup final between West Germany and the Netherlands, from the kick-off, the Dutch monopolised ball possession. At the start of the move that led to the opening goal, Cruyff picked up the ball in his own half. The Dutch captain, who was nominally a centre-forward, was the deepest Dutch outfield player, and after a series of passes, he set off on a run from the centre circle into the West German box. Unable to stop Cruyff by fair means, Uli Hoeness brought Cruyff down, conceding a penalty scored by Johan Neeskens. The first German to thus touch the ball was goalkeeper Sepp Maier picking the ball out of his own net. Due to the way Cruyff played the game, he is still referred to as \"the total footballer\". Former French player Eric Cantona states, \"I loved the Dutch in the '70s, they excited me and Cruyff was the best. He was at the heart of a revolution with his football. Ajax changed football and he was the leader of it all. If he wanted he could be the best player in any position on the pitch.\"\n\nCruyff was known for his technical ability, speed, acceleration, dribbling and vision, possessing an awareness of his teammates' positions as an attack unfolded. Despite his relatively unimpressive stature and strength, Cruyff's tactical brain and reading of the game were exceptional. \"Football consists of different elements: technique, tactics and stamina\", he told the journalists Henk van Dorp and Frits Barend, in one of the interviews collected in their book \"Ajax, Barcelona, Cruyff\". \"There are some people who might have better technique than me, and some may be fitter than me, but the main thing is tactics. With most players, tactics are missing. You can divide tactics into insight, trust and daring. In the tactical area, I think I just have more than most other players.\" On the concept of technique in football, Cruyff once said: \"Technique is not being able to juggle a ball 1,000 times. Anyone can do that by practising. Then you can work in the circus. Technique is passing the ball with one touch, with the right speed, at the right foot of your team mate.\" As Van Basten noted, \"Johan is so technically perfect that even as a boy he stopped being interested in that aspect of the game. He could do everything when he was 20. That's why he's been very interested in tactics since he was very young. He sees football situations so clearly that he was always the one to decide how the game should be played.\" In 1997, Dutch journalist Hubert Smeets wrote, \"Cruyff was the first player who understood that he was an artist, and the first who was able and willing to collectivise the art of sports.\" Sports writer David Miller believed that Cruyff was superior to any previous player in his ability to extract the most from others. He dubbed him \"Pythagoras in boots\" for the complexity and precision of his passes and wrote, \"Few have been able to exact, both physically and mentally, such mesmeric control on a match from one penalty area to another.\"\n\nAccording to England's 1966 World Cup-winning striker Bobby Charlton, \"He [Cruyff] was pretty intelligent, too! A real football brain. He had superb control, he was inventive and he could perform magic with a ball to get himself out of trouble instinctively. He got a lot of goals, and although he was so skilful, he didn't show off – he played to the strengths of the players around him. This side would really keep hold of the ball.\"\n\nCruyff always considered aesthetic and moral aspects of the game; it is not just about winning, but about winning with \"right\" style/way. He also always spoke highly of entertaining value of the game. The beautiful game, for him, is about as much the entertainment and joy as the results. In thinking of Cruyff, the victory is truly meaningful when it can fully capture the minds and hearts of competitors and spectators. As he once noted, \"Quality without results is pointless. Results without quality is boring,\". For Cruyff and the \"Cruyffistas\" (Cruyff's devout followers), to choose a \"right\" style of play to win is even more important than winning itself. Cruyff always believed in simplicity. He sees simplicity and beauty as inseparable. \"Simple football is the most beautiful. But playing simple football is the hardest thing\", as Cruyff once summed up his fundamental philosophy. \"How often do you see a pass of forty meters when twenty meters is enough?... To play well, you need good players, but a good player almost always has the problem of a lack of efficiency. He always wants to do things prettier than strictly necessary.\" Cruyff also perfected a feint now known as the \"Cruyff Turn\". The feint is an example of the simplicity in Cruyff's football philosophy. It was neither carried out to embarrass the opponent nor to excite the watching crowd, but because Cruyff estimated that it was the simplest method (in terms of effort and risk versus expected result) to beat his opponent. Cruyff looked to pass or cross the ball, then, instead of kicking it, he dragged the ball behind his planted foot with the inside of his other foot, turned through 180 degrees, and accelerated away. As Swedish defender Jan Olsson (a \"victim\" of the Cruyff Turn at the 1974 World Cup) recalled, \"I played 18 years in top football and seventeen times for Sweden but that moment against Cruyff was the proudest moment of my career. I thought I'd win the ball for sure, but he tricked me. I was not humiliated. I had no chance. Cruyff was a genius.\" With its high effectiveness and unpredictability, the Cruyff Turn remains one of the most commonly used dribbling moves in modern football.\n\nLike Dutch football in general until the mid-1960s, Cruyff's early playing career was considerably influenced by coaching philosophy of British/English coaches such as Vic Buckingham. However, his footballing philosophy shares more similar aspects to free-flowing style of South American football (Brazilian football in particular) than traditional British/Anglo-Saxon school of football (with distinctively direct, aggressive, heavily athletic, muscular, physical elements in coaching and playing style). However, as Tim Vickery has pointed out, at the 1974 World Cup Cruyff's Netherlands side \"rendered South American football obsolete\", with the Dutch comfortably defeating Uruguay, Argentina and Brazil on their way to the final: their willingness to press their opponents denied the South American nations' playmakers the time on the ball they were used to having. The effect of this encounter with Total Football on Argentinian and Brazilian football was significant: in Argentina, César Luis Menotti, who became coach of the national team after the 1974 World Cup exit, sought to combine the traditional Argentine passing game with a faster tempo of play, emphasising relatively small but hard-working players like Osvaldo Ardiles in leading the national team to victory on home soil in the 1978 World Cup. Whilst Brazil attempted to implement a Total Football philosophy without success in 1978 under coach Cláudio Coutinho before reverting to their traditional style in 1982, Brazilian coaches eventually came to believe that they needed to catch up to the Europeans in terms of their physical development, with the gap in physical size being closed by the turn of the millennium: the nature of Brazil's passing game also changed, coming to emphasise quick counter-attacks down the flanks rather than long passing sequences.\n\nThe mind-body duality always plays an important role in his footballing philosophy. In Cruyff's words, quoted in Dennis Bergkamp's autobiography \"Stillness and Speed: My Story\", \"...Because you play football with your head, and your legs are there to help you. If you don't use your head, using your feet won't be sufficient. Why does a player have to chase the ball? Because he started running too late. You have to pay attention, use your brain and find the right position. If you get to the ball late, it means you chose the wrong position. Bergkamp was never late.\" For Cruyff, football (the so-called beautiful game) is much an artistic-oriented mind-body game instead of an athletic-oriented physical competition. As he put it, \"Every trainer talks about movement, about running a lot. I say don't run so much. Football is a game you play with your brain. You have to be in the right place at the right moment, not too early, not too late.\" The creativity is always the key element in his footballing philosophy, both as a player and as a manager. Cruyff once compared his more intuitive and individualistic approach with Louis van Gaal's more mechanized and rigid coaching style, \"Van Gaal has a good vision on football. But it's not mine. He wants to gel winning teams and has a militaristic way of working with his tactics. I don't. I want individuals to think for themselves and take the decision on the pitch that is best for the situation... I don't have anything against computers, but you judge football players intuitively and with your heart. On the basis of the criteria which are now in use at Ajax [recommended by Van Gaal] I would have failed the test. When I was 15, I could barely kick the ball 15 metres with my left and with the right maybe 20 metres. I would not have been able to take a corner. Besides, I was physically weak and relatively slow. My two qualities were great technique and insight, which happen to be two things you can’t measure with a computer.\"\n\nIn his posthumously released autobiography \"My Turn: The Autobiography\", Cruyff reveals his dream all-time XI in his favourite 3-4-3/4–3–3 formation. Cruyff's side (in the 3–4–3 diamond formation) reads as follows: Lev Yashin (goalkeeper); Ruud Krol (full back/wing-back), Franz Beckenbauer (central defender/libero), Carlos Alberto (full-back/wing-back); Pep Guardiola (holding midfielder/midfield anchor), Bobby Charlton, Alfredo Di Stéfano, Diego Maradona (playmaker/attacking midfielder/second striker); Piet Keizer (winger), Garrincha (winger), and Pelé (centre-forward/striker). For humility, Cruyff didn't put himself in there, but there is a spot for his pupil, Pep Guardiola and his former teammates, Ruud Krol and Piet Keizer. It's a typically attacking line-up but Cruyff explains the selection in detail. \"For the ideal squad, I also try and find a formula in which talent is used to the maximum in every case\", notes Cruyff. \"The qualities of one player have to complement the qualities of another.\"\n\nIn his autobiography, Cruyff explained why he made a set of 14 basic rules, which are displayed at every Cruyff Court in the world, \"I read an article once about the building of the pyramids in Egypt. It turns out that some of the numbers coincide completely with natural laws – the position of the moon at certain times and so on. And it makes you think: how is it possible that those ancient people built something so scientifically complex? They must have had something that we don't, even though we always think that we're a lot more advanced than they were. Take Rembrandt and van Gogh: who can match them today? When I think that way, I'm increasingly convinced that everything is actually possible. If they managed to do the impossible nearly five thousand years ago, why can't we do it today? That applies equally to football, but also to something like the Cruyff Courts and school sports grounds. My fourteen rules are set out for every court and every school sports ground to follow. They are there to teach young people that sports and games can also be translated into everyday life.\"\n\nAnd he listed his 14 basic rules that include:\n\nCruyff is widely seen as an iconic and revolutionary figure in history of Ajax, Barça, and the Oranje. David Winner, the author of \"\", wrote about Cruyff's influential career in the football world, \"There have been lots of brilliant football figures down the years, but none has been as significant as Johan Cruyff. As a player with Ajax, Barcelona and the Netherlands, he put himself in the pantheon along with greats such as Pelé, Diego Maradona, Ferenc Puskás, Lionel Messi and Zinedine Zidane. As coach at Ajax and Barcelona, he built thrilling sides, nurtured a remarkable number of genius players and influenced many of the most important teams in the world. The all-conquering Spain and Barcelona of Xavi and Andrés Iniesta, brilliant Bayern Munich and Germany of today, AC Milan of the late 1980s and many other memorable champions would have been unthinkable without Cruyff. Once radical and revolutionary, Cruyffian principles have become standard throughout the modern game. His blueprint for developing young players has been copied all over the world.\" Gabriele Marcotti summed up Cruyff's footballing greatness: \"There may have been better players in the history of the game, though I doubt you can count them on more than one hand. And there may have been better managers, too, if only because his coaching career only lasted 10 and a half years (during which he won 14 trophies, not a bad return). But it's tough to argue that any man has exerted a greater influence – on the pitch and on the bench – on the game as we know it today.\"\n\nReferring to the influence of his style of play at Ajax, Barcelona (\"Dream Team\"), and with the Netherlands (\"Total Football\"), in addition to the 200 Cruyff courts he set up around the world for kids to hone their skills, football journalist Graham Hunter states, \"Johan Cruyff is, pound for pound, the most important man in the history of football.\" In his 2011 book, \"Barça: The Making of the Greatest Team in the World\", Hunter writes,\n\n, author of the German biography of Cruyff (\"Der König und sein Spiel: Johan Cruyff und der Weltfußball\" or \"The King and His Game: Johan Cruyff and the World Football\" in English), concluded that the Dutchman was the most influential figure in football history, stating no one made a bigger impact both as a player and as a manager.\n\nCruyff is sometimes described as a typical kind of ‘artist-footballer’ or ‘footballer-thinker’ who considers football, the so-called 'beautiful game', not a purely athletic/physical competition but an artistic-oriented mind-body game. Because of his distinctive footballing views, Cruyff was called ‘the Spinoza of football’ by some. He believed in a certain style of play, which has the power to put a smile on the people's faces as he described it. When Cruyff, both as a player and as a manager, spoke about football he often mentioned the entertainment value of the game, that there is more to it than winning. In a 2009 interview with \"Sportmail\"'s Martin Samuel, Arsène Wenger, as a devout follower of Cruyff's footballing ideology, once shared his opinion about football's artistic value,\n\n, the author of Cruyff's French biography, called him ‘the greatest actor in the history of football’ because Cruyff was an exception (possibly the only one) being the man who ‘played’ outstandingly well multiple roles in the world of football: player, manager, and thinker. For many people, more than just a great footballer or sportsman, Cruyff is also a remarkable cultural figure. Outside football, there were many articles about the applicability of Cruyff's principles and views in the football world into other fields, such as business management and education.\n\nRegarded by many as Europe's first true football superstar, Cruyff is often mentioned alongside the pair widely considered the finest to have played the game, Pele and Maradona. As a player, he greatly helped turn the previously backward and obscure Dutch football (at both club and international level) into a world-class powerhouse in the 1970s. In Simon Kuper's words, \"without Cruyff, Holland [Netherlands] wouldn’t have had a footballing tradition.\" Cruyff is always considered to be an indisputable icon in Ajax's history, especially in (1966–1973). He was instrumental in Ajax's transformation from a semi-professional club into a dominant force in European club football. Cruyff inspired Ajax to win the European Cup three times in succession at the beginning of the 1970s before moving to Barcelona in 1973 and helping the club win their first La Liga title in 14 years. In 1974, he led the Netherlands to their first FIFA World Cup final and received the Golden Ball as player of the tournament.\n\nCruyff was the most famous exponent of the school of football known as \"Total Football\" (\"Totaalvoetbal\" in Dutch) explored by Rinus Michels. Being known as \"the total footballer\", he was also one of the brilliant pioneers of the \"false nine\" position/role in modern football. In Total Football's heyday (in the early 1970s), Cruyff was truly an ‘on-field tactician’, an ‘on-field manager’, or a ‘coach-player’ at the same time, before the concept of player-coach was at the height of its popularity in professional football during the 1980s and 1990s. As Argentinian World Cup winner Jorge Valdano said of Cruyff, in an interview with Thomas Goubin of \"SoFoot.com\",\n\nChris McMullan (of \"FootballFanCast.com\") writes that \"he [Cruyff] was an anomaly. A man who played football like no one else. He didn't physically play football after all, he played it with his mind. An esoteric pursuit that completely changed the game. A visionary, a departure, a flight of fancy – Cruyff is the ultimate because his contribution to the game wasn't simply personal. He didn't break records, he didn't win golden boots, and only occasionally dazzled with skills. The reason he is a great is because he understood the game like no one else ever did and probably ever will. (...) His vision, his ability to see the game in a way that no one else could have was his gift. It showcases his talent, the way he formulated the game in his head and then was able to execute it perfectly with his legs.\" And he concludes, \"There is no one goal, no one clip of football that can encapsulate Johan Cruyff's contribution to football. No one piece of video could ever do that. That's not surprising. Cruyff wasn't a Pele or a Maradona whose careers can be summed up with a series of vines and clips, mountains of goals and skills after another. With Cruyff, you have to think in order to be able to understand it. It doesn't simply happen before your eyes, but it's something altogether more thoughtful, and ultimately more rewarding.\"\n\nOne of very few players who actually have a dribbling move named after them, Cruyff also perfected and popularized a feint now known as the \"Cruyff Turn\" (or \"Cruijff Turn\"). With its simplicity, effectiveness and unpredictability, the Cruyff Turn remains one of the most commonly used dribbling moves in modern football. He was the first player to win the Ballon d'Or three times, in 1971, 1973 and 1974. His world record move from Ajax to Barcelona in 1973 made him the first player to cost more than two million US dollars.\n\nIn 1999, Cruyff was voted European Player of the Century in an election held by the International Federation of Football History & Statistics (IFFHS), and came second behind Pelé in their World Player of the Century poll. He came third in a vote organised by the French magazine \"France Football\" consulting their former Ballon d'Or winners to elect their Football Player of the Century. He was elected the third-best footballer of the 20th century in a poll by the \"World Soccer\" magazine. Cruyff was also chosen on the World Team of the 20th Century in 1998, the FIFA World Cup Dream Team in 2002, and in 2004 was named in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players.\n\nIn an interview in 2011, when Argentina's 1978 World Cup-winning coach César Luis Menotti was discussing Lionel Messi's place in the pantheon of footballing greatness, he mentioned Cruyff in the same breath as Pelé and Maradona: \"There have been four kings of football – Di Stéfano, Pelé, Cruyff and Maradona – and the fifth has not yet appeared. We are awaiting the fifth, and it is sure to be Messi, but so far he is not among the kings. You can't give him the crown after five years.\" Several notable figures in the world of football such as Arsène Wenger, Michel Platini, Eric Cantona, Marco van Basten, Michael Laudrup, Emilio Butragueño, Rafael Benítez, and Joan Laporta once revealed that they considered Cruyff as their \"childhood hero\", \"idol\", or \"inspiration\". Arrigo Sacchi, Arsène Wenger, Carlos Alberto Torres, Telê Santana, and Marcelo Bielsa were among the great admirers of Cruyff-inspired Dutch school of Total Football. Over the past years, several footballing starlets were dubbed the 'new Johan Cruyff', including Kaká, Luka Modrić, Shinji Kagawa, and Adnan Januzaj.\n\nCruyff was noted by many as one of the few truly great players who made the transition to being a great coach/manager as well. His greatness was summed up by the former Dutch international Johan Neeskens, \"If you look at the greatest players in history, most of them couldn’t coach. If you look at the greatest coaches in history, most of them were not great players. Johan Cruyff did both – and in such an exhilarating style.\" Cruyff is undisputedly regarded as one of the greatest and most influential managers in history of the game, despite his top-level coaching career only lasted 11 years with two clubs. In July 2011, website \"Football Pantheon\" included him on its list of the top 50 greatest managers of all time. However, Cruyff's coaching legacy was about not just trophies and records but also the style and identity.\n\nAs the manager of AFC Ajax, Cruyff was able to implement his favoured team formation (3–4–3): with three mobile defenders; plus one more covering space – becoming, in effect, a defensive midfielder, two \"controlling\" midfielders with responsibilities to feed the attack-minded players, one second striker, two touchline-hugging wingers and one versatile centre forward. So successful was this system that Ajax won the Champions League in 1995 playing Cruyff's system. The starting point of his system was always the Total Football doctrine of dominating the game with ball possession. When Manchester United lost against Barcelona in the European Cup in 1994 with 4-0, Sir Alex Ferguson remarked about the system Cruyff was using:\n\nAs Barcelona's manager for nearly a decade, he helped create one of the greatest dynasties in the history of the club and continental football, both in terms of trophies and playing style. When Cruyff took over as manager in 1988, Barcelona were in a situation of severe crisis and debt. In the space of just six years (1988–1994), Cruyff the manager, with his leadership and management skills, turned Barça from the domestic strugglers and perennial underachievers into a true powerhouse of La Liga and European club football in general. In the early 1990s, the rise of Cruyff's Barça also officially marked the end of Real Madrid's era of overwhelming dominance (1960s–1980s) in La Liga history. As Jonathan Wilson writes, \"He [Cruyff] was a beautiful, brilliant and inspirational player and that alone would have placed him firmly in the pantheon, but what he did as a coach is unparalleled. When he took over Barcelona in 1988, they had won two league titles in 28 years. Crisis had followed crisis. In the 27 years since, they have won 13 league titles and five Champions Leagues... All with the football of Cruyff.\" At Barcelona, he assembled the so-called \"Dream Team\" with brilliant graduates from La Masia as well as world-class foreign players. He used a mix of Spanish players like Pep Guardiola, José Mari Bakero and Txiki Begiristain while signing international players such as Ronald Koeman, Michael Laudrup, Romário and Hristo Stoichkov. Under Cruyff's guidance, Barcelona won four consecutive La Liga titles from 1991 to 1994 and the club's first European Cup in particular. They beat Sampdoria in both the 1989 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup final and the 1992 European Cup final at Wembley, with a free kick goal from Dutch international Ronald Koeman. They also won a Copa del Rey in 1990, the European Super Cup in 1992 and three Supercopa de España trophies. With 11 trophies, Cruyff became the club's most successful manager at that point. He also became the club's longest consecutive serving manager, serving eight years.\nCruyff is officially considered as the founding father of now famous Barça-Ajax school of football (also known as 'Barçajax school'), with a distinctive footballing philosophy and predominant style of play, that was born in Barcelona but has roots in the 1970s Dutch (Amsterdam) school of Total Football. La Masia, Barça's youth academy and talent factory, was among Cruyff's lasting legacy. It was the brainchild of Cruyff. In 1979, he wanted to establish a copy of the Ajax Youth Academy in Barcelona. His proposal was accepted by president Josep Núñez. It was ten years after the inception of the youth program, La Masia, when the young players began to graduate and play for their first team. One of the first graduates, who would later earn international acclaim, was previous Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola. On 11 July 2010, Spain won the World Cup final with eight players from Barcelona; seven were from La Masia, and six of them were in the starting line-up: Gerard Piqué, Carles Puyol, Andrés Iniesta, Xavi, Sergio Busquets, and Pedro. This set a record for the most players to be provided by a club side for a team in a World Cup final. On 10 January 2011, La Masia achieved a record breaking honour becoming the first youth academy to have trained all three finalists for the Ballon d'Or in a single year, with Andrés Iniesta, Lionel Messi and Xavi. On 25 November 2012, for the first time in the club's history, away at Levante's Estadi Ciutat de València, Barcelona played with eleven players formed at La Masia. In an English biography of Pep Guardiola, Guillem Balagué writes, \"Cruyff introduced some passing drills into Barça's 'arterial' system. And since then, the \"rondos\" have been not just a method but a symbol of the club's playing style: of dominating and never losing the ball. Cruyff blended several ideas and concepts and converted them into a philosophy – the seeds of which were planted throughout a club in urgent need of a footballing identity. Until then, the first team of Barcelona had been comfortably living in a world of excuses and enemies, content with their role as victims when faced with Real Madrid, an institution seen from Catalonia as the club of the Establishment\", and adding, \"Xavi Hernández describes the style in its purest form: 'I pass the ball and move, or I pass the ball and stay where I am. I make myself available to help you; I look at you. I stop, I keep my head up and look, and, above all, I open up the pitch. Whoever has the ball is running play. That comes from the school of Johan Cuyff and Pep Guardiola. This is Barça.'\" On the legacy of Cruyff's football philosophy and the passing style of play he introduced to the club, former Barcelona manager Guardiola stated, \"Cruyff built the cathedral, our job is to maintain and renovate it.\" One of the most famous La Masia graduates, Xavi, said, \"He [Cruyff] changed the idiosyncrasy of the club. He introduced the philosophy to keep the ball, to play in triangles, to attack. That philosophy remains true to this day. We're all students of Cruyff and his school of thought.\"\n\nMore than merely a great player or manager, Cruyff is also regarded as a great thinker who officially founded and represented a distinctive school of thought in football and a style/way of playing that is predominant today. Generally seen as a highly influential ideological figure in the football world, Cruyff was also a brilliant tactical innovator in history of the game. Writing in his weekly blog for \"Kicca.com\", Spanish international midfielder Juan Mata, a graduate of Real Madrid's youth academy, hails Cruyff's overall footballing vision, \"I consider him [Cruyff] the ideological father of the football; the one I try to play like and the one I look to learn from as a spectator whenever I watch a game. The intelligent use of the ball and the spaces, the importance of talent over the physical condition and the understanding of football as a team sport are concepts that I definitely endorse.\" His influence at Ajax and Barcelona went beyond his playing and managerial spells as he helped shape the footballing philosophy/identity of both clubs. La Masia, Barça's youth academy, was the brainchild of Cruyff. As a prominent graduate from the famed Ajax Youth Academy, he always believed using regularly young home-grown players in first-team squad. He established a unique model at La Masia where the youth players could grow up and have a better chance to be part of the senior team, as they would already be accustomed to the style of play. As former La Masia technical director Pep Segura said of Cruyff: \"It is about creating one philosophy, one mentality, from the bottom of the club to the top. Cruyff is the one who started it all. He has been the club's most influential figure. We all have the ability to do certain things, but I would not have been able to build something from scratch like Cruyff did. I learned a lot of things from him. I cannot imagine the current Barcelona without Cruyff's work.\" The style of play Cruyff introduced at Barcelona came to be known as \"tiki-taka\" — characterised by short passing and movement, working the ball through various channels, and maintaining possession — which was adopted by UEFA Euro 2008-, 2010 World Cup- and Euro 2012-winning Spain national team. After decades of being known as the perennial underachievers on the international stage, Spain created one of the most dominant dynasties in international football history between 2008 and 2012. By winning Euro 2012, Spain became the first national team to win three straight world and continental championships and the first to win consecutive Euro titles. According to Xavi, the Barcelona and Spain midfielder at the heart of \"tiki-taka\" style of play, \"Our model was imposed by [Johan] Cruyff; it's an Ajax model. It's all about rondos [piggy in the middle]. Rondo, rondo, rondo.\"\n\nCruyff's footballing principles have significantly influenced the football career of many players and managers, including Frank Rijkaard and Pep Guardiola, two devoted disciples and successors of the Cruyffian (Barça-Ajax) school of football. Without Cruyff operating behind the scenes as the spiritual father of Barça, there could be no Joan Laporta presidency, and Rijkaard and Guardiola, two largely unproven managers, could never have been appointed. Guardiola, a typical product (graduate) of Cruyffian school, who was the manager of Barcelona between 2008 and 2012, stated: \"Throughout my career I've simply tried to instil what I learned from Johan Cruyff. He has had the biggest influence on football out of anyone in the world, first as a player and then as a coach. He taught me a lot and you can see that in the fact that so many of his former players are now coaches\". Guardiola added, \"Johan Cruyff built the cathedral, our job is to maintain and renovate it.\" In regards to how the football world will remember Cruyff's posthumous legacy, he said, \"As a player and as a manager he won a lot of titles, but that's not his legacy. The titles only help. Johan has changed two clubs. Not only did he change Ajax, but also Barcelona – and then the Dutch and Spanish national teams, too. Forget the titles. I've won more titles than him. Messi, for example, is someone runs less and in that he's the best of Cruyff's alumni. (...) I would not have been capable of doing what he did at Barcelona. He changed everything. He did it all. What Cruyff's done for football cannot be compared. The statue thing is superficial. He has made us love this sport so openly that there's no way we can forget him.\"\n\nJürgen Klinsmann, the head coach of the United States national team, said about Cruyff's overall impact on contemporary football, \"More than an athlete, Cruyff was also a great thinker, someone who reinvented the sport... Cruyff has left us now, but his vision and philosophy will hopefully live forever. You can see it in the way Barcelona—one of two clubs Cruyff revolutionized, along with Ajax—still plays every week. It's a style that has admirers around the world. I think a lot of people share that [philosophy] with him. You want to see this type of game, where you set the tone, you control the game, you make it fast, you make it attractive and attacking. He's always been famous for his version of the 4–3–3 with the wide wingers, all technically highly gifted and fast. This is his mark.\"\n\nThe Germany national team that won the 2014 World Cup had deep Cruyffian (via Pep Guardiola) influences. After leaving Barcelona, Guardiola implanted the Cruyffian vision at Bayern Munich. Germany and Bayern goalkeeper Manuel Neuer, who completed more passes at the 2014 World Cup than Argentina's Lionel Messi did, incarnates the goalkeeper whom Cruyff dreamt up in the 1960s and 1970s: A footballer in gloves. It had always bothered Cruyff that goalkeepers just stopped shots. He thought it was a waste of a player. As Cruyff once said, \"In my teams, the goalie (goalkeeper) is the first attacker and the striker the first defender.\" He wanted a goalkeeper who could also get involved in the passing. Thus, the goalkeeper effectively becomes the 11th player, like Edwin van der Sar at Ajax or Víctor Valdés at Barcelona.\n\nCruyff's footballing ideas also influenced considerably Belgian football's coaching revolution leading by the former national technical director Michel Sablon in the early 2000s, with the introduction of the Barçajax-inspired youth system that developed the talents of Belgium's new golden generation. In 2009 Belgium were 66th in the FIFA World Rankings and had completed their rise to the top for the first time ever, in November 2015, thanks to their 3–1 Euro 2016 qualifying win over Israel.\n\n\nIn 2018, Cruyff was added as an icon to the Ultimate Team in EA Sports’ \"FIFA\" video game \"FIFA 19\", receiving a 94 rating. British sportswriter David Winner's 2000 book on Dutch football, \"Brilliant Orange\", mentions Cruyff frequently. In the book, Dutch football's ideas (in particular Cruyff's) effectively related to the use of space in Dutch painting and Dutch architecture.\n\nIn 1976, the Italian-language documentary film \"Il profeta del gol\" was directed by Sandro Ciotti. The documentary narrates the successes of Johan Cruyff's football career in the 1970s. In 2004, the documentary film \"Johan Cruijff – En un momento dado\" (\"Johan Cruijff – At Any Given Moment\") was made by Ramon Gieling and charts the years Cruyff spent at Barcelona, the club where he had the most profound effect in both a footballing and cultural sense. In 2014, the Catalan-language documentary film \"L'últim partit: 40 anys de Johan Cruyff a Catalunya\" was directed by Jordi Marcos, celebrating 40 years since Johan Cruyff signed for Barcelona in August 1973.\n\nBritish rock band The Hours recorded a song called \"Love You More\" in 2007. In it lead singer Antony Genn described his partner as \"Better than Elvis in his '68 comeback, Better than Cruyff in '74..\", In an interview with German daily \"Sueddeutsche Zeitung\" in 2008, when German Chancellor Angela Merkel was discussing the upcoming Euro 2008, she praised Cruyff's performance at the 1974 World Cup: \"Cruyff really impressed me. I think I wasn't the only one in Europe.\" Cruyff stood out at the 1974 World Cup in West Germany which Merkel watched from her then home country East Germany.\n\nIn February 2014, President of Israel Shimon Peres, at his residence in Jerusalem, welcomed Cruyff and praising his foundation's dedication to peace, \"People remember very well that not only were you an outstanding football player but that you gave football a social content, you made it an educational process. You are a role model. Football is one of the great ways to make peace among people. When a player like you arrives in our country the eyes of the children light up—Jewish, Arab or Muslim.\"\n\nIn the Netherlands, and to some extent Spain, Cruyff is famous for his one-liners that usually hover between brilliant insight and the blatantly obvious. They are famous for their Amsterdam dialect and incorrect grammar, and often feature tautologies and paradoxes. In Spain, his most famous statement is \"En un momento dado\" (\"In any given moment\"). The quote has been used for the title of a 2004 documentary about Cruyff's life: \"Johan Cruijff – En un momento dado\". In the Netherlands, his most famous one-liner is \"Ieder nadeel heb z'n voordeel\" (\"Every disadvantage has its advantage\") and his way of expressing himself has been dubbed \"Cruijffiaans\". Cruyff rarely limited himself to a single line though, and in a comparison with the equally oracular but reserved football manager Rinus Michels, Kees Fens equated Cruyff's monologues to experimental prose, \"without a subject, only an attempt to drop words in a sea of uncertainty (...) there is no full stop\".\n\nHe had a small hit (number 21 in the charts) in the Netherlands with \"Oei Oei Oei (Dat Was Me Weer Een Loei)\". Upon arriving in Barcelona, the Spanish branch of Polydor decided to release the single in Spain as well, where it was rather popular.\n\nCruyff suffered a heart attack (like his father who died of a heart attack when he was 12) in his early forties. He used to smoke 20 cigarettes a day prior to undergoing double heart bypass surgery in 1991 while he was the coach of Barcelona. Cruyff was forced to immediately give up smoking, and he made an anti-smoking advertisement for the Catalan Department of Health. In the TV spot, Cruyff is dressed like a manager in a long trench coat combined with collared shirt and tie. He juggled a cigarette pack 16 times – using feet, thighs, chest, shoulder, and head like holding up a ball – before volleying it away. Throughout the commercial he speaks in Catalan about the dangers of smoking.\n\nIn November 2003, Cruyff invoked legal proceedings against the publisher Tirion Uitgevers, over its photo book \"Johan Cruyff de Ajacied\" (\"\"Johan Cruijff the Ajax player\"), which used photographs by Guus de Jong. Cruyff was working on another book, also using De Jong's photographs, and claimed unsuccessfully that Tirion's book violated his trademark and portrait rights.\n\nIn 2004, a public poll in the Netherlands to determine the greatest Dutchman (\"De Grootste Nederlander\"\") named Cruyff the 6th-greatest Dutchman of all time, with Cruyff finishing above Rembrandt (9th) and Vincent van Gogh (10th). In 2010, the asteroid (minor planet) \"\" was named after him. The International Astronomical Union (IAU) officially ratified the naming of Cruijff on 23 September 2010. After Josef Bican and Ferenc Puskás, Cruyff is the third football player to have an asteroid named after him.\n\nThere were many nicknames Cruyff had in the Netherlands and Spain, including \"Jopie\", \"Nummer 14\", \"Het orakel van Betondorp\" (the prophet of Betondorp), \"El Salvador\" (The Saviour), and \"El Flaco\" (The Skinny One). One of his best known nicknames was \"El Salvador\" or \"The Saviour\", a nickname he received during the 1973–74 season and again in 1988, when he helped terminate crisis eras in Barça's history.\n\nOutside football, Cruyff's favourite sport (and hobby) was golf. In the 1970s, Cruyff loved to collect cars. In the Sandro Ciotti's documentary film \"Il Profeta del gol\" (1976), Cruyff said, \"I like to drive for the 20 km that separate the training camp from my house, it relaxes me. I love the cars.\"\n\nIn 1979, Cruyff was reaching the twilight of his career in Barcelona. He began to imagine creating a range of footwear himself to challenge the technical and luxury qualities of those on the market beforehand. After a few years of trying and failing to encourage big sportswear brands to take his idea seriously, after all this was quite an unusual ambition of a professional sportsman at the time. Eventually he combined with his close friend, Italian designer Emilio Lazzarini, and using his knowledge he set out to create a technical shoe which managed to balance functionality with elegance. Initially the range was filled with \"luxury\" indoor football shoes, but they quickly became used as a fashion shoe due to their attractive appearance. And so Cruyff Classics brand was born.\n\nCruyff is the author/co-author of several books (in Dutch and Spanish) about his football career, in particular his principles and view about the football world. He also wrote his weekly columns for \"El Periódico\" (Barcelona-based newspaper) and \"De Telegraaf\" (Amsterdam-based newspaper).\n\nCruyff was a multilingual, as British football writer Brian Glanville described, \"his intelligence off the field as well as on it was quite remarkable. How well I remember seeing Cruyff surrounded by journalists from all over the world in 1978 to whose questions he replied almost casually in a multiplicity of languages. Not only Dutch, but English, French, Spanish and German.\"\n\nThe Johan Cruyff Foundation has provided over 200 Cruyff courts in 22 countries, including Israel, Malaysia, Japan, United States and Mexico, for children of all backgrounds to play street football together. UEFA praised the foundation for its positive effect on young people, and Cruyff received the UEFA Grassroots Award on the opening of the 100th court in late 2009. In 1999, he founded the Johan Cruyff Institute with a program for 35 athletes as part of the Johan Cruyff University of Amsterdam and has since become a global network.\n\nBorn in the heavily damaged post–World War II Netherlands, Cruyff came from a humble background and lost his father as a child. This had a great influence on his future career and character. He was renowned for his strong personality. His character, both in and beyond the footballing world, was much described as the complicated combination of an idealist, individualist, libertarian, collectivist, romantic, purist, pragmatist, rebel, and even despot. Dutch sportswriter Johan Derksen, a close friend of Cruyff, once said of him, \"Johan [Cruijff] is absolutely religious, though he never goes to church.\"\n\nIn August 1973, Ajax players voted for Piet Keizer to be the team's captain in a secret ballot, ahead of Cruyff. And Cruyff decided his time in Amsterdam had come to an end. He joined Barcelona just weeks later, two years before the Spanish dictator Francisco Franco died, maintaining to the European press corps en route that he chose Barcelona over rivals Real Madrid because he could never join a club \"associated with Franco\". As he recalled in a documentary on TV3 channel, \"I remember my move to Spain was quite controversial. (...) The president of Ajax wanted to sell me to Real Madrid, (...) Barcelona weren't at the same level as Madrid football wise, but it was a challenge to play for a Catalan club. Barcelona was more than a club.\" At the end of the 1982–83 season, Ajax decided not to offer Cruyff a new contract. This angered Cruyff and he responded by signing for Ajax's archrivals Feyenoord. Cruyff's season at Feyenoord was a successful one in which the club won the Eredivisie for the first time in a decade, part of a league and KNVB Cup double.\n\nCruyff's strong personality played a historical role in the eternal struggle between Puma and Adidas, the two rival brands that were born from the political divisions between the two Dassler brothers. Cruyff was a big fan of Puma's \"King\" boots and by 1974 had signed a sponsorship deal with German sportswear and equipment supplier. At the 1974 World Cup, Johan Cruyff was under contract with Puma in a deal that prohibited him from promoting other sports brands. As the tournament approached, Cruyff flatly refused to wear Adidas's trademark three black stripes on his No. 14 jersey. The Netherlands national football association had little choice but to honor the wishes of their best player, and Dutch officials eventually persuaded Adidas to design a separate jersey just for Cruyff, with just two stripes running along the sleeves.\n\nUntil the 1990s, players did not have fixed numbering — except in some short competitions like the World Cup or European Championship where players were given a designated number. The starting players usually wore jerseys from 1 to 11 and the substitutes, from 12 to 16. Cruyff's usual number was 9.\n\nOn 30 October 1970, Cruyff was coming back from a long-time injury to play Ajax's bitter rivals PSV. However, in the locker room before the match, teammate Gerrie Muhren couldn't find his jersey number 7. Cruyff offered his shirt to Muhren and went to the basket to pick another one at random. It happened to be the number 14. Ajax won 1–0 and Cruyff suggested they keep the same numbers to the following game — according to Muhren, on an interview to \"Voetbal International\", it was a form to challenge the Dutch Football Association. From then on, Cruyff kept using the number 14 for Ajax and Netherlands national team when he was allowed to.\n\nIn the 1974 FIFA World Cup, Netherlands' head coach Rinus Michels wanted his squad to wear numbers alphabetically. As Cruyff was the first player on roster, he would be number 1, but he refused and insisted to wear his lucky number 14. Forward Ruud Geels ended up with the No 1 shirt while goalkeeper Jan Jongbloed played as the number 8.\n\nAlthough the number 14 had become a trademark for Cruyff, he could be seen wearing his old number 9 on other occasions, like on most of his career for FC Barcelona, because the league demanded starting players were numbered 1 to 11, or for Netherlands in the 1976 European Championship. In 2007, Ajax retired Cruyff’s number 14.\n\nCruyff had remained a highly controversial figure throughout his life. Cruyff's relationships with Ajax, Barça, and KNVB (Royal Dutch Football Association) were turbulent for some time, especially in his later years. Also, in his native Netherlands, there has been always a love-hate relationship between Cruyff and his fellow countrymen. There was a long-standing feud between Cruyff and Louis van Gaal, though never confirmed publicly by both sides. He also often criticised José Mourinho for his defensive-based coaching philosophy, stated, \"José Mourinho is a negative coach. He only cares about the result and doesn't care much for good football.\" As David Winner notes, \"Cruyff has had many enemies and critics over the years.\" He has been accused of being arrogant, greedy, intolerant, despotic, \"too idealistic, too stubborn, insufficiently interested in defending and simply too difficult a personality. He loves an argument, and his conflict-model method of working can be bruising.\" And Winner concludes that, \"With his belief in the \"conflict model\" – the idea that you got the best out of people by provoking fights and thereby raising levels of excitement and adrenaline – Cruyff made enemies almost as easily as he generated delight. Battles with club presidents and teammates led to ruptures, especially at Ajax and Barcelona, the two clubs that defined his career.\"\n\nCruyff was also well known for his vocal criticism and uncompromising attitude. A perfectionist, he always had a strong opinion about things and was even loyal to his principles more than any thing else in the football world. As an outspoken and critical visionary, he strongly criticized the Netherlands' style of play at the 2010 World Cup. \"Who am I supporting? I am Dutch but I support the football that Spain is playing. Spain's style is the style of Barcelona... Spain, a replica of Barça, is the best publicity for football\", Cruyff wrote in his weekly column for the Barcelona-based newspaper \"El Periodico\", prior to the final match.\n\nUntil the early 2010s, Barcelona had mounting debts, built up over the past few seasons, a situation that forced the club to push through an emergency bailout loan of €150 million. The Qatar Foundation, run by Sheikha Mozah, became the first shirt sponsor in Barcelona's 111-year history. The club had previously used UNICEF's logo on the front of its shirts. In 2011, incoming Barcelona president Sandro Rosell agreed the deal for a period of five seasons, with the club receiving €30 million each year, starting on 1 July 2011 and running until 30 June 2016, plus bonuses for trophies won that could total €5m. Writing in his \"El Periodico\" column, Cruyff slammed the deal, \"We are a unique club in the world, no one has kept their jersey intact throughout their history, yet have remained as competitive as they come... We have sold this uniqueness for about six percent of our budget. I understand that we are currently losing more than we are earning. However, by selling the shirt it shows me that we are not being creative, and that we have become vulgar.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"The Guardian\"s Donald McRae in 2014, Cruyff said about football's lost values and how money had eroded the game's purity, \"Football is now all about money. There are problems with the values within the game. This is sad because football is the most beautiful game. We can play it in the street. We can play it everywhere. Everyone can play it whether you’re tall or small, fat or thin. But those values are being lost. We have to bring them back.\"\n\nAt the wedding of Ajax teammate Piet Keizer, on 13 June 1967, Cruyff met his future wife, Diana Margaretha \"Danny\" Coster (b. 1949). They started dating, and on 2 December 1968, at the age of 21, he married Danny. Her father was Dutch businessman Cor Coster who also happened to be Cruyff's agent. He was also credited with engineering Cruyff's move to FC Barcelona in 1973. The marriage is said to have been happy for almost 50 years. Contrary to his well-known strong personality and superstar status, Cruyff led a relatively quiet private life beyond the world of football. A highly principled, strong-minded and devoted family man, Cruyff's football career, both as a player and as a manager, was considerably influenced by his family, in particular his wife Danny. He and Danny had three children together: Chantal (16 November 1970), Susila (27 January 1972), and Jordi (9 February 1974). The family has lived in Barcelona since 1973, with a six-year interruption from December 1981 to January 1988 when they lived in Vinkeveen, The Netherlands.\n\nIn 1977, Cruyff announced his decision to retire from international football at the age of 30, despite still being lean and wiry, after helping the country qualify for the 1978 World Cup. This move, shrouded in mystery and met with disbelief back in late 1977, was only finally stripped of its mystique in 2008, when Cruyff explained his decision in an interview with \"Catalunya Radio\". It was while still living in Barcelona as a player in late 1977, Cruyff and his family became the victims of an armed attacker who forced his way into his flat in Barcelona. And the man who was then the ultimate football superstar was confronted with the choice between family values and a highly promising World Cup glory at the end of his international career. But for Cruyff, family comes first. In the interview with \"Catalunya Radio\", he said that the attempted kidnap was the reason he decided not to go to the World Cup in Argentina in 1978. As he recalled, \"You should know that I had problems at the end of my career as a player here and I don't know if you know that someone [put] a rifle at my head and tied me up and tied up my wife in front of the children at our flat in Barcelona. The children were going to school accompanied by the police. The police slept in our house for three or four months. I was going to matches with a bodyguard. All these things change your point of view towards many things. There are moments in life in which there are other values. We wanted to stop this and be a little more sensible. It was the moment to leave football and I couldn't play in the World Cup after this.\"\n\nCruyff named his third child after the patron saint of Catalonia, St Jordi, commonly known in English as Saint George of Lydda. This was seen as a provocative gesture towards the then Spanish dictator General Franco, who had made all symbols of Catalan nationalism illegal. Cruyff had to fly his son back to the Netherlands to register his birth as the name \"Jordi\" had been banned by the Spanish authorities. Cruyff's decision to go to such great lengths to support Catalan nationalism is part of the reason he is a hero to Barcelona supporters and Catalan nationalists.\n\nJordi Cruyff has played for teams such as Barcelona (while father Johan was manager), Manchester United, Alavés and Espanyol. His grandson, Jesjua Angoy, plays at Dayton Dutch Lions. The younger Cruyff wears \"Jordi\" on his shirt to distinguish himself from his famous father, which also reflects the common Spanish practice of referring to players by given names alone or by nicknames. It is also related to the commercial claim of \"name and fame\" of his father to the name Cruyff/Cruijff. Pep Guardiola, Ronald Koeman, and Joan Laporta were among Cruyff's closest friends. Estelle Cruijff, a niece of Cruyff, was married to Ruud Gullit for 12 years (2000–2012).\n\nCruyff once described himself as \"not religious\" and criticized the practices of devoutly Catholic Spanish players: \"In Spain all 22 players make the sign of the cross before a game; if it worked, every game would be a tie.\" That widely quoted statement earned him a place on lists of the world's top atheist athletes. But in the 1990s, Cruyff told the Dutch Catholic radio station RKK/KRO that as a child he attended Sunday school, where he was taught about the Bible, and that while he didn’t go to church as an adult, he believed \"there's something there.\" The Dutch evangelical broadcaster EO posted an interview conducted before Cruyff's death with his friend Johan Derksen, the editor-in-chief of \"Voetbal International\" magazine. \"People don't know the real Johan Cruyff\", Derksen said. \"I have on occasion had beautiful conversations with him about faith, because we both went to the same kind of schools and learned about the Bible. And it stays with you.\"\n\nCruyff is also said to have had an attachment to Jewish culture, having grown up in the Amsterdam municipal Betondorp populated by a sizeable Jewish community, and more prevalently because of his lifelong connections with Ajax Amsterdam – a football club with such strong Dutch Jewish influences that some have even dubbed it a \"Jewish club\".\n\n\nCruyff had always been a heavy smoker from his boyhood until he underwent an emergency bypass operation in 1991. After giving up smoking following the surgery, he took to sucking lollipops when watching games. He featured in a Catalan health department advert, saying, \"Football has given me everything in life, tobacco almost took it all away.\" After more heart trouble in 1997, he vowed never to coach again (until 2009), though he remained a vocal football critic and analyst.\n\nIn October 2015 he was diagnosed with lung cancer. After the news broke, tributes poured in for the former Ajax and Netherlands legend, with all Eredivisie games featuring a round of applause on 14 minutes, Cruyff's former shirt number. Ahead of their league game against Eibar at the Camp Nou (25 October 2015), Barcelona players showed their support for Cruyff by wearing orange T-shirts bearing the words 'Ànims Johan' (Catalan for 'Get well soon Johan'). Writing in his weekly \"De Telegraaf\" column, Cruyff admitted, \"Often the media are an additional tax, but the last week that has been different. The way in which a reply is posted via a variety of media in my situation, was emotional and heartwarming. I am extremely proud of the appreciation shown by all responses.\" On his condition, Cruyff added, \"Meanwhile, we have to wait. It's really annoying that it has been leaked so quickly, because the only thing I know now is that I have lung cancer. No more. Because the investigation is ongoing.\"\n\nIn mid February 2016, he stated that he had been responding well to chemotherapy and was \"winning\" his cancer battle. On 2 March 2016, he was in attendance on the second day of winter testing at the Circuit de Catalunya just outside Barcelona and visited Dutch Formula One driver Max Verstappen. Cruyff appeared to be in good spirits and it is believed this was the last time he was seen in public. On the morning of 24 March 2016, in a clinic in Barcelona, Cruyff died at the age of 68, surrounded by his wife, children, and grandchildren. His lung cancer had metastasized to his brain and a week before his death he had begun to lose his ability to speak as well as movement on his left side. He was cremated in Barcelona within 24 hours following his death. A private ceremony was held, attended only by his wife (Danny), children (Chantal, Susila, and Jordi), and grandchildren.\n\nCruyff's death shocked the football world. Within a week after his death, there were numerous individuals (including players and managers) and organizations (including clubs) paying tribute to him, especially via social media. Thousands of Barcelona fans passed through the memorial to Cruyff, opened inside the Camp Nou stadium, to pay tribute. Cruyff's greatness was even respected by his rivals. Former Barcelona president Sandro Rosell, who did not have a good relationship with Cruyff, was among the early visitors to the memorial. Real Madrid president Florentino Pérez led a Real Madrid delegation to the memorial, including former players Emilio Butragueño and Amancio Amaro. Former Real Madrid president Ramón Calderón said of Cruyff: \"He can be seen as a revolutionary, a dreamer, a visionary, and an innovator who changed the idea of a game in which strength was the primary consideration to another one based, and focused, on ability and technique, giving birth to what has been called \"tiki-taka.\" He used to say that football should be played with the brain... I met him a few times after he left football, always playing golf, a sport he loved. He would always talk about football in the same way he did when he was playing and coaching—with plenty of passion and excitement. A legend has gone but he has left an important legacy.\"\n\nA friendly match between the Netherlands and France was held on the day after Cruyff's death. The play (at the Amsterdam Arena) was stopped in the 14th minute as players, staff, and supporters gave a minute's applause for Cruyff, who wore the number 14 shirt for his country. Mascots from both teams took to the pitch wearing Netherlands national team shirts adorned with Cruyff's number 14 on the front, while there were numerous banners in the spectators' stands bearing the simple message, \"Johan Bedankt\" (\"Thank you Johan\").\n\nAhead of the El Clásico against Real Madrid (2 April 2016), Barcelona announced plans for five special tributes to the late club legend:\n\nFormer Israeli president and prime minister Shimon Peres paid tribute to Cruyff as a cultural figure and writing on \"Facebook\": \"Johan was more than just a great soccer player. He was a role model who promoted world peace. He brought the values of education into the game of football and proved that on the field, everyone is equal – Jews, Muslims, and Christians – that running fast and playing well will lead to victory in spite of discrimination and racism. Your work promoting sport and peace gave hope to children and youth around the world.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPlayer\n\n\nManager\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41688293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41688293", "title": "Kazi Anis Ahmed", "text": "Kazi Anis Ahmed\n\nKazi Anis Ahmed (Bengali: কাজী আনিস আহমেদ) is a Bangladeshi businessman, investor and publisher who serves as the Director and Chief Strategist of Gemcon Group and CEO of organics, education and retail department of the same group. He is the co-founder and the Vice-President of the Board of Trustees of University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh and the publisher of the English-language daily newspaper \"Dhaka Tribune\" and Bengali-language online newspaper \"Bangla Tribune\" and the literary journal \"Bengal Lights\".\n\nKazi Anis Ahmed was born in Dhaka, Bangladesh. His father, Kazi Shahid Ahmed, is the founder and chairman of Gemcon Group, and also a writer and novelist in the Bengali language. In his early life, Anis Ahmed was educated in Dhaka and later at Brown University, Washington University and New York University.\n\nAhmed is the Director and CEO of Organics, Retail and Education for Gemcon Group in Dhaka, and is the Director of the Kazi and Kazi Tea Estate, Ltd. (KKTE). At Kazi and Kazi Tea Estate, Ahmed has helped establish the guiding organic values and policies that allowed KKTE to emerge as the first successful organic tea estate in Bangladesh. He personally oversaw the international SGS Organic and USDA Organic certification processes. He is the Co-Founder of the Teatulia brand of Kazi and Kazi Tea, which sells in the USA, UK, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia and Kuwait. Teatulia is the only Bangladeshi tea brand to sell in premium stores around the world, including Whole Foods in the US and Harrods in the UK.\n\nAhmed runs Kazi & Kazi Tea Estate Ltd. with his family. Kazi & Kazi Tea Estate is the first USDA and SGS-certified 100% organic tea garden and cooperative in northern Bangladesh that is the single source for the tea company Teatulia. Teatulia tea is distributed in Bangladesh, the United Kingdom, the United States, and will soon be available in Japan.\n\nHe is the co-founder of University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh and the Vice-President of the Board of Trustees of the same university.\n\nAhmed is the publisher of the English-language daily newspaper \"Dhaka Tribune\" and Bengali-language online newspaper \"Bangla Tribune\" and the literary journal \"Bengal Lights\".\n\nApart from his career as a businessman and an investor, Ahmed also occasionally writes particularly in his second language English. His first collection of short stories, Good Night, Mr. Kissinger, was published by The University Press Limited in Bangladesh and launched at the Hay Festival in Dhaka, Bangladesh in 2012.Ahmed's first novel, The World in My Hands, was published by Random House India in December 2013. The book is a political satire that charts the fate of two friends – a newspaper editor and a successful property developer – whose relationship is bitterly tested when they find themselves on opposite sides of a crisis that upends their country's social order.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55788643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55788643", "title": "Khalila Mbowe", "text": "Khalila Mbowe\n\nKhalila Kellz Mbowe is a female Tanzanian choreographer, creative performance director and social entrepreneur, who is the founder, managing director and chief executive officer of \"Unleashed Africa Company Limited\", an enterprise that trains gifted young people in the performing arts, offering education, mentoring, exposure and opportunities to succeed in life. \n\nShe was born in Tanzania circa 1988, and attended \"Saint Mary’s Secondary School\", in Dar es Salaam for her high school education. She holds an Advanced Diploma in Mass Communication, obtained from Taylor's University, in Singapore, in 2010. She is currently enrolled in the University of the People, pursuing a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree.\n\nIn 2006, at the age of 18 years, she obtained her first job as a copywriter at FCB Advertising Agency, a subsidiary of Lowe Scanad Tanzania Limited. After working in that capacity for two months, she was promoted to an account executive handling the account of one of Tanzania's leading telecommunications companies.\n\nIn 2010, after graduating from Taylor's University, she landed a job working for Airtel Tanzania, a subsidiary of India's Bharti Airtel, working there for one year, from 2013 until 2014. From April 2015 until December 2015, she worked as the Chief Executive Officer of \"Buddies Production Company Limited\", a television production company from Uganda that was looking to expand in Tanzania.\nSince February 2915, she has focused on running UACL, and pursuing her degree in business administration, online. Her company employed 20 people as of November 2017. Some of her clients have included Vodacom, Total Tanzania, Uongozi Institute, TED Global and Sera Project.\n\nKhalila Mbowe is the mother of two children; Raphael, born circa 2009 and Belle, born circa 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1171760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1171760", "title": "Kimpton Hotels &amp; Restaurants", "text": "Kimpton Hotels &amp; Restaurants\n\nThe Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group Inc. is a San Francisco, California, based hotel and restaurant brand owned by the Intercontinental Hotels Group (IHG). Founded in 1981 by William (Bill) Kimpton and led by Chief Executive Officer Mike DeFrino, the group was the largest chain of boutique hotels in the United States in 2011. It currently operates 65 hotels, all but the Kimpton Seafire Resort + Spa in Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands and the Kimpton De Witt in Amsterdam are in the United States. New hotels have been announced for Toronto, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, Paris, Grenada, Bali, Shanghai, Sanya, and Taipei.\n\nWhile most Kimpton properties are marketed under their own names as boutique hotels, the company launched two sub-brands in 2005, Hotel Palomar and Hotel Monaco. Each property has a restaurant or bar that is marketed as upscale or trendy. \"Fortune\" listed it as the #11 best company to work for in 2015. The company also manages and operates hotels owned by other entitie under contract.\n\nOn December 16, 2014, IHG announced that it would acquire Kimpton for $430 million in cash. IHG has retained the Kimpton brand name within the U.S. and may expand it globally. As a result of the acquisition, seven of Kimpton's nine hotels in San Francisco left the brand in July 2015.\n\nIn addition to the Hotel Monaco and Palomar Hotel brand hotels, other company hotels include:\n\nCAYMAN ISLANDS\nEUROPE\nUSA\nThe company's environmental program is called Earthcare. Every hotel adopts standard environmentally friendly products and practices, such as eco-friendly cleaning supplies and recycling.\n\nEvery year, the company sponsors a red ribbon campaign generating awareness and funds for local HIV service agencies. In addition, local hotels make donations to LGBT charities and host events for local community groups. Kimpton formed K-GLEN, the Kimpton Gay and Lesbian Employee Network, to advise the company on personnel and community outreach concerns. The committee meets quarterly and has representation from every region of the country. The company was included as one of the ten best companies for gay and lesbian employees by \"The Advocate\". It has received a 100% rating on the Corporate Equality Index released by the Human Rights Campaign every year since 2005.\n\nThe company sponsors Dress for Success Worldwide, an international non-profit organization that provides professional clothing and employment search programs for women.\n\n"}
{"id": "37122169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37122169", "title": "Labor geography", "text": "Labor geography\n\nLabor geography is a sub-discipline of human geography and economic geography that deals with the spatial relationships and geographic trends within labor and political systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "219287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219287", "title": "Legal person", "text": "Legal person\n\nA legal person (in legal contexts often simply person, less ambiguously legal entity) is any human or non-human entity, in other words, any human being, firm, or government agency that is recognized as having privileges and obligations, such as having the ability to enter into contracts, to sue, and to be sued.\n\nThe term \"legal person\" is however ambiguous because it is also used in contradistinction to \"natural person\", i.e. as a synonym of terms used to refer only to non-human legal entities.\n\nSo there are of two kinds of legal entities, human and non-human: natural persons (also called \"physical persons\") and juridical persons (also called \"juridic\", \"juristic\", \"artificial\", \"legal\", or \"fictitious persons\", ), which are other entities (such as corporations) that are treated in law as if they were persons.\n\nWhile human beings acquire legal personhood when they are born (or even before in some jurisdictions), juridical persons do so when they are incorporated in accordance with law.\n\nLegal personhood is a prerequisite to legal capacity, the ability of any legal person to amend (enter into, transfer, etc.) rights and obligations.\n\nIn international law, consequently, legal personality is a prerequisite for an international organization to be able to sign international treaties in its own name.\n\nArtificial personality, juridical personality, or juristic personality is the characteristic of a non-living entity regarded by law to have the status of personhood.\n\nA juridical or artificial person (; also juristic person) has a legal name and has certain rights, protections, privileges, responsibilities, and liabilities in law, similar to those of a natural person. The concept of a juridical person is a fundamental legal fiction. It is pertinent to the philosophy of law, as it is essential to laws affecting a corporation (corporations law).\n\nJuridical personhood allows one or more natural persons (\"universitas personarum\") to act as a single entity (body corporate) for legal purposes. In many jurisdictions, artificial personality allows that entity to be considered under law separately from its individual members (for example in a company limited by shares, its shareholders). They may sue and be sued, enter contracts, incur debt, and own property. Entities with legal personality may also be subjected to certain legal obligations, such as the payment of taxes. An entity with legal personality may shield its members from personal liability.\n\nIn some common law jurisdictions a distinction is drawn between \"corporation aggregate\" (such as a company, which has a number of members) and a \"corporation sole\" (which is where a person's public office is deemed to have a separate personality from them as an individual). Both have separate legal personality. Historically most corporations sole were ecclesiastical in nature (for example, the Archbishop of Canterbury is a corporation sole), but a number of other public offices are now formed as corporations sole.\n\nThe concept of juridical personality is not absolute. \"Piercing the corporate veil\" refers to looking at the individual natural persons acting as agents involved in a company action or decision; this may result in a legal decision in which the rights or duties of a corporation or public limited company are treated as the rights or liabilities of that corporation's members or directors.\n\nThe concept of a juridical person is now central to Western law in both common-law and civil-law countries, but it is also found in virtually every legal system.\n\nSome examples of juridical persons include:\n\n\nNot all organizations have legal personality. For example, the board of directors of a corporation, legislature, or governmental agency typically are not legal persons in that they have no ability to exercise legal rights independent of the corporation or political body which they are a part of.\n\nThe concept of legal personhood for organizations of people is at least as old as Ancient Rome: a variety of collegial institutions enjoyed the benefit under Roman law.\n\nThe doctrine has been attributed to Pope Innocent IV, who seems at least to have helped spread the idea of \"persona ficta\" as it is called in Latin. In canon law, the doctrine of \"persona ficta\" allowed monasteries to have a legal existence that was apart from the monks, simplifying the difficulty in balancing the need for such groups to have infrastructure though the monks took vows of personal poverty. Another effect of this was that as a fictional person, a monastery could not be held guilty of delict due to not having a soul, helping to protect the organization from non-contractual obligations to surrounding communities. This effectively moved such liability to individuals acting within the organization while protecting the structure itself, since individuals were considered to have a soul and therefore capable of being guilty of negligence and excommunicated.\n\nIn the common law tradition, only a person could sue or be sued. This was not a problem in the era before the Industrial Revolution, when the typical business venture was either a sole proprietorship or partnership—the owners were simply liable for the debts of the business. A feature of the corporation, however, is that the owners/shareholders enjoyed limited liability—the owners were \"not\" liable for the debts of the company. Thus, when a corporation breached a contract or broke a law, there was no remedy, because limited liability protected the owners and the corporation wasn't a legal person subject to the law. There was no accountability for corporate wrongdoing.\n\nTo resolve the issue, the legal personality of a corporation was established to include five legal rights—the right to a common treasury or chest (including the right to own property), the right to a corporate seal (i.e., the right to make and sign contracts), the right to sue and be sued (to enforce contracts), the right to hire agents (employees) and the right to make by-laws (self-governance).\n\nSince the 19th century, legal personhood has been further construed to make it a citizen, resident, or domiciliary of a state (usually for purposes of personal jurisdiction). In \"Louisville, C. & C.R. Co. v. Letson\", 2 How. 497, 558, 11 L.Ed. 353 (1844), the U.S. Supreme Court held that for the purposes of the case at hand, a corporation is \"capable of being treated as a citizen of [the State which created it], as much as a natural person.\" Ten years later, they reaffirmed the result of Letson, though on the somewhat different theory that \"those who use the corporate name, and exercise the faculties conferred by it,\" should be presumed conclusively to be citizens of the corporation's State of incorporation. Marshall v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 16 How. 314, 329, 14 L.Ed. 953 (1854). These concepts have been codified by statute, as U.S. jurisdictional statutes specifically address the domicile of corporations.\n\n\nThe term juridical person (\"pessoa jurídica\" in Portuguese) is used in legal science for designating an entity with rights and liabilities which also has legal personality. Its regulations are largely based on Brazil's Civil Code, where it is distinctly recognized and defined, among other normative documents.\n\nBrazilian law recognizes any association or abstract entity as a juridical person, but a registry is required through a Constitutional Document, with specifications depending on the category of Juridical Person and local law of state and city.\n\nArticle 19(3) of the German Constitution sets forth: \"Fundamental rights shall also apply to domestic artificial persons insofar as the nature of such rights shall permit.\"\n\nIn Italy trade unions have legal personality, as stated in Article 39, Paragraph 4 of the Constitution:\n\nSection 28 of the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990 provides: \"... the provisions of this Bill of Rights apply, so far as practicable, for the benefit of all legal persons as well as for the benefit of all natural persons.\"\n\nFor a typical example of the concept of legal person in a civil law jurisdiction, under the General Principles of Civil Law of the People's Republic of China, Chapter III, Article 36., \"A legal person shall be an organization that has capacity for civil rights and capacity for civil conduct and independently enjoys civil rights and assumes civil obligations in accordance with the law.\" Note however that the term civil right means something altogether different in civil law jurisdictions than in common law jurisdictions.\n\nIn part based on the principle that legal persons are simply organizations of natural persons, and in part based on the history of statutory interpretation of the word \"person\", the US Supreme Court has repeatedly held that certain constitutional rights protect legal persons (such as corporations and other organizations). \"Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific Railroad\" is sometimes cited for this finding because the court reporter's comments included a statement the Chief Justice made before oral arguments began, telling the attorneys during pre-trial that \"the court does not wish to hear argument on the question whether the provision in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which forbids a State to deny any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, applies to these corporations. We are all of the opinion that it does.\"\n\nLater opinions interpreted these pre-argument comments as part of the legal decision. As a result, because of the First Amendment, Congress may not make a law restricting the free speech of a corporation or a political action group or dictating the coverage of a local newspaper, and because of the Due Process Clause, a state government may not take the property of a corporation without using due process of law and providing just compensation. These protections apply to all legal entities, not just corporations.\n\nA prominent component of relevant case law is the Supreme Court decision \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\", which ruled unconstitutional certain restrictions on corporate campaign spending during elections.\n\nIn Act II, Scene 1 of Gilbert and Sullivan's \"The Gondoliers\", Giuseppe Palmieri (who serves, jointly with his brother Marco, as King of Barataria) requests that he and his brother be also recognized individually so that they might each receive individual portions of food as they have \"two independent appetites\". He is, however, turned down by the Court (made up of fellow Gondolieri) because the joint rule \"... is a legal person, and legal person are solemn things.\"\n\n\n\n\nMajor legal factors affecting business\n"}
{"id": "30971590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30971590", "title": "Lilienthal Gliding Medal", "text": "Lilienthal Gliding Medal\n\nLilienthal Gliding Medal – the highest soaring award in the world, established by Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI) in 1938 in honor of Otto Lilienthal, a German pioneer of human aviation. It aims \"to reward a particularly remarkable performance in gliding, or eminent services to the sport of gliding over a long period of time\". The award is made at the annual FAI General Conference. Medal was designed by Austrian artist Josef Humplik.\n\nThe first winner of the Lilienthal Gliding Medal in the world was Tadeusz Góra for his record-breaking 577.8-kilometer flight on May 18, 1938, glider PWS-101 from Bezmiechowa to Soleczniki (near Vilnius).\n\nThe Medal is awarded by a vote of the Delegates to the International Gliding Commission at the annual Plenary in March. In 2012 it was decided to end the practice of awarding the Medal for accomplishments of the previous calendar year, and to associate the Medal with the year in which the recipient is determined. Consequently, the year 2013 does not appear in the table below.\n\nRecipients of this award, from 1938 to present, include:\n\n"}
{"id": "353588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353588", "title": "Maurice Saatchi, Baron Saatchi", "text": "Maurice Saatchi, Baron Saatchi\n\nMaurice Nathan Saatchi, Baron Saatchi ( ; born 21 June 1946) is a British businessman, and with his brother, Charles, co-founder of the advertising agencies Saatchi and Saatchi and M&C Saatchi.\n\nMaurice Saatchi is the third of four sons born to Nathan Saatchi and Daisy Ezer, a wealthy Iraqi Jewish family in Baghdad, Iraq. Maurice's brothers are David (born 1937), Charles Nathan (born 1943) and Philip (born 1953). Nathan was a successful textile merchant and in 1947, he pre-empted a flight that tens of thousands of Iraqi Jews would soon make to avoid persecution and relocated his family to Finchley London. Nathan purchased two textile mills in north London and after a time re-built a thriving business. Eventually the family would settle into a house with eight bedrooms on Hampstead Lane in Highgate.\n\nSaatchi attended Tollington Grammar and graduated from the London School of Economics with a First class honours degree in Sociology in 1967. His first job was at Haymarket Publications where Maurice would form valuable relationships with Michael Heseltine, the Group Managing Director and with staff at the Haymarket's leading trade weekly for the ad industry \"Campaign\". He spent three years at Haymarket as Creative Director before leaving to join his brother Charles' fledgling ad agency.\n\nIn 1970, Saatchi, with his brother, formed the advertising agency Saatchi and Saatchi. They are credited with a number of successful advertising campaigns, most notably the \"Labour isn't working\" posters on behalf of the Conservative Party for the 1979 British general election and advertisements for the cigarette brand Silk Cut. Maurice Saatchi served as chairman of the firm which became the world's largest advertising agency. However, a shareholder revolt in 1994 ended the brothers' role in the company, and they founded a new company, M&C Saatchi, the following year. The new company has also been described as a success.\n\nMaurice Saatchi was created a life peer as Baron Saatchi, of Staplefield in the County of West Sussex on 4 October 1996. He sits in the House of Lords as a Conservative. Under the leadership of Iain Duncan Smith, Saatchi served as shadow Treasury spokesman in the Lords, forming a close relationship with Michael Howard, who was Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer. Saatchi argued for the simplification of the tax system and that the poorest eight million people in the United Kingdom should not pay income tax. In June 2014, he suggested that small businesses should pay no corporate tax and that investors in said small businesses should pay no capital gains tax in order to \"challenge cartel capitalism.\"\n\nAfter Howard became leader of the Conservatives in November 2003, Saatchi was appointed joint chairman of the party with Liam Fox. He had responsibility for running the party campaign for the 2005 general election, after which he stepped down. He published his reflections on the election campaign in a Centre for Policy Studies pamphlet \"If this is Conservatism, I am a Conservative\" in a chapter entitled \"How I Lost the Election\". Among his failings listed in the document, Saatchi highlighted the following:\n\nHe recommended that future Conservative leaders establish a \"moral purpose\" as an ideology and future direction for the Party.\n\nFollowing the death of his wife Josephine Hart to ovarian cancer, Maurice Saatchi has campaigned for a change to the UK law which, he believes, holds doctors back from using innovative treatments because they fear litigation. His Medical Innovation Bill was formally introduced in 2013 and was co-adopted by the government in its passage through parliament. The bill has enjoyed some popular support and favourable press coverage, but has drawn a critical response from some medical and legal bodies, patient groups and charities.\n\nHe is also chairman of the Finsbury Food Group plc, and is a Governor of the London School of Economics. Saatchi is a trustee of the Museum of Garden History, and also a director of the Centre for Policy Studies. He was also a trustee of the Victoria and Albert Museum from 1988 to 1996.\n\nHe is a previous recipient of St. George’s Society of New York's Medal of Honour, an award established in 1996 which recognizes those who have rendered exemplary service to British interests and/or the international community at large.\n\nHe and his brother founded the Saatchi Shul, an independent Orthodox Jewish synagogue in Maida Vale, London, England, in 1998.\n\nSaatchi's first wife was Gillian Osband, a children's book editor and writer whom he had known since childhood and whom he married in 1972. They divorced in 1984 and that same year he married the novelist Josephine Hart (1942–2011), whom he first met when they worked together at Haymarket Publications in 1967. She died on 2 June 2011.\n\nHis country property is a mock Tudor castle called Old Hall in Staplefield, West Sussex, built in 1842. There are sixty acres of parkland and ten acres of flowers, trees and lakes. Maurice Saatchi has a fondness for gardening, laid out the garden on the estate and built a conservatory to house semi-tropical plants. The property was the subject of a display article in \"Architectural Digest\" in January 1995.\n\nMaurice Saatchi and his brother Charles were listed at number 366 in the Sunday Times Rich List 2008, with an estimated wealth of £220m in advertising and art. In the Sunday Times Rich List 2009 they were listed at number 438.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47642780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47642780", "title": "Melva Bucksbaum", "text": "Melva Bucksbaum\n\nMelva Jane Bucksbaum (née Venezky; April 5, 1933 – August 16, 2015) was an American art collector, curator and patron of the arts.\n\nThe daughter of Russian Jewish immigrants to the United States, she was born in Washington, D.C. and attended the University of Maryland. \n\nBucksbaum served as the president of the Des Moines Art Center board. In 1996, Bucksbaum and her family endowed the Martin Bucksbaum Professorship in Urban Planning and Design at the Graduate School of Design at Harvard University in memory of her late husband.\n\nBucksbaum began serving on the Whitney Museum of American Art's board of trustees in 1996 and eventually became its vice chairwoman. In 2000 she and her family inaugurated the Melva Bucksbaum Prize with an award of $100,000 to an individual contemporary artist and an exhibition of the artist's work at the Whitney.\n\nBucksbaum collected over four hundred contemporary, impressionist, modernist and post-impressionist works, including pieces by Vanessa Beecroft, Gregory Crewdson, Nan Goldin, Robert Mapplethorpe, David Salle, Richard Serra, Terry Winters, Henri Mattisse and Su-en Wong. They also owned works by Peter Paul Rubens, In 2004–2005 Francesco Clemente painted a portrait of the couple. \n\nBucksbaum married Martin Bucksbaum in 1967. They had two sons, Gene and Glenn, and a daughter, Mary. He predeceased her in 1995, and she married Robert I. Goldman in 1998. In 2001 she married a third time to fellow Whitney trustee, Raymond J. Learsy. \n\nBucksbaum died at her home in Aspen, Colorado from bladder cancer on August 16, 2015 at the age of 82. She is survived by her third husband as well as her sons, Gene and Glenn Bucksbaum; her daughter, Mary Bucksbaum Scanlan; her stepchildren, Bill and Peter Lese and Olexa Mandelbaum; seven grandchildren; and six step-grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "9627319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9627319", "title": "Mike Fitzpatrick (footballer)", "text": "Mike Fitzpatrick (footballer)\n\nMichael Clifford \"Mike\" Fitzpatrick (born 28 January 1953) is an Australian businessman, sporting administrator and former professional Australian rules football player. He was chairman of the AFL Commission (football's governing body) from 2007 to 2017.\n\nFitzpatrick was raised in Perth and began his football career with in the West Australian Football League (WAFL). A ruckman, he played 97 games for the club between 1970 and 1974, playing in a premiership team in 1973 and winning the club's best and fairest award in his last two seasons. Fitzpatrick transferred to the Victorian Football League (VFL) for the 1975 season and represented until his retirement at the end of the 1983 season. He played in premierships in 1979, 1981, and 1982, and captained the club from 1980 to 1983. Fitzpatrick also represented both Western Australia and Victoria in interstate matches.\n\nA graduate of the University of Western Australia, Fitzpatrick interrupted his football career to study at St. John's College, Oxford, on a Rhodes Scholarship. After retiring from football he worked for the Victorian Treasury Department, and later worked in investment banking and funds management. Outside his commercial interests, Fitzpatrick served on the board of the Carlton Football Club from 1989 to 1995, and as chairman of the Australian Sports Commission from 1994 to 1997. He was appointed to the AFL Commission in 2003, and in 2007 replaced Ron Evans as its chairman. He retired from the position of chairman in April 2017 and was replaced by Richard Goyder.\n\nFitzpatrick was born in Hastings, Victoria, but moved to Perth, Western Australia, at a young age. He attended Churchlands Senior High School from 1966 to 1970 (including as head boy in his last year), and went on to study at the University of Western Australia, graduating with a Bachelor of Engineering degree in 1975.\n\nFitzpatrick made his senior debut for Subiaco during the 1970 WANFL season, aged 17. He was tall and at his peak, and played as a ruckman. During the 1973 season, Fitzpatrick represented Subiaco at the Championship of Australia, played in the grand final victory over (the club's first premiership since 1924), and was awarded the Outridge Medal as the club's best and fairest player. He won a second Outridge Medal in 1974, in both years finishing just ahead of Peter Featherby. In total, Fitzpatrick played 97 games in his five seasons at Subiaco, kicking 77 goals.\n\nHaving been targeted by Victorian recruiters for several years, Fitzpatrick transferred to Carlton for the 1975 VFL season. He played in all 24 of his team's matches and kicked 27 goals, including five against in just his second game. He finished equal eleventh in the Brownlow Medal, polling eleven votes. After the end of the season, Fitzpatrick moved to England to study at St. John's College, Oxford, having been named Western Australia's 1975 Rhodes Scholar. He returned to Australia during the 1976 English summer and managed twelve further games for Carlton, but in 1977 did not play at all. After graduating from Oxford with a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy, Politics and Economics, Fitzpatrick resumed his football midway through the 1978 season, although he had time for only two games that year.\n\nDuring the 1979 season, Fitzpatrick played every match for Carlton and kicked 36 goals, including four in a game against and . He recorded 13 disposals, five marks, and 18 hit-outs in the grand final victory over Collingwood, and at the end of the season was awarded the Robert Reynolds Trophy as Carlton's best and fairest player. Prior to the 1980 season, Fitzpatrick was appointed club captain in place of Peter Jones, who retired from playing in order to become head coach. The club lost consecutive finals in 1980, but subsequently won two premierships in two years, something they had not done since 1914/1915. Fitzpatrick was runner-up to Bruce Doull in the 1981 Norm Smith Medal and kicked two goals in the 1982 Grand Final. He missed several matches due to injury in 1983, and announced his retirement at the end of the season in order to concentrate on his business career.\n\nFitzpatrick made his state debut for Western Australia at the 1972 Perth Carnival, aged 19, as a reserve for Bob Beecroft against Tasmania. He played his first full matches the following season, against Victoria at VFL Park and against South Australia at Subiaco Oval. He also played two state games in 1974, one of which was a narrow seven-point loss to Victoria in which he kicked two goals. After moving to the VFL in 1975, Fitzpatrick's appearances for Western Australia became less frequent. He returned to the state team for the 1979 Perth State of Origin Carnival (after five years' absence), and made an additional five appearances over the next three years. In total, he played eleven matches for Western Australia between 1972 and 1982, kicking seven goals. Fitzpatrick was also eligible to represent Victoria in some matches where state of origin rules had not yet been fully implemented. He played two interstate games for Victoria, including one as captain in 1982.\n\nAt the end of the 1983 season he retired from football and began working as an adviser in the John Cain government's Victorian Treasury Department. His career then took him to New York where he worked for international investment banks Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse First Boston.\n\nIn 1994, he set up \"Hastings Funds Management\", a successful superannuations funds company of which 51 per cent was sold to the Westpac Bank in 2002.\n\nPositions held were:\n\nFitzpatrick was named in the Teams of the Century for both Subiaco and Carlton, including as captain of Subiaco. He was an inaugural inductee into the West Australian Football Hall of Fame in 2004. In 2011, the University of Western Australia awarded Fitzpatrick an honorary degree, as Doctor of Letters.\n"}
{"id": "17125314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17125314", "title": "Mitumba (clothing)", "text": "Mitumba (clothing)\n\nMitumba is a Swahili term, literally meaning \"bundles\", used to refer to plastic-wrapped packages of used clothing donated by people in wealthy countries. The term is also applied to the clothing that arrives in these bundles.\n\nOne major receiving port for Mitumba is in the Tanzanian city of Dar es Salaam. From there the clothing is widely dispersed into the interior of Africa. The transportation and sale of Mitumba is responsible for many jobs both in wealthy donor companies and in the African countries where Mitumba is bought and sold. Critics of the Mitumba trade note that the influx of cheap clothing is responsible for the decline of local textile industries. Proponents of Mitumba point out that the clothing is beneficial in that it stimulates economic activity and allows people with limited means to afford fashionable clothing.\n\nMitumba is usually packaged in plastic bundles prior to transport to Africa. Most of the Mitumba originates in developed countries such as the United States. Companies like Mid-West Textile Company of Texas purchase clothes that were donated to non-profit organizations such as Goodwill Industries. These clothes are then put into a conveyor belt and workers sort through them before making the bales or packages to be shipped to Africa. The practice of purchasing and the subsequent sale of clothes that were originally acquired as donations has received heavy criticism. However, defendants of the practice argue that not-for-profits organizations receive such large quantities of donations that they must indeed sell them in order to fund the several social projects they are involved with. The defendants go even further as to argue that if non-profit organizations were not able to sell most of their donations, they would not be able to survive nor fulfill their mission statements of helping the disadvantaged. The industry is one of the topics covered by professor Pietra Rivoli in her best-selling book, \"The Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33809990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33809990", "title": "Omar Harfouch", "text": "Omar Harfouch\n\nOmar Harfouch (Arabic: عمر حرفوش; born 20 April 1969 in Tripoli in Lebanon) is a businessman with dual Lebanese and French citizenship. Owner of a communications group in Ukraine, he is known in France for his participation in the reality show \"I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of here!\" and for his many appearances at jet set parties, in videos, and in celebrity magazines. He is a regular donor and guest at AMFAR charity dinner in Cannes.\n\nOmar Harfouch is of Lebanese origin. In Kiev, he and his brother Valid Arfush own the \"Supernova\" media group which includes the FM radio in Ukraine, radio Supernova. He is the publisher and editor of \"Paparazzi\", a magazine in Russian.\n\nHe made his fortune in Ukraine at the age of 28 (around 1997). He is also a Ukrainian composer. He organized the \"Elite Model Look\" contest in Ukraine from 1997 to 2000.\nDeclaring that \"the world of fashion needed a revolution,\" he and Walid founded a Geneva-based company in charge of organizing beauty contests in Ukraine in which the jury is composed of Internet users who can vote directly on the Internet. In 2002, he organized the final of Miss World Net in Tripoli, accompanied by Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, despite the international embargo that was imposed on the country at that time.\n\nHe became known to the general public in France in April 2006, when he took part in the reality show \"I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of here!\" for the benefit of \"Reporters Without Borders\". During the show, he became the center of a controversy when he said he was a victim of \"racist remarks\" (he has black skin) of Marielle Goitschel, who in turn claimed to have treated him as \"just a shrimp\" (\"minus\" in French). The French media became interested in him, so he participated in several shows like \"Capital\", which highlighted his personality, and \"Zone interdite\" on M6. He participated in the talk shows of Marc-Olivier Fogiel, Jean-Marc Morandini, and Laurent Ruquier.\n\nHe organized the Miss Europe competition with Endemol, initially presented on TF1, but the channel decided to sell it.\n\nIn May 2006, after participating in the radio broadcast of \"Cauet dechire\" on Fun Radio, he filed a complaint against Cauet for defamation and racial abuse for statements uttered during the show and published by the magazine \"Entrevue\" in July 2006. . A few months later, Cauet was found guilty of public defamation of an individual and sentenced to a 500 euro fine and one euro in damages.\n\nIn October 2006, he released a book, \"Mystères, scandales et... fortune\" (Mysteries, Scandals and... Fortune). The same year, he released his autobiography with a deliberately provocative title \"Omar Harfouch: Confessions of a millionaire\", in which he sets things straight with the French \"celebrity scene\" and the so-called \"presse people\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5088852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5088852", "title": "Paddington Waterside", "text": "Paddington Waterside\n\nThe Paddington Waterside Partnership is the body coordinating regeneration of the Paddington Special Policy Area around Paddington Station in London. The project covers an area almost the size of Soho, creating about of space between 1998 and 2018.\n\nIt consists of 13 individual projects in the triangle of land between Praed Street, Westbourne Terrace and the A40 Westway, most notably PaddingtonCentral and Paddington Basin. In 2000, the \"Independent\" described it as \"the largest central London redevelopment scheme since the Second World War\".\n\nThe Paddington Arm of the Grand Junction Canal opened on 10 July 1801, linking Paddington to the Bull's Bridge junction near the future site of Heathrow Airport. The Grand Junction (now part of the Grand Union Canal) was the final link in a chain of canals that reduced the distance from London to Birmingham from in 1789 to in 1805; terminating the canal at Paddington gave easy access to main roads into London and the level route meant no locks were needed on its length. In contrast the Regent's Canal needed 12 locks for the descent from Paddington to the Thames at Limehouse.\n\nThe canal was an instant success, with warehouses and housing springing up around it. Canal traffic increased further when the Regent's Canal linked Paddington to the Port of London in 1820, but Paddington Basin was \"practically killed\" as a port as business was lost to wharves such as City Road Basin that were closer to the docks and the City of London. Paddington regained importance as a transport interchange with the arrival of the railway in 1838.\n\nCanal traffic transferred to the railways during the nineteenth century and fell away completely after World War II; the closure of the Regent's Canal Dock in 1969 marked the coup de grâce. A similar switch from rail to road in the second half of the twentieth century left the Paddington goods yards redundant by the early 1980s. The land became derelict, with no public access to the canal land until 1987. The Paddington Special Policy Area was designated in 1988.\n\nThe Paddington Regeneration Partnership, later the Paddington Waterside Partnership, was formed in 1998 to coordinate the regeneration of the area, now designated as the Paddington Special Policy Area. This followed the establishment of the King's Cross Partnership in 1996 to develop a similar mix of railway and canal land around King's Cross station, a project that became known as King's Cross Central. The first plans for Paddington envisaged of new space, more than the original Canary Wharf development, in an area the size of Soho. This compares with the of 30 St Mary Axe (the \"Gherkin\") and of the skyscraper at One Canada Square. Outline planning permission for the western part of Paddington Basin was granted on 23 April 2001.\n\nBishop's Bridge station, the original London passenger terminus of the Great Western Railway was on this site west of Bishop's Bridge Road. After Paddington was built, it was used for the railway's goods sheds until the 1980s. It is now a mixed-use development, with offices, flats and retail units. Phase I is Sheldon Square which is named after Sir Joseph Sheldon, a Lord Mayor of London who in 1678 rebuilt what became the church of St Mary's on Paddington Green. Sheldon Square has of built space built around a grass amphitheatre which features live music in summer. The biggest structures are two office blocks of and let to companies such as Prudential and Kingfisher; there are 219 flats and of retail space. Sheldon Square was designed by Sidell Gibson and developed as a joint venture between Development Securities, Insight Investment Management and Aviva Investors.\n\nThe second phase of development lies to the west, along Kingdom Street. One Kingdom Street is a office building completed in February 2008 and occupied by Misys, Statoil, MWB and Vodafone. It was designed by Sheppard Robson and developed by Development Securities, Aviva Investors and Union Investment. Two Kingdom Street was due for completion in spring 2010 with AstraZeneca as the first tenant and has of office space with of residential accommodation. It was designed by Kohn Pedersen Fox and developed by Development Securities, Aviva Investors and Quinlan Private. The Novotel London Paddington is a distinctive 206 bedroom hotel at Three Kingdom Street. The hotel was designed by Dexter Moren Associates and Kohn Pedersen Fox and opened in September 2008. It is a joint venture between Development Securities and Aviva Investors.\n\nIn January 2010 Westminster Council granted detailed planning permission for the final phase of the development, Four and Five Kingdom Street. They will provide and of office space respectively.\n\nBritish Waterways intends to encourage activity on and around the canal north of the Westway up to Little Venice, with floating galleries, cafés and restaurants.\n\nDerwent London is employing Fletcher Priest as the architect for two sites off Bishop's Bridge Road, either side of the railway station. Planning permission was granted in January 2008 for two buildings at 55–65 North Wharf Road, a office block and a block of 100 flats east of the station. An eight-storey office block of has been built at 2 Eastbourne Terrace and is the London headquarters of the Rio Tinto Group. It stands on the site of Telstar House, a 1960s office block by Richard Seifert that suffered a major fire on 29 July 2003.\n\nFurther down Eastbourne Terrace, Land Securities have refurbished numbers 10, 20 and 30. In 2009 they sold numbers 40 and 50, of retail and office space. Westlink Global Investment Ltd, 60% owned by AMDB Bhd of Malaysia, paid £50.5m for a net rental yield of 8.65% based on the 94% occupancy at the time.\n\nThe construction of the Crossrail station to the west of Paddington Station means that the existing taxi rank has been moved north of the station and opened in spring 2011. A new entrance for the mainline station and a new ticket hall for the Hammersmith and City line has been constructed next to the canal.\n\nNicholas Grimshaw oversaw a £65m facelift of the mainline station that added of retail and catering space. The roof of Span 4 is currently being replaced in a £34m refurbishment due for completion by the end of 2010. Paddington will be an important hub for the Crossrail service, providing links to the mainline railway and the London Underground. The Crossrail station will be built between 2009 and 2015, with services due to start in 2017.\n\nMost of the land north of the canal basin is being developed under the banner of Merchant Square by European Land and Property as part of a joint venture between Simon and David Reuben (the Reuben brothers) and the Jarvis family. In all, the development around Paddington Basin will create of offices, homes, shops and leisure facilities, with the western end being developed first. Paddington Walk is a block of 232 flats designed by Munkenbeck & Marshall that completed in August 2005. The Point (224,000 sq ft) and Waterside (240,000 sq ft) are office blocks designed by Terry Farrell and Partners and the Richard Rogers Partnership respectively.\n\nThe original plan for the eastern end envisaged a commercial development focused around the Grand Union Basin and included the Winding building and the Grand Union building. The Richard Rogers Partnership originally designed the latter as three towers of 24, 32 and 40 floors rising to 164m, but the planners imposed a height limit of . The revised scheme comprised six linked blocks of 30 storeys totalling of mixed-use space, but the project was discarded when it looked like the site would be needed by the Health Campus (see below). \n\nThe Health Campus scheme collapsed in 2005 and in February 2006 the Paddington Development Corporation - now European Land and Property Ltd - submitted a new planning application. Branded as Merchant Square, this proposed of mixed-use space spanning 6 buildings, including 554 residential units and 58% commercial space. Planning permission was granted on 1 March 2007. A revised planning application was subsequently submitted and was approved on 19 May 2011. 4 Merchant Square, a 16-storey block of 196 flats, designed by Tryfon Kalyvides Partnership, is now complete; 5 Merchant Square (formerly Carmine) is a 14-storey office block of designed by mossessian & partners and part-occupied by Marks & Spencer, which also occupies the Waterside Building.\n\n3 Merchant Square, a 21-storey development of 159 luxury apartments and 42 standard apartments, is due for completion in summer 2014. 1 Merchant Square will be a residential tower of 42 storeys designed by Robin Partington Architects, which will be the tallest building in the City of Westminster, containing just over 200 residential units, a 90-room boutique hotel and a sky bar. 2 Merchant Square will be a 16-storey office building providing of Grade A space with of retail space. 6 Merchant Square will offer 119 apartments over 15 floors.\n\nA large square by the canal is planned for Merchant Square, along with business and retail barges moored alongside. The basin is known for its ingenious pedestrian bridges, such as The Rolling Bridge and the Fan Bridge, which has been operational since autumn 2014 and opens with the motion of a Japanese hand fan.\n\nSandwiched between the Westway and the canal basin, the 1.5-hectare site of the former North Westminster Community School was omitted from the Paddington Special Policy Area as it was expected to remain in use for education. The decision to build the Paddington Academy and Westminster Academy left the site available for redevelopment when the City of Westminster College moved to a new campus at the end of 2010. The planning brief proposed that \"around 80% of gross internal area delivered on the site should be allocated for residential use, with public open space, and supporting active uses that provide local employment.\"\n\nIn April 2012 Westminster City Council sold the site to Amwaj Property Limited, of Bahrain, which commissioned London-based Assael Architecture to design a residentially-oriented mixed-use development, the first phase of which was scheduled for completion in 2015 at an estimated cost of £71 million.\n\nSt Mary's is a major teaching hospital with a long tradition of biomedical research, from the first synthesis of heroin to the discovery of penicillin. It is housed in buildings dating back to 1845 between Praed Street and Paddington Basin. In October 2000, the London Regional Office of the NHS approved a plan for a Paddington Health Campus that would replace three run-down hospitals - St Marys, the Royal Brompton and Harefield. The initial cost was estimated at £411m at 2005 prices with completion in 2006, to be financed by PFI, but it became apparent that the scheme was too big for the original St Mary's site. Various locations north of the canal basin were investigated but the scheme was finally abandoned in May 2005 after costs had spiralled to £894m and the completion date put back to 2013. £15m was spent on the project, leading a member of the Commons Public Accounts Committee to describe it as \"an object lesson in how not to build hospitals...a shambles of the first order\", and a colleague called it \"incompetence on a massive scale\".\n\nThe land north of the canal that had been earmarked for the Health Campus became the Merchant Square development in Paddington Basin (see above). The planning application was formally withdrawn in May 2008 but St Mary's remains part of the Paddington Waterside Partnership. The only recent development work has been a £15m upgrade of the QEQM Wing.\n\nThe Great Western Royal Hotel on Praed Street was built as the station hotel in 1854. Muirgold Limited gave it a £60m refurbishment in 2002 and it was rebranded as the Hilton London Paddington.\n\nThe Royal Mail closed their sorting office in Praed Street in March 2010 and moved the counter service to West End Quay. A commercial development is envisaged for the site, along with a new ticket hall for the Bakerloo line and better access to the mainline station.\n\nRialto Homes and WestCity built three blocks of flats at the east end of the canal basin that were completed in 2003. West End Quay comprises 468 flats and of retail space, designed by Broadway Malyan.\n\nThe Metropole is a landmark hotel with 1058 bedrooms on the Edgware Road, next to the Marylebone flyover. Originally built in 1968, it was extended in 1986 and a conference centre was added in 1998-2000, making it the biggest convention hotel in Britain. Its tower was the tallest building in the area for many years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2798975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2798975", "title": "Paul Locatelli", "text": "Paul Locatelli\n\nThe Rev. Paul Leo Locatelli, S.J. (September 16, 1938 – July 12, 2010) was an American Jesuit priest, academic and certified public accountant. Locatelli served as the president of Santa Clara University from 1988 until 2008 before becoming chancellor of Santa Clara in 2008. He also held the post of Secretary of Higher Education for the Society of Jesus in Rome.\n\nLocatelli grew up on a ranch in the town of Boulder Creek, California, in the Santa Cruz Mountains, the second of three sons. The family grew their own walnuts and grapes for winemaking. His family had come to Boulder Creek from Italy in the 1890s. His father ran Locatelli Brothers Lumber, where Locatelli worked. His mother's family had immigrated from Italy to Oakland, California, where they opened and operated the Colombo Bakery.\n\nLocatelli was the first member of his family to attend college. He received a bachelor's degree in business at the University of Santa Clara, now Santa Clara University in 1960. Classmates at Santa Clara included CIA director Leon Panetta, who remained friends with Locatelli, and former Oakland A's owner Stephen Schott. Locatelli obtained a doctorate in business from the University of Southern California's Marshall School of Business.\n\nHe enlisted in the United States Army and decided to enter the Jesuits after leaving the armed services. Locatelli entered the former Jesuit School of Theology at Berkeley. He was ordained a Jesuit priest in 1974.\n\nLocatelli began teaching at Santa Clara University as a professor of accounting in 1974, the same year in which he was ordained a Jesuit priest. Within a few years, he was voted outstanding teacher of the year. He rose from Dean of the School of Business, to Academic Vice-President.\n\nLocatelli was named the 27th President of Santa Clara University in 1988 after 14 years at the university. During Locatelli's tenure as president, academics, admissions standards and endowment funding increased substantially.\n\nUnder Locatelli's presidency, Santa Clara University fully renovated or constructed nineteen new campus buildings, as well as a sports center. This is the equivalent of two-thirds of all campus facilities. A prolific fundraiser, Locatelli raised millions for the construction spree which included new academic buildings, a business school building, residence halls, a swim center, a tennis center, and the School of Arts and Science. He also raised funds for scholarships at Santa Clara. Locatelli phased out Santa Clara's fraternity and sorority houses, which lessened the influence of the Greek system on student life. Controversially, Locatelli eliminated the school's Division II football program in 1993.\n\nLocatelli spearheaded the effort to reroute The Alameda (California State Route 82), which had previously run through the center of Santa Clara University's campus. Locatelli also had a new entrance road, lined with palm trees, built which leads to the Mission Santa Clara de Asís, a 1777 Spanish mission which is now the centerpiece of Santa Clara's campus.\n\nLocatelli and Santa Clara University became involved with the Salvadoran Civil War during the late 1980s and early 1990s. He offered Santa Clara as a refuge to the lone surviving Jesuit of the 1989 massacre at the Universidad Centroamericana, in which six Jesuits, their housekeeper and her daughter were killed by the Salvadoran Army. (The surviving Jesuit priest had been out of El Salvador at the time of the killings). Father Locatelli also implemented a program where Santa Clara students volunteered and worked at a women's center and urban schools in El Salvador.\n\nUnder President Locatelli's guidance, Santa Clara's endowment at Santa Clara grew from $77 million in 1988 to approximately $700 million in 2008.\n\nThrough the Ignatian Center for Jesuit Education, the University has expanded its ability to connect students to communities in Silicon Valley and throughout the world. Locatelli was known affectionately by the students at SCU through a variety of nicknames; such as; \"Papa Lōc\", \"Big Poppa P\", \"P. Loc\", and the \"Big P\".\n\nOn March 1, 2008, Locatelli announced his intention to resign during the 2008–09 academic year, after 20 years as university president, due to his additional responsibilities as Secretary of Higher Education of the Society of Jesus in Rome, a post he had held since January 2007, coordinating the Jesuits 150 universities worldwide, to promote cooperation among Jesuit higher education institutions. He was subsequently promoted to chancellor of the university in November 2008 by new Santa Clara University President Michael Engh, S.J.\n\nOn January 16, 2002 he was awarded the Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice from San Jose Bishop Patrick Joseph McGrath.\n\nFather Locatelli was awarded the Spirit of Silicon Valley Lifetime Achievement Award from the Silicon Valley Leadership Group. He was also a recipient of the David Packard Award in 2009.\n\nLocatelli was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in May 2010. At the time Father Locatelli took ill, he was preparing for the fiftieth anniversary celebration and reunion of his classmates in the class of 1960 at Santa Clara University, and had already sent out invitations, including one to Leon Panetta. He was moved to the hospice at Regis Jesuit Infirmary in Los Gatos on July 8, 2010. He died from pancreatic cancer on July 12, 2010, at the age of 71.\nLocatelli was survived by his brothers, Albert and Harry. CIA Director, former Congressman and White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta, a 1960 Santa Clara classmate of Locatelli's, stated after Father Locatelli's death that, \"What Paul told you was always the truth. He didn't play games. You knew that what he said was what he believed. I don't think there is any question that he (Father Locatelli) will go down as one of the greatest presidents in Santa Clara history.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23607490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23607490", "title": "Postlethwaite &amp; Netterville", "text": "Postlethwaite &amp; Netterville\n\nPostlethwaite & Netterville, A Professional Accounting Corporation (abbreviated P&N), founded in 1949, is the largest Louisiana-based accounting and business advisory firm. P&N currently employs over 600 people in Louisiana through nine office locations. Its headquarters is in Baton Rouge, with other offices in Covington, Donaldsonville, Gonzales, Lafayette, Metairie, New Orleans, St. Francisville and Houston. Backed by 65+ years of experience, we are one of the largest CPA and consulting firms in the Gulf Coast region and the only Top 100 U.S. firm based in Louisiana.\n\nP&N provides assurance, tax, consulting, and technology services to individuals and businesses throughout the country. P&N is the brand under which Postlethwaite & Netterville (A Professional Accounting Corporation) and its affiliated or subsidiary entities (\"P&N and its affiliates and subsidiaries\") operate and provide services to clients. P&N and its affiliates and subsidiaries consist of the following entities: Postlethwaite & Netterville (A Professional Accounting Corporation), Postlethwaite & Netterville and Associates, L.L.C., Postlethwaite & Netterville, Inc., P&N Technologies, LLC, and Professional Association Management, Inc.\n\nGeorge P. Balhoff, CPA, CITP, FHFMA\nWilliam Balhoff, CPA/CFF, CFE, CGMA\nChad M. Becnel, CPA, CITP\nRobert B. Brickman, CPA\nTabatha Broussard, CPA\nLynne Burkart, CPA, CIA, CGAP, CFSA, CRMA, CGMA\nAaron Cancienne, CPA \nSharon Cassiere, CPA, CFP®\nRodney Combs, CPA, CGMA, CFSA, CGAP\nKeith Crews, CPA \nTiffani Dorsa, CPA\nDavid Edmond, CPA\nDan Gardiner, CPA, CITP, CGMA\nElaine Garvey, CPA \nPhilip Gunn, CPA, CGMA\nBrook Harvey, CPA\nKelly C. Hidalgo, CPA\nBonnie Marcantel, CPA, CGMA\nBrandon Lagarde, CPA, JD, LLM\nJon LeBlanc, CPA \nMichael L. LeBlanc, CPA\nJason MacMorran, CPA/ABV/CFF, CVA, MS\nVincent Milano, CPA, CGMA\nDavid J. Moore, CPA/CFF, CFE\nThomas Naquin, CPA\nJake Netterville, CPA \nBland H. O'Connor, CPA, CAE\nJohn Piland, CPA, CGMA \nRandall A. Plaisance, CPA\nWilliam C. Potter, CPA, JD\nGina Rachel, CPA \nWm. Steve Sandahl, CPA \nBrandy Smith, CPA \nLaura Soileau, CPA \nMark Staley, PMP\nFreddy Smith, CPA, CGMA\nBrian J. Stagg, CPA\nEdgar S. Starns, CPA, PFS\nRalph J. Stephens, CPA/ABV, JD, CFF\nCandace E. Wright, CPA, CFE, CFF\n\n1940s\n1949 – Alexander Postlethwaite opens the accounting practice that will become P&N.\n\n1950s\n1950 – Casey Lea joins Postlethwaite, creating Postlethwaite & Lea.\n\n1960s\n1967 – The firm acquires a practice in Donaldsonville, Louisiana.\n1968 – The firm name changes to Postlethwaite, Netterville, Evans and Major.\n\n1970s\n1977 – Jake Netterville assumes the Managing Partner role from Postlethwaite.\n\n1980s\n1983 – The firm shortens its name to Postlethwaite & Netterville.\n1985 – The St. Francisville office opens.\n1986 – The Baton Rouge office moves into its current location.\n\n1990s\n1990 – P&N receives the Baton Rouge Business Report's Company of the Year award.\n1996 – A second accounting practice is acquired in the greater New Orleans area.\n\n2000s\n2000 – The firm acquires a practice in Gonzales. \n2001 - P&N acquires a network integration company and forms P&N Tech. \n2002 - Bill Balhoff testifies before the U.S. Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on Thursday, March 14, 2002. He represented the AICPA PCPS membership on the \"trickle down\" effect of the pending Enron-related legislation on over 8,000 small to medium sized accounting firms.\n2003 – P&N adds a Northshore location. \n2003 - The firm receives the Greater Baton Rouge Better Business Bureau's Torch Award for Ethics in Business.\n2003 - The firm receives the Leading Edge Alliance's 2003 Innovative Firm of the year award based on its work with the Stelly Plan (named for former State Representative Vic Stelly of Lake Charles) online calculator.\n2008 – P&N acquires Legier and Materne in New Orleans. \n2008 – Bill Balhoff is named Managing Director and CEO. \n2009 – P&N acquires a practice in Lafayette.\n2013 - Bill Balhoff is named Chairman of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.\n2018 - Dan Gardiner is named Managing Director and CEO. \n\nP&N is a founding member of the Leading Edge Alliance, an alliance of major independently owned accounting and consulting firms with over 2,200 partners and 23,000 professional staff located in over 600 offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "13683082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13683082", "title": "Reyn Altin Johannes Lumenta", "text": "Reyn Altin Johannes Lumenta\n\nReyn (Rhein) Altin Johannes Lumenta (February 26, 1933 in Surabaya – September 28, 2003 in Jakarta) (or R.A.J. Lumenta) was the President and CEO of Garuda Indonesia, the Indonesian National Airline, in the period of 1984-1988, replacing Wiweko Soepono. Born in Surabaya, East Java, from a Manado ethnic family of Sulawesi, Lumenta grew up in Indonesia before continuing his education in the Netherlands. He graduated in “Vliegtuigbouw” from Hogere Technische School “Technicum” in Rotterdam in 1956. Having strong relation with Wagey and Saroinsong family clans.\n\nLumenta started his career in Garuda Indonesia as an Airframe and System Engineer (1957-1958). A year later he was promoted to be Head of Maintenance for Garuda’s aircraft and held various Director Positions afterwards until 1975 when he became Company Secretary.\n\nLumenta was CEO of Merpati Nusantara Airlines, a subsidiary of Garuda Indonesia, in the period of 1979-1983. He managed to convince the government to finance a major modernisation of Merpati, saving the company from debts and possible bankruptcy. Lumenta then returned to Garuda to become President and CEO in November 1984.\n\nAs President of the airline, Lumenta led a number of bold reforms in the organisation. On his arrival Garuda was in debts of around US$914 million. Under his leadership the company experienced increased popularity and profits.\n\nIn 1985 he created a controversy by hiring foreign brand consultants Landor Associates to create a new logo and colour scheme for Garuda Indonesia, a project that cost the company millions of US dollars. This move was later on applauded as vital for the reputation and corporate identity of Garuda Indonesia as the national airline.\n\nLumenta also increased flights frequency and destinations, reduced ticket prices and collaborated with Merpati, introducing flexible tickets valid for both Indonesian airlines.\n\nLumenta was also known for his solidarity and generosity to committed employees; he increased staff basic salaries by almost ten folds and improved staff reward and welfare systems.\n\nLumenta received “Bunga Seroja” award (1976) (see Indonesian invasion of East Timor) from HANKAM, the Indonesian Ministry of Security and Defense for his contribution in the mass transportation of aids and volunteers to East Timor.\n\nLumenta was a BMW motorcycle enthusiast, having toured Europe, South East Asia and Indonesia with his blue BMW touring motorcycle. Lumenta established Ikatan Motor Besar Indonesia (IMBI), an Association of Big Motorcycles in Indonesia in 1976.\n\nTogether with 15 other individuals, in July 1968 Lumenta participated in the establishment of Organisation of Amateur Radio Indonesia (ORARI), a local member of the International Amateur Radio Union (IARU). His code name was YB0BY.\n\nHis other hobbies included black-and-white photography, painting and writing, both in English and Indonesian language. Several of his books and journal articles were published, including Aerodinamika (Aerodynamics) (1985), Mixtures (1982-1984); an 11-series mini book on Radio Amateur, Bermotor (Motorcycling) (1988); about his motorcycle journey across Sumatra, Malaysia and Thailand. His final book Medan – Padang 1.450 (1992) was about his motorcycle trips around North Sumatra and West Sumatra in the same year.\n\nLumenta was a charismatic individual. As an executive, he was rarely suited, and was widely remembered wearing a navy blue jacket, almost always with a test pen in his pocket.\n\nHe died on 28 September 2003 and was buried on October 1 2003 in Joglo cemetery, West Jakarta. Lumenta married a few times and left his last wife and several children; Altin, Johan, Ronald, Alice, Joan, Rita, Lucy, and Lucky.\n"}
{"id": "54458632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54458632", "title": "Roberto Sahade", "text": "Roberto Sahade\n\n<nowiki></nowiki>\n\nRoberto Sahade (born May 29, 1976) is a Brazilian business man, founder of GMR Energia group, a family corporation, with investments in power generation in Latin America, mainly Brazil, Chile and Perú.\n\nOf Lebanese descent, he is the son of Moukbel Roberto Sahade, Brazilian entrepreneur in construction and real estate development sectors, and Ana Maria Spina Sahade, dentist.\n\nGraduated as civil engineer at Fundação Armando Alváres Penteado – FAAP, in 1998, and obtained his MBA from IBMEC-SP, in 2001. Has also done postgraduate studies at Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, in 2007, and at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, in 2011 and 2017, both in the United States, and Insead, Fontainebleau Campus, in 2009, in France.\n\nCurrently, is in charge of GMR Energia (2004), holding company with investments in CPFL Renováveis, in Brazil, and LAP – Latin America Power, in Chile and Peru.\n\nBefore graduating as a civil engineer, had already joined the family business activities. After founding the GMR group, started the expansion of the business in real estate, 1998, and in renewable power generation, 2004.\n\nIn 2007 created ERSA, currently CPFL Renováveis, publicly traded company on Bovespa, in partnership with Pátria Investimentos, Eton Park, Bradesco and DEG (KFW), and moreover, joined BTG Pactual. This company today is the largest renewable power generation in Latin America, with small hydro, wind, biomass and solar technologies. Was in charge until the end of 2011.\n\nThis same year, 2011, founded LAP – Latin America Power, a renewable power company with operations in Chile and Peru, corporation capitalized by the former partners BTG Pactual and Pátria/Blackstone. Was in charge until the June 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "42181890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42181890", "title": "Rosario Messina", "text": "Rosario Messina\n\nRosario Messina, (Aci Castello, December 1942 – Meda, March 9, 2011), was an Italian entrepreneur, who in 1978 founded the Italian company Flou, an avant-garde furniture manufacturer.\n\nRosario Messina was born in 1942 in the Sicilian city of Aci Castello in 1942. His father – a farmer – died when he was a young man, leaving him the responsibility of the family. He was the eldest of five children and in 1958, he began working for the La Rinascente department store in Catania, first as an apprentice, then as a salesperson and finally as head of department.\n\nSimultaneously, he attended evening courses in book-keeping and qualified in record time, managing to complete five academic years in one.\n\nFollowing his experience with La Rinascente, he worked in the local branch of Zanussi-Rex, the most important Italian manufacturer of electrical appliances at that time.\n\nIn the early Seventies, he was asked to work in the furniture-design sector: he joined the company C&B (now B&B Italia) as an account officer for Sicily and Calabria. He then moved to the north of the country as the company's sales manager. In 1976, he started working with Cinova, another leading sofa manufacturing company. He was appointed as the sales manager, responsible for general management.\n\nHis professional turning point appeared when the soft furnishings company, Bassetti, assigned him a difficult task: he was asked to launch 'the duvet', a product to replace the traditional blanket for beds.\n\nIt was a difficult undertaking, and made more complex by the opposition from the furniture dealers – the elective distribution channel – who opposed commercializing a low cost product distributed through other channels. Messina had a Eureka moment and intuitively felt that 'bed with the duvet' as opposed to duvet alone would be an overwhelming success.\n\nThis ingenious idea led to the foundation of the company Flou in 1978 and the presentation of the bed 'Nathalie' designed by Vico Magistretti, an article that unquestionably was the prototype of a new design direction: the modern textile bed.\n\nFlou was a true pioneer in the 'culture of sleep' and rapidly became a leader in the world of furnishings, making an important contribution to enhancing the image of Italian design in the world.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1998, Rosario Messina was President of the Gruppo Mobili Assarredo. From 1998, he was President of Assarredo, the trade association of Federlegno-Arredo that groups together the Italian furniture and furnishing industries. He was a member of the steering committee of the Council of Federlegno-Arredo, and was appointed to the same role with the industrial confederation Confindustria Monza e Brianza.\n\nIn 1999 he was appointed to the most prestigious position as President of Cosmit, the organizing body for Milan Furniture Fair.\nThis is the world's most important furniture exhibition and under his Presidency, the Milan Furniture Fair (and the collateral exhibitions of Euroluce (Lighting), Eurocucina (Kitchens), Salone del Bagno [Bathrooms], Salone del Complemento d'Arredo (Furnishing Accessories), Salone dell'Ufficio (Office), Salone Satellite (Collateral events) progressed from being a simple trade show to a spectacular event, with the promotion of important cultural events that consolidated Milan as the unchallengeable 'Design capital'. The Salon was transformed into a meeting place for questions and answers as well as being a platform for 360° proposals in all areas of design culture and innovation.\n\nThe last edition under his management took place in 2011: a total of 321,320 people visited the event (up 7% on 2010 and 2% on 2009) and the 'Satellite Salon' that was actively promoted by Messina; this spin-off initiative started quietly and today is the most prestigious stage for showcasing up-and-coming designers and architects from the specialist educational aspects around the world.\n\nIn June 2008, during the annual general meeting, Rosario Messina was elected President of Federlegno-Arredo, the organization of Confindustria that represents 2,300 companies in 12 associations (Assarredo [Furnishings], Assobagno [Bathrooms], Assoimballaggi [Packaging], Assolegno [Wood and Timber], Assoluce [Lighting], Assopannelli [Panels], Assufficio [Office], Edilegno [Timber houses], Fedecomlegno [The Italian National Timber Association], Asal Assoallestimenti [Stands and Layouts], Aippl [Wooden flooring and laying], Apil [Lighting]); these represent the entire section of timber-furnishings: from the raw materials to the finished product.\n\nHe was a councillor on the steering committee of the foundation 'Center for the development of Italo-Russian trade relations\".\n\nOn October 30, 2008, the then president of Confundustria, Emma Marcegaglia, appointed him as a delegate of the industrial confederation Confindustria and according to the constitution, he automatically held the position of Vice President of CFI (The Italian industrial confederation).\n\n\"Reason: \"Paul Harris 2002, the top award of the Rotary presented in recognition of a man who with commitment and determination led Flou to the leading position in the furnishing industry\".\"\n\"Reason: \"For the \"Innovation\" Category, Rosario Messina was recognized for the most creative and innovative vision that marked a turning point in corporate living, for the revolutionary vision of the domestic environment and the transformation of the bedroom into a space to be enjoyed to the full, with modern original ideas, giving rise to a new culture for living and sleeping. The bed covers can be completely removed and replaced, and the innovative and highly comprehensive range of bedroom accessories identify Flou on the world stage. They kick-started a powerful innovative drive in the distribution of the sector, influencing the frequency of visits to the stores and affecting the methods of interaction with the clients\".\"\n\nOn December 13, 2013, with a Decree issued by the General Council of the Lombardy Regional Government for Education, Training and Employment [Direzione Generale Istruzione, Formazione e Lavoro] approved and funded the project for the constitution of the new 'Rosario Messina Foundation for Further Education', and the definition of the course of study \"Superior Technique for processes, products, communication and marketing for the Timber-Furnishing sectors\" (Tecnico Superiore di processo, prodotto, comunicazione e marketing per il settore LegnoArredo).\n"}
{"id": "45599608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45599608", "title": "Samuel Cabot Jr.", "text": "Samuel Cabot Jr.\n\nSamuel Cabot Jr. (1784-1863) was an American businessman in the early-nineteenth-century China Trade, a member of the wealthy and prominent Cabot family.\n\nSamuel Cabot Jr. was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1784, the son of Samuel Cabot and Sally Barrett. In 1806, after a couple of years familiarizing himself with the East Indies trade, he set up business in Philadelphia, in partnership with Samuel Hazard. In 1808 he returned to Boston and married Eliza Perkins, a daughter of Thomas Handasyd Perkins. Together, they had seven sons, including Edward Clarke Cabot (b. 1818), later an architect and artist; James Elliot Cabot (b. 1821), who became a philosopher and author; and Samuel Cabot III, a surgeon and ornithologist.\n\nAfter marrying Eliza, Samuel then went into business with his brother Joseph and with John W. Perit, taking charge of the Philadelphia-based partnership's Boston office.\n\nHe entered the China Trade in 1817, in yet another family partnership, with his Perkins in-laws. He retired from business in 1838, one of the richest merchants in New England.\n"}
{"id": "39111938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39111938", "title": "Samvel Karapetyan (businessman)", "text": "Samvel Karapetyan (businessman)\n\nSamvel Karapetyan (born July 31, 1965) is an Armenian-born Russian billionaire businessman, the owner of the real estate company Tashir Group.\n\nKarapetyan graduated from the Yerevan Polytechnic Institute in 1986. He moved to Russia in the 1990s and in 1997, he became the president of the Kaluga-based Kalugaglavsnab OAO, which provides logistics services. In 1999, he established the Tashir Group.\n\nHe is married and has three children (two sons and a daughter). \n\nHis brother, Karen (), is a politician from the Republican Party of Armenia and a member of the National Assembly.\n\nIn 2011, Armenian President awarded Karapetyan with the Mesrop Mashtots Medal \"for significant contribution to the promotion of national interests, long term and fruitful pro-Armenian activities, dedication to the development and advancement of the Republic of Armenia and provided services.\"\n\nIn November 2017, he was appointed the president of the football club FC Ararat Moscow.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", his net worth in February 2015 was $4.0 billion. In March 2013 Karapetyan became the richest ethnic Armenian in the world, overtaking Armenian-American businessman Kirk Kerkorian.\n"}
{"id": "1914222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914222", "title": "Shakir al Khafaji", "text": "Shakir al Khafaji\n\nShakir al Khafaji (born 1955) is a Detroit-based Iraqi-American businessman. He immigrated to the United States in 1975. He graduated with a B.S. degree in architecture from Lawrence Tech University in 1980. He received an M.S. in Urban Planning in 1982 from Wayne State University, Detroit, MI.\n\nMr. al Khafaji is a senior executive, with nearly four decades of business experience. He is Chairman of Veritas Automotive and Machinery, LLC, with an office in Southfield, Michigan. He has deep knowledge of Iraqi culture and society. He was born into a merchant family in Baghdad, and attended schools with many of the governmental leaders in the Middle East. Over the years, Mr. al Khafaji has engaged in an extensive number of business activities, including commercial trade with Iraq and the Middle East. As a result of his unique position, he has been able to play a role in the development and implementation of U.S. policy with respect to Iraq for over twenty years. He continues to maintain close relationships with business and political leaders in that region. \n\nHe was chairman of the 17th conference of Iraqi expatriates.\n\n"}
{"id": "38670553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38670553", "title": "Smith Brandon International", "text": "Smith Brandon International\n\nSmith Brandon International, Inc. (SBI) is an American boutique corporate investigations and risk consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. It was founded in 1996 by Gene M. Smith and Harry \"Skip\" Brandon and today employs a worldwide network of investigators, including former heads of law enforcement agencies, political figures and professionals with legal, financial and intelligence backgrounds. SBI offers a range of services, including high-level political analysis, global due diligence, risk avoidance, corporate investigations, financial investigations, political risk assessments and business intelligence services.\n\nSBI does not disclose the names of its clients or the specifics of its projects. However, SBI's clients include domestic and foreign Fortune 50 companies, as well as small- and medium-sized companies, working internationally in many industries, such as banking, oil, mining and timber. With assistance from its international network of contacts in the intelligence, business and diplomatic communities, SBI has worked across North America, Latin America, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and India. Ninety-five percent of their work is outside of the U.S.\n\nFounders Smith and Brandon have had close ties with U.S. governmental agencies; Smith was an agent for the CIA and Brandon was deputy assistant director of the National Security and Counter Terrorism programs for the FBI. Both have contributed to various industry journals, such as the Harvard Business Review, and have spoken at various conferences and on national radio programs, including NPR’s Talk of the Nation.\n"}
{"id": "15971054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15971054", "title": "Stanford Entrepreneurship Corner", "text": "Stanford Entrepreneurship Corner\n\nStanford Technology Ventures Program (STVP) Entrepreneurship Corner (ECorner) (Formerly Educators Corner) is a free online archive of entrepreneurship resources for teaching and learning. The purpose of the project is to support and encourage faculty around the world who teach entrepreneurship to future scientists, engineers, managers, and others. The site has been developed by a team of educators, entrepreneurs, engineers, and designers at the Stanford Technology Ventures Program (STVP).\nThe project has been financially supported by Stanford University and a number of sponsors. Other collaborators in its creation include the Stanford Center for Professional Development and Stanford Video.\n\nThe design of the archive is based on feedback from entrepreneurship educators regarding the challenges faced when teaching entrepreneurship. Resources include video clips, podcasts, syllabi, books, conferences, and listings of entrepreneurship programs.\n\nThe STVP Entrepreneurship Corner is partnering with London Business School, the Strascheg Center for Entrepreneurship in Munich, and the Centre for Scientific Enterprise Limited (CSEL) in developing shared resources and content.\n\nThe Stanford Technology Ventures Program (STVP) is the entrepreneurship education and research center located within the School of Engineering at Stanford University. The center is hosted by the department of Management Science and Engineering. The purpose of the center is to accelerate high-technology entrepreneurship research and education for engineers and scientists worldwide. STVP supports academic research on high-technology entrepreneurship and teaches a wide range of courses to science and engineering students on campus. Outreach programs include annual conferences, campus-wide collaboration, and dissemination of teaching content through the Entrepreneurship Corner website.\n\nSpeakers include Guy Kawasaki (The Art of the Start Author), Mark Zuckerberg (Facebook founder) and Larry Page (Google Co-founder). There are also speakers from companies including Mozilla, Hewlett Packard, Electronic Arts and Tesla Motors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49348421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49348421", "title": "Taavi Kotka", "text": "Taavi Kotka\n\nTaavi Kotka (born 21 January 1979) is an IT visionary and previously the Chief information officer of the Estonian Government known for leading e-residency program. Between years 2005-2012, Kotka was the CEO of Nortal (then named Webmedia), one of the largest software development companies in the Baltic states. Taavi Kotka (alongside Ruth Annus, and Siim Sikkut) proposed \"10 million e-residents by 2025\" on idea contest by Estonian Development Foundation in 2014.\n\nIn April 2015, the Vice President of European Commission, Andrus Ansip, assigned Taavi Kotka to be his Special Adviser on Digital Single Market issues and e-Governance. \n\nKotka started his career as a programmer, rising to be a Managing Director of the largest software development company in the region – Webmedia (now Nortal), one of largest software development companies in Baltic states.. As an engineer, he has been the brainpower behind many Estonian e-government innovative initiatives like e-residency (digital citizenship), data embassies, country in the cloud, no-legacy policy, VAT fraud detection etc. He is also a special advisor to European Commission vice-president Andrus Ansip on European Digital Single Market .\n\nMaster of Science of Engineering (focus: ICT) and PhD Studies in Tallinn University of Technology.\nHe was the president of the Estonian Association of Information Technology and Telecommunications (ITL) and he was elected as an Entrepreneur of the year in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13149064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13149064", "title": "Vjatšeslav Leedo", "text": "Vjatšeslav Leedo\n\nVjatšeslav Leedo (born 1952) is the stockholder of Saaremaa Shipping Company, and due to a number of controversial remarks, commonly recognised as the 'face' of the company. Particularly known are his frequently voiced opposition towards building a bridge between Virtsu and Kuivastu, a transit route currently served by Saaremaa Shipping Company, and yearly allegations regarding his orders, supposedly deliberately too early, to begin ice breaking on the route. This procedure breaks the ice road between Virtsu and Kuivastu. The ice road is free to use for everybody, but when it's broken, transit must be done by ferry service, and this profits Saaremaa Shipping Company.\n\n"}
