{"id": "3538838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3538838", "title": "Actual innocence", "text": "Actual innocence\n\nActual innocence, also known as plain error, is a special standard of review in legal cases to prove that a charged defendant did not commit the crime(s) that he or she is accused of, which is often applied by appellate courts to prevent a miscarriage of justice. What makes the actual innocence standard interesting is that it may be invoked at any time, and not only in criminal proceedings but also in immigration and other civil proceedings.\n\nIn its most literal sense, \"actual innocence\"—more properly understood as a claim that the prosecution has failed to prove factual guilt beyond a reasonable doubt—is a very commonly raised defense to a crime. Claims of actual innocence may involve disputing that any crime occurred at all, or that the accused was the perpetrator of the criminal act. Arguably, even affirmative defenses such as \"self-defense\", insanity, or \"mistake of fact\" qualify as \"actual innocence\" claims because while in those cases the accused admits to both his or her identity as the actor and to the existence of the act (\"actus reus\"), he or she is claiming that the State cannot prove that he or she had the requisite mental state (\"mens rea\") to constitute a crime.\n\nHowever, the specific term \"actual innocence\" is most often used in the context of someone convicted for a crime he or she did not commit. Claims of \"actual innocence\" are, in that sense, usually raised in post-conviction challenges to a conviction. The Tarlton Law Library at the University of Texas at Austin maintains an \"Actual Innocence awareness database\" containing \"resources pertaining to wrongful convictions, selected from the popular media (such as newspaper articles and segments which aired on television news magazines), journal articles, books, reports, legislation and websites\".\n\nIn the United States, establishing \"actual innocence\" after a conviction may be considerably more difficult than winning an acquittal at trial, however. At trial, the defendant enjoys a due process right to the presumption of innocence, and the State is obligated to prove the guilt of the accused beyond a reasonable doubt. See, e.g., \"Cochran v. United States\", 157 U.S. 286, 299 (1895). However, \"innocence\" is a factual question, and once a fact-finder—judge or jury—makes a factual determination, appellate and post-conviction courts generally are bound by those factual determinations. Appeals and post-conviction cases, by their very nature, focus on legal errors, not factual disputes. Indeed, it is unclear whether proof of actual innocence is, in and of itself, grounds for appellate reversal. \"Herrera v. Collins\", 506 U.S. 390 (1993)\n\nA convicted person has two avenues for attacking the validity of his or her conviction and/or sentence. The first is direct appeal. Direct appeals are limited in number and scope, and address only those issues raised in the lower court. The second method of attacking the validity of a conviction is known as \"collateral\" review, and can take many forms, including state and federal petitions for writs of habeas corpus, petitions for writs of error coram nobis, and—increasingly—a newly developed form of collateral relief which allows petitioners to raise claims of actual innocence, whether through DNA testing or through some other method. Thus, it is in collateral, post-conviction filings that claims of actual innocence are most likely to be considered.\n\nBecause the prosecution must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, a defendant asserting actual innocence need only raise a reasonable doubt as to whether they were the person who committed a particular crime, or whether the acts that they committed amount to the commission of a crime. In point of fact, the defendant is not obliged to present a defense at all.\n\nExamples of an actual innocence defense include:\n\nMany celebrated criminal cases have rested solely on the defense that the defendant did not commit the crime—for example, O.J. Simpson, Robert Blake, and Michael Jackson all claimed that they simply had not committed the acts charged. By contrast, defendants such as Jeffrey Dahmer, Susan Smith, and Lorena Bobbitt conceded that they committed the criminal act, but raised defenses such as insanity or diminished capacity. Other defendants, such as George Zimmerman, conceded that the act was committed, but asserted that it was justified, and therefore not a crime.\n\nBecause most forms of post-conviction collateral relief are limited to procedural or Constitutional flaws in the trial itself, claims of \"actual innocence\" generally are recognized only in those states which have adopted specific \"actual innocence\" statutes. Otherwise, in order to obtain post-conviction collateral relief, a defendant must often plead a specific statutory grounds for relief, i.e., that the conviction was obtained in violation of the Constitution of the United States. In jurisdictions that restrict a court's power to hear a post-conviction petition to a time period defined by statute, the court cannot grant post-conviction relief upon expiration of the time period regardless of the discovery of proof of \"actual innocence\" of the crime for which he was convicted. The jurisdictional bar is often rationalized by citing the requirement of finality of the judicial process in order to maintain the integrity of the system. While some argue that this is unjust for the convicted, it is rationalized that continued specter of \"actual innocence\" after the conclusion of a trial would make the adjudication process moot, which may lead to rule of law problems.\n\nIn the United States, this tradition has been heavily revised. As DNA testing grew more sophisticated, every state adopted statutes or rules allowing newly discovered DNA results to form the basis of a challenge to a conviction on grounds of \"actual innocence\". The scope and breadth of an inmate's ability to bring a DNA-based claim of actual innocence varies greatly from state to state. The Supreme Court has ruled that convicted persons do not have a constitutional due process right to bring DNA-based post-conviction \"actual innocence\" claims. \"District Attorney's Office v. Osborne\", 557 U.S. 52 (2009). Thus, the way such claims are handled may vary greatly from one jurisdiction to the next.\n\nFollowing reports of a sizable number of DNA-based exonerations, some states also have adopted broader \"actual innocence\" statutes allowing post-conviction challenges on the basis of newly discovered evidence in general. The Commonwealth of Virginia adopted such a law in 2004, subjecting petitioners to a very high standard of proof to overturn a conviction: that \"the previously unknown or unavailable evidence is material and, when considered with all of the other evidence in the current record, will prove that no rational trier of fact would have found proof of guilt or delinquency beyond a reasonable doubt.\" Va. Code Ann. § 19.2-327.11. Upon the presentation of such evidence, the Virginia Court of Appeals (its intermediate appellate court) may reverse the conviction. In 2009 the State of Maryland adopted a law with a significantly lower standard: the new evidence must \"create[] a substantial or significant possibility that the result may have been different[.]\" Md. Code Ann., Crim. Pro. Art. §8-301. However, the Maryland law allows for a retrial rather than a summary reversal. The State of Utah has adopted an actual innocence statute. The legislatures of Wyoming and Missouri were considering similar laws in 2013.\n\nEven in those jurisdictions without formal \"actual innocence\" provisions in their post-conviction statutes, actual innocence can have a procedural effect, in that it will excuse procedural default and permit the filing of a successor collateral relief petition. This is based on the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in \"Schlup v. Delo\", 513 U.S. 298 (1995), in which a death row inmate filed a second federal habeas corpus petition, asserting as substantive claims the claims that his trial lawyer had ineffectively failed to present alibi witnesses and that the Government had wrongly concealed exculpatory evidence. Schlup also argued that he was actually innocent—not because that was a substantive ground for relief, but because his actual innocence excused his failure to raise his ineffective-counsel and prosecutorial-nondisclosure claims in his state court pleadings and in his first federal habeas petition. Whether or not relief was to be granted, the \"Schlup\" Court held, depended on the merits of his ineffective counsel and prosecutorial nondisclosure claims.\n\nBecause pleading in the alternative is generally permitted in criminal cases, a defendant may claim to have not committed the crime itself, but at the same time may claim that \"if\" the defendant had committed the crime, the act was excused for a reason such as insanity or intoxication, or was justified due to provocation or self-defense. Such claims are, for obvious reasons, difficult to present to juries, because they entail arguing both that the defendant did and did not commit the crime alleged.\n\nMuch of U.S. criminal law is derived from the English common law, whose standard analysis is that (with the exception of strict liability offenses) a crime is made up of two parts: (i) the guilty act (\"actus reus\") (ii) and the guilty intention (\"mens rea\"). A court examines the issues in sequence since there is little point in establishing intent if the accused did not commit the act. The court will convict only if the \"actus\" and the \"mens\" are shown beyond reasonable doubt. If convicted, the accused may contest either or both of the findings of \"actus\" or \"mens\". England does not have the specific concept of \"actual innocence\" but the courts are concerned to ensure that an innocent person is not subject to a criminal penalty. The appeal process will not impose an onus of proof of \"beyond reasonable doubt\" to show innocence, but (even if the process takes years) a court will allow new evidence to be adduced if it tends to show that the accused did not (or could not) commit the crime. The United Kingdom, like all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, is a signatory to the European Convention of Human Rights, and is prohibited by Article 3 from using the death penalty so there is no longer the fear that an innocent man may be executed. The case of prisoner Troy Davis, executed 21 September 2011, illustrates the difficulties that a person has, once convicted, to prove his \"actual innocence\" in the U.S.\n\n"}
{"id": "35856836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35856836", "title": "Albany Law Journal of Science and Technology", "text": "Albany Law Journal of Science and Technology\n\nThe Albany Law Journal of Science and Technology (\"Bluebook\" abbreviation: \"Alb. L.J. Sci. & Tech.\") is a triannual law journal edited by students at Albany Law School. It was established in 1990 and covers legal issues involving science and technology. The Volume 28 editor-in-chief is Anneliese Aliasso. The journal also organizes an annual symposia.\n\nMembers are students at Albany Law School. Students become eligible for journal membership upon completion of their first year of law school. Offers of membership are extended based on student class standing or on the results of a writing competition jointly administered by the school's three student-edited journals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11607704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11607704", "title": "Almedalen Week", "text": "Almedalen Week\n\nThe Almedalen Week (\"Almedalsveckan\", also known as Politician's Week in Almedalen, \"Politikerveckan i Almedalen\") is an annual event taking place in week 27 in and around Almedalen, a park in the city of Visby on the Swedish island Gotland.\n\nWith speeches, seminars and other political activities, it is considered to be the most important forum in Swedish politics. During the week, representatives from the major political parties in Sweden take turns to make speeches in Almedalen.\n\nIt has inspired similar events to be held in other countries, like Suomi-Areena in Finland, Arendalsveckan in Norway, Arvamusfestival in Estonia and Folkemødet at the island of Bornholm in Denmark.\n\nThe origin of the Almedalen Week was the speeches made by Olof Palme during several summers in Almedalen. He was in Visby because he and his family used to spend their summers at Fårö. It started with an improvised gathering that Palme, then education minister and candidate for the position of party leader for the Social Democratic party, and another party leader candidate, Krister Wickman had on 25July 1968. Palme made his speech from the back of a flatbed truck at Kruttornet by the Almedalen park. The audience was a couple of hundred people.\n\nBecause of the origin of the Almedalen Week, Almedalen is sometimes nicknamed \"Palmedalen\".\n\nThe first official Almedalen Week took place in 1982, when the Social Democrats started to organise economic seminars. As a response, the other political parties started to take a more active part. The first time all of the major party leaders were present was in 1982.\n\nIn the middle of the 1980s, the week almost ceased to be. In the summer following the assassination of Olof Palme in 1986, only the Green Party and the Left Party\nwere present. The rest of the parties expressed that political speeches in Almedalen were too associated with Palme as a person. Ingvar Carlsson, who became prime minister after Palme's death, said that he chose to hold his speeches at other locations in Visby during the following years out of respect for Palme. He only started speaking in Almedalen after having been persuaded to do so by Palme's widow, Lisbet Palme.\n\nIn recent years, the event has grown larger, with hordes of journalists, lobbyists, local and national politicians, employees from local, regional and national organisations and representatives of non-governmental organizations all coming to Visby to meet, discuss politics and socialize. , it is the biggest and most important forum in Sweden for seminars, debates and political speeches on current social issues. In 2014, 3,513 activities were held, 866 journalists were accredited and over 30,000 participants were at the event. One important factor is that all seminars are free of charge. The absolute majority of them are also open to everybody.\n\nThe number of activities, participants and journalists covering the week has increased during the years. These are the official numbers:\n\nAlmedalen Week is an annual event taking place in week 27 in and around Almedalen, a park in the city of Visby. It is coordinated by Gotland Municipality and the cost of the different activities is carried by the organization responsible for it. Each day of the week is dedicated to one of the political parties represented in the Riksdag, on a rotating schedule. In 2011, the number of days were extended to eight since there were then eight parties in the Riksdag. A number of other lobbyists, organizations, companies and representatives from municipalities and countries are also present.\n\nWith the increasing numbers of activities it has become more difficult for the individual participants to get noticed by spectators and the media. This has resulted in a number of spectacular actions during the years. In 2010, the spokesperson for the Feminist Initiative, Gudrun Schyman, burned SEK 100,000 during a speech about the inequality in wages for men and women. In 2005, actress Kim Anderzon, artist Ernst Billgren, musician Olle Ljungström, among others, declared that a new party, the \"Kulturpartiet\" (the Cultural Party), had been created and that they were candidates for the Riksdag.\nIt was later declared that the party had been a elaborate hoax created by the Riksteatern to raise awareness for cultural issues.\n\nPolitical scientist Maria Wendt has criticized the Almedalen Week and states that it has clarified how much politics in Sweden have become dependent on media, and now conforms to the terms and tools of the press, TV, radio and websites. Wendt says that whereas earlier media would report what went on in politics, it is presently more common to have debates taking place in the media itself. The language and messages delivered by politicians are conformed to fit in the frames provided by TV and newspapers, making comments short, powerful and lacking in nuances. The Almedalen Week is an event where such shortcomings are becoming more visible, according to Wendt. She suggested that instead of dedicating each day to one of the parties, the days should be used to highlight specific issues.\n\nDuring the Almedalen Week journalists, politicians and lobbyists socialize in a way that under normal circumstances would not be considered correct. This has been compared to a liminal phase, a term used in social anthropology for when normal rules cease to apply for a short while, like during carnivals, after which everything returns to normal. What has previously been taboo, is allowed for a short while.\n\nSimilar events have been held in Finland, Denmark and Norway. The Finnish event is called SuomiAreena, started in 2006 in the city of Pori. The Danish event Folkemødet was started in 2011, on the Bornholm island. A Norwegian version of the week was held at Eidsvoll. The event was scheduled to take place in Arendal again in 2011, but was postponed because of the 2011 Norway attacks. The event is now back. In 2007, a South Korean delegation came to Visby to study the concept of the Almedalen Week. According to political scientist Yonhyok Choe, the island of Jeju is a likely candidate for the event. In 2013, the Arvamusfestival in Estonia was started.\n\nAlmedalen Week visitor Dennis Kucinich commented on the event:\n\nIn 2014, the Almedalen Week was profiled by the US program \"Democracy Now!\".\n\nThese are the main speakers since 1968 in chronological order.\n"}
{"id": "24750528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24750528", "title": "Anthony McKinney murder conviction controversy", "text": "Anthony McKinney murder conviction controversy\n\nAnthony McKinney was a prisoner convicted of killing a security guard in 1978 in Harvey, Illinois. He was the subject of a Medill Innocence Project effort to reinvestigate his case and determine if he was wrongfully convicted. The case obtained notoriety after the Cook County state's attorney subpoenaed the Medill School of Journalism students' grades, class syllabus, and personal e-mails. This case is relevant to issues of Freedom of the Press because of the subpoena of journalism school class records as well as issues relating to possible wrongful conviction.\n\nAnthony McKinney died on 27 August 2013 of a suspected heart attack in his cell at Dixon Correctional Center in northern Illinois, after thirty-five years in prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35925403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35925403", "title": "Appeal", "text": "Appeal\n\nIn law, an appeal is the process in which cases are reviewed, where parties request a formal change to an official decision. Appeals function both as a process for error correction as well as a process of clarifying and interpreting law. Although appellate courts have existed for thousands of years, common law countries did not incorporate an affirmative right to appeal into their jurisprudence until the 19th century.\n\nAppellate courts and other systems of error correction have existed for many millennia. During the first dynasty of Babylon, Hammurabi and his governors served as the highest appellate courts of the land. Ancient Roman law employed a complex hierarchy of appellate courts, where some appeals would be heard by the emperor. Additionally, appellate courts have existed in Japan since at least the Kamakura Shogunate (1185–1333 CE). During this time, the Shogunate established \"hikitsuke\", a high appellate court to aid the state in adjudicating lawsuits. In the Eighteenth century, William Blackstone observed in his Commentaries on the Laws of England that appeals existed as a form of error correction in the common law during the reign of Edward III of England.\n\nAlthough some scholars argue that \"the right to appeal is itself a substantive liberty interest\", the notion of a right to appeal is a relatively recent advent in common law jurisdictions. In fact, commentators have observed that common law jurisdictions were particularly \"slow to incorporate a right to appeal into either its civil or criminal jurisprudence\". For example, the United States first created a system of federal appellate courts in 1789, but a federal right to appeal did not exist in the United States until 1889, when Congress passed the Judiciary Act to permit appeals in capital cases. Two years later, the right to appeals was extended to other criminal cases, and the United States Courts of Appeals were established to review decisions from district courts. Some states, such as Minnesota, still do not formally recognize a right to criminal appeals.\n\nAlthough some courts permit appeals at preliminary stages of litigation, most litigants appeal final orders and judgments from lower courts. A fundamental premise of many legal systems is that appellate courts review questions of law \"de novo\", but appellate courts do not conduct independent fact-finding. Instead, appellate courts will generally defer to the record established by the trial court, unless some error occurred during the fact-finding process. Many jurisdictions provide a statutory or constitutional right for litigants to appeal adverse decisions. However, most jurisdictions also recognize that this right may be waived. In the United States, for example, litigants may waive the right to appeal, as long as the waiver is \"considered and intelligent\".\n\nThe appellate process usually begins when an appellate court grants a party's petition for review or petition for certiorari. Unlike trials, appeals are generally presented to a judge, or a panel of judges, rather than a jury. Before making any formal argument, parties will generally submit legal briefs in which the parties present their arguments. Appellate courts may also grant permission for an \"amicus curiae\" to submit a brief in support of a particular party or position. After submitting briefs, parties often have the opportunity to present an oral argument to a judge or panel of judges. During oral arguments, judges often ask question to attorneys to challenge their arguments or to advance their own legal theories. After deliberating in chambers, appellate courts will issue formal opinions that resolve the legal issues presented for review.\n\nWhen considering cases on appeal, appellate courts generally affirm, reverse, or vacate the decision of a lower court. Some courts maintain a dual function, where they consider both appeals as well as matters of \"first instance\". For example, the Supreme Court of the United States primarily hears cases on appeal but retains original jurisdiction over a limited range of cases. Some jurisdictions maintain a system of intermediate appellate courts, which are subject to the review of higher appellate courts. The highest appellate court in a jurisdiction is sometimes referred to as a \"court of last resort\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3198808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3198808", "title": "Biblioteca Nacional de España", "text": "Biblioteca Nacional de España\n\nThe Biblioteca Nacional de España (\"National Library of Spain\") is a major public library, the largest in Spain, and one of the largest in the world. It is located in Madrid, on the Paseo de Recoletos.\n\nThe library was founded by King Philip V in 1712 as the Palace Public Library (Biblioteca Pública de Palacio). The Royal Letters Patent that he granted, the predecessor of the current legal deposit requirement, made it mandatory for printers to submit a copy of every book printed in Spain to the library. In 1836, the library's status as Crown property was revoked and ownership was transferred to the Ministry of Governance (Ministerio de la Gobernación). At the same time, it was renamed the Biblioteca Nacional.\n\nDuring the 19th century, confiscations, purchases and donations enabled the Biblioteca Nacional to acquire the majority of the antique and valuable books that it currently holds. In 1892 the building was used to host the Historical American Exposition. On March 16, 1896, the Biblioteca Nacional opened to the public in the same building in which it is currently housed and included a vast Reading Room on the main floor designed to hold 320 readers. In 1931 the Reading Room was reorganised, providing it with a major collection of reference works, and the General Reading Room was created to cater for students, workers and general readers.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War close to 500,000 volumes were collected by the Confiscation Committee (Junta de Incautación) and stored in the Biblioteca Nacional to safeguard works of art and books held until then in religious establishments, palaces and private houses. During the 20th century numerous modifications were made to the building to adapt its rooms and repositories to its constantly expanding collections, to the growing volume of material received following the modification to the Legal Deposit requirement in 1958, and to the numerous works purchased by the library. Among this building work, some of the most noteworthy changes were the alterations made in 1955 to triple the capacity of the library's repositories, and those started in 1986 and completed in 2000, which led to the creation of the new building in Alcalá de Henares and complete remodelling of the building on Paseo de Recoletos, Madrid.\n\nIn 1986, when Spain's main bibliographic institutions - the National Newspaper Library (Hemeroteca Nacional), the Spanish Bibliographic Institute (Instituto Bibliográfico Hispánico) and the Centre for Documentary and Bibliographic Treasures (Centro del Tesoro Documental y Bibliográfico) - were incorporated into the Biblioteca Nacional, the library was established as the State Repository of Spain's Cultural Memory (Centro Estatal Depositario de la Memoria Cultural Española), making all of Spain's bibliographic output on any media available to the Spanish Library System and national and international researchers and cultural and educational institutions. In 1990 it was made an Autonomous Entity attached to the Ministry of Culture (Ministerio de Cultura).\n\nThe Madrid premises are shared with the National Archaeological Museum.\n\nThe Biblioteca Nacional is Spain's highest library institution and is head of the Spanish Library System.\n\nAs the country's national library, it is the centre responsible for identifying, preserving, conserving, and disseminating information about Spain's documentary heritage, and it aspires to be an essential point of reference for research into Spanish culture. In accordance with its Articles of Association, passed by Royal Decree 1581/1991 (R.D. 1581/1991) of October 31, 1991, its principal functions are to:\n\n\nThe library's collection consists of more than 26,000,000 items, including 15,000,000 books and other printed materials, 4,500,000 graphic materials, 600,000 sound recordings, 510,000 music scores, more than 500,000 microforms, 500,000 maps, 143,000 newspapers and serials, 90,000 audiovisuals, 90,000 electronic documents, and 30,000 manuscripts.\n\nThe current director of the Biblioteca Nacional is Ana Santos Aramburo, appointed in 2013. Former directors include her predecessors Glòria Pérez-Salmerón (2010–2013) and Milagros del Corral (2007-2010) as well as historian Juan Pablo Fusi (1996–2000) and author Rosa Regàs (2004–2007).\n\nGiven its role as the legal deposit for the whole of Spain, since 1991 it has kept most of the overflowing collection at a secondary site in Alcalá de Henares, near Madrid.\n\nThe Biblioteca Nacional provides access to its collections through the following library services:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14501159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14501159", "title": "Binding corporate rules", "text": "Binding corporate rules\n\nBinding Corporate Rules or \"BCRs\" were developed by the European Union Article 29 Working Party to allow multinational corporations, international organizations, and groups of companies to make intra-organizational transfers of personal data across borders in compliance with EU Data Protection Law. The BCRs were developed as an alternative to the U.S. Department of Commerce EU Safe Harbor (which was for US organizations only, but has been declared invalid and replaced by the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S Privacy Shield Frameworks) and the EU Model Contract Clauses.\n\nBCRs are required to be approved by the data protection authority in each EU Member State (such as the Information Commissioner's Office in the United Kingdom, CNIL in France, AEPD in Spain, etc.) in which the organization will rely on the BCRs. The EU has developed a mutual recognition process under which BCRs approved by one member state's data protection authority (known as the \"lead\" authority) and two other \"co-lead\" authorities, may be approved by the other relevant member states who may make comments and ask for amendments. Other members states, not part of mutual recognition process, will be also involved by the lead authority and will apply their own independent review process within a limited time-frame. The overall process for BCR acceptance takes usually between 6 and 9 months. This time frame does not include the required Data Protection setup, which should be already implemented within the company in order to comply with the current directive and its local implementation.\n\nBCRs typically form stringent, intra-corporate global privacy policies, set of practices, processes and guidelines that satisfy EU standards and may be available as an alternative means of authorizing transfers of personal data (e.g., customer databases, HR information, etc.) outside of Europe.\n\nBCRs should be seen as a framework for having different elements (internal legal agreement, policies, training, audit, etc.) providing compliance with EU data protection regulations and effective privacy and data protection.\n\nIt has to be noticed that, while originally designed for providing legal ground to international transfers, BCRs became de facto a corporation demonstration of its capacity to comply \"at large\" with personal data processing requirements. A corporation having BCRs applies this framework independently of international transfers and should be seen as part of the \"Corporate Governance\" or \"Data Governance\"\n\nThe Article 29 Working Party issued several guidance documents on BCR content, acceptance criteria and submission process.\n\nBCRs by themselves do not \"authorize\" all transfers automatically for all EU member states. Most of member states still require a formal \"transfer notification\" which is normally granted if the BCRs have been accepted by the relevant country.\n\nThe following companies have obtained authorizations for BCRs:\n\n\nIn addition, the Article 29 Working Party has introduced guidance for BCRs for processors (also known as Processor BCR, as opposed to the traditional Controller BCR).\n"}
{"id": "29292343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29292343", "title": "Bloomberg Law", "text": "Bloomberg Law\n\nBloomberg Law is a subscription-based service for online legal research. The service, which Bloomberg L.P. introduced in 2009, provides legal content, proprietary company information and news information to attorneys, law students, and other legal professionals. More specifically, this commercial legal and business technology platform integrates Bloomberg L.P. news with Bloomberg BNA's primary and secondary legal content and business development tools.\n\nBloomberg Law's web-based platform was first released under a pilot program in late 2009. According to the \"Financial Times\", \"the unit forms part of the data provider's drive to diversify beyond the banks and investment groups that make up the core customers for its eponymous terminals.\" In 2010, the service was formally launched.\n\nPrior to the creation of Bloomberg Law, two services, LexisNexis and Westlaw, comprised the majority of the legal research market. Bloomberg L.P. sought to separate itself from the competition by offering an integration of the Bloomberg company and financial data with legal research. Bloomberg Law combines content from Bloomberg’s global news network, legal analysis, court dockets, legal filings and reports from Bloomberg legal analysts as well as business news and information. Attorneys can also draw upon stock charts, search patent histories and find information about relevant judges and attorneys. The service is priced to include all features under a fixed monthly fee.\n\nIn 2011, Bloomberg L.P. purchased Bureau of National Affairs (BNA), and it integrated legal materials from BNA into Bloomberg Law.\n\nAccording to Bloomberg BNA, the platform was developed to help law firms grow their top line revenue, provide counsel by getting answers quickly and efficiently, and maintain and increase their profitability.\nFeatures include Litigation and Dockets, Legal and Financial Analytics, Business Development Center, Practice Tools and News and Law Reports.\n\nIn October 2010, Lou Andreozzi, a former chief executive officer of LexisNexis North American Legal Markets, joined Bloomberg Law as chairman and Larry Thompson, a former global marketing officer of LexisNexis, joined as chief operating officer. In September 2011, Bloomberg acquired legal publisher Bureau of National Affairs (BNA) to bolster its proprietary data and content. Shortly before its acquisition of BNA, Bloomberg Law announced it would become the exclusive sponsor of \"SCOTUSblog\", a site providing public access to U.S.Supreme Court coverage.\n\nIn September 2012, Greg McCaffery was named chief executive officer of Bloomberg Law. McCaffery had previously served as chief executive officer and president of Bloomberg BNA. In January 2014, Bloomberg BNA, a Bloomberg L.P. subsidiary, took over day-to-day operations of \"Bloomberg Law\". In 2018 Josh Eastright assumed the role of CEO of Bloomberg BNA.\n\nBetween 2014 and 2015, Bloomberg Law expanded and debuted features including dockets covering state, federal, and select international court cases, financial and legal analytics, and practice-specific products for corporate transactions, privacy and data security, and banking.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31293561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31293561", "title": "Cambodian constitutional referendum, 1972", "text": "Cambodian constitutional referendum, 1972\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Cambodia on 30 April 1972. The changes were approved by 97.5% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "35964975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35964975", "title": "Chief Defense Counsel (United States)", "text": "Chief Defense Counsel (United States)\n\nThe Chief Defense Counsel is a United States Department of Defense military position created by the Military Commissions Act of 2006 to supervise military and civilian defense attorneys for Guantanamo Bay detention camp prisoners in the Guantanamo military commission. The Office of the Chief Defense Counsel is a component of the Office of Military Commissions.\n\nColonel Dwight H. Sullivan, United States Marine Corps Reserve, was Chief Defense Counsel from 2005 to 2007. The current Chief Defense Counsel is Brigadier General John Baker, USMC.\n\nIn April 2013, Colonel Karen Mayberry, USAF, the Chief Defense Counsel at the time, ordered all attorneys under her supervision to stop using the military computer system because emails and files were made available to the prosecution. On September 18, 2013, Colonel Mayberry testified about the breaches of defense computer systems in the Guantanamo military commission.\n\nFollowing revelations in April 2014 that the Federal Bureau of Investigation was investigating defense teams, Military Judge James Pohl ordered the Chief Defense Counsel to appoint independent counsel for Khalid Sheikh Mohammad and Ramzi bin al-Shibh to investigate a possible conflict of interest. Later, Military Judge Pohl rescinded the order for independent counsel for Mohammad and severed bin al Shibh from the 9/11 military commission trial, citing questions of bin al Shibh's competency to stand trial and the possible conflict of interest.\n"}
{"id": "75034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75034", "title": "Clean room design", "text": "Clean room design\n\nClean-room design (also known as the Chinese wall technique) is the method of copying a design by reverse engineering and then recreating it without infringing any of the copyrights associated with the original design. Clean-room design is useful as a defense against copyright infringement because it relies on independent invention. However, because independent invention is not a defense against patents, clean-room designs typically cannot be used to circumvent patent restrictions.\n\nThe term implies that the design team works in an environment that is \"clean\" or demonstrably uncontaminated by any knowledge of the proprietary techniques used by the competitor.\n\nTypically, a clean-room design is done by having someone examine the system to be reimplemented and having this person write a specification. This specification is then reviewed by a lawyer to ensure that no copyrighted material is included. The specification is then implemented by a team with no connection to the original examiners.\n\nPhoenix Technologies sold its clean-room implementation of the IBM-compatible BIOS to various PC clone manufacturers. \n\nSeveral other PC clone companies, including Corona Data Systems, Eagle Computer, and Handwell Corporation, were successfully sued by IBM for copyright infringement in 1984, and were forced to re-implement their BIOS in a way which did not infringe IBM's copyrights. \n\nThese 3 settlements happened before Phoenix announced in July of that year, that they were licensing their own BIOS code, expressly emphasizing the clean-room process through which Phoenix's BIOS code had been written by a programmer who did not even have prior exposure to Intel microprocessors, himself having been a TMS9900 programmer beforehand. As late as the early 1990s, IBM was winning millions of dollars from settling BIOS copyright infringement lawsuits against some other PC clone manufacturers like Matsushita/Panasonic (1987) and Kyocera (1993–1994), although the latter suit was for infringements between 1985 and 1990.\n\nAnother clean-room design example is VTech's successful clones of the Apple II ROMs for the Laser 128, the only computer model among dozens of Apple II compatibles which survived litigation brought by Apple Computer.\n\nOther examples include ReactOS that is an open source operating system made from clean-room reverse-engineered components of Windows, and Coherent operating system that is a clean room re-implementation of version 7 Unix. In the early years of its existence, Coherent's developer Mark Williams Company received a visit from an AT&T delegation looking to determine whether MWC was infringing on AT&T Unix property. It has been released as open source.\n\nClean room design is usually employed as best practice, but not strictly required by law. In \"NEC Corp. v Intel Corp.\" (1990), NEC sought declaratory judgment against Intel's charges that NEC's engineers simply copied the microcode of the 8086 processor in their NEC V20 clone. A US judge ruled that while the early, internal revisions of NEC's microcode were indeed a copyright violation, the later one, which actually went into NEC's product, although derived from the former, were sufficiently different from the Intel microcode it could be considered free of copyright violations. While NEC themselves did not follow a strict clean room approach in the development of their clone's microcode, during the trial, they hired an independent contractor who was only given access to specifications but ended up writing code that had certain similarities to both NEC's and Intel's code. From this evidence, the judge concluded that similarity in certain routines was a matter of functional constraints resulting from the compatibility requirements, and thus were likely free of a creative element. Although the clean room approach had been used as preventative measure in view of possible litigation before (e.g. in the Phoenix BIOS case), the NEC v. Intel case was the first time that the clean room argument was accepted in a US court trial. A related aspect worth mentioning here is that NEC did have a license for Intel's patents governing the 8086 processor.\n\n\"Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. v. Connectix Corporation\" was a 1999 lawsuit which established an important precedent in regard to reverse engineering. Sony sought damages for copyright infringement over Connectix's Virtual Game Station emulator, alleging that its proprietary BIOS code had been copied into Connectix's product without permission. Sony won the initial judgment, but the ruling was overturned on appeal. Sony eventually purchased the rights to Virtual Game Station to prevent its further sale and development. This established a precedent addressing the legal implications of commercial reverse engineering efforts.\n\nDuring production, Connectix unsuccessfully attempted a Chinese wall approach to reverse engineer the BIOS, so its engineers disassembled the object code directly. Connectix's successful appeal maintained that the direct disassembly and observation of proprietary code was necessary because there was no other way to determine its behavior. From the ruling:\n\nSome works are closer to the core of intended copyright protection than others. Sony's BIOS lay at a distance from the core because it contains unprotected aspects that cannot be examined without copying. The court of appeal therefore accorded it a lower degree of protection than more traditional literary works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1546929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1546929", "title": "Commonhold", "text": "Commonhold\n\nCommonhold is a system of property ownership in England and Wales. It involves the indefinite freehold tenure of part of a multi-occupancy building (typically a flat) with shared ownership of and responsibility for common areas and services. It has features of the strata title and the condominium systems, which exist in Australia and the United States respectively. It was introduced by the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 as an alternative to leasehold, and was the first new type of legal estate to be introduced in English law since 1925.\n\nAn important difference between commonholds on the one hand and leaseholds (leases) on the other is that commonholds do not depreciate in value towards the end of their Term (\"term\", \"term of years\" or in extraneous documents sometimes \"existence\").\n\nIn the years since the 2002 Act became law, only a handful of commonholds have been registered, whilst hundreds of thousands of long leases have been granted during the same period. As of 3 June 2009, there were 12 commonhold residential developments comprising 97 units (homes) in England and one commonhold residential development comprising 30 units (homes) in Wales.\n\nWhere freehold houses should be subjected to positive covenants which force their owners contribute to communal maintenance, such as in garden squares, as few such duties can attach to freeholds, access to such areas can be physically restricted to those who own that area, commonly through a residents' Management Company. Such a company if the land was owned by the original landlord such as a developer may come into the hands of the lessees (tenants) through a statutory process of the Right to Manage leading to legal agreements or a court order which creates a limited liability Right to Manage (also known as an RTM) Company. A common alternative has been rentcharges where truly necessary services or contributions need to be made which cannot devolve to a local authority or statutory undertaker through \"adoption\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1031879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1031879", "title": "Congress of Europe", "text": "Congress of Europe\n\nThe Hague Congress or the Congress of Europe, considered by many as the first federal moment of the European history, was held in The Hague from 7–11 May 1948 with 750 delegates participating from around Europe as well as observers from Canada and the United States of America.\n\nThe Congress brought together representatives from across a broad political spectrum, providing them with the opportunity to discuss ideas about the development of European political co-operation. Important political figures such as Konrad Adenauer, Winston Churchill, Harold Macmillan, Sir David Maxwell-Fyfe, Pierre-Henri Teitgen, François Mitterrand (both ministers in Robert Schuman's government), three former French prime ministers, Paul Reynaud, Édouard Daladier, Paul Ramadier, Paul van Zeeland, Albert Coppé and Altiero Spinelli took part.\n\nA broad range of philosophers, journalists, church leaders, lawyers, professors, entrepreneurs and historians also took an active role in the congress. A call was launched for a political, economic and monetary Union of Europe. This landmark conference was to have a profound influence on the shape of the European Movement, which was created soon afterwards.\n\nThe Spanish statesman Salvador de Madariaga proposed the establishment of a College of Europe at the Congress. This would be a college where university graduates from many different countries, some only a short while before at war with each other, could study and live together.\n\nThe Congress also discussed the future structure and role of the Council of Europe. Teitgen and Maxwell-Fyfe were instrumental in creating the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms at the Council of Europe.\n\nThe Congress provided the means to heighten public opinion for European unity. On 20 July 1948, at the Hague meeting of ministers of Western European Union, Schuman's Foreign Minister Georges Bidault proposed the creation of a European Assembly (realized in the later Council of Europe) and a customs and economic union (the later European Coal and Steel Community and the two communities of the Treaties of Rome). Thus the conclusions of the Congress became French government policy and then the subject of European governmental policy.\n\nMarcel Pilet-Golaz, Winston Churchill, Grégoire Gafenco, Édouard Daladier, Albert-Édouard Janssen, Antony Eden, Juraj Krnjevic, Knut Kristensen, Indalecio Prieto, Hjalmar J. Procopé, Paul Ramadier, Paul Reynaud, Tadeusz Romer, Paul van Zeeland, Jacques Augarde, Gustav Heinemann, Johannes Hoffmann, François Mitterrand, Konrad Adenauer, Léon Chevalme, Alphonse Colle, Maurice Schumann, Auguste Cool, Henri Lambotte, Henri Davezac, Ivo Duchacek, Carl Romme, Gaston Tessier, Zivko Topalovic, Édouard Bonnefous, Georges Chevrot and, Paolo Giobbe; André François-Poncet, Marquess André d’Ormesson, Nicolò Carandini, Étienne Gilson, Charles Morgan, Bertrand Russell, Salvador de Madariaga; Raymond Rifflet, William Rappard, Walter Hallstein, René Capitant, Léon Julliot, Lord Moran, Michel Polonowski, Émile Borel, Gilbert Murray, Peter Fleming, Henry de Ségogne, Jacques Rueff, Maurice Allais, Jan Tinbergen, Harold Butler, Louis Salleron, Jacques Lacour-Gayet, Pierre Hély d’Oissel, Pieter Otten, Adrian Boult, Paul Landowski, Raymond Aron, René Courtin, Walter Layton, Pilsudski, Raymond Silva, Gilberte Brossolette, Frances L. Josephy, Germaine Peyroles, Claire Saunier, Edmond Michelet, Jean de Suzannet, Hugh Delargy, Jean Mathé, Jean Buchmann, Henri Koch, Altiero Spinelli, André Voisin, Robert Bichet, Alexandre Marc, François de Menthon, Luc Durand-Réville, Robert Lemaignen, Edmond Giscard d’Estaing, Henri Cangardel, Georges Le Brun Kéris.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6967691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6967691", "title": "Constitutional Court of Thailand", "text": "Constitutional Court of Thailand\n\nThe Constitutional Court (, , ) is an independent Thai court founded under the 1997 Constitution with jurisdiction over the constitutionality of parliamentary acts, royal decrees, draft legislation, as well as the appointment and removal of public officials and issues regarding political parties. The current court was established by the 2007 Constitution and is part of the judicial branch of the Thai national government.\n\nThe court, along with the 1997 Constitution, was dissolved and replaced by a Constitutional Tribunal in 2006 following the coup d'État. While the Constitutional Court had 15 members, 7 from the judiciary and 8 selected by a special panel, the Constitution Tribunal had 9 members, all from the judiciary. A similar institution, consisting of 9 members, was again established by the 2007 Constitution.\n\nThe Constitutional Court has provoked much public debate, both regarding the court's jurisdiction and composition as well as the initial selection of justices. A long-standing issue has been the degree of control exerted by the judiciary over the court.\n\nThe decisions of the court are final and inappealable. The decisions also bind every state organ, including the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers and other courts.\n\nThe various versions of the court have made several significant decisions. These included the 1999 decision that deputy minister of agriculture Newin Chidchop could retain his cabinet seat after being sentenced to imprisonment for defamation, the 2001 acquittal of Thaksin Shinawatra for filing an incomplete statement regarding his wealth, with the National Anti-Corruption Commission, the 2003 invalidation of Jaruvan Maintaka appointment as auditor-general, the 2007 dissolution of the Thai Rak Thai political party, and the 2014 removal of prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra from office.\n\nThe creation of the Constitutional Court was the subject of much debate during the 1996-1997 drafting of the current Constitution of Thailand. Senior judges rigorously opposed the concept on the grounds that constitutional and judicial review should remain the prerogative of the Supreme Court and that a constitutional court would create a fourth branch of government more powerful than the judiciary, legislature, or executive. Judges stated their fear over political interference in the selection and impeachment of judges. The Constitution Drafting Assembly eventually made several concessions regarding the composition and powers of the Court.\n\nThe Constitution did not give the Constitutional Court the authority to overrule a final judgment of the Supreme Court. An affected party, or a court, could request the opinion from the Constitutional Court if they believed a case involved a constitutional issue. The court where the initial action was pending would stay its proceedings until the Constitutional Court issued its decision. Constitutional Court decisions would have no retroactive effect on previous decisions of the regular courts.\n\nThe Constitution also did not give the Constitutional Court the authority to rule on any case in which the Constitution did not specifically delegate an agency the power to adjudicate.\n\nThe Constitution allowed individual justices to be the subject of impeachment proceedings with the vote of one fourth of the members of the House or with 50,000 approval of petitioners. A vote of three fifths of the Senate is required for impeachment. Earlier drafts had required votes of only 10% of the combined House and Senate to call for a vote of impeachment, and votes of three fifths of the combined Parliament to dismiss a justice.\n\nThe Constitution gave the judiciary a strong influence over the composition of the Constitutional Court. Originally, the Court was to have 9 justices comprising six legal experts and three political science experts. A panel of 17 persons would propose 18 names from which Parliament would elect the 9 justices. The panel president would be the president of the Supreme Court, the panel itself would have included 4 political party representatives. The CDA finally compromised and allowed 7 of the justices to be selected by the judiciary, while the remaining 8 justices would be selected by the Senate from a list of Supreme Court nominees.\n\nThe appointment of the first Constitutional Court following the promulgation of the constitution in 1997 was 4-month controversy pitting the Senate against the Supreme Court. A key issue was the Senate's authority to review the backgrounds of judicial nominees and reject nominees deemed inappropriate or unqualified.\n\nAfter receiving the Supreme Court's list of nominees, the Senate created a committee to review the nominees' credentials\nand backgrounds. On 24 November 1997, the Senate voted to remove the name of Supreme\nCourt vice-president Amphorn Thongprayoon, on the grounds that his credentials were dubious and on allegations that he had defaulted on 3 million THB in debt. The Supreme Court was furious, arguing the Constitution did not empower the Senate to do background checks or to reject Supreme Court nominees. The Supreme Court requested a ruling from the Constitutional Tribunal chaired by the House speaker. On 8 January 1998, in a 6:3 vote, the Tribunal ruled the Senate did \"not\" have the authority to do background checks or reject the Supreme Court's nominees. The Tribunal ruled that the Senate's review powers were limited to examining the records of the nominees and electing half of those nominees for appointment.\n\nImmediately after the Supreme Court had filed its request to the Tribunal, Justice Amphorn withdrew his name. After the Tribunal's ruling, the Supreme Court elected justice Jumpol na Songkhla on 9 January 1998 to replace Amphorn. The Senate ignored the Tribunal's ruling and proceeded to review Jumphol’s background and delayed a vote to accept his nomination for 7 days so that the Senate evaluate Jumphol. Finding no problems, the Senate proceeded to acknowledge his appointment to the Court on 23 January 1998.\n\nThe appointment of former Senate and Parliament president Ukrit Mongkolnavin was especially problematic. The Senate had initially elected Ukrit from the list of ten legal specialists nominated by the selection panel, despite claims from democracy activists that Ukrit was unqualified to guard the constitution because he had served dictators while president of Parliament under the 1991-1992 military government of the National Peacekeeping Council.\n\nStung by the Senate rejection of Amphorn Thongprayoon, the two Bangkok Civil Court judges, Sriampron Salikhup and Pajjapol Sanehasangkhom, petitioned the Constitutional Tribunal to disqualify Ukrit on a legal technicality. They argued that Ukrit only had an honorary professorship at Chulalongkorn University, while the 1997 Constitution specifically specifies that a nominee, if not meeting other criteria, must be at least a professor. Echoing the Senate's rejection of Amphorn, the judges also alleged that Ukrit was involved in a multi-million baht lawsuit over a golf course. On 10 January 1998 the Tribunal ruled that the judges were not affected parties and therefore they had no right to request a ruling. Nevertheless, the Parliament president invoked his power as chairman of the Tribunal to ask the Senate to reconsider Ukrit's nomination.\n\nOn 19 January 1998, the Senate reaffirmed Ukrit's qualifications, noting that his professorship was special only because he was not a government official. Under Chulalongkorn's regulations, he had the academic status of a full professor.\n\nThis position inflamed activists and the judiciary, and prompted the Parliament president on 21 January to invoke his authority under Article 266 of the 1997 Constitution to order the Constitutional Tribunal to consider the issue. On 8 February, in a 4:3 vote, the Tribunal ruled that Ukrit's special professorship did \"not\" qualify him for a seat in the Constitutional Court. The Tribunal noted that Chulalongkorn criteria for honorary professor were different from their criteria for academic professors, as intended by the Constitution. The Senate ended up electing Komain Patarapirom to replace Ukrit.\n\nUnder the 2007 Constitution, the Court is competent to address the following:\n\nThe Constitutional Court was modeled after the Constitutional Court of Italy. According to the 1997 Constitution, the Court had 15 members, all serving for 9-year terms and appointed by the King upon senatorial advice:\n\nAccording to the 2006 Constitution, the Constitutional Tribunal was established to replace the Constitutional Court which had been dissolved by the Council for Democratic Reform. The Tribunal had 9 members as follows:\n\nAfter the Constitutional Court was abolished by the Council for Democratic Reform and was replaced by the Constitutional Tribunal under the 2006 Constitution, the 2007 Constitution reestablishes the Constitutional Court and makes various changes to it. The Court is back with greater vigour and is also empowered to introduce to the National Assembly the draft laws concerning the Court itself.\nUnder the 2007 Constitution, the Constitutional Court has 9 members, all serving for 9-year terms and appointed by the King upon senatorial advice:\n\n\nIn its very first decision, the Court ruled on the constitutionality of four emergency executive decrees issued by the Chuan government to deal with the Asian financial crisis. The government had issued the decrees in early May 1998 to expand the role of the Financial Restructuring Authority and the Assets Management Corporation, to settle the debts of the Financial Institutions Development Fund through the issue of 500 billion THB in bonds, and to authorize the ministry of finance to seek 200 billion THB in overseas loans. The opposition New Aspiration Party (NAP) did not have the votes to defeat the bills, and therefore, on the last day of debate, invoked Article 219 of the Constitution to question the constitutionality of an emergency decree.\n\nThe NAP argued that since there was no emergency nor necessary urgency (under Article 218(2)), the government could not issue any emergency decrees. Article 219, however, specifically notes the constitutionality of an emergency decree can be questioned only on Article 218(1) concerning the maintenance of national or public safety, national economic security, or to avert public calamity. The government, fearing further economic damage if the decree were delayed, opposed the Court's acceptance of the complaint, as the opposition clearly had failed to cite the proper constitutional clause. The Court wished to set a precedent, however, demonstrating it would accept petitions under Article 219, even if technically inaccurate. Within a day it ruled that it was obvious to the general public that the nation was in an economic crisis, and that the decrees were designed to assist with national economic security in accordance with Article 218(1). The decrees were later quickly approved by Parliament.\n\nThe NAP's last minute motion damaged its credibility, and made it unlikely that Article 219 will be invoked unless there is a credible issue and the issue is raised and discussed at the beginning of parliamentary debate, rather than at the last-minute before a vote.\n\nOn the other hand, a precedent was established by the Court that it would accept all petitions under Article 219 to preserve Parliament's right to question the constitutionality of emergency executive decrees.\n\nThe NAP later filed impeachment proceedings with the National Anti-Corruption Commission (NACC) against prime minister Chuan Leekpai and the minister of finance Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda for violation of the Constitution. The NAP argued that the letter of intent that the government signed with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to secure emergency financial support was a treaty, and that Article 224 of the Constitution stipulated that the government must receive prior consent from Parliament to enter a treaty.\n\nThe NACC determined the issue concerned a constitutional interpretation and petitioned the Constitutional Court for an opinion. The Court ruled the IMF letters were not treaties, as internationally defined, because they were unilateral documents from the Thai government with no rules for enforcement or provisions for penalty. Moreover, the IMF itself had worded the letters in a way that stated that the letters were not contractual agreements.\n\nOn 24 June 2003, a petition was filed with the Constitutional Court seeking its decision on the constitutionality of Jaruvan Maintaka’s appointment by the Senate as auditor-general. Jaruvan was one of three nominees for the position of auditor-general in 2001, along with Prathan Dabpet and Nontaphon Nimsomboon. Prathan received 5 votes from the 8-person State Audit Commission (SAC) chairman while Jaruvan received 3 votes. According to the constitution, State Audit Commission chairman Panya Tantiyavarong should have submitted Prathan's nomination to the Senate, as he received the majority of votes. However, on 3 July 2001, the SAC chairman submitted a list of all three candidates for the post of auditor-general to the Senate, which later voted to select Khunying Jaruvan Maintaka.\n\nThe Constitutional Court ruled on 6 July 2004 that the selection process that led to the appointment of Jaruvan as auditor-general was unconstitutional. The Court noted that the Constitution empowers the SAC to nominate only one person with the highest number of votes from a simple majority, not three as had been the case. The court stopped short of saying if she had to leave her post. However, when the Constitutional Court had ruled on 4 July 2002 that the then Election Commission chairman Sirin Thoopklam’s election to the body was unconstitutional, the president of the Court noted \"when the court rules that the selection [process] was unconstitutional and has to be redone, the court requires the incumbent to leave the post\".\n\nHowever, Jaruwan refused to resign without a royal dismissal from king Bhumibol Adulyadej. She noted \"I came to take the position as commanded by a royal decision, so I will leave the post only when directed by such a decision.\" The State Audit Commission later nominated Wisut Montriwat, former deputy permanent secretary of the ministry of finance, for the post of auditor-general. The Senate approved the nomination on 10 May 2005. However, king Bhumibol Adulyadej, in an unprecedented move, withheld his royal assent. The National Assembly did not hold a vote to overthrow the royal veto. In October 2005 the Senate rejected a motion to reaffirm her appointment, and instead deferred the decision to the SAC.\n\nOn 15 February 2006 the State Audit Commission (SAC) decided to reinstate auditor-general Khunying Jaruvan Maintaka. Its unanimous decision came after it received a memo from the office of king Bhumibol Adulyadej’s principal private secretary, advising that the situation be resolved.\n\nThe controversy led many to reinterpret the political and judicial role of the king in Thailand's constitutional monarchy.\n\nIn February 2006, 28 Senators submitted a petition to the Constitutional Court calling for the prime minister's impeachment for conflicts of interest and improprieties in the sell-off of Shin Corporation under Articles 96, 216 and 209 of the Thai constitution. The Senators said the prime minister violated the Constitution and was no longer qualified for office under Article 209. However, the Court rejected the petition on 16 February, with the majority judges saying the petition failed to present sufficient grounds to support the prime minister's alleged misconduct.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45281174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45281174", "title": "Cut throat competition", "text": "Cut throat competition\n\nCut throat competition is a term that was widely used to describe the reason for consumer protection regulation, labour law, and enforcement of competition law or antitrust, in the late 19th and early 20th century.\n\nIn economics, cut throat competition is also referred to as ruinous, excessive or unfettered competition. More generally, cut throat competition is also subsumed under the term \"destructive competition\".\n\nMany countries have strict legislation against cut throat competition and anti-competitive practices in pricing.\n\nAccording to the Federal Trade Commission, the alleged necessity of a pricing agreement to avoid cut-throat competition is not considered a valid defense in the case of a proven price fixing agreement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1141965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1141965", "title": "Daubert standard", "text": "Daubert standard\n\nIn United States federal law, the Daubert\" standard is a rule of evidence regarding the admissibility of expert witnesses' testimony. A party may raise a Daubert\" motion, a special motion \"in limine\" raised before or during trial, to exclude the presentation of unqualified evidence to the jury. The \"Daubert\" trilogy are the three United States Supreme Court cases that articulated the Daubert standard:\n\n\nImportant appellate-level opinions that clarify the standard include Judge Kozinski's opinion in Daubert on remand (\"Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc.\", 43 F.3d 1311 (9th Cir. 1995)), and Judge Becker's opinion in \"In re Paoli R.R. Yard PCB Litig.\", 35 F.3d 717 (3d Cir. 1994).\n\nIn \"Daubert\", seven members of the Court agreed on the following guidelines for admitting scientific expert testimony:\n\nIn 2000, Rule 702 was amended in an attempt to codify and structure elements embodied in the \"\"Daubert\" trilogy.\" The rule then read as follows: \n\nIn 2011, Rule 702 was again amended to make the language clearer. The rule now reads:\n\nWhile some federal courts still rely on pre-2000 opinions in determining the scope of \"Daubert\", as a technical legal matter any earlier judicial rulings that conflict with the language of amended Rule 702 are no longer good precedent.\n\nAlthough the Daubert standard is now the law in federal court and over half of the states, the \"Frye\" standard remains the law in some jurisdictions including California, Illinois, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Washington.\n\nFlorida passed a bill to adopt the Daubert standard as the law governing expert witness testimony, which took effect on July 1, 2013. However, the Florida Supreme Court rejected the Legislature's \"Daubert Amendment\" to the extent it is procedural in nature.\n\nAlthough trial judges have always had the authority to exclude inappropriate testimony, prior to \"Daubert\", trial courts often preferred to let juries hear evidence proffered by both sides. Once certain evidence has been excluded by a \"Daubert\" motion because it fails to meet the relevancy and reliability standard, it will likely be challenged when introduced again in another trial. Even though a \"Daubert\" motion is not binding to other courts of law, if something was found untrustworthy by one court, other judges may choose to follow that precedent. Of course, a decision by an appellate court that a piece of evidence is inadmissible under \"Daubert\" would be binding on district courts within that court's jurisdiction.\n\nTo attack expert testimony as inadmissible, counsel may bring pretrial motions, including motions in limine. The motion in limine may be brought prior to trial, although counsel may bring the motion during trial as well.\n\nA motion attacking expert testimony should be brought within a reasonable time after the close of discovery if the grounds for the objection can be reasonably anticipated. The hearing should be made well in advance of the first time a case appears on a trial calendar.\n\nIn one case where a Daubert hearing was conducted on the day of the trial, in which the district court excluded all plaintiff's expert testimony, resulting in the dismissal of all claims, the appellate court remanded the case because of multiple irregularities and a defective record of lower court proceedings.\n\nThe appellate court noted that in cases that rely heavily on expert testimony, a district court should set a discovery and trial schedule that realistically provides both sides with an adequate opportunity to introduce necessary evidence. The application of Federal Rule of Evidence 702 to proposed expert testimony can often be an uncertain process, and is best conducted in such a manner that litigants have a reasonable opportunity to locate experts who meet the rule's requirements.\n\nIn another case in which the defendant was apparently at fault for filing a motion to exclude expert testimony one week before the trial date, the district court denied the motion on that ground, but it advised the defendant that it might conduct its own \"voir dire\" of the expert in question before he testified. The district court preliminarily found that defendant's motion was predicated on a ruling made almost three months earlier by a district court in another state, and that defendant had shown no good cause for waiting to file the motion. The defendant ultimately lost that case, following the admission of the disputed expert testimony, and ultimately failed in its appeal.\n\nAn evidentiary hearing on the motion may not be necessary if the court finds that it would not assist the court in ruling on any of the matters in the motion.\n\nPrior to \"Daubert\", relevancy in combination with the \"Frye\" test were the dominant standards for determining the admissibility of scientific evidence in Federal courts. \"Frye\" is based on a 1923 Federal Court of appeals ruling involving the admissibility of polygraph evidence. Under \"Frye\", the Court based the admissibility of testimony regarding novel scientific evidence on whether it has \"gained general acceptance in the particular field in which it belongs.\" The trial court's gatekeeper role in this respect is typically described as conservative, thus helping to keep pseudoscience out of the courtroom by deferring to those in the field.\n\nIn \"Daubert\", the Supreme Court ruled that the 1923 Frye test was superseded by the 1975 Federal Rules of Evidence, specifically Rule 702 governing expert testimony. Rule 702 originally stated (in its entirety),\nIf scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge will assist the trier of fact to understand the evidence or determine a fact in issue, a witness qualified as an expert by knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education, may testify thereto in the form of an opinion or otherwise.\n\nIn \"Daubert\", the Court ruled that nothing in the Federal Rules of Evidence governing expert evidence \"gives any indication that 'general acceptance' is a necessary precondition to the admissibility of scientific evidence. Moreover, such a rigid standard would be at odds with the Rules' liberal thrust and their general approach of relaxing the traditional barriers to 'opinion' testimony.\"\n\nBy requiring experts to provide relevant opinions grounded in reliable methodology, proponents of \"Daubert\" were satisfied that these standards would result in a fair and rational resolution of the scientific and technological issues which lie at the heart of product liability adjudication.\n\nDaubert has not appeared to further the Federal Rules philosophy of admitting generally all relevant testimony, and specifically of relaxing the traditional barriers to 'opinion' testimony.\" The \"Daubert\" decision has instead been heralded by some political commentators as one of the most important Supreme Court decisions in imposing higher barriers for toxic tort and product liability cases, by allegedly reducing the volume of so-called junk science in the court room.\n\nAccording to a 2002 RAND study, post Daubert, the percentage of expert testimony by scientists that was excluded from the courtroom significantly rose. This rise likely contributed to a doubling in successful motions for summary judgment in which 90% were against plaintiffs. Beyond this study, there is little empirical evidence of the impact of \"Daubert\".\nHowever, some critics argue that \"Daubert\" has disrupted the balance between plaintiffs and defendants, “The exclusion of expert testimony affects plaintiffs far more than defendants because plaintiffs may then not be able to meet their required burden of proof. Furthermore, there is little point in plaintiffs going to the expense of Daubert motions to exclude defendant’s experts until they know if their case will proceed. So if more experts are now being excluded, then \"Daubert\" has undoubtedly shifted the balance between plaintiffs and defendants and made it more difficult for plaintiffs to litigate successfully.” Similarly, \"Daubert\" hearings can be subject to various abuses by attorneys attempting to bolster a weak case. These tactics can range from simply attempting to delay the case to driving up the costs of the litigation forcing settlement.\n\nA different pattern has emerged in criminal cases. In criminal cases, the prosecution has the burden of proof and uses a host of forensic science methods as evidence to prove their case. But, \"Daubert\" motions are rarely made by criminal defendants and when they do, they lose a majority of the challenges. Some critics of the use of unreliable science in court argue that \"Daubert\" has had beneficial effects in civil litigation, but fails to address the underlying pathologies of the forensic science system that leads to dubious verdicts in criminal cases.\n\nSome commentators believe that \"Daubert\" caused judges to become—in the phrase used in former Chief Justice William Rehnquist’s dissent in \"Daubert\"—amateur scientists, many lacking the scientific literacy to effectively fulfill their role as gatekeeper of scientific evidence. Although \"science for judges\" forums have emerged in the wake of \"Daubert\" in order to educate judges in a variety of scientific fields, many are still skeptical about the usefulness of the \"Daubert\" standard in discerning valid science. The responsibility to assess scientific relevance has shifted from highly trained expert witnesses to judges deficient in science education. The \"Daubert\" ruling furthermore admits the possible introduction of non-peer reviewed data and conclusions. This increasingly shifts the burden of scientific judgement onto judges who have not had an education which would enable them to properly evaluate such data.\n\nPursuant to Rule 104(a), in \"Daubert\" the U.S. Supreme Court suggested that the following factors be considered:\n\nThe Supreme Court explicitly cautioned that the Daubert list should not be regarded by judges as \"a definitive checklist or test...\" Yet in practice, judges have judged the admissibility of scientific evidence using the \"Daubert factors\" as a checklist; for example, the trial court judge in \"Kumho\" admitted to erroneously treating the factors as mandatory.\n\nThe Canadian Supreme Court has expressly adopted the Daubert standard in two cases. R. v. Mohan,; R. v. J.L.-J., [2000]. In J.L.-J., the Court took a look at the development of U.S. law in this regard, noted the U.S. Supreme Court's rejection of the Frye standard and its replacement with the Daubert Standard. While the Court did note that: \" Daubert must be read in light of the specific text of the Federal Rules of Evidence, which differs from our own procedures,\" the Court also stated in the same sentence that \"the U.S. Supreme Court did list a number of factors that could be helpful in evaluating the soundness of novel science.\" The Court then applied the Daubert standard to a decision of the Quebec Court of Appeal. The Quebec Court had held that greater liberality should be applied by the Court in receiving pro-defense scientific evidence in a criminal case. The Court rejected this decision and reinstated the defendant's conviction.\n\nAdditionally, in 2005, the United Kingdom House of Commons Science and Technology Committee recommended the creation of a Forensic Science Advisory Council to regulate forensic evidence in the UK and observed that: The absence of an agreed protocol for the validation of scientific techniques prior to their being admitted in court is entirely unsatisfactory. Judges are not well-placed to determine scientific validity without input from scientists. We recommend that one of the first tasks of the Forensic Science Advisory Council be to develop a \"gate-keeping\" test for expert evidence. This should be done in partnership with judges, scientists and other key players in the criminal justice system, and should build on the US \"Daubert\" test.\n\nThe Law Commission for England and Wales has proposed a consultation paper (No.190) to adopt a criterion like the Daubert Standard to help reform the law of evidence in regards to the admissibility of scientific evidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "82921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82921", "title": "Disk image", "text": "Disk image\n\nA disk image, in computing, is a computer file containing the contents and structure of a disk volume or of an entire data storage device, such as a hard disk drive, tape drive, floppy disk, optical disc or USB flash drive. A disk image is usually made by creating a sector-by-sector copy of the source medium, thereby perfectly replicating the structure and contents of a storage device independent of the file system. Depending on the disk image format, a disk image may span one or more computer files.\n\nThe file format may be an open standard, such as the ISO image format for optical disc images, or a disk image may be unique to a particular software application.\n\nThe size can be huge because it contains the contents of an entire disk. To reduce storage requirements, if an imaging utility is filesystem-aware it can omit copying unused space, and it can compress the used space.\n\nDisk images were originally (in the late 1960s) used for backup and disk cloning of mainframe disk media, the early ones were as small as 5 megabytes and as large as 330 megabytes, and the copy medium was magnetic tape, which ran as large as 200 megabytes per reel. Disk images became much more popular when floppy disk media became popular, where replication or storage of an exact structure was necessary and efficient, especially in the case of copy protected floppy disks.\n\nDisk images are used heavily for duplication of optical media including DVDs, Blu-ray disks, etc. It is also used to make perfect clones of hard disks.\n\nA virtual disk may emulate any type of physical drive, such as a hard disk drive, tape drive, key drive, floppy drive, CD/DVD/BD/HD DVD or a network share among others; and of course, since it is not physical, requires a virtual reader device matched to it (see below). An emulated drive is typically created either in RAM for fast read/write access (known as a RAM disk), or on a hard drive. Typical uses of virtual drives include the mounting of disk images of CDs and DVDs, and the mounting of virtual hard disks for the purpose of on the fly disk encryption (\"OTFE\").\n\nSome operating systems such as Linux and macOS have virtual drive functionality built-in (such as the loop device), while others such as older versions of Microsoft Windows require additional software. Starting from Windows 8, Windows includes native virtual drive functionality.\n\nVirtual drives are typically read-only, being used to mount existing disk images which are not modifiable by the drive. However some software provides virtual CD/DVD drives which can produce new disk images; this type of virtual drive goes by a variety of names, including \"virtual burner\".\n\nUsing disk images in a virtual drive allows users to shift data between technologies, for example from CD optical drive to hard disk drive. This may provide advantages such as speed and noise (hard disk drives are typically four or five times faster than optical drives, are quieter, suffer from less wear and tear, and in the case of solid-state drives, are immune to some physical trauma). In addition it may reduce power consumption, since it may allow just one device (a hard disk) to be used instead of two (hard disk plus optical drive).\n\nVirtual drives may also be used as part of emulation of an entire machine (a virtual machine).\n\nSince the spread of broadband, CD and DVD images have become a common medium for Linux distributions. Applications for macOS are often delivered online as an Apple Disk Image containing a file system that includes the application, documentation for the application, and so on. Online data and bootable recovery CD images are provided for customers of certain commercial software companies.\n\nDisk images may also be used to distribute software across a company network, or for portability (many CD/DVD images can be stored on a hard disk drive). There are several types of software that allow software to be distributed to large numbers of networked machines with little\nor no disruption to the user. Some can even be scheduled to update only at night so that machines are not disturbed during business hours. These technologies reduce end-user impact and greatly reduce the time and man-power needed to ensure a secure corporate environment. Efficiency is also increased because there is much less opportunity for human error. Disk images may also be needed to transfer software to machines without a compatible physical disk drive.\n\nFor computers running macOS, disk images are the most common file type used for software downloads, typically downloaded with a web browser. The images are typically compressed Apple Disk Image (.dmg suffix) files. They are usually opened by directly mounting them without using a real disk. The advantage compared with some other technologies, such as Zip and RAR archives, is they do not need redundant drive space for the unarchived data.\n\nSoftware packages for Windows are also sometimes distributed as disk images including ISO images. While Windows versions prior to Windows 7 do not natively support mounting disk images to the files system, several software options are available to do this; see comparison of disc image software.\n\nVirtual hard disks are often used in on the fly disk encryption (\"OTFE\") software such as FreeOTFE and TrueCrypt, where an encrypted \"image\" of a disk is stored on the computer. When the disk's password is entered, the disk image is \"mounted\", and made available as a new volume on the computer. Files written to this virtual drive are written to the encrypted image, and never stored in cleartext.\n\nThe process of making a computer disk available for use is called \"mounting\", the process of removing it is called \"dismounting\" or \"unmounting\"; the same terms are used for making an encrypted disk available or unavailable.\n\nA hard disk image is interpreted by a Virtual Machine Monitor as a system administrator using terms of naming, a hard disk image for a certain Virtual Machine monitor has a specific file \nHard drive imaging is used in several major application areas\napreviously mentioned, is typically used to replicate the contents of the hard drive for use in another system. This can typically be done by software programs as it only structure are files themselves.\n\nThere are two schemes predominant across all Virtual Machine Monitor implementations\nThere are two modes in which a disk can be mapped for a virtual machine\n\nSome backup programs only back up user files; boot information and files locked by the operating system, such as those in use at the time of the backup, may not be saved on some operating systems. A disk image contains all files, faithfully replicating all data. For this reason, it is also used for backing up CDs and DVDs.\n\nFiles that don't belong to installed programs can usually be backed up with file-based backup software, and this is preferred because file-based backup usually saves more time or space because they never copy unused space (as a \"bit-identical\" image does), they usually are capable of incremental backups, and generally have more flexibility. But for files of installed programs, file-based backup solutions may fail to reproduce all necessary characteristics, particularly with Windows systems. For example, in Windows certain registry keys use short filenames, which are sometimes not reproduced by file-based backup, some commercial software uses copy protection that will cause problems if a file is moved to a different disk sector, and file-based backups do not always reproduce metadata such as security attributes. Creating a bit-identical disk image is one way to ensure the system backup will be exactly as the original. Bit-identical images can be made in Linux with dd, available on nearly all live CDs.\n\nMost commercial imaging software is \"user-friendly\" and \"automatic\" but may not create bit-identical images. These programs have most of the same advantages, except that they may allow restoring to partitions of a different size or file-allocation size, and thus may \"not\" put files on the same exact sector. Additionally, if they do not support Windows Vista, they may slightly move or realign partitions and thus make Vista unbootable (see Windows Vista startup process).\n\nLarge enterprises often need to buy or replace new computer systems in large numbers. Installing operating system and programs into each of them one by one requires a lot of time and effort and has a significant possibility of human error. Therefore, system administrators use disk imaging to quickly clone the fully prepared software environment of a reference system. This method saves time and effort and allows administrators to focus on unique distinctions that each system must bear.\n\nThere are several types of disk imaging software available that use single instancing technology to reduce the time, bandwidth, and storage required to capture and archive disk images. This makes it possible to rebuild and transfer \ninformation-rich disk images at lightning speeds, which is a significant improvement over the days when programmers spent hours configuring each machine within an organization.\n\nEmulators frequently use disk images to simulate the floppy drive of the computer being emulated. This is usually simpler to program than accessing a real floppy drive (particularly if the disks are in a format not supported by the host operating system), and allows a large library of software to be managed.\n\nA \"mini image\" is an optical disc image file in a format that fakes the disk's content to bypass CD/DVD copy protection.\n\nBecause they are the full size of the original disk, Mini Images are stored instead. Mini Images are small, on the order of kilobytes, and contain just the information necessary to bypass CD-checks. Therefore; the Mini Image is a form of a No-CD crack, for unlicensed games, and legally backed up games. Mini images do not contain the real data from an image file, just the code that is needed to satisfy the CD-check. They cannot provide CD or DVD backed data to the computer program such as on-disk image or video files.\n\nCreating a disk image is achieved with a suitable program. Different disk imaging programs have varying capabilities, and may focus on hard drive imaging (including hard drive backup, restore and rollout), or optical media imaging (CD/DVD images).\n\nA \"virtual disk writer\" or \"virtual burner\" is a computer program that emulates an actual disc authoring device such as a CD writer or DVD writer. Instead of writing data to an actual disc, it creates a virtual disk image. A virtual burner, by definition, appears as a disc drive in the system with writing capabilities (as opposed to conventional disc authoring programs that can create virtual disk images), thus allowing software that can burn discs to create virtual discs.\n\nIn most cases, a file format is tied to a particular software package. The software defines and uses its own, often proprietary, image format, though some formats are widely supported by open standards. These formats are supported by nearly all optical disc software\n\nRawWrite and WinImage are examples of floppy disk image file writer/creator for MS-DOS and Microsoft Windows. They can be used to create raw image files from a floppy disk, and write such image files to a floppy.\n\nIn Unix or similar systems the dd program can be used to create disk images, or to write them to a particular disk. It is also possible to mount and access them at block level using a loop device.\n\nApple Disk Copy can be used on Classic Mac OS and macOS systems to create and write disk image files.\n\nAuthoring software for CDs/DVDs such as Nero Burning ROM can generate and load disk images for optical media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5804384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5804384", "title": "East Pakistan Provincial Assembly", "text": "East Pakistan Provincial Assembly\n\nThe East Pakistan Provincial Assembly, known as the East Bengal Legislative Assembly between 1947 and 1955, was the legislature of Bangladesh when the country was a province of Pakistan as East Bengal (1947-1955) and East Pakistan (1955-1971). The legislature was a successor to the British Raj-era parliament of Bengal, which was divided between East Bengal and West Bengal during the partition of Bengal in 1947. It was the largest provincial legislature in Pakistan.\n\nDuring the Bangladesh War of Independence in 1971, most Bengali members elected to the Pakistani National Assembly and the East Pakistani provincial assembly became members of the Constituent Assembly of Bangladesh.\n\nOn 20 June 1947, 141 East Bengali legislators from the Bengal Legislative Assembly voted on the partition of Bengal, with 107 supporting joining Pakistan's Constituent Assembly if India was partitioned. The Sylhet region in Assam voted in a referendum to join East Bengal. After the creation of the Dominion of Pakistan, those 141 legislators, in addition to legislators from Sylhet of the Assam Legislative Assembly, formed the East Bengal Legislative Assembly. The Muslim League's Sir Khawaja Nazimuddin became the first chief minister. He was succeeded by Nurul Amin in 1948. The assembly was housed in Jagannath Hall, within the vicinity of the University of Dacca and the High Court of Dacca. The area was the center of the Bengali Language Movement in 1952.\n\nThe assembly passed the East Bengal State Acquisition and Tenancy Act of 1950. The act repealed the earlier laws and regulations which formed the permanent settlement during British rule.\n\nThe United Front coalition, led by the Krishak Praja Party and the Awami League, routed the Muslim League during the provincial general election in 1954. The Farmer and Labour Party leader A. K. Fazlul Huq became chief minister for six weeks. The United Front called for complete autonomy in East Bengal, except in defence and foreign policy; and the recognition of Bengali as a federal language. The East Bengal Legislative Assembly passed a law for the establishment of the Bengali Academy. However, Huq's government was dismissed within two months. Huq was placed under house arrest. After a period of Governor General's rule, Abu Hussain Sarkar became chief minister in 1955.\n\nAs a result of the One Unit scheme, the assembly was renamed as the East Pakistan Provincial Assembly in 1955. Pakistan became a republic under the Constitution of Pakistan of 1956, in which Bengali was recognized as a federal language as a concession to East Pakistan.\n\nIn 1957, the East Pakistan Provincial Assembly adopted a unanimous resolution demanding full autonomy.\nAtaur Rahman Khan became chief minister in 1956.\n\nIn 1958, a brawl broke out between political factions in the assembly, resulting in the deputy speaker Shahed Ali Patwary being injured. Patwary later died. The confrontation was used as a pretext by President Iskander Mirza to declare martial law on 7 October 1958. The chief of army staff Ayub Khan was appointed Chief Martial Law Administrator. Khan later assumed the presidency by replacing Mirza. All provincial assemblies, including in East Pakistan, were disbanded. Numerous political leaders and journalists were arrested. The Elected Bodies Disqualification Order barred 75 politicians from holding public office for eight years (until 1966).\n\nThe Constitution of Pakistan of 1962 abolished the parliamentary system and introduced a presidential and gubernatorial system at the federal and provincial levels respectively. The most important feature of the system was dubbed \"Basic Democracy\", in which electoral colleges would be responsible for electing the President of Pakistan and Governors of East and West Pakistan.\n\nIn 1962, Dacca was declared Pakistan's legislative capital. During the 1960s, the East Pakistan Provincial Assembly was housed in Parliament House in Tejgaon. The National Assembly of Pakistan would periodically convene in the same building. The building is now the Prime Minister's Office of Bangladesh.\n\nIn 1966, the six points of the Awami League demanded a federal parliamentary democracy.\n\nIn 1969, President Ayub Khan was deposed by the army chief Yahya Khan. The 1969 uprising in East Pakistan played a role in the overthrow of President Ayub Khan. The new ruler Yahya Khan organized general elections in 1970 based on universal suffrage (the first in Pakistan's history), in which the Awami League won 288 of the 300 seats in East Pakistan's provincial assembly. The refusal of the Pakistani military junta to transfer power led to the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971.\n\nFollowing the Pakistani military crackdown in East Pakistan that began on 25 March 1971, most members of the East Pakistan Provincial Assembly and the Bengali members of the National Assembly of Pakistan convened in Mujibnagar on 17 April 1971, where they signed the Proclamation of Bangladeshi Independence.\n\nThe 1954 election in East Bengal was the first election since Pakistan was created. It was held on the basis of separate electorates, with reserved seats including 228 for the Muslim electorate, 30 for the general electorate, 36 for the scheduled caste electorate, 1 for the Pakistan Christian electorate, 12 for the womens' electorate and 1 for the Buddhist electorate.\nThe Awami League emerged as the single largest party. However, in response to popular demands, the United Front Legislative Party elected Krishak Sramik Party leader A K Fazlul Huq, a former Prime Minister of Bengal, as Leader of the House. Huq was invited by the governor on 3 April 1954 to form the government. The election ended the dominance of the Muslim League in the politics of East Bengal. It heralded a younger generation of legislators from the vernacular middle class. But verdict had little impact on Pakistan's central leadership and bureaucracy.\n\nThe 1970 general election broke with the tradition of separate electorates and was organized on the basis of universal adult franchise. The results are given in the following.\n\nThe newly elected assembly could not convene due to the Pakistani military crackdown in East Pakistan. During the Bangladesh War of Independence, the Proclamation of Bangladeshi Independence was signed by most of its members, which transformed the assembly into a part of the Constituent Assembly of Bangladesh, alongside Bengali members of the National Assembly of Pakistan.\n\nA total of five ministries (parliamentary governments) were formed by Chief Ministers in the assembly.\n\n"}
{"id": "41546652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41546652", "title": "Estrepement", "text": "Estrepement\n\nThe writ of estrepement ( ), or de estrepamento ( ), was a writ in common law countries that would be used to prevent estrepement, a type of voluntary waste. The waste that the writ would issue to prevent would be waste that occurred in response to a lawsuit seeking possession of the land, or a judgment against the waster where possession had not yet been delivered.\n\nIn his \"Commentaries\", Blackstone noted that this common law writ would lie originally to prevent waste that took place between judgment in a real action and delivery of possession by the sheriff. Following the Statute of Gloucester, a writ of estrepement \"pendente placito\" would lie to prevent estrepement pending the outcome of a case. Either writ empowered the sheriff to prevent such waste, allowing him to imprison the waster, and even to raise a \"posse comitatus\" to assist him. According to Finlason, the basic writ of estrepement was an original writ that had to be sued out of chancery, whereas the writ \"pendente placito\" was a writ issued from the bench.\n\nWhere the tenant is alleged to have disobeyed the writ, a \"venire facias\" would issue and the tenant would be attached. The standard pleading in response was to deny any waste contrary to the writ, and the issue would be tried by a jury, with the outcome resulting in a conviction for contempt of court.\n\nWhen John Puckering was Lord Keeper, one of his actions was to restrict the issuance of writs of estrepement, as well as other writs such as audita querela, unless he allowed it. Holdsworth suggests this might have been part of an effort to keep the courts of common law from entering into matters of equity.\n\nWhile analogous to the injunction in equity, one major difference is that the grounds for the issuance of the writ was not the inequitable conduct of the defendant, but that the use of the land in the manner prohibited would work to commit a wrong. Also, unlike injunctions and the writ of prohibition, the writ of estrepement merely stopped further damage, and could not command the repair or replacement of property already damaged. Two important similarities are that both are \"in personam\" orders, and that disobedience may result in imprisonment.\n\nThe injunction ultimately supplanted the writ, and the writ was ultimately abolished in England by the Real Property Limitation Act 1833.\n\nIn the United States, the writ of estrepement persisted in some state courts for a time, but is rarely used. For instance, in the 1844 case of \"Brown v. O'Brien\", the writ \"pendente placito\" issued in a Pennsylvania ejectment case where evidence was proffered indicating that the tenants were in the process of cutting timber and digging for minerals in the land at issue. By 1929, one law review noted that the injunction had \"to a great extent\" taken the place of estrepement and common law actions for waste generally. As late as 1978, however, the writ may have been available in Delaware, which has not combined its courts of law and equity. In \"Voss v. Green\", the plaintiffs brought an ejectment action in the Superior Court contending that the defendants had built a driveway on their land, and in response the defendants sought a writ of estrepement because the plaintiffs had plowed up the driveway. The court declined to issue the writ, holding that the damage done was not within the scope of the writ, and that the appropriate relief was an injunction, which would have to be obtained in the Court of Chancery. One source notes that the writ still exists in Pennsylvania and Rhode Island.\n"}
{"id": "45581098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45581098", "title": "FTC v. Balls of Kryptonite", "text": "FTC v. Balls of Kryptonite\n\nFTC v. Balls of Kryptonite is an enforcement action brought in 2009 by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in United States District Court for the Central District of California. The defendant was Jaivin Karnani, a Southern California man, his company Balls of Kryptonite LLC, and several other corporate names they did business as. In 2011 the FTC secured a court order barring Karnani and Balls of Kryptonite from engaging in many of the deceptive business practices that had brought him to the agency's attention.\n\nFor several years before the FTC brought its case, Karnani had been selling consumer electronic devices such as cameras, video game systems and computer software to customers in the United Kingdom. Despite being physically located in California, he registered his websites in British domains, quoted prices in pounds sterling and took other steps to suggest that the business was physically located in the U.K. Customers who bought the merchandise at the prices quoted, usually significantly lower than other, established British retailers, found that delivery took in some cases far longer than the promised 48 hours even though their credit cards were charged immediately and they were told they could not cancel their orders. In many cases, the goods they received were inoperable since they had never been intended for sale in the British or European markets, and were thus not protected by warranty.\n\nComplaints to the U.K.'s Office of Fair Trading (OFT) led to the FTC's enforcement action. In response to its initial complaint Judge Dean D. Pregerson issued a temporary restraining order barring Karnani and his companies from misrepresenting their location on their websites along with the other practices customers had complained to OFT about. It was the first time the FTC had brought an action against an American company that did business exclusively abroad, its first action enforcing the U.S./EU Safe Harbor Privacy Program and one of the first uses of its expanded ability to coordinate its efforts with foreign counterparts under the SAFE WEB Act Congress had passed several years earlier.\n\nThe FTC's decision to pursue the case came in for some criticism. Some commentators, who thought the case title was humorous enough to make extended references to the \"Superman\" comics in their commentary, questioned whether the commission's action against a retailer who did not deceive any American consumers was a wise use of its limited resources, and whether it might have been better to prosecute him in Britain. Another, in the course of criticizing the failings of the European Union's Data Protection Directive when it came to dealing with cloud computing, did not criticize the enforcement action as such but showed that it pointed out how much more work needed to be done in ensuring compliance with the Safe Harbor Program.\n\nIn 2006, the FTC later alleged, Karnani, a resident of Pasadena, California, created two companies, Best Price Brands LLC and Bite Size Deals LLC. He then registered websites in their names with the .co.uk top-level domain, offering consumer electronics such as cameras, video game systems, and computer software. Prices were given in pounds sterling—often considerably below those charged by other online retailers, such as £200 for a Panasonic Lumix camera or £115 for an eight-gigabyte Zune, a significant markdown from its official list price of £199.\n\nThe domain name and the pound pricing led many visitors to believe that the company was based in the United Kingdom. British consumers began ordering items from the site in late 2006. Many found the goods and services deficient, and even fraudulent.\n\nFor example, the company charged buyers' credit cards for their purchases immediately, promising delivery within 48 hours. Many orders, however, did not ship for weeks. Customers who called or emailed about this were often ignored, with those who persisted and/or supplemented their queries with complaints to the Better Business Bureau told that there were delays, such as the item being out of stock, which they had never consented to or been informed of prior to their purchase. When they tried to cancel their orders they were informed that \"company policy\", which they were not made aware of prior to purchase, did not allow them to do so at that point.\n\nThose to whom goods were delivered were often equally dissatisfied. Instructions were sometimes in Spanish or Chinese, making it difficult to use the product. Some products were shipped with plugs and internal wiring meant for the U.S. market, making them unusable in Britain (in a few cases, the company did provide a power converter, the FTC conceded). Even products usable in Britain turned out not to have been manufactured for sale there, or in the European Union (EU) generally, meaning they were not covered by manufacturers' warranties.\n\nThose who attempted to return products met with similar resistance from the website owner, Balls of Kryptonite LLC, which Karnani formed and merged the other two companies into in mid-2007. They were variously told that the time limit for a refund has passed, or that a 50% restocking fee would be deducted from it. One British customer, who decided to return his camera after fearing it might have been damaged during shipping due to insufficiently protective packaging, was allowed to do so only after agreeing to a 20% discount on his refund.\n\nCustomers seeking refunds had to mail the products back at their own expense. Only then did some learn that, despite the domain name, pricing and British address given in some correspondence, the company was actually located in California. This could have made them liable for the import taxes and customs duties on the goods.\n\nThe company did state its true location on its websites, but not \"clearly and conspicuously\" enough to offset the perception that they were British, the FTC later said. This deceit had impacts beyond invalidating any warranties. It meant that, contrary to what British buyers may have thought, their country's regulations on mail-ordered products did not apply to their purchases. Karnani and Balls of Kryptonite also claimed on their website that they had self-certified their compliance with the U.S.-E.U. Safe Harbor Program for protection of personal data, when in fact they had not.\n\nThe dissatisfied customers complained to Britain's Office of Fair Trading, which handles consumer protection issues. Officials there got in touch with their counterparts at the FTC in the U.S. They were able to take action due to the Undertaking Spam, Spyware, And Fraud Enforcement With Enforcers Beyond Borders Act of 2006, commonly known as the SAFE WEB Act, which Congress had passed at the commission's request to help them coordinate actions against Internet fraudsters who operate across international boundaries with similar agencies in other countries, such as OFT. Most relevant to its case against Karnani, the legislation had clarified that the FTC had authority over American companies that did business exclusively with customers abroad. Its action against Karnani and Balls of Kryptonite was the first it had undertaken against one.\n\nIn July 2009 commissioners voted 4–0 to proceed with the complaint; it was formally filed later that month in federal court for the Central District of California. A week later Judge Dean D. Pregerson issued a temporary restraining order barring Karnani, Balls of Kryptonite, any of his other companies (including one he had incorporated in Belize) and anyone employed by him from misrepresenting the company's physical location or its participation in any program sponsored by a third party through any means and delaying orders without giving the buyer a chance to consent to the delay or cancel it. The order also required that he make corporate financial records available to the FTC on request and not start any new companies without notifying their attorneys.\n\nHe was able to stay in business, however, and the company's websites were promptly changed to state clearly that they were based in the U.S. In papers filed by his defense attorneys in response to the FTC, he claimed that the websites had not tried to hide that the company was based in California and that their address was clearly stated. He disputed some of the allegations of deceptive business practices, noting he had given refunds when products were not compatible with the British electrical system. Only 1% of all his customers, he noted, had disputed their credit card charges.\n\nTwo years later, the FTC and Karnani settled the case with a consent decree. The defendants agreed to make the prohibitions of the 2009 order permanent. They were further barred from processing any transaction until the goods were ready to ship and not disputing any customer chargebacks made prior to a year before the decree. A $500,000 judgement against the defendants was entered, but suspended due to their inability to pay unless business records submitted in response to the FTC's requests were found to be falsified. Karnani and the other defendants admitted no wrongdoing.\n\nA few weeks after the consent decree, three lawyers at Arnold & Porter commented on the disposition of the case on their firm's consumer-protection law blog.\n\nThe references to the \"Superman\" characters were a running gag in the post, prompted by the use of \"kryptonite\" in the defendant company's name. \"[I]t could also be argued that it would have been more appropriate to prosecute BOK under Metropolis's—or rather, the UK’s consumer protection laws,\" they observed. \"With increasingly more commerce being conducted over the Internet, it is likely that cross-border fraud similar to what occurred in this case will become more common,\" they concluded. \"As a result, the FTC may have tough decisions as to where to direct their resources, especially given the current budget crisis.\"\n"}
{"id": "58963429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58963429", "title": "Falcis III v. Civil Registrar-General", "text": "Falcis III v. Civil Registrar-General\n\nFalcis III v. Civil Registrar-General refers to a petition filed by Filipino lawyer Jesus Falcis before the Supreme Court of the Philippines. \n\nThe high court was asked about the constitutionality of the provision of the Family Code of the Philippines defining marriage as \"between a man and a woman\".\n\nThe petition was filed by Atty. Jesus Falcis in 2015. \n\nOn March 2018, the Supreme Court of the Philippines approved the scheduling of a same-sex marriage petition that seeks to invalidate Articles 1 and 2 of the Family Code.\n\nDuring the second week of June 2018, the Supreme Court announced that they will hear arguments in a case seeking the invalidation of the Family Code's provisions prohibiting same-sex marriage. The news of the historic oral arguments was also reported by the international media. Duterte also expressed his support for same-sex marriage to be legalized in the Philippines.\n\nOn June 19, 2018, the first wave of arguments commenced with the following arguments made: whether or not the petition is properly the subject of the exercise of the Supreme Court's power of judicial review, whether or not the right to marry and the right to choose whom to marry are cognates of the right to life and liberty, whether or not the limitation of civil marriage to opposite-sex couples is a valid exercise of police power, whether or not limiting civil marriages to opposite-sex couples violates the Equal Protection Clause, whether or not denying same-sex couples the right to marry amounts to a denial of their right to life and/or liberty without due process of law, whether or not sex-based conceptions of marriage violate religious freedom, whether or not a determination that Articles 1 and 2 of the Family Code are unconstitutional must necessarily carry with it the conclusion that Articles 46(4) and 55(6) of the Family Code (i.e.: homosexuality and lesbianism as grounds for annulment and legal separation) are also unconstitutional, and whether or not the parties are entitled to the reliefs prayed for. The Office of the Solicitor General (OSG) under Jose Calida argued against the case. The second session of arguments took place on June 26, 2018.\n\nSeveral Supreme Court justices have hinted that the case may be dismissed due to lack of standing, as Falcis did not apply for a marriage license himself.\n\nTwo days after the first arguments occurred, the presidential palace of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte stated that it was \"too soon for same-sex marriage in the Philippines\", causing outrage from various human rights organizations. Additionally, Senate President Tito Sotto, an ally of the Philippines President, commented: \"Same sex union, no problem. Marriage? Debatable\", saying that he will vote in favor of same-sex civil unions, a turnaround from previous pronouncements in 2016 and 2017 where he was against both same-sex civil unions and same-sex marriage.\n"}
{"id": "16920259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16920259", "title": "Free content", "text": "Free content\n\nFree content, libre content, or free information, is any kind of functional work, work of art, or other creative content that meets the definition of a free cultural work.\n\nA \"free cultural work\" (free content) is, according to the definition of Free Cultural Works, one that has no significant legal restriction on people's freedom to:\n\nFree content encompasses all works in the public domain and also those copyrighted works whose licenses honor and uphold the freedoms mentioned above. Because the Berne Convention in most countries by default grants copyright holders monopolistic control over their creations, copyright content must be explicitly declared free, usually by the referencing or inclusion of licensing statements from within the work.\n\nAlthough there are a great many different definitions in regular everyday use, free content is legally very similar, if not like an identical twin, to open content. An analogy is the use of the rival terms free software and open source, which describe ideological differences rather than legal ones.\nFor instance, the Open Knowledge Foundation's \"Open Definition\" describes \"open\" as synonymous to the definition of \"free\" in the \"Definition of Free Cultural Works\" (as also in the Open Source Definition and Free Software Definition). For such free/open content both movements recommend the same three Creative Commons licenses, the CC BY, CC BY-SA, and CC0.\n\nCopyright is a legal concept, which gives the author or creator of a work legal control over the duplication and public performance of his or her work. In many jurisdictions, this is limited by a time period after which the works then enter the public domain. Copyright laws are a balance between the rights of creators of intellectual and artistic works and the rights of others to build upon those works. During the time period of copyright the author's work may only be copied, modified, or publicly performed with the consent of the author, unless the use is a fair use.\nTraditional copyright control limits the use of the work of the author to those who either pay royalties to the author for usage of the authors content, or limit their use to fair use. Secondly it limits the use of content whose author cannot be found. Finally it creates a perceived barrier between authors by limiting derivative works, such as mashups and collaborative content\n\nThe public domain is a range of creative works whose copyright has expired, or was never established; as well as ideas and facts which are ineligible for copyright. A public domain work is a work whose author has either relinquished to the public, or no longer can claim control over, the distribution and usage of the work. As such any person may manipulate, distribute, or otherwise utilize the work, without legal ramifications. A work in the public domain or released under a permissive licence may be referred to as \"copycenter\".\n\nCopyleft is a play on the word copyright and describes the practice of using copyright law to remove restrictions on distributing copies and modified versions of a work. The aim of copyleft is to use the legal framework of copyright to enable non-author parties to be able to reuse and, in many licensing schemes, modify content that is created by an author. Unlike works in the public domain, the author still maintains copyright over the material, however the author has granted a non-exclusive license to any person to distribute, and often modify, the work. Copyleft licenses require that any derivative works be distributed under the same terms, and that the original copyright notices be maintained.\nA symbol commonly associated with copyleft is a reversal of the copyright symbol, facing the other way; the opening of the C points left rather than right. Unlike the copyright symbol, the copyleft symbol does not have a codified meaning.\n\nProjects that provide free content exist in several areas of interest, such as software, academic literature, general literature, music, images, video, and engineering.\nTechnology has reduced the cost of publication and reduced the entry barrier sufficiently to allow for the production of widely disseminated materials by individuals or small groups. Projects to provide free literature and multimedia content have become increasingly prominent owing to the ease of dissemination of materials that is associated with the development of computer technology. Such dissemination may have been too costly prior to these technological developments.\n\nIn media, which includes textual, audio, and visual content, free licensing schemes such as some of the licenses made by Creative Commons have allowed for the dissemination of works under a clear set of legal permissions. Not all of the Creative Commons’ licenses are entirely free: their permissions may range from very liberal general redistribution and modification of the work to a more restrictive redistribution-only licensing. Since February 2008, Creative Commons licenses which are entirely free carry a badge indicating that they are \"approved for free cultural works\". Repositories exist which exclusively feature free material and provide content such as photographs, clip art, music, and literature.\nWhile extensive reuse of free content from one website in another website is legal, it is usually not sensible because of the duplicate content problem. Wikipedia is amongst the most well known databases of user uploaded free content on the web. While the vast majority of content on Wikipedia is free content, some copyrighted material is hosted under .\n\nFree and open-source software, which is also often referred to as open source software and free software, is a maturing technology with major companies utilising free software to provide both services and technology to both end users and technical consumers. The ease of dissemination has allowed for increased modularity, which allows for smaller groups to contribute to projects as well as simplifying collaboration.\nOpen source development models have been classified as having a similar peer-recognition and collaborative benefit incentives that are typified by more classical fields such as scientific research, with the social structures that result from this incentive model decreasing production cost.\nGiven sufficient interest in a software component, by using peer-to-peer distribution methods, distribution costs of software may be reduced, removing the burden of infrastructure maintenance from developers. As distribution resources are simultaneously provided by consumers, these software distribution models are scalable, that is the method is feasible regardless of the number of consumers. In some cases, free software vendors may use peer-to-peer technology as a method of dissemination.\nIn general, project hosting and code distribution is not a problem for the most of free projects as a number of providers offer them these services free.\n\nFree content principles have been translated into fields such as engineering, where designs and engineering knowledge can be readily shared and duplicated, in order to reduce overheads associated with project development. Open design principles can be applied in engineering and technological applications, with projects in mobile telephony, small-scale manufacture, the automotive industry, and even agricultural areas.\nTechnologies such as distributed manufacturing can allow computer-aided manufacturing and computer-aided design techniques to be able to develop small-scale production of components for the development of new, or repair of existing, devices. Rapid fabrication technologies underpin these developments, which allow end users of technology to be able to construct devices from pre-existing blueprints, using software and manufacturing hardware to convert information into physical objects.\n\nIn academic work, the majority of works are not free, although the percentage of works that are open access is growing rapidly. Open access refers to online research outputs that are free of all restrictions on access (e.g. access tolls) and free of many restrictions on use (e.g. certain copyright and license restrictions). Authors may see open access publishing as a method of expanding the audience that is able to access their work to allow for greater impact of the publication, or may support it for ideological reasons. Open access publishers such as PLOS and Biomed Central provide capacity for review and publishing of free works; though such publications are currently more common in science than humanities.\nVarious funding institutions and governing research bodies have mandated that academics must produce their works to be open-access, in order to qualify for funding, such as the National Institutes of Health, RCUK (effective 2016) and the EU (effective 2020). At an institutional level some universities, such as the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), have adopted open access publishing by default by introducing their own mandates. Some mandates may permit delayed publication and may charge researchers for open access publishing.\nOpen content publication has been seen as a method of reducing costs associated with information retrieval in research, as universities typically pay to subscribe for access to content that is published through traditional means whilst improving journal quality by discouraging the submission of research articles of reduced quality.\nSubscriptions for non-free content journals may be expensive for universities to purchase, though the article are written and peer-reviewed by academics themselves at no cost to the publisher. This has led to disputes between publishers and some universities over subscription costs, such as the one which occurred between the University of California and the Nature Publishing Group.\nFor teaching purposes, some universities, including MIT, provide freely available course content, such as lecture notes, video resources and tutorials. This content is distributed via Internet resources to the general public. Publication of such resources may be either by a formal institution-wide program, or alternately via informal content provided by individual academics or departments.\n\nAny country has its own law and legal system, sustained by its legislation, a set of law-documents — documents containing statutory , usually law and created by legislatures. In a democratic country, each law-document is published as open media content, is in principle a free content; but in general there are no explicit license attributed for each law-document, so the license must be interpreted, is a \"implied license\".\nOnly few countries have explicit licenses in its law-documents, as the UK's Open Government Licence (a CC-BY compatible license).\nIn the other countries, the \"implied license\" comes from its proper rules (general laws and rules about copyright in government works). The automatic protection provided by Berne Convention not apply to law-documents: Article 2.4 excludes the official texts from the automatic protection.\nIt is also possible to \"inherit\" the license from context. The set of country's law-documents is made available through national repositories. Examples of law-document open repositories: LexML Brazil, Legislation.gov.uk, N-Lex of EU countries. In general a law-document is offered in more than one (open) official version, but the main one is that published by a government gazette. So, law-documents can eventually inherit license expressed by the repository or by the gazette that contains it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50528637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50528637", "title": "High heel policy", "text": "High heel policy\n\nA high heel policy is a regulation or law about the wearing of high heels, which may be required or forbidden in different places and circumstances.\n\nHistorically, high heels were used by aristocratic women for cosmetic reasons, to raise their height or to keep their feet and long dresses clean. The style was then subject to sumptuary laws. In more modern times, stiletto heels have been restricted when they might damage the floor surface or cause accidents.\n\nSome dress codes, however, require women to wear high heels so that they appear to be taller and more attractive. Such footwear may be painful and damage the feet, and there have been repeated protests by women workers against such policies. In 2016, a British receptionist was dismissed for not wearing high heels and she then started a petition which attracted sufficient support to be considered by the UK Parliament.\n\nIn 1430, \"chopines\" were high, at times. Venetian law then limited the height to three inches—but this regulation was widely ignored. A 17th-century law in Massachusetts announced that women would be subjected to the same treatment as witches if they lured men into marriage via the use of high-heeled shoes. In 1770, an act was introduced into the British parliament which would have applied the same penalties as witchcraft to the use of high heels and other cosmetic devices.\n\nThe pressure under a stiletto heel is greater (per unit of the very small area) than that under the feet of an elephant. Thus, as the very narrow stiletto heel became more widespread in the 1950s, the owners of many types of buildings became concerned about the effects of large numbers of such heels on their floors, especially in historic and high-traffic public buildings. Specifically, there was concern that the heels would either damage certain types of floor covering or cause minor accidents through heels getting jammed in floor-grills, the gaps in planking, or uneven surfaces. Soft outdoor ground also caused problems, affecting both the surface and the wearer. Wood flooring was the most vulnerable, but carpets, linoleum, and mosaic floors were also considered at risk of damage. Signs were frequently posted attempting to ban stiletto heels, though they were generally ineffective. A 1963 article in a US building maintenance magazine stated, \"Replacement of floors is estimated to have cost at least half a billion dollars throughout the country since the advent of the stiletto heel fashion.\"\n\nWhen stiletto heels were first sold in Africa, many of the wearers fell through the floors of their homes, not realizing that the floor timbers had been partly removed by termites. The U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest Service claimed in 1963 that \"with style changes the stiletto-heel problem has diminished\".\n\nHigh heels can represent contributory negligence by the plaintiff in American personal injury cases involving slip and fall accidents. Many high heel policies in the US are related to concerns over the potential for legal claims.\n\nSome women have challenged the expectation that women should wear high heels in formal social situations. In 2015, a group of women were turned away from a film première at the Cannes Film Festival in France for wearing flat shoes, including a woman physically unable to wear heels due to an operation on one of her feet. The women complained that this was a sexist policy which forced women into a stereotyped appearance; festival organisers later responded that there was no official policy on footwear and stated that they would remind red carpet officials of this.\n\nGuidelines on acceptable dress codes in the workplace are permitted by Canadian law in order to ensure that employees are able to complete their work safely and effectively. However the inclusion of the wearing of high heels in these guidelines has created controversy. Some workplace studies show that women in the hospitality industry who wear high heels have suffered injuries after tripping, falling or slipping. In addition, requirements for appearance which differ for male and female employees have the potential to be considered discriminatory.\n\nDuring the mid-1990s, several US-based airlines required female flight attendants to wear shoes with heels. Minimum heel heights ranged from one-half inch to the two inches mandated by USAir. Flight attendants at times avoided censure by changing into more comfortable shoes during flights, since their supervisors were less likely to be present there.\n\nIn 2009, the UK Society of Chiropodists and Podiatrists released a report outlining the dangers of wearing high heels for extended periods and approached unions and employers to collaborate on measures to ensure risk assessments would be completed on women's footwear, and to offer alternatives to high heels where these were deemed unhealthy.\n\nPolicies that force women to wear heels have been challenged in a number of locations. In 2001, cocktail waitresses in Las Vegas organised a \"Kiss My Foot\" campaign which was successful in getting casinos to relax their requirement to wear high heels. In 2014, waitresses at three restaurant chains in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, claimed that they were required to wear high heels at work despite complaining of pain and injury. Management responded that there was no written policy on wearing high heels. In 2015, the Israeli airline El Al introduced a requirement that female flight attendants wear high heels until passengers had been seated. The airline's workers' union stated that the requirement would endanger the health and safety of the flight attendants and instructed its members to ignore the rule.\n\nSimilar policies were tested again in the UK in 2016 when a temporary receptionist, Nicola Thorp, was sent home unpaid after she refused to follow the dress code at the office of accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers. Outsourcing firm Portico stated that Thorp \"had signed the appearance guidelines\" but after Thorp launched an online petition—\"Make it illegal for a company to require women to wear high heels at work\"—the firm changed their policy. The new guideline states that all female employees \"can wear plain flat shoes or plain court shoes as they prefer.\" The petition gained widespread support from public figures such as Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon and MPs Caroline Dinenage, Margot James and Tulip Siddiq. Two parliamentary committees in January 2017 decided that Portico had broken the law; the company had already changed its terms of employment. The petition gained over 130,000 signatures, sufficient for a debate in the British parliament. This took place on 6 March 2017, when MPs decided the UK government should change the law to prevent the demand being made by employers. However, this was rejected by the government in April 2017 as they stated that existing legislation was \"adequate\".\n\nIn April 2017, the Canadian province of British Columbia amended workplace legislation to prevent employers from requiring women to wear high heels at work. British Columbia premier Christy Clark stated that the government was \"changing this regulation to stop this unsafe and discriminatory practice.\"\n\nAlso in 2017, the Philippines forbid companies from mandating that female employees have to wear high heels at work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11160320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11160320", "title": "In open court", "text": "In open court\n\nIn open court is a legal term in the United States defined by the appearance by a party or their attorney in a public court session such as during a trial. Normally, the public may be present at trials, hearings and similar routine matters.\n\nUnder Article III, Section 3 of the United States Constitution:\nIn the United States, the constitution guarantees criminal defendants the right to a \"speedy and public trial\" under the Sixth and the Fourteenth Amendments. The Sixth Amendment also grants the defendant the right to appear on his or her own behalf requiring leave of the Court in complex criminal cases, and standby counsel may still be required by the judge.\n\nMany courts dealing with children or minors, such as the New York Surrogate's Court, Probate Court, Family court, juvenile court, or widow's and orphan's court do \"not\" normally hold sessions in open court.\n\nAppearance in open court is distinguished from an appearance in a judge's chambers.\n\n"}
{"id": "29504519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29504519", "title": "Japan–Korea Agreement of August 1905", "text": "Japan–Korea Agreement of August 1905\n\nThe Japan-Korea Protocol of August 1905 was made between representatives of the Empire of Japan and the Korean Empire in 1905. Negotiations were concluded on August 13, 1905.\n\nThis treaty granted permission to Japanese vessels to navigate coastal and inland waters of Korea.\n\nThe treaty preamble asserted that the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of His Majesty the Emperor of Japan and the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of His Majesty the Emperor of Korea were \"respectively duly empowered\" to negotiate and to agree upon the specific language of the proposed bilateral treaty:\n\n\nJapanese vessels shall be at liberty to navigate along the coasts and in inland waters of Korea for the purpose of trade in accordance with the stipulations of the present Agreement, which, however, shall not be applicable to navigation between the open ports.\n\nLicenses shall be obtained for all Japanese vessels to be employed in navigation of the coasts and inland waters, upon reporting through the Japanese Consular Officers to the Korean Customs the names and residence of the owners, the names, types and carrying capacity of the vessels, as well as the limits within which such vessels are to navigate. Licenses shall be available for one year from the date of their issue.\n\nUpon receipt of the licenses, fees shall be paid to the Korean Customs ...\n\nJapanese vessels may freely navigate within the limits specified, but shall not proceed to any place not in Korean territory, except in case of stress of weather or other emergency, or in case special permission has been obtained from the Korean Customs.\n\nThe licenses shall be carried on board the vessels during their voyages and shall be shown whenever requested by the Korean Customs, or by local officials of Korea, or by the Chiefs of villages duly authorized by such local officials.\n\nJapanese shipowners shall have liberty to lease land for the purpose of building warehouses at the places where their vessels call. Such owners may also construct piers or wharves on the banks and coasts with the permission of the Korean Customs.\n\nIn case of infraction of the present Agreement by a Japanese vessel, the Korean Customs may cause the license of such vessel to be confiscated, or may refuse to issue a new one, if the offence be found, upon examination, to be of a grave nature.\n\nWhen a Japanese vessel, or the crew thereof, infringes the stipulations of the present Agreement or of other treaties, or when a member of the crew commits any crime, the Japanese Consular Officers shall deal with the case in accordance with the provisions of the treaties and the laws of Japan.\n\nThe present Agreement shall remain in force for a period of fifteen years from the date of its signature, and after the expiration of such period, further arrangements may be made by mutual agreement.\n\nThis \"alleged treaty\" was contrived in a coercive process; and Koreans sought to invalidate the unwanted consequences by presenting evidence to the international community. For example, \n\nThis treaty was confirmed to be \"\"already null and void\" by Treaty on Basic Relations between Japan and the Republic of Korea concluded in 1965.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42173834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42173834", "title": "Joseph Sax", "text": "Joseph Sax\n\nJoseph Lawrence Sax (February 3, 1936 – March 9, 2014) was an environmental law professor, known for developing the public trust doctrine.\n\nBorn and raised in Chicago, Sax graduated from Harvard University in 1957 and then earned a law degree in 1959 from the University of Chicago Law School. After a few years in private practice and at the Department of Justice he began teaching, first with the University of Colorado in 1962 and then at the University of Michigan in 1965. He joined the University of California, Berkeley School of Law in 1986.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1996, Sax worked with the Clinton Administration under Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt.\n\nSax was involved in environmental and conservation law from early in his career, working with the Sierra Club in Colorado. drafting Michigan's environmental law (known as the \"Sax Act\") and working on a variety of water resource cases in California.\n\nIt was while he was teaching law students at the University of Colorado that he realized that there was no satisfactory theory accounting for the public interest in natural resources law, and that his work was \"grooming lawyers who might one day help companies extract resources, mainly from public lands.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23177048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23177048", "title": "Judicial review in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Judicial review in the Republic of Ireland\n\nJudicial review in the Republic of Ireland is a way for the Superior Courts to supervise the Oireachtas to make sure that legislation does not conflict with the Constitution.\n\"Superior Courts\" refers to either the High Court of Ireland, the Court of Appeal of Ireland or the Supreme Court of Ireland and is a specific reference to the greater width of their jurisdiction in comparison to Ireland's lower courts (that is, the District Court and the Circuit Court).\nAn applicant for judicial review in Ireland must start by applying for leave to seek judicial review. This acts as a filter of entirely spurious or unfounded matters. Having been granted leave, the applicant must then remake the entire application for judicial review whereupon the Court will set a date for hearing.\n\nAll judicial review in Ireland is conducted by the High Court unless the applicant wants a review of any decision, activity, ruling or rule of the High Court whereby the review is conducted by the Supreme Court (including appeals of decisions previously made in High Court judicial reviews)\n"}
{"id": "33178999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33178999", "title": "Lex loci protectionis", "text": "Lex loci protectionis\n\nLex loci protectionis (Latin: \"[the] law of the place where the protection is [claimed]\") is a choice of law rule applied to cases concerning the infringement of intellectual property (IP) rights, such as copyrights or patents. \n\nIt stipulates that the law applied to such cases is the law of the \"locus protectionis\", that is, the law of the country for which legal protection for the intellectual property is claimed. Consequently, the law of the country where the intellectual property was created or registered is not applied.\n\n\"Lex loci protectionis\" is generally accepted as the prevailing choice of law rule for IP rights, at least as concerns the existence, validity, scope and duration of the rights. Article 8 (1) of the European Union's Rome II Regulation codifies it as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "4105977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4105977", "title": "List of Orders in Council for Northern Ireland", "text": "List of Orders in Council for Northern Ireland\n\nThis is a list of Orders in Council for Northern Ireland which are primary legislation for the province in the absence of a devolved legislature, and also for those powers not devolved to the Northern Ireland Assembly. The statutory instruments containing the legislation are numbered in the main UK series with a sub-series denoting their position in the Northern Ireland legislation for the year.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23159353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23159353", "title": "List of gender equality lawsuits", "text": "List of gender equality lawsuits\n\nThis page has a list of lawsuits related to gender equality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7734968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734968", "title": "List of trademarked open-source software", "text": "List of trademarked open-source software\n\nThis is a list of free/open-source software whose names are covered by registered trademarks. As many countries provide some form of basic protection for unregistered (common law) trademarks, nearly any free or open-source software title may be trademarked under common law. This list covers software whose trademarks are registered under a country's intellectual property body.\n"}
{"id": "34671042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34671042", "title": "Moral authority", "text": "Moral authority\n\nMoral authority is authority premised on principles, or fundamental truths, which are independent of written, or positive, laws. As such, moral authority necessitates the existence of and adherence to truth. Because truth does not change, the principles of moral authority are immutable or unchangeable, although as applied to individual circumstances the dictates of moral authority for action may vary due to the exigencies of human life. These principles, which can be of metaphysical or religious nature, are considered normative for behavior, whether they are or are not also embodied in written laws, and even if the community is ignoring or violating them. Therefore, the authoritativeness or force of moral authority is applied to the conscience of each individual, who is free to act according to or against its dictates.\n\nMoral authority has thus also been defined as the \"fundamental assumptions that guide our perceptions of the world\".\n\nAn individual or a body of people who are seen as communicators of such principles but which does not have the physical power to enforce them on the unwilling are spoken of as having or being a moral authority. An example is the Catholic Church.\n\nIn this sense, moral authority has been defined as \"the capacity to convince others how the world should be\", as opposed to epistemic authority, \"the capacity to convince others of how the world is\".\n\nSince the Age of Enlightenment, traditional sources of moral authority such as church or state have been viewed with increasing suspicion in Western culture: perhaps indeed all claims to moral authority. Instead of guides, entertainers; in place of ideals, stimulation.\n\nExpertise, or alternatively what Emmanuel Levinas called the tyranny of opinion, or else an appeal to science, may be looked to for alternative sources of moral authority; or there may be a postmodern revulsion from all grand narratives which might ground such narratives in favour of moral relativism.\n\nWhere a figure still wields some degree of moral authority, this may be attributed in large part to his modernist reticence, lack of dogma, and capacity for self-doubt – as opposed for example to the unchallenged moral authority for centuries attributed to Virgil as a \"norma vivendi\".\n\nIn reaction to the erosion of sources of moral authority, Late Modernity has also seen the appearance of various forms of fundamentalism, from a range of religious types to market fundamentalism.\n"}
{"id": "5563315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5563315", "title": "Operation Return to Sender", "text": "Operation Return to Sender\n\nOperation Return to Sender is the name for a massive sweep of illegal immigrants by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency that began on May 26, 2006.\n\nAccording to ICE, the campaign has focused on individuals deemed to be the most dangerous, including convicted felons and gang members, particularly those of the notorious Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) gang, as well as repeat offenders, some of whom had already been deported. As of late April 2007, over 23,000 illegal immigrants had been arrested.\n\nOn Sept. 19, 2006 ICE conducted a sting operation and arrested 11 immigrants in Danbury, Connecticut who came to be known as \"The Danbury 11.\" A federal agent disguised himself as a contractor and enlisted the men to work on a construction site before handing them over to ICE. 9 of the 11 were later released on bail.\nIn January 2007, due to a major push within Operation Return to Sender, raids in the Los Angeles Metro area netted 338 illegal immigrants who were arrested at their homes and apartments and 423 who were identified in area jails since Jan. 17. Those already jailed will be transferred to federal custody when they finish serving their state sentences, said Virginia Kice, spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.\n\nThe sweep netted illegal immigrants from 14 countries in all, including Mexico, Honduras, Ukraine, India, Japan, Poland and Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nAn ICE press release from June 14, 2006 claims that Operation Return to Sender ended June 13, 2006 and brought in \"More Than 2,100 Criminal Aliens, Gang Members, Fugitives and Other Immigration Violators\". However, this is contradicted by numerous citations that the operation is ongoing, including one from the \"Contra Costa Times\" newspaper dated March 9, 2007, which quotes ICE as having arrested 13,000 more people from mid-June 2006 through January 2007, and also outlines the ACLU of Northern California's involvement in filing FOIA requests to find out more information about how ICE is conducting this operation. Raids in Marin County, California under \"Return To Sender\" occurred in early March 2007, showing that the operation continues. On June 6, 2007 ICE arrested 29 individuals in New Haven, Connecticut as part of Operation Return to Sender and arrested a few days later in nearby North Haven. Some of these individuals had no criminal or immigration history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13705897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13705897", "title": "Opt-outs in the European Union", "text": "Opt-outs in the European Union\n\nIn general, the law of the European Union is valid in all of the twenty-eight European Union member states. However, occasionally member states negotiate certain opt-outs from legislation or treaties of the European Union, meaning they do not have to participate in certain policy areas. Currently, four states have such opt-outs: United Kingdom (four opt-outs), Denmark (three opt-outs), Republic of Ireland (two opt-outs) and Poland (one opt-out).\n\nThis is distinct from the enhanced cooperation, a measure introduced in the Treaty of Amsterdam, whereby a minimum of nine member states are allowed to co-operate within the structure of the European Union without involving other member states, after the European Commission and a qualified majority have approved the measure. It is further distinct from Mechanism for Cooperation and Verification and permanent acquis suspensions, whose lifting is conditional on meeting certain benchmarks by the affected member states.\n\nAs of 2015, four states have formal opt-outs from a total of five policy areas.\n\nThe Schengen Agreement abolished border controls between member states. Ireland and the United Kingdom received opt-outs from implementing the Schengen \"acquis\" when the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997 incorporated it into the EU treaties, as they were the only EU member states which had not signed the agreement. However, the specified that they could request to opt into participating in Schengen measures on a case-by-case basis if they wished, subject to unanimous approval of the other participating states. Ireland only joined the UK in adopting this opt-out to keep their border with Northern Ireland open via the Common Travel Area (CTA). Prior to the renewal of the CTA in 2011, when the British government was proposing that passports be required for Irish citizens to enter the UK, there were calls for Ireland to join the Schengen Area. However, in response to a question on the issue, Bertie Ahern, the then-incumbent Taoiseach, stated: \"On the question of whether this is the end of the common travel area and should we join Schengen, the answer is 'no'.\" The opt-out has been criticised in the United Kingdom for hampering the United Kingdom's capabilities in stopping transnational crime through the inability to access the Schengen Information System.\n\nThe and of the Treaty of Amsterdam stipulate that Denmark, which had been a full party to the Schengen Agreement, would continue to be bound by the provisions and would have the option to participate in future developments of the Schengen acquis, but would do so on an intergovernmental basis rather than under EU law for the provisions which fell under the Justice and Home Affairs pillar, from which Denmark obtained an opt-out. However, the protocol stipulates that if Denmark chooses not to implement future developments of the Schengen acquis, the EU and its member states \"will consider appropriate measures to be taken\". In the negotiations for the Lisbon Treaty, Denmark obtained an option to convert its Area of freedom, security and justice (which had incorporated the former Justice and Home Affairs pillar) opt-out into a flexible opt-in modelled on the Irish and British opt-outs. The Protocol stipulates that if Denmark exercises this option, then it will be bound by the Schengen acquis under EU law rather than on an intergovernmental basis. In a referendum on 3 December 2015, 53.1% rejected exercising this option.\n\nAll member states, other than Denmark and the United Kingdom, have either adopted the euro or are legally bound to do so. During the negotiations of the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 the UK secured an opt-out, while a gave Denmark the right to decide if and when they would join the euro. Denmark subsequently notified the Council of the European Communities of their decision to opt out of the euro, and this was included as part of the 1992 Edinburgh Agreement, a Decision of Council, reached following the Maastricht Treaty's initial rejection in a 1992 Danish referendum. The purpose of the agreement was to assist in its approval in a second referendum, which it did.\n\nIn the UK, the Labour government of Tony Blair argued that the UK should join the euro, contingent on approval in a referendum, if five economic tests were met. However, the assessment of those tests in June 2003 concluded that not all were met. The policy of the 2010s coalition government, elected in 2010, was against introducing the euro prior to the 2015 general election.\n\nIn 2000 the Danish electorate voted against joining the euro in a referendum by a margin of 53.2% to 46.8% on a turnout of 87.6%.\n\nWhile the remaining states are all obliged to adopt the euro eventually by the terms of their accession treaties, since membership in the Exchange Rate Mechanism is a prerequisite for euro adoption, and joining ERM is voluntary, these states can ultimately control the timing of their adoption of the euro by deliberately not satisfying the ERM requirement.\n\nThe Edinburgh Agreement of 1992 included a guarantee to Denmark that they would not be obliged to join the Western European Union, which was responsible for defence. Additionally, the agreement stipulated that Denmark would not take part in discussions or be bound by decisions of the EU with defence implications. The Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997 included a which formalised this opt-out from the EU's Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP). As a consequence, Denmark is excluded from foreign policy discussions with defence implications and does not participate in foreign missions with a defence component.\n\nAlthough not a full opt-out, both Poland and the United Kingdom secured clarifications about how the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, a part of the Treaty of Lisbon, would interact with national law in their countries limiting the extent that European courts would be able to rule on issues related to the Charter if they are brought to courts in Poland or the UK. Poland's then ruling party, Law and Justice, mainly noted concerns that it might force Poland to grant homosexual couples the same kind of benefits which heterosexual couples enjoy, while the UK was worried that the Charter might be used to alter British labour law, especially as relates to allowing more strikes. The European Scrutiny Committee of the British House of Commons, including members of both the Labour Party and the Conservative Party, has however cast doubts on the provision's text, asserting that the clarification might not be worded strongly and clearly enough to achieve the government's aims.\n\nAfter the Civic Platform won the 2007 parliamentary election in Poland, it announced that it would not opt-out from the Charter, leaving the UK as the only state not to adopt it. However, Donald Tusk, the new Prime Minister and leader of the Civic Platform, later qualified that pledge, stating he would consider the risks before signing the Charter, and on 23 November 2007 he announced that he would not sign the Charter after all (despite the fact that both his party and their coalition partner, the Polish People's Party, were in favour of signing), stating that he wanted to honour the deals negotiated by the previous government and that he needed the support of Law and Justice to gain the two-thirds majority necessary to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon in the Parliament of Poland. Shortly after the signature of the treaty, the Polish Sejm passed a resolution which expressed its desire to be able to withdraw from the Protocol. Tusk later clarified that he may sign up to the Charter after successful ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon has taken place. However, after the treaty entered into force a spokesperson for the Polish President argued that the Charter already applied in Poland and thus it was not necessary to withdraw from the protocol. He also stated that the government was not actively attempting to withdraw from the protocol. Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs Radosław Sikorski, of Civic Platform, argued that the protocol only narrowly modified the charter's application in Poland, and that formally renouncing the opt-out would require a treaty amendment which would need to be ratified by all EU member states. In April 2012, Leszek Miller, leader of the Democratic Left Alliance, stated that he would sign the charter if he comes to power. According to Andrew Duff, British Member of the European Parliament, \"A Polish constitutional mechanism has since been devised whereby Poland can decide to amend or to withdraw from the Protocol, and such a possibility remains under review.\"\n\nIn 2009, Czech President Václav Klaus refused to complete ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon unless the Czech Republic was given an opt-out from the Charter of Fundamental Rights (as Poland and the United Kingdom had been with Protocol 30) fearing the Charter would allow the families of Germans who were expelled from territory in the modern-day Czech Republic after the Second World War to challenge the expulsion before the EU's courts, though legal experts have suggested that the laws under which the Germans were expelled, the Beneš decrees, did not fall under the jurisdiction of EU law. In October 2009, EU leaders agreed to amend the protocol to include the Czech Republic at the time of the next accession treaty.\n\nIn September 2011, the Czech government formally submitted a request to the Council that the promised treaty revisions be made to extend the protocol to the Czech Republic, and a draft amendment to this effect was proposed by the European Council. However, the Czech Senate passed a resolution in October 2011 opposing their accession to the protocol. When Croatia's Treaty of Accession 2011 was signed in late 2011, the Czech protocol amendment was not included. In October 2012, the European Parliament Constitutional Affairs Committee approved a report which recommended against the Czech Republic's accession to the Protocol. On 11 December 2012, a third draft of the European Parliament's committee report was published, and on 22 May 2013 the Parliament voted in favour of calling on the European Council \"not to examine the proposed amendment of the Treaties\". The Parliament did, however, give its consent in advance that a treaty revision to add the Czech Republic to Protocol 30 would not require a new convention. In January 2014, the new Czech Human Rights Minister Jiří Dienstbier Jr. said that he would attempt to have his country's request for an opt-out withdrawn. This was confirmed on 20 February 2014 by the new Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who withdrew the request for an opt-out during a meeting with President of the European Commission José Manuel Barroso shortly after his newly elected government won the confidence of Parliament. In May 2014, the Council of the European Union formally withdrew their recommendation to hold a Intergovernmental Conference of member states to consider the proposed amendments to the treaties.\n\nDenmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom have opt-outs from the area of freedom, security and justice.\n\nIreland and the United Kingdom have a flexible opt-out from legislation adopted in the area of freedom, security and justice, which includes all matters previously part of the pre-Amsterdam Justice and Home Affairs (JHA) pillar. This allows them to opt-in or out of legislation and legislative initiatives on a case-by-case basis, which they usually do, except on matters related to Schengen. The opt-out from the JHA policy area was originally obtained by both states in the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997, and was retained with the Treaty of Lisbon.\n\nUnder of the Lisbon Treaty, the UK had the option to opt out of all the police and criminal justice legislation adopted prior to the treaty's entry into force. The decision to opt out had to be made at least six months prior to the aforementioned measures coming under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice on 1 December 2014. The UK informed the European Council of their decision to exercise their opt-out in July 2013. While the protocol only permitted the UK to either opt-out from all the legislation or none of it, they subsequently opted back into some measures.\n\nIn contrast, Denmark has a more rigid opt-out from the area of freedom, security and justice. While the Edinburgh Agreement of 1992 stipulated that \"Denmark will participate fully in cooperation on Justice and Home Affairs\", the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997 included a which exempt it, as a matter of EU law, from participating in these policy areas, which are instead conducted on an intergovernmental basis with Denmark. The exception is the Schengen visa rules. When a measure is adopted which builds upon the Schengen acquis, Denmark has six months to decide whether to implement it. If Denmark decides to implement the measure, it takes the force of an international agreement between Denmark and the Schengen states. A failure by Denmark to implement a Schengen measure could result in it being excluded from the Schengen Area. A number of other parallel intergovernmental agreements have been concluded between the EU and Denmark to extend to it EU Regulations adopted under the area of freedom, security and justice, which Denmark can't participate in directly due to its opt-out. These include the Brussels Convention and Dublin Convention.\n\nIn the negotiations of the Lisbon Treaty, Denmark obtained an option to convert its opt-out into a flexible opt-in modelled on the Irish and British opt-outs. In a referendum on 3 December 2015, 53.1% rejected exercising of this option.\n\nSeveral times an EU member state has faced domestic public opposition to the ratification of an EU treaty leading to its rejection in a referendum. To help address the concerns raised, the EU has offered to make a \"legal guarantee\" to the rejecting state. These guarantees did not purport to exempt the state from any treaty provisions, as an opt-out does. Instead they offered a clarification or interpretation of the provisions to allay fears of alternative interpretations.\n\nAs part of the 1992 Edinburgh Agreement, Denmark obtained a clarification on the nature of citizenship of the European Union which was proposed in the then yet-to-come-into-force Maastricht Treaty. The Agreement was in the form of a Decision of Council. The part of the agreement, which only applied to Denmark, relating to citizenship was as follows:\n\nThe guarantee to Denmark on citizenship was never incorporated into the treaties, but the substance of this statement was subsequently added to the Amsterdam Treaty and applies to all member states. This provision stated that:\n\nFollowing the rejection of the Treaty of Lisbon by the Irish electorate in 2008, a number of guarantees (on security and defence, ethical issues and taxation) were given to the Irish in return for holding a second referendum. On the second attempt in 2009 the treaty was approved. Rather than repeat the ratification procedure, the guarantees were merely declarations with a promise to append them to the next treaty.\n\nThe member states ultimately decided not to sign the protocol alongside the Croatian accession treaty, but rather as a single document. A draft protocol to this effect was proposed by the European Council and adopted by the European Parliament in April 2012. An Intergovernmental Conference followed on 16 May, and the protocol was signed by all states of the European Union between that date and 13 June 2012. The protocol was planned to take effect from 1 July 2013, provided that all member states had ratified the agreement by then, but it only entered into force on 1 December 2014.\n\nThe Major ministry negotiated a United Kingdom opt-out from the Social Chapter of the Maastricht Treaty before it was signed in 1992. The Blair ministry abolished this opt-out immediately after coming to power in the 1997 general election.\n\nFollowing the announcement by the government of the United Kingdom that it would hold a referendum on withdrawing from the European Union, an agreement was reached between it and the EU on renegotiated membership terms should the state vote to remain a member. In addition to a number of amendments to EU Regulations which would apply to all states, a legal guarantee would be granted to the UK that would explicitly exempt it from the treaty-stated symbolic goal of creating an \"ever closer union\" by deepening integration. This guarantee was included in a Decision by the European Council, with the promise that it would be incorporated into the treaties during their next revision.\nHowever, following the referendum, in which the UK voted to leave the EU, per the terms of the Decision the provisions lapsed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13559255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13559255", "title": "Past performance", "text": "Past performance\n\nPast Performance is a term used in relation to government procurement, horse racing and mutual fund disclosure documents. In general, \"past performance\" refers to how something has performed in the past. That something could be an athlete, a business, an investment portfolio, an individual stock, a sports team, a race horse, etc.\n\nCrown Commercial Service's Procurement Policy Note 04/15, applicable to central government departments, executive agencies and non-departmental public bodies, sets out UK government policy effective from 1 April 2015 regarding use of suppliers' past performance information when awarding public contracts.\n\nPast performance is a central element of the process used by U.S. government agencies when they evaluate companies and proposals to determine which ones will be awarded contracts. Knowledge and awareness of how past performance is evaluated are critical to successful proposals to perform government work.\n\nAlthough past performance is a natural consideration and has been used as an implied evaluation factor, its use was not formalized by the U.S. government until the 1960s through a Department of Defense past performance reporting system known as the Contractor Performance Report.\n\nDefining past performance as an evaluation factor distinguishes it from past performance information, or relevant information about a contractor’s actions under previously awarded contracts. In practice in the U.S. government contracting market, the term “past performance” includes three elements; 1) what work a contractor performed, 2) judgments about the breadth, depth and relevance of that experience and 3) judgments about how well the contractor performed.\n\nThe Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System, accessible through the Past Performance Information Retrieval System, is the U.S. government enterprise solution for collection and retention of contractor past performance information. The main activity associated with this system is the documentation of contractor and grantee performance information that is required by federal regulations (see Federal Acquisition Regulations part 42.15). This is accomplished in web-enabled reports referred to as CPARS reports or report cards. These reports are available to U.S. government agencies making contract award decisions.\n\nPast Performances appear on horse racing programs such as the DRF (Daily Racing Form), Equibase, and Brisnet. Information on jockeys, trainers, date of races, finishes in races, speed figures, odds and more of the last 10 races are provided to give handicappers a sense of history and information to bet with. Horse racing handicappers study the past performance of each horse in a race, examining among other things the combination of speed, endurance and grit demonstrated by the animal in prior meets.\n\nThe phrase “past performance is not an indicator of future performance” (or similar) can be found in the fine print of most mutual fund literature. Nonetheless, past performance of an investment fund or portfolio, and the management thereof, is frequently considered when judging the fund or the management of it. Demonstrating the ability to outperform peers or index funds repeatedly is seen as a way to evaluate a fund manager’s skill.\n\nThe S&P Persistence Scorecard is published twice a year to answer the question of whether past performance in investment funds matters. This report tracks the consistency of top performers over yearly consecutive periods and measures performance persistence through transition matrices. The University of Chicago’s Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP) Survivorship Bias Free Mutual Fund Database serves as the underlying data source for these reports.\n"}
{"id": "40611622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40611622", "title": "Public Law 113-167", "text": "Public Law 113-167\n\n' (formerly the bill '), a United States public law, that is entitled \"to amend the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act to clarify how the Act applies to condominiums,\" is a bill that was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress. The Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act of 1968 was passed in 1968 with the intention of helping protect consumers from land-related scams, but regulating the sale of land across state lines. The act requires sellers to prepare center information about the piece of property they are trying to sell and disclose it in a \"Property Report.\" The law was originally administered by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, but is currently run by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. H.R. 2600 would make changes to this law related to condominiums.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nH.R. 2600 would amend the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act to exempt from certain registration and disclosure requirements the sale or lease of a condominium unit not already exempt from coverage under such Act.\n\nH.R. 2600 was introduced into the House on June 28, 2013 by Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (D, NY-12). It was referred to the United States House Committee on Financial Services. On September 20, 2013, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor announced that H.R. 1961 would be on the legislative schedule for the week of September 23. It was scheduled to be considered under a suspension of the rules on September 25, 2013. On September 27, 2013, on the verge of a government shutdown by Republicans, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2600 by a vote of 410-0. The bill would provide an exemption for condominiums from ILSA's registration requirements and would apply to all new constructions after enactment. On September 18, 2014, the United States Senate voted to pass the bill with unanimous consent. On September 26, 2014, President Barack Obama signed the bill and it became .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000646", "title": "Public policy doctrines for the exclusion of relevant evidence", "text": "Public policy doctrines for the exclusion of relevant evidence\n\nPublic policy doctrines for the exclusion of relevant evidence, in the law of evidence in the United States, encompass several types of evidence that would be relevant to prove facts at issue in a legal proceeding, but which are nonetheless excluded because of public policy concerns. There are five major areas of exclusion that arise out of the Federal Rules of Evidence (\"FRE\"): subsequent remedial measures, ownership of liability insurance, offers to plead guilty to a crime, offers to settle a claim, and offers to pay medical expenses. Many states have modified versions of the FRE under their own state evidence codes which widen or narrow the public policy exclusions in state courts.\n\nThe exclusionary rule, under which evidence gathered by the police from an illegal search is excluded, is of similar operation but is typically considered separately.\n\nA subsequent remedial measure is an improvement, repair, or safety measure made after an injury has occurred. FRE 407 prohibits the admission of evidence of subsequent remedial measures to show defendant's (1) negligence; (2) culpable conduct; (3) a defect in defendant's product; (4) defect in the design of defendant's product; or (5) the need for a warning or instruction.\n\nEvidence of subsequent remedial measures are generally inadmissible for two reasons. First, courts do not want to discourage defendants from taking steps that further safety. Second, excluding subsequent remedial measures from evidence avoids having to give juries the difficult task of distinguishing between defendant's due care prior to plaintiff's injury, and defendant's due care subsequent to plaintiff's injury.\n\nSubsequent remedial measures are, however, admissible into evidence for \n\nExample: In a slip and fall claim where plaintiff falls on the wooden steps leading into a building, defendant decides, as the ambulance is taking plaintiff to the hospital, to quickly sand down the stairs where plaintiff injured herself. FRE 407 prohibits plaintiff from introducing evidence of this subsequent remedial measure to prove that the steps were hazardous \"at the time of her injury\".\n\nIf defendant says that he did not own the building where the plaintiff fell, and plaintiff disputes this claim, plaintiff may introduce evidence that the defendant sanded the stairs \"to show that defendant did, in fact, own the property on which the steps are located\" at the time her injury occurred. \n\nIf defendant claims that there was nothing he could have done to make the steps safer at the time of plaintiff's slip and fall, and plaintiff disputes this allegation, plaintiff may introduce evidence of the subsequent remedial measure \"to prove that undertaking precautionary measures was, in fact, feasible\".\n\n\nEvidence of a party's ownership of—or lack of ownership of—liability insurance is inadmissible to prove (1) negligence or (2) wrongful conduct because courts do not want to discourage parties from carrying such insurance. FRE 411 states:\n\nThe rule spells out four exceptions to the rule of inadmissibility: evidence of a party's ownership of liability insurance—or of a party's failure to own liability insurance—is admissible to prove (1) a witness' bias or prejudice, i.e. for witness impeachment; (2) agency; (3) ownership; and (4) control.\n\n\nAdditionally, an exception arises where the party's mention of its own liability insurance is inextricably intertwined with another statement that is admissible. For example, if after an automobile accident, the driver of one car runs over to the other and says \"don't worry, my insurance will pay to fix the damage I caused to your car\", the entire statement is admissible not to show that the driver is insured, but that the driver has admitted \"fault\".\n\n\nFRE 410 holds that (1) withdrawn guilty pleas; (2) \"nolo contendere\" pleas; (3) statements made during proceedings regarding guilty pleas; (4) statements made during proceedings regarding nolo contendere pleas; (5) and statements made during plea discussions with an attorney present are inadmissible for public policy reasons even if they are relevant. The motivation behind excluding such pleas from evidence is to encourage plea bargaining.\n\nTwo FRE-contained exceptions apply to this rule: criminal pleas, plea discussions, and related statements are admissible (i) in \"any\" proceeding where another statement made in the course of the same plea or plea discussion has been introduced and the statement ought in fairness be considered contemporaneously with it, or (ii) in a criminal proceeding for perjury or false statement if the statement was made by the defendant under oath, on the record, and in the presence of counsel.\n\nAdditionally, a criminal defendant may waive inadmissibility protections, rendering criminal pleas, plea discussions, and related statements admissible at trial. It is a common practice for prosecutors drawing up plea deals to include terms requiring the defendant to agree that statements made in the course of plea negotiations may be used to impeach the testimony of that defendant, to protect against the possibility of the defendant later changing her story.\n\n\nOffers to settle a claim, and related statements made during a settlement conference, are generally inadmissible under FRE 408. The primary public policy motivation is to encourage litigants to settle their disputes. This rule also recognizes that parties may make settlement offers even where they believe they have no actual liability, in order to avoid the expense of litigation. A 2006 amendment to the rule permits the admission of statements made during settlement discussions between a private party and a regulatory body, when those statements are offered as evidence in a \"criminal\" case, subject to FRE 403. \n\nThe inadmissibility of settlement claims only prohibits the admission of statements, not the admission of facts. Thus, if a party to a settlement conference mentions that she possesses a certain document relevant to the proceedings, the other party may seek to discover that document through legal processes, despite it having first been mentioned in the settlement conference; merely disclosing a document's existence and mentioning it during a settlement conference does not insulate it from being discovered and admitted.\n\nAdditionally, the public policy exception of excluding relevant evidence arising out of an offer to settle cannot not apply if the evidence sought to be introduced is a claim made in a period \"before\" a dispute between the parties arose. \n\nAn offer to pay medical expenses is an offer of this nature made by a party who might potentially be liable for an injury to another is inadmissible despite its relevance. FRE 409 states:\n\nEvidence of an offer to pay medical expenses is inadmissible for the public policy rationale that courts do not want to discourage parties responsible for injuring others from paying for the treatment of those injuries.\n\nStatements made in connection with offers to pay medical expenses, however, are not excluded by FRE 409.\n\n\nCalifornia law excludes from evidence and discovery relevant statements made \"for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation or a\nmediation consultation\" through California Evidence Code (\"CEC\") §§1115-1125, for the public policy purpose of encouraging the resolution of legal conflicts by mediation.\n\nThe exclusionary rule is another rule under which relevant evidence may be excluded, based in part on public policy concerns. It causes evidence gathered by the police from an illegal search to be inadmissible in a criminal case. The exclusion is intended, in part, to discourage law enforcement officials from violating the search subject's constitutional rights against unreasonable search and seizure. However, it is premised as much on the right of the individual accused against such a search as it is on the larger issue of law enforcement behavior. The rule does also reflect on questions of reliability regarding some (but not all) types of evidence that are excluded thereunder. For example, an officer conducting a warrantless search may have more of an opportunity to plant evidence, and a confession coerced out of a party denied access to legal counsel may be false.\n\nIn legal education and discourse, the exclusionary rule is generally treated as a rule of criminal procedure, rather than a rule of evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "43661404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43661404", "title": "Riddell v Porteous", "text": "Riddell v Porteous\n\nRiddell v Porteous [1999] 1 NZLR 1 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding liability in tort for defective products.\n\nThe Bagleys hired Riddell on a \"labour only\" basis to build their house in Mosgiel based on plans drawn up by Bagley's architect. After the house was completed, it was discovered that Riddell had departed from the approved plans as far as the deck was concerned, resulting in rainwater seeping into their house.\n\nThis departure from the plans escaped the councils building inspector.\n\nHowever, before this defect came to their notice, the Bagleys had sold their house to Porteous, who soon discovered the defect.\n\nPorteous subsequently sued Riddell, the Dunedin City Council, and the Bagleys as well, and was originally awarded $21,200 in damages by the District Court.\n\nOn appeal, the High Court set aside this award.\n\nThe Court of Appeal reinstated the District Court's original judgement.\n"}
{"id": "16743195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16743195", "title": "Shurat HaDin", "text": "Shurat HaDin\n\nShurat HaDin, Israel Law Center (ILC), founded in 2003, is a Tel Aviv-based civil rights non-governmental organization (NGO) focused on representing terror victims, and Jewish and Israeli causes. The organization uses the power of the courts in litigation against groups and people it accuses of supporting terrorism or being enemies of Jews and Israel.\n\nShurat HaDin has been described by some as a pro-Israel lawfare-waging NGO.\n\nWhen Shurat Hadin was founded in 2003 its stated purpose was to \"combat terrorism and promote civil rights through research, education and litigation.\"\n\nAccording to its founder, Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, its creation was inspired by the Southern Poverty Law Center in the United States, which used civil litigation to cripple and bankrupt the Ku Klux Klan and neo-Nazi groups in the US.\n\nAccording to a leaked US embassy cable, Darshan-Leitner told a US embassy official in 2007 that her organisation in its early years \"took direction ... on which cases to pursue\" and still \"receives evidence\" from the Mossad, the national intelligence agency of Israel. Darshan-Leitner denies ever saying that to a U.S. diplomat.\n\nShurat HaDin is staffed with activist Israeli attorneys and works with numerous other law offices internationally which serve as co-counsel on cases being litigated in courtrooms in the U.S, Canada, Israel and elsewhere.\n\nBy 2012, Shurat HaDin had 11 employees, three with salaries over $100,000. It retains two public relations firms, one in Israel and one in New York.\n\nThe annual budget is $2.5 million, but the donor(s) are all anonymous.\n\nShurat HaDin has been involved in a range of legal actions in Israel and abroad on behalf of civil rights cases.\n\nPlaintiffs proved claims under the terrorism exception to the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act leading to a $330,000,000 judgement against North Korea. This was the first time that a US court concluded that a foreign regime which abducts an individual who is then never heard from again, has the burden of proving that he has not been murdered.\n\nOn February 24, 2015 a New York District Court jury found the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Palestinian Authority (PA) liable for six terror attacks under the US Anti-Terrorism Act. The jury was unanimous in its decision regarding six terror attacks in Jerusalem that killed and wounded US citizens. The jury awarded the plaintiffs $218,500,000, which was trebled under the Anti-Terrorism Act to $655,500,000. The plaintiff's argued the defendants provided weapons, bombs, logistics, safe houses and money for these attacks, and provided payments to those responsible for the attacks while they were in jail.\n\nIn August, 2016, the verdict was overturned in the appeal court, as \"the federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution\".\n\nShurat Hadin used lawfare to threaten lawsuits against parties associated with the Gaza Flotilla. This was accomplished in three ways: 1) It informed maritime insurance companies that by insuring sea vessels used by terrorists (for delivery of weapons to be used by terrorists), they would be liable for future attacks by those terrorists; 2) It warned Inmarsat, a U.S. based satellite communications provider, that under U.S. law it would be open to charges of aiding and abetting terrorism if it provide services to those Gaza-bound ships; and 3) it filed civil lawsuits against the ships that were to participate in the flotilla.\n\nNitsana Darshan-Leitner of the Shurat HaDin Israel won a case in May 2012 in which she was representing the family of Daniel Wultz, a 16-year-old American who was killed in a suicide bomber attack in a Tel Aviv restaurant in 2006. The case was tried in a U.S. District Court, and represented the first time that a U.S. court issued a judgement against Syria for terror related activities. The amount of the judgement was $323,000,000. The court explained that Iran and Syria were responsible for supporting \"Palestinian militants\" in that bombing which killed 11 people.\n\nOn January 7, 2008, ten families of Sderot (Israel) residents, whose relatives were killed or seriously injured by Palestinian Qassam rockets, filed a lawsuit against the Egyptian government in the Be'er Sheva District Court seeking compensation in the amount of NIS 260,000,000 ($65,000,000 US). The court complaint accuses Egypt of intentionally assisting what it calls Palestinian terror organizations in smuggling explosives and weapons into the Hamas controlled Gaza strip.\n\nThe plaintiffs argue that Cairo assists the organizations by authorizing the smuggling of tons of explosives and thousands of weapons into Gaza. They also argued that the Egyptian government allowed what the group called terrorists to cross back and forth from the Egyptian-held Sinai into Gaza, permitting them an open route to and from what Shurat HaDin asserted to be terrorist training bases in states\nlike Iran, Lebanon and Syria.\n\nOn September 10, 2006, Shurat HaDin and New York attorney Robert Tolchin filed a lawsuit in federal court on behalf of the families of 12 missing Iranian Jews against the former Iranian President Mohammad Khatami. The complaint alleges that the former president was responsible for the kidnapping and torture of their missing family members in Iran. The families, currently residing in Los Angeles and Israel, claim that Khatami instituted the cruel policy of making Iranian Jewish detainees \"disappear\" – that is imprisoning Iranian Jews without trials and refusing to provide their families any information concerning their arrests, status or whereabouts.\n\nThe families of the missing Jews, who are not U.S. citizens, brought the suit under special laws – the Alien Tort Statute and the Torture Victim Protection Act of 1991 – which permit foreigners to sue their tormentors for torture and kidnapping in American courts. The plaintiffs are seeking hundreds of millions of dollars in damages against Khatami for what they assert to be his role in the ongoing disappearance of their relatives. Khatami has refused to answer the complaint and has defaulted the case.\n\nOn May 1, 2008, Shurat HaDin along with former Soviet refusenik, Ida Nudel launched a public campaign to save the life of a Palestinian police officer accused of having assisted the Israeli intelligence services in hunting down fugitive terrorists. The policeman, Imad Sa'ad, has been sentenced to death by a Palestinian military tribunal in Hebron. Sa'ad, it is alleged, provided the Israel Defense Forces with the whereabouts of four suspected bomb makers whom the Palestinian Authority was unwilling to hand over to the Israelis.\n\nShurat HaDin accused the Palestinians of having engaged in a show trial that did not permit the defendant, a father of four, the right to counsel nor the right to call witnesses in his defense. Darshan-Leitner and Nudel wrote to then-president George W. Bush, the European Union and the Vatican to ask for their support.\n\nOn May 13, 2008, Shurat HaDin was co-counsel in filing in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Swiss bank, UBS which is accused by the plaintiffs of financing terror.\n\nThe plaintiffs in the case, all of whom had family members injured or killed in Israel, allege that UBS's unlawful eight-year-long provision of financial services to the Islamic Republic of Iran at the time that the group allege that Tehran was providing material support to terrorist organizations renders the Swiss bank liable for the harm that has been inflicted upon them and their families. This was the first civil action brought by what the group allege to be American victims of Katyusha rocket attacks by Hezbollah.\n\nThe group alleges that the Swiss bank was involved in transferring dollars to regimes such as Iran, Cuba, and North Korea. The UBS operation was uncovered by American soldiers in Iraq in 2003 who discovered brand new dollars, still wrapped in Federal Reserve casings behind a wall in Saddam Hussein's palace. A Federal Reserve investigation of the currency determined that UBS was responsible for illegally transferring between $4 to $5 billion to states designated by the U.S. as sponsors of terrorism between 1996 and 2004. At first UBS sought to deny the extent of the money transfers it had provided to Iran and others, but eventually was compelled to admit the scope of its criminal activities. UBS, one of world's wealthiest banks, was fined $100 millions by the Federal Reserve for its conduct. The lawsuit charges UBS, which has a branch in New York, with aiding and abetting what the group allege to be Iran's support of terrorism, by illegally providing Tehran the dollars it needed to pass along to the terrorist groups for their purchases and attacks.\n\nOn June 30, 2008, Shurat HaDin filed a petition in the Israeli High Court of Justice on behalf of the families of 12 missing Iranian Jews seeking to block the Israeli government from releasing information on the fate of four disappeared Iranian diplomats as part of a prisoner exchange deal with Hezbollah. The petition was heard on Wednesday, July 2, 2008. The Jews were arrested in the 1990s as they sought to escape from Iran across the border with Pakistan and they are believed to still be in Iranian prisons. The Iranian diplomats disappeared in South Lebanon in 1982.\nThe petition demands that the Prime Minister not authorize the transfer of information regarding the diplomats until such time as reliable and detailed information is received about the missing Jews' fate.\n\nShurat Hadin claims it has reliable information that at least one of the Jews is still alive and being held as a prisoner in Tehran. The families contend that the government must honor the obligations imposed upon it by the Israeli High Court approximately two years ago, in a prior High Court proceeding, that [the Israeli government] \"...push forward diligently without sparing any effort in order to gain information about the [12 missing] Jews of Iran.\" The families are insisting that there be a \"quid pro quo\" on information about their family members in exchange for the release of the details on the fate of the missing Iranians.\n\nShurat HaDin emphasized that, the families' are not appealing against the deal to bring back the Hizbollah captives itself but rather are demanding that the fate of the 12 missing Jews be included as a \"quid pro quo\" before any information about the diplomats is released.\n\nOn July 14, 2008, Shurat HaDin and Attorney Robert Tolchin of New York filed suit against American Express Bank (Amex), accusing it of partaking in a transfer of money to Hizbollah. The action was filed in the New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.\n\nRepresenting some 85 victims and their family members, the Shurat HaDin lawsuit alleges that the Amex and the Lebanese Canadian Bank (LCB) unlawfully performed millions of dollars in wire transfers for Hizbollah between 2004 and 2006. The plaintiffs assert that Hizbollah used the funds transferred by Amex Bank and LCB to prepare and carry out the rocket attacks which the terrorist organization rained on Israeli cities between July 12 and August 14, 2006.\n\nThe plaintiffs rested their claims in part on written findings issued by the New York State Banking Department in 2007, which determined that Amex Bank had failed to establish adequate procedures to prevent terrorism financing as demanded by state and federal law. This was the first lawsuit brought by alleged victims of terrorism against a U.S. financial institution. The suite was dismissed by the federal trial judge in 2010 but reinstated on appeal in 2012.\n\nOn February 1, 2011, Shurat HaDin and US attorney David Schoen, Esq. of Montgomery, Alabama filed a federal suit against former president Jimmy Carter and publisher Simon & Schuster over the publication of Carter’s book, \"\". According to the Center's information page, the book violated New York's consumer protection law. \n\nThe plaintiffs, who hope to have the case certified as a class action, are members of the reading public who purchased Carter’s book expecting that they were buying an accurate and factual record of historic events concerning Israel and the Palestinian Arabs. The lawsuit contends that Carter, who holds himself out as a Middle-East expert, and his publisher, intentionally presented untrue and inaccurate information and sought to capitalize on the author’s status as a former President of the United States to mislead unsuspecting members of the public. The complaint alleges that the defendants’ misrepresentations, all highly critical of Israel, violate New York consumer protection laws, specifically New York General Business Law § 349, which makes it unlawful to engage in deceptive acts in the course of conducting business. While acknowledging Carter’s right to publish his personal views, the plaintiffs assert that the defendants violated the law and, thus, harmed those who purchased the book. \n\nSimon & Schuster said the suit was frivolous, without merit, and a “chilling attack on free speech.” The plaintiffs withdrew the suit on May 3, 2011 (three months later) with no money changing hands. At the time, Shoen told \"The New York Times\" that the original suit had \"technical jurisdictional concerns\" and would be filed again in New York state court.\n\nIn February 2012, Shurat HaDin accused World Vision Australia (a Christian relief, development, and advocacy organisation) of providing \"financial aid to a Gaza-based terrorist group\", the Union of Agricultural Work Committees (UAWC), which they also alleged is a \"front for terror group the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine\" (PFLP). World Vision \"suspended its dealings\" with UAWC until the outcome of the investigation. WV resumed working with UAWC after AUSAID and World Vision determined that the allegations were unfounded. A spokesperson said \"UAWC is a nonprofit company that is registered with the Israeli Justice Ministry\". According to The Australian newspaper, 'AusAID has written to Shurat HaDin to confirm that a detailed investigation has been conducted into the claims and no evidence has been found to substantiate them'. In March 2012, Shurat HaDin provided what it described as \"conclusive evidence\" that Gaza-based UAWC was linked to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.\n\nOn 31 May 2012, the Australian Foreign Minister Bob Carr issued a statement that \"An AusAID examination has concluded there is no evidence to support claims by the Israel Law Center (Shurat HaDin) that funding through World Vision Australia to a Palestinian NGO, the Union of Agricultural Work Committees (UAWC) was in violation of section 21 of the Charter of the United Nations Act, 1945.\". He added, \"I understand the material provided by the Israel Law Center has been carefully examined by AusAID in consultation with other agencies including the Australian Federal Police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation\".\n\nOn 6 October 2012, World Vision issued a detailed, 5-page letter to Shurat ha-Din in which it stated that the claims were \"unsubstantiated, and in some circumstances, defamatory\".\n\nIn 2012, Prof. Dan Avnon, a political theorist at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, applied for fellowship at Sydney University and asked Prof. Jake Lynch at Sydney to endorse his application. Lynch refused, citing his leadership with the Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies and his support for the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) campaign. In 2013, Shurat HaDin sued Lynch for violating Australia's anti-racism laws and attempted to use the suit to outlaw BDS in Australia. The Executive Council of Australian Jewry publicly denounced the suit as an inappropriate use of the courts.\n\nIn April 2014, the court struck part of the suit, and Shurat HaDin lawyers narrowed the complaint to the specifics of Avnon and Lynch. But Avnon made known that he did not support the suit. In July 2014, noting that Shurat HaDin did not represent a willing client and did not have a complaint of its own, the court dismissed the case and awarded attorney fees to Lynch. Shurat HaDin told Haaretz that \"the case was thrown out on a technicality, not on the merits of the arguments ... [Lynch's] lawyers came up with a trick to avoid the issue being heard on its merits.\" The Shurat HaDin spokesman said the suit was a warning to other Australian academic institutions.\n\nShurat HaDin is preparing to take the Palestinian Authority (PA) to the International Criminal Court (ICC). In the event that the Palestinian Authority is accepted into the ICC, it will enable the PA to become susceptible to lawsuits. Shurat HaDin is preparing in advance by collecting thousands of testimonies from Israeli victims of Palestinian terrorist attacks. Shurat HaDin Chairwoman Nitsana Darshan-Leitner explained, \"we've received dozens of terror victims' testimonies, from relatively 'light' stories to truly shocking ones.\" Shurat HaDin filed a complaint against Mahmoud Abbas before filing complaints against other PLO officials.\n\nOn January 6, 2015, days after PA appealed to join the ICC, Shurat HaDin filed complaint against three PLO officials, Jibril Rajoub, Majid Faraj and prime minister Rami Hamdallah. A complaint was also filed against Hamas leader Khaled Mashal \n\nOn 8 December 2015, Shurat HaDin posted two racist Facebook pages, one anti-Israel and the other anti-Palestinian Arab in an effort to establish bias at Facebook; Facebook at first removed only the anti-Arab hate page, while maintaining that the overtly anti-Semitic anti-Israel page \"met community standards,\" but later conceded that the pages were alike and also removed the anti-Israel hate page. A lawsuit, \"Lakin v. Facebook\", was filed on behalf of 20,000 Israeli plaintiffs in the State of New York in October 2015.\n\nOn 31 January 2018, Shurat HaDin filed a lawsuit claiming $13,000 in damages to \"emotional\" and \"artistic welfare\" on behalf of three teenage Israelis against the New Zealand Palestinian solidarity activists Justine Sachs and Nadia Abu-Shanab for allegedly convincing the New Zealand singer Lorde to cancel her scheduled tour of Tel Aviv in mid-2018. The lawsuit was filed under the 2011 Law for Prevention of Damage to State of Israel through Boycott. Sachs and Abu-Shanab had earlier penned an open letter on the New Zealand online current affairs magazine The Spinoff in December 2017 urging Lorde to cancel her Israel concert, citing human rights abuses against the Palestinians.\n\nIn October 2018, the Jerusalem Magistrate's Court ruled in favor of the plaintiffs and ordered that the two New Zealand activists pay NIS 45,000 ($12,300) in damages to the plaintiffs, and court fees. This is believed to be the first successful application of the 2011 law.\n\nThe two activists stated that they had \"no intention\" of paying the teenagers, and launched a crowdfunding campaign in order to give the money to \"Gaza Mental Health Foundation\", and raised more than $18,000 for the Gaza project in 3 days. Darshan-Leitner said that legal agreements between Israel and New Zealand would enable here to \"enforce this ruling in New Zealand, and go after [the activists'] bank accounts until it has been fully realized.\" Academic legal experts in New Zealand wrote that attempts to enforce the judgement there were unlikely to be successful.\n\nAccording to the Shurat HaDin's director Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, the NGO was in regular contact with the Mossad as part of the latter's \"Operation Harpoon\" to track terrorist money networks. Darshan-Leitner held regular briefings with Mossad operatives who would tip her off on suspect financing worthwhile pursuing in court discovery hearings. In some cases, the Israeli government provided written affidavits to back up some claims. Darshan-Leitner's role in the operation was voluntary and unpaid.\n\nIn 2012, Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, Director of Shurat HaDin, received the Moskowitz Prize for Zionism for fighting Israel's war on terror in courtrooms.\n\nPhilip Giraldi wrote that Shurat haDin abuses lawfare litigation in U.S. courts, and that \"Many of the charges are frivolous and only intended to advance foreign political interests through exploitation of the U.S. judiciary system. The suits frequently accomplish little beyond tying up American courtrooms. Those who are sued have to waste time and resources defending themselves, which is precisely what is intended ... Despite describing itself as an NGO, the organization [Shurat haDin] works closely with the Israeli government, and received marching orders to stop the Gaza flotilla at all costs, as well as an offer of full support, directly from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ... Depending on one’s viewpoint, it is possible to perceive Shurat HaDin as either a nuisance or as a necessary resource for fighting terror. But either way, there are potential real world consequences that could result from its desire to punish anyone and everyone in any way linked to activity hostile to Israel ... It would also mean that the specious Israeli claim that they have no one to talk to among the Palestinians would become a reality.\"\n\nIn two interviews on \"The Real News Network,\" Michael Ratner, President Emeritus of the US-based \"Center for Constitutional Rights\" and president of the \"European Center for Constitutional and Human Rights,\" said that Shurat HaDin was a Zionist propaganda arm for Israel, dedicated to filing suits all over the place, without necessarily expecting to win them.\n\n"}
{"id": "965224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965224", "title": "Special Courts", "text": "Special Courts\n\nSpecial Courts (Polish \"Sądy Specjalne\") were World War II underground courts in occupied Poland, organized by the Polish Government-in-Exile. The courts determined punishments for citizens of Poland who were subject to Polish law before the war.\n\nAfter the Polish Defense War of 1939. the German authorities of the General Government mobilized all the pre-war Polish policemen to the German service. The so-called Navy-Blue Police (\"Policja granatowa\", nicknamed after the colour of their uniforms) were used as an auxiliary unit of the Gestapo and Kripo, yet they had no means of executing law and order in the occupied country. At the same time, the German police forces and courts were more interested in persecution of Jews and members of Polish intelligentsia and underground rather than common criminals.\n\nFirst underground, ad hoc courts were created alongside some of the first Polish resistance organizations as early as in 1939. At first, they were purely military, concerned only with the cases that would fall under military law (such as treason). On April 16, 1940, the Polish Government in Exile in London decided that the underground Polish courts be created for prosecution of criminals, traitors, informants and collaborators. The structure and law regulating those courts were mostly finalized around 1942.\n\nThe Special Courts tried only the pre-war citizens of Poland who were legally subjects of the Polish law. No citizens of other states (including members of the occupying forces of Germany and USSR) were ever sentenced by the Special Courts. However, at times such claims were made by the Bureau of Information and Propaganda for propaganda reasons; nevertheless, executions of members of the SS and \"Gestapo\" were treated as elements of partisan warfare. The reason for such policy was a belief that the agendas of the Polish Underground State should act as if the occupation and dismemberment of Poland never happened.\n\nPolish special underground courts reviewed about 10,000 to 17,000 cases of collaboration, sentenced over 3,500 individuals to death (2,500 executions were carried out; many others were sentenced to punishments like beatings or fines, or with a recommendation for review of the case after the war).\n\nThere is an ongoing debate whether the World War II Polish Special Courts were lawful and obeyed the elementary laws. According to the historians working for the Institute of National Remembrance the courts fulfilled the five basic conditions:\n\nHowever, some German historians claim that after 1939 Poland did not exist, and the execution of Polish law on German-held territory was therefore against international law. These claims remain controversial, since the annexation of Poland in 1939 was unilateral and acknowledged only by the Axis Powers and the USSR (which later declared its pact with Germany null and void).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1833929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1833929", "title": "Statute of the Council of Europe", "text": "Statute of the Council of Europe\n\nThe Statute of the Council of Europe (also known as the Treaty of London (1949)) is a treaty that was signed on 5 May 1949, which created the Council of Europe. The original signatories were Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and United Kingdom. A state formally joins the Council of Europe by ratifying the Statute.\n\nAs of 2013, it has been ratified or acceded to by 47 European states. All European states have ratified the Statute with the exception of Belarus and Vatican City (the Holy See).\n\nThe treaty was registered with the United Nations with treaty number I:1168, vol.87, page 103. Its date of registration was 11 April 1951.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46594", "title": "Straw", "text": "Straw\n\nStraw is an agricultural byproduct consisting of the dry stalks of cereal plants after the grain and chaff have been removed. It makes up about half of the yield of cereal crops such as barley, oats, rice, rye and wheat. It has a number of different uses, including fuel, livestock bedding and fodder, thatching and basket making.\n\nStraw is usually gathered and stored in a straw bale, which is a bale, or bundle, of straw tightly bound with twine or wire. Straw bales may be square, rectangular, or round, and can be very large, depending on the type of baler used.\n\nCurrent and historic uses of straw include:\n\n\n\nDried straw presents a fire hazard that can ignite easily if exposed to sparks or an open flame. It can also trigger allergic rhinitis in people who are hypersensitive to airborne allergens such as straw dust.\n\nIn addition to its current and historic uses, straw is being investigated as a source of fine chemicals including alkaloids, flavonoids, lignins, phenols, and steroids.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38421516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38421516", "title": "Succession to the Throne Act, 2013", "text": "Succession to the Throne Act, 2013\n\nThe Succession to the Throne Act, 2013, which has the long title \"An Act to assent to alterations in the law touching the Succession to the Throne\" (Bill C-53), (the \"Act\") was passed by the Parliament of Canada to give assent to the Succession to the Crown Bill, which was intended to change the line of succession to the Canadian throne and was passed with amendments by the UK parliament on 25 April 2013. Bill C-53 was presented and received its first reading in the House of Commons on 31 January 2013 and received Royal Assent on 27 March of the same year. The \"Act\" was brought into force by the Governor General-in-Council on 26 March 2015.\n\nSome academics disagreed over the act's constitutionality and effectiveness on altering the line of succession to the Canadian throne. A court motion filed in Ontario for the law to be found unconstitutional has been dismissed. Another court motion filed in Quebec was heard in June 2015 with a ruling issued in February 2016 upholding the \"Act\".\n\nAfter questions from the media were prompted in April 2011 by the introduction to the British parliament of a private member's bill seeking to change British royal succession from agnatic to absolute, Prime Minister Stephen Harper was criticised for his ambivalence toward amendment of the line of succession in Canada, being contrasted with Prime Minister of New Zealand John Key and Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Nick Clegg. Harper stated: \"The successor to the throne is a man. The next successor to the throne is a man... I don't think Canadians want to open a debate on the monarchy or constitutional matters at this time. That's our position. I just don't see that as a priority for Canadians right now at all.\"\n\nOn 28 October 2011, at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting held in Perth, Western Australia, the heads of government of the 16 Commonwealth realms announced that they would introduce legislation to end the primacy of males over females and the disqualification of persons married to Catholic spouses in the succession to the Crown. In a letter to the other realms' heads of government, prior to the Perth Agreement, British Prime Minister David Cameron additionally proposed to limit the requirement to obtain the monarch's permission to marry to the first six people in line to the throne.\n\nHarper stated in October 2011 that, \"at some point, we will table legislation in the House of Commons and it would be my hope that that would be approved quickly.\" In an email to Postmedia News in December 2012, a spokesperson for the Prime Minister stated that the Canadian government was waiting for the British government to reveal its proposed legislation before \"enact[ing] these changes in coordination with our realm partners.\" At the same time, a spokesperson for the New Democratic Party (the official opposition in the 41st Parliament), explained the party is in favour of the reforms. A spokesperson for the federal minister of justice stated a constitutional amendment was not required and the minister intended to present the proposed legislation to parliament without obtaining the consent of the provinces.\n\nThe content of the act is identical to Bill C-53, which was passed unamended. From its inception as a bill the long title has been \"An Act to assent to alterations in the law touching the succession to the throne\" and the short title has been the \"Succession to the Throne Act, 2013\". As a bill, it consisted of a long preamble and three short provisions. The preamble outlined the monarch's powers as prescribed by the \"Constitution Act, 1867\", followed by a summary of the Perth Agreement and the quoted preamble of \"Statute of Westminster 1931\", which expressed the convention that an alteration of the succession rules be assented to by the respective parliaments of all Commonwealth realms. It ended with the acknowledgement of the introduction of the \"Succession to the Crown Bill 2012\" in the Parliament of the United Kingdom. Clause 1 provided the short title; clause 2 stated that the alteration in the law touching the succession to the throne set out in the Succession to the Crown Bill 2012 as laid before the British parliament \"is assented to\"; and clause 3 allowed the Governor General-in-Council to determine the effective date.\nThe wording of clause 2 of the bill was nearly identical to the similar section in the \"Succession to the Throne Act 1937\", passed by the Parliament of Canada to legislatively ratify the Canadian Cabinet's earlier consent to the taking into the laws of Canada of \"His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936\", the act of the British parliament that effected the abdication of Edward VIII as king of Canada, the United Kingdom, and the other Dominions. The \"Succession to the Throne Act 1937\" stated: \"The alteration in the law touching the Succession to the Throne set forth in the Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom intituled 'His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act, 1936' is hereby assented to.\" The \"Succession to the Throne Act 1937\", however, also included His Majesty's \"Declaration of Abdication Act 1936\" in a schedule, something the \"Succession to the Throne Act 2013\" does not do with the \"Succession to the Crown Bill 2012\".\n\nBill C-53 was, along with English and French language versions of the \"Succession to the Crown Bill 2012\", tabled in the House of Commons by Justice Minister Rob Nicholson on 31 January 2013 and given first reading. At the time, Nicholson stated to the House that the Governor General had \"given his consent as far as Her Majesty's prerogatives may be affected to the consideration by Parliament of the bill...\" On 4 February 2013, the bill passed the House of Commons without debate and moved to the Senate. Before the bill was put before the upper chamber, Senators Elaine McCoy, Serge Joyal, and Hugh Segal were all quoted in \"Maclean's\" as desiring a debate in the Senate on Bill C-53. McCoy stated her opinion that the bill was meaningless, as a law passed after 1982 by Britain's parliament cannot have any effect in Canada, while Segal expressed his support for the bill and the government's rationale behind it. All agreed a constitutional amendment would not be required.\n\nOn 5 February, the bill received its first reading in the Senate and the Succession to the Crown Bill 2012–13 was tabled. The bill's second reading in the Senate took place on 7 March 2013 and it was referred to the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. There, on 20 and 21 March, the committee heard from Associate Professor Andrew Heard of Simon Fraser University; Professor of Law Benoît Pelletier, from the University of Ottawa; Vice-Chairman Paul Benoit and Executive Director Garry Toffoli of the Canadian Royal Heritage Trust; Rob Nicholson; Karen Audcent, Donald Piragoff, and Warren Newman from the Department of Justice; and Joe Wild, Assistant Secretary to the Cabinet. The bill was returned to the Senate from the committee on 21 March 2013, unamended.\n\nIn debate during the third reading, on 25 and 26 March, Senator Joan Fraser said that the Canadian parliament was being asked to assent to a bill passed by a foreign parliament, the final form of which had not yet been seen, and that the Canadian bill was to give assent to the bill \"laid before\" the parliament at Westminster, which had been amended since first presented there. Fraser commented that when the Senate had given the bill third reading, she would take that as formal notification that assent was being given to the bill eventually passed in Westminster, but it would have been preferable if Canada had done as Australia and New Zealand were doing: instead of passing a bill to assent to another parliament's legislation, they were passing their own, standalone legislation, thereby asserting that the monarch of each country is whomever each country's laws determines it to be.\n\nSenator Serge Joyal responded by saying that Bill C-53 assented to the British bill by its title, not all its clauses. He argued that the legal force of a bill is essentially a legislative intention, to which some precision can be given, as had been done through the amendments made to the Succession to the Crown Bill 2012 by the British parliament. The original intention approved by all of the 16 prime ministers of the Commonwealth realms had not been altered, but instead made more precise.\n\nAt the cessation of debate, the bill passed unamended and received Royal Assent the next day.\n\nThe \"Act\" was brought into force by order-in-council by the Governor General on 26 March 2015, the same day as the other Commonwealth realms that required their own legislation.\n\nDuring the abdication crisis in 1936, the British government, wishing for speed so as to avoid embarrassing debate in Dominion parliaments, suggested that the governments of the Dominions of the British Commonwealth—then Australia, New Zealand, the Irish Free State, the Union of South Africa, and Canada—regard whoever was monarch of the UK to automatically be monarch of their respective Dominion. As with the other Dominion governments, the Canadian Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King, refused to accept the idea and stressed that the laws of succession were part of Canadian law and thus altering them required Canada's request and consent to the British legislation (His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936) becoming part of Canadian law. Sir Maurice Gwyer, first parliamentary counsel in the UK, reflected this position, stating the Act of Settlement was a part of the law in each Dominion.\n\nIn a meeting of the Special Joint Committee on the Constitution during the process of patriating the Canadian constitution in 1981, John Munro asked then Minister of Justice Jean Chrétien about the \"selective omissions\" of the \"Succession to the Throne Act 1937\", the \"Demise of the Crown Act 1901\", the \"Seals Act\", the \"Governor General's Act\", and the \"Royal Style and Titles Act, 1953\", from the schedule to the \"Constitution Act, 1982\". In response, Chrétien asserted that the schedule to the \"Constitution Act, 1982\", was not exhaustive, outlining that section 52(2) of the \"Constitution Act 1982\" says “[t]he Constitution of Canada includes... the Acts and orders referred to the schedule\" and \"[w]hen you use the word 'includes'... it means that if ever there is another thing related to the Canadian constitution as part of it, should have been there, or might have been there, it is covered. So we do not have to renumerate [sic] the ones that you are mentioning.\" In the same meeting, Deputy Attorney General Barry Strayer stated: \"Clause 52(2) is not an exhaustive definition of the Constitution of Canada so that while we have certain things listed in the schedule which are clearly part of the constitution, that does not mean that there are not other things which are part of the constitution... [The schedule] is not an exhaustive list.\"\n\nThe government's stated position in 2013 was that \"The changes to the laws of succession do not require a constitutional amendment. The laws governing succession are UK law and are not part of Canada's constitution. Specifically, they are not enumerated in the schedule to our \"Constitution Act, 1982\" as part of the Constitution of Canada. Furthermore, the changes to the laws of succession do not constitute a change to the 'office of The Queen', as contemplated in \"the Constitution Act, 1982\". The 'office of The Queen' includes the Sovereign's constitutional status, powers and rights in Canada. Neither the ban on the marriages of heirs to Roman Catholics, nor the common law governing male preference primogeniture, can properly be said to be royal powers or prerogatives in Canada. As the line of succession is therefore determined by UK law and not by the sovereign, the Queen's powers and rights have not been altered by the changes to the laws governing succession in Canada.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada declared unanimously in the 1981 Patriation Reference that the Bill of Rights 1689, a law requiring amendment to implement the desired changes to royal succession, is \"undoubtedly in force as part of the law of Canada\". Furthermore, in \"O'Donohue v. Canada\" (2003) the Ontario Superior Court of Justice found that the Act of Settlement 1701 is \"part of the laws of Canada\" and the rules of succession are \"by necessity incorporated into the Constitution of Canada\". Another ruling of the Ontario Superior Court, in 2014, echoed the 2003 case, stating that the Act of Settlement \"is an imperial statute which ultimately became part of the law of Canada.\" Upon dismissing appeal of that case, the Court of Appeal of Ontario stated \"[t]he rules of succession are a part of the fabric of the constitution of Canada and incorporated into it\".\n\nUnder section 41 of the Constitution Act 1982, changes to the office of the monarch require unanimous consent of all the provinces and the federal parliament. If changes to the line of succession to the Canadian throne were found to fall under this provision, it is possible that any single provincial legislature—such as Quebec's—could hinder any attempts at change. In the aforementioned court decision, Justice J. Rouleau determined that \"unilateral changes by Canada to the rules of succession\" would be \"a fundamental change in the office of the Queen\" requiring authorizations pursuant to section 41 of the Constitution Act, 1982. The precedent in question does not specify whether non-unilateral alterations to the rules of succession would also be considered a fundamental change in the office of Queen, requiring a constitutional amendment under the unanimous consent procedure. The judge stated that \"a constitutional monarchy, where the monarch is shared with the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth countries, is, in [his] view, at the root of [Canada's] constitutional structure\".\n\nAs a matter of common practice for Senate committees reviewing legislation in which a province or territory may have interest, the clerk of the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee in March 2013 contacted each provincial cabinet. The only response came from Andrew Swan, Manitoba's attorney general, who stated in a letter dated 6 March 2013 that, although the Government of Manitoba held no opposition to the proposed changes themselves, \"alterations to the constitutional and legal framework of our nation require consultation with and participation by provinces and territories that is timely and meaningful\" and stressed that the way in which Bill C-53 was proceeding would not be considered \"a precedent for the process to be followed should other circumstances arise in the future.\"\n\nAside from the Minister of Justice, there were three presentations made to the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs regarding Bill C-53.\n\nGary Toffoli and Paul Benoit of the Canadian Royal Heritage Trust outlined how the British and Canadian governments agreed during the abdication crisis in 1936 that whoever is monarch of the UK is not automatically monarch of Canada and, thus, the alteration of the succession in Britain by British law would not extend to Canada without the latter's request and consent that it do so. In line with that, Tofolli argued the term \"Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland\" contained in the preamble to the \"Constitution Act, 1867\", should be interpreted at present not as the \"Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland\" (the successor to the Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland following the independence of the Irish Free State in 1922), as the government has claimed it should be read, but instead as the \"Crown of Canada\", as per both further, post-1922 constitutional development and the \"Interpretation Act, 1985\". (He later wrote \"there is no merit in arguing that there was evolution but that it stopped before the Statute of Westminster... [T]he Crown of Canada must be read as coincident with, not dependent upon, the Crown of the United Kingdom in the \"Constitution Act, 1867\".\") As further evidence of Canada and the UK having separate monarchical offices, Toffoli pointed to the proclamation of Queen Elizabeth II's accession taking place in Canada before she was proclaimed sovereign in the UK.\n\nAccording to Toffoli and Benoit, Canada now has its own succession laws, not only via the principle of received law, but also by virtue of the Canadian Cabinet's request and consent to His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936, which, according to section 4 of the Statute of Westminster, brought that act to Canada as \"part of the law of that Dominion\". The Canadian parliament's subsequent Succession to the Throne Act 1937 (required only by convention outlined in the preamble to the Statute of Westminster) ratified the Cabinet's earlier action and contains the full text of \"His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act\", which itself outlines its effects on the \"Act of Settlement 1701\" and \"Royal Marriages Act 1772\". (Further proof of the existence of the Royal Marriages Act in Canadian law is, according to Toffoli, provided by the approval by the Queen in her Canadian Council in 1981 to the marriage of Charles, Prince of Wales, and Lady Diana Spencer separately to the same approval given by the Queen in her British Council.) Thus, Canada's Succession to the Throne Act 1937 \"is the statutory repository of the law of Succession for Canada\", meaning \"it is irrelevant whether or not [the succession laws are enumerated in the schedule to the Constitution Act, 1982], as [the laws] had already been [patriated] in 1937...\" Given the subsequent repeal of section 4 of the Statute of Westminster in Canada and the enactment of section 2 of the \"Canada Act, 1982\", the United Kingdom's \"Succession to the Crown Act 2012\" has no effect on Canada's succession laws, regardless of the Canadian parliament's assent to it. He claimed the Canadian parliament could possibly alter Canada's succession laws simply by amending Schedule 2 of the 1937 act. The necessity of the consent of the provinces open to debate.\n\nAndrew Heard, an associate professor at Simon Fraser University, and Benoît Pelletier, a University of Ottawa professor, both members of the Monarchist League of Canada, agreed with the Cabinet's argument. Heard stated the \"Succession to the Throne Act, 2013\", was actually unnecessary, as Canadian law dictates that \"whomever is the British monarch is [Canada's] head of state.\" Pelletier asserted the bill did not touch upon the constitutional powers of the Office of the Queen and, hence, was not a constitutional amendment requiring the support of the provincial legislatures.\n\nIn the 1991 publication \"Constitutional Change in the Commonwealth\", author Leslie Zines referred to the assertion by Peter Hogg that a change to the rules of monarchical succession in Canada would require a constitutional amendment according to section 41 of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\". Zines also claimed that, though the succession to Canada's throne was outlined by common law and the \"Act of Settlement 1701\", these were not part of the Canadian constitution, which \"does not contain rules for succession to the throne.\" Richard Toporoski, writing three years later for the Monarchist League of Canada, stated:\n\nif, let us say, an alteration were to be made in the United Kingdom to the Act of Settlement 1701, providing for the succession of the Crown [it] is my opinion that the domestic constitutional law of Australia or Papua New Guinea, for example, would provide for the succession in those countries of the same person who became Sovereign of the United Kingdom. But this would not be true in Canada. There is no existing provision in our law, other than the Act of Settlement 1701, that provides that the King or Queen of Canada shall be the same person as the King or Queen of the United Kingdom. If the British law were to be changed and we did not change our law and by section 41 of the Constitution Act 1982 such a change would require resolutions of the House of Commons and the legislative assemblies of all the provinces to authorise a proclamation by the Governor-General to determine who the Sovereign of Canada should be... the Crown would be divided. The person provided for in the new law would become king or queen in at least some realms of the Commonwealth; Canada would continue on with the person who would have become monarch under the previous law...\n\nUniversity of Ottawa professor Philippe Lagassé expressed in the media his disagreement with the government's proposed method of changing the succession in Canada, noting that, in the patriation of the Canadian constitution, section 4 of the \"Statute of Westminster\" (which required Canada's request for and consent to a British law before any such law became part of the laws of Canada) was repealed and section 2 of the \"Canada Act 1982\", also part of the Canadian constitution, subsequently and absolutely disallowed the parliament of the United Kingdom from legislating for Canada. Furthermore, Lagassé argued first that, as the Canadian Crown is a corporation sole, in which the office and office holder are regarded by law as inseparable, changing how the office holder is selected is a change to the office itself and, secondly, that, by seeking Royal Consent to the bill from the Governor General (which is required for any proposed law that will affect the monarch's prerogatives and privileges), the Justice Minister indicated that the alteration to the succession does indeed touch on \"the Sovereign's constitutional status, powers and rights\". Patrick Taillon, a professor of constitutional rights at Laval University, wrote in \"Le Devoir\" that he also felt the alterations to the succession should trigger Section 41 of the Constitution Act, 1982, and argued that certain laws related to the structures of the state were \"constitutionalised\" by the patriation of the constitution, despite not being listed in section 52(2) of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\"; the \"Supreme Court Act\", for example.\n\nAnne Twomey of the University of Sydney also alluded to Canada having its own laws of royal succession separate from those of the UK when she speculated in a paper on the matter of succession changes that \"no United Kingdom law changing the law of succession could extend to Canada\" and \"[i]f, for example, Prince William had a first born daughter and a second born son, it is conceivable that if the United Kingdom changed its law of succession and Canada did not, the daughter would become Queen of the United Kingdom and the son would become King of Canada.\" Twomey later highlighted the fact that Canada is not included among the territories the British bill lists as being affected by it when law and she stated both that the Canadian bill was ineffective and the government's methods amounted to a \"de-patriation of the Canadian constitution\".\n\nA Queen's University professor of law, Mark Walters, supported the government's position, agreeing that Canada has no laws of succession, since the preamble of the Constitution Act 1867 (which states: \"Whereas the Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick have expressed their Desire to be federally united into One Dominion under the Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland <nowiki>[</nowiki>sic<nowiki>]</nowiki>, with a Constitution similar in Principle to that of the United Kingdom\") should be interpreted as meaning Canada must always have as its monarch the same person as is monarch of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. He concluded that, though \"it makes sense for the Canadian Parliament to comply with the convention that it recognizes [that its consent be granted to a change by Britain to its royal succession laws]\", the Succession to the Throne Act 2013 is not necessary, since it \"is not required by, and will have no effect upon, existing Canadian law\".\n\nFollowing the passage of the bill through parliament, Lee Ward, an associate professor of Political Science at the University of Regina, wrote that the government's proposed method of altering the line of succession in Canada dissolved \"the decades-old notion that the British Crown and Canadian Crown are separate legal entities, as Canada's government concedes that the British parliament will decide in the 21st century who will be our head of state\", thereby possibly \"requir[ing] radical reconsideration of the position of the monarchy in the Canadian constitution\". Ward did, however, acknowledge the political desire to avoid embarking on amending the constitution with Canadian law, which would require the approval of all the provinces.\n\nThe Monarchist League of Canada supported the government's method of amending the succession, while the Canadian Royal Heritage Trust and Citizens for a Canadian Republic stated, respectively, that the same was ineffectual and unconstitutional. University of Toronto history lecturer Carolyn Harris noted a \"political controversy\" around the same subject.\n\nIn the hearing of an application to the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, presented on 7 March 2013, Bryan Teskey argued that the \"Succession to the Throne Act, 2013\" was unconstitutional, being in violation both of section 2 of the \"Canada Act 1982\" (as it endeavoured to allow a British law to have force in Canada) and of section 15 of the \"Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" (as it assented to a law that does not eliminate the prohibition of Roman Catholics from the royal line of succession). Citing the earlier Ontario Superior Court case O'Donohue v. Canada, in which section II of the \"Act of Settlement\" was challenged, Justice Charles Hackland on 9 August dismissed Teskey's case, stating the rules of succession are both a part of the constitutional law of Canada, and thus cannot be invalidated by another part of the constitution (the charter), and beyond the review of the court. Though the ruling confirmed the \"Act of Settlement 1701\" is a part of Canadian law, it made no mention of the matter of Section 2 of the \"Canada Act\" or how the \"Act of Settlement\" in Canadian law would be affected by a British Act of Parliament. Teskey appealed the decision, but, in August 2014, the Court of Appeal for Ontario upheld the lower court decision.\n\nOn 7 June 2013, two professors from Laval University, Geneviève Motard and Patrick Taillon, reported as representing a group with \"a broad spectrum of political views in Quebec: some sovereigntist, some federalist, some supportive of the monarchy and others with more republican views\", filed a motion with the Quebec Superior Court asking for the \"Succession to the Throne Act, 2013\", to be ruled unconstitutional. It stated that its aim was not to contest the political decision to amend the rules regarding the designation of the head of state, but instead argued the act endeavours to amend the constitution—specifically the parts designating \"the head of state of both federal and provincial orders of government\"—but its enactment did not follow the constitutional amending formula set out in section 41 of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\"; if the act does not amend the constitution, it is in violation of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" because it assents to a bill that does not repeal those provisions of the \"Act of Settlement\" disallowing Roman Catholics from becoming monarch of Canada; and it also approves of a British bill not written in both French and English, as required of Canadian legislation by the constitution.\n\nMotard and Taillon further argued that rules of succession dating back to 17th century have been received into Canadian constitutional law and that the Crown has been divisible, with one person being separate sovereigns for each of the Commonwealth realms and thus Canada having a crown that is unique from Britain's or other realms', since the \"Statute of Westminster 1931\" and that the practice of the Canadian parliament assenting to the application of British legislation to Canada ended with the patriation of the Canadian constitution in 1982 and the repeal of Section 4 of the \"Statute of Westminster\". In May 2015, Motard and Taillon's lawyer asserted that the federal government's position is that \"British law applies automatically in Canada\", which he described as \"colonial\".\n\nBefore launching their challenge, the plaintiffs consulted with \"like-minded lawyers, academics and monarchy experts from across Canada\". On 14 June 2013, Antonia Maioni, an associate professor from McGill University, noted that she found it ironic that Quebec sovereignists were basing their attempts to \"shore up Quebec's veto\" over constitutional change based on the argument that Elizabeth II is also the \"Queen of Quebec\". it was reported in July 2013 that the Quebec Crown-in-Council had joined as an intervener in support of the challenge, also supported by the Canadian Royal Heritage Trust.\n\nThe federal justice minister had the option of referring the question directly to the Supreme Court of Canada for a final ruling, though a spokesperson for the minister stated that this possibility would not be pursued. A preliminary hearing took place on 15 August 2013. The hearing in Quebec City, before Justice Claude Bouchard of the Quebec Superior Court, began on 1 June 2015. The federal government was due to reply by 10 October, with another month for a reply from the challenging parties. On 16 February 2016, Bouchard ruled that Canada \"did not have to change its laws nor its Constitution for the British royal succession rules to be amended and effective\" and constitutional convention committed Canada to having a lines of succession symmetrical to those of other Commonwealth realms. The ruling was appealed by the plaintiffs and a hearing was held by the Quebec Court of Appeal in February 2018, but a decision has not yet been released.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18602417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18602417", "title": "The Allston Mall", "text": "The Allston Mall\n\nThe Allston Mall was the provisional name for a space located on the second floor at 107 Brighton Avenue, Allston, Massachusetts, USA. Owned by Marsha Berman (Linden Realty Associates) from approximately 1960 to 2005, it was home to countless examples of low rent alternative entrepreneurialism and cultural experimentation. It also provided off-and-on illegal housing to a number of marginal types. The building itself is a two-storey, mixed-use, commercial brick building constructed somewhere around 1900. It is still in use today but is no longer owned by Berman.\n\nSome of the better-known enterprises in this second-floor area were the Primal Plunge Bookstore (1987–1995), 88 Room art gallery (1988–1998), Naked City Coffee House, the office of Quimby Magazine (1985–1990), Garage Video (1995-2000) and the broadcast space of Radio Free Allston (1997).\n\nThe Primal Plunge Bookstore was founded and operated by Michael McInnis in 1987, who later sold it to Steven Svymbersky, founder of Quimby Bookstore in Chicago. The store was primarily an outlet for the then burgeoning genre of “Zines”, self-published and usually photocopied magazines that created an outlet for a variety of D.I.Y. inclinations. Additionally, the Primal Plunge organized events in the huge central hall around which individual stores and offices were arranged. Notable events included an exhibition of paintings by convicted serial killer John Wayne Gacy, screenings of films by Nick Zedd, a performance by punk rocker GG Allin, and a weekly screening of arcane educational films.\n\n88 Room was an alternative visual arts space that concentrated on thematic and conceptually oriented exhibitions. It was founded by Andrew Guthrie, Angela Mark, and Michael Shores in 1988 (hence the name: 88 Room). After one year Mark and Shores dropped out leaving Guthrie to run the space for another nine years. The space was decidedly non-profit, addressing some of the social and cultural issues of the times, most notably the withdrawal of NEA grants from controversial artists in the late 1980s. Gaining a positive reputation among local emerging artists, the gallery was under-reported in the local media. Some notable show were “Pillow Talk”, an exhibition that addressed human sexuality, curated by the collaborative team “Dear Me Suz”: Guthrie, Cheri Eisenberg, and Ron Platt (then an assistant curator at MIT List Visual Arts Center) and “Unknown NY”, a group show curated by Winston C. Robinson that featured a hardly-known-at-the-time Karen Kilimnik. The 88 Room was incorporated as a tax exempt non-profit under the name Local Idea Council, Inc., which occasionally mounted exhibitions at the same location after 88 Room had folded.\n\nThe Naked City Coffee House grew out of Naked City magazine (which for a time had offices at 107 Brighton Avenue) published by Al Nidle who later founded the Zeitgeist Gallery in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Naked City Coffee House was a weekly open mic forum for singer/songwriters and poets. It is where folk singer/songwriter Dar Williams performed for the first time.\n\nQuimby Magazine was a monthly magazine organized by a group of local artists and friends headed by Steven Svymbersky. It shared offices with The Primal Plunge space. The magazine included comics, writing, and visual art. Svymbersky later moved to Chicago and used the name of the magazine for his bookstore.\n\nGarage Video was a specialty video store that focused on hard to get B-movies and foreign films. Also, Garage video hosted video nights and live music events locally. In 1995, during the difficult first year of the business, the owner-manager of the shop was an example of an illegal tenant living in the Allston Mall. When business improved, so did his living arrangements and he moved into an apartment.\n\nRadio Free Allston was started by Steve Provizer using a 20-watt FM broadcaster bought through a mail order supplier. It was on the air from May to October 1997. Radio Free Allston broadcast from the 88 Room, which at this stage had been only intermittently producing exhibitions. The station was technically illegal, operating without a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) license, but Provizer sought to distance himself and Radio Free Allston from the descriptive “Pirate Radio” by providing a community service in the form of news programming, senior citizen shows, minority forums, and interviews with local businesses, politicians, artists, and social activists. In addition, a wide range of music programming included, but was not limited to, Hip-Hop, Latin, and all genres of Rock, Roots, and R&B. Day-to-day operations, fund raising, equipment maintenance, and logistics depended on a core of dedicated volunteers. The station was awarded a certificate of merit by the Boston City Council, but was shut down by the FCC a few days before its first 72-hour broadcast featuring a House, Drum and Bass, Hip-Hop DJing marathon. Allston-Brighton Free Radio followed in Radio Free Allston's footsteps, a free-form AM radio station that existed off and on in the Mall from 2000 to 2005 and featured a wide array of programming.\n\nPrimal Plunge\n\n88 Room:\n\nRadio Free Allston:\n\nSpecific\n"}
{"id": "5813209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5813209", "title": "Treaty of Whampoa", "text": "Treaty of Whampoa\n\nThe Treaty of Whampoa () was a commercial treaty between France and China, which was signed by Théodore de Lagrené and Qiying on October 24, 1844 aboard the warship \"L’Archimède\". It is considered an unequal treaty by many sources.\n\nBased on the terms of the accord, China granted the same privileges to the Kingdom of France as it had done to Britain in the Treaty of Nanking and subsequent treaties. These privileges included the opening of five harbors to French merchants, extraterritorial privileges French citizens in China, a fixed tariff on Sino-French trade and the right of France to station consuls in China.\n\nAlthough French prime minister Guizot only had given Lagrené a mandate to negotiate a commercial treaty with France, Lagrené decided that he wanted to enhance France's international prestige by securing a rescission of Yongzheng Emperor's prohibition of Christianity in China from 1724. By so doing, France could become the protectorate of Catholics in China, just like France played the same role in the Levant. After protracted negotiations with Qiying, most of which Lagrené entrusted to his interpreter , the Daoguang Emperor issued an edict in February 1846, which legalized the practice of Christianity in China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21017364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21017364", "title": "Universal Service Directive 2002", "text": "Universal Service Directive 2002\n\nThe Universal Service Directive or formally Directive 2002/22/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services addresses so called universal service obligations and users' rights related to telecommunications in the European Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11634753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11634753", "title": "Vũng Tàu Charter", "text": "Vũng Tàu Charter\n\nThe Vũng Tàu Charter (Hiến chương Vũng Tàu) was a provisional new constitution for South Vietnam which was introduced on the 16 August 1964 by General Nguyễn Khánh. It was known as the Vũng Tàu Charter from Khanh's preferred coastal residence in Vũng Tàu.\n\nThe constitution led to the Buddhist crisis, large scale protests in the country led by Buddhist groups, as the constitution reduced civilian representation in the government, gave Khanh the President's role and would have allowed press censorship. This led President Johnson to state that South Vietnam would have to show signs of political cohesion and stability before there would be military intervention against the North.\n"}
{"id": "19390176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19390176", "title": "Ziglar v. Abbasi", "text": "Ziglar v. Abbasi\n\nZiglar v. Abbasi, 582 U.S. ___ (2017), is a Supreme Court of the United States case in which the Court determined unlawfully present aliens arrested in the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks cannot sue for money high level federal officials for the conditions of their confinement. The case was consolidated with Hastey v. Abbasi, and Ashcroft v. Abbasi. It was argued on January 18, 2017.\n\nThe class action civil lawsuit was filed by the Center for Constitutional Rights (CCR) against the then-Attorney General John Ashcroft, FBI Director Robert Mueller, former INS Commissioner James Ziglar, and employees of the Metropolitan Detention Center (MDC) in Brooklyn, New York, on the behalf of a number of Muslim, South Asian, and Arab non-citizens who, under the pretext of immigration violations, were held in detention for several months.\n\nDuring the immediate U.S. government response to the September 11 attacks, federal officials sought out and detained illegally present aliens, arresting 762 in all, 60% in the New York area. Aliens “of high interest” to national security would not be deported but were instead “held until cleared” by the Federal Bureau of Investigations. 84 of these aliens were held by the MDC.\n\nOn April 17, 2002, plaintiffs sued in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, alleging that the United States Department of Justice and MDC's behavior violated both the Equal Protection Clause and the substantive due process clause, and that they had a right to sue under an implied cause of action created by \"Bivens v. Six Unknown Named Agents\" (1971).\n\nThe lawsuit charges that the Immigration and Naturalization Service unlawfully held the plaintiffs several months after the completion of immigration cases brought against them to allow the FBI to investigate potential links to terrorism, an alleged violation of their First, Fourth, and Fifth Amendment rights. The suit additionally alleges that the conditions of detainment of these prisoners, as well as the length of detainment, violated their rights, as prisoners were held in the Administrative Maximum Special Housing Unit (ADMAX SHU); deprived contact with their attorneys, families, and friends; prevented from the practice of their religions; and treated inhumanely in various ways, including being verbally and physically abused. David D. Cole, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, is one of the attorneys on the case. Plaintiffs' trial attorney from CCR was Rachel Meeropol, a granddaughter of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg.\n\nOn June 14, 2006, U.S. District Judge John Gleeson refused to dismiss the plaintiffs’ substantive due process and equal protection claims. In February 2008, the case was reviewed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, including then-Circuit Judge Sonia Sotomayor. On December 18, 2009, a two judge panel of the Second Circuit affirmed in an unsigned per curiam decision, with Sotomayor not participating due to her elevation to the Supreme Court of the United States. The Second Circuit remanded to Judge Gleeson for further consideration under the new pleading standards created by \"Ashcroft v. Iqbal\" (2009), a separate case regarding conditions at the MDC.\n\nOn November 3, 2009 The Center for Constitutional Rights announced that the six Metropolitan Detention Center plaintiffs had settled their claims against the United States for 1.26 million dollars.\n\nPlaintiffs eventually filed four amended complaints, incorporating by reference April and December 2003 United States Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General reports investigating the abuses at MDC. On January 15, 2013, Judge Gleeson dismissed all claims against the federal DOJ defendants but denied the MDC defendants' motions to dismiss the constitutional conditions of confinement claims, the unreasonable strip search claim, and the conspiracy claim.\n\nOn June 17, 2015, the Second Circuit ruled that the case could proceed. Second Circuit Judges Rosemary S. Pooler and Richard Wesley affirmed Judge Gleeson with regard to the MDC defendants but reversed with regard to his dismissal of the claims against the DOJ defendants, over dissenting Judge Reena Raggi's argument that the DOJ defendants were entitled to qualified immunity. On December 11, 2015, a judge’s request for rehearing en banc was denied by an equally divided circuit, with Judges Raggi, Dennis Jacobs, José A. Cabranes, Peter W. Hall, Debra Ann Livingston and Christopher F. Droney dissenting.\n\nOn February 29 and April 1, 2016, Circuit Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg granted the Solicitor General of the United States’s applications to extend the deadline to file a petition for a writ of certiorari. On October 11, 2016, the Supreme Court agreed to review the case, with Justices Sotomayor and Elena Kagan recusing themselves. Commentators are not optimistic for the plaintiffs, noting that the Supreme Court has granted all eight of the government's last requests to review counterterrorism cases it had lost below, and that the plaintiffs have never then won. On January 18, 2017, one hour of oral argument was heard, where Ian Heath Gershengorn, the acting Solicitor General of the United States, appeared for the federal petitioners, a private attorney appeared for the MDC Warden, and the CCR’s Meeropol appeared for the detainees.\n\nOn June 19, 2017, the Supreme Court delivered judgment in favor of the federal officials, reversing in part, vacating in part, and remanding by a vote of 4-2. Justice Anthony Kennedy, joined fully by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito, and partially by Justice Clarence Thomas, found that the implied cause of action created by \"Bivens v. Six Unknown Named Agents\" (1971) should not be extended to reach the federal officials' detention policy.\n\nThe Court began by recounting the history of the \"Bivens\" remedy, noting that the Court has since only extended it twice, in 1979 for gender discrimination and in 1980 for cruel and unusual punishment. Calling that era an \"ancien regime\", the Court explained that it is now more mindful of separation of powers by looking for clear legislative intent before allowing claimants to seek damages.\n\nIf a claim arises in a new context to \"Bivens\", then some special factor must be identified that makes the judiciary better suited than the legislature to deciding that there is a new cause of action. The Court first found that the claims regarding the federal government's detention policy were in a new context because they bore little resemblance to familiar \"Bivens\" claims. Next, the Court found that there was no special factor calling for judicial intervention, highlighting that the claimed damages regard national security decisions by high level Executive Branch officials in response to a terrorist attack, that there was Congressional silence in response, and that alternative relief was available to the detainees through an injunction or the writ of habeas corpus. As such, the detainees could not sue the federal officials.\n\nThe Court next found that the claims of detainee abuse against MDC Warden Hasty were in a new context to \"Bivens\" because prior precedent regarded the prison abuse of convicted felons in violation of the Eighth Amendment, rather than the detainees’ claims under the Fifth Amendment. The majority remanded the claims against Warden Hastey to the lower court for it to analyze any special factors. Finally, the Court granted each defendant qualified immunity on the civil conspiracy claim, acknowledging without resolving the longstanding circuit split regarding the impossibility of conspiring within a single government department.\n\nThomas refused to join the paragraph in the opinion of the Court remanding the lawsuit against MDC Warden Hasty.\n\nJustice Stephen Breyer, joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, respectfully dissented. Breyer disagreed strongly enough to read his dissent aloud from the bench at the opinion announcement.\n\n\n"}
