{"id": "10776534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10776534", "title": "Abernethy (charity)", "text": "Abernethy (charity)\n\nAbernethy, formerly known as the Abernethy Trust (founded in 1971) is a non-profit organization with a charitable status. Abernethy runs four outdoor activities centres and a bunkhouse in Scotland, providing outdoor instruction and residential facilities. The team staffed by committed Christians.\n\nAbernethy was established in 1971 when the Walker family donated their estate and buildings at Nethybridge. About 10 years later Miss Mary Currie, owner of the Hamilton Arms Hotel on the Isle of Arran, gave her property to be used as a Christian Centre resulting in the birth of the Arran Outdoor Centre. In 1984 the Trust accepted the gift of Brae Lodge at Loch Tay from Mr and Mrs Barratt, which ran under the Abernethy banner as the Ardeonaig Outdoor Centre. The fourth centre to come under Abernethy was the Ardgour Outdoor Centre on the Kilmalieu Estate, across the loch from Fort William. A few years later this centre became the home of the Abernethy Trust School of Adventure Leadership (in 1997). The last centre to be added to the Abernethy Trust was Barcaple Outdoor Centre, in 1996. This Centre was already operating as a Christian outdoor centre, independent from the Abernethy Trust, but Barcaple approached Abernethy asking if they could merge their ministry in Dumfries and Galloway with that of Abernethy. This officially happened on 1 January 2001. Around the same time it became apparent that the Arran Centre had reached the end of its effective period of service and the property was sold off and the proceeds used to support the other centres. Abernethy also runs an additional winter base at a Chalet in the Swiss Alps, and provide ski holidays from the end of December until the beginning of March.\n\nAbernethy caters to a wide range of people including (but not limited to): primary schools; youth groups (both Christian and non Christian); family weeks in the summer and winter; youth camps throughout the year; student expeditions; Charity and university groups. A range of training courses are also offered. \n\nThe activities provided include:\nAbseiling, Archery, Bushcraft, Challenge Activities, Climbing and Bouldering, Coasteering, Crate Climbing, Dry Slope Skiing, High Ropes Course, Hill Walking, Jacobs Ladder, Kayaking, King Swing, Mountain Biking, Orienteering, Raft Building, Sailing, Sea Kayaking, Skiing, Snow Boarding, Team Building, Tree Climbing, Tree Top Trail, Weasling, Windsurfing, Zipwire. \n\nEach centre also boasts various facilities additional facilities including tennis court, swimming pool, squash court, games hall, dry ski slope, indoor climbing wall, games room and a theatre lounge - complete with fully equipped AV Facilities (although not all of the centres have all of these). \n\nThe four Abernethy adventure centres are located at:\nAnd Glen Kin, the bunkhouse, is situated near Dunoon. \n"}
{"id": "16098103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16098103", "title": "American Journal of Sexuality Education", "text": "American Journal of Sexuality Education\n\nThe American Journal of Sexuality Education is a peer-reviewed academic journal established in 2005 and published by Routledge. It publishes articles on current research, programmatic overviews, resource reviews, and other articles related to sex education. The journal is edited by William J. Taverner with associate editor Karen Rayne, and is an official journal of the American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists.\n\nThe journal was formerly published by Haworth Press, which was acquired by Routledge in 2007. The journal was co-founded by William J. Taverner and Elizabeth Schroeder.\n\nThe \"American Journal of Sexuality Education\" is abstracted and indexed in Scopus, LGBT Life, Academic Search Complete, and CSA Social Services Abstracts.\n"}
{"id": "44583145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44583145", "title": "Association of College and University Broadcasting Stations", "text": "Association of College and University Broadcasting Stations\n\nThe Association of College and University Broadcasting Stations (ACUBS) was an organization of educational radio stations, created as a result of Fourth National Radio Conference, held by the U.S. Department of Commerce. It was primarily a \"program idea exchange\" with 25 total members that occasionally made attempts to rebroadcast programs shared between them. The original constitution for the organization read:\n\nACUBS held its first annual conference July 1 and 2 1930 in Columbus, Ohio joining with the Institution of Education by Radio. It eventually changed its name to the National Association of Educational Broadcasters (NAEB) in 1934.\n\n"}
{"id": "20333916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20333916", "title": "Beaconhouse School System", "text": "Beaconhouse School System\n\nThe Beaconhouse School System is one of the largest private school networks in the world. Established in November 1975 as the Les Anges Montessori Academy for toddlers, Beaconhouse has since grown into a global network of private schools, institutes, and universities, giving education to over 274,000 students from pre-school to post-graduation. Many of these students study at the group's flagship network, the Beaconhouse School System, while others are enrolled at The Educators, a parallel school network operated by the group.\n\nBeaconhouse School System has now grown into an international company with independent divisions in Belgium, Malaysia, Oman, Pakistan, the Philippines, Thailand, the UAE and the United Kingdom. Its activities extend beyond education in some countries. Most of its branches are located in Pakistan with 30 branches throughout the country.\n\nThe first Beaconhouse school opened in Lahore, Pakistan, in 1975. From its initial association in the 1980s with the Moray House School of Education in Scotland, to its teacher training programme initiated in 1993 in collaboration with the University of Bradford, Beaconhouse has organised in-service teacher training. Today, more than half its teachers have internationally recognised teaching certificates while the rest are enrolled in the permanent in-service programme. In addition, Beaconhouse sends senior academics to the UK annually to pursue master's degrees in education and professional development.\n\nIn 1996, the World Bank Group, through its private sector wing, the International Finance Corporation, entered into a financing arrangement with Beaconhouse aimed at the construction of new school campuses.\n\nIn September 2012, the founder and chairperson of the Beaconhouse Group, Mrs. Nasreen Mahmud Kasuri, received a \"Pakistan Women Power 100 award\".\n\nBeaconhouse owns school companies and educational institutes around the world. Some of these are profiled below.\n\nThe first Beaconhouse school, Les Anges Montessori Academy, opened in Lahore, Pakistan, in 1975. Today, Beaconhouse has established over 146 private schools in more than 30 cities across Pakistan. These institutions collectively provide preschool education, primary education, secondary education and preparation for the international General Certificate of Education (GCE) and local Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations.\n\nBeaconhouse operates campuses for students of varying ages in the following Pakistani cities: [Bahria enclave] Abbotabad, Bahawalpur, Faisalabad, Gujranwala, Gujrat, Hafizabad, Islamabad, Jhang, Jhelum, Karachi, Kharian, Lahore, Mandi Bahauddin, Mardan, Mirpur, Multan, Nowshera, Okara, Peshawar, Hyderabad, Quetta, Rahim Yar Khan, Rawalpindi, Sadiqabad, Sahiwal, Sargodha, Sheikhupura, Sialkot, Sukkur, and Wah Cantonment.\n\nBeaconhouse has also helped fund or manage several other educational programs in Pakistan:\n\nHeadquartered in London, Beaconhouse Educational Services Limited, or BESL, was set up by Beaconhouse as a school management company. It also serves as a holding company for Beaconhouse schools in Asia and the Middle East. BESL manages the conceptualisation and construction of start-up schools, the acquisition of existing schools, and day-to-day school operations.\n\nBESL currently owns and operates the following schools in the UK:\n\nThe Beaconhouse School System was the first Pakistani education system to cross borders to Malaysia. Beaconhouse Malaysia Sdn Bhd was established in 2004 to operate schools in Malaysia.\nBeaconhouse owns eleven schools in Malaysia, all of them in or around Kuala Lumpur. Of these, seven are preschools and four – Sekolah Sri Inai, Sri Lethia, Sri Murni and Beaconhouse-Newlands Kuala Lumpur – are primary and secondary schools.\n\nIn late 2005, Beaconhouse acquired Dame Theresiana de Montealegre School, a private school based in Manila, Philippines, that offers English-medium education to over 200 students in an upper-middle income suburb of the city.\n\nBeaconhouse acquired a second school, St Paul Learning Centre, in Cebu City, the second largest city in the Philippines.\n\nIn early 2012, Beaconhouse entered into a partnership with the Angels in Heaven school in Cabuyao, Laguna, south of Manila. Divided over two campuses located close to each other, the school caters to students at kindergarten, elementary and high school level.\n\nIn 2014, Beaconhouse entered a partnership with the Yamssard School Group, which subsequently became known as the Beaconhouse Yamsaard Schools Group. The enterprise includes three bilingual schools, and one international school. The bilingual schools, BYS Ladprao in Bangkok, BYS Rangsit in Pathum Thani, and BYS Hua Hin, offer a mix of local and premium English programmes to a predominantly Thai market, with the premium programmes being offered at an international standard.\nBeaconhouse International School (BYIS) is a purpose-built international school catering to the expatriate community in Bangkok. Built on a site close to the centre of Bangkok, BYIS currently caters to children aged 2 to 11, with plans to go up to senior school.\n\nIn 2010 Beaconhouse completed a strategic partnership with the SIS Group of Schools, comprising the popular Singapore International Schools (SIS) and its other national plus (private) schools. The Group has close to 3,000 students.\n\nThe first branch of Beaconhouse in Bangladesh commenced its first academic year in August 2006 and relocated from Gulshan to Banani, a neighbourhood in Dhaka.\n\nBeaconhouse established its first school in Muscat, Oman, in September 2006. This school has been established through Al-Kanz Education, a joint venture between Beaconhouse UK (which owns majority shares) and a local Omani group.\n\nIn 2009 Beaconhouse acquired the Gulf Nursery in Sharjah. The same year the Group also entered into a public–private partnership with the Abu Dhabi Education Council (ADEC) to improve the general performance of a cluster of government schools, with particular emphasis on ensuring significant improvement in students' achievement in English, mathematics and science. From September 2017, Beaconhouse Newlands school is commencing its operations in Al-Warqa, Midriff area in Dubai. Newlands School Dubai will initially cater for children aged 3 to 11 years, but will expand over the following years to include around 1,200 children up to the age of 18 years. Led by an experienced UK Head with a strongly multicultural, English-speaking faculty, Newlands School is designed to cater to a diverse student body including South Asian, Arab and Western expats along with Emiratis. The school offers the National Curriculum for England culminating in internationally recognised UK qualifications (IGCSE and A Levels) that will provide students with a dependable route to universities worldwide.\n\n\nLaunched towards the end of 2011, The Beaconhouse Times Online is an interactive news portal developed by Mudassir Ali that connects the Beaconhouse community, including parents, across 9 countries. A network of student and teacher correspondents provides campus news on a regular basis, facilitating the sharing of achievements of Beaconhouse students, teachers and staff members across the world.\n\nThe Beaconhouse Group is involved in a number of activities that extend beyond education.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10617472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10617472", "title": "Boards of Education in India", "text": "Boards of Education in India\n\nThe following boards of education are present in India:\n\nGujarat Secondary Education Board\n"}
{"id": "31594968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31594968", "title": "Budapest Business School", "text": "Budapest Business School\n\nBudapest Business School (BBS) () is a public university business school specialised in business studies and social sciences located in Budapest, Hungary. Founded in 1857 by merchants and bankers of Austria-Hungary in order to establish the economic vocational training of higher education in the empire and in Central Europe. It is the oldest public business school in the world, and second oldest among business schools, after the ESCP Europe.\n\nThe Budapest Business School is Hungary's market leading and largest business school and conducts education and research in leadership, economics, operations management, marketing, entrepreneurship, organizational behavior, and other areas; as of this time, its most acclaimed programs are finance, accounting, strategic management, and tourism. The School offers a wide range of graduate-level academic programs and concentrations. In the latest academic year the Budapest Business School offers 12 Bachelor's degree programmes, in case of most programmes in English, French, German and Hungarian language as well. Offers 12 Master's degree programmes, of which the most populars are Master of Finance, Master of Management (equal to MBA), Master of International Business and Master of Tourism Management. Moreover, offers PhD in Management doctoral school, 51 post-graduate professional qualification with either Hungarian, English, German, Dutch or French state degree accreditations, being recognized within the European Union and throughout the world.\n\nBudapest Business School was founded as the Pest Academy of Commerce that was established in 1857, which is the official predecessor of the BBS faculties College of Finance and Accountancy and the College of Catering, Commerce and Tourism. Pest Academy of Commerce (German: Pester Handelsakademie, Hungarian: Pesti Kereskedelmi Akadémia) was founded by the second president of the Pest Chamber of Commerce, József Appiano, Antal Valero (first president of the Pest Chamber of Commerce, and later Pest Mayor) and by Habsburg Emperor Francis Joseph. At the beginning, the language of education was German at the academy.\n\nIt was the first higher educational institution for business studies in Austria-Hungary, thus it was the first business school in Central Europe. Moreover, it is the oldest existing business school in the world, following the ESCP Europe with its campuses in Paris, London, Berlin, Madrid, and Torino. After the cities Buda and Pest merged, the institution was renamed to Budapest Academy of Commerce. Most of the business professionals and economists of the country gained their qualifications there as it was the only business school in the country that time.\n\nArchitect Győző Czigler designed the Alkomány street campus of the Budapest Academy of Commerce in 1882, and the construction was finished in 1885, when the construction of the Hungarian Parliament Building was also starting directly next to it. He was the architect of the Széchenyi thermal bath and many other famous buildings. The campus at the Alkotmány street is still one of the main campuses of the Budapest Business School. BBS's campus at the Markó street is also located in Downtown Budapest. It is also a monumental building, designed by famous architect Ferenc Kolbenheyer (father of Erwin Guido Kolbenheyer) in neoclassical style in 1872. The Markó street campus of the Budapest Business School is a close but more modest kin of the top-ranked ETH Zurich, designed by Gottfried Semper and Gustav Zeuner. There is a famous Council Room at the Markó street campus called Lotz Room, full with paintings painted by Károly Lotz and Mór Than. Many of the conferences of the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union was held in this room, and in other lecture rooms of the Markó street campus. Budapest Academy of Commerce was a private business school until 1949, when it was secularized by the government, becoming a public business school.\n\nAfter the school was renamed and changed several times, the College of Accountancy was established in 1953, and the College of Catering and Commerce was established in 1969. The forerunner of the College of International Management is the School of International Commerce that was established in 1957.\n\nIn January 2000, the colleges created the Budapest Business School and became faculties of the university.\nThe university was awarded the Quality Award of Higher Education by the Minister of Education in 2010.\nIn March 2011, the College of Business Administration faculty was established out of the College of Finance and Accounting campus in Zalaegerszeg.\n\n\nBBS is dedicated solely to the study and research of business and social sciences, and is the only university in Hungary to be so. BBS awards a range of academic degrees spanning bachelors, masters and PhDs. Profile of the university's well established degree programs is the following:\n\nBudapest Business School also offers 51 postgraduate professional degree programs.\n\nThe Budapest Business School (BBS) is a higher education institution with wide-ranging international relations. It has active connections with more than 200 foreign higher education institutions in nearly 50 countries on five continents. There are academic programmes in international cooperation at several levels at BBS. Students taking part in the International Business Economics programme in English can be awarded the degree of a Dutch partner institution, the Avans Hogeschool's International School, Breda or a German partner HEI, the Fachhochschule Frankfurt am Main University of Applied Sciences, Frankfurt am Main. The same study programme in French is jointly run with the University of Picardie Jules Verne in Amiens. Graduates of this programme are also awarded a French degree. In addition to dual award programmes, there are three bachelor programmes running in a foreign language: Commerce and Marketing in English and German, Finance and Accounting in English, while Tourism and Catering in English and German. An English-language Masters Programme in Tourism-Management was launched in September 2011, and in International Relations will be launched in September 2012. The graduates can also enroll in an Anglia Ruskin University (ARU) postgraduate degree (MA) programme entitled MA International Business delivered in Budapest. BBS offers English-language PhD Programme also, in collaboration with ARU. Due to the excellent connections with Hagen University of Distance Learning certain subjects taken in the Hungarian programme are recognised by the German university.\n\nBBS takes part in numerous international projects - either as a consortium leader or consortium partner. At present BBS has exchange agreements with more than 170 institutions of higher education in nearly 30 countries and we have a wide range of Finnish, French, German, and Spanish connections within the framework of Erasmus programmes. BBS is noted for its wider-ranging Asian relations that include cooperation with Japanese, Chinese, Indian, Russian, Thai and Vietnamese higher education institutions.\n\nBudapest Business School is the only higher educational institution in the world that hosts several offices (Local Committees) of AIESEC. AIESEC is the third largest non-profit organization in the world, after the United Nations and the Red Cross. It is run by students, getting the university students and the corporate sector together, providing exceptional experiences for students. As there is one AIESEC office for each BBS faculty, there are exceptionally three AIESEC offices at the Budapest Business School, out of the five AIESEC offices in the city of Budapest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31231126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31231126", "title": "Bullying in teaching", "text": "Bullying in teaching\n\nSchool teachers are commonly the subject of bullying but they are also sometimes the originators of bullying within a school environment. When an adult bullies a child, it is referred to as psychological, emotional, or verbal abuse.\n\nWhile teacher bullying is recognized as serious and harmful, there are no statistics on either teachers bullying others or teachers being bullied. However, according to one article, a high percentage of teachers admit to bullying students.\n\nComprehensive research carried out in the UK found that teaching was one of the occupations at highest risk from bullying:\n\nIn another survey, the Economic and Social Research Institute found bullying to be more prevalent in schools (13.8pc) than other workplaces (7.9pc).\n\nStudents with learning disabilities may be especially at risk for teacher bullying.\n\nThere are complex issues with reporting bullying by teachers, not only for children, but also parents. By means of their position of power over the child, power that enables them to impact the child's present and future, children and parents are reluctant to report. There are specific signs that parents should watch for as their child is unlikely to disclose that the teacher is in fact the bully.\n\nFurthermore, a teacher who bullies may present as a Jekyll and Hyde figure: he or she is often celebrated and popular so their abuse can go on for long periods of time undetected. Lacking research on teachers in classrooms, once again it is hard to be sure, but certainly in teaching a sport, it can be seen that adults are often rewarded for bullying conduct that would never be tolerated or condoned if done by a child.\n\nIn a school setting, this is true for teachers in the classroom as well as in their role as coaches of school sports.\n\nParsons identifies teacher bullying as often being part of a wider bullying culture within a school, with a complex web of dynamics such as:\n\nA common manifestation of teacher bullying is staffroom bullying where teachers are bullied by other teachers or school managers.\n\nIn investigating teacher bullying, it is important to differentiate a teacher or coach who is demanding versus one who is demeaning. So \"yelling\" for instance can be highly productive and motivating, but if it involves belittling and is laced with putdowns and swearing, it becomes abusive. Bullying by teachers can take many forms in order to harass and intimidate including:\nBullying of teachers can take many forms in order to harass and intimidate including:\n\nBullies often exploit positions of seniority over the colleagues they are intimidating (see rankism) by:\n\nIn some cases, teachers are ignored and isolated by colleagues in the staffroom or turned down for promotion or training courses (see silent treatment). Other times, teachers are ostracized as whistleblowers when they report to administrators on students' reports of bullying being done by their colleagues.\n\nThe power imbalance of teacher to student is greater than peer to peer and may well intensify the impact. \nThe possible impacts of bullying of teachers include:\n\nIn April 2012, Stuart Chaifetz, a father of an autistic boy, released a video on YouTube providing evidence that his son was allegedly the subject of emotional abuse at the hands of his teacher and aide at Horace Mann Elementary School, in the Cherry Hill Public Schools district. The evidence was secured when Chaifetz wired his son before sending him to school. When he listened to the audio recording, according to one news report, \"Chaifetz says he caught his son's teachers gossiping, talking about alcohol and violently yelling at students. He took the audio to the Cherry Hill School District, where officials fired one of the teachers involved after hearing the tape. Chaifetz's son was relocated to a new school, where Chaifetz says he is doing well.\" However, it appears that students with learning disabilities may be especially at risk for teacher bullying.\n\nIn 2011, select members of the Board, the Chaplain and Headmaster at St. Michaels University School were informed that teachers were abusing students in the basketball program. They received an eleven-page document written by a lawyer, who was also a parent of a student at the school, outlining the incidences of \"child abuse\" occurring on basketball teams at the Senior School. Parents were not informed; teachers remained in position. Although not knowing about this document, throughout the year, at least five families made significant formal complaints to Board members, the Chaplain and Headmaster about the abusive coaching conduct. In 2012, at least thirteen students, at the request of the Headmaster, approved of detailed, written testimonies about the verbal, emotional and some physical abuse they were suffering at the hands of their teachers who were coaching them as a co-curricular.\n\nHow they were treated by the Headmaster, the school's Board of Governors, lawyers hired by the school, and educational authorities was the subject of a front-page story by award-winning investigative journalist, Robert Cribb, as well as a CTV W5 episode. The story was the catalyst for a book, Teaching Bullies: Zero Tolerance on the Court or in the Classroom by Jennifer Fraser, PhD. Fraser's book puts the story in the context of extensive research into the work of psychologists, psychiatrists, and neuroscientists in order to explore the oftentimes taboo subject of Teacher and Coach Bullying.\n\nInformed by research into the serious, extensive, and often irreparable damage to adolescent brains in particular, Fraser has launched an awareness campaign on Facebook and Twitter (@teachingbullies) in an attempt to get lawmakers to put emotional abuse into the criminal code along with sexual and physical abuse. Neuroscientists believe it does similar if not identical harm to developing brains.\n\nIn June 2014, Britain proposed the \"Cinderella Law\" which would put emotional abuse in the Criminal Code.\n\nTeachers being portrayed as bullies have made into popular culture, along with works with teachers being bullied by other teachers, students, and even the principal.\n\n\n\n\n\nBooks\n\nAcademic papers\n\n"}
{"id": "13931631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13931631", "title": "Civilekonom", "text": "Civilekonom\n\nCivilekonom, literally \"civil economist\", is a professional title in Sweden (with corresponding titles in Denmark and Norway, see below) which traditionally refers to an individual who holds either a Bachelor's degree or a Master's degree in business administration and economics (with a major in business administration and a minor in economics, or vice versa). Unlike the English language usage, in Swedish, \"ekonomi\" (\"economy\") is commonly used as an umbrella designation for both business- and economics-related subjects.\n\nAs an academic title it was first introduced by the Stockholm School of Economics for the degree that the school offered, and was created in parallel to the already established engineering degree , which etymologically is the same as the English expression civil engineer.\n\nFormally, the exam certificate for a \"civilekonom\" would say \"ekonomexamen\" (\"degree in economy\"), or be a general Bachelor's (\"kandidat\") or Master's (\"magister\") degree.\n\nAlthough the title remains unprotected in Sweden and the aforementioned practice is still in use, as of 2007 a new academic degree called \"Civilekonomexamen\" (Master of Science in Business and Economics) has been introduced which can be awarded after four years of studies in business administration and economics by the following universities in Sweden:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55709022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55709022", "title": "Dairy Council", "text": "Dairy Council\n\nThe Dairy Council is a British organisation founded in 1920 to promote the widespread consumption of milk in the UK, and advocate its health benefits.\n\nIt was founded on 24 February 1920, and incorporated on 4 February 1925 as the National Milk Publicity Council, situated on Southampton Street, London. From 1983 until 2001 it was known as the National Dairy Council. \n\nDuring WWII it had to curtail its activities as milk was heavily rationed. Sale of milk in the UK was three pints per head each week in 1939, rising to five pints in 1951.\n\nIt is situated in Holborn, west of Holborn tube station, next door to the Food Standards Agency in the offices of Dairy UK. Sodexo UK & Ireland is on the opposite side of High Holborn. It is a subsidiary of Dairy UK.\n\nIt produced slogans to consume milk such as \"Drinka Pinta Milka Day\" in the 1950s. It placed large adverts in national newspapers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40230002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40230002", "title": "Deadline24", "text": "Deadline24\n\nDeadline24 is an annual programming competition organized by a Polish company, Future Processing, for software developers and students from all over the world. The finals of the contest last 24 hours and are held in extreme conditions. It is always organized in the venues closely related to the industrial tradition of the Silesia Province (Poland). Competition tasks are prepared by programmers working at a Gliwice-based company, Future Processing. The marathon is free of charge.\n\nFirst edition of Deadline24 was organized by Tomasz Łakota and Mateusz Brzeszcz, and it took place in 2009 in Gliwice, Poland. Back then, it was the only challenge of this type in Poland.\nCurrently, it is an international competition and every year it becomes more and more popular. In 2016, for the first stage of the competition, 1,479 players signed up. In qualifying round attended by representatives of: Poland, Germany, Czech Republic, Russia, Ukraine, Hungary, Great Britain, Spain, Slovakia, Estonia, China, Egypt, Indonesia, Nigeria, Brazil, and India.\n\nThe contest consists of 2 rounds:\n1. An elimination round, where entrants have to complete a five-hour challenge via the Deadline24 website. \n2. The finals, which lasts 24 consecutive clock hours.\n\nThe qualifying round lasts 5 hours and is conducted via the Internet. The teams receive tasks and necessary input data. The objective is to find the solution (in any way) and to transfer it to the verification server within a given time. The best 20-30 teams qualify for the final. The qualifying round is open for all the teams who have registered via Deadline24 website before the registration deadline.\nThe final task of the contest consists of an appropriate interaction with the contest server under the terms and conditions specified in the task. Communication with the server is conducted using TCP/IP protocol.\nParticipants work on their own equipment (the organizer provides one 230V power outlet and one LAN RJ-45 jack or a plug-in cable for each team) and are allowed to choose any working environment and programming language. They may use any materials and auxiliary devices they bring with them, except for any devices providing access to external support. The access to any external help is strictly forbidden.\nThe competition is organized by Future Processing, a software development company from Gliwice, Poland. It operates in the global market and specializes in producing software for industry, international trade, and services. The company, which became a Microsoft certified partner in 2007, provides outsourcing services, but also creates its own products which set new quality standards.\nIn 2016, the company was awarded the title of the Outsourcing Service Provider of the Year by the Global Sourcing Association. It was also a finalist among a top employers competition in Silesia, Poland. In 2016, Future Processing launched the Better Future campaign which presents the possibilities of smart technologies in four main sectors: City, Healthcare, Planet, and Property.\nFuture Processing is also the organizer of a Polish national conference – Quality Excites, dedicated to software quality, Future Dev Day – a programming conference, and a series of lectures and workshops known as DPTO (Polish: Dobre Praktyki Tworzenia Oprogramowania) which stands for Good Practices in Software Creation.\n"}
{"id": "28170586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28170586", "title": "Double-loop learning", "text": "Double-loop learning\n\nDouble-loop learning entails the modification of goals or decision-making rules in the light of experience. The first loop uses the goals or decision-making rules, the second loop enables their modification, hence \"double-loop\". Double-loop learning recognises that the way a problem is defined and solved can be a source of the problem.\n\nDouble-loop learning is contrasted with \"single-loop learning\": the repeated attempt at the same problem, with no variation of method and without ever questioning the goal. Chris Argyris described the distinction between single-loop and double-loop learning using the following analogy:\n\nDouble-loop learning is used when it is necessary to change the mental model on which a decision depends. Unlike single loops, this model includes a shift in understanding, from simple and static to broader and more dynamic, such as taking into account the changes in the surroundings and the need for expression changes in mental models.\n\n\"A Behavioral Theory of the Firm\" (1963) describes how organizations learn, using (what would now be described as) double-loop learning:\n\n"}
{"id": "16078693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16078693", "title": "Education in the Comoros", "text": "Education in the Comoros\n\nPractically all children attend Quranic school for two or three years, starting around age five; there they learn the rudiments of the Islamic faith and some classical Arabic. When rural children attend these schools, they sometimes move away from home and help the teacher work his land.\n\nFrance established a system of primary and secondary schools based on the French model, which remains largely in place. Comoran law requires all children to complete eight years of schooling between the ages of seven and fifteen. The system provides six years of primary education for students ages six to twelve, followed by seven years of secondary school. In recent years, enrollment has expanded greatly, particularly at the primary level. About 20,750 pupils, or roughly 75 percent of primary-school-age children were enrolled in 1993, up from about 4p in the late 1970s. About 17 percent of the secondary-school age population was enrolled, up from an estimated 7 percent fifteen to twenty years earlier. Teacher-student ratios also improved, from 47:1 to 36:1 in the primary schools and from 26:1 to 25:1 in secondary schools. The increased attendance was all the more significant given the population's high percentage of school-age children. Improvement in educational facilities was funded in 1993 by loans from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and the African Development Bank. Despite the spread of education, adult literacy in 1993 has been estimated at no better than 50 percent.\n\nThe Comoros has no university but instead has post-secondary education, which in 1993 involved 400 students, is available in the form of teacher training, agricultural education training, health sciences, and business. Those desiring higher education must study abroad; a \"brain drain\" has resulted because few university graduates are willing to return to the islands. Teacher training and other specialized courses are available at the M'Vouni School for Higher Education, in operation since 1981 at a site near Moroni. Few Comoran teachers study overseas, but the republic often cannot give its teachers all the training they need. Some international aid has been provided, however, to further teacher training in the islands themselves. For example, in 1987 the IDA extended credits worth US$7.9 million to train 3,000 primary and 350 secondary school teachers. In 1986 the government began opening technology training centers offering a three-year diploma program at the upper secondary level. The Ministry of National Education and Professional Training is responsible for education policy.\n\nAs elsewhere in Comoran society, political instability has taken a toll on the education system. Routinely announced reductions in force among the civil service, often made in response to international pressure for fiscal reform, sometimes result in teacher strikes. When civil service cutbacks result in canceled classes or examinations, students have at times taken to the streets in protest. Students have also protested, even violently, against government underfunding or general mismanagement of the schools: the World Bank stated in 1994 that the quality of education resulted in such high rates of repetition and dropouts that the average student needed fourteen years to complete the six-year primary cycle.\n\nPrimary education is compulsory until the age of 14. However, the government does not enforce attendance, and boys are often given preference. In 2002, the gross primary enrollment rate was 90 percent and in 1999, the most recent year for which data are available, the net primary enrollment rate was 55 percent. Gross and net enrollment ratios are based on the number of students formally registered in primary school and therefore do not necessarily reflect actual school attendance. In 2000, 44.2 percent of children ages 5 to 14 years were attending school. There is a general lack of facilities, equipment, qualified teachers, textbooks and other resources. Salaries for teachers are often so far in arrears that many refuse to work.\n\n"}
{"id": "50790429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50790429", "title": "Escuela Técnica Raggio", "text": "Escuela Técnica Raggio\n\nThe Escuela Técnica Raggio () is a government-run secondary school in Buenos Aires, Argentina. It is on Avenida del Libertador, in the Núñez neighborhood, near the Avenida General Paz.\n\nThis is the only technical school in Buenos Aires that did not belong to the National Council of Technical Education (CONET), a national organization that grouped together industrial schools between 1959 and 1994.\n\nThe Raggio Technical School was designed and directed by civil engineers Emilio Seitún and Andrés T. Raggio, brother of Rómulo Raggio, the sponsor of the construction and donor of the building.\n\nThe school originally had two pavilions, the \"Lorenzo Raggio\" for the boys, and the \"María Celle de Raggio\" for the girls, both named in honour of the parents of the Raggio brothers. \n\nAndrés Raggio managed the project and directed the work. The school was inaugurated on 8 December 1924, in a ceremony that was attended by both the Argentine President Marcelo Torcuato de Alvear and the intendant of Buenos Aires, Carlos Noel. Other attendees included the president's lady Mrs. Regina Pacini, the secretaries of the intendant Dr. Emilio Ravignani and Don Antonio Barrier Nicholson. \n\nOn the occasion of the expansion of the Plaza San Martín in the \"Retiro\" neighborhood, the municipality dismounted the Argentinian Pavilion between 1932 and 1934 and transferred the sculpture symbolizing the Argentinian Republic to the Raggio Technical School.\n\nThe school was donated to the City of Buenos Aires.\n\nThe Buenos Aires City Legislature declared of educational interest the approval for the 90 years of the foundation of the Raggio Technical Schools to be celebrated on 8 December of 2014. The resolution, approved on 30 October 2014 in the session room gave rise to a commemoration that took place in the \"Salón Dorado\" of the Buenos Aires Legislature.\n\nIts romantics archs characterize the building as Neoclassical architecture. It was raised in two pavillions with the names of the Raggio marriage, María Celle for the female students, and Lorenzo Raggio for the male students, which worked separately as it was common then. The female pavillion was demolished in 1960 to unify the General Paz Avenue with Lugones Avenue. The school was donated to the City of Buenos Aires hall. Its open architectural approach is new, valuing the green spaces for expansion and recreational areas\n\nInside the school there is the techno-educational museum Lorenzo Raggio, which objective is the recovering, restoring, and the cataloging of photographic, artistic, technical material found in the institution.\n\nThere are the \"Teatro Colón\" builders plans, that is a set of more than 30 plans from 1892 sealed by the architect Vittorio Meano studio, who was one of the three architects involved in the project. These documents, that were in the school library for many years, were used by former teachers of the school, Federico Federicci and Cayetano Donato, who worked in the construction and in the maintenance of the Teatro Colón scenography.\n"}
{"id": "20990463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20990463", "title": "Fallout of the 2009 Irish government budget", "text": "Fallout of the 2009 Irish government budget\n\nThe Irish government budget for 2009 was delivered on 14 October 2008, as the first budget in the tenure of Fianna Fáil's Brian Lenihan as Minister for Finance and the first of Taoiseach Brian Cowen's tenure. It was brought forward from its usual December date due to the global financial crisis. The budget, labelled \"the toughest in many years\", included a number of controversial measures such as a proposed income levy and the withdrawal of previously promised HPV vaccines for schoolgirls. Other results of the budget included a new income levy being imposed on all workers above a specified threshold and the closure of a number of Irish Army barracks near the border with Northern Ireland.\n\nPublic outcry arose over the proposed withdrawal of medical cards and the reinstatement of university fees. A series of demonstrations ensued amongst teachers and farmers, whilst on 22 October 2008, at least 25,000 pensioners and students descended in solidarity on government buildings at Leinster House, Kildare Street, Dublin. Changes to education led to a ministerial meeting with three Church of Ireland bishops over what was viewed as a disproportionate level of cuts to be suffered by Protestant secondary schools. Separately, representatives of the Roman Catholic Church were assured by Minister for Education and Science Batt O'Keeffe that it would continue to be able to provide religious instruction to pupils in primary schools not under its patronage.\n\nRebellion within the ranks of the ruling coalition government led to a number of defections of disenchanted coalition members. County Wicklow TD Joe Behan resigned from the Fianna Fáil party in protests at the proposed medical card changes. He, alongside two other government deputies, later voted against his former colleagues in two crucial Dáil votes on medical cards and cancer vaccines. These defections reduced the Irish government's majority of twelve by one quarter.\n\nThe Irish government announced on 3 September 2008 that it was to bring forward the 2009 government budget from its usual December date to 14 October 2008. In a statement the government claimed that this was largely due to a decrease in the global economy.\n\nIrish government budget for 2009 introduced a number of new proposals which generated controversy in the weeks that followed. Ultimately a number of these proposals were either altered or abolished entirely.\n\nThe initial announcements included:\n\nLenihan expected the economy to decrease by 1.5% in 2009, as measured by GNP, with GDP contracting by 0.75%. He suggested that unemployment would increase to 7.3% but inflation would decrease to 2.5%. He suggested a budget deficit of 6.5% of GDP in 2009, (compared to the EU limit of 3%). Current spending was predicted to rise by 1.8%, with a current deficit of just over €4.7 billion and a capital deficit of €8.7 billion expected.\n\nPrior to the announcement of the government budget on 14 October 2008, each person over the age of seventy living in the Republic of Ireland was entitled to a medical card providing free medical, dental and optical treatment and medicines. The budget proposed to change this and introduced a means-tested system of benefits. The proposed income eligibility limits to be introduced for over seventies were published on the Health Service Executive's website on 15 October 2008. The site stated that the net weekly income limit for medical card eligibility would be €201.50 for a single person, €173.50 for a single person living with a family and €298 for a married couple. One day later, these eligibility levels were increased so that the income rate for a single person would be €240.30, the income rate for a married couple was increased to €480.60 per week, whilst the previously proposed rate of €173.50 for a single person living with a family was abolished.\n\nSignificant political upheaval in the Oireachtas followed the publication of the proposals. On 17 October, County Wicklow Deputy Joe Behan resigned his position citing his discomfort with the medical card changes and the proposals to increase school class sizes. He suggested that past taoisigh Éamon de Valera and Seán Lemass \"would be turning in their graves at the decisions made in the past week\". Independent Deputy Finian McGrath then threatened to withdraw his support for the government unless the plan to remove the overs 70s automatic right to a medical card was withdrawn completely. Taoiseach Brian Cowen postponed a planned trip to China, sending Minister for Education and Science Batt O'Keeffe ahead to lead the delegation.\n\nDespite a government promise to retain medical cards for 95% of over-70s, an estimated 15,000 pensioners joined in a demonstration organised by the Irish Senior Citizens Parliament on 22 October. This protest, dubbed \"the grey army\" by media reports included representatives from organisations such as the Tara Disabled Mineworkers, Pensioners' Association, Mayo Active Retirement Association and the Socialist Party as well as numerous independent protesters, marched on Dublin's Leinster House to protest the changes to their medical card scheme. Iarnród Éireann claimed that up to 1,000 pensioners had travelled on early morning trains from Counties Cork and Kerry for the protest rally, with a spokesman suggesting that the 06:30 and 07:30 trains from Cork were particularly busy. An extra train had to be commissioned from Cork at 08:20 to cope with the demand by pensioners for transport to reach Dublin in time for the demonstration. All five carriages on the 07:30 train were fully booked by the previous evening; ironically, many of the passengers were pensioners using their free travel passes also provided by the government. The pensioners also availed themselves of taxis offering free journeys to the over-70s especially for the protest. One elderly man clutched a banner heralding the invitation \"Just shoot us, it would be quicker\".\n\nLater that evening, a motion put forward by the opposition party Fine Gael seeking a reversal of the government's decision was defeated by 81–74 in a vote which took place in Dáil Éireann. Behan and McGrath both voted with the Opposition for the first time.\n\nA €10million scheme to vaccinate 26,000 12-year-olds against cervical cancer by September 2009 was announced in September 2008. Minister for Health and Children Mary Harney pulled the scheme just three months later due to a withdrawal of funding as a result of the government budget. She cited that there would not be enough money to fund her scheme even though it would only cost 0.07% of the HSE's annual €14billion budget. There was a public backlash, with a \"Harney must reinstate cervical cancer vaccine\" protest Facebook attracting 8,000 members and the \"Irish Daily Mail\" also launching a campaign to bring back the vaccines. The opposition parties were silenced when they pointed out the unusual timing of the announcement, with Fine Gael accusing Harney of attempting to hide the decision which was announced on the same day as the 2008 US presidential election. Labour Party leader Eamon Gilmore was ruled out of order by the Ceann Comhairle when he attempted to raise the matter in Dáil Éireann. Fine Gael health spokesperson James Reilly suggested that bonuses paid to HSE management would have funded the scheme's administration. County Donegal Deputy and former Fianna Fáil Minister Jim McDaid, a 20-year-old friend of Harney, abstained in a Dáil vote on 13 November in protest at the withdrawal of the vaccine, stating: “The withdrawal of a life-saving vaccine is not one that I can support” and calling it a “death sentence”. Just as in the medical card vote, the government defeated the Opposition.\n\nOn the same day as the pensioners protested, the students of Ireland also protested over a proposal to reinstate university fees. On 11 August 2008, Ireland's Minister for Education and Science, Batt O'Keeffe, had indicated that fees for university students were back on the agenda in a move which contravened prior government policy. University fees were abolished in 1995 by the Fine Gael-Labour government. With university presidents putting pressure on the government to approve this proposal, Brian Lenihan announced an increase in the annual college registration fee by €600 on budget day. The Union of Students in Ireland (USI) arranged a protest in response to claims that any increase in tuition fees would prevent many from attending college.\n\nDespite intense garda presence, the 14:00 lunchtime protest of 15,000 students caused widespread traffic disruption in Dublin city centre, with the students gathering in Parnell Square ahead of a steel drum beating march down O'Connell Street, on to College Green, up Dawson Street and across Molesworth Street. The march culminated in a rally outside the national parliament at Leinster House as the protesters were addressed by student leaders and opposition politicians. In what the USI President Shane Kelly called \"one of the largest student protests in years\", students waved banners and placards imprinted with the slogans \"education not recession\", \"free fees means more degrees\" and \"Enda Kenny (leader of the Opposition) would not approve of this\" and chanted a multitude of dialogues such as \"no cutbacks, no fees, no Fianna Fáil TDs\" and \"education is a right not a privilege\". TDs and senators waited at Leinster House to address the students upon their arrival included Labour Party education spokesperson Ruairi Quinn, Fine Gael education spokesperson Brian Hayes, Sinn Féin Senator Pearse Doherty and Independent Senator Ivana Bacik.\nThere were no arrests and no trouble was reported. Quinn stated it was possible that the students demands would be met since the government had backed down on the budgetary issues of medical cards and income levies. A spokeswoman for Minister for Education and Science Batt O'Keeffe was said to have responded to a request to meet student leaders but later cancelled this \"due to commitments arising following the budget\".\n\nSince then, a number of government ministers have encountered hostility from students whilst visiting campuses at University College Dublin and National University of Ireland, Galway. Three people were arrested for breaches of the peace following two minor scuffles as 100 students took part in a banner-bearing protest at the Clinton Institute on the Belfield campus of UCD on 20 October 2008. Brian Lenihan was to chair a function at the Institute but met with a blockade as students responded to the proposed barrier to their education by creating a physical barrier of their own against the Minister. On the evening of 12 November 2008, student campaign group Free Education for Everyone (FEE) attempted to blockade Minister of State, Conor Lenihan (a brother of Minister for Finance Brian Lenihan) from his visit to University College Dublin, in protest at the proposed re-introduction of university fees.\n\nMeanwhile, at NUI Galway on the evening of 9 December 2008, the Irish Minister for Community, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs Éamon Ó Cuív became involved in a violent student demonstration which made national headlines. Ó Cuív was on the campus for the official launch of a new €50 million engineering building in place of the Minister for Education and Science Batt O'Keeffe, who had pulled out over fears that he would be met with violent action. As he entered the Quadrangle Ó Cuív was met by a group of fifty students, one of whom the Minister later accused of manhandling his secretary. Ó Cuív stepped in and physically assailed at least one protester by the arms as himself and his assistants were blockaded against a wall. University security intervened and brought the Minister and his assistants to another door which they managed to successfully manoeuvre away from the baying crowd. A spokeswoman claimed that the crowd crushed the Minister's secretary against a wall and kicked her as one of the students set about \"waving a big stick at her\". A protester insisted that the demonstration had only become violent when Ó Cuív became physically active. The protest was organised by NUI, Galway Students' Union and FEE in the form of the NUIG societies of Labour Youth, Ógra Sinn Féin, Young Greens and Young Fine Gael. Ó Cuív was previously targeted by some of the same students who stormed and occupied his constituency office for over an hour less than a week prior to the university riot. On 2 February 2009, former Taoiseach Bertie Ahern was blockaded and jostled out of NUI Galway by a group of angry students protesting over the reintroduction of fees as he attempted to lecture the Literary and Debating Society.\n\nOn 13 November 2008, 3000 students were involved in a lunchtime anti-fees protest on O'Connell Street, Sligo. The students chanted slogans such as \"no cutbacks, no fees, no Fianna Fáil TDs\" and carried a variety of posters such as \"the Batt-man is Robin students\", whilst one waved a placard advertising his \"Ford Fiesta for sale\" followed by his mobile number.\n\nBrian Lenihan encountered further controversy over his proposal to reduce the number of substitute teachers made available to schools. More protests followed as the teachers unions took to the streets in Galway, Offaly (which included people from Kilkenny, Laois, Offaly, Meath, Westmeath, Longford and Tipperary), Cork and Donegal (which included 5,000 people from Donegal, Leitrim and Sligo) before a mass protest of at least 10,000 people through Dublin on 6 December 2008. At a cost of €2million, the Department of Education then readjusted some of the substitution teacher cuts called for by Lenihan in his budget. Under a deal agreed with the schools, each would receive substitution cover composed of a certain number of hours based upon the number of teachers absent on a particular day. Primary schools would receive substitute cover for teachers on uncertified sick leave after their first day of absence. Schools with more than one teacher absent would receive substitute cover for the second day of absence. Full cover would be provided in schools with two teachers or less.\n\nThe minority Protestant population in the Republic were particularly incensed by cuts announced by the Minister for Education to grants previously available to the 21 Protestant denomination secondary schools which breached a 40-year-old agreement reached when free secondary education was introduced in the Republic by the then Minister for Education, Donogh O'Malley. Under that agreement, Protestant secondary schools which had to provide a boarding element (and therefore charge fees) to provide education for the widespread but sparse Protestant population were treated in the same manner as \"free\" Roman Catholic schools. The Protestant community in return accepted that they could not expect the State to provide a \"free\" secondary school in every locality, and that they would have to pay a level of fees to educate their children. It was planned that Protestant churches through their administration of the grants provided by the Department would ensure that those least able to pay fees are assisted to the greatest extent possible.\n\nIn October 2008, the Minister of Education grouped these Protestant schools which provided boarding for students living at a distance into the same category as Roman Catholic schools which charged fees. This change meant that the schools must employ fewer teachers per child, and the schools would not receive government funding for non-teaching staff, as the free Roman Catholic schools do. Opposition to these cuts is being mounted by the Church of Ireland, the Methodist Church and the Presbyterian Church as well as the schools and parents.\n\nUnions warned the Irish government that its proposal to introduce an income levy of between 1% and 2% on all incomes would undermine a previously negotiated national pay agreement. In response, the government abolished the proposal and replaced it with a 3% levy on all incomes over €250,000.\n\nWithin the government budget was announced a Social Welfare Bill worth €515 million. When the Minister for Social and Family Affairs, Mary Hanafin introduced it to Dáil Éireann she was accused of \"kicking the unemployed when they are down\". An Opposition attempt to defeat the Bill due to \"savage cuts\" was again defeated, this time by 68–60. Labour Party spokesperson Róisín Shortall objected saying \"it provides for savage cuts on the most vulnerable people in our society, and it deliberately targets the poor, the unemployed, children and people with disabilities\". Fine Gael spokesperson Olwyn Enright objected because of the Minister's intention \"to bring in amendments on Committee Stage two days after the Bill's publication\", to abolish the Combat Poverty Agency. Shortall also criticised a proposal to remove child benefit from 18-year-olds, saying it would affect poorer children.\n\nOn 29 November 2008, approximately 300 farmers protested over budget cuts which affected them in Offaly. The farmers, members of the Irish Cattle and Sheep Farmers Association, demonstrated outside the Tullamore Court Hotel where Taoiseach Brian Cowen was attending a meeting with county councillors from around the country. Tánaiste and Minister for Enterprise, Trade and Employment Mary Coughlan spoke at the event at which she, Cowen and Minister for Transport Noel Dempsey, Minister for Education and Science Batt O'Keeffe and Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Brendan Smith face questions on their various roles in the budget. Over 7,000 farmers from Clare, Limerick, Tipperary, Cork, Kerry, Galway, Offaly, Roscommon and Wexford were involved in a mass demonstration in Ennis on 30 November 2008. Padraig Walshe, the President of the Irish Farmers Association (IFA), claimed budget cutbacks would affect his union's members and would lead to a €20 million loss to farmers in the region each year.\n\nIn the build-up to the budget, Minister for Defence Willie O'Dea suggested that some army barracks in Ireland would be sold. Four barracks and a military hospital located along the border with Northern Ireland were deemed suitable for closure as the British Army had withdrawn a number of years previously. The closure of Rockhill Barracks and Lifford Barracks in County Donegal was expected to impact heavily on the economy of nearby Letterkenny. Two other army barracks closed as of January 2009; Monaghan Barracks was the first to close on 22 January, with Connolly Barracks in Longford following suit on 29 January. Barracks expenditure had previously been discussed in the Dáil in 1983 and six barracks were sold in 1999 by the then Minister for Defence Michael Smith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30806773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30806773", "title": "Higher education leadership", "text": "Higher education leadership\n\nThe study of Higher Education Leadership encompasses primarily the academic disciplines of leadership and organizational theory.\n\nFounded in 1976, the Association for the Study of Higher Education (ASHE) is a national organization of scholars dedicated to higher education as a field of study. Relevant journals include the \"American Educational Research Journal\" and \"Studies in Higher Education\" and \"Research in Higher Education\".\n\nMany colleges and universities offer Ph.D. and Ed.D. programs in higher education administration and leadership, including Eastern Michigan University.\n"}
{"id": "5867634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5867634", "title": "Hong Kong Institute of Vocational Education", "text": "Hong Kong Institute of Vocational Education\n\nThe Hong Kong Institute of Vocational Education (IVE) () is one of the member institutions of the Vocational Training Council (VTC) offering vocational education to post-secondary students in Hong Kong through its nine campi located across the territory.\n\nNine disciplines include applied science; business administration; child education and community services; construction; design, printing, textiles, and clothing; hotel, service, and tourism studies; information technology, electrical, and electronic engineering; and mechanical, manufacturing, and industrial engineering.\n\nGraduates of IVE can either join the labour market society or choose to further their studies to obtain higher education qualifications.\n\nIt has a total of nine campi:\n\nThe Vocational Training Council (VTC) was established in 1982. There are 13 member institutions under the VTC Group: Institute of Professional Education And Knowledge (PEAK), School for Higher and Professional Education (SHAPE), Hong Kong Institute of Vocational Education (IVE), Hong Kong Design Institute (HKDI), School of Business and Information Systems (SBI), Hospitality Industry Training and Development Centre (HITDC), Chinese Cuisine Training Institute (CCTI), Maritime Services Training Institute (MSTI), Youth College (YC), Training & Development Centre, Yeo Chei Man Senior Secondary School (YCM) and Skills Centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1245162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1245162", "title": "Hoplology", "text": "Hoplology\n\nHoplology is a science that studies human combative behavior and performance.\n\nThe word \"hoplology\" is derived from the Greek terms \"hoplos\" (a mythical plate-armored animal) and ὅπλον \"hóplon\", a wooden shield carried by some warriors in ancient Greece. The word \"hoplite\", derived from \"hoplon\", is the term for the classical Greek warrior who carried such a shield. The field originates in the 19th century with Sir Richard Burton; although the origin of the word is often attributed to Burton, there are earlier references to it. Despite the work of Burton and a few others, it was not until the 1960s that hoplology took shape as an academic field of study under the leadership of Donn F. Draeger.\n\nHoplology was at some time defined as the science of \"arms and weapons of offense and defence, human and bestial\" (Burton, 1884), and subsequently as \"the study of the basis, patterns, relationships, and significances of combative behavior at all levels of social complexity\" (Draeger, 1982).\n\nSid Campbell, a black belt level, tenth dan-ranked in karate, defines hoplology as \"the study of the evolution and development of human combatitive behaviour and performance ... the study of how people fight, why they fight, and how different cultures manifest those behaviours.\"\n\nFounded by Major Donn F. Draeger (USMC Ret.) (1922-1982), the International Hoplology Society (\"IHS\") exists to study the evolution and development of human combative behavior. Draeger had prior research and personal experience of classical fighting systems.\n\nDraeger's student and colleague, Hunter B. Armstrong, carries on the hoplological tradition as director of IHS. He is a leading authority on combative behavior and performance. He has trained in numerous Asian and Western martial arts from a young age. He has spent a lifetime studying hoplology and related areas, including functional conditioning for combat. He currently trains military and law enforcement around the world in these areas. He works closely with military and law enforcement, and has been central to the most recent recreation of the Marine Corps Martial Arts Program (MCMAP).\n\nIn recent years, with the advent of the Modern Army Combatives (MAC) Program in the US Army and the Marine Corps Martial Arts Program (MCMAP), there has been a rapid growth in both scientific and academic research. With Matt Larsen, the father of the MAC program, as a catalyst, research departments are growing at universities across the United States. One of the first such programs was at Kansas State University; the program is currently defunct.\n\nHoplology encompasses the segment of human culture concerned with weapons, armor, combative accouterments and fighting systems, in regard to their technical characteristics and the ways in which they interact with the economic, political, social and religious institutions of human societies, and has three main research areas: technological, functional, and behavioral.\n\n\nThere are three widely accepted axioms in hoplological studies.\n\n\nA variation on the pragmatics of hoplological understanding is found in theatrical representations of combat. While hoplology is still in its infancy, it has become an accepted area of study by scholars in several related disciplines such as combative psychology, killology, anthropology, and military history.\n\nThe entrenched nature of violence in human behavior is generally well understood. The skill and potential of deadly aggression is something within human genetics which predisposes humans to violent behavior. However, the genetics that predispose humans to violence is highly influenced by environmental factors. Humans will only tap into their violent potential once the need has arisen. Human genetics have developed an on-off switch in the brain. On the on side \"…the fighting activity itself is stimulated by individual and communal thrill, enjoyment in the competitive exercise of spiritual and physical faculties, and even cruelty, blood lust, and killing ecstasy.\" (Gat 2006) On the off-side violence is deterred away by emotions through fear, revulsion at violence and bloodshed, physical fatigue, compassion, and spirituality. So if the environmental factors that cause a man to be violent are present, then he will be violent. If the environmental factors that cause a man to be violent are not present, he will abstain and deter violence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "204048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204048", "title": "Huff and puff apparatus", "text": "Huff and puff apparatus\n\nThe huff and puff apparatus is used in school biology labs to demonstrate that carbon dioxide is a product of respiration. A pupil breathes in and out of the middle tube. The glass tubing is arranged in such a way that one flask bubbles as the pupils breathes in, the other as the pupil breathes out. A suitable carbon dioxide indicator, such as limewater or bicarbonate indicator shows the increased presence of carbon dioxide in the outgoing breath.This turns the bicarbonate into milky white substance.\n\n"}
{"id": "51586318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51586318", "title": "Ina Norris", "text": "Ina Norris\n\nIna Norris is a playwright, poet, producer, off Broadway producer, mentor, and educator. Norris lives in The Bronx, New York.\n\nNorris is a community coordinator, and a public servant in social services. Norris has worked as the Director for the Performing Arts at the Learning Tree Preparatory School in the Bronx, New York. She mentors inner city youth into theater, and writes and produces to educate youth about life through theater. Norris is the founder of the NYC Young Producers Project.\n\nHer first play \"Nobody Loves a Black Little Girl When She Becomes A Woman,\" was an examination through the experiences of a Black woman. She described her first play as \n\"being a piece that is a theatrical sermon on loving yourself\".\n\nNorris is a “New York Foundation Fellow Playwright” since 2002. She is a Poetry Society winner of the Editors’ Choice Award.\n\nNorris is a native New Yorker. She graduated from Hampton University, in Virginia with a degree in Psychology.\n\nIn 1991, Norris created In A Woman Productions.\n\nShe wrote the play \"Nobody Loves a Black Little Girl When She Becomes a Woman\" that focuses on self-love and examining one's self and society through the lens of being a black woman.\n\nNorris produced and wrote the play \"A Secret Lies Inside My Sister’s Womb\" which made its debut at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture.\n\nHer third play \"Ain’t Yo Mama Crying On The Pancake Box-Car,\" for which she was awarded a Gregory Millard New York Foundation of the Arts Fellowship, debuted at the Henry Street Settlement Playhouse in New York City.\n\nShe produced \"The Turnstyle Warrior,\" which debuted at the American Theater for Actors and was also performed at the Negro Ensemble Company, and hosted by Broadway producer Danny Simmons of Rush Philanthropic. Its music was produced by Dame Grease.\n\nHer play \"Don’t Play That Song for me,\" was produced by Barbara Ann Teer of the National Black Theatre.\n\nShe produced the play \"Danny’s Waltz\" with Danny Simmons of Def Poetry Jam.\n\n"}
{"id": "45805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45805", "title": "Instructional capital", "text": "Instructional capital\n\nInstructional capital is a term used in educational administration after the 1960s, to reflect capital resulting from investment in producing learning materials.\n\nSome have objected to this phrasing, which is an elaboration of referring to training as \"human capital\", either for the same reason that phrase is objectionable, or on the grounds that it implies that the human in which the knowledge is \"invested\" is a resource to be exploited.\n\nInstructional capital can be used to guide or limit or restrict action by people (individual capital) or equipment (infrastructural capital) (if the learning materials are computer programs). It cannot generally make either individuals or infrastructure do what they are not trained or designed to do, but it can help prevent them from doing most stupid, destructive and dangerous things.\n\nWhen people begin to trust instructions, they tend to associate social capital with them, as symbolized by a brand, flag or label. This usually opens up a possibility for those with power to start cheating and/or creating bad instructions that can no longer be trusted, but the good reputation of the brand, flag or label protects them from being caught for longer than would be the case without the symbol that is associated with good reputation.\n"}
{"id": "7137579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7137579", "title": "Inter-A", "text": "Inter-A\n\nInter-A is one of the many options available to high school students in British Columbia, Canada. The program is based on leadership and is available to students in grades 8-12. As of April 2018, Inter-A is situated within Queen Elizabeth Secondary School which is part of School District 36 Surrey. The program was formerly located at Kwantlen Park Secondary School.\n\nThe Inter-A program was devised by Victor Vollrath and John Harper. The two teachers were sharing a classroom and teaching at opposite sides, when they came to the realization that this way of teaching was highly productive for students. In fact, individual students with the skills and motivation to excel maintain this level of productivity to this day. Thus, Inter-A was born.\n\nThe program was originally located at Len Shepherd Secondary School. There it remained for many years, and the school was separated into Inter-A and the original Len Shepherd students evenly.\nInter-A started off small, with thirty or less students ranging from grades 8-12.\n\nInter-A moved to Kwantlen Park Secondary School in 2002, opening the door to many more students. Victor Vollrath and John Harper retired as teachers a year later, but their roots are passed off onto the new teachers. The ideas of teamwork, self-motivation, community service and leadership and creativity that started the program still run strong today, and the program is looked favourably upon by the school district, for it has fallen into its guidelines without jeopardizing its intents.\n\nInter-A students can be found in the hallways at different times of the day, which suggests that Inter-A has more freedom than its mainstream counterpart. It offers all the electives necessary for graduation and a place at any University or College in British Columbia or in Canada. The main differences are that Physical Education is demanded of the students until graduation, Fine Arts programs are chosen by the students, and the Inter-A Component.\n\nThe students are broken off into two categories: Intermediates (grades 8-9) and Seniors (10-12). There are six blocks in the day, as opposed to the standard four to accommodate the average high school attention span. There are also six units of six (occasionally seven) weeks per school year, with a report card at the end of each one, as opposed to the two-semester system. Mathematically inclined students thrive in the at-your-own-pace math program, while those who struggle are asked how they can be helped.\n\nPhysical Education is divided between Seniors and Intermediates on alternating days. Anyone can run a PE option, grade 8-12. The teachers run options to join as well.\n\n[All marks are out of 100%, but are then scaled down to 75%. The remaining 25% goes to the Inter-A Component, which is based on three criteria. The three criteria are: Community Service (10%), Choice (10%), and CPP (5%).]\n\nFine Arts occurs over the course of three blocks, one day a week. Like P.E, anyone can run an option for it with the options the teachers are running as well.\n\n[All marks are out of 100%, but are then scaled down to 75%. The remaining 25% goes to the Inter-A Component, which is based on three criteria. The three criteria are: Community Service (10%), Choice (10%), and CPP (5%).]\n\nStudents earn credit by participating in community service. Ten hours of work is required every unit. A log must be kept by the students and signed by an appropriate overseer. Community Service can be completed within the school; 10% (the full service amount) may be gained that way. This can be as simple as tutoring a fellow peer, or as complex as running the school's recycling program. Many students go above and beyond, completing up to 20 hours of Community Service a unit. There are no \"roll-over\" hours\n\nThe other 5% can be gained from completing service around the community. Since most of the students are from the Greater Vancouver Area, there are plenty of service opportunities available to them.\n\nCareer and Personal Planning is similar to CSL in the fact that students set goals for themselves. However, these goals are checked bi-weekly and must be signed by the pupil's legal guardian for the 5% to go into the student's marks. A portfolio of the student's work is also gathered in this class as evidence of their academic progress.\n\n10% of an Inter-A student's marks consists of choice. Students in grade 7,8, and 9 can elect to run a choice seminar, which, if done well, can bring up a students choice mark by 4%. A choice seminar is a student-led class, based on their knowledge of a particular subject, whether it be soccer, or the history of the ukulele. The student will then be required to teach their peers about that particular subject, through visuals, demonstrations, group activities, or however else they see fit. Attending and handing in an assignment based on the leader's knowledge is worth 1% of an Inter-A students choice mark. \nThe choice program allows for students to be exposed to many different new subjects which are not covered by the BC curriculum. Students are given the opportunity to gain a broad view of the world around them, and to gain public speaking, leadership, and teaching skills. \n\nFrench is taught in Inter-A. However, if a student is taking a language class outside of Inter-A for extra credit, they can use that as their language credit and have the designated Language block as a spare. A record must be kept of the student's involvement, and the language must be one that makes the student eligible for graduation.\n\nFrench in Inter-A used to be a work-at-your-own-pace program. However, after the departures of Vollrath and Harper it has gone back to regular classes. Grades 8-12 each have a different teacher taking them through different stages of French. A student can skip ahead if they show vast knowledge of the subject matter or finish the stages early.\n\nFor students in grades eight through ten, Math is self paced. At the end of every chapter they must get their \"Math Tracker\" signed to signify they understand the concepts, then take the test. If they pass, they may go on to the next chapter. This age bracket sits in mixed age, mixed ability groups, called \"Inter-A groups\". The Inter-A group was made to teach group skills, leadership, and problem-solving. An Inter-A group should include even members of each gender, students of different ages/grades when possible, students of different skill levels and students who often do not work with each other.\n\nGrades eleven and twelve students work with a teacher in a traditional setting, as opposed to the self-taught younger grades, as the subject matter is more difficult to grasp. However, once a week the younger students attend a Math Tutorial led by a teacher or a more experienced student. Calculus 12 is not offered in Inter-A at this time, but all three math streams (Apprenticeship and Workplace, Pre-Calculus, and Foundations of Math) are offered until the grade twelve level. \n\nStudents wishing to attend a post secondary art school are recommended to attend a specialized high school whose focus is more art-based. That is not to say that Inter-A children cannot participate in other school events; sports, theater and all clubs are open to members of Inter-A and Queen Elizabeth students.\n\nInter-A had an Ultimate team called \"The Kwantlen Park Timberwolves\". In the 2007/2008 season, Inter-A ultimate started the regular season with a 6-0 record for both the senior and junior teams. The Junior team is currently ranked 1st throughout British Columbia and the Senior team is ranked second in their division. \n\nA Reach for the Top team has been started. The team placed well in their first year of competition. However, this program has currently been suspended.\n\nAn Inter-A play is often run annually.\"The Grounding of Donnie Greener\", was fabulously written by Roger Blenman, and was a tremendous success.\n\nInter-A has several very high-ranking Destination Imagination teams. The teams often place second or better in Provincial Tournaments, and several have gone on to score highly at the World Finals in Knoxville, Tennessee.\n\nMath Club is available after school some days for students who struggle, need service, or just love math and need somewhere to do it.\n\nInter-A has an Executive Team, much like its own Student Council. They make important monetary and educational decisions about Inter-A and its future, as well as plan future field trips. It is led by students as an independent body, and elections are held every two units. All Inter-A students are invited to vote. \n\nA \"Herd\" is when the Inter-A students come together for an information session in one of the three Inter-A classrooms. \"Apple Awards\" are given at the end-of-the-year barbecue. They are given out during an outdoor herd to each student in a light-hearted manner. The awards are usually inside jokes suggested by friends or playful pokes at students given by the teachers. A red, BC grown apple is given to all students.\n\nExcursions in Inter-A can be divided into three categories:\n\nThe small field trip in Inter-A is a typical field trip experience. Inter-A students have been to the Vancouver Aquarium, Chinatown, Geneskool, Bard on the Beach, and Science World. Day trips are used as a way to give students a real-world application for work done in a classroom. \n\nA field trip that lasts overnight. A great example is the annual \"Inter-A Retreat\" at the beginning of every year, which is three days, and two nights. The Retreat is in September of every year, and usually occurs at Camp Sunrise on the Sunshine Coast. For the 2015-2016 school year, it took place at Rockridge Canyon in Princeton, British Columbia. The Retreat is an opportunity for students and teachers to get to know each other before the year starts. This is especially helpful for new grade seven/eight students to integrate into the program with ease. \n\nInter-A is unique, as every second year the program offers a trip overseas for two to three weeks. The trip is expensive, but the response is excellent. Trips to Italy, France, Australia, Greece, England and other countries have been a tremendous success in integrating different cultures and ideals into the minds of the youth. Through Kwantlen Park, exchange programs with other students from Quebec were also available.\n\nBesides producing a class of graduates that flourish both in academics and as human beings, the Inter-A program has consistently been regarded as one of the most notable institutes of secondary education in British Columbia. Through the Inter-A program, students learn self-motivation and direction, skills necessary for post-secondary education. With the skills developed in Inter-A many of the graduates excel in university level education with high exam scores gaining them acceptance to some of the most prestigious universities and other post-secondary institutions in Canada. Both founders of the program, Vic Vollrath and John Harper, have received national recognition awards for their excellence in teaching. Inter-A has placed their parent schools (Len Shepherd and Kwantlen Park Secondary) amongst the top public schools in British Columbia within recent years based on Grade 12 provincial exam marks.\n\n"}
{"id": "49100118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49100118", "title": "Judith Wilyman PhD controversy", "text": "Judith Wilyman PhD controversy\n\nA controversy arose from 2012 to 2016 over the supervision and final acceptance by the University of Wollongong (UOW) of a PhD thesis titled \"A critical analysis of the Australian government’s rationale for its vaccination policy\" by Roslyn Judith (Judy) Wilyman, one of Australia's \"most vocal anti-vaccination activists\". The thesis came under heavy criticism from multiple directions, including medical professionals, due to claims within the thesis, including advancing a conspiracy theory whereby the World Health Organization (WHO) and the pharmaceutical industry supposedly conspire to promote vaccinations in the absence of evidence of safety and efficacy. The awarding of the thesis created questions about the standards being applied and whether or not the thesis supervisors and examiners had sufficient knowledge to oversee the research, and led to calls for the university to review the doctorate. A number of individuals and medical organisations – including academics and researchers from other parts of the University of Wollongong – spoke out against the findings of the thesis, emphasising the need for vaccinations in order to prevent serious disease; and the University of Wollongong was criticised for a perceived lack of transparency in their doctoral process and an alleged failure to uphold standards of scholarship.\n\nThe thesis was conducted from within the university's School of Humanities and Social Inquiry, under the primary supervision of cultural studies professor Brian Martin and the co-supervision of sociologist Andrew Whelan. Although describing himself as \"hardly a neutral observer\", Martin argued that the questions raised about the work equate to biased attacks on Wilyman and himself. The university responded to the criticism by asserting that the research was conducted and examined under high standards, and spoke in defence of academic freedom. The University of Wollongong also agreed to conduct a review into their overall doctoral process, but the scope did not include specific PhD recipients, and therefore did not encompass Wilyman's work.\n\nJudith Wilyman was awarded a Masters by University of Wollongong (UOW) in 2007 in the Faculty of Law, Humanities and the Arts; her thesis topic was the Australian government's pertussis vaccine policy. Her thesis alleges a connection between vaccinations and autism, a claim that was already convincingly refuted, and false claims that vaccines do not control whooping cough.\n\nIn 2007 Wilyman entered a PhD a program in the same faculty at UOW in 2007, with her dissertation focused also on Australian vaccination policy; in 2008 the supervision was transferred to Peter Dingle at Murdoch University, and in 2011 supervision was transferred back to UOW under the supervision of Brian Martin. The thesis was accepted by UOW in 2016. Although details of the examiners have not been released, in May 2016 \"The Australian\" reported that one of two original examiners did not recommend that a PhD be granted. It was passed after a third academic evaluated the thesis and recommended changes.\n\nBy 2009, Wilyman was a member of the Australian Vaccination-Skeptics Network (AVSN), an anti-vaccination group, and coordinates two anti-vaccination groups; Vaccination Decisions and Vaccination Choice. \n\nIn 2011 Wilyman opposed the HPV vaccination saying evidence about the vaccine's benefits were not clear, and it was reported that she claimed that vaccinations are linked to autism.\n\nIn 2012 she invited controversy after the death of a child from whooping cough, questioning \"whether the family had been paid to use their daughter's death to promote vaccine\", causing the family of the deceased to request that Wilyman not use their daughter's death in furthering her agenda. \n\nIn 2013, the Australian Medical Association (AMA) criticised the university's decision to fund Wilyman to attend a conference in the US. Wilyman was provided with $3,000 by the university to present a paper opposing human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccinations. The conference was organised by predatory open access publishing company OMICS Publishing Group, which has also been criticised for running predatory meetings with no effective standards for speaker selection. In response to the criticism of Wilyman's trip, the university's Dean of Research, Tim Marchant, stated that the university upheld the principles of academic freedom and, accordingly, it was important to support Wilyman and the presentation of differing viewpoints, even when they were controversial. Martin, who was supervising Wilyman's research, also supported the decision, arguing that the conference was a valuable experience for Wilyman.\n\nQuestions of misconduct concerning Wilyman's Masters thesis were raised in 2014, and were investigated and cleared in 2015. \n\n\"The Australian\" reported that in 2014, \"Wilyman [was] shielded from critics\" by the university when their media office refused a request to promote The Australian Society for Immunology conference in Wollongong, saying if it \"will be discussing vaccinations, we should steer well clear of doing any publicity. We don't want to inflame any opponents of ... Judy Wilyman\". According to the university, they were attempting to limit \"the vicious and repeated attacks being directed ... towards a then student\"\n\nBiological scientist Helen Petousis Harris writes that the thesis abstract contains conclusion, and quotes Wilyman's aim of her thesis as an attempt to \"assess the rigour of the claims supporting the efficacy, safety and necessity for the use of an expanding number of vaccines in the Australian Government’s National Immunisation Program\". Brull reports that according to supervisor Brian Martin, Wilyman's thesis makes four major points:\n\n\nOther, more specific, claims include that the World Health Organization (WHO) formed a secret committee, which in turn orchestrated \"hysteria relating to a global swine flu pandemic in 2009\" and that the organisation is \"perceived to be out of touch with global communities and … controlled by the interests of corporations and the World Bank\".\n\nAt one stage during Wilyman's candidature, Australian immunisation expert and advisor to the WHO Peter McIntyre offered to advise her on her research, but withdrew his offer as she was \"not willing to entertain\" alternative points of view that contradicted her beliefs. Wilyman's PhD thesis claims that \"diseases for which vaccines are recommended have not been demonstrated to be a serious risk to the majority of children\".\n\nMedical academics and the Australian Medical Association (AMA) have questioned whether Martin had sufficient knowledge to supervise the thesis, with McIntyre observing \"No doubt the examiners selected have credentials within that area of study but they are likely to lack necessary credentials in health sciences that would enable them to be aware of the full picture here\". Similarly, an editorial in \"The Australian\" was harshly critical of both Wilyman and the University. It dismissed the central idea of the thesis as \"rather like a sociologist who insists that jet aircraft remain aloft only because of a conspiracy between aeronautical engineers and greedy airlines\" and noted the problem of academic overreach, with the faculty presuming to judge the quality of work well outside its area of expertise. It characterised the University of Wollongong as putting itself on the wrong side in a \"battle of life and death\", and questioned whether the granting of the PhD \"could 'reasonably be expected' to lead to lower levels of vaccination?\"\n\n\"New Matilda\" journalist Michael Brull reports that Martin responded to the question of expertise by stating that Wilyman's thesis was about policy, and accordingly, \"if anyone can lay claim to having special knowledge about policy, it is those who have researched policy itself\". Expertise in immunology and epidemiology, according to Martin, can give \"no special insight into vaccination policy\". Brull advises against stripping Wilyman of her PhD as it may change her from being a \"marginal quack\" to a \"persecuted martyr\", and argues that the claims in the thesis identified by Martin are \"issues of both politics and science\", not only questions of policy, and therefore were more properly the domain of the hard sciences. Brull observes that the PhD avoided rigorous and informed peer review by being conducted through the University of Wollongong's social sciences faculty, thus avoiding serious scientific scrutiny with the examiners potentially being \"out of their depth in dealing with questions of vaccination science\".\n\nUniversity of Auckland biological scientist Helen Petousis Harris, who has a PhD in Vaccinology, was highly critical of the thesis and writes:\n\nSaxon Smith, president of the NSW branch of the AMA, characterised it as \"a thesis that’s talking about the science of medicine without any support of its argument from credible scientific literature\", adding \"the evidence is clear about the safety of vaccines.\"\n\nAlison Campbell, an associate dean and biological sciences lecturer at the University of Waikato, produced a blistering analysis criticising the use of out-of-date references as well as pointing out numerous scientific errors in Wilyman’s master’s work, including calling the unexplained exclusion of two of four types of vaccine components \"an alarming omission for a paper on immunisation\".\n\n\"The Medical Journal of Australia\" criticised the university in awarding a PhD to a student \"demonstrating a glaring lack of understanding of immunology and vaccine science,\" suggesting that unless legislation keeps the anti-vaccination movement in check \"we are ushering in a dangerous time.\"\n\nJohn Dwyer AO, emeritus professor of medicine at the University of New South Wales, wrote: \"[Ms Wilyman] has endorsed a conspiracy theory where all sorts of organisations with claimed vested interests are putting pressure on WHO to hoodwink the world into believing that vaccines provide more benefits than they cause harm. Many well-established concepts in science are being challenged in this thesis with no data to support the conclusions provides [sic].\" He pointed out that numerous leading scientists and at least five major scientific organisations are criticising the university for rewarding poor scholarship and asking that the thesis be re-examined by experts in immunology and epidemiology, which is what the thesis addresses.\n\nIn a Feb 2016 media-release the Royal Australasian College of Physicians (RACP) directly questioned suggestions of bias from Wilyman. In challenging central arguments of her thesis, the RACP highlighted that the TGA is the regulatory body responsive to the monitoring and investigation of any adverse events and any significant concerns around vaccination safety.\n\nAmerican surgical oncologist David Gorski refers to the thesis as an academic travesty, pseudoscientific and containing \"easily refutable downright incorrect information.\" He also \"has to wonder how much Martin buys into antivaccine pseudoscience\", and as an example refers to Martin's prior defence of discredited Andrew Wakefield. Gorski goes on to say that \"Martin has a history of being sympathetic to medical cranks. He views crank views as \"medical dissent\"\". In response Martin accused Gorski of being part of an \"orchestrated\" attack on Wilyman and the University of Wollongong led by Australian pro-science group Stop the Australian Vaccination Network (SAVN). Gorski later wrote in ScienceBlogs that this accusation was based on a false argument that criticism of the scientific validity of Wilyman's thesis was an attack on the freedom to present dissenting views in science.\n\nResponding to the criticism of the thesis from several medical researchers and public health advocates who called for a review by the university's academic board, the university reiterated that research is conducted under strict standards, and that they do not \"restrict the subjects into which research may be undertaken just because they involve public controversy or because individuals or groups oppose the topic or the findings\". Although very critical of the thesis, this view is partially shared by journalist Michael Brull, who argued that having \"unorthodox or distasteful\" opinions should not be grounds for the denial of a PhD. He goes on to support the freedom of such intellectual inquiry.\n\nIn January 2016, the Vice Chancellor of the university, Paul Wellings, announced a review into the doctoral process. However, the review did not examine specific doctorates, and therefore did not look at the awarding of Wilyman's PhD. Upon completion, the university's report found that their higher degree research policies and procedures were consistent with those at other comparable Australian universities. Immunology academic John Dwyer noted that even though the university's review made some \"excellent recommendations for improving the postgraduate research students' experience\", it \"failed to address the vital question of matching the scientific question to be examined to the expertise of the supervisor and the ultimate reviewers\".\n\nAccording to the university, all theses are examined by two people with \"unchallengeable knowledge in the field of study\", but the university does not reveal the identities of the examiners or their respective academic fields. In March 2016, the university's compliance officer turned down a request to identify the examiners, arguing that \"the examiners would be offended, humiliated or intimidated by the conduct of the media and the public once their names are released\", concerned for \"their physical, psychological or emotional wellbeing\" and noting that current privacy laws forbid the release of the information.\n\nJohn Dwyer AO responded that the names of examiners would not have been required if the university had agreed to re-examine the thesis, adding \"as we know they are social scientists not clinical scientists\". In a rebuttal the Australian Skeptics considers UOW's statement of a possible \"detrimental effect on the [examiner's] physical ... wellbeing\" to be verging on a libellous depiction, as it \"suggest[s] that the community critical of the PhD may physically attack the examiners\".\n\nIn response to UOW and Wilyman's thesis an online petition called \"Stop the University of Wollongong's Spread of Disease and Death Via Anti-Vaccination PhD\" was established in January 2016 and attracted over 2,100 signatures within the first few weeks. The petition reportedly states that UOW's acceptance of the thesis \"demonstrates an anti-scientific culture at the University of Wollongong that is inimical to scholarship\".\n\nAt the same time over sixty of the university's health and medical academics and researchers jointly signed a statement that \"the evidence is clear\" in support of vaccination urging all parents to ensure their children are fully immunised, Public Health Association of Australia president Heather Yeatman said the 65 academics wanted to clarify the scientific position and point out they are firmly behind vaccination and that “Universities need to publish papers based on sound evidence and the balance of evidence in relation to any matter”.\n\nA week later, representatives from 12 medical research and clinical societies also signed a supporting statement on behalf of 5,000 scientists and clinicians in the fields of microbiology, virology, immunology and infectious diseases concerned about vaccine-preventable diseases in the community. Eminent research biologist Sir Gustav Nossal was one of signatories, and Jonathan Iredale who drafted the statement said \"It’s not about academic freedom; it’s an academic issue. If the thesis comes from poor scholarship then that is something the university must deal with\".\n\nIn the Elsevier journal \"Vaccine\" three months later, UoW's executive dean of the Faculty of Science, Medicine and Health, researcher and toxicologist Alison Jones, co-authored a paper in-part referring to Wilyman, and in discussing the balance of good public health versus unchecked academic freedom stated: \n\nMartin responded to Durrheim and Jones, arguing that they had misrepresented parts of Wilyman's work.\n\nMcIntyre, a senior doctor at the Westmead Children's Hospital, said that Wollongong University \"must bear the major responsibility for manifestly inadequate supervision\", saying: \"It is clear from even cursory examination that Wilyman’s thesis, although raising some legitimate questions about gaps in both the process and transparency of immunisation policy development, is based on a highly selective and poorly informed review of the literature, driven by the imperative to support pre-determined conclusions.\"\n\nWithin two months of University of Wollongong publishing the thesis it was reported that Wilyman was claiming her \"PhD provides evidence that all vaccines are not safe and effective and that the combined schedule of vaccines is doing more harm than good in the population through the increase in chronic illness\".\n\nIn June 2016 \"The Australian\" reported that Wilyman was an audience member at a vaccination forum run by the Telethon Kids Research Institute in Perth. Anti-vaccination activists at the event accused the forum members of lying, and heckled, interjected and continuously interrupted the speakers, forcing the event to close early.\n\nWilyman wrote an open letter to Paul Wellings, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Wollongong asking the university to correct alleged inaccuracies in the Wikipedia article about her research, asserting that criticism of her thesis in the media and by individual scientists was not \"a proper scientific debate (but) suppression of the literature using political strategies\". She also criticised Wollongong academic, Alison Jones, for using the university's website to publicise \"personal opinions of vaccination\". The university responded by saying that they do not endorse or otherwise the views of students or academic staff, and do not curate Wikipedia.\n\nWilyman, Martin and the Faculty were awarded the satirical Australian Skeptics 2016 Bent Spoon Award for “a PhD thesis riddled with errors, misstatements, poor and unsupported ‘evidence’ and conspiratorial thinking”.\n\nWilyman was previously investigated and cleared by the university after allegations relating to her 2007 Masters thesis. After investigating the allegations and clearing Wilyman in 2015, the university declined to publicly release details, but under a Freedom of Information request a small number of documents were released after the Information & Privacy Commission of NSW intervened. In March 2016 there was a further release of hundreds of heavily redacted pages relating to the investigation, after the initial response was appealed. In what text was left unredacted, it showed that the complaint was referred to a high-level conduct committee, which dismissed the complaint after a two-month investigation and took no further action. The documents revealed that Judy Raper, the university's Deputy Vice Chancellor of Research, wrote to Wilyman after the investigation saying that it should not have occurred, that she was \"sincerely sorry for this to have happened\", and that \"academic misconduct processes are not a forum for academic debate\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7709047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7709047", "title": "Kneller Hall", "text": "Kneller Hall\n\nKneller Hall is a mansion in Whitton, in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames. It houses the Royal Military School of Music, training musicians for the British Army, which acquired the building in the mid-19th century. It is also home to the school's Museum of Army Music. The Army is scheduled to vacate the site in 2020.\n\nThe first house on the site was built by Edmund Cooke between 1635 and 1646 and in 1664 was the fourth largest house in Twickenham.\n\nIn 1709 the property was purchased by Sir Godfrey Kneller, court painter to British monarchs from Charles II to George I. He had the original house demolished and replaced by a new building, reputedly designed by Sir Christopher Wren. This second house was known as Whitton Hall, after the village, but was renamed by Kneller's widow, in memory of her husband. In 1757, the house was sold to Sir Samuel Prime, a prominent London lawyer, who, with his son of the same name, extended it significantly and landscaped the grounds. After Samuel Prime junior died in 1813, the hall was sold to Charles Calvert, Whig MP for Southwark from 1812–1832. He further expanded the house (to designs by Philip Hardwick), adding drawing rooms at the east and west ends of the building. Calvert died of cholera in 1832 and his widow inhabited until death about 1845. The house was then acquired by the government as a teacher training college but it needed substantial reconstruction.\n\nAround 1850 much of the Wren bulk of the house was dilapidated and so was demolished. The Hardwick additions formed the wings of the new house, the one still standing today, designed by George Mair. This third building on the site is stone-corniced, casemented and constructed as to its ground floor central range and otherwise built of red bricks, all in the neo-Jacobethan style suitable to 19th and 20th century mansions of its scale. It consists of 17 bays, the central of which is the widest and of stained glass and the two adjacent of which are arrow-slit windows. The bays are split into five recessed or projecting ranges. Two square, pavilion towers form the near left and right bays, each tower crowned by a stone and leaded ogee-shaped cupola. Its gatepiers and house are separately listed by Historic England in the initial, grade II category.\n\nFrom 1850 to 1856 Kneller Hall served as a teacher training college under principal Frederick Temple and vice-principal Francis Turner Palgrave, known for his poetry anthology \"Palgrave's Golden Treasury\". In exchange for a two-year college education almost entirely subsidised by the state – one of the first forms of state-sponsored social mobility – graduates of the college were supposed to teach pauper and delinquent boys in specially built district schools. Though Kneller Hall itself was generously funded by the state, the larger scheme to build district schools never came to fruition owing to political and religious conflict. The college closed when it was unable to attract any more students, who were now expected to teach in miserable conditions in Britain's workhouses. \n\nOn 3 March 1857 the building was taken over by the War Office as the base for a school for army bandsmen; it then evolved into the Royal Military School of Music. During the Second World War the site was briefly the headquarters of the Commander-in-Chief, Home Forces from late 1939 until the headquarters moved out to St Paul's School in July 1940.\n\nOn 18 January 2016 defence minister Mark Lancaster announced that Kneller Hall is one of 12 MOD sites proposed to be \"released\" (meaning sold) as part of the department’s drive for greater efficiency. In November 2016 the Ministry of Defence announced that the site would close in 2020.\n"}
{"id": "28486111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28486111", "title": "Learning analytics", "text": "Learning analytics\n\nLearning analytics is the measurement, collection, analysis and reporting of data about learners and their contexts, for purposes of understanding and optimizing learning and the environments in which it occurs. A related field is educational data mining.\n\nThe definition and aims of learning analytics are contested. One earlier definition discussed by the community suggested that\n\"Learning analytics is the use of intelligent data, learner-produced data, and analysis models to discover information and social connections for predicting and advising people's learning.\" But this definition has been criticised by George Siemens and Mike Sharkey.\n\nA more holistic view than a mere definition is provided by the framework of learning analytics by Greller and Drachsler (2012). It uses a general morphological analysis (GMA) to divide the domain into six \"critical dimensions\".\n\nA systematic overview on learning analytics and its key concepts is provided by Chatti et al. (2012) and Chatti et al. (2014) through a reference model for learning analytics based on four dimensions, namely data, environments, context (what?), stakeholders (who?), objectives (why?), and methods (how?).\n\nIt has been pointed out that there is a broad awareness of analytics across educational institutions for various stakeholders, but that the way learning analytics is defined and implemented may vary, including:\nIn that briefing paper, Powell and MacNeill go on to point out that some motivations and implementations of analytics may come into conflict with others, for example highlighting potential conflict between analytics for individual learners and organisational stakeholders.\n\nGašević, Dawson, and Siemens argue that computational aspects of learning analytics need to be linked with the existing educational research if the field of learning analytics is to deliver to its promise to understand and optimize learning.\n\nDifferentiating the fields of educational data mining (EDM) and learning analytics (LA) has been a concern of several researchers. George Siemens takes the position that educational data mining encompasses both learning analytics and academic analytics, the former of which is aimed at governments, funding agencies, and administrators instead of learners and faculty. Baepler and Murdoch define academic analytics as an area that \"...combines select institutional data, statistical analysis, and predictive modeling to create intelligence upon which learners, instructors, or administrators can change academic behavior\". They go on to attempt to disambiguate educational data mining from academic analytics based on whether the process is hypothesis driven or not, though Brooks questions whether this distinction exists in the literature. Brooks instead proposes that a better distinction between the EDM and LA communities is in the roots of where each community originated, with authorship at the EDM community being dominated by researchers coming from intelligent tutoring paradigms, and learning anaytics researchers being more focused on enterprise learning systems (e.g. learning content management systems).\n\nRegardless of the differences between the LA and EDM communities, the two areas have significant overlap both in the objectives of investigators as well as in the methods and techniques that are used in the investigation. In the MS program offering in learning analytics at Teachers College, Columbia University, students are taught both EDM and LA methods.\n\nIn \"The State of Learning Analytics in 2012: A Review and Future Challenges\" Rebecca Ferguson tracks the progress of analytics for learning as a development through:\n\nIn a discussion of the history of analytics, Cooper highlights a number of communities from which learning analytics draws techniques, including:\n\nThe first graduate program focused specifically on learning analytics was created by Ryan S. Baker and launched in the Fall 2015 semester at Teachers College, Columbia University. The program description states that\nMethods for learning analytics include:\n\nAnalytics have been used for:\n\nMuch of the software that is currently used for learning analytics duplicates functionality of web analytics software, but applies it to learner interactions with content. Social network analysis tools are commonly used to map social connections and discussions. Some examples of learning analytics software tools include:\n\nThe ethics of data collection, analytics, reporting and accountability has been raised as a potential concern for learning analytics, with concerns raised regarding:\n\nAs Kay, Kom and Oppenheim point out, the range of data is wide, potentially derived from:\n\nThus the legal and ethical situation is challenging and different from country to country, raising implications for:\n\nIn some prominent cases like the inBloom disaster, even full functional systems have been shut down due to lack of trust in the data collection by governments, stakeholders and civil rights groups. Since then, the learning analytics community has extensively studied legal conditions in a series of experts workshops on \"Ethics & Privacy 4 Learning Analytics\" that constitute the use of trusted learning analytics. Drachsler & Greller released a 8-point checklist named DELICATE that is based on the intensive studies in this area to demystify the ethics and privacy discussions around learning analytics.\n\nIt shows ways to design and provide privacy conform learning analytics that can benefit all stakeholders. The full DELICATE checklist is publicly available.\n\nChatti, Muslim and Schroeder note that the aim of open learning analytics (OLA) is to improve learning effectiveness in lifelong learning environments. The authors refer to OLA as an ongoing analytics process that encompasses diversity at all four dimensions of the learning analytics reference model.\n\n\nFor general audience introductions, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "1602575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1602575", "title": "Ludmilla Chiriaeff", "text": "Ludmilla Chiriaeff\n\nLudmilla Chiriaeff, (January 10, 1924 – September 22, 1996) was a Soviet-born Canadian ballet dancer, choreographer, teacher, and company director.\n\nLudmilla Alexandrovna Otsup was born in Riga, Latvia, to a Russian father Alexandr Otsup (1882-1948), writer known under the pen name Sergej Gorny, and his wife Ekaterina Otsup (née Abramova; 1886-1962) of Polish descent. \n\nShe considered herself Russian by birth, as her parents were in Latvia only as refugees from conflict in Russia. She was raised and trained in Berlin, where she studied with Alexandra Nikolaeva, a former ballerina of the Bolshoi Ballet, with Nikolaeva's daughter and son-in-law Xenia Krüger and Edouard Borovansky, and, later, with Eugenie Eduardowa. \n\nHer career was interrupted by the conflict of World War II, during which she was confined to a Nazi labor camp on the unfounded suspicion of being Jewish. She escaped during a bombing raid and, with the assistance of the Red Cross, made her way to Switzerland, where she was able to resume her ballet training and revive her professional career in Lausanne and Geneva. \n\nWhile resident in the \"Suisse romande\", she married Russian artist Alexis Shiriaev, whose surname was spelled Chiriaeff, in the French style.\n\nAfter immigrating with her family to Canada in 1952, Chiriaeff settled in Montréal, Québec, opened a ballet school, and soon began to create dances for Société Radio-Canada, the French-language public television service. Because of the success of her television appearances, she founded Les Ballets Chiriaeff, a small troupe that grew in size and popularity and eventually evolved into Les Grands Ballets Canadiens, in 1957. \n\nUnder her guidance, shared jointly with choreographer Fernand Nault, this company achieved international prominence in 1966–67, during Canada's Expo 67 World Festival and subsequent tours of the United States and western Europe. Chiriaeff retired as co-artistic director of the company in 1974 and devoted herself to leadership of the company's associated schools.\n\nChiriaeff created more than three hundred ballets for television and stage. In 1952, she choreographed \"Cendrillon\" (\"Cinderella\"), a three-act ballet set to music by Mozart, for the nascent French-language television service of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. The success of this work led to her being offered a half-hour slot every month to create ballets for \"L'Heure du Concert\" (\"The Concert Hour\") and other programs of music and dance broadcast bilingually across Canada. Among her subsequent works for television were \"Jeu de Cartes\" (\"Card Game,\" 1954), set to music by Igor Stravinsky, \"Une Nuit sur le Mont Chauve\" (\"Night on Bald Mountain\"), to music by Modest Mussorgsky, and \"Carnaval des Animaux\" (\"Carnival of Animals,\" 1957), to music by Camille Saint-Saëns.\n\nAfter the formation of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens in 1957, Chiriaeff created many works for her young company, including \"Mémoires de Camille\" (1961), to music by Giuseppe Verdi, \"Quatrième Concert Royal\" (1961), to music by François Couperin, and \"Fète Hongroise,\" to music by Johannes Brahms. She also restaged some of her earlier works, including \"Cendrillon\" (1962) and \"Suite Canadienne\" (1961), set to French-Canadian folk tunes arranged by Michel Perrault. Created for a gala television performance during Queen Elizabeth II's 1955 tour of Canada. \"Suite Canadienne\" was one of Chiriaeff's several ballets celebrating Québécois culture. It became, for a time, a sort of signature work for Les Grands Ballets Canadiens and proved to be one of her most popular creations.\n\nIn response to her contractual commitment to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Chiriaeff founded Les Ballets Chiriaeff and an associated school in 1952. When the company was renamed Les Grands Ballets Canadiens in 1957, the school expanded, offering instruction to both amateurs and aspiring professionals. In 1966, at the request of the Ministère des Affaires Culturelles du Québec, Madame Chiriaeff established the first fully professional ballet school in the province, the Académie des Grands Ballets Canadiens, which in 1976 became the École Supérieure de Danse des Grands Ballets Canadiens. In 1980, the school obtained an independent charter and became the École Supérieure de Danse du Québec. It continued to operate under that name until 2010, when it was designated the École Supérieure de Ballet du Québec. It is the only institution in North America to provide a professional ballet program taught entirely in French.\n\nTraining dancers and dance instructors was central to Chiriaeff's vision. In addition to founding her own schools, she introduced intensive ballet programs into all levels of the provincial educational system, including Montréal's Pierre Laporte Secondary School (1975), the CÉGEP du Vieux Montréal (College of General and Vocational Education in Old Montreal, 1979), and the École Laurier for elementary school children (1998). As a result of her educational vision and mission, she has been acknowledged as \"la mère de la danse au Québec\" (\"the mother of dance in Quebec\").\n\nIn 1969 Chiriaeff was made an Officer of the Order of Canada and was promoted to Companion in 1984. In 1978 she was proclaimed a Grande Montréalaise by the City of Montreal, and in 1985 she was made a Grand Officier de l'Ordre National du Québec. In 1993, she received Canada's highest honour in the performing arts, the Governor General's Performing Arts Award, the Denise Pelletier Award for the Performing Arts, and honorary doctorates from McGill University, the Université de Montréal, and the Université du Québec.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10124096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10124096", "title": "Luke Morgan", "text": "Luke Morgan\n\nLuke Morgan is a fictional character from the British Channel 4 soap opera \"Hollyoaks\", played by Gary Lucy. He was introduced by the show's creator Phil Redmond as part of the Morgan family, and made his first on-screen appearance on 7 June 1999. The character was involved in a male rape storyline, which was branded \"groundbreaking\" and met with controversy. Lucy opted to leave the role in 2001 after two years, although he returned for two episodes in August 2002. The character's reintroduction was announced on 21 May 2017 and he returned on 24 July. Lucy took a break from the series on 26 September 2018 to appear in a play.\n\nThe Mirror described him as \"sullen face but loveable\". Luke has been described as a \"heart-throb\" and a \"hunk\" by the \"Daily Record\".\n\nLuke was bullied by Mark Gibbs and his friends for a while due to a football team rivalry. When Luke finally stood up to him Mark was incensed and he and his friends beat Luke up badly. When Luke tried to fight back Mark lost control and raped Luke to belittle and devastate him. \"Hollyoaks\" creator Phil Redmond defended criticism and said the storyline \"aimed to tackle one of the last great social taboos responsibly\". In the lead up to the attack producers worked closely with rape-related support groups to help make the storyline as realistic as possible. On the storyline Lucy said \"When they first told me about the storyline I was dubious as to whether or not I should take it. Firstly because I was so young and secondly it hadn't been touched before so no-one knew how the public and press would take it. After thinking about it and doing research behind it I thought it was definitely a subject worth approaching. So we did it and reaped the rewards. I feel very lucky.\" On why she wanted to tackle the subject series producer Jo Hallows said \"The message is about banishing taboos - telling people it's OK to talk and there are people who can help. If this episode helps one person it will have been a worthwhile exercise.\" Keith Greenaway, coordinator of Central Birmingham Victim Support welcomed the decision saying \"we can show victims it is not something to be ashamed of and it wasn't their fault\".\n\nFollowing the end of the storyline, Luke began to struggle with depression, which led to the character attempting suicide.\n\nOn 21 May 2017, it was reported by Ed Gleave of \"The Daily Star\" that Lucy had agreed to reprise the role after an absence of fifteen years and had signed an eighteen-month contract. The longer contract allowed producers to create \"some really meaty storylines\" for the character, which would place him at \"the centre of the action.\" Lucy began filming in May 2017. A show spokesperson confirmed the news to \"Digital Spy\" but refused to comment any further. Sarah James (\"Digital Spy\") praised the news and said she was looking forward to his return.\nSarah Jayne Dunn was announced to be returning to the serial as Mandy Richardson on 2 June 2017, with speculation that the two returns could be connected. Further details surrounding Luke's reintroduction were also announced, with his return scenes scheduled for July 2017. Lucy expressed his joy at reprising the role, commenting that it \"feels like being home\". He added that he is enjoying his storylines and filming with Ashley Taylor Dawson, who appeared alongside Morgan in his original stint as Darren Osborne. On the character, Lucy said, \"There are a lot of things he's struggling with. All is not as it seems. He's holding it together but as time goes on, he will start to struggle.\"\n\nExecutive producer Bryan Kirkwood suggested some storylines to Lucy, which persuaded him to accept the return. The actor also cited Kirkwood's enthusiasm and the ability to film with Dunn, Dawson and Nick Pickard (who portrays Tony Hutchinson) as other reasons for his return.\n\nIn July 2017, Lucy told Daniel Kilkelly of entertainment website \"Digital Spy\" that he would be performing in \"The Full Monty\" from September 2018. He stated that he was unaware how show bosses would fit his break into the character's storyline. It was announced on 15 March 2018 that Lucy would take a nine-month break from \"Hollyoaks\" to star in the tour. Luke will leave at the conclusion of his storyline in mid-2018. Luke departs in September 2018 after Mandy and Darren's affair is exposed. Kirkwood confirmed that Lucy would appear \"intermittently\" following his exit. He told \"Digital Spy\" that Luke would appear again as part of Mandy and Darren's affair storyline as well as part of his son Oliver Morgan's (Aedan Duckworth) storylines. Kirkwood could not confirm whether Lucy would return permanently.\n\nLuke arrives with his family: parents Andy Morgan (Ross Davidson) and Sue Morgan (Eve White); brother Adam Morgan (David Brown); and sisters Beth Morgan (Elizabeth O'Grady, Kate Baines) and Zara Morgan (Kelly Greenwood). He begins a friendship with Darren Osborne (Ashley Taylor Dawson) and a relationship with Mandy Richardson (Sarah Jayne Dunn). During a game of football, Luke tackles Mark Gibbs (Colin Parry) which ends Mark's chances of becoming a professional footballer and leads to Mark resenting Luke and bullying him. When Luke stands up to Mark, he becomes annoyed and beats him up, before raping him. Luke remains silent about the rape, afraid of the consequences and his relationship with Mandy deteriorates as a result. They separate and she begins a relationship with Darren, aware it will upset Luke. When he tries to tell Mandy about the rape, she ignores him and tries to punish him for their separation.\nLuke becomes depressed and attempts suicide so Adam encourages him to talk to someone and Luke tells his family that he was raped. Sue, Adam and Mandy are supportive, whereas Andy struggles to believe his son. Darren is spiteful towards Luke and believes Luke is gay and lying about the rape. Annoyed at Darren's behaviour, Mandy ends their relationship and supports Luke. Sue begins to struggle with the pressure of the rape and begins taking medication. After Mark intimidates him, Luke decides to inform the police he was raped and Mark, along with his two friends, are charged with assault and rape. Believing the family will be disowned by the community, Andy asks Luke to drop the charges and later, Mark harasses Luke and tells him that he won't be believed. At the trial, Mark and his friends are found guilty and Mark is sentenced to eight years imprisonment, whereas the friends are sentenced to three years imprisonment.\n\nLuke and Andy's relationship becomes estranged and he sells the story of his rape to the press to humiliate Andy. Eventually, they reunite but Luke struggles with Andy and Sue's inability to discuss the rape so decides to move out. Luke later expresses an interest in reconciling with Mandy but she decides not to as he is still overcoming the rape and secretly dates Ben Davies (Marcus Patric), Luke's close friend. Luke discovers their affair and briefly disowns them. Hoping to move on, Luke begins a relationship with Laura Burns (Lesley Crawford), who is mentally unstable. He begins to believe Laura is using him and is pleased when they separate, although Laura begins to secretly obsess over Mandy.\n\nAt a party, Scott Anderson (Daniel Hyde) teases Luke over the rape and with his friends, he chases Luke and pretends to rape him. Luke is traumatised by the attack and breaks down with Adam, admitting that he will not be able to move past the rape. He later tells Adam that he plans on leaving the village to escape his past. Luke is offered a job in Canada as a school football coach, which he accepts. As he prepares to leave, Beth admits that Scott raped her at the party, devastating Luke as he blames himself. After deciding to stay in the village to support Beth, she insists he leave to rebuild his life, which he eventually decides to do. Luke leaves and after he settles in Canada, Beth informs their family of her rape. Luke later returns to the village for his parents' second wedding. Despite being in a relationship with Adam, Mandy has a fling with Luke after realising they have feelings for each other. Luke offers Mandy the chance to return to Canada with him, but she declines and he returns alone.\n\nFifteen years later, Darren spots Luke in a bar near Hollyoaks village and they have lunch together; when Darren disappears momentarily, Luke steals money from his wallet and absconds. Darren tracks Luke down and discovers he is unemployed so offers him a job at his taxi firm, \"Daz Cabs\". A drunk Luke later returns home to his partner, who is revealed to be Mandy; she warns him to stop drinking. When Darren discovers Luke drinking alcohol whilst working, he sacks him; they discuss Luke's situation and Luke denies being an alcoholic. Darren invites Luke to an AA meeting but he does not arrive as planned. Luke leaves Mandy's daughter, Ella Richardson (Erin Palmer), by herself when he goes to buy alcohol and the neighbours call social services. Tony and Mandy return to the house and find social services waiting for them. They take Ella in to care and when Luke returns drunk again Mandy leaves him.\n\nFive weeks later, Luke returns to the village to see Mandy and he is not drunk. He tries to win her around but she rejects him so he walks away. However he meets Tony's wife Diane for the first time and she reveals Tony kissed Mandy so Luke heads over to Tony's restaurant and has a fight with him. When Darren is released from prison and he discovers Luke is homeless and living out of his car. After Luke emotionally reveals to Darren that he has a drink problem, Darren moves him in with the Osbornes. After setting into life with the Osbornes, Luke gets a trial at Hollyoaks High as a PE teacher. However, on his first day he is haunted by flashbacks of his torment at the hands of Mark Gibbs years before. Just as Luke is about to drink for the first time in over a month, an explosion rips through the school, leaving Darren and Luke trapped. As Darren and Luke climb through an air vent, Luke reveals to Darren that he has a secret son and wife.\n\nThe following month, Mandy decides to give Luke a second chance and they go on a date in Chester. Luke flees after seeing his rapist, Mark. He then becomes obsessed with Mark, stalking him on social media and trying to arrange a meeting with him to buy his car using Nancy's picture. Luke is furious that Mark has a seemingly charmed life, with a wife and two children. He becomes a personal trainer and takes Mark's wife, Jenna, (Laura Hopper) as a client. She tells Luke that Mark served eight years for a trumped up GBH charge. Fuming, Luke finds out where they live and trashes their house.\n\nAfter seeing Luke at the police station with Nancy, Mark confronts him at the Osborne house. Mark continues to behave as cockily as he did 17 years ago and shows no remorse for what happened. Mark goes to meet Jenna but finds Luke has followed him. Mark's demeanour has changed, saying his prison sentence was hell because of what he had done. Luke breaks down and reveals the agony of his life because of the rape, and asks Mark just to acknowledge what he did and apologise. Mark begs Luke not to tell Jenna and that he is not to blame for what has gone wrong in his life. Just then, Jenna overhears and asks what he meant, and Luke reveals what Mark had done to him. Jenna believes him due to Mark's silence and storms off, disgusted. Mark tells Luke it was one night and should have been left in the past. Luke responds that it is all his fault.\n\nMandy and Luke reconcile after she can see how hard he's trying to redeem himself, and in the process Mandy proposes. Luke agrees, even though he is already married to Scarlett Morgan (Susie Amy). Luke seeks help from lawyer Sami Maalik (Rishi Nair) to get a divorce from Scarlett, but they are unable to track her down. Luke damages Mandy's dress in a bid to delay the wedding, but she find another dress. On the day of the wedding, Scarlett arrives in the village and confronts Luke, demanding that he give her money. He offers her £500 and a promise to find more money so Scarlett leaves. Luke and Mandy marry, but Luke's son, Oliver Morgan (Aedan Duckworth), crashes the wedding reception and reveals that Luke is his father and that he is still married to Scarlett. Luke bonds with Oliver over their shared interest in football. Later, Luke calls Mandy to apologise, unaware that she is sleeping with Darren. Luke's alcoholism continues to get worse, leading to the deterioration of his relationship with Mandy and to causing him to ignore Oliver's attempts to talk to him about the grooming he is experiencing at the hands of Buster Smith (Nathan Sussex). Luke also almost kills Simone Loveday (Jacqueline Boatswain) while drink driving and she encourages him to seek help after sharing her own experiences with alcohol however, he is later arrested after being caught drink driving again. The charges were dropped but he is arrested soon afterwards for assaulting Scott Drinkwell (Ross Adams) after Mercedes McQueen (Jennifer Metcalfe) calls the police off-screen. The 2018 Winter Trailer shows Mandy visiting Luke in prison, but whether this return is permanent or just a one-time thing is unknown.\n\nFor his portrayal of Luke, Lucy was awarded \"Best Newcomer\" at the 2000 British Soap Awards. This award is the first award won by the soap at the British Soap Awards. The trial was nominated for \"Most Dramatic Storyline\" at the 2001 \"Inside Soap\" Awards. A BBC columnist included Luke's rape storyline in their article about controversial issues portrayed through soap opera. Daily Record praised the storyline saying Lucy's was \"great at portraying Luke's harrowing ordeal\". The story even attracted the attention of \"Coronation Street\" actress Julie Goodyear who opined that it \"was portrayed with the right amount of sensitivity\".\n\nA writer from MSN described his rape storyline as \"groundbreaking\" material. But the storyline received criticism from \"Watchdog\" and some churches. A reporter from Virgin Media branded it \"devastating and frightening\" and placed it on their \"soap's scariest storylines\" list. Gareth McLean of the \"Radio Times\" listed the male rape plot amongst \"the top five soap scandals - ever\" and added that \"with fewer than one in ten male rapes reported, the storyline was praised for raising awareness, but also criticised for doing so in a soap aimed at teenagers\". In addition a BBC reporter noted that Lucy's portrayal garnered praise from a performance which \"showed him retreating from the situation and eventually attempting suicide\" and adjusting to life after the trial. Elizabeth Joyce of the \"Shropshire Star\" said that Luke was a \"genuinely memorable\" and \"decent character\", who still holds \"a place in the heart of many a late-twentysomething\".\n\nAn \"Inside Soap\" columnist included Luke's rape in a feature, highlighting memorable moments in 2000. They noted the story accumulated criticism from viewers who found the scenes \"too upsetting\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5468399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5468399", "title": "Manager (association football)", "text": "Manager (association football)\n\nIn association football, a manager is an occupation of head coach in the United Kingdom responsible for running a football club or a national team. Outside the British Isles and across most of Europe, a title of head coach or coach is predominant.\n\nThe manager of a professional club is responsible to the club chairman.\n\nThe manager's responsibilities in a professional football club usually include (but are not limited to) the following:\n\nSome of the above responsibilities are shared with the director of football or sporting director, and are at times delegated to an assistant manager or club coach.\n\nAdditionally, depending on the club, some minor responsibilities include:\nThese responsibilities are more common among managers of small clubs.\n\nThe wishes of a national team manager may sometimes conflict with those of a club manager over selection of club players for the national squad; the club manager may not wish the player to miss domestic fixtures. For this reason, in many cases, national football team managers are selected from current club team managers and also in many cases, they select the players of their clubs.\n\nThe title of manager is almost exclusively used in British football. In the majority of countries where professional football is played, the person responsible for the direction of a team is awarded the position of coach or \"trainer\". For instance, despite the general equivalence in responsibilities, Bobby Robson was referred to as the manager of England, while Joachim Löw was described as the head coach of Germany (Germany also has a team manager role that is subordinate to the head coach and that is filled by Oliver Bierhoff). For 1994-96 including Euro 96, however, The Football Association struggled to identify an alternative candidate to Terry Venables, so their discomfort with his soiled reputation for probity was articulated in their appointment of him as England 'coach' rather than under the traditional title of 'manager'.\n\nThe responsibilities of a European football manager or head coach tend to be divided up in North American professional sports, where the teams usually have a separate general manager and head coach (known as a field manager in baseball), although occasionally a person may fill both these roles. While the first team coach in football is usually an assistant to the manager who actually holds the real power, the American-style general manager and head coach have clearly distinct areas of responsibilities. For example, a typical European football manager would have the final say on in-game decisions (including player line-ups), and off-the-field and roster management decisions (including contract negotiations). In American sports, these duties would be handled separately by the head coach and general manager, respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "42920523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42920523", "title": "Matilda Sharpe", "text": "Matilda Sharpe\n\nMatilda Sharpe (4 April 1830 – 30 April 1916) was a British teacher, educational reformer and painter. In Highgate, north London, she founded Channing House School (after Robert Spears' idea) and a Unitarian Chapel in Despard Road. She was the daughter of Samuel Sharpe.\n\nSharpe was a talented painter and several of her portraits are in the collection of the National Portrait Gallery, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "926838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=926838", "title": "Mikontalo", "text": "Mikontalo\n\nMikontalo is a large student housing complex in Hervanta, Tampere, Finland. Its exact address is Insinöörinkatu 60, 33720 Tampere, Finland.\n\nWith affordable rents, easy availability and location near the Tampere University of Technology, it is a popular dwelling for first year students and exchange students. \n\nMikontalo was built during the period 1978–1980\n. It consists of 4 blocks with 12 floors where 767 dwellings are situated. Mikontalo offers for its inhabitants saunas (two per building), a free gym, public lounge with a TV-set, Nintendo Wii, Soundsystem, board games, coffee machine and microwave; laundry room (5 washing and 2 drying machines), cable TV, and connection to the Internet.\n\nAccording to word of mouth, Mikontalo is the biggest dwelling building in Finland, and even within the Nordic Countries. This is however hard to confirm.\n\nThe building went through major renovations from Summer 2007 until Summer 2009. During the renovation juliet balconies were added to some of the apartments. Also the façade panels were painted with bluish grey color, replacing red, orange and yellow colors.\n\nIn early December 2007, the D block of Mikontalo, while undergoing the reconstruction, was the scene of the Mikontalolights project.\n\nThe object of Mikontalolights project was to create the world's physically largest colored graphics platform by using the windows of Mikontalo's D block as light pixels. The platform was used for playing Tetris and other games and present demos created by the students of Tampere University of Technology. The project climaxed on December 4 when the new lights of the building were lit. The goal was to gain global visibility for Tampere University of Technology and the rich student culture of city of Tampere.\n\nMikontalolights was a part of the 42nd jubilee year of the Student Union of Tampere University of Technology. Mikontalolights was fully carried out by students who were willing to give their work contribution besides their studies. TOAS and the building contractor of Mikontalo Rakennustoimisto Palmberg Oy made it possible to accomplish Mikontalolights by providing Mikontalo as a platform for the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "26249177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26249177", "title": "National Center for Preservation Technology and Training", "text": "National Center for Preservation Technology and Training\n\nThe National Center for Preservation Technology and Training is a research, technology, and training center of the U.S. National Park Service located on the campus of Northwestern State University. Since its founding in 1994, NCPTT has awarded over $7 million in grants for research that fulfills its mission of advancing the use of science and technology in the field of historic preservation. NCPTT undertakes research at its in-house laboratories at Lee H. Nelson Hall in Natchitoches, Louisiana. Working in the fields of archeology, architecture, landscape architecture and materials conservation, the National Center accomplishes its mission through training, education, research, technology transfer and partnerships.\n\nNCPTT has its beginnings in \"Technologies for Prehistoric and Historic Preservation,\" the Office of Technology Assessment that U.S. Congress published in September 1986. This report was requested by the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs to assess preservation technologies and their use by federal agencies in the implementation of laws relating to prehistoric and historic preservation. Among the major findings of this report was the need for:\nThe report cited the critical need to establish a federally funded institution as a mechanism to coordinate research, disseminate information and provide training about new technologies in preservation.\n\nNCPTT labs include a unique environmental chamber that allows researchers to test the effects of pollutants on cultural materials.\n\nTo facilitate preservation technology research, NCPTT maintains a broad partnership base that includes National Park Service sites; other federal agencies; state and tribal historic preservation offices; universities; private corporations; and local, state, national and international non-profit organizations.\n\nNCPTT’s website and publications enable the National Center to deliver the latest news about preservation technologies to a variety of audiences. Additionally, its content on social media services is available through Creative Commons licenses.\n\nThe Center's PTT Grants program provides direct and competitive grants to promote research and training opportunities in preservation technology.\n\nNCPTT's website provides instantly downloadable research from the Center's hundreds of PTT Grants products.\n\nThe National Center develops and conducts seminars and workshops nationwide on topics like cemetery monument conservation. NCPTT promotes excellence in preservation by promoting external historic preservation training and education opportunities for professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "23913915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23913915", "title": "Nikki Lynam School of Performing Arts", "text": "Nikki Lynam School of Performing Arts\n\nNLSPA (Nikki Lynam School of Performing Arts) is a street dance school based in Rotherham, South Yorkshire, England. NLSPA was set up by Nikki Lynam in 2001. This studio is well known in the United Kingdom through their \"Britain's Got Talent\" 2010 semi-finalist group ICE, and the Future Dance Group. The NLSPA provides classes in singing, drama, gymnastics, and street dances such as breakdance and lyrical hip hop.\n"}
{"id": "43606676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43606676", "title": "Nylon rope trick", "text": "Nylon rope trick\n\nThe nylon rope trick is a scientific demonstration that illustrates some of the fundamental chemical principles of step-growth polymerization and provides students and other observers with a hands-on demonstration of the preparation of a synthetic polymer.\n\nThe nylon rope trick typically makes use of a water solution of an aliphatic diamine with a solution of an aliphatic diacid chloride in a solvent that does not dissolve in water, yielding a synthetic polyamide of the nylon-type. Nylon 610 is commonly used, in which hexamethylene diamine is dissolved in water to a concentration of about 0.40 moles / deciliter. A solution of sebacoyl chloride in cyclohexane (0.15 moles / deciliter concentration) is then layered on top of the water solution, the reaction typically being conducted in a beaker. The solution is not agitated; instead the nylon 610 polymer forms as a flexible film at the interface of the water and cyclohexane layers, in an example of an interfacial polymerization. The experimentalist grasps the polymer film, withdrawing it from the reaction vessel, forming a filament or rope, and collecting it on a rotating rod above the reaction vessel. New polymer forms at the interface as fresh surfaces of the cyclohexane layer and the water layer form. In this way, the demonstration yields a continuous rope that is collected on the rotating rod. Nylon 66 can also be produced at laboratory scale in this way.\n\nRepresentative procedures and equipment lists for conducting the nylon rope trick demonstration are available in literature procedures.\n\nThe nylon rope trick was developed as a scientific demonstration by American chemist Stephanie Kwolek who invented Kevlar aramid.\n"}
{"id": "20078136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20078136", "title": "Online lecture", "text": "Online lecture\n\nAn online lecture is an educational lecture designed to be posted online. Lectures are recorded to video, audio or both, then uploaded and made viewable on a designated site. Students may go to a certain designated site to view the lecture online at a time which is convenient for them.\n\nTraditionally, vocal education is possible only when the teacher and the pupil are together in the same room, where the teacher passes on the information in the same vicinity of the student. Online lectures are now possible with the advent of video communications. The development of the online lecture makes it possible so that the teacher and student no longer have to be in the same vicinity to teach and learn, respectively.\n\nThere are certain advantages to online lecturing. Students may access online lectures posted on their designated websites anywhere in the world, at any time they wish, as long as they have an internet connection. They can also be repeated for the sake of note taking. Studies have shown that students improve significantly in courses with online archived lectures. Studies have also noted that the overall experience of a course has improved with the addition of online lectures. There are disadvantages to online lecturing, namely the lack of face-to-face interaction, and the fact that students cannot easily contact their instructors unless a communications link is created. Additionally, attendance for in-class lectures may drop due to archived lectures. This can be avoided with in class quizzes or by postponing posting lectures until after the in-class session. \n\n"}
{"id": "5769933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5769933", "title": "Pacific Trade and Development Conference", "text": "Pacific Trade and Development Conference\n\nThe Pacific Trade and Development Conference (PAFTAD) is an informal private academic conference series that, since its origins in 1968, has developed into a driving force behind the development of thought on Pacific trade and development issues and important economic policy questions facing the region.\n\nThe ideas and discussions generated by PAFTAD have helped drive and shape other Pacific economic cooperation organisations, including Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (PECC).\n\nEach PAFTAD conference is organised around a particular theme, and research papers addressing the topic are presented and discussed. The results are published in the PAFTAD volume series.\n\nSince its inception in 1968 the PAFTAD conference series has established itself as one of the leading sources of ideas and discussion on issues affecting economic development in the Asia Pacific. A private organisation with no formal government ties, PAFTAD has been, and continues to be a driving force for ideas about policy innovation and development at both the national and regional levels.\n\nThe essence of PAFTAD’s contribution is both intellectual and practical: it generates ideas about regional economic exchange and integration, provides empirical evidence to support or reject policy proposals and facilitates ongoing debate among policy influential experts. The ideas and evidence generated by PAFTAD have entered the public policy dialogue of most Asia Pacific economies, due in no small part to the intellectual and policy leadership shown by PAFTAD participants at both a national and regional level.\n\nTheme: “China’s Role in the World Economy”\n\nHost: China Centre for Economic Research (CCER), Peking University \n\nThe PAFTAD Fellowship for Young Scholars is available to graduate students and faculty members aged 35 years and below, and is considered one of the most distinguished fellowships available to young scholars in the region. The PAFTAD International Steering Committee selects 8 aspiring researchers as PAFTAD Fellows to present papers on themes related to Asia Pacific trade and economic development for each conference. Selection is based on the quality of a written submission as judged by the Selection Panel from PAFTAD’s distinguished International Steering Committee.\n\nThis year the Fellowships will take young scholars to Beijing where they will present their papers the day prior to PAFTAD's 34th Conference on December 6 and participate in the PAFTAD Conference itself on 7–9 December.\n\nWendy Dobson (University of Toronto), Chair <br>\nNarongchai Akrasanee (Saranee Holdings), Member <br>\nWook Chae (KIER), Member <br>\nEdward Chen (University of Hong Kong), Member <br>\nPang Eng Fong (Singapore Management University), Member <br>\nRoss Garnaut (The Australian National University), Member <br>\nDavid Hong (TIER), Member <br>\nAkira Kohsaka (Osaka University), Member <br>\nJustin Lin (World Bank), Member <br>\nMahani Zainal Abidin (ISIS), Member <br>\nJuan J. Palacios (University of Guadalajara), Member <br>\nPeter Petri (Brandeis International Business School), Member <br>\nRobert Scollay (University of Auckland), Member <br>\nVo Tri Thanh (CIEM), Member <br>\nShukiro Urata (Waseda University), Member <br>\nJosef Yap (PID), Member <br>\nSir Frank Holmes (Victoria University of Wellington), Honorary Member <br>\nKiyoshi Kojima (Hitotsubashi University), Honorary Member <br>\nHugh Patrick (Columbia University), Honorary Member <br>\nIppei Yamazawa (Hitotsubaski University), Honorary Member <br>\nChia Siow Yue (SIIA), Honorary Member <br>\nPeter Drysdale (The Australian National University), Secretariat\n\nThe PAFTAD endowment was established in 1999 to support the activities of the PAFTAD. \n\n• Asia Pacific Trade and Development\n\n• Direct Foreign Investment in Asia and the Pacific\n\n• Obstacles to Trade in the Pacific Area\n\n• Structural Adjustments in Asian-Pacific Trade\n\n• Technology Transfer in Pacific Economic Development\n\n• Cooperation and Development in the Asia Pacific Region: Relations between Large and Small Countries\n\n• Trade and Employment in Asia and the Pacific\n\n• Mineral and Energy Resources in the Pacific Area\n\n• Regional energy security\n\n• ASEAN in a Changing Pacific and World Economy\n\n• Trade and Growth of the Advanced Developing Countries in the Pacific Basin\n\n• Renewable Resources in the Pacific\n\n• Energy and Structural Change in the Asia Pacific Region\n\n• Pacific Growth and Financial Interdependence\n\n• Industrial Policies for Pacific Economic Growth\n\n• Pacific Trade in Services\n\n• Technological Challenge in the Asia-Pacific Economy\n\n• The Pacific Economy: Growth and External Stability\n\n• Economic Reform and Internationalization: China and the Pacific Region\n\n• Pacific Dynamism and the International Economic System Corporate Links and Foreign Direct Investment in Asia and the Pacific\n\n• Environment and Development in the Pacific: Problems and Policy Options\n\n• Business, Markets and Government in the Asia Pacific: Competition Policy, Convergence and Pluralism\n\n• Asia Pacific Financial Deregulation\n\n• APEC: Challenges and Tasks for the 21st Century\n\n• Globalization and the Asia Pacific Economy\n\n• The New Economy in East Asia and the Pacific\n\n• Competition Policy in the New Millennium\n\n• Reshaping the Asia Pacific Economic Order\n\n• Does Trade Deliver what it Promises?\n\n• Multinational Corporations and the Rise of a Network Economy in the Pacific Rim\n\n• International and Regional Institutions and Asia Pacific Development\n\n• The Politics and the Economics of Integration in Asia and the Pacific\n\nNumerous PAFTAD alumni have occupied senior political and policy positions in regional governments and organisations, with Indonesian Minister of Trade Mari Pangestu, a long-time PAFTAD participant, being a recent example. The extent of PAFTAD’s contribution to regional development was apparent in the formation of APEC.\n\nTwo of PAFTAD’s earliest leaders, Professor Sir John Crawford and Dr Saburo Okita, were instrumental in leading their countries to establish the tripartite Pacific Economic Cooperation Committee (PECC). In turn PECC, which shares many\nmembers in common with PAFTAD, developed recognition among nations of the region of the need for a framework to support and enhance the rapid growth in regional trade, investment and technology transfer: APEC.\n"}
{"id": "41815414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41815414", "title": "Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan", "text": "Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan\n\nRashtriya Uchchattar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) (Hindi for \"National Higher Education Mission\") is a holistic scheme of development for higher education in India initiated in 2013 by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India. The centrally sponsored scheme aims at providing strategic funding to higher educational institutions throughout the country. Funding is provided by the central ministry through the state governments and union territories (UT), which in coordination with the central Project Appraisal Board will monitor the academic, administrative and financial advancements taken under the scheme. A total of 316 state public universities and 13,024 colleges will be covered under it.\n\nInnovative educational policies in India have been a huge success. Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) launched in 2001 for elementary education and Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) launched in 2009 for secondary education produced great results in the educational developments. For higher education University Grants Commission (UGC) has a provision for routine innovation and development fundings. UGC funds are quite adequate for centrally funded universities and colleges, which are recognised under sections 12B and 2(f) of UGC Act. However, as of 31 March 2012 statistics, the higher education sector in India consisted of 574 universities and 35,539 colleges, out of which 214 universities are not covered under 12B of UGC Act, and only 6,787 colleges are registered under 12B\nand 2(f). Thus a larger number of higher institutes run by state governments, which are limited in their own management, are not provided with sufficient financial support to enhance their facilities for educational reforms. Therefore, a separate scheme for state/UT-managed universities and colleges was proposed by the National Development Council (NDC) as part of the 12th Five-Year Plan in 2012. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approved it in October 2013.\n\nRUSA aims to provide equal development to all higher institutions and rectify weaknesses in the higher education system. Its target achievement is to raise the gross enrolment ratio to 32% by the end of XII Plan in 2017. The major objectives are to:\n\nRUSA is provided by the central Ministry of Human Resource Development directly to the state and UT governments. From the state/UT budget the funds are disbursed to individual institutions. The funding to states would be made on the basis of critical appraisal of state plans for higher education plans. The amount of funding from central government will be 60% of the total grants, and 40% will be contributed by the state/UT as matching share. For northeastern states, Sikkim, Jammu and Kashmir, and Uttarakhand the matching share is waived to 10%. During the 12th Five-Year Plan period between 2012–2017, RUSA is allotted a financial outlay of INR 228.55 billion, of which INR 162.27 billion will be contributed by the central government. During the first phase, 80 new universities would be created by converting autonomous colleges/colleges in a cluster to state universities. 100 new colleges would be set up and 54 existing colleges would be converted into model degree colleges. Infrastructure grants would be given to 150 universities and 3,500 colleges to upgrade and fill critical gaps in infrastructure especially libraries, laboratories, etc. Further additional 5,000 faculty positions would be supported. Then the scheme will extend into the 13th Five-Year Plan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1975881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1975881", "title": "RateMyTeachers", "text": "RateMyTeachers\n\nRateMyTeachers.com ('RMT') is a review site used to rate K-12 and college teachers and schools. Participants are asked to rate their teachers on a scale of 1 to 5 in the categories of \"easiness\", \"helpfulness\", \"knowledge\", and \"clarity\", with the latter two factoring into an \"overall quality\" score. Individuals can also write brief comments on their experiences with the teachers. As of April 2010, over eleven million teachers had been rated on the website.\n\nRMT was launched in 2001 by Mister Message, LLC and later sold to former RateMyProfessors.com owner Patrick Nagle. RateMyTeachers.com currently services websites in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nRateMyTeachers.com was governed by a public community of volunteers who were granted the power to add, remove and delete teacher listings and teacher ratings. The public community was replaced in 2017 by a private moderation community. The private moderation community was tasked to manually re-review every rating and teacher added to RMT since 2001. The private moderation community reviews over 100,000 ratings a day.\n\nRateMyTeachers.com is controversial in certain circles and many have questioned its approach. The site is open to the general public with no requirement to reveal their first or last name when commenting. This has led some to worry that those surfing the Internet can leave libellous comments without any repercussions to their own reputation. In 2007, the Queensland College of Teachers called for the shutdown of the page \"until it can be established that it provides a credible service\". In 2003, the New York State United Teachers (NYSUT) sought a court injunction to shut down the site, though the request was denied on free speech grounds. In April 2007 the British education secretary Alan Johnson said that the online harassment of teachers performed by sites such as RateMyTeachers.com needs to stop. This caused articles on RateMyTeachers by national and international press.\n\n"}
{"id": "7838980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7838980", "title": "Re-Engineering Assessment Practices", "text": "Re-Engineering Assessment Practices\n\nThe Re-Engineering Assessment Practices in Scottish Higher Education project, or REAP, is one of six projects funded under the Scottish Funding Council's E-learning Transformation Programme. The project is piloting improved models of assessment across three universities - the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow Caledonian University and the University of Glasgow.\n\nIn the REAP project, assessment is defined broadly to include tutor, peer and self-assessment processes. The goal is to develop new models of assessment geared to fostering lifelong learning skills. The vision is that, over the course of an undergraduate degree, students should develop their own capacity to self-assess, reflect on, and take an active role in managing their own learning. New technologies can help support the development of learner self-regulation (See Self-regulated learning).\n\nAssessment is a key driver of student learning (See Student-centred learning); it determines both how and what students study. Yet, research shows that prevailing modes of assessment often promote high teacher workloads rather than enhanced student learning. There is a need to rethink institutional assessment systems - away from a model where teachers transmit marks, to one where students develop, over the course of a degree, their own ability to self-assess and self-correct.\n\nThe educational basis for the REAP project is recent research on assessment. Black and William (1998) carried out a meta-analysis of research on formative assessment, over a 10-year period, across the schools and HE sectors. They showed that where assessments focused on generating feedback and encouraging its use the learning gains were 'among the largest ever reported for educational interventions'. Other researchers have shown how formative assessment and feedback might support the development of learner self-regulation (Nicol and Macfarlane-Dick 2006). Still others have shown how assessment might be used to engage students in active learning over the course of their studies (Gibbs and Simpson, 2004) or might simultaneously enhance both immediate and lifelong learning needs (Boud, 2000). Despite these recent publications, this research has had little impact on HE practices. The current project will address this gap by drawing on current thinking and on the potential available through new technologies (Nicol & Milligan, 2006).\n\nThe REAP project involves the re-engineering of assessment practices in large enrolment first year classes across a range of departments/disciplines. A portfolio of technologies will be piloted to support assessment re-engineering including virtual learning environments (VLEs), e-Portfolios (See electronic portfolio), personal response systems, computer simulations and new communication tools.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52391799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52391799", "title": "Recurse Center", "text": "Recurse Center\n\nThe Recurse Center (formerly known as Hacker School; also called RC) is an independent educational institution, combining a retreat for computer programmers with a recruiting agency. The retreat is an intentional community, a self-directed academic environment for programmers of all levels to improve their skills in, without charge. There is no curriculum and no particular programming languages or paradigms are institutionally favored; instead, participants work on open-source projects of their own choice, alone or collaboratively, as they see best. The Center has been an active advocate for women in programming.\n\nThe Center was initially founded in the Summer of 2010 as Hackruiter, an engineering recruiting company, using seed money from Y Combinator. The idea quickly arose of trying to transform recruiting for start-ups by running a retreat as part of the process, with the goal of helping clients become better programmers.\n\nIt officially opened its doors as “Hacker School” in New York in July, 2011, obliquely anticipating the coding bootcamp movement that arose in the mid-2010s. Hacker School came to wide public attention in mid-2012, when it partnered with the e-commerce company Etsy to offer “Hacker Grants” in support of female developers. \nA number of companies soon joined Etsy in funding these grants, and in 2014 the grant program expanded to offer support to other groups not well represented in American technology industries.\n\nIn 2015 Hacker School was renamed the Recurse Center.\n\nThe programming retreat is free of charge for admitted applicants to attend. The organization itself is for-profit and supports itself through recruitment, by placing some participants in programming jobs. In 2014 the retreat reached the \"tipping point\" of self-sufficiency purely from recruiting income.\n\nInternal costs to the company have been reported at \"nearly $12,000\" for each participant.\n\nThe Center does not publish statistics on its admission rate, although there is no published rule against reapplication.\n\nThere is no curriculum; each participant imposes their own structure for self-directed learning on their stay at the Recurse Center, with guidance as requested. Despite its original name ”Hacker School“, the Recurse Center is not a school — its model of self-directed learning was inspired by the Unschooling philosophy of John Holt (1923–1985). \nNor does it have any connection to the popular notion of a hacker as someone who breaks into computer systems — rather, “hacker” here was intended to suggest a programmer who is technically resourceful but also supportive of other programmers.\n\nIn 2015 the organization changed its name to the Recurse Center to avoid confusion over these matters.\n\nSince its founding, the faculty have experimented continually with day-to-day experience in the retreat. Experiments have included:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Center did not initially publish a code of conduct, but eventually formalized its expectations of participant behavior in June 2017.\n\nInstead, to promote a study environment in which people feel comfortable asking each other for guidance and criticism, the Center has long used a set of “lightweight social rules” to guide interactions between participants. In contrast to traditional “codes of conduct”, many of which have a legalistic tone, the social rules are intended to shepherd community behavior unobtrusively, “to remove as many distractions as possible so everyone can focus on programming.”\n\nThese social rules are one of the retreat's most influential features and have been adopted by a number of other programming communities.\n\nThere is a large community of alumni that have remained active past the end of their ”batch“, interacting with each other and with new participants in person or via virtual tools.\n\nThe level of participants' skill and experience is diverse, in common with retreats in other creative fields and unlike many engineering organizations. Participants range from long-experienced software developers on sabbatical, to people who have been coding for only a few months, to retirees, to college students on vacation. Some participants hold doctoral degrees; others have left school before completing secondary or even primary education. Many participants are engineers, but others have strong non-engineering backgrounds, in the Humanities, journalism, pure mathematics, the performing arts, among many others.\n"}
{"id": "55932315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55932315", "title": "Sheri Everts", "text": "Sheri Everts\n\nSheri Noren Everts is an American academic who is the current chancellor of Appalachian State University, North Carolina, in office since 2014.\n\nEverts grew up in Nebraska, and \"attended elementary school in a one-room schoolhouse\". She completed her undergraduate education at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln (UNL), graduating with a B.A. in English in 1980. She worked as a high-school English teacher in Nebraska and Kansas for several years, later returning to UNL to complete an M.A. in literacy education and a Ph.D. in education. In 1994, Everts joined the University of Nebraska Omaha (UNO) as an assistant professor in the Department of Teacher Education. She was made assistant vice-chancellor for academic and student affairs in 2000, associate vice-president in 2003, and interim senior vice-chancellor in 2006. Everts left UNO in 2008 to become provost and vice-president for academic affairs at Illinois State University. She served as interim president from May to August 2013, following the resignation of Alvin Bowman. In March 2014, Everts was announced as the new chancellor (president) of Appalachian State University. She took office in July 2014, but was not formally installed until April 2015. In June 2016, in response to a series of changes in the administration, a group of ASU students, alumni, and faculty launched a website critical of Everts' presidency.\n"}
{"id": "17064513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17064513", "title": "Siebel Scholars", "text": "Siebel Scholars\n\nThe Siebel Scholars program was established by the Thomas and Stacey Siebel Foundation in 2000 to recognize the most talented students at 29 graduate schools of business, computer science, bioengineering, and energy science in the United States, China, France, Italy, and Japan.\n\nFunding for the Siebel Scholars program was established through grants totaling more than $45 million. Each year, top graduate students from each institution are selected as Siebel Scholars. Siebel Scholars are selected by the Deans of each school on the basis of outstanding academic performance and qualities of leadership to receive a $35,000 award. The specific process varies from school to school.\n\nSiebel Scholars are key advisors to the Siebel Foundation, guiding the development of innovative programs the Foundation initiates. The annual Siebel Scholars conference and ongoing planning sessions throughout the year are an integral part of the Siebel Scholars program.\n\n\n\n\n\nA key element of the program is the annual Siebel Scholars Conference. Each year, current and past Scholars convene at the annual Conference. The Scholars, university faculty, and some thought-leaders gather to discuss and debate global issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "40498417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40498417", "title": "THE–QS World University Rankings, 2013", "text": "THE–QS World University Rankings, 2013\n\nThis is the top 200 of the 2013 Times Higher Education-QS World University Rankings / Times Higher Education World University Rankings / QS World University Rankings of the top 300 universities in the world.\n"}
{"id": "37307697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37307697", "title": "TScript", "text": "TScript\n\nTScript is an object-oriented embeddable scripting language for C++ that supports hierarchical transient typed variables (TVariable). Its main design criterion is to create a scripting language that can interface with C++, transforming data and returning the result. This enables C++ applications to change their functionality after installation.\n\nThe basic \"Hello World!\" TScript example.\nThe standard variable can be formed as fixed data such as a Boolean, Integer or Decimal and a variable length variable such as an ASCII string, wide character string or a binary string. The type of the data can be used to define variable or the type can be explicitly declared, so for example the code - \"variable myInteger = 0;\" will create a variable called myInteger and assign it the value of zero. An Integer type can also be declared as - \"Integer myInteger;\" and its default value will be set to zero.\n\nTVariable are hierarchical in nature and are very similar to XML, JavaScript and PHP variables.\n\nThe TVariable type is also transient as an Integer can be changed into an AString by assigning it a string value or by casting the variable to an AString. For example after an integer variable has been created and used, it can be reassigned by equating it to an AString.\n\nTVariables can also be used to hold an array of TVariables. Once a valid variable has been created, the array index subscripting notation can be used to transform it into an array, so for example the code - \"variable list = {0,2,4,6};\" will create an array with four elements. The TVariable type for \"list.type\" will be that of a structure and each element of \"list[0].type\" will be an Integer.\n\nClass in TScript are similar to array in how TVariable handle them, but use strings as array scriptures. For example the code - \"variable list = {\"Monday\" => true, \"Tuesday\" => false};\" will create a structured variable where list. Monday is true and list.Tuesday is false. In the native C++ code, structured TVariable elements are accessible in C++ by - list[\"Monday\"]; or by either list.Monday or list[\"Monday\"] in native code.\n\nSupporting hierarchical variables, TScript is able to store both primitive and complex variables within the same variable structure. This removes any requirement for any unique difference between primitives and structured data, therefore making the class structure a logical grouping of functionality rather than data storage type.\n\nTScript implements concepts of inheritance and code encapsulation through defined variables. For example the following code snippet show a defined variables \"Foo\" and \"Bar\" that supports a constructor.\nAnother striking feature of TScript is the function declarations, which use output parameters rather than return values, and provide syntactic support for these. The standard function in many procedural languages, following Algol, is of the form:\nIn TScript this pattern has been changed to the form:\nThis change has done two things, first it allows multiple output variables and secondly it changed the return statement to an error handling function.\n\nAllowing functions to have a list of input and output variables that are separated by the semi column \":\", changed the normal flow of how the function are called and used. This removes some of the need for using reference pointers to return multiple variables that is common in C/C++, and the use of references in most other scripting languages is actually prevented, forcing the use of a structure or array to return multiple values.\n\nThe second noticeable thing about the calling conventions is that now all functions have an integrated error handling purpose similar to try{…}catch(…){…} and trow new Exception() of C++ and Java. In TScript since all functions return an error, the return statement operates similar to the throw statement. For example the statement:- return error = \"Have an error message\"; will terminate the function and return the error message. Alternatively the blank statement;- return; will terminate the function but not return any error.\n\nFor convenience TScript offers a shorthand function calling in the situation where there is only one returned variable. This notation of will substitute the case of function(: variable); for variable = function();. This short notation prevents the calling code from catching any errors and they will automatically be return to the parental calling code.\n\nError handling in many other languages is done through the use of exceptions. TScript uses a similar process of error handling, although slightly different. TScript has a global error variable similar to the traditional errno in C, although the error variable in TScript is capable to holding both an error code and a detailed error message.\n\nIn many languages that use the try{...}catch(...){...} syntax the error is returned via the catch statement and this can make the operational flow of the code awkward in situations where some errors are recoverable. TScript uses the if(...){...} else{...} notation that allows calling code to filter the error, potentially recovering from the error and returning to normal operation, or returning the error to the its own calling function.\n\nC++ supports function overloading, which enables functions to have the same name while being differentiated by their input parameters. This causes TScript an issue while supporting loose type variables, as there is no way to tell what the type of a variable is until the software is being executed.\n\nTo counter this problem, TScript has been written with run-time linking. This is when the particular function called is dependent on the type of the variables when the function is called.\n\nThis is an unusual tactic that has some additional benefits. First it means that there is no need to declare functions before they are used, for example in C++ two functions may call one another, like \"void Foo(){ Bar();}\" and \"void Bar(){Bar();}\". In this situation, the \"Bar()\" needs to be prototyped in order for the \"Foo()\" to call it. TScript's run-time linking means the functions can be declared in any order without the need to prototype. This can make writing code much easier for less experienced programmers, allowing them to focus on the logic of the software and not the requirements of the language.\n\nRun-time linking also enables the language to support run-time coding with methods like \"AddMethod\" and \"AddDefinedVariable\". This enables TScript programs to write themselves. For example, when using the SOAP interface, the remote WSDL will be encoded into the script library, allowing the functions within to be called as if they were coded at design time. Additionally it is also possible to write code that can learn for itself, writing new functions when it needs it.\n\nTScript is among a small group is scripting languages that provide the functionality to dynamically load and link to existing shared libraries. Java through its JNI and VB6 are two other scripting languages that enable code to be written that would load a third party library and execute through its native interface. This gives TScript the ability to use a wealth of pre-existing functionality and code written in different languages and this can be done without any need to change the shared library’s interface or to be compiled with the source code.\n\nTScript uses the standard C++ class encapsulation to allocate and de-allocate memory resources. This means that all allocated memory is released when the variable containing it is destroyed and operated differently from the Garbage Collection model of Java or the reference counting model of .NET languages.\n\nOperation system resources such as files, sockets and encryption keys are managed via a reference counting mechanism similar to .NET, so they will be released as soon as there are no variables containing their values.\n\nWith the ability to load existing shared libraries, script can access all privileges granted to the user who executes it. To guard against malicious code, all resources beyond the basic memory allocation are required to be granted to each script. This also includes the ability to use message boxes to prompt the user, read and/or write access to any file or directory, or using the Internet connection.\n\nThis security architecture is designed to allow the running of scripts in a similar way to JavaScript while enabling the usefulness of more powerful scripting languages like PERL.\n\n"}
{"id": "47719637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47719637", "title": "The Netherlands-American Amity Trust", "text": "The Netherlands-American Amity Trust\n\nThe Netherlands-American Amity Trust was an organization dedicated to an educational and cultural exchange between the Netherlands and the United States. It dissolved in 2004 and is part of the Netherland-America Foundation today. It is best known today for its various publications.\n\nThe trust was founded in Washington, D.C. in 1980 with Ambassador J. William Middendorf II acting as its chairman. The occasion was for preparation of celebrations to commemorate 200 years of diplomatic relations between the Netherlands and the United States in 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "12949849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12949849", "title": "Thirteenth grade", "text": "Thirteenth grade\n\nThirteenth grade or grade thirteen is the final year of secondary school in some jurisdictions. In some locales it is compulsory, while it is optional in others.\n\nThe Ontario Academic Credit (OAC) ( or CPO) was a fifth year of secondary school education designed for students preparing for post-secondary education that existed in the province of Ontario, Canada. The OAC curriculum was codified by the Ontario Ministry of Education in \"Ontario Schools: Intermediate and Senior\" (OS:IS) and its revisions. The Ontario education system had five years of secondary education, the fifth year known as \"grade 13\" from 1921 to 1988. Then, grade 13 was replaced in 1983 by the OAC for students starting high school (grade 9). The OAC continued to act as a fifth year of secondary education until it was phased out in 2003.\n\nMost jurisdictions in America require or offer only twelfth grade as the final year of secondary school. Some school districts in Oregon offer a thirteenth grade. In North Carolina, early college high schools may provide 5 years, providing a grade 13.\n"}
{"id": "32131872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32131872", "title": "Tom Ahrens", "text": "Tom Ahrens\n\nThomas Ahrens is an American nurse, researcher, and educator at Barnes-Jewish Hospital specializing in critical-care nursing.\n\nDr. Ahrens graduated from Indiana University with a PhD in physiology and nursing in 1987.\n\nDr. Ahrens has more than 25 years of experience as a critical care nurse, and is the author of five books, more than 100 papers, and more than 40 scientific publications. His book \"Essentials of Oxygenation\" received the Book of the Year Award from the \"American Journal of Nursing\". Ahrens is also a grant reviewer for the National Institutes of Health and formerly served on the board of directors for AACN. He is a recognized authority in sepsis and has given numerous lectures around the country on the subject.\n\nDr. Ahrens is a Fellow of the American Academy of Nursing, which named him one of its first Edge Runners in 2006; the award recognizes innovations resulting in better care for patients, families, and the community. In 2008, he received the Flame of Excellence award from the American Association of Critical-Care Nurses.; this award recognizes sustained contributions of excellence in acute and critical care nursing.\n\nDr. Ahrens co-founded the company ICU-USA, Inc. in 1999. The company operates a website which provides educational information to hospital staff and medical information to patients and families (particularly those in intensive care units). The company also places computer kiosks in public areas for use by patients, families, and hospital staff in accessing the site. The website has been endorsed by the American Association of Critical Care Nurses and has been named \"The Official Patient and Family Website of the Society of Critical Care Medicine\" by the Society of Critical Care Medicine.\n\nDr. Ahrens and his wife Pat Ahrens have four children.\n"}
{"id": "2688155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2688155", "title": "Underachiever", "text": "Underachiever\n\nAn underachiever is a person who fails to achieve his or her potential or does not do as well as expected.\n\nOf particular interest is academic underachievement. Studies of individuals who have not realized their apparent potential have identified learning disabilities, ADHD, and many other educational problems, and subsequently enabled methods of addressing these problems. Current theories among academic scholars prefer to address underperformance problems with remedial help. \n\nThe term is also used more generally; for example, a sports team that contains many star players but still loses games against teams with relatively little obvious talent might be termed underachieving. A stock which achieves poor profit and/or capital gains despite sound underlying business and/or assets may be called underachieving.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819156", "title": "University of Khartoum", "text": "University of Khartoum\n\nUniversity of Khartoum (shortened to UofK) () is a multi-campus, co-educational, public university located in Khartoum. It is the largest and oldest university in Sudan. UofK was founded as Gordon Memorial College in 1902 and established in 1956 when Sudan gained independence. Since that date, the University of Khartoum has been recognized as a top university and a high-ranked academic institution in Sudan and Africa.\nIt features several institutes, academic units and research centers including Mycetoma Research Center, Soba University Hospital, Saad Abualila Hospital, Dr. Salma Dialysis centre, Institute of Endemic Diseases, Institute for Studies and Promotion of Animal Exports, Institute of African and Asian Studies, Institute of Prof. Abdalla ElTayeb for Arabic Language, Development Studies and Research Institute and U of K publishing house. The Sudan Library, a section of the university's library, serves as the national library of Sudan.\n\nIn 1898 after Britain gained dominance in Sudan as part of a condominium arrangement, Lord Kitchener proposed founding a college in the memory of Gordon of Khartoum, who was killed in the Battle of Khartoum. Gordon Memorial College was founded in 1902 with primary education being its sole program.\nBy 1906, the college was offering programs for training assistant engineers, land surveyors and primary school teachers. The first equipped laboratory for bacteriological analysis was added in 1905, with donations from Sir Henry Wellcome, an American-British pharmaceutical entrepreneur and archaeologist.\n\nIn 1924, the college incorporated programs in Sharia, engineering, education (teachers training), clerical work, accounting and science. The Kitchener School of Medicine, the first medical school in Sudan, was established.\n\nIn 1936, the School of Law was established. In 1947, the college was affiliated with The University of London as the first overseas participant in its \"special relationship\" scheme. The first graduates to receive University of London degrees completed their programs in 1950. The next year, Gordon Memorial College was formally renamed University College Khartoum, which incorporated the Kitchener School of Medicine.\n\nWhen Sudan gained independence in 1956, the new Parliament passed a bill to award university status to Khartoum University College. It officially became Khartoum University on 24 July 1956. The eminent horticultural scientist John Pilkington Hudson was a visiting professor in 1961-3, who founded its department of horticulture.\n\nOn 5 April 1984, the Government announced the closure of all faculties of the university. The university was reopened fully on August 1.\n\nThe university was closed several times after the 1989 military coup d'état for the intensive participation of its students in pro-democracy rallies.\n\nThe university has 16,800 undergraduate students in 23 faculties, schools and graduate research institutes. The annual admission rate is 3,500 students, 55% of whom are female. There are 6,000 graduate students (graduate diploma, M.Sc. and Ph.D.). It has 850 teaching staff (faculty), 20 research fellows and 500 teaching assistants.\n\nThere are four campuses:\n\nUndergraduate admission policy is governed by the Board of Higher Education of Sudan, which sets the minimum admission requirement for high school students based on their national origin (Sudanese vs. non-Sudanese) and the high-school certificate board.\n\nFor post-graduate studies, the requirements are on the university admission webpage.\n\nStudents of University of Khartoum engage in Workshops, Lectures, Debates, Forum Activism, book clubs and Political Parties. Sporting Activities include university sports championship tournament and Sudan colleges championship tournament.\n\nThe Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences was founded in 1966 under the name “School of Medical Laboratory Technicians” as a joint venture between the Faculty of Medicine, University of Khartoum and the Ministry of Health.\nIts development was continued until in 1993 an ordinance was passed for the establishment of the College of Medical Laboratory Sciences an independent institution affiliated to the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research.In 1997, it was merged with the University of Khartoum as the Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences (FMLS).\nThe Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences offers preparation for careers in medical (clinical) laboratory sciences. A career in medical laboratory sciences is a great way to combine an aptitude for science with the desire to help others. Medical Laboratory Scientists, also known as clinical laboratory scientists, are highly skilled professionals who perform analytical tests on blood, tissue, and body fluids to provide laboratory information for the detection, diagnosis, and treatment of human diseases. There also is a growing trend for medical lab scientists to perform wellness laboratory testing aimed at preventing disease.\nDegrees Awarded:\nGeneral B.Sc.: 4 years\nHonor B.Sc.: 5 years\nM.S.c: By courses\nM.Sc.: By research\nPhD: By research\nDepartments of the Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences:\n\n2.1- Department of Microbiology:\n\nIt is one of the biggest departments in FMLS, it includes the following disciplines: Medical Bacteriology, Medical Virology, Medical Mycology, Immunology.\n\n2.2- Departments of Haematology and Immunohematology:\n\nDeals with all aspects related to blood, its components and related diseases such as anaemia, cancer, and also blood transfusion.\n\n2.3- Department of Parasitology and Medical Entomology:\n\nTeaches the knowledge of pathogenic parasites such as malaria, worms such as Schistosomes and insect vectors of diseases.\n\n2.4- Department of Chemical Pathology:\n\nDeals with everything related to body chemistry including but not limited to chemical shifts in the body due to diseases, hormonal balance, enzymes, trace elements and toxicology.\n\n2.5- Department of Histopathology and Cytology:\n\nFocuses on identifying the composition of cells and tissues of the body and the change in their composition due to chronic cases. Division of the Department: Cytopathology, Histotechniques, Immunohistochemistry, Cytogenetics, Molecular Pathology, Cellular pathology\n\n\nFaculty of Dentistry was established in 1971 as a school that belong to the Faculty of Medicine. It was the first in Sudan to provide dental training. In 1992 it upgraded to a separate faculty. The school now has approximately 60 outstanding faculty and staff and 600 students enrolled in BDS degree programs, 90 postgraduate and 90 dental technology.\n\n\n\nBy the end of 2011, Faculty of Dentistry became the only center in Africa for examinations of the Diploma of Member of Faculty of Dentistry, Royal College of Surgeon in Ireland (MFDRCSI). Part 1 exam is held twice a year and Part 2 is once a year. In all the previous exams, faculty graduate achieved outstanding grades.\n\nFaculty of Dentistry Student have an association through which they can realize a lot of their activities. It is a member in the International Association of Dental Students (IADS). ADSUK organized one of the most successful IADS' conferences in Khartoum in 2006. One of the most programs arranged by ADSUK are the Health Field Trip where students as well as staff member travel to rural areas and stay there to give distant citizens dental services and to educate them.\n\nUniversity of Khartoum plays a leading role in scientific research and development through a number of specialized research centers and institutes:\n\nUniversity of Khartoum Library, known as the \"Main Library,\" is one of the biggest and oldest libraries in universities in Sudan and Africa. The library building represents the historical and iconic heritage of U. of K. In addition to the Main library, there are small libraries in each faculty and institute as well as Altegany Almahi library for postgraduate students and Sudan Library.\n\nUniversity of Khartoum has an Information Technology and Communication Center which is responsible for developing and managing of the ICT infrastructure of the university. All university campuses are connected by dedicated high-speed links (fiber optics); WiFi covers most of the campuses and electronic registration on the university website. In addition to the ICT centre, the Faculty of Mathematical Sciences has its own Information Technology research unit which is active in developing and promoting Open Source software in Sudan.\n\n\nSince the independence of Sudan, highly qualified Sudanese were appointed to the position of University of Khartoum vice chancellor. The first one was Dr. Nasr El Hag Ali and the most notable one is Prof. ELnazeer Dafalla.\n\nUniversity of Khartoum plays a great role in building and qualifying most of the Sudanese leaders.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39469690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39469690", "title": "V.T. Thayer", "text": "V.T. Thayer\n\nVivian Trow Thayer (1886–1979) is best known as a Progressive educator who authored many books about American education. He was married to Florence Amelia Adams. \n\nThayer was born in Nebraska and raised in rural Wisconsin. Thayer's father worked as a minister, rural mail-carrier, and farmer. The economic challenges of Thayer's early life impacted his sensitivity to the struggle of others later in his career. He attended Carroll Academy, and then moved to the University of Wisconsin at Madison, where he received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. in philosophy. While pursuing his degrees, Thayer worked to support himself through employment first as an attendant at a sanitarium, then in a restaurant, and later waiting tables in a boarding house. At one point, financial constraints forced him to take a two-year leave from the university and serve first as principal of an elementary school, and later as Superintendent of Schools, in Ashland, Wisconsin.\n\nDuring his tenure as Educational Director of the Ethical Culture Schools in New York City from 1928–1948, Thayer was involved with the Progressive Education Association. His role and work in the Eight-Year Study led to the formation of a second commission which he chaired: the Commission on the Secondary School Curriculum. The results of the commission were published in \"Reorganizing Secondary Education\" (1939).\n\nThayer is associated with the educational philosophy of John Dewey, and worked with many leading Progressive educators. Among others were Boyd H. Bode, Horace Kallen, and Harold Alberty. Thayer lectured and taught at many universities, including Teacher's College, Columbia University; Harvard University; Ohio State University; the University of Hawaii; the University of Virginia; and Johns Hopkins University.\n\nIn 1933, Thayer was one of the original signories of the \"Humanist Manifesto\" (I). He served in editorial positions for the \"American Review\" and the \"Journal of Educational Research\". Thayer was named a Kappa Delta Pi Laureate, Pioneer Humanist of the Year (1964) by the American Humanist Association, and in 1969 received the Distinguished Lifetime Service to Education award from The John Dewey Society.\n\nThayer's many books include the following:\n"}
{"id": "22802845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22802845", "title": "VISQ", "text": "VISQ\n\nVISQ (Portuguese acronym for \"Variables that Interact Semi-Quantitatively\") is a scientific-educational software developed using Carnegie-Mellon's cT, in the year of 1993 by M. Thielo (as a physics undergrad at the time), based on Jon Ogborn ideas for semi-quantitative modeling of dynamical systems, for both MS-DOS and Macintosh systems (in 2012 the author published a new, Windows compatible version). Awarded by the Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS) in 1994, the system is based on the theory of continuous neural networks, and have been used in many research projects since then, mainly in Master and Doctoral Dissertations in the area of environmental education. An introduction to VISQ (in Portuguese) can be found at the university site, and the software can be freely downloaded from the author's site\n\n"}
{"id": "22643554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22643554", "title": "William Ward Watkin", "text": "William Ward Watkin\n\nWilliam Ward Watkin (January 21, 1886 – June 24, 1952) was an architect primarily practicing in Houston, Texas.\n\nWatkin was born in Boston, Massachusetts on January 21, 1886, and grew up in Danville, Pennsylvania, where he graduated from high school in 1903. After graduating from the University of Pennsylvania in 1908, he spent a year in Europe and then moved to Boston, Massachusetts to join the architecture firm of Cram, Goodhue & Ferguson. Watkin was then sent to Houston, TX to work on plans for Rice Institute (now named Rice University) and was the firm's representative supervisor there. Edgar Odell Lovett, the President of Rice Institute, offered Watkin a faculty position in architectural engineering when the Institute opened in 1912. He later became the head of the architecture department, a position he held until his death.\n\nIn addition to his duties at Rice, Watkin designed a large number of structures, many of which are architecturally significant. He died and was interred at Forest Park Cemetery in Houston .\n\nWilliam Ward Watkin's parents were Fred Ward and Mary Mathilda (née Hancock) Watkin. The family moved to Danville, Pennsylvania, where young William graduated from Danville High School in 1903. He entered the University of Pennsylvania, where he studied architecture with Paul Philippe Cret and earned a B.S. degree in architecture in 1908. In 1909, he joined the Boston architectural firm of Cram, Goodhue, and Ferguson. In 1910, the firm sent him to Houston, Texas to supervise construction of the newly created Rice Institute (now Rice University).\n\nWatkin married Annie Ray Townsend in 1914. They had three children, two daughters and a son: Annie Ray Watkin (1914-2011), Rosemary Watkin (1917-1984) and William Ward Watkin, Jr. (1919-2001). His first wife died in 1928. His second wife was Josephine Cockerel, who died in 1987.\n\nWatkin's first major assignment was to oversee construction of a new school in Houston, Texas named the William Marsh Rice Institute. Watkin had helped prepare the original masterplan drawings following intense correspondence between Cram, Goodhue, and President Lovett. The initial complement of structures included the Administration Building (now named Lovett Hall), a power plant and Mechanical Laboratory, and one dormitory with a dining hall, located on two miles southwest of downtown on an unpaved Main Street. The cornerstone of the Administration Building was laid in 1911.\n\nAfter the school opened in 1912, Watkin was hired by Dr. Edgar Odell Lovett, the president of Rice, to become an instructor in architectural engineering. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1915 and full professor in 1922. In this capacity, he would continue to work on newer buildings for the campus and nearby, such as:\n\nIn 1927, he became a full professor and maintained that rank until his death in 1952.\n\nWatkins established a traveling architectural fellowship in 1928, which enabled one student per year to travel abroad while studying architecture. The fellowship was renamed for its founder in 1953 and is now the William Ward Watkin Traveling Fellowship.\n\nWatkin also conducted a commercial architectural practice in parallel with his academic position. This enabled him to participate in creating a number of notable projects. Most were built in the Houston area, but a few were outside the area. For example, he designed the campus of Texas Tech University and its administration building in Lubbock, Texas.\n\n"}
