{"id": "12850726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12850726", "title": "A153 road", "text": "A153 road\n\nThe A153 is a non-primary A road that is located entirely in Lincolnshire in the east of England.\n\nThe A153 starts at the T-junction with the A607 at Honington and heads east to Sleaford, passing a crossroads with the B6403 - the Roman Ermine Street. Between Honington and Sleaford the road roughly follows the rail line through the River Slea valley. The road briefly ends at Sleaford which is bypassed by the A15 and A17 before remerging at Bone Mill Junction along the A17, heading north from there. Before the bypasses were built, the road went through Sleaford; this route is now the B1517. After leaving Sleaford the road goes through the villages of Anwick, North Kyme and Billinghay before crossing the River Witham and reaching Tattershall and Coningsby. From there the road follows the Bain Valley north towards the town of Horncastle where it intersects the busy A158, causing frequent traffic jams. Often in the summer months on Bank Holidays they can be miles long. The road leaves Horncastle and briefly continues to follow the Bain Valley before crossing over the breadth of the Lincolnshire Wolds and terminating at the A16 Louth bypass \n"}
{"id": "41089318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41089318", "title": "Abu'l Abbas al-Hijazi", "text": "Abu'l Abbas al-Hijazi\n\nAbu'l Abbas al-Hijazi, was a 12th-century Arab Muslim traveler, merchant and sailor and is known to have spent forty years in China. His seven sons whom he positioned in seven different commercial centers from his base in Yemen, enhanced his trading business by sending goods from foreign markets. He had lost 11 ships in the Indian Ocean but recovered his fortunes when his 12th ship safely arrived from China which carried porcelain and aloewood.\n"}
{"id": "15835542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15835542", "title": "Anton Dohrn Seamount", "text": "Anton Dohrn Seamount\n\nThe Anton Dohrn Seamount is a guyot in the Rockall Trough in the northeast Atlantic. It was named after the German fishery research vessel which discovered it at the end of the 1950s which, in turn, had been named after the 19th-century biologist Anton Dohrn.\n\nThe feature rises from approximately 2,100 metres to 600 metres below sea level and has a sedimentary layer approximately 100 metres thick. It arose through episodic volcanic activity between 70 and 40 million years ago.\n\nAround the base of the seamount is a slight \"moat\" where the sea-bottom is at a lower depth than the surrounding terrain.\n\nReleasing their findings in August 2016, the Deep Links project team, a collaboration between Plymouth University, the University of Oxford, the Joint Nature Conservation Committee and the British Geological Survey, spent six weeks at sea on board the RSS James Cook deploying robot submersibles to film, photograph and collect samples from an exceptionally diverse coral reef environment now revealed on the top of the plateau-like seamount.\n\n"}
{"id": "23060146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23060146", "title": "CC9", "text": "CC9\n\nIn 2008 the Club of Madrid, the Bellona Foundation and the utility company Hafslund ASA joined forces to organize the top level climate conference in Norway called #CC8 (Climate Conference 08: Technology and Finance in Climate Cooperation). In 2009 the same organizers are arranging CC9 (Climate Conference 09: Green Technology and Finance – Striking a Fair Climate Deal) which will take place on 4 and 5 June at Hafslund Manor in Sarpsborg, Norway. It will be followed by a climate festival for children in the adjacent park on 6 June.\n\nThe objective of CC9 is to contribute to the conclusion of a fair climate agreement by advancing the potential of green technology and adequate funding. Investing in the development and diffusion of green technologies and renewable energy is a sustainable way to stimulate the economy and create new jobs - sustainable economic growth that can reinforce efforts to combat climate change while respecting development needs.\n\nHis Royal Highnesses Crown Prince Haakon of Norway will open the Conference. \n\nAmong those who will be speaking at CC9 is Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who has made a name for himself as a clear-headed and dynamic advocate for the environment. Kennedy founded and now chairs the Waterkeeper Alliance, an organization working to improve water quality in the US and elsewhere in the world. In his work as a lawyer, Kennedy handles cases for the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), one of the largest environmental organizations in the US. The NRDC is known as a solution-oriented and competent player in the environmental field. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is the first member of the Kennedy family to visit Norway.\n\nIn addition to Mr. Kennedy, many other prestigious names will be participating at CC9, including Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, Norwegian Minister of the Environment and International Development Erik Solheim and Stephen O. Andersen, director of Strategic Climate Projects in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).\n\nStephen O. Andersen is a senior, renowned environmental expert, working for the EPA, the closest equivalent the USA has to a Ministry of the Environment. Mr. Andersen has been a key player in the work on the Montreal Protocol, an exceptionally successful international environmental treaty that negotiated the elimination of ozone-depleting gases and effectively saved the ozone layer. Andersen is the EPA's director of strategic projects, in the Climate Protection Partnerships Division.\n\nAlso from the USA comes Ira Magaziner, head of the Clinton Climate Initiative (CCI). The CCI forms part of the William J. Clinton Foundation (founded by former US president Bill Clinton). The foundation's work includes efforts to cut the costs of climate technology (for renewable energy and energy efficiency) in large cities.\n\nRepresenting the African continent are the former president of Tanzania, Benjamin Mkapa, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Niger Aïchatou Mindaoudou. Mindaoudou is a well-known figure in the field of international development, and she will be giving a speech at CC9 entitled \"What is at stake for women and the planet - climate change and sustainable development in Africa. Business models for poverty alleviation and green growth\".\n\nA number of participants from Asia and Europe will also be present at the climate conference.\n\nStarting out on World Environment Day, the conference gathered 100 exclusively selected international representatives from politics, academia, the private sector and the environmental movement at the Hafslund Manor in Sarpsborg south of Oslo.\n\nAmong the distinguished speakers were: Ricardo Lagos, former president of Chile, UN Special Envoy on climate change and president of the Club of Madrid; Lord Nicholas Stern, author of the notable report on the economic ramifications of climate change; Göran Persson, former Prime Minister of Sweden who, together with Ricardo Lagos, co-chairs the International Socialist Commission for a Sustainable World Society Also attending from the Club of Madrid was Jennifer Mary Shipley, former Prime Minister of New Zealand, Kjell Magne Bondevik and Gro Harlem Brundtland, both former Prime Ministers of Norway. The Club of Madrid, the Bellona Foundation and Hafslund ASA set out to organize an ambitious, pro-development, creative and solutions-oriented conference which could act in a joint effort to provide input for the international negotiation process on a new climate agreement.\n\nNegotiations for a post-2012 global climate change agreement were formally launched at the climate summit in Bali last December and are expected to be concluded in Copenhagen in 2009. With this process underway, the Club of Madrid, the Bellona Foundation and Hafslund ASA joined forces to spur ideas for a final agreement that will be both ambitious and realistic, as well as providing predictability in efforts to combat climate change.\n\nThorough discussions in small working groups enabled the drafting of ambitious, creative and solutions-oriented recommendations in a final statement from the conference. In order to inform the post-2012 negotiations, the aim will be to reach out to both negotiators and policy makers and industry and the business community.\n\nAt the Bali summit, it was agreed to concentrate the negotiations on mitigation, adaptation, technology and finance. The CC8 conference «Technology and Finance in Climate Cooperation» focuses specifically on what technology and finance provisions a new agreement on climate change should include.\n\nThe co-organizers are convinced that successful outcomes in these fields will be essential to enable ambitious overall emission reduction targets (the overall objective of an agreement) and solve the contradiction between, on the one hand, rich countries’ responsibility for climate change and, on the other hand, the necessity to limit emissions also of emerging economies.\n\nSaturday 7 June the marathon \"Climate Concert 08\" was arranged in the park surrounding the Hafslund Manor in Sarpsborg. Well-known Norwegian bands were on stage. The environmental issues from the Climate Conference 08 coloured all parts of the arrangement; the food served, transportation and power supply.\n\nThe artists performing on Climate Conference 08, were Bertine Zetlitz, Surferosa, deLillos'85, Henning Kvitnes, Kaizers Orchestra, Madcon, CC Cowboys and Ida Maria.\n\nAgainst the backdrop of an unprecedented global economic crisis, the next months will be decisive for reaching a politically viable and fair post-2012 climate agreement in Copenhagen 2009.\n\nFew players inside negotiation circles expect developing countries to make significant moves before developed countries have clarified their positions on emission reductions, financing and diffusion of green technology.\n\nCopenhagen must deliver on the human dimension of climate change. It is clear that the poorest, those least responsible, will be most vulnerable to climate change. Countries that have accumulated tremendous economic growth through their historic reliance on fossil fuels must assume a leadership role in cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Likewise, it will be critical to secure the development and diffusion of appropriate, clean technology and the access to necessary financial resources for developing countries to adopt them.\n\nThe global crisis constitutes a tremendous opportunity for governments to address the weaknesses of the existing, international financial system but, more importantly, to lay the foundations for the development of a green and sustainable economy. Investing in clean technologies can be key to this process, creating employment opportunities across the globe while addressing the challenge of climate change. In this sense, the adoption of sectoral approaches within the negotiations could, in fact, facilitate technology development and the adoption of best available technologies across regions, between developed and developing countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4918114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4918114", "title": "Cercles of Mali", "text": "Cercles of Mali\n\nA cercle is the second level administrative unit in Mali. Mali is divided into eight \"régions\" and one capital district (Bamako); the \"régions\" are subdivided into 49 \"cercles\". These subdivisions bear the name of their principal city.\n\nDuring French colonial rule in Mali, a cercle was the smallest unit of French political administration that was headed by a European officer. A cercle consisted of several cantons, each of which in turn consisted of several villages. In 1887 the Cercle of Bafoulabé was the first cercle to be created in Mali. In most of former French West Africa, the term \"cercle\" was changed to Prefecture or Department after independence, but this was not done in Mali.\n\nSome cercles (and the district) were, prior to the 1999 local government reorganisation, further divided into Arrondissements, especially in urban areas or the vast northern regions (such as Kidal), which consisted of a collection of Communes. Since these reforms, cercles are now directly subdivided into rural and urban communes, which in turn are divided in \"Quartiers\" (Quarters, or Villages and encampments in rural areas) which have elected councils at each level. There are 703 communes, 36 \"urban communes\" (including 6 in Bamako District) and 667 \"rural communes\". The cercles are listed below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45101818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45101818", "title": "Circle of equal altitude", "text": "Circle of equal altitude\n\nThe circle of equal altitude also called circle of position, CoP, is the real line of position in celestial navigation. It is defined as the locus of the Earth on which an observer sees a star, at a given time, with the same observed altitude.\n\nThe center of the CoP, is the substellar point or geographical position of the observed body, and its radius is the great circle distance equal to the zenith distance of the body.\n\n\nThe equation links the following variables\n\n\nformula_1\n\nBeing \"B\" the latitude (+N/S), \"L\" the longitude (+E/-W). \"LHA\" = \"GHA\" + \"L\" is the local hour angle, \"Dec\" and \"GHA\" are the declination and Greenwich hour angle of the star observed. And \"Ho\" is the true or observed altitude, that is, the altitude measured with sextant corrected for dip, refraction, parallax.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17146478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17146478", "title": "Cohors I Delmatarum", "text": "Cohors I Delmatarum\n\nCohors prima Delmatarum (\"1st Cohort of Dalmatae\") was a Roman auxiliary infantry regiment. It is named after the Dalmatae, an Illyrian-speaking tribe that inhabited the Adriatic coastal mountain range of the eponymous Dalmatia. The ancient geographer Strabo describes these mountains as extremely rugged, and the Dalmatae as backward and warlike. He claims that they did not use money long after their neighbours adopted it and that they \"made war on the Romans for a long time\". He also criticises the Dalmatae, a nation of pastoralists, for turning fertile plains into sheep pasture. Indeed, the name of the tribe itself is believed to mean \"shepherds\", derived from the Illyrian word \"delme\" (\"sheep\"). The final time this people fought against Rome was in the Illyrian revolt of 6-9 AD. The revolt was started by Dalmatae auxiliary forces and soon spread all over Dalmatia and Pannonia. The resulting war was described by the Roman writer Suetonius as the most difficult faced by Rome since the Punic Wars two centuries earlier. But after the war, the Dalmatae became a loyal and important source of recruits for the Roman army.\n\nAccording to Holder, a total of 12 \"Cohortes Delmatarum\" appear to have been raised after the suppression of the Illyrian revolt in two series, of 7 and 5 respectively. All these units were in existence by the time of emperor Claudius (r. 41-54) Of these, 9 appear to have survived into the 2nd century.\n\nThe regiment was probably raised by founder-emperor Augustus (r. 30BC-14AD) after 9 AD. It was certainly in existence by the time of Claudius (r. 41-54). Its early movements are unknown. Holder suggests that the regiment may have taken part in the Roman invasion of Britain (43) or the suppression of the revolt of Boudicca (61), but there is no evidence. It first appears in the datable epigraphic record in 122, in Britannia. It was still there in 138-61, the time of its last datable inscription. It is attested in the following Roman forts in Britannia: High Rochester, Maryport (138-61) and Chesters (138-61).\n\nThe names of 12 \"praefecti\" (regimental commanders) are attested. From the locations of their votive or funerary stones, it can be deduced that at least 4 were cantral/southern Italians: from Aquino, Beneventum, the city of Rome (c. 120), and Tusculum. Another was a member of the Santones Gallic tribe of western Gaul, and one from Baláca (Pannonia). In addition, a \"centurio\" (infantry officer) is attested.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55470472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55470472", "title": "Donji Lađevac", "text": "Donji Lađevac\n\nDonji Lađevac is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "49786480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49786480", "title": "Elizabeth Cullen Dunn", "text": "Elizabeth Cullen Dunn\n\nElizabeth Cullen Dunn (born 1968) is an American political anthropologist and geographer. Her work focuses on responses to catastrophic social change, particularly in the post-Soviet world.\n\nDunn holds a Ph.D. in anthropology from Johns Hopkins University (1998).\n\nBroadly summarized, Dunn’s work investigates governance, the state, and the ways in which these processes strive to produce governable subjects. She investigates these topics by examining the ways they are manifest in people’s lived experiences. Though all Dunn’s work deals with these topics, thematically, it can be divided into three bodies of literature: on foreign direct investment (FDI) in Poland and the former Eastern Bloc more broadly; on global food safety regulation; and, most recently, on forced migration.\n\nIn her book, \"Privatizing Poland\", Dunn examines the attempts at transition from Eastern European planned economies to neoliberal economic models. In doing so, she investigates the importance of governance, discipline, and the production of subjectivities to economic models. Dunn uses the takeover of a Polish baby food canning factory by the American company Gerber as a case study for this investigation. What she finds is that, while there are similarities in the management and organizational techniques applied to industry in the West and the former Warsaw Pact countries, differences in economic structure and planning mechanisms produced rhythms of work and of life generally that were very different in Poland from those in the capitalist West. These rhythms in turn influenced the attitudes and personhood of the Polish people. The result is that introduction of neoliberal capitalism came to be a project not just of privatization and market reform, but rather of cultural transformation, an attempt to shape the Polish people into neoliberal subjects, adapted to the rhythms of life and work under neoliberal capitalism.\n\nIn her work on global food safety regulation, Dunn examines how the state reacts to outbreaks or changing incidence of food-borne illness. She examines the state’s attempts to control or eliminate these diseases via regulation, while nevertheless adhering to its own foundational, politico-economic principles (e.g. socialist, planned economy; neoliberal capitalism). She identifies the ways in which processes of food production and the regulation thereof work to produce governable subjects by instilling particular values of self-governance or dependence on the state. Dunn also utilizes the presence of disease-causing organisms or outbreaks of food-borne illness as tracers to identify geographical and social spaces in which the state fails to control illness. She investigates how these spaces of chaos or “wildness” can have various causes, sometimes representing a failure of the state to fully penetrate the spaces of every-day life; while in other instances being an integral, reproduced aspect of governance.\n\nMuch of Dunn’s work on forced migration has looked more specifically at the plight of internally displaced persons(IDPs) in the republic of Georgia. In this work, Dunn builds on scholarship that has critically examined the phenomenon of humanitarian aid – its penchant for providing immediate aid rather than long-term support, the resultant inadequacy of ‘standardized’ aid packages, its responsibility to local elites and foreign donors, and the divisive question of aid in relation to politics. Examining these questions herself, and using them as a foundation, she identifies how humanitarian aid functions as a condition, keeping the ‘recipients’ of aid in a state of limbo, between the past and the future, unsure of what to expect from the future, and therefore unable to act in the present. Finally, she investigates the ways in which this condition, constantly reproduced by the very structures which claim to provide stability and relief, in fact transforms the recipients of aid into easily governable subjects, beholden to a system that insists on maintaining their physical lives, while denying them the solid footing from which to end their reliance on this same system.\n\nAfter graduating with her PhD, Dunn accepted a fellowship at the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin from 1999-2000. Later that year, she received a joint appointment as assistant professor in the Department of Geography and the Program in International Affairs at the University of Colorado in Boulder, CO. In 2006 she accepted a fellowship to Yale University’s Center for Agrarian Studies. She remained in her position as assistant professor until 2008, when she was promoted to the position of associate professor in the same departments at University of Colorado. In 2014, Dunn moved to her current position as Associate Professor in the Departments of Geography and International Studies at Indiana University, Bloomington. In 2015, she received a fellowship at Copenhagen University’s Department of Comparative Cultural and Regional Studies.\n\nDunn, E. (in preparation). \"Unsettled: Displacement, Aid and the Problem of Existence in Postwar Georgia\". Ithaca: Cornell University Press.\nDunn, E. (2004) \"Privatizing Poland: Baby Food, Big Business, and the Remaking of Labor\". Ithaca: Cornell University Press. (In Polish translation, Prywatyzujac Polske, 2008, Warsaw: Krytyka Polityczna).\n\n"}
{"id": "20306750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20306750", "title": "Francisco Combés", "text": "Francisco Combés\n\nFrancisco Combés (1620 – 1665) was a Spanish priest who established Christian monasteries in the Philippines in the 17th century.\n\nCombés was born in Zaragoza (Spain) in 1620. When he was twelve, he joined the Jesuit order as a novice at Tarragona, harbor city near in Catalonia. Before finishing his priesthod, after only six years of study, he expressed the desire to become part of the expedition to the Philippine Islands. He was assigned to Mexico, and from there he joined a group of Roman Catholic missionaries bound for the East Indies.\n\nIn 1643, eleven years after entering the Jesuits, together with forty-six other friars he was sent to the Philippines in an expedition by Diego de Bobadilla. Combés finished his theological studies in the Philippines, and was ordained as a Jesuit in 1645. He was assigned to Zamboanga in Mindanao where he ministered for more than a decade to the religious needs of the natives. In the twelve years that he served there he grew to acquire strategic function, and prestige as a leader, becoming ambassador to the Muslim chieftains, among them Sultan Corralat, and the sultans of Jolo.\n\nHe traveled to Manila in 1657, and stayed there for two years. He was assigned to Leyte where he remained for three years. He gained deep insights into the history, the customs and traditions, and the language of the island.\n\nCombés was again recalled to Manila in 1662. Sensing the decline in the Spanish hold on the Muslim areas of Mindanao, he tried to persuade the Spanish government, and religious authorities to strengthen or hold on government fortifications in the island.\n\nWhile on voyage to Madrid, and then to Rome as procurator of the Jesuit order, Combés died on board on December 29, 1665. He was 45 years old.\n\nCombés wrote a book, \"Historia de las Islas de Mindanao, Iolo, y sus adyacentes\" ... (Madrid, Herederos de Pablo de Val, 1667) that contains a three-paragraph section on the voyage of Fernão de Magalhães (\"i.e.\" Ferdinand Magellan) in Philippine waters in March–April 1521. It talks of Magellan and his fleet anchoring in Butuan and planting a cross at a mountain there. From Butuan, Magellan and crew sail for Cebu making a brief stopover at an island named \"Limasaua\". Today, Combés story is seen differently. Instead of anchoring at Butuan, Magellan's fleet is anchored at Limasaua. A mass, which is not mentioned in Combes' story, is held at Limasaua. This phantom mass is celebrated in the Philippines every year and the island Limasaua (now universally spelled with a w in place of u, \"Limasawa\") is known as the site of the \"First mass in the Philippines\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2179243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179243", "title": "Great Trigonometrical Survey", "text": "Great Trigonometrical Survey\n\nThe Great Trigonometrical Survey was a project which aimed to measure the entire Indian subcontinent with scientific precision. It was begun in 1802 by the infantry officer William Lambton, under the auspices of the East India Company. Under the leadership of his successor, George Everest, the project was made a responsibility of the Survey of India. Everest was succeeded by Andrew Scott Waugh and after 1861 the project was led by James Walker, who saw the first completion of it in 1871.\n\nAmong the many accomplishments of the Survey were the demarcation of the British territories in India and the measurement of the height of the Himalayan giants: Everest, K2, and Kanchenjunga. The Survey had an enormous scientific impact as well, being responsible for one of the first accurate measurements of a section of an arc of longitude, and for measurements of the geodesic anomaly which led to the development of the theories of isostasy.\n\nFrom its inception in 1600 to the beginning of the nineteenth century, the British East India Company gained more territory on the Indian subcontinent. With the acquisition of new territory, it employed several explorers and cartographers to provide maps and other information on its territories, most notably James Rennell, from 1767 in Bengal. As Rennell proceeded making maps, some serious flaws in them surfaced, based on a lack of precise measurements. In 1800, shortly after the English victory over Tipu Sultan, William Lambton, an infantry soldier with experience in surveying proposed to remedy precisely that, through a series of triangulations initially through the newly acquired territory of Mysore and eventually across the entire subcontinent.\n\nThe Great Trigonometrical Survey of India started on 10 April 1802 with the measurement of a baseline near Madras. Major Lambton selected the flat plains with St. Thomas Mount at the north end and Perumbauk hill at the southern end. The baseline was long. Lieutenant Kater was despatched to find high vantage points on the hills of the west so that the coastal points of Tellicherry and Cannanore could be connected. The high hills chosen were Mount Delly and Tadiandamol. The distance from coast to coast was and this survey line was completed in 1806. The East India Company thought that this project would take about 5 years but eventually it took nearly 70 years well past the Indian Rebellion of 1857 and the end of company rule in India. Because of the extent of the land to be surveyed, the surveyors did not triangulate the whole of India but instead created what they called a \"gridiron\" of triangulation chains running from North to South and East to West. At times the survey party numbered 700 people.\nThe Trigonometrical Survey was conducted independently of other surveys, notably the topographical and revenue surveys. In 1875, the decision was taken that the Survey budget should be reduced from 240,000 to 200,000 pounds. This resulted in a reorganization under Surveyor-General Colonel J.T. Walker to amalgamate the Great Trigonometrical, Topographical and Revenue Surveys into the Survey of India.\n\nTriangulation surveys were based on a few carefully measured baselines and a series of angles. The initial baseline was measured with great care, since the accuracy of the subsequent survey was critically dependent upon it. Various corrections were applied, principally temperature. An especially accurate folding chain was used, laid on horizontal tables, all shaded from the sun and with a constant tension. The early surveys made use of large and bulky theodolites made by William Carey, a Zenith sector made by Jesse Ramsden and chains. Later surveys used more compact theodolites. \nAccurate instruments could not always be purchased through the standard system of government contract and Everest personally supervised the construction of instruments. He had a maker, Henry Barrow, set up an instrument company in Calcutta. For a while Barrow was succeeded by Syed Mohsin from Arcot and after his death the instruments were supplied by Cooke from York.\nTo achieve the highest accuracy a number of corrections were applied to all distances calculated from simple trigonometry:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "192025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192025", "title": "Green roof", "text": "Green roof\n\nA green roof or living roof is a roof of a building that is partially or completely covered with vegetation and a growing medium, planted over a waterproofing membrane. It may also include additional layers such as a root barrier and drainage and irrigation systems. Container gardens on roofs, where plants are maintained in pots, are not generally considered to be true green roofs, although this is debated. Rooftop ponds are another form of green roofs which are used to treat greywater. Vegetation, soil, drainage layer, roof barrier and irrigation system constitute green roof.\n\nGreen roofs serve several purposes for a building, such as absorbing rainwater, providing insulation, creating a habitat for wildlife, increasing benevolence and decreasing stress of the people around the roof by providing a more aesthetically pleasing landscape, and helping to lower urban air temperatures and mitigate the heat island effect. Green roofs are suitable for retrofit or redevelopment projects as well as new buildings and can be installed on small garages or larger industrial, commercial and municipal buildings. They effectively utilize the natural functions of plants to filter water and treat air in urban and suburban landscapes. There are two types of green roof: intensive roofs, which are thicker, with a minimum depth of , and can support a wider variety of plants but are heavier and require more maintenance, and extensive roofs, which are shallow, ranging in depth from to , lighter than intensive green roofs, and require minimal maintenance.\n\nThe term \"green roof\" may also be used to indicate roofs that use some form of green technology, such as a cool roof, a roof with solar thermal collectors or photovoltaic panels. Green roofs are also referred to as \"eco-roofs\", \"oikosteges\", \"vegetated roofs\", \"living roofs\", \"greenroofs\" and \"VCP (Horizontal Vegetated Complex Partitions)\"\n\nGreen roofs improve and reduce energy consumption. They can reduce heating by adding mass and thermal resistance value, also can reduce the heat island by increasing evapotranspiration. A 2005 study by Brad Bass of the University of Toronto showed that green roofs can also reduce heat loss and energy consumption in winter conditions. A modeling study found that adding green roofs to 50 percent of the available surfaces in downtown Toronto would cool the entire city by 0.2 to 1.4 °F (0.1 to 0.8 °C).\n\nA green roof reduces cooling (by evaporative cooling) loads on a building by fifty to ninety percent, especially if it is glassed-in so as to act as a terrarium and passive solar heat reservoir.\n\nA concentration of green roofs in an urban area can even reduce the city's average temperatures during the summer, combating the urban heat island effect. Traditional building materials soak up the sun's radiation and re-emit it as heat, making cities at least hotter than surrounding areas. On Chicago's City Hall, by contrast, which features a green roof, roof temperatures on a hot day are typically cooler than they are on traditionally roofed buildings nearby. Green roofs are becoming common in Chicago, as well as in Atlanta, Portland, and other United States cities, where their use is encouraged by regulations to combat the urban heat-island effect. Green roofs are a type of low impact development. In the case of Chicago, the city has passed codes offering incentives to builders who put green roofs on their buildings. The Chicago City Hall green roof is one of the earliest and most well-known examples of green roofs in the United States; it was planted as an experiment to determine the effects a green roof would have on the microclimate of the roof. Following this and other studies, it has now been estimated that if all the roofs in a major city were greened, urban temperatures could be reduced by as much as 7 degrees Celsius.\n\nGreen roofs can reduce stormwater runoff via water-wise gardening techniques. Green roofs play significant role in retrofitting the Low Impact Development (LID) practices in urban areas. A study presented at the Green Roofs for Healthy Cities Conference in June 2004, cited by the EPA, found water runoff was reduced by over 75% during rainstorms. See the PDF at for more information. Water is stored by the roof's substrate and then taken up by the plants, from which it is returned to the atmosphere through transpiration and evaporation.\n\nGreen roofs decrease the total amount of runoff and slow the rate of runoff from the roof. It has been found that they can retain up to 75% of rainwater, gradually releasing it back into the atmosphere via condensation and transpiration, while retaining pollutants in their soil. Many green roofs are installed to comply with local regulations and government fees, often regarding stormwater runoff management. In areas with combined sewer-stormwater systems, heavy storms can overload the wastewater system and cause it to flood, dumping raw sewage into the local waterways. Often, phosphorus and nitrogen are in this category of environmentally harmful substances even though they are stimulating to the growth of plant life and agriculture. When these substances are added to a system, it can create mass biological activity since they are considered limiting factors of plant growth and by adding more of them to a system, it allows for more plant growth. Elevation 314, a new development in Washington, D.C. uses green roofs to filter and store some of its storm water on site, avoiding the need for expensive underground sand filters to meet D.C. Department of Health storm-water regulations\n\nGreen roofs create natural habitat as part of an urban wilderness. Even in high-rise urban settings as tall as 19 stories, it has been found that green roofs can attract beneficial insects, birds, bees and butterflies. A recent list of the bee species recorded from green roofs (worldwide) highlights both the diversity of species, but also the (expected) bias towards small ground-nesting species (Hofmann and Renner, 2017). Rooftop greenery complements wild areas by providing stepping stones for songbirds, migratory birds and other wildlife facing shortages of natural habitat.\n\nGreen roofs also serve as a green wall, filtering pollutants and carbon dioxide out of the air, helping to lower rates of diseases such as asthma. They can also filter pollutants and heavy metals out of rainwater.\n\nAn additional environmental benefit of greens roofs is the ability to sequester carbon. Carbon is the main component of plant matter and is naturally absorbed by plant tissue. The carbon is stored in the plant tissue and the soil substrate through plant litter and root exudates. A study on green roofs in Michigan and Maryland found the above ground biomass and below ground substrate stored on average between 168 g C m and 107 g C m . Variations occurred among the different species of plant used. Substrate carbon content averaged 913 g C m and after the subtraction of the original carbon content the total sequestration was 378 g C m. The sequestration can be improved by changing plant species, increasing substrate depth, substrate composition, and management practices. In a study done in Michigan above ground sequestration ranged from 64 g C m to 239 g C m for S. acre and S album. Also, by increasing the substrate depth would allow for more area of carbon storage and diversify the types of plants with greater potential of carbon storage. The direct carbon sequestration techniques and methods can be measured and accounted for. Green roofs also indirectly reduce CO given off by power plants through their ability to insulate buildings. Buildings in the US account for 38% of the total carbon dioxide emissions. A model supported by the U.S. Department of Energy found a 2 percent reduction in electricity consumption and 9-11% reduction in natural gas when implementing green roofs.\n\n\nA properly designed and installed extensive green-roof system can cost $108–248/m2 ($10–23/ft2) while an intensive green roof costs $355–2368/m2 ($33–220/ft2) however, since most of the materials used to build the green roof can be salvaged it is estimated that the cost of replacing a green roof is generally one third of the initial installation costs.\n\nWith the initial cost of installing a green roof in mind, there are many financial benefits that accompany green roofing.\n\nThe main disadvantage of green roofs is that the initial cost of installing a green roof can be double that of a normal roof. Depending on what kind of green roof it is, the maintenance costs could be higher, but some types of green roof have little or no ongoing cost. Some kinds of green roofs also place higher demands on the waterproofing system of the structure, both because water is retained on the roof and due to the possibility of roots penetrating the waterproof membrane. Another disadvantage is that the wildlife they attract may include pest insects which could easily infiltrate a residential building through open windows.\n\nThe additional mass of the soil substrate and retained water places a large strain on the structural support of a building. This makes it unlikely for intensive green roofs to become widely implemented due to a lack of buildings that are able to support such a large amount of added weight as well as the added cost of reinforcing buildings to be able to support such weight. Some types of green roofs do have more demanding structural standards especially in seismic regions of the world. Some existing buildings cannot be retrofitted with certain kinds of green roof because of the weight load of the substrate and vegetation exceeds permitted static loading. The weight of a green roof caused the collapse of a large sports hall roof in Hong Kong in 2016. In the wake of the disaster numerous other green roofs around the territory were removed.\n\nGreen roofs require significantly more maintenance and maintenance energy compared to a standard roof. Standard maintenance include removing debris, controlling weeds, deadhead trimming, checking moisture levels, and fertilizing. The maintenance energy use for green roofs has many variables including: climate, intensity of rainfall, type of building, type of vegetation, and external coatings. The most significant effect comes from scarce rainfall which will increase the maintenance energy due to the watering required. During a 10-year roof maintenance cycle a house with a green roof requires more retrofit embodied energy than a house with a white roof. The individual components of a green roof have CO implications during the manufacturing process have additional implications compared to a conventional roof. The embodied energy for green roof components are CO per square meter of green roof. This value is equivalent to 6448 g C m which is significantly greater than 378 g C m \n\nBoth sod roofs and LWA-based (Lightweight Aggregates) roofs have been found to have a negative impact on the quality of their resulting runoff.\n\nGreen roofs can be categorized as intensive, semi-intensive, or extensive, depending on the depth of planting medium and the amount of maintenance they need. Extensive green roofs traditionally support 10-25 pounds of vegetation per square foot (50–120 kg/m) while intensive roofs support 80-150 pounds of vegetation per square foot (390–730 kg/m). Traditional roof gardens, which require a reasonable depth of soil to grow large plants or conventional lawns, are considered intensive because they are labour-intensive, requiring irrigation, feeding, and other maintenance. Intensive roofs are more park-like with easy access and may include anything from kitchen herbs to shrubs and small trees. Extensive green roofs, by contrast, are designed to be virtually self-sustaining and should require only a minimum of maintenance, perhaps a once-yearly weeding or an application of slow-release fertiliser to boost growth. Extensive roofs are usually only accessed for maintenance. They can be established on a very thin layer of soil (most use specially formulated composts): even a thin layer of rockwool laid directly onto a watertight roof can support a planting of \"Sedum\" species and mosses. Some green roof designs incorporate both intensive and extensive elements. To protect the roof, a waterproofing membrane is often used, which is manufactured to remain watertight in extreme conditions including constant dampness, ponding water, high and low alkaline conditions and exposure to plant roots, fungi and bacterial organisms.\n\nAdvances in green roof technology have led to the development of new systems that do not fit into the traditional classification of green roof types. Comprehensive green roofs bring the most advantageous qualities of extensive and intensive green roofs together. Comprehensive green roofs support plant varieties typically seen in intensive green roofs at the depth and weight of an extensive green roof system.\n\nAnother important distinction is between pitched green roofs and flat green roofs. Pitched sod roofs, a traditional feature of many Scandinavian buildings, tend to be of a simpler design than flat green roofs. This is because the pitch of the roof reduces the risk of water penetrating through the roof structure, allowing the use of fewer waterproofing and drainage layers.\n\nIn ancient times green roofs consisted of cave-like structures or sod roofs covered with earth and plants commonly used for agriculture, dwelling, and ceremonial purposes. These early shelters provided protection from the elements, good insulation during the winter months, and a cool location in the summer. Unfortunately for modern conveniences, these were neither waterproof nor was there any system to keep out unwanted burrowing wildlife.\nModern green roofs, which are made of a system of manufactured layers deliberately placed over roofs to support growing medium and vegetation, are a relatively new phenomenon. However, green roofs or sod roofs in northern Scandinavia have been around for centuries. The modern trend started when green roofs were developed in Germany in the 1960s, and has since spread to many countries. Today, it is estimated that about 10% of all German roofs have been “greened”.\n\nA number of European Countries have very active associations promoting green roofs, including Germany, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Norway, Italy, Austria, Hungary, Sweden, the UK, and Greece. Germany is the first country started to develope green roof systems and marketed on a large scale. The City of Linz in Austria has been paying developers to install green roofs since 1983, and in Switzerland it has been a federal law since the late 1990s. In the UK, their uptake has been slow, but a number of cities have developed policies to encourage their use, notably London and Sheffield.\n\nGreen roofs are also becoming increasingly popular in North America, although they are not as common as in some parts of Europe. Numerous North American cities offer tax incentives to developers who integrate green roofs in their buildings. Toronto and San Francisco legally mandate new buildings to include green roofs \n\nRooftop water purification is also being implemented in green roofs. These forms of green roofs are actually treatment ponds built into the rooftops. They are built either from a simple substrate (as being done in Dongtan) or with plant-based ponds (as being done by WaterWorks UK Grow System and Waterzuiveren.be Plants used include calamus, Menyanthes trifoliata, Mentha aquatica, etc.)\n\nSeveral studies have been carried out in Germany since the 1970s. Berlin is one of the most important centers of green roof research in Germany. Particularly in the last 10 years, much more research has begun. About ten green roof research centers exist in the US and activities exist in about 40 countries. In a recent study on the impacts of green infrastructure, in particular green roofs in the Greater Manchester area, researchers found that adding green roofs can help keep temperatures down, particularly in urban areas: “adding green roofs to all buildings can have a dramatic effect on maximum surface temperatures, keeping temperatures below the 1961–1990 current form case for all time periods and emissions scenarios. Roof greening makes the biggest difference…where the building proportion is high and the evaporative fraction is low. Thus, the largest difference was made in the town centers.”\n\nIndustrial brownfield sites can be valuable ecosystems, supporting rare species of plants, animals and invertebrates. Increasingly in demand for redevelopment, these habitats are under threat. \"Brown roofs\", also known as \"biodiverse roofs\", can partly mitigate this loss of habitat by covering the flat roofs of new developments with a layer of locally sourced material. Construction techniques for brown roofs are typically similar to those used to create flat green roofs, the main difference being the choice of growing medium (usually locally sourced rubble, gravel, soil, etc...) to meet a specific biodiversity objective. In Switzerland, it is common to use alluvial gravels from the foundations; in London, a mix of brick rubble and some concrete has been used. The original idea was to allow the roofs to self-colonise with plants, but they are sometimes seeded to increase their biodiversity potential in the short term. Such practices are derided by purists. The roofs are colonised by spiders and insects (many of which are becoming extremely rare in the UK as such sites are developed) and provide a feeding site for insectivorous birds. Laban, a centre for contemporary dance in London, has a brown roof specifically designed to encourage the nationally rare black redstart. A green roof, 160m above ground level, and claimed to be the highest in the UK and Europe \"and probably in the world\" to act as nature reserve, is on the Barclays Bank HQ in Canary Wharf. Designed combining the principles of green and brown roofs, it is already home to a range of rare invertebrates.\n\n2017 Award: Seeding Green Roofs for Greater Biodiversity and Lower Costs, Lincoln, NE, USA. \"Richard Sutton\"\n\n2013 Award: Green Roof Innovation Testing (GRIT) Laboratory, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. \"John H. Daniels\", Brooklyn Botanic Garden Visitors Center, Brooklyn. \"HMWhite\", and NYC Parks Green Roof: A Living Laboratory for Innovative Green Roof Design, New York, NY. \"NYC Parks\"\n\n2012 Award: Lafayette Greens: Urban Agriculture, Urban Fabric, Urban Sustainability, Detroit. \"Kenneth Weikal Landscape Architecture\"]\n\n2011 Award: Manassas Park Elementary School Landscape, Manassas Park, VA. Siteworks]\n\n2009 Award: California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, CA. \"SWA Group\", Changi Airport Terminal 3 Interior Landscape, Singapore. \"Tierra Design (S) Pte Ltd\", Corporate Headquarters, San Francisco, CA. \"OLIN\", Macallen Building, South Boston, MA. \"Landworks Studio, Inc.\", and Museo del Acero Horno3, Monterrey, Mexico. \"Surfacedesign Inc.+ Harari arquitectos\"\n\n2008 Award: Gannett/USA Today Headquarters, McLean, Virginia. Michael Vergason Landscape Architects, Ltd.\n\n2007 Award: Washington Mutual Center Roof Garden, Seattle, Washington. Phillips Farevaag Smallenberg\n\n2002 Award: Chicago City Hall Green Roof, Chicago, Illinois. David Yocca\n\nGreen roofs have been increasing in popularity in Australia over the past 10 years. Some of the early examples include the Freshwater Place residential tower in Melbourne (2002) with its Level 10 rooftop Half Acre Garden, CH2 building housing the Melbourne City Council (2006) – Australia’s first 6-star Green Star Design commercial office building as certified by the Green Building Council of Australia, and Condor Tower (2005) with a 75-square-metre lawn on the 4th floor.\n\nIn 2010, the largest Australian green roof project was announced. The Victorian Desalination Project will have a “living tapestry” of 98,000 Australian indigenous plants over a roof area spanning more than 26,000 square metres. The roof will form part of the desalination plant’s sophisticated roof system, designed to blend the building into the landscape, and provide acoustic protection, corrosion resistance, thermal control, and reduced maintenance. The green roof was designed by ASPECT Studios, ARM / pecvkvonhartel architecture, and will be installed by Fytogreen Australia.\n\nSince 2008, City Councils and influential business groups in Australia have become active promoting the benefits of green roofs. “The Blueprint to Green Roof Melbourne” is one program being run by the Committee for Melbourne.\n\nIn June 2014 ecological artist Lloyd Godman, with Stuart Jones and Grant Harris in a ground breaking experiment installed Tillandsia plants at level 92, 91, 65 and 56 on Eureka Tower. The air plants, are extremely light, grow with no soil or watering system and have survived for nearly a year.\n\nThe city of Toronto approved a by-law in May 2009 mandating green roofs on residential and industrial buildings. There is criticism from Green Roofs for Healthy Cities that the new laws are not stringent enough, since they will only apply to residential building that are a minimum of six stories high. By 31 January 2011, industrial buildings were required to render 10% or 2,000 m of their roofs green. Toronto City Hall's Podium roof was renovated to include a 32,000 square foot rooftop garden, the largest publicly accessible roof in the city. The green roof was opened to the public in June 2010. Many green roofs in Canada also use sustainable Rainwater harvesting practices.\n\nIn 2008, the Vancouver Convention Centre installed a six-acre living roof of indigenous plants and grasses on its West building, making it the largest green roof in Canada.\nThe new Canadian War Museum in Ottawa, opened in 2005, also features a grass-covered roof.\n\nDuring the renovation of the Hamilton City Hall in Hamilton, Ontario that spanned from 2007 to 2010, many efforts were taken to enhance the environmentally friendly nature of the structure, which included the addition of a grass-covered roof.\n\nSimon Fraser University's Burnaby campus contains a substantial number of green roofs.\n\nLiving green roofs have been built and grown at Saint Michael's Sustainable Community since 2012. Native plants, mostly flowers chosen for the environment, maximum shade and mass provide a colorful and functional living roof. The community has the largest number of green roofs in the country.\n\nIn Egypt, soil-less agriculture is used to grow plants on the roofs of buildings. No soil is placed directly on the roof itself, thus eliminating the need for an insulating layer; instead, plants are grown on wooden tables. Vegetables and fruit are the most popular candidates, providing a fresh, healthy source of food that is free from pesticides.\n\nA more advanced method, (aquaponics), being used experimentally in Egypt, is farming fish next to plants in a closed cycle. This allows the plants to benefit from the ammonia excreted by the fish, helping the plants to grow better and at the same time eliminating the need for changing the water for the fish, because the plants help to keep it clean by absorbing the ammonia. The fish also get some nutrients from the roots of the plants.\n\nIn Finland, green roofs are still scarce. Some experimental green roofs have been built in big cities. However, the capital city of Helsinki has published guidelines for enhancing the building of green roofs in the city. There is on-going research on the topic as the conditions in the southern Europe are very different from those in the north and knowledge acquired there can't be directly applied to colder climates. The fifth dimension - Green roofs and walls in urban areas -research program aims to produce high-level scientific and broadly applicable knowledge on optimal green roof and -wall solutions in Finland.\n\nIn France, an extensive, cable-supported green roof has been created on the International School in Lyon. Another huge green roof of roughly has been incorporated into the new museum L'Historial de la Vendée which opened in June 2006 at Les Lucs-sur-Boulogne.\n\nLong-held green roof traditions started in the early industrialization period more than 100 years ago exist in Germany. In the 1970s, green roof technology was elevated to the next level. Serious storm-water issues made cities think about innovative solutions, preferably with living plants. Modern green roof technology with high performance, lightweight materials were utilized to grow hardy vegetation even on roofs that can hardly support any additional load. In the 1980s modern green roof technology was common knowledge in Germany while it was practically unknown in any other country in the world. In Stuttgart, with one of the most innovative Department of Parks and Recreation and with the worlds oldest horticultural Universities, modern green roof technology was perfected and implemented on a large scale.\n\nWith the first green roof industry boom in Germany there were quality issues recorded. The FLL formed a committee that is focused on modern green roof technology. FLL stands for Forschungsgesellschaft Landschaftsentwicklung Landschaftsbau e.V. (FLL)or in English: The German Landscape Research, Development and Construction Society. The FLL is an independent non-profit organization. It was founded in 1975 by eight professional organizations for “the improvement of environmental conditions through the advancement and dissemination of plant research and its planned applications”. The FLL green roof working group is only one of 40 committees which have published a long list of guidelines and labor instructions. Some of these guidelines also available in English including the German FLL-Guideline for the Planning, Execution and Upkeep of Green-Roof Sites. The results of the research and synthesis done by FLL members are constantly updated and promulgated utilizing the same principles which govern the compilation of DIN standards and are published as either guiding principles or labor instructions.\n\nThe current Green Roof Guideline was published in 2011.\nToday most elements of the German FLL are part of standards and guidelines around the world (FM Global, ASTM, NRCA, SPRI etc.).\n\nFachvereinigung Bauwerksbegrünung (FBB) was founded in 1990 as the second green roof association after DDV (Deutscher Dachgaertner Verband) in 1985. FBB was founded as an open forum for manufacturers and planners, merchants and operators in 1990. The organization was born from the then-visionary idea of understanding the relationship between nature and constructions not as oppositional, but as an opportunity. Both the green roofing and conventional roofing industries are equally represented.\nThe FBB has developed to become an innovative lobbying group with a strong market presence, internationally known through its cooperation with other European associations. Today, approximately 100 member companies use the multifaceted services offered by FBB, which offers a greater degree of market expertise and competitiveness. \"Kompetenz im Markt\".\n\nToday, about 10,000,000m (or 100,000,000 square feet) of new green roofs are being constructed each year. According latest studies about ¾ of these are extensive; the last ¼ are roof gardens. The cities with the most green roofs in Germany are Berlin and Stuttgart. Surveys about the status of regulation are done by the FBB. Nearly one third of all German cities have regulations to support green-roof and rain-water technology. Green-roof research institutions are located in several cities as including Hannover, Berlin, Geisenheim and Neubrandenburg.\n\nGermany is the country with the most green roofs in the world and it is the country with the most advanced knowledge in modern green roof technology. Green roofs in Germany are part of the 2 –3 years apprentice educations system of landscaping professionals. Since green roof are common knowledge and common sense it is interesting to take a look at the – there is no need to describe projects, case studies or related research. The green roof technology was implemented before the internet age.\n\nThe Greek Ministry of Finance has now installed a green roof on the Treasury in Constitution Square in Athens. The so-called \"oikostegi\" (Greek – \"oiko\", pronounced \"eeko\", meaning building-ecological, and \"stegi\", pronounced \"staygee\", meaning roof-abode-shelter) was inaugurated in September, 2008. Studies of the thermodynamics of the roof in September 2008 concluded that the thermal performance of the building was significantly affected by the installation. In further studies, in August 2009, energy savings of 50% were observed for air conditioning in the floor directly below the installation. The ten-floor building has a total floor space of 1.4 hectares. The oikostegi covers 650 m, equalling 52% of the roof space and 8% of the total floor space. Despite this, energy savings totalling €5,630 per annum were recorded, which translates to a 9% saving in air conditioning and a 4% saving in heating bills for the whole building. An additional observation and conclusion of the study was that the thermodynamic performance of the oikostegi had improved as biomass was added over the 12 months between the first and second study. This suggests that further improvements will be observed as the biomass increases still further. The study also stated that while measurements were being made by thermal cameras, a plethora of beneficial insects were observed on the roof, such as butterflies, honey bees and ladybirds. Obviously this was not the case before installation. Finally, the study suggested that both the micro-climate and biodiversity of Constitution Square, in Athens, Greece had been improved by the oikostegi.\n\nSod roofs are frequently found on traditional farmhouses and farm buildings in Iceland.\n\nSwitzerland has one of Europe's oldest green roofs, created in 1914 at the Moos lake water-treatment plant, Wollishofen, Zürich. Its filter tanks have of flat concrete roofs. To keep the interior cool and prevent bacterial growth in the filtration beds, a drainage layer of gravel and a 15-cm (6-in) layer of soil was spread over the roofs, which had been waterproofed with asphalt. A meadow developed from seeds already present in the soil; it is now a haven for many plant species, some of which are now otherwise extinct in the district, most notably 6,000 \"Orchis morio\" (green-winged orchid). More recent Swiss examples can be found at Klinikum 1 and Klinikum 2, the Cantonal Hospitals of Basel, and the Sihlpost platform at Zürich's main railway station.\n\nWhat is claimed to be the world's first green roof botanical garden was set up in Augustenborg, Malmö in May 1999. The International Green Roof Institute (IGRI) opened to the public in April 2001 as a research station and educational facility. (It has since been renamed the Scandinavian Green Roof Institute (SGRI), in view of the increasing number of similar organisations around the world.) Green roofs are well-established in Malmö: the Augustenborg housing development near the SGRI botanical garden incorporates green roofs and extensive landscaping of streams, ponds, and soak-ways between the buildings to deal with storm water run-off.\n\nThe new Bo01 urban residential development (in the Västra Hamnen (Western Harbour) close to the foot of the Turning Torso office and apartment block, designed by Santiago Calatrava) is built on the site of old shipyards and industrial areas, and incorporates many green roofs.\n\nIn 2012, the shopping mall Emporia with its 27,000 square metre roof garden, was opened. The size of the roof garden is approximately equivalent to 4 soccer fields, which makes it one of the biggest green roof parks in Europe that is accessible to the public.\n\nIn 2003 English Nature concluded that 'in the UK policy makers have largely ignored green roofs'. However, British examples can be found with increasing frequency. The Kensington Roof Gardens are a notable early roof garden which was built above the former Derry & Toms department store in Kensington, London in 1938. More recent examples can be found at the University of Nottingham Jubilee Campus, and in London at Sainsbury's Millennium Store in Greenwich, the Horniman Museum and at Canary Wharf. The Ethelred Estate, close to the River Thames in central London, is the British capital's largest roof-greening project to date. Toxteth in Liverpool is also a candidate for a major roof-greening project.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, intensive green roofs are sometimes used in built-up city areas where residents and workers often do not have access to gardens or local parks. Extensive green roofs are sometimes used to blend buildings into rural surroundings, for example by Rolls-Royce Motor Cars, who has one of the biggest green roofs in Europe (covering more than 32,000 m on their factory at Goodwood, West Sussex.\n\nThe University of Sheffield has created a Green Roof Centre of Excellence and conducted research, particularly in a UK context, into green roofs. Dr Nigel Dunnett of Sheffield University published a UK-centric book about green roofing in 2004 (updated 2008).\n\nFort Dunlop has the largest green roof in the UK since its redevelopment between 2004 and 2006.\n\nThe UK also boasts one of the most innovative food preparation facilities in Europe, the Kanes salad factory in Evesham. It is topped with a wildflower roof featuring nearly 90 species of wildflower and natural grasses. The seed mix was prepared in consultation with leading ecologists to try and minimise the impact on the local environment. The pre grown wildflower blanket sits on top of a standing seam roof and is combined with solar panels to create an eco friendly finish to the entire factory. The development also won the 2013 National Federation of Roofing Contractors Sustainable Roof Award for Green Roofing.\n\nOne of the largest expanses of extensive green roof is to be found in the US, at Ford Motor Company's River Rouge Plant, Dearborn, Michigan, where of assembly plant roofs are covered with sedum and other plants, designed by William McDonough; the $18 million assembly avoids the need of what otherwise would be $50 million worth of mechanical treatment facilities on site. Built over Millennium Park Garage, Chicago's Millennium Park is considered one of the largest intensive green roofs. Other well-known American examples include Chicago’s City Hall and the former Gap headquarters, now the headquarters of YouTube, in San Bruno, CA. The U.S. military has two major green roofs in the Washington, D.C. area: the U.S. Coast Guard headquarters () and the Pentagon ().\n\nAn early green-roofed building (completed in 1971) is the Weyerhaeuser Corporate Headquarters building in Federal Way, Washington. Its 5-story office roof system comprises a series of stepped terraces covered in greenery. From the air, the building blends into the landscape.\n\nThe largest green roof in New York City was installed in midtown Manhattan atop the United States Postal Service's Morgan Processing and Distribution Center. Construction on the project began in September 2008, and was finished and dedicated in July 2009. Covered in native vegetation and having an expected lifetime of fifty years, this green roof will not only save the USPS approximately $30,000 a year in heating and cooling costs, but will also significantly reduce the amount of storm water contaminants entering the municipal water system.\nIn 2001, atop Chicago City Hall, the roof gardens were completed, serving as a pilot project to assess the impact green roofs would have on the heat island effect in urban areas, rainwater runoff, and the effectiveness of differing types of green roofs and plant species for Chicago's climate. Although the rooftop is not normally accessible to the public, it is visually accessible from 33 taller buildings in the area. The garden consists of 20,000 plants of more than 150 species, including shrubs, vines and two trees. The green roof design team was headed by the Chicago area firm Conservation Design Forum in conjunction with noted \"green\" architect William McDonough. With an abundance of flowering plants on the rooftop, beekeepers harvest approximately of honey each year from hives installed on the rooftop. Tours of the green roof are by special arrangement only. Chicago City Hall Green Roof won merit design award of the American Society of Landscape Architecture (ASLA) competition in 2002.\n\nThe of outdoor space on the seventh floor of Zeckendorf Towers, formerly an undistinguished rooftop filled with potted plants, make up the largest residential green roof in New York. The roof was transformed in 2010 as part of Mayor Michael Bloomberg's NYC Green Infrastructure campaign, and supposedly serves to capture some of the rain that falls on it rather than letting it run off and contribute to flooding in the adjacent Union Square subway station.\n\nSome cost can also be attributed to maintenance. Extensive green roofs have low maintenance requirements but they are generally not maintenance free. German research has quantified the need to remove unwanted seedlings to approximately 6 seconds/m/year. Maintenance of green roofs often includes fertilization to increase flowering and succulent plant cover. If aesthetics are not an issue, fertilization and maintenance are generally not needed. Extensive green roofs should only be fertilized with controlled-release fertilizers in order to avoid pollution of the storm water. Conventional fertilizers should never be used on extensive vegetated roofs. German studies have approximated the nutrient requirement of vegetated roofs to 5 gN/m. It is also important to use a substrate that does not contain too many available nutrients. The FLL guidelines specify maximum-allowable nutrient content of substrates.\n\nOne of the oldest American green roofs in existence is atop the Rockefeller Center in Manhattan, built in 1936. This roof was primarily an aesthetic undertaking for the enjoyment of the center's workers, and remains to this day, having been refurbished in 1986.\n\nWith the passage of Denver's Green Roof Initiative in the November 2017 elections, effective January 2018, new buildings or existing buildings meeting the initiative's thresholds are required to have rooftop gardens, optionally combined with solar photovoltaic panels.\n\n\n106. Hofmann, M., and S. S. Renner. 2017. Bee species recorded between 1992 and 2017 from green roofs in Asia, Europe, and North America, with key characteristics and open research questions. Apidologie, 19 Dec 2017 DOI: 10.1007/s13592-017-0555-x\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44222715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44222715", "title": "Guichen Bay Conservation Park", "text": "Guichen Bay Conservation Park\n\nGuichen Bay Conservation Park is a protected area in the Australian state of South Australia overlooking Guichen Bay located in the gazetted locality of Mount Benson about north of the town centre of Robe. While protected status was first conferred to the land in 1967, its current status as a conservation park under the \"National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972\" was proclaimed in 1972. The following statements sourced respectively from the conservation park’s management plan and the now-discontinued Register of the National Estate summarises its conservation significance:The Park contains some of the Guichen Bay beach ridge plain; a classic example of Holocene beach ridge development of worldwide interest which records the naturalhistory of the Bay over the last 7000 years.Because of its inaccessibility this Park is rarely visited by people. The fairly dense coastal heath provides a home for the secretive DASYORNIS BROADBENTI (rufous bristle bird), while along the seashore dotterels and oystercatchers are common. \nThe conservation park is classified as an IUCN Category III protected area.\n\n"}
{"id": "90624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90624", "title": "Guinee", "text": "Guinee\n\nIn Vodou, Guinee is the spirit world. It is where the souls of the dead live. It is controlled by the loa Baron Samedi, believed to be the symbol of life and death. \n\nThere are seven gates through which Guinee can be entered. They are as follows:\n\n\nThe spirits of the dead have to pass through these seven gates to be reunited to the already dead ones. \n\nMany practitioners of this faith believe that these seven gates are physically present in different areas in New Orleans. \n"}
{"id": "6814710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6814710", "title": "Happy hunting ground", "text": "Happy hunting ground\n\nThe happy hunting ground was the name given to the concept of the afterlife by several of the Great Plains tribes of American Indians, including the Oglala Lakota. It is an afterlife conceived of as a paradise in which hunting is plentiful and game unlimited.\n\nLakota people believe that after death, the spirit of the deceased person goes to the happy hunting ground. This belief corresponds with the general Sioux belief that everything has a spirit; including trees, rocks, rivers and almost every natural entity. This therefore leads to the existence of an afterlife. The Indian tribes had many spiritual dances such as the Sun Dance and the Ghost Dance, which directly refers to the spirits of the dead returning to life.\n\nThe name indicates the characteristics of this afterlife tradition: the happy hunting ground resembled the living world, but with much better weather and animals such as rabbit, deer and bison that were both plentiful and easy to hunt.\n\n"}
{"id": "23000023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23000023", "title": "ISO 3166-2:HM", "text": "ISO 3166-2:HM\n\nISO 3166-2:HM is the entry for Heard Island and McDonald Islands in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently no ISO 3166-2 codes are defined in the entry for Heard Island and McDonald Islands. The territory has no defined subdivisions.\n\nHeard Island and McDonald Islands is officially assigned the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code .\n\n"}
{"id": "17419583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17419583", "title": "ISO 3166-2:MM", "text": "ISO 3166-2:MM\n\nISO 3166-2:MM is the entry for Myanmar in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Myanmar, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 7 regions, 7 states, and 1 union territory.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Myanmar. The second part is two digits:\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49341703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49341703", "title": "Imre Demhardt", "text": "Imre Demhardt\n\nImre Josef Demhardt is an historian of cartography and Garrett professor at the University of Texas at Arlington.\n"}
{"id": "470378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=470378", "title": "Index of Fiji-related articles", "text": "Index of Fiji-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) about people, places, things, and concepts related to or originating from Fiji, include:\n\n2day FM - 3G\n\n1953 Suva earthquake\n\n1963 South Pacific Games - 1964 Fiji rugby union tour of Europe and Canada - 1968 New Zealand rugby union tour of Australia and Fiji - 1969 Wales rugby union tour\n\n1972 Australia rugby union tour of New Zealand and Fiji - 1973 England rugby union tour of Fiji and New Zealand - 1974 Fiji rugby union tour of New Zealand - 1974 New Zealand rugby union tour of Australia and Fiji - 1976 Fiji rugby union tour of Australia - 1976 Ireland rugby union tour of New Zealand and Fiji - 1977 British Lions tour to New Zealand - 1979 England rugby union tour of Japan, Fiji and Tonga - 1979 France rugby union tour of Fiji and New Zealand - 1979 New Zealand rugby union tour of Australia - 1979 South Pacific Games\n\n1980 Australia rugby union tour of Fiji - 1980 Fiji rugby union tour of Argentina - 1980 Fiji rugby union tour of New Zealand - 1980 Italy rugby union tour of USA, New Zealand and South Pacific - 1980 New Zealand rugby union tour of Australia and Fiji - 1980 OFC U-20 Championship - 1982 Fiji rugby union tour of Great Britain and Canada - 1982 Pacific Tri-Nations - 1984 Australia rugby union tour of Fiji - 1984 Fiji rugby union tour of Australia - 1984 New Zealand rugby union tour of Fiji - 1985 Fiji rugby union tour of Australia - 1985 Fiji rugby union tour of British Isles - 1986 Wales rugby union tour of the South Pacific - 1988 England rugby union tour of Australia and Fiji - 1988 OFC U-20 Championship - 1989 Fiji rugby union tour in Southern Hemisphere - 1989 Fiji rugby union tour of Europe - 1989 Melanesia Cup\n\n1990 Fiji rugby union tour of Hong Kong and France - 1990 Oceania Athletics Championships - 1990 OFC U-20 Championship - 1991 England rugby union tour of Australia and Fiji - 1993 Scotland rugby union tour of the South Pacific - 1994 OFC U-20 Championship - 1994 Pacific Cup - 1994 Wales rugby union tour - 1995 Canada rugby union tour of Fiji and New Zealand - 1995 Fiji rugby union tour of Wales and Ireland - 1996 Fiji rugby union tour of Hong Kong - 1996 Fiji rugby union tour of New Zealand and South Africa - 1996 Great Britain Lions tour - 1997 Fiji rugby union tour of New Zealand - 1997 Oceania Youth Athletics Championships - 1998 France rugby union tour of Argentina and Fiji - 1998 Scotland rugby union tour of Oceania - 1999 Oceania Club Championship\n\n2000 Italy rugby union tour - 2001 Fiji rugby union tour of Italy and France - 2002 Fiji rugby union tour of British Isles - 2000 Melanesia Cup - 2001 EAP Under-19 Cricket Trophy - 2001 Melanesian Championships in Athletics - 2002 OFC U-20 Championship - 2003 Fiji rugby union tours - 2003 South Pacific Games - 2004 Oceania Swimming Championships - 2004 OFC Women's Olympic Qualifying Tournament - 2004 Pacific Islanders rugby union tour - 2005 Fiji rugby union tour of Europe - 2006 in Fiji - 2006 Italy rugby union tour - 2006 Pacific Islanders rugby union tour - 2007 Colonial Cup - 2007 in Fiji - 2007 IRB Pacific Nations Cup - 2008 IRB Pacific Nations Cup - 2008 Oceanian Futsal Championship - 2008 OFC Men's Olympic Football Tournament - 2008 Pacific Islanders rugby union tour of Europe - 2009 Fiji earthquake - 2009 Oceanian Futsal Championship - 2009 Pacific Cup - 2009 IRB Pacific Nations Cup\n\n2010 Oceanian Futsal Championship - 2010 IRB Pacific Nations Cup - 2010 Pacific Rugby Cup - 2011 in Fijian football - 2011 Oceanian Futsal Championship -2011 IRB Pacific Nations Cup - 2011 Pacific Rugby Cup - 2012 Fiji floods (January) - 2012 IRB Pacific Nations Cup - 2012 Pacific Rugby Cup - 2012 Scotland rugby union tour of Australia, Fiji and Samoa - 2013 end-of-year rugby union internationals - 2013 International Rugby Union matches - 2013 IRB Pacific Nations Cup - 2013 Oceania Sevens Championship - 2013 OFC U-20 Championship - 2013–14 OFC Champions League - 2013 Pacific Rugby Cup - 2014 end-of-year rugby union internationals - 2014 Fiji National Football League - 2014 Hayne/Mannah Cup - 2014 in Fiji - 2014 IRB Pacific Nations Cup - 2014 OFC U-20 Championship - 2014–15 OFC Champions League - 2014 Pacific Rugby Cup - 2015 World Rugby Pacific Challenge - 2015 World Rugby Pacific Nations Cup\n\nAcacia mathuataensis - Andrew ACHARI - Acolastodes - Rodney ACRAMAN - Acritocera negligens - Acsmithia vitiense - Adi - Adi Cakobau School - Adi Da - James AH KOY - Rachel AH KOY - Gaffar AHMED - Colin AIKMAN - Air Fiji - Air Pacific - Air Pacific destinations - Airlines of Fiji, list of - Airlines of Oceania, list of - - Airports in Fiji, list of - Rosy AKBAR - Shamima ALI - Danielle ALAKIJA - Allanshaw - William ALLARDYCE - Allanshaw (ship) - Albert Park - Alliance Party - All Nationals Congress - Alsmithia - - Charles Freer ANDREWS - Angustalius malacellus - Felix M. ANTHONY - ANZ (Fiji) - ANZ National Stadium - Appeal Court - Harry APTED - William APTED - Aquaculture in Fiji - Argo (1800) - Argyrogramma signata - Kaminieli ARIA - Narendra ARJUN - Armed Forces (Fiji) - Arno (ship) - Millicent AROI - Kamlesh Kumar ARYA - Arya Pratinidhi Sabha of Fiji - Arya Samaj in Fiji - Arya Pratinidhi Sabha of Fiji - Assembly of Christian Churches in Fiji - Attack of the Sabretooth - Attorney-General (Fiji) - Atu - Atuna elliptica - Australia-Fiji relations - Avengers of the Reef - Alvin AVINESH - Avon (ship) - Azure-crested flycatcher\n\nAglaia amplexicaulis - Aglaia archboldiana - Aglaia basiphylla - Aglaia evansensis - Aglaia gracilis - Aglaia fragilis - Aglaia unifolia - Aglaia vitiensis\n\nAhmed ALI - Amjad ALI - Joy ALI - Junior Farzan ALI - Naziah ALI\n\nAstronidium degeneri - Astronidium floribundum - Astronidium inflatum - Astronidium kasiense - Astronidium lepidotum - Astronidium macranthum - Astronidium pallidiflorum - Astronidium robustum - Astronidium saulae - Astronidium storckii - Astronidium tomentosum - Astronidium victoriae\n\nAthletics at the 1963 South Pacific Games - Athletics at the 1979 South Pacific Games - Athletics at the 2003 South Pacific Games - Athletics Fiji\n\nBa District - Ba F.C. - Ba Province - Ba River - Ba Town - Jale BABA - Tupeni BABA - Anand BABLA - Seremaia BAI - Atu Emberson BAIN - Frank BAINIMARAMA - Ratu Meli BAINIMARAMA - Thomas BAKER - Parveen BALA - Mark BALDWIN - Qoriniasi BALE - Aminio BALEDROKADROKA - Jone BALEDROKADROKA - Pita BALEITOGA - Matila BALEKANA - Panapasa BALEKANA - Ballin - Banaba - Bangladesh-Fiji relations - Joji BANUVE - Barking imperial pigeon - Tia BARRETT - Sir Cecil BARTON - Bar-winged rail - Bati - Iliseva BATIBASAGA - Batiki - Makelesi BATIMALA - Battle of the Giants - Battle of Kaba - Bau District - Bau Fijian - Bau Island - Solomone BAUSERAU - Timoci BAVADRA - Bayard (ship) - Hodgy BEATS - Bryan BEAUMONT - Mick BEDDOES - Nadira BEGG - William J. BELCHER - Belgium, Fiji Embassy to - Beqa - Berar (Ship) - Henry Spencer BERKELEY - Bete - Sharon BHAGWAN-ROLLS - Ahmed BHAMJI - Hiren BHARTU - Veena BHATNAGAR - Bhawani Dayal Arya College - BIG MAGIC - BIG Sangeet - Birds of Fiji, list of - Blackbirding - Waqa BLAKE - Peter BLANCHARD - Blastobasis lososi - Bligh Roosters - Bligh Water - Alexander BLOKHIN - Sireli BOBO - Boda River - Bodybuilding in Fiji - Meli BOGILEKA - Mosese BOGISA - Ratu Ovini BOKINI - Asaeli BOKO - Kelemedi BOLA - Samu BOLA - James BOLABIU - Jimi BOLAKORO - Filimoni BOLAVUCU - Filipe BOLE - Ratu Meli BOLOBOLO - Boot Camp - Bose Levu Vakaturaga - Peni BOTIKI - Botyodes asialis - Bounty Rum - Derek BOYER - - Nick BRADLEY-QALILAWA - Brachylophus - Brachylophus bulabula - Inoke BRECKTERFIELD - Gerard BRENNAN - British Peer (ship) - British Western Pacific Territories - Richard BROADBRIDGE - George BROWN - Joseph BROWNE - Bruce (ship) - Jabez BRYCE - Bua - Bua F.C. - Bua River - Matelita BUADROMO - Virisila BUADROMO - Vitori BUATAVA - Buca Bay - Buca River - Bucaisau River - BUIVARORO - Buke Levu, Mount - Mirza Namrud BUKSH - M. S. BUKSH - Jayson BUKUYA - I. L. BULA - Bula FM - Bula Quo! - Kevueli BULAMAINAIVALU - Mitieli BULANAUCA - Bulbul tarang - Kelemedi BULEWA - Sakiusa BULICOKOCOKO - Bulou - Bulu - Joeli BULU - Che BUNCE - Poseci BUNE - Bure - Burebasaga Confederacy - Burotu - Seremaia BUROTU - Sydney Charles BURT - Sakeasi BUTADROKA - Trevor BUTLER - Juan Carlos BUZZETTI\n\nBalaka longirostris - Balaka macrocarpa - Balaka microcarpa - Balaka pauciflora - Balaka seemannii - Balaka streptostachys\n\nCabinet of Fiji - Tabua CAKACAKA - Setefano CAKAU - Cakaudrove - Caloptilia hercoscelis - Caloptilia soyella - Junior Tomasi CAMA - Tomasi CAMA - Camakau - Reagan CAMPBELL-GILLARD - Alipate CARLILE - Carpenter's Tower, Fiji - Maurice CASEY - Cast Away - Castaway Island - Geoffrey CASTON - Cathedral Secondary School - Adi Asenaca CAUCAU - Rupeni CAUCAUNIBUCA - Bill CAVUBATI - Tevita CAVUBATI - Viliame CAVUBATI - Orisi CAVUILATI - Joeli CAWAKI - Central Division - Coastal Stallions - Ceva-i-Ra - Chairman of the Great Council of Chiefs - Nathaniel Chalmers - Amy CHAMBERS - Champion versus Champion - Charlie CHARTERS - Mahendra CHAUDHRY - Rajendra CHAUDHRY - Chenab (ship) - Venkanna CHETTY - Chief Justice (Fiji) - Chief Magistrate (Fiji) - Chief Minister (Fiji) - Seimata CHILIA - China-Fiji relations - Chinese in Fiji - Christian Democratic Alliance (Fiji) - David Ariu CHRISTOPHER - Church involvement in Fiji coups - Churchill Park (Lautoka) - Cibaciba and Drakulu - Cibi - Cicia - Cicia Airport - Cities and towns in Fiji, list of - Citizens' Constitutional Forum - Civil Aviation Authority of Fiji - Petero CIVONICEVA - Fielding CLARKE - Clinostigma exorrhizum - Clyde (ship) - Coalition of Independent Nationals - Coastal Stallions - Cobia Island - Coins of the Fijian dollar - Coins of the Fijian pound - Ratu Tu'uakitau COKANAUTO - Joketani COKANASIGA - Collared lory - John COLLINS - Colo Wars - Colo-i-Suva Forest Reserve - Colonial Cup - Colonial Sugar Refining Company (Fiji) - Colonial War Memorial Hospital - Colonial Fiji - Commissioner of Police (Fiji) - Commonwealth Pacific Cable System - Communal constituencies - Communications in Fiji - Condica conducta - Confederation of Public Sector Unions - Constituency Boundaries Commission - Conus alexandrei - Conway Reef - Robin COOKE - Leslie COPELAND - Coqeloa - Coral Coast - Dan COSTELLO Snr - Daniel Rae COSTELLO - Council of Rotuma - Counter Revolutionary Warfare Unit - Court of Appeal - Cricket at the 2003 South Pacific Games - Crimson shining parrot - Ron CROCOMBE - Cuba–Oceania relations - Culture of Fiji - Curu Mai - Paulini CURUENAVULI - Cynometra falcata - Cynometra insularis - Cyphosperma tanga - Cyphosperma trichospadix - Cytaea koronivia - Cytaea nausori - Cytaea vitiensis\n\nRatu Sir Edward CAKOBAU - Ratu Epenisa CAKOBAU - Ratu George CAKOBAU - Ratu Sir George CAKOBAU - Adi Litia CAKOBAU - Ratu Seru Epenisa CAKOBAU - Adi Samanunu CAKOBAU-TALAKULI\n\nAmi CHAND - Dewan CHAND - Dinesh CHAND - Ganesh CHAND - Pramod CHAND - Pratap CHAND - Vijay CHAND\n\nAmi CHANDRA - Baba Ram CHANDRA - Rajesh CHANDRA - Ram CHANDRA\n\nCyclone Ami - Cyclone Bola - Cyclone Cilla - Cyclone Cliff - Cyclone Bebe - Cyclone Daman - Cyclone Eric - Cyclone Evan - Cyclone Fran - Cyclone Gavin - Cyclone Gene - Cyclone Ian - Cyclone Keli - Cyclone Kina - Cyclone Lusi - Cyclone Mick - Cyclone Nigel - Cyclone Zoe - Cyclone Wilma - Cyclone Vania - Cyclone Tomas - Cyclone Oli - Cyclone Paula - Cyclone Susan - Cyclone Tam (2006) - Cyclone Tomas\n\nDacrycarpus imbricatus - Daewoo Precision Industries K2 - Daily Post (Fiji) - Keni DAKUIDREKETI - Joe DAKUITOGA - Dakuwaqa - Dama River - Dance in Rotuma - Danube (ship) - Quazi Golam DASTGIR - Daucina - Jone DAUNIVUCU - Waisea DAVETA - Samuela DAVETAWALU - Vilimaina DAVU - Davuilevu - Dawacumu River - Dawasamu River - Daylight saving time in Fiji - Noor DEAN - Deans Trophy - Degei - Apisalome DEGEI - Degeneriaceae - Jone DELAI - DELAILOA - Nelson DELAILOMALOMA - Iliesa DELANA - Vilimoni DELASAU - Demographics of Fiji - Denarau Island - Roshika DEO - Vishnu DEO - Andrew DEOKI - Ram Narayan DEOKI - Deorbit of Mir - Derek DERENALAGI - James Herman DE RICCI - Desmethoxyyangonin - Sir William DES VŒUX - Deuba River - DEUCE - Graham DEWES - Dhantal - Digicel Cup - Laisa DIGITAKI - Dihydrokavain - Dihydromethysticin - Ratu Josefa DIMURI - Larry Miles DINGER - Diospyros fasciculosa - Diplomatic missions in Fiji, list of - Diplomatic missions of Fiji, list of - Diplomatic relations of Fiji - Director of Public Prosecutions (Fiji) - Iowane DIVAVESI - Manoa DOBUI - Manilal DOCTOR - Dodonu ni Taukei - Keni DOIDOI - Vyacheslav DOLGOV - Dominion of Fiji - Isoa DOMOLAILAI - Sam DOMONI - William Earnest DONNELLY - Alifereti DOVIVERATA - Brian Andre DOYLE - Drakaniwai River - Dranivia - Misaele DRAUNIBAKA - Savenaca DRAUNIDALO - Tupou DRAUNIDALO - Dravuni - Drawa River - Dreketi F.C. - Dreketi River - Pita DRITI - Asaeli DRIU - Moses DRIVER - Ema DRUAVESI - Hannah DUDLEY - Dudley High School - Alfred DUFTY - Colin DUFTY - Francis Herbert DUFTY - Adi Litia Mara DUGDALE - Maciu DUNADAMU - Shanti DUT - Yogendra DUTT - Iliesa DUVULOCO - Lagi DYER - Adi Senimili DYER\n\nEast Fijian languages - Eastern Division - Fred J. ECKERT - Economy of Fiji - Lorna EDEN - Thomas EICHELBAUM - Chandra EKANAYAKE - Paul ELAISA - Elbe (ship) - Electoral system of Fiji - Rob ELDER - Ems (ship) - Enterr 10 - Eori - Pene ERENIO - Albert EHRHARDT - Erne (ship) - Essential National Industries (Employment) Decree 2011 - Eublemma anachoresis - European Union, Fiji Mission to - Arthur EUSTACE - Ivor EVANS - Kane EVANS - Excite Truck - - Executive Council (Fiji)\n\nElections in Fiji (List); also separate articles: 1963 - 1966 - 1968 (byelections) - 1972 - March 1977 - September 1977 - 1982 - 1987 - 1992 - 1994 - 1999 - 2001 - 2006 - 2014\n\n.fj - Fagraea gracilipes - Fakpure - John Neil FALVEY - Famous Fijians - Fara (Rotuman festivity) - Fazilka (ship) - FBC TV - Federal Council of Australasia - Federation of Cane Growers - Festivals in Fiji - Maurice FENN - Ficus obliqua - Peni FINAU - First Fiji Expedition - Fish on stamps of Fiji, list of - Flag of Fiji - Flaming Teeth - Flavokavain - Flavokavain A - Flavokavain B - Flavokavain C - FM96 - Arthur FLETCHER - Flora and fauna of Fiji - Football at the 1963 South Pacific Games - Football at the 1979 South Pacific Games - Football in Fiji - Football clubs in Fiji, list of - Anthony FORD - Foreign Ministers of Fiji - Foreign relations of Fiji - Charles Rossiter FORWOOD - Fossiliferous stratigraphic units in Fiji, list of - Peter FOSTER - Sir Robert Sidney FOSTER - Kenneth FRANZHEIM II - Bernie FRASER - Brooke FRASER - Robert FRENCH - Sir Brian FREESTON - Ngaire FUATA - Fulaga - Fultala (ship) - John Edwin FULTON - Fulton College - Don FURNER - Mati FUSI - Futsal in Fiji\n\nDaniel FATIAKI - Fred FATIAKI - John FATIAKI - Ravai FATIAKI - Sarafu FATIAKI\n\nFiji Airways - Fiji Association of Sports and National Olympic Committee - Fiji and the United Nations - {Fiji at the Empire and Commonwealth Games: 1938 - 1950 - 1954 - 1958 - 1962 - 1974 - 1978 - 1982 - 2006 - 2014} - {Fiji at the Olympics: 1956 - 1960 - 1968 - 1972 - 1976 - Fiji at the 1984 Summer Olympics - 1988 - 1988 (Winter Olympics) - 1992 - 1994 (Winter Olympics) - 1996 - 2000 - 2002 (Winter Olympics) - 2004 - Fiji at the 2008 Summer Olympics - 2010 (Youth Olympics) - Fiji at the 2012 Summer Olympics - Fiji at the 2016 Summer Olympics} - {Fiji at the Paralympics: 1964 - 1976 - 1996 - 2000 - 2004 - 2008 - 2012 (Paralympics)} - Fiji at the 2011 Pacific Games - Fiji at the 2009 World Championships in Athletics - Fiji at the 2011 World Championships in Athletics - Fiji at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships - Fiji at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics - Fiji at the 2014 Summer Youth Olympics - Fiji at the 2015 Pacific Games - Fiji at the Rugby World Cup - Fiji banded iguana - Fiji Barbarians - Fiji Bitter - Fiji Broadcasting Corporation - Fiji bush warbler - Fiji Cane Growers Association - Fiji Chess Federation - Fiji Commerce Commission - Fiji Constitutional Crisis of 1977 - Fiji Constitutional Crisis of 2009 - Fiji crested iguana - Fiji Cycling Association - Fiji Davis Cup team - Fiji Democratic Party - Fiji Fashion Week - Fiji Fed Cup team - Fiji Financial Intelligence Unit - FijiFirst - Fiji Focus - Fiji Football Association - Fiji Football Association Cup Tournament - Fiji Football Association Cup Tournament - Fiji Football Referees Association - Fiji–France Maritime Delimitation Agreement - Fiji-France relations - Fiji Girl Guides Association - Fiji goshawk - Fiji Hindi - Fiji Human Rights Commission - Fiji Independence Medal - Fiji Independent Commission Against Corruption - Fiji-India relations - Fiji Indian - Fiji Indian National Congress - Fiji Indian organisations - Fiji-Indonesia relations - Fiji Infantry Regiment - Fiji Institute of Technology - Fiji Intelligence Services - Fiji International - Fiji Islands Council of Trade Unions - Fiji Labour Party - Fiji Law Reform Commission - Fiji Law Society - Fiji Live - Fiji-Malaysia relations - Fiji men's national field hockey team - Fiji men's national volleyball team - Fiji Meteorological Service - Fiji Museum - Fiji Muslim League - Fiji national basketball team - Fiji national beach soccer team - Fiji national football team results - Fiji national futsal team - Fiji national netball team - Fiji National Rugby League - Fiji National Rugby League Competition - Fiji national rugby league team - Fiji national rugby union players, list of - Fiji national rugby union team - Fiji national cricket team - Fiji national football team - Fiji national under-17 football team - Fiji national under-19 cricket team - Fiji national under-20 football team - Fiji national under-20 rugby union team - Fiji National University - Fiji Native Tribal Congress - Fiji-New Zealand relations - Fiji One - Fiji parrotfinch - Fiji petrel - Fiji Rugby Union - Fiji-Russia relations - Fiji Samachar - Fiji Sanatan Society of Alberta - Fiji School of Medicine - Fiji Scouts Association - Fiji snake - Fiji-Solomon Islands relations - Fiji-South Korea relations - Fiji Sports Council - Fiji Sugar Corporation - Fiji Sun - Fiji Television - Fiji Times - Fiji-Tonga relations - Fiji Trades Union Congress - Fiji-Tuvalu relations - Fiji Tuwawa - Fiji United Freedom Party - Fiji-United States relations - Fiji Village - Fiji Warriors - Fiji water - Fiji Week - Fiji Week, 2004 - Fiji Week, 2005 - Fiji whistler - Fiji white-eye - Fiji Women's Crisis Centre - Fiji women's national basketball team - Fiji women's national football team - Fiji women's national rugby union team\n\nFijian Affairs Ministers (list) - (Fijian) Alliance Party - Fijian American - Fijian Association - Fijian Association Party (FAP) - Fijian Australian - Fijian Battalion - Fijian dollar - Fijian electoral system - Fijian food - Fijian Football League - Fijian honours system - Fijian Indian diaspora - Fijian language - Fijian mercenaries in Bougainville - Fijian military unrest in 2006 - Fijian monkey-faced bat - Fijian naming conventions - Fijian Nationalist Party - Fijian passport - Fijian people (ethnic group) - Fijian politicians, list of - Fijian records in swimming, list of - Fijian sportspeople, list of - Fijian submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, list of - Fijian pound - Fijians in the United Kingdom -\n\nFiji coups of 1987 - {Fiji coup of 2000: Timeline - Mutinies - Aftermath - Investigations - Ratu Mara's removal - Alleged plot against Ratu Iloilo - Allegations - Trials - Court Martial - Military unrest} - Fiji coup of 2006 - Fiji Court of Appeal - {Fiji crisis of 2005-2006: Timeline - Baledrokadroka incident - Reaction} - Fiji coup of 2006\n\nBill GADOLO - Gagaja - Galoa Island - Galogalo River - Jonetani GALUINADI - Ganges (1861) - Ganges (1882) - Adi Ateca GANILAU - Bernadette GANILAU - Ratu Epeli GANILAU - Ratu Sir Penaia GANILAU - Joseph Hector GARRICK - Sir Ronald GARVEY - Garvey Park - Anthony GATES - Gau Airport - Gau Island - Thomas GAULT - Maseikula GAUNAVOU - Jai GAWANDER - Viliame GAVOKA - Gay rights in Fiji - Gedi - Geissois imthurnii - Geissois stipularis - Geissois superba - General Electors - General Voters Party - Geography of Fiji - Yash GHAI - Giant Fijian long-horned beetle - Giant honeyeater - Jono GIBBES - Gilbertese language - Girl of the Port - Girmit Heritage Party - Girmit Soccer Tournament - Gmelina vitiensis - God Bless Fiji (National Anthem) - Gold FM - Golden dove - Gone Dau language - Vereniki GONEVA - Isaia GONEWAI - Fabian GOODALL - Sir John GORRIE - John GOSLING - Gunasagaran GOUNDER - Navaneeda K. GOUNDER - Government Buildings, Suva - Government House, Suva - Governors of Fiji (List) - Governors-General of Fiji (list) - K. N. GOVIND - Govind Park - Graptophyllum repandum - Grand Coalition for Fiji - Grand Pacific Hotel - Sir Alexander GRANTHAM - Great Astrolabe Reef - Great Council of Chiefs (Fiji) - Michael GREEN - Ashley Martin GREENWOOD - Aaron GROOM - Chuck GROTTE - Group Against Racial Discrimination - Satish Chandra GULABDAS - Gujaratis in Fiji - Gurkul Primary School - Rudi GUTENDORF\n\nGardenia anapetes - Gardenia candida - Gardenia gordonii - Gardenia grievei - Gardenia hutchinsoniana - Gardenia hillii - Gardenia storckii\n\nGeniostoma clavigerum - Geniostoma confertiflorum - Geniostoma macrophyllum - Geniostoma stipulare - Geniostoma uninervium\n\nSir William HACKETT - Hạf'liua - Aaron HALL - Robert Wilson HAMILTON - Sir Arthur HAMILTON-GORDON - HASAN, Said - Hatana - Hector HATCH - Epeli HAU'OFA - Jarryd HAYNE - Head of State of Fiji - Angie HEFFERNAN - Trevor HENRY - Hereford (ship) - Vilsoni HERENIKO - Sathya HETTIGE - Scott HIGGINBOTHAM - High Commission of Fiji, London - High Commissioners of New Zealand to Fiji, list of - High Commissioners of the United Kingdom to Fiji, list of - High Court of Fiji - Nifa and Nishan HINDES - Hindu Maha Sabha (Fiji) - Hinduism in Fiji - His Majesty O'Keefe - {History of Fiji: Discovery - The rise and fall of Cakobau - Colonial Fiji - Modern history of Fiji} - History of the Jews in Fiji - History of rugby union matches between Australia and Fiji - History of rugby union matches between Fiji and Italy - History of rugby union matches between Fiji and Samoa - History of rugby union matches between Fiji and Scotland - History of rugby union matches between Fiji and Wales - History of rugby union matches between the British and Irish Lions and other countries - HMS Conflict (1873) - A. M. HOCART - Alex HODGMAN - Selina HORNIBROOK - House of Chiefs - House of Representatives of Fiji - Housing Authority of Fiji - Charles Gough HOWELL - Mike HOWLETT - Howrah (ship) - Stuart HUGGETT - Andrew HUGHES - Nathan HUGHES - Wally HUGHES - Human trafficking in Fiji - Fida HUSSEIN - Azim HUSSEIN - Sir Eyre HUTSON - Hydriastele microcarpa\n\nRatu Josefa ILOILO - Sir Everard IM THURN - India-Fiji relations - Indians in Fiji - Indus (ship) - Inocarpus fagifer - Instant-runoff voting - Instruments of Independence - Intelligentsiya (blog) - Inter-District Championship - David IPP - Imraz IQBAL - IRB Pacific 5 Nations - I-sala - Islam in Fiji - Islands Business - Islands of Fiji, list of - - Itu'muta - Itu'ti'u\n\nIndian Association of Fiji - Indian Cane Growers Association - Indian Imperial Association - Indian indenture ships to Fiji - Indian members of Legislative Council of Fiji - Indian Platoon - Indian Reform League\n\nGerson JACKSON - Sir Henry Moore JACKSON - Sir Derek JAKEWAY - Imrana JALAL - Anare JALE - Tony JAMIESON - Farouk JANEMAN - Ben JANNIF - Ilisavani JEGESA - Edward Enoch JENKINS - Arthur JENNINGS - George JENNINGS - Michael JENNINGS - Robert JENNINGS - Brad JOHNSTONE - Joske's Thumb - Judicial Service Commission - Juju (district) - Jumna (ship) - Justice and Freedom Party - Justice of Appeal\n\nHosanna KABAKORO - Kabara - Glenn KABLE - Kadavu fantail - Kadavu Group - Kadavu honeyeater - Kadavu Island - Penaia KADAVULEVU - Kaibu - Simione KAITANI - Kaivalagi - Kaiviti - Sekonaia KALOU - Atunaisa KALOUMAIRAI - KALOUYALEWA - Daren KAMALI - Tomasi KANAILAGI - Kanacea - Kanaka - Ratu Epeli KANAKANA - Kanakas - Malakai KAINIHEWE - Mari KAPI - Kasavu River - Wise KATIVERATA - Kato'aga - Ratu Aisea KATONIVERE - Jonetani KAUKIMOCE - Kaunitoni - Malakai KAUNIVALU - Samuela KAUTOGA - Kava - Kava culture - Kavain - Kavalactone - Kavula River - \"Adi\" Salaseini KAVUNONO - Nemani KAVURU - Francis KEAN - Freddy KEIAHO - Kenneth KEITH - Declan KELLY - Nemia KENATALE - Kendrit Shiri Sanatan Dharam Shiv Temple - Ro Teimumu KEPA - Sailosi KEPA - Iliesa KERESONI - Samu KEREVI - Rashit KHAMIDULIN - Tulsi Ram KHELWAN - Shah KIBRIA - Lyons KIERAN - Viliame KIKAU - Kingiodendron platycarpum - Kioa - Kisan Sangh - Arthur KITINAS - Kleinhovia - Meli KOLIAVU - Osea KOLINISAU - George KONROTE - Sevanaia KORO - Koro Airport - Koro Island - Koro-ni-O - Koro Sea - Jimi KOROI - Jokapeci KOROI - Marika KOROIBETE - Kiniviliame KOROIBULEKA - Josua KOROIBULU - Semi KOROILAVESAU - Apisai KOROISAU - Koroivonu River - Korolevu River - Koro-ni-O - Korotasere River - Niumaia KOROVATA - Lesi KOROVAVALA - Korovou - Al KOROVOU - Manu KOROVULAVULA - Korovuli River - Koroyanitu, Mount - Sunia KOTO - Joji KOTOBALAVU - Faiyaz KOYA - Sidiq KOYA - Nailani KRISHAN - James Shri KRISHNA - Roy KRISHNA - Ratu Inoke KUBUABOLA - Ratu Jone KUBUABOLA - Sisa KOYAMAIBOLE - Kubuna Confederacy - Kubuna River - Kula Eco Park - Kulu Bay Resort - Semi KUNATANI - Maleli KUNAVORE - Sadhu KUPPUSWAMI - Jone KURADUADUA - Chris KURIDRANI - Tevita KURIDRANI - Selina KURULECA - Suliasi KURULO - Kundan Singh KUSH - Kya Dilli Kya Lahore\n\nA. H. Sahu KHAN - Ballu KHAN - Hafiz KHAN - Iqbal KHAN - Jahir KHAN - Mohammed Afzal KHAN - M. T. KHAN - Rocky KHAN\n\nAnup KUMAR - Jain KUMAR - Jainend KUMAR - Jilila KUMAR - Manoj KUMAR - Nareish KUMAR - Ronil KUMAR - Salesh KUMAR\n\nRatu Paula LACAWAI - Lagalaga River - Lahloo - Aseri LAING - Lakeba - Lakeba Airport - Lakeba River - B. D. LAKSHMAN - Chaitanya LAKSHMAN - Prince Gopal LAKSHMAN - Ratu Naiqama LALABALAVU - LALACIWA - Lali (drum) - Lapitiguana - Fero LASAGAVIBAU - Josefa LASAGAVIBAU - Lascars in Fiji - Laucala - Laucala Airport - LAUFITU of Tonga - Lau Islands - Lauan language - Sanivalati LAULAU - Lauwaki - Lava Cola - Lawaki River - Lawaqa Park - Leader of the Opposition - Kele LEAWERE - Sireli LEDUA - Legend FM - Legislative Council (Fiji) - Michael LEITCH - Lekutu River - Charles Oswald LELEAN - Lelean Memorial School - Leleuvia - Leonidas (ship) - Lepidoptera of Fiji, list of - Ponipate LESAVUA - Lethacotyle fijiensis - Graeme LEUNG - Josefa LEVULA - Levuka - Levuka Airfield - Levuka F.C. - Lewalevu - Wame LEWARAVU - Lewavesi Production - Neumi LEWENI - Isireli LEWENIQILA - LGBT history in Fiji - LGBT rights in Fiji - Norman LIGAIRI - Maria LIKU - Maca LIKUTABUA - Lio 'On Famör Rotuma Party - Lawrence LITTLE - Nicky LITTLE - Lobau River - Local government of Fiji - Eroni LOGANIMOCE - Isoa LOGAVATU - Lok News - Jacob LOKO - Lomaiviti - Lomaiviti language - Lomaloma - Long-legged warbler - Watisone LOTAWA - Gabrielle LOVOBALAVU - Lovoni - Lovoni River - Kenneth LOW - Alexander LOSYUKOV - Felix von LUCKNER - Sir Harry LUKE - Vika LUSIBAEA - Lutukina River - Lutunasobasoba - Mosese LUVEITASAU - Jiko LUVENI - Waisea LUVENIYALI\n\nLabasa - Labasa Airport - Labasa College - Labasa F.C. - Labasa Kisan Sangh - Labasa River\n\nBrij LAL (historian) – Brij LAL (politician) - John Icha LAL - Prerna LAL - Surendra LAL\n\nLami - Lami F.C. - Lami River\n\nLautoka - Lautoka District - Lautoka F.C.\n\nCampese Ma'AFU - Enele MA'AFU - Salesi MA'AFU - Jone MACILAI (rugby league) - Jone MACILAI-TORI - Macuata - Sir Kenneth MADDOCKS - James MADHAVAN - Siromaniam MADHAVAN - Ratu Joni MADRAIWIWI - Ratu Joni MADRAIWIWI I - Magimagi - Mago Island - Maha Sangh - Mahatma Gandhi Memorial High School (Fiji) - Mai TV - Main (ship) - Ratu Kinijoji MAIVALILI - Sir Charles MAJOR - Mak Sa'moa - Mak Sa'moa - Makogai - Malakua River - David MALCOLM - Inoke MALE - Malhaha - Malolo - Malolo Lailai - Malolo Lailai Airport - Malumu NAIVAUKURA - Mamanuca Islands - Mammals of Fiji, list of - Mana Island Airport - Injimo MANAGREVE - Maniltoa floribunda - Maniltoa minor - Maniltoa vestita - Craig K. MANSCILL - A. R. MANU - Deacon MANU - Paul MANUELI - Daniel Urai MANUFOLAU - Adi Litiana MAOPA - Maps of Fiji - Maqewa - Samuela MARAYAWA - Adrian MARIAPPA - Saleem MARSOOF - Marist Brothers High School (Fiji) - Mary Jane's Relaxing Soda - MASEIKULA - Manoa MASI - Asaeli MASILACA - Masked shining parrot - Esala MASI - Benito MASILEVU - Anthony MASON - Keith MASON - Master of the High Court - Petero MATACA - Sakiusa MATADIGO - Matagi - Mataika House - Matailobau District - Irami MATAIRAVULA - Isikeli MATAITOGA - Roger MATAKAMIKAMICA - Samuela MATAKIBAU - Timoci MATANAVOU - Naomi MATANITOBUA - Ratu Suliano MATANITOBUA - Matanivanua - Mataniwai River - Mataqali - Josh MATAVESI - MATAWALU - Nikola MATAWALU - Matei Airport - Josua MATEINANIU - Matuku - Maunatul Islam Association of Fiji - Neil MAXWELL - Maxwell Hendry MAXWELL-ANDERSON - Sir Francis Henry MAY - Mac McCALLION - Thomas McCosker v The State - C. Steven McGANN - John McKEE - Danny McLENNAN - Duncan McMULLIN - Medinilla waterhousei - Kali MEEHAN - Willis MEEHAN - Meke - Melanesian Spearhead Group - Commins MENAPI - Men's football at the 2003 South Pacific Games - Tauili'ili Uili MEREDITH - Mersey (ship) - Methodist Church of Fiji and Rotuma - Methysticin - Metrosideros ochrantha - Metroxylon vitiense - Military of Fiji - Military-church relations in Fiji - Daryl MILLARD - Ryan MILLARD - Albert MILLER - Minerva Reefs - Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation (Fiji) - Mirchi FM - Ghananand MISHRA - Sudesh MISHRA - Miss Fiji - Sir Charles MITCHELL - Sir Philip MITCHELL - Robin E. MITCHELL - Mix FM - Moala Airport - Moala Island - Moala Islands - Mocis trifasciata - Mocis vitiensis - Leonid MOISEYEV - Ratu Tevita MOMOEDONU - Monarchy of Fiji - Monasavu Dam - Charlie MOORE - Sean MORRELL - Mary MORRIS - Howard MORRISON - Sir John MORRISON - Monuriki - Julian MOTI - Moturiki - Motusa - Movie Talk Show- FBC Production - Moy (ship) - Muniswamy MUDLIAR - Vashist MUNI - {Municipal elections in Fiji; see also separate articles: 2002 - 2005} - Perumal MUPNAR - Murimuria - Kini MURIMURIVALU - Graham MURRAY - Museums in Fiji, list of - Music of Fiji - Mussidia pectinicornella - MV Suilven - Myristica gillespieana - Myristica grandifolia - Myristica macrantha\n\nSir Kenneth MacKENZIE - Sir Percy McELWAINE\n\nAdi Asenaca MARA - Ratu Finau MARA - Ratu Sir Kamisese MARA - Ro Adi Lala MARA - Ratu Tevita Uluilakeba MARA - Adi Elenoa MARA-RASOVA\n\nBadri MAHARAJ - J. D. MAHARAJ - Navin MAHARAJ - Sanjeet Chand MAHARAJ\n\nMALANI - Adi Laufitu MALANI - Ratu Wilisoni Tuiketai MALANI\n\nNabagatai - Nabiti River - Nabua - Joeli NABUKA - Nabukelevu - Eto NABULI - Lepani NABULIWAQA - Nabuna River - Isa NACEWA - Nacula - Pita NACUVA - Nadamanu River - Nadarivatu Dam - Nadogo F.C. - Nadogo River - Nemani NADOLO - Nadroga F.C. - Nadroga-Navosa - Noa NADRUKU - Ratu Sairusi NAGAGAVOKA - Nagigia Island - Shivlal NAGINDAS - Timoci NAGUSA - Waisake NAHOLO - Tomasi NAIDOLE - Dorsami NAIDU - Richard NAIDU - Naigani - Apisai NAIKATINI - Apisai NAIKATINI - Kevin NAIQAMA - WES NAIQAMA - Damodran NAIR - Vijay Nair - Naiselesele River - Keleveti NAISORO - Naitaba - Nic NAITANUI - Naitasiri District - Naitasiri - Jovesa NAIVALU - Sefanaia NAIVALU - Solomone NAIVALU - Timoci NAIVALUWAQA - Taqele NAIYARAVORO - Jimilai NAKAIDAWA - Noa NAKAITACI - Leone NAKARAWA - Nakasi - Nakauvadra - Nakauvadra River - Nakorotubu District - Nakorotolutolu River - Pio NAKUBUWAI - Nakura River - Nala River - Nalawa F.C. - Napolioni NALAGA - Napolioni NALAGA - Nalagi River - Livai NALAGILAGI - Simone NALATU - Nalawa F.C. - Nalomate River - Namalata - Namatakula - Jope NAMAWA - Namena Lala - Namada River - Namata River - Naming conventions of Fiji - Namosi District - Namosi-Naitasiri-Serua language - Namosi - Namotu - Nananu-i-Cake - Nananu-i-Ra - Satendra NANDAN - Satya NANDAN - Nanenivuda River - Ratu Sela NANOVO - Neumi NANUKU - Nanuya Lailai - Nanuya Levu - NAOSARA - Serupepeli Naqase - Sireli NAQELEVUKI - Naqereqere River - Sekove NAQIOLEVU - Nasaqalau - Nasau Park - Elina NASAUDRODRO - Nasavu River - Nasekawa River - Valerio NASEMA - Rupeni NASIGA - Sisilia NASIGA - Nasilai River - Nasinu - Nasinu F.C. - Nasinu River - Nasivi River - Nasoata River - Nasoni River - Nasoqo River - Nadorelevu, Mount - Nasuva River - Natabua High School - Nate and Hayes - Natoavou River - Nationalist Vanua Tako Lavo Party - Native Land Register - Native Land Trust Board - Native Transport Detachment - Natovi Landing - Timoci NATUVA - Sioeli NAU - Naua River - Sailasa NAUCUKIDI - Josateki NAULU - Samueli NAULU - Viliame NAUPOTO - Nausori - Nausori Highlands - Nausori International Airport - Nautanivono - Navadra - Ratu Jone NAVAKAMOCEA - Maciu NAVAKASUASUA - Navala - Eparama NAVALE - Navilagolago River - Navilevu River - Naviti - Ratu Viliame NAVOKA - Navua District, Fiji - Navua F.C. - Navua River - Mesake NAVUGONA - Navuloa River - Navuturerega River - Niko NAWAIKULA - Nawailevu River - Ratu Josateki NAWALOWALO - Valerio NAWATU - Noa NAYACAKALOU - Rusiate NAYACAKALOU - Waisea NAYACALEVU - Isoa NEIVUA - Maritino NEMANI - Neoveitchia storckii - Nepalese community in Fiji - New Labour Unity Party - New Nationalist Party - Newnham, S.S. - Newspapers in Fiji, list of - NFP–Labour Coalition - Tom NICHOLLS - John Fearns NICOLL - John NIMMO - Sangeeta NIRANJAN - David NIU - Ratu Epeli NIUDAMU - Paula NIUKULA - Niumataiwalu - Noa’tau - Alipate NOILEA - Nokia Eagles - Non-Resident Indian - Northern Air - Northern Division - Nourse Line - Nubu River - Nuku District, Fiji - Nukulau\n\nNadi - Nadi District - Nadi F.C. - Nadi International Airport - Nadi River\n\nApenisa NAEVO - Ratu Apisai NAEVO - Semesi NAEVO\n\nAdi Koila Mara NAILATIKAU - Ratu Epeli NAILATIKAU - Ratu Epeli NAILATIKAU I - Ratu Epeli NAILATIKAU I - Ratu Epeli Qaraninamu NAILATIKAU\n\nGyani NAND - Nainendra NAND - Ragho NAND - Suruj Mati NAND\n\nDeo NARAIN - NARAIN, Sathi - Irene Jai NARAYAN - Paresh Narayan - Udit NARAYAN\n\nNational Anthem (God Bless Fiji) - National Congress of Fiji - National constituencies - National Council for Building a Better Fiji - National Farmers Union of Fiji - National Democratic Party (1960s) - National Democratic Party (2006) - National Federation Party - National Federation Party - Dove faction - National Federation Party - Flower faction - National Football League - National language debate - National Security Council (Fiji) - National Stadium (Suva) - National Super League 2014 - National Trust of Fiji\n\nNeuburgia alata - Neuburgia collina - Neuburgia macrocarpa - Neuburgia macroloba\n\nSir George O'BRIEN - Terry O'DONNELL - Ochetellus sororis - Office of International Treasury Control (OITC) - Ogea Driki - Ogea Levu - Aisake Ó HAILPÍN - Seán Óg Ó HAILPÍN - Setanta Ó HAILPÍN - Teu Ó HAILPÍN - Oinafa - Olorua - One Fiji Party - Ono Island - Ono-i-Lau - Open constituencies - Operation Morris Dance - Operation Quickstep - Orange dove - Order of Fiji - Orthetrum serapia - Patrick OSBORNE - Patterson OTI - Evelyn OTTO - Outline of Fiji - Ovalau\n\nPacific Broadcasting Services Fiji - Pacific Conference of Churches - Pacific Oceania Davis Cup team - Pacific Rim Rugby Championship - Pacnews - Ben PADARATH - Lavenia PADARATH - Narendra Kumar PADARATH - Steve PAENIU - Palolo worm - Pandanus joskei - Pandanus taveuniensis - Paramount Chief of Fiji - Craig PARKER - Parkia parrii - Parliament (Fiji) - Party of National Unity (PANU) - Party of the Truth (POTT) - Parliamentary Organization for Indigenous Fijians - Davendra PATHIK - PAULINI - Paulini discography - George Hamilton PEARCE - Mau PENISULA - Penang River - Penang (Rakiraki) Sugar Mill - People on stamps of Fiji, list of - People's Charter for Change, Peace and Progress - People's Coalition - People's Democratic Party - People's National Party - Pepjei - Denis PERERA - Pericles (ship) - Rebecca PERROTT - Philidris nagasau - Tyrone PHILLIPS - Tony PHILP - Physokentia thurstonii - James PICKERING - Manikam V. PILLAI - Samresan PILLAY - Sarojini PILLAY - Wayne PIVAC - Pinctada maxima - Pipermethystine - Pipturus platyphyllus - Pittosporum pickeringii - Pittosporum rhytidocarpum - Wayne PIVAC - Platymantis megabotoniviti - Platymantis vitianus - Platymantis vitiensis - Podocarpus neriifolius - Political families in Fiji, list of - Political parties in Fiji, list of - Politics of Fiji - Polyalthia laddiana - Poonah (Ship) - Porphyrosela aglaozona - Paulo POSIANO - Post Fiji - Post Fiji Stadium - Postage stamps and postal history of Fiji - History of pound sterling in Oceania - Ranjesh PRAKASH - Premna protrusa - Presidents of Fiji (List) - President of the Court of Appeal - President of the Senate of Fiji - {Presidential elections in Fiji: see also separate articles: 2000, 2006} - President's Overseas XV - Katharine PRICHARD - Prime Ministers of Fiji (List) - Prince Charles Park - Pritchardia thurstonii - Carl PROBERT - Proposed states of Australia, list of - Protector of Fiji (Bei Kai Viti) - Proceratium vinaka - Provinces of Fiji - Psilogramma jordana - Caroline PUAMAU - Puisne judge - Pullea perryana - Hari PUNJA - Punjas Rugby Series\n\nPacific Alliance Leaders Meeting - Pacific Green - Pacific Island Air - Pacific Islands Forum - Pacific Islands Rugby Alliance - Pacific Islanders rugby union team - Pacific Rugby Cup - Pacific Rugby League International - Pacific Union\n\nA.D. PATEL - Harilal Manilal PATEL - Navin PATEL - R. D. PATEL - S. B. Patel - Vimla L. PATEL - Vinod PATEL - Vinubhai PATEL\n\nAyodhya PRASAD - Bijay PRASAD - Biman PRASAD - Calvin PRASAD - Giyannedra PRASAD - Krishna PRASAD\n\nQaloyaqa River - Qamea - Qaraniqio River - Qaranivalu - Laisenia QARASE - Qawa River - Qelelevu - Akapusi QERA - Nacanieli QEREWAQA - Alipate QETAKI - Apimeleki QILIHO - Adi Litia QIONIBARAVI - Henry QIODRAVU - Qoliqoli Bill - Gabriele QORO - Adi Sivia QORO - Emasi QOVU - Jone QOVO - Queen Elizabeth Barracks - Queen of Fiji - Queen Victoria School (Fiji) - Peter QUILLIAM - Renold QUINLAN - Qurai\n\nRa - Seru RABENI - Rabi Council of Leaders - Rabi Island - Sitiveni RABUKA - Lagani RABUKAWAQA - Orisi RABUKAWAQA - Kiniviliame RADAVETA - Patrick RADDOCK - Saula RADIDI - Radini Nayau - Semi RADRADRA - Pramod RAE - Kathlyn RAGG - Monica RAGHWAN - Mataiasi RAGIAGIA - Lote RAIKABULA - David RAIKUNA - Rail transport in Fiji - Jone RAILOMO - Simon RAIWALUI - George Shiu RAJ - Setariki RAKABULA - Rakiraki - Rakiraki F.C. - Balwant Singh RAKKHA - Jonetani RALULU - Jack RAM - Kallu Dhani RAM - Rishi RAM - K. C. RAMRAKHA - Eminoni RANACOVU - John RANKINE - James Ramchandar RAO - Nikola RAOMA - Rapid (brig) - Raranitiqa - Vesi RARAWA - Abdul Rahim RASHEED - Manoa RASIGATALE - Isaia RASILA - Rasolo - Ratu Talemo RATAKELE - Alipate RATINI - Ratu - Jonetani RATU - Michael RATU - Ropate RATU - Ratu Cakobau Park - Ratu Kadavulevu School - Ratumaibulu - Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna Day - Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna Day, 2005 - Aca RATUVA - Kameli RATUVOU - Daniel RAUICAVA - Jacob RAULUNI - Mosese RAULUNI - Peni RAVAI - Semi RAVOUVOU - Malakai RAVULO - Asesela RAVUVU - Ifereimi RAWAQA - Taniela RAWAQA - Ratu Josaia RAYAWA - {Reconciliation and Unity Commission - Blue Ribbon campaign - Yellow Ribbon campaign - Moderate voices - Military opposition - Military-church relations in Fiji - Foreign reaction - Religious reaction} - Red-throated lorikeet - Reddy Group - Jai Ram REDDY - Kamlesh REDDY - K. S. Reddy - Mahendra REDDY - Nitya Nand REDDY - Frankie REED - Repatriation of indentured Indians from Fiji - Reserve Bank of Fiji - Return to the Blue Lagoon - Rhine (ship) - Rhone (ship) - Sir Arthur RICHARDS - Tom RICKETTS - Peter RIDGEWAY - Marieta RIGAMOTO - Ringgold Isles - Rivers in Fiji, list of - Ro - Fred ROBARTS - Sir Hercules ROBINSON - Robinson Crusoe Island - David RODAN - Sir Cecil Hunter-RODWELL - Rusiate ROGOYAWA - Saimoni ROKINI - Roko - Nasoni ROKO - Alex ROKOBARO - Ratu Maculeku ROKOCEGU - Joe ROKOCOKO - Semesa ROKODUGUNI - Adi Joana ROKOMATU - Seveci ROKOTAKALA - Roko Tui - Roko Tui Bau - Roko Tui Dreketi - Roko Tui Namata - Ratu Kolinio ROKOTUINACEVA - Roman Catholicism in Fiji - Junior ROQICA - Junior RASOLEA - Rosiloa - Yuval ROTEM - Roger ROUSSEAU - Michelle ROWLAND - Swami RUDRANANDA - Rugby league in Fiji - Rugby union in Fiji - Rugby Union (Fiji national rugby union team) - Rugby Sevens (Fiji national rugby union sevens team) - Rugby union in Rotuma - Epeli RUIVADRA - Rukuruku River - William RYDER\n\nRadio Australia - Radio Fiji One - Radio Fiji Two - Radio Navtarang - Radio Sargam\n\nRewa - Rewa Bridge - Rewa F.C. - Rewa Planters Union - Rewa River\n\nRotuma - Rotuma Airport - Rotuma Day - Rotuma Day, 2005 - Rotuma Group - Rotuman Islands Council - Rotuman language - Rotuma myzomela\n\nSabeto River - Ronals SACKVILLE - Sacred Heart Church - Asesela SADOLE - Osea SADRAU - Ian SAIGATU - Losena SALABULA - Kaiyava SALUSALU - Jagannath SAMI - Madeleine SAMI - Samabula River - Jimione SAMISONI - Adi Mere Tuisalalo SAMISONI - Radike SAMO - Ravuama SAMO - Yevgeny SAMOTEYKIN - Samulayo - Totaram SANADHYA - Ron SANG - Sangola (ship) - Santhia (ship) - Matareti SARASAU - Saraswati College - Saravi River - Sarowaqa River - Apolosi SATALA - Viliame SATALA - Anand SATYANAND - Sau (Rotuman king) - Sau turaga - Meli SAUBULINAYAU - Tomasi SAUQAQA - Vereniki SAUTURAGA - Charles SAVAGE - Isikia SAVUA - Savu River (Fiji) - Savuto Vakadewavosa - Savusavu - Savusavu Airport - Savusavu F.C. - Sawana - Aiyaz SAYED-KHAIYUM - Scaevola floribunda - Deryck SCARR - Les Scheinflug - John Maurice SCOTT - Michael Dishington SCOTT - Scouting and Guiding in Fiji - Jocelynne SCUTT - Seaqaqa F.C. - Seaqaqa River - Second Fiji Expedition - Dixon SEETO - Senate (Fiji) - Jona SENILAGAKALI - Navitalai SENILAGAKALI - Henry SENILOLI - Ratu Jope SENILOLI - Popi SENILOLI - Sennit - Waisale SEREVI - Serianthes vitiensis - Apaitia SERU - Fili SERU - John SERU - Nacanieli SERU - Serua District - Serua, Mount - Serua Province - Serua District - SERUKEIREWA - Ratu Semi SERUVAKULA - Viliame SERUVAKULA - Koli SEWABU - C. A. Shah - Nazhat SHAMEEM - Shaista SHAMEEM - Shangri-La's Fijian Resort - Rishi SHANKAR - Ram SHARAN - Owen SHEERS - Shipwrecked - Robert SHUSTER - M. Osman SIDDIQUE - Sigatoka - Sigatoka Sand Dunes - Sigatoka River - Sikhism in Fiji - Semesa SIKIVOU - Peniasi SILATOLU - Timoci SILATOLU - Silktail - Morgan SIMMONS - Nigel SIMPSON - Ashton SIMS - Barry SIMS - Korbin SIMS - Ruan SIMS - Tariq SIMS - Sakiusa SING - Silktail - Sitiveni SIVIVATU - Sivoki - Savenaca SIWATIBAU - Suliana SIWATIBAU - Sky Fiji - Sky Pacific - Slaty monarch - Apisai SMITH - Greg SMITH (rugby coach) - Greg SMITH - Stephen SMITH - Wilma SMITH - Philip SNOW - Jimmy SNUKA - Tamina SNUKA - Social Liberal Multicultural Party - Solicitor-General (Fiji) - Solkope - Dave SOLOMON - Setefano SOMOCA - Somosomo - Somosomo Creek - Somosomo Strait - Enele SOPOAGA - Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua - Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei - Gagaj Maraf SOLOMONE - Warren SORBY - SOROAQALI - Seule SOROMON - Usaia SOTUTU - South Indians in Fiji - Southern Cross Cable - Southern Division Kisan Sangh - Ratu Jovesa SOVASOVA - Waisale SOVATABUA - Sovi Basin - Sovi River - Speaker of the House of Representatives of Fiji - Adi Kuini SPEED - George SPEIGHT - Graham SPEIGHT - Henry SPEIGHT - James SPIGELMAN - Spiraeanthemum graeffei - Spiraeanthemum katakata - Spiraeanthemum serratum - Spodoptera mauritia - Sport in Fiji - Sri Siva Subramaniya temple - S. SRISKANDARAJAH - Sir Charles ST JULIAN - Paul STEIN - St Johns College, Fiji - Rick STONE - James STORER - Storckiella vitiensis - Goran ŠUBARA - Subrail Park - Nikolai SUDARIKOV - Suetabu River - Sugar Cane farmers unions in Fiji - Sugar Cane Growers Council - Sugar City Ratepayers Alliance - Sugar mills in Fiji - Netani SUKA - Netani SUKANAIVALU - Sefanaia SUKANAIVALU - Waisale SUKANAVEITA - Mahendra SUKHDEO - Ratu Sir Lala SUKUNA - Sukuna Bowl - Sulphur-breasted myzomela - Sulu - Sun Air (Fiji) - Super Model - Supreme Court (Fiji) - Bataram SURI - - Joanna SUTTON - John SUTTON - Suva - Suva Adventist College - Suva City Council - Suva Fiji Temple - Suva F.C. - Suva Grammar School - Suva Highlanders - Avinesh SUWAMY - Muthu SWAMY - Ofa SWANN - Sir Ernest Bickham SWEET-ESCOTT - Syria (ship)\n\nSchefflera costata - Schefflera euthytricha - Schefflera seemanniana - Schefflera vitiensis\n\nSyzygium amplifolium - Syzygium diffusum - Syzygium fijiense - Syzygium minus - Syzygium phaeophyllum - Syzygium purpureum - Syzygium seemannianum - Syzygium wolfii\n\nDevanesh SHARMA - Gabriel SHARMA - Harish Sharma - Krishna Chand SHARMA - Neil SHARMA - Sachida Nand SHARMA - Shiu Sharan SHARMA - Shri Krishna SHARMA - Tulsi Ram SHARMA - Vivekanand SHARMA - Vyas Deo SHARMA\n\nAgni Deo SINGH - Ajay SINGH - Ajit Swaran SINGH - Alpana SINGH - Alvin SINGH - Anand Kumar SINGH - Anirudh SINGH - Attar SINGH - Bhagwan SINGH - Bobby SINGH - Chandra SINGH - C. P. SINGH - Chattur SINGH - Davendra SINGH - Gurjit SINGH - Gyan SINGH - James Shankar SINGH - Jason SINGH - K. B. SINGH - Mehar SINGH - Nibhray SINGH - Parmanand SINGH - Pravin SINGH - Prem SINGH - Rajnesh SINGH - Rajnesh SINGH - Ram SINGH - Ram Jati SINGH - Raman Pratap SINGH - Rebecca SINGH - Satendra SINGH - Uday SINGH - Ujagar SINGH - Vijay SINGH - Vijay R. Singh\n\nSS Chenab - SS Fazilka - SS Fultala - SS Ganges (1906) - SS Indus (1904) - SS Mutlah - SS Newnham - SS Sangola - SS Santhia - SS Sutlej - SS Vadala - SS Virawa - SS Wardha\n\nSouth Pacific air ferry route in World War II - South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission - South Pacific Championship - South Pacific Forum - South Pacific Scouts - South Pacific Stock Exchange - South Pacific Tourism Organisation\n\nAdi Finau TABAKAUCORO - Banuve TABAKAUCORO - Tabernaemontana thurstonii - Tabia River - Table No. 21 - Tabua - Ilivasi TABUA - Semi TADULALA - Saveneca TAGA - Michael TAGICAKIBAU - Sailosi TAGICAKIBAU - Susan TAGICAKIBAU - Tagimoucia - Peni TAGIVE - Tagroa Siria - Tailevu - Tailevu Knights - Tailevu/Naitasiri F.C. - Tailevu North F.C. - Taininbeka - Sapeta TAITO - Seveci TAKA - Amani TAKAYAWA - Takia (watercraft) - Ratu Inoke TAKIVEIKATA (Qaranivalu) - Ratu Inoke TAKIVEIKATA (Vice-President) - Metuisela TALEBULA - Netani TALEI - Joe TAMANI - Saimoni TAMANI - Simione TAMANISAU - Jeremaiya TAMANISAU - Seta TAMANIVALU - Howie TAMATI - Tamavua River - Antonio TANABURENISAU - Kaliova Nauqe TANI - Iliesa TANIVULA - Aisea TAOKA - Tarau of Tovu Totoya - Aisake TAROGI - 'Ana TAUFE'ULUNGAKI - Ratu Kiniviliame TAUKEINIKORO - Taunovo River - Tauraria - Tautoga - Ratu Sir Josaia TAVAIQIA - Tavarua - Taveuni - Taveuni F.C. - Taveuni, Mount - Taveuni beetle - Taveuni F.C. - Tavewa - Tavo - Rebecca TAVO - Kaliopate TAVOLA - Tavoro Creek - Jone TAWAKE - Setareki TAWAKE - John TAY - Teresia TEAIWA - Tēfui - Remueru TEKIATE - Tekken - Tekken Revolution - Tekken Tag Tournament 2 - Saula TELAWA - Telecommunications in Fiji - Esala TELENI - Telephone numbers in Fiji - Ransley THACKER - The Adorable Outcast - The Blue Lagoon - The Land Has Eyes - The People of Paradise - Laurence THOMS - Thomson Park - James Beveridge THOMSON - Manoa THOMPSON - Peter THOMSON - Sir John THURSTON - Thurston Gardens - Tibitibi River - Moti TIKARAM - Ramon TIKARAM - Tanita TIKARAM - Pio TIKODUADUA - Samisoni TIKOINASAU - Asaeli TIKOIROTUMA - Pio Bosco TIKOISUVA - Romanu TIKOTIKOCA - Sera TIKOTIKOVATU - Virginia TILLEY - Alan TIPPERT - Tivua Island - Malakai TIWA - Apisai TOGA - Iliesa TOGA - Inisai TOGA - Toga River - Adi Davila TOGANIVALU - Togolevu River - Toguru River - Farasiko TOKAREI - Tokoriki - Savenaca TOKULA - Veresa TOMA - Tomanivi, Mount - Tongan Kava Ceremony-Taumafa Kava - Tonight - John TOOHEY - Top Spin 3 - Apisai TORA - Semisi TORA - Tora ni Bau - Totoya - Tovata Confederacy - Transport in Fiji - TREY, MC - Tribewanted - Tropical Depression 04F (2009) - Tropical Depression 10F (2004) - Peter TSIAMALILI - Kalaveti TUIYABAYABA - Aisea TUIDRAKI - Patiliai TUIDRAKI - Talemaitoga TUAPATI - Tubou - Manasa TUGIA - Aisea TUIDRAKI - Aisea TUILEVU - Malakai TUILOA - Kitione TUINAOSARA - Ilisoni TUINAWAIVUVU - Joe TUINEAU - Ilaitia TUISESE - Ratu Sakiusa TUISOLIA - Josua TUISOVA - Sir Timoci TUIVAGA - Naitini TUIYAU - J. B. TULARAM - Manu TUPOU - Manueli TULO - Taliai TUPOU - Lote TUQIRI - Lote TUQIRI (rugby union) - Turaga - Turaga na Gonesau - Turaga na Ratu ni Natauiya - Tuva River - Tuvuca - Isireli TUVUKI - Jerry TUWAI - Pio TUWAI\n\nTavua - Tavua District - Tavua F.C. - Tavua Island - Tavua River\n\nTui Cakau - Tui Cakau's army - Tui Delai Gau - Tui Fiti - Tui Lau - Tui Nadi - Tui Namosi - Tui Nayau - Tui Viti - Tui Vuda\n\nAkuila UATE - John UDAL - Udre UDRE - Uea - Alifereti Finau ULUGALALA - Uluigalau, Mount - ULUILAKEBA I - ULUILAKEBA III, Tevita - Alfred ULUINAYAU - Nat ULUIVITI - Kula Kei ULUIVUYA - Ulupoka - Uma of Nukunuku - Chandu UMARIA - United Fiji Party (\"Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua\") - United Nations, Fiji Mission to - United Nations Security Council Resolution 287 - United States Ambassador to Fiji - Universities in Fiji, list of - University of Fiji - University of the South Pacific - Solofa UOTA - Jone USAMATE - USS Warbler (MSC-206)\n\nVadala (ship) - Vaileka - Ratu Nemia Vunimakadre VAINITOBA - Apolonia VAIVAI - Saimoni VAKA - Marika VAKACEGU - Savuto VAKADEWAVOSA - Ratu Rakuita VAKALALABURE - Ratu Tevita VAKALALABURE - Niko VAKARARAWA - Osea VAKATALESAU - Etuate VAKATAWA - Virimi VAKATAWA - Tomasi VAKATORA - Ratu Kinijioji VAKAWALETABUA - Samu VALELALA - Amasio VALENCE - Manasa VANIQI - Vanua - Vanua Balavu - Vanuabalavu Airport - Vanua Levu - Vanua Levu Group - Vanua Levu mine - Vanua Tako Lavo Party - Rupeni VAREA - Vatanitawake - Vatoa - Jioji VATUBUA - Waisale WATUBUA - Vatukoula - Vatukoula F.C. - Vatukoula mine - Vatulele - Vaturova River - Vatu Vara - Waisale VATUVOKA - Vatuwaqa River - John Henry VAUGHAN - Bulou Elenoa Misikini VAVAITAMANA - Lekh Ram VAYESHNOI - Veeru Waah Bhaai Waah - George VEIKOSO - Viliame VEIKOSO - Veinuqa River - Joeli VEITAYAKI - Veitokani ni Lewenivanua Vakarisito (Christian Democratic Alliance) - Veisari River - Niko VEREKAUTA - Hikmat Singh VERMA - Versicolored monarch - Vicariate Apostolic of Fiji - Vice-President of Fiji - Joeli VIDIRI - Savu VILIAME - Violence against women in Fiji - Pedro VIRGIL - Viria Sugar Mill - Samisoni VIRIVIRI - Virawa (ship) - Visa policy of Fiji - Visa requirements for Fijian citizens - Ratu Tanoa VISAWAQA - Viseisei - Vishal Sangh - Lolagi VISINIA - Visoto - Viti FM - Viti Levu - Viti Levu giant pigeon - Viti Levu Group - Viti Levu rail - Vitogo River - Vitu - Jesoni VITUSAGAVULU - Viwa Island - Vodafone Arena (Fiji) - Vodafone M.I.C - Vodafone Ratu Cakobau Park - Apenisa Tuta VODO - Vola ni Kawa Bula - Volcanoes in Fiji, list of - Voma, Mount - Anatole VON HÜGEL - Ilisoni VONOMATEIRATU - Vorovoro - Josefa VOSANIBOLA - Manoa VOSAWAI - Voting system of Fiji - Watisoni VOTU - Vuaqava - Emosi VUCAGO - Vuda Point - Vuda River - VUETASAU - Josefa VUETI - Tomasi VUETILOVONI - Tevita VUIBAU - Adi Lagamu VUIYASAWA - VUKINAVANUA - Mika VUKONA - Josateki VULA - Samuela VULA - Laisa VULAKORO - Albert VULIVULI - Finau VULIVULI - Eloni VUNAKECE - Marika VUNIBAKA - Vunibelebele River - Berenado VUNIBOBO - Vunidawa River - Vunikavikaloa - Samuela VUNISA - Vunisea Airport - Vunivalu of Bau - Vunivia River - Atunasia VUNIVIALU - Mereseini VUNIWAQA - Vuniyaro River - Peceli VUNIYAYAWA - Isikeli VURUNA\n\nVeitchia filifera - Veitchia simulans - Veitchia vitiensis\n\nBen VOLAVOLA - Mosese VOLAVOLA - Ratu Peni VOLAVOLA - Timoci VOLAVOLA\n\nWailagi Lala - Wailoa Hydro Power Station - Wailevu River - Waibula River (Taveuni) - Waibula River (Viti Levu) - Waidalici River - Waidamu River - Waidina River - Wailevu River (Vanua Levu) - Wailoa River - Waimanu River - Waimaro River - Wainadoi River - Wainibuka River - Ulaiasi WAINIDROA - Wainikoro River - Wainikoroiluva River - Wainimala River - Wainivesi River - Wainunu River - Wairikicake River - Wairikiqisi River - Waisoi mine - Waisomo River - Stanley WAITA - Wakaya - Sisa WAQA - Taniela WAQA - Josaia WAQABACA - Dominiko WAQANIBUROTU - Jeremaia WAQANISAU - Viliame WAQASEDUADUA - Taito WAQAVAKATOGA - Samu WARA - Taito WARADI - Gordon WARD - Wardha (ship) - Warning - Joseph WATERHOUSE - Dick WATLING - Peceli WAWAVANUA - Wickrema WEERASOORIA - Mark WEINBERG - Alfred WENDT - Jone WESELE - Mekeli WESLEY - Tai WESLEY - West Fijian languages - West Fijian – Rotuman languages - Western Crusaders - Western Division - Western Fijian language - Western United Front - David WHIPPEY - Marques WHIPPY - Mikaelar WHIPPY - Whistling fruit dove - Brayden WILIAME - J. WILLIAMS - Ron WILLIAMS - Women in Fiji - Pio WONG - James Roland WOOD - World Rugby Pacific Challenge - World War I aces from Fiji, list of - Ulamila Kurai WRAGG - Henry WRENFORDSLEY\n\nWeinmannia affinis - Weinmannia exigua - Weinmannia richii - Weinmannia vitiensis\n\nAkuila YABAKI - Konisi YABAKI - Yacata - Yadua Levu - Yadua Tabu - Daniel YAKOPO - Yalalevu - Alefoso YALAYALATABUA - Yanawai River - Yangonin - Yanuca - Yanuca Lailai - Yanuca Levu - Jerry YANUYANUTAWA - Yaqara River - Yaqona - Yasawa - Yasawa Island Airport - Yasawa Islands - Peceli YATO - Yat Sen School - Ratu Jekesoni Lewenilovo YAVALANAVANUA - Years in Fiji, list of - Alfred Karney YOUNG - Ted YOUNG\n\nJörg ZIMMERMANN - Kenneth Vincent ZINCK\n\n\nFiji (main article) - Communications in Fiji - {1997 Constitution of Fiji; ; Chapters } - Culture of Fiji - Demographics of Fiji - Economy of Fiji - Famous Fijians - Foreign relations of Fiji - History of Fiji - Local government of Fiji - Military of Fiji - Music of Fiji - Outline of Fiji - Politics of Fiji - Transport in Fiji\n\nAirlines of Fiji, list of - Airlines of Oceania, list of - - Airports in Fiji, list of - Birds of Fiji, list of - Chief Justices of Fiji, list of - Cities and towns in Fiji, list of - Diplomatic missions in Fiji, list of - Diplomatic missions of Fiji, list of - Elections in Fiji, list of - Festivals in Fiji, list of - House of Representatives of Fiji - Chairman of the Great Council of Chiefs - Birds of Fiji, list of - Cities and towns in Fiji - Elections in Fiji, list of - Diplomatic missions in Fiji - Diplomatic missions of Fiji - Fiji national rugby union players, list of - Fijians, list of - Fijian Affairs Ministers - Fijian politicians, list of - Fijian records in swimming, list of - Fijian sportspeople, list of - Fijian submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, list of - Fijian Victoria Cross recipients, list of - Fish on stamps of Fiji, list of - Football clubs in Fiji, list of - Foreign Ministers of Fiji - Fosssiliferous straigraphic units in Fiji, list of - Governor of Fiji - Governor-General of Fiji - Head of State of Fiji - High Commissioners of New Zealand to Fiji, list of - High Commissioners of the United Kingdom to Fiji, list of - Indian indenture ships to Fiji - Islands of Fiji, list of - Leader of the Opposition - Lepidoptera of Fiji, list of - Mammals of Fiji, list of - Museums in Fiji, list of - Newspapers in Fiji, list of - People on stamps of Fiji, list of - Political families in Fiji, list of - Political parties in Fiji, list of - Premiers of the Kingdom of Viti, list of - Presidents of Fiji, list of - Prime Ministers of Fiji, list of - Proposed states of Australia, list of - Provinces of Fiji, list of - Rivers in Fiji, list of - Senators of Fiji, list of - Speakers of the House of Representatives of Fiji, list of - Universities in Fiji, list of - Vice-Presidents of Fiji, list of - Volcanoes in Fiji, list of - World War I aces from Fiji, list of - Years in Fiji, list of\n\n"}
{"id": "55504166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55504166", "title": "Istočni Trojvrh", "text": "Istočni Trojvrh\n\nIstočni Trojvrh is a village in Croatia, under the Josipdol township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "35657439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35657439", "title": "Lake Lanutavake", "text": "Lake Lanutavake\n\nLake Lanutavake () is a small crater lake surrounded by jungle on the southwest side of Wallis (Uvea) in the Pacific. It lies to the northeast of Fineveke. Like Lake Lalolalo, there is a rumor that the US military dumped equipment in the lake at the end of World War II.\n"}
{"id": "11160842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11160842", "title": "Leize", "text": "Leize\n\nLeize is a widespread hydronymic root meaning 'pit','ravine'. It appears in modern Basque dictionaries as \"leze\" 'cave'.\n\nIt may be found at the origin of river or place names as:\n\n\nThe Pyrenean hydronym Neste is related.\n\nOn the other hand, the Lys or Leie is based on another root, the Gaulish word liga 'silt'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453556", "title": "List of Catholicoi of all Armenians", "text": "List of Catholicoi of all Armenians\n\nThis is a list of the Catholicoi of all Armenians (), head bishops of the Armenian Apostolic Church ().\n\n\"(Name in English, dates, Armenian name in Eastern Armenian spelling)\"\n\n\n\nArsacid Dynasty (from 301 to 428 the episcopal office is hereditary)\nAssyrian descent\nAshishatts Dynasty\nArsacid Dynasty\nAlbaniosid Dynasty\nArsacid Dynasty\nAssyrian descent\nNon-Hereditary Bishop\n\n\n\n\n\n\"During this time the see was transferred to Cilicia, from 1058 until 1441 (see List of Armenian Catholicoi of Cilicia for continued succession).\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18459206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18459206", "title": "List of Extras characters", "text": "List of Extras characters\n\nThe British television sitcom \"Extras\" centres on the main characters of Andy Millman, Maggie Jacobs and Darren Lamb, in addition to several more recurring characters.\n\nPortrayed by Ricky Gervais, Andrew \"Andy\" Millman is the lead character of \"Extras\". Andy's dream to become an actor – he left his steady day job at Natwest in Wokingham in order to pursue it - is endlessly frustrated by the fact that his agent Darren Lamb is incompetent, circumstances seem to conspire against him, and the only work he can get is as a film extra. His best friend is fellow extra Maggie Jacobs, but her staunch desire to help, coupled with a lack of tact and intelligence, means that she more often than not causes him just as much trouble.\n\nAt the end of Series 1, Millman successfully managed to sell a sitcom called \"When the Whistle Blows\", which proves to be a commercial but not a critical success.\n\nIn contrast to Gervais' other famed role as David Brent, who, through his desire to be liked by those around him comes off as pathetic, Millman often makes little or no attempt to be liked - often being a downright curmudgeon - but frequently comes across as being a much more likeable character than Brent. This may be due to his increased sense of self-awareness and understanding; when compared to Brent, Millman is all too aware of when he has stepped over the line and become genuinely offensive (although this doesn't stop him from causing genuine offence). Also unlike Brent, who was largely in denial about the world around him, Millman is a more depressed and misanthropic character with a more realistic appraisal of the world and how it works. Whereas Brent was based on a former boss of Gervais, Millman's personality is more autobiographical in origin.\n\nA running joke is that Millman did not lose his virginity until the age of 28 (although the first time this is mentioned, Maggie says he was 22), and to a woman who looked like Ronnie Corbett (who turns up in a later episode as himself). Andy's nemesis throughout the programme is Greg Lindley-Jones, who also started out as an extra before finding success in a number of productions and becoming a well-respected actor, much to Andy's annoyance.\n\nPortrayed by Ashley Jensen, Maggie Jacobs is characterised as a genuinely kind and supportive individual who only wants to help out. Unfortunately for her and those around her, she is also portrayed as being rather socially inept and lacking in any sort of internal censor or sense of tact, which means that she's more likely to say precisely the wrong thing at the wrong time to the wrong person, and thus create more trouble for herself and those around her (especially Andy, whom she frequently embarrasses by inadvertently puncturing his pretensions towards being an actor). Although the character possesses no malicious intent, she also appears to be rather childlike and poorly educated when it comes to matters of race and political correctness - which, when coupled with her general tactlessness, frequently results in her causing genuine offence through inadvertent insults and stereotypes. In series two her earthy ways are shown to contrast greatly with the pretensions of Andy's new friends. Gervais has stated that he thinks the personality of Maggie resembles a female version of Karl Pilkington, whose friendship with Gervais was developing during the time Extras was being written. During the series Andy even explains that he and Maggie are friends because she's so stupid and it amuses him, which is precisely what Gervais has said about Pilkington.\n\nMaggie is rather man-hungry, and throughout the series she is constantly on the lookout for 'Mr. Right.' However, owing to circumstance and her aforementioned tendency to commit social \"faux-pas,\" the relationships she starts with men throughout the series rarely last long. However, there have been instances in which the men she is interested in turn out to be very much less than desirable, through no fault of her own. In one episode she was constantly pestered and eventually kissed by Orlando Bloom, even though she had told him that she did not find him particularly attractive.\n\nPortrayed by Stephen Merchant, Darren Lamb is Andy Millman's agent. He is utterly incapable of breaking an act, and his usual negotiating tactic is to simply agree with whatever anyone else says, or suggest someone other than his client for the part. He's very good at deducting his 12.5% commission (\"15% for adverts\") despite frequently having done nothing to contribute to his act's success. For example, in series two episode two, whilst in the pub, he asks for £27.50 from Barry for the £220 he was paid for fixing someone's gutter, despite having no involvement in getting him the job. He can often be seen begging for this type of payment. His lack of professional skills is typified by the occasion he inadvertently left his office phone unplugged for two days without noticing. He is also known to make inappropriate remarks at the least helpful of times. Lamb works part-time at the Carphone Warehouse, but in Episode 4 of Series 2, he mentions he only works on Saturdays while \"Narinder\" is pregnant.\n\nDespite these (and more) overwhelming examples of incompetence, Lamb is nevertheless the agent of the series' protagonist, the frustrated Andy Millman, who is more than aware of his agent's utter uselessness but nevertheless feels compelled to retain him out of a slightly perverse mixture of responsibility and sympathy. Lamb is also the agent of \"Barry from \"EastEnders\"\".\n\nIn episode six of the second series, an increasingly stressed Millman threatens to sack Lamb after he is caught masturbating and relaxing in his office. However, Lamb manages to arrange a meeting between Millman and his hero Robert De Niro, with the indication given that he managed to keep his job as a result.\n\nLamb does not have a regular girlfriend and his rather crude way of chatting up women (as seen in episode two of series two) means few have any wish to fulfil his sexual desires. In the fourth episode he actually managed to invite Maggie to his house, things go well until Lamb tries to break an unflushable faeces in his toilet into pieces with a whisk, causing Maggie to leave his house in disgust.\n\nShaun Williamson plays himself as one of Darren's clients. He used to play Barry Evans on the British soap opera \"EastEnders\", but left to pursue a multi-million pound contract elsewhere and failed. Darren Lamb doesn't use his real name, but instead calls him \"Barry off \"EastEnders\"\" or just \"Barry\" and occasionally \"Barr\". This also extends to other characters as seen in episode 1.2, where fellow \"EastEnders\" actor Ross Kemp only seems to know Shaun Williamson after being told his \"EastEnders\" character name. He carries an air of accepted defeat, and helps Lamb around his office, appearing to be marginally the more competent of the two. They later team up with another ex-Eastender, Dean Gaffney, at the Carphone Warehouse. Andy and Dean are the only ones who ever call him \"Shaun\".\n\nPortrayed by Shaun Pye, Greg Lindley-Jones is an arrogant and mean-spirited Royal Academy of Dramatic Art graduate and Andy's enemy. Like Andy, he started out as an extra, struggling to get more significant roles. However, unlike Andy, he has managed to secure lines in various productions such as \"The Bill\" and consequently he possesses a rather high opinion of himself and is constantly bullying Andy. Andy rarely gets ahead in his encounters with Greg. In the first episode of series one it is revealed he is subsidised by his wealthy parents. While both Andy and Greg are suitably advantaged so that they can afford to work full-time in minor acting roles, Greg's through a privileged background and Andy's through a previous career at the bank. Greg is notably annoyed when Andy tries to celebrate his BBC series triumph with fellow extras in Season 1 Episode 6.\n\nGreg gradually gains more recognition as a successful stage, television and eventually film actor. In the Christmas special he boasts to Andy how the fictitious film \"Byron: A Life\", (in which he starred alongside Clive Owen) is number one in the UK film charts and number two in America. Andy becomes envious of the fact Greg is now a well-respected Hollywood actor whilst he is only recognised for featuring in a lowbrow sitcom.\n\n\nRay is the manager, played by Andy Millman, in turn played by Ricky Gervais. His catchphrase is an incredulous \"Are you having a laugh!? Is he/she having a laugh?\". The character was based on a man Millman worked for before deciding to pursue acting full-time, and originally his catchphrase was merely something Millman wrote in because it was something that man used to say. Millman's co-writer decided to develop it into a catchphrase. To play the part of Ray, Millman is forced into wearing oversized glasses and a curly black wig to add the \"hilarity\", despite the fact that the real Ray Stokes did not look like this. Many of Ray's mannerisms, such as raising and lowering his glasses, suggest that he could be a parody of Reg Holdsworth, an old character from the long-running British soap \"Coronation Street\".\n\nRita is played by Liza Tarbuck, who also sings the \"When The Whistle Blows\" theme song. She is a single parent and is the central, straight character of the show. She is married in the Christmas Special.\n\nGobbler is a large, unintelligent character, played by Andrew Buckley. His inability to understand his co-workers' jokes often prompts his catchphrase, \"I don't get it!\" It is suggested that he has appalling personal hygiene. He becomes intelligent after falling off a donkey in the Christmas Special.\n\nBrains, played by Jamie Chapman, is the stereotypical smart one of the group, sporting glasses, a quiffed hairstyle and a pedantic tone. His rather detailed knowledge of all subjects does not impress Ray, who will inevitably come out with the \"are ya 'avin' a laugh?\" line. He 'comes out' in the Christmas Special.\n\nKimberley, played by Sarah Moyle is the only other female character on the show. She seems to lead a rather homely lifestyle. In the Christmas Special, she received a promotion.\n\nKeith is played by TV presenter Keith Chegwin in the pilot episode. His character was originally called \"Alfie\", but a frustrated Millman changed it because Keith Chegwin was confused at being addressed with a different name. We are told he is always late for work, but in this instance turns up late because he was at his sister's funeral. This also confused Chegwin, who confided: \"the thing is, my sister's not dead\".\n\nThere are relatively few other characters in the sitcom, but they include Chris Martin (playing himself), and a Japanese couple, who also spawn another catchphrase \"Velly velly solly\" (as seen on a T-shirt worn by a crowd member in the Christmas Special). Ray's wife is mentioned, but never appears - which is an old cliché of British comedy, e.g., \"Minder\" and Dad's Army. Andy appears in a dual role as Ray's twin sister.\n\n"}
{"id": "39324842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39324842", "title": "List of Iranian dynasties and countries", "text": "List of Iranian dynasties and countries\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of historical dynasties which were at some time Iranian or the country they ruled were Iranian-speaking and of modern countries with significant Iranian populations or with an official Iranian language. The Iranians consist of Persians, Medes, Scythians, Kurds, Bactrians, Pashtuns, Tajiks, Baloch, Parthians, Sarmatians, Alans, Ossetians, Cimerians, and many more peoples.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57146769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57146769", "title": "List of avenues in Edmonton", "text": "List of avenues in Edmonton\n\nThe following is a list of the east–west arterial thoroughfares in the city of Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Numbered avenues run east-west with street numbers increasing to the north. In 1982 a quadrant system was adopted. Quadrant Avenue (1 Avenue; only constructed west of the river), along with Windermere Boulevard and the south leg of Anthony Henday Drive, dividing the north and south quadrants. Edmonton currently has three quadrants: northwest (NW), southwest (SW), and northeast (NE); the vast majority of the city falls within the northwest quadrant. Addresses on 41 Avenue and south have been encouraged to include NW to avoid confusion with addresses in the SW quadrant. \n\n41 Avenue SW is a developing major arterial road in south Edmonton. It is a rural grid road that earned the name 41 Avenue SW when Edmonton expanded southward, and is the boundary between Edmonton and Leduc County. East of Meridian (1) Street, it enters Strathcona County and continues as Township Road 512.\n\nPrior to the 1982 general annexation, the roadway is within Strathcona County, with the Leduc and Strathcona County boundary following Township Road 510, to the south. As part of the annexation, the strip land west of Range Road 234 (Meridian Street when it leaves Edmonton) was transferred to Leduc County.\n\n\nEllerslie Road (or 9 Avenue SW) is a major arterial road in south Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. The original rural area was named Ellerslie by early Scottish settlers, and the name was applied to the local school district by 1895. When the rural grid road Township Road 514 was later built, it soon earned the nickname Ellerslie Road.\n\nWhen the Ellerslie area was annexed by Edmonton in 1982, the City of Edmonton extended its own numbering system to existing roads. The 1982 annexation pushed Edmonton`s boundaries south of 1 Avenue, so the city adopted a quadrant system, renaming Township Road 514 to 9 Avenue SW – though Ellerslie Road has remained the preferred name by Edmontonians.\n\nSince 1999, Ellerslie Road has become a major arterial, serving the significant residential development in the extensive string of neighbourhoods across the Ellerslie area, the Heritage Valley area, the Windermere area and the Southeast Edmonton area of the city. As part of the Windermere Neighbourhood Structure Plan, Ellerslie Road was realigned near 170 Street SW (Terwillegar Drive) and becomes \"Hiller Road\" west of the intersection. The bypassed rural road alignment will become a multi use trail.\n\n\n23 Avenue NW is a major arterial road in south Edmonton. It runs through several neighbourhoods including Mill Woods and The Meadows, and commercial areas including South Edmonton Common, and Mill Woods Town Centre Mall.\n34 Avenue NW is a major arterial road in south Edmonton. It mostly runs through residential neighbourhoods, with the exception of an area between 91 Street and Calgary Trail, sometimes called \"auto row\", due to all the car dealerships along the route. It provides a through route for Mill Woods, and ends in the neighbourhood of Silver Berry, turning into Silver Berry Road.\n\n\n51 Avenue and Roper Road is a major arterial road in south Edmonton. It runs north of Whitemud Drive, passing through residential neighbourhoods west of Calgary Trail, passing the north side of Southgate Centre, and industrial neighbourhoods to the east. It currently ends at 38 Street with a future extension proposed to 34 Street.\n\n\n61/63 Avenue and Argyll Road is a major arterial road in south Edmonton. It undergoes a number of name changes through its length.\n\nThe majority of the artery travels west-east, however the named portion travel from south-west to north-east. The route begins as 61 Avenue, near the University of Alberta south campus, where it turns north and becomes 113 Street at the intersection with 60 Avenue. The LRT travels alongside 61 Avenue between 113 Street to 111 Street, where it continues south. It continues east until it transitions northeast to 63 Avenue, with the short south-west to north-east section called Allendale Road. East of 104 Street (Calgary Trail) the roadway goes under the name of 63 Avenue, dividing between residential and industrial areas. East of 86 Street, the roadway travels south-west to north-east and becomes Argyll Road, ending at the Sherwood Park Freeway. \n\n\nWhyte (82) Avenue is an arterial road in south-central Edmonton. It became the main street of the City of Strathcona as it formed, and now runs through Old Strathcona. Whyte (82) Avenue is part of a continuous roadway that runs through Sherwood Park, Edmonton, and St. Albert that includes Wye Road, Sherwood Park Freeway, portions of University Avenue and Saskatchewan Drive, Groat Road, and St. Albert Trail.\n87 Avenue is a major arterial road in west Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. It runs parallel, and services the residential areas, north of Whitemud Drive. A number of Edmonton landmarks line 87 Avenue, including West Edmonton Mall, Misericordia Community Hospital, and Meadowlark Health and Shopping Centre. West of Anthony Henday Drive it becomes \"Webber Greens Drive\" where it terminates at Winterburn Road (215 Street), while east of 142 Street it becomes \"Buena Vista Road\" enroute to the Valley Zoo. 87 Avenue was identified as the alignment of the western phase of the Valley Line of the Edmonton LRT between 159 Street and the Lewis Farms transit centre (just west of Anthony Henday Drive), serving West Edmonton Mall. No timeline has been set for the construction of the west phase.\n\nA separate, short segment of 87 Avenue runs between Groat Road and 109 Street, serving the University of Alberta.\n\n\n97/98 Avenue is a major arterial road in central and east Edmonton. 97 Avenue begins as a residential street at 111 Street and becomes an arterial road at 109 Street at the northern approach to the High Level Bridge. It passes passes underneath the grounds of the Alberta Legislature and crosses the North Saskatchewan River via the James MacDonald Bridge, where it becomes 98 Avenue. It continues east to Capilano Mall where the roadway splits so that the main roadway turns northeast along Terrace Road (eventually becoming 101 Avenue and Baseline Road) while 98 Avenue continues east along the southern perimeter of Capilano Mall as a collector road. East of 50 Street, 98 Avenue becomes a local road and ends at 49 Street.\n\n100 Avenue is a major arterial road in central and west Edmonton. The road starts as Stony Plain Road (Highway 16A), and as it approaches Anthony Henday Drive it separates into westbound and eastbound one-way streets. The westbound lanes occupy Stony Plain Road, while the eastbound street becomes 100 Avenue. It continues east and becomes a two-way street at 163 Street. At 149 Street, 100 Avenue becomes a residential street while inbound traffic to downtown is directed to take 156 Street to Stony Plain Road; 100 Avenue ends at 146 Street.\n\n100 Avenue begins again after Groat Road as a local road (named Victoria Park Road west of 116 Street), and continues through Downtown Edmonton.\n\n101 Avenue is a major arterial road in east Edmonton. 101 Avenue begins at 84 Street as a residential collector road to Terrace Road at Capilano Mall. 101 Avenue continues east from Terrace Road, with through traffic following 101 Avenue – Terrace Road to 98 Avenue. At 34 Street, 101 Avenue enters Strathcona County and becomes Baseline Road.\n\n101 Avenue is the alignment for two other major named roadways in Edmonton; Jasper Avenue through downtown and the portion Stony Plain Road west of 149 Street.\n\n102 Avenue short arterial road west of downtown Edmonton. It begins at Stony Plain Road east of 142 Street (through traffic follows westbound Stony Plain Road) and travels east. At 124 Street, 102 Avenue becomes a residential street while inbound traffic to downtown is directed to take 124 Street to Jasper Avenue; 102 Avenue ends at 111 Street.\n102 Avenue begins again at 109 Street and passes through downtown Edmonton, ending at a five-way intersection at Jasper Avenue and 95 Street.\n\n103A/104 Avenue short arterial road in central Edmonton. 104 Avenue begins at 121 Street (westbound traffic continues as Stony Plain Road) and continues east through Downtown Edmonton along the former downtown alignment of the Canadian National Railway. At 101 Street, the roadway becomes 103A Avenue and ends at the intersection of Jasper Avenue and 92 Street. It passes by major landmarks such as MacEwan University City Centre Campus, Rogers Place, the CN Tower, Edmonton City Hall, and the Royal Alberta Museum.\n106 Avenue / Rowland Road is a short arterial road in east Edmonton. The roadway begins as \"Rowland Road\" at 95 Street, two blocks south of Jasper Avenue, and travels east, crossing the North Saskatchewan River along the Dawson Bridge. After leaving the river valley, it becomes \"106 Avenue\" at 84 Street and travels east through mature residential neighbourhoods. At 50 Street, it 106 Avenue downgrades to a residential street and ends at 40 Street.\n\nRowland Road and 106 Avenue were once designated as part of the highway which headed due east from Edmonton as it connected Jasper Avenue to 101 Avenue. Along with 79 Street (later 84 Street) the route was part of Highway 15 from the 1930s to 1940; Highway 16 from the 1940 to 1953; and Highway 16A from the 1953 the 1970s.\n\n\n107 Avenue a major arterial road in central Edmonton. It serves Edmonton's west side industrial district, the old town of Jasper Place, the multicultural area north of Downtown Edmonton. The portion between 95 and 116 Streets has been dubbed \"Avenue of Nations\". It becomes 107A Avenue at 101 Street and becomes Stadium Road at 92 Street, where it passes Commonwealth Stadium and it continues as 86 Street north of 112 Avenue.\n\nMayfield Road and 111/112 Avenue a major arterial road in central Edmonton. The roadway begins at the 170 Street / Stony Plain Road split intersection and travels northeast to 163 Street and becomes 111 Avenue, passing a number of landmarks including the Telus World of Science, Westmount Centre, Kingsway Mall, Royal Alexandra Hospital, and Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital. The portion between 101 Street and 90 Street has the name \"Norwood Boulevard\" in addition to 111 Avenue. At 90 Street the roadway becomes 112 Avenue and passes Commonwealth Stadium; 112 Avenue ends at 50 Street.\n\n111 Avenue also has a western segment which continues west of Mayfield Road. It is a collector road which originates at Anthony Henday Drive, passes through the northwestern industrial areas, and ends at 163 Street just north its intersection with 111 Avenue / Mayfield Road.\n\n118 Avenue is the designated name of two major arterial roads in central Edmonton, separated by the Edmonton City Centre Airport. The segments are connected by Kingsway and Princess Elizabeth Avenue. It passes several major landmarks including Northern Alberta Institute of Technology (NAIT), Northlands and Northlands Coliseum.\n\n118 Avenue is also known as \"Alberta Avenue\" between 109 Street and Wayne Gretzky Drive and is part of the \"Alberta Avenue-Eastwood Business Revitalization Zone\".\n127 Avenue is a major in north Edmonton which runs parallel CN Rail Yards opposite to Yellowhead Trail (Highway 16). It is an arterial road between 127 Street and 82 Street and a collector road to the east. 127 Street has a right-in/right-out intersection at Fort Road adjacent its intersection with 66 Street.\n\n\n137 Avenue is a major arterial road in north Edmonton. This road travels through residential, industrial and commercial areas, including shopping and entertainment centres and districts. The road starts at Ray Gibbon Drive, in southwest St. Albert named LeClair Way. After entering Edmonton, at Sir Winston Churchill Avenue, it passes under Anthony Henday Drive, and continues through north Edmonton.\n\n137 Avenue passes Golden West Golf Course and St. Albert Trail Golf Course between 170 Street and St. Albert Trail (Mark Messier Trail / Highway 2). Past there is the St. Albert Trail and Pembina commercial areas, and Castle Downs neighbourhood. The avenue between Castle Downs Road and 97 Street forms the southern boundary of the old CFB Griesbach. At 97 Street (Highway 28) the road passes through the northgate commercial area with Northgate Centre and North Town Centre, and at 66 Street it passes Londonderry Mall. 137 Avenue again passes through commercial districts at Manning Drive and 50 Street (Highway 15), the latter being called Clareview Town Centre, and between which the LRT passes over. One final commercial area is located by Victoria Trail before 137 Avenue turns into 20 Street NW at Hermitage Park.\n\n\n153 Avenue is a major arterial road in north Edmonton. It runs through the residential areas of north Edmonton, running from 142 Street in the west to Meridian (1) Street, just east of Anthony Henday Drive. 153 Avenue also exists as a small rural grid road between a dead end east of Anthony Henday Drive and 17 Street NE.\n\n\n167 Avenue is the designated name of two major arterial roads in north Edmonton, separated by the Castle Downs neighbourhood. The western segment runs between 142 Street and 112 Street while the eastern segment runs between 97 Street and Manning Drive; the two segments are connected by 112 Street and Castle Downs Road. There is also a rural section between 34 Street NW and the North Saskatchewan River, segmented by Anthony Henday Drive.\n\n\n259 Avenue is the designated name of Highway 37 along Edmonton's northernmost city boundary between Range Road 241 (50 Street NW) and Range Road 232 (33 Street NE). The rural highway does not enter city limits, as the city's boundary is on the south side of the right of way.\n"}
{"id": "27970905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27970905", "title": "List of countries by greenhouse gas emissions", "text": "List of countries by greenhouse gas emissions\n\nThis is a list of countries by total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2014. It is based on data for carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, perfluorocarbon, hydrofluorocarbon, and sulfur hexafluoride emissions compiled by the World Resources Institute. The emissions data shown below do not include land-use change and forestry.\n\nBecause individual countries vary vastly in size and population, consider referring to List of countries by greenhouse gas emissions per capita which may be more relevant.\n\n"}
{"id": "39073078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39073078", "title": "List of fish in the River Trent", "text": "List of fish in the River Trent\n\nThis list of fish in the River Trent is a list of fish species that have been recorded from the River Trent, a major river in England that starts in Staffordshire, flows through the Midlands, and joins the River Ouse to form the Humber Estuary.\n\nThe impressive diversity of fish species in this river has been known (and celebrated) since 1590, with poetry containing the earliest mention that the Trent contains 30 kinds of fish. The earliest actual list of fish in the river is from 1641. Over the centuries some species have since become locally extinct, and other species have been introduced.\n\nIn 1590, Edmund Spenser in \"The Faerie Queene\" described the River Trent and its fish fauna as follows:\nThis couplet was closely echoed in 1612, in Drayton's \"Poly-Olbion\" description of the Trent:\n\nThese poems have been a source of curiosity to a number of fishing experts, who have endeavoured to guess the identity of the thirty fish alluded to in the poems.\n\nThe earliest known list of fish from the River Trent was from 1641. Although the list contains thirty names, one of them is not a fish by modern standards, but an edible crustacean, the Crayfish. The list also includes some fish names that no longer exist in modern English, such as \"Frenches\" and \"Lenbrood\"; these species are therefore currently unidentifiable.\n\nThe 1641 list of 30 species (verbatim, note antique spelling of some names):\n\n\"Barbet, Bream, Bullhead, Burbolts, Carp, Chevin, Crayfish, Dates, Eel, Flounder, Frenches, Gudgeon, Grayling, Lampern, Lamphrey, Lenbrood, Loach, Minnows, Pickeral, Pinks, Perch, Roach, Ruff, Salmon, Shad, Smelt, Sticklebats, Sturgeon, Trout, Whitling\".\n\nThe largest of these fish was the sturgeon, a species which at one time was fairly frequently caught in the Trent, but only in low numbers. Notable examples included a sturgeon of eight feet taken near Donington castle in 1255, and another at nearby King's Mill of seven feet in 1791. The last known catch was in 1902 near Holme, Nottinghamshire; the fish was eight and a half feet long and weighed 250 pounds.\n\nIn 1676 in Izaak Walton described the River Trent as \"One of the finest rivers in the world and the most abounding with excellent salmon and all sorts of delicate fish.\"\n\nWalton also speculated (incorrectly) that the name of the River Trent might be based on the number of fish species, that the Trent is \"... so called from thirty kind of fishes that are found in it, or for that it receiveth thirty lesser rivers\".\n\nIn 1751, Charles Deering provided a list of 34 kinds, under the title \"An alphabetical list of all the fish catch’d in the River Trent\". This listed read (verbatim);\n\n\"Barbel, Bream, Bulhead, Burbot, Carp, Chub, Crayfish, Dace, Eel, Flounder, Grayling, Gudgeon, Lamprey, Lampern, Loach, Minnow, Muscle, Perch, Pike, Roach, Rud, Ruff, Salmon, Salmon Trout, Salmon Pink, Sand Eel, Shad, Smelt, Strickleback, Sturgeon, Stream Pink, Tench, Trout, and Whitling\".\n\nThis list also includes several unrecognizable fish. It also lists three different names for salmon, as well as \"Whitling\", which is a name for a young male trout, and \"Muscle\", which is probably a reference to freshwater mussels, formerly used as food in some areas.\n\nGlover reproduced Deering's list in his \"History and Gazetteer of the County of Derby\", and also provided further information on many of the then known species in the companion volume, \"The History of the County of Derby (Volume 1)\".\n\nIn 1985, a study of anglers' catches stated that the ‘Trent supports about 40 species’, but they were not listed. The fish that were caught most often, and were important to anglers, included barbel, bream, bleak, carp, chub, dace, eel, gudgeon, perch, and roach.\n\nNon-native species that had a sustainable population in the river were listed in 2007, and included the European bitterling (\"Rhodeus amarus\"), carp (\"Cyprinus carpio\"), and zander (\"Sander lucioperca\").\n\nThis list is based on Deering's 1829 list. It includes the locally extinct species as well as the more recent additions, but it does not claim to be fully comprehensive; other species may occur in the river but are as yet undocumented.\n\n"}
{"id": "52004689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52004689", "title": "List of lighthouses in Macau", "text": "List of lighthouses in Macau\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Macau. \n\n"}
{"id": "11357477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11357477", "title": "List of mammals of Saint Kitts and Nevis", "text": "List of mammals of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in Saint Kitts and Nevis. These are the mammal species in Saint Kitts and Nevis, of which 0 are critically endangered, 0 are endangered, 1 is vulnerable, and 1 is near-threatened. One species is classified as extinct.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nSirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered.\n\n\nRodents make up the largest order of mammals, with over 40 percent of mammalian species. They have two incisors in the upper and lower jaw which grow continually and must be keep short by gnawing. Most rodents are small though the capybara can weigh up to 45 kg (100 lb).\n\n\nThe bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals in the world naturally capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20% of all mammals.\n\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\nThere are over 260 species of carnivorans, the majority of which feed primarily on meat. They have a characteristic skull shape and dentition. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "690408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690408", "title": "Mandala (political model)", "text": "Mandala (political model)\n\nMaṇḍala is a Sanskrit word that means \"circle\". The mandala is a model for describing the patterns of diffuse political power distributed among Mueang or Kedatuan (principalities) in early Southeast Asian history, when local power was more important than the central leadership. The concept of a mandala counteracts modern tendencies to look for unified political power, i.e., the power of large kingdoms and nation states of later history — an inadvertent byproduct of 15th-century advances in map-making technologies. In the words of O. W. Wolters who further explored the idea in 1982:\n\nThe map of earlier Southeast Asia which evolved from the prehistoric networks of small settlements and reveals itself in historical records was a patchwork of often overlapping mandalas.\n\nIt is employed to denote traditional Southeast Asian political formations, such as federation of kingdoms or vassalized polity under a center of domination. It was adopted by 20th century European historians from ancient Indian political discourse as a means of avoiding the term \"state\" in the conventional sense. Not only did Southeast Asian polities not conform to classical Chinese and European views of a territorially defined state with fixed borders and a bureaucratic apparatus, but they diverged considerably in the opposite direction: the polity was defined by its centre rather than its boundaries, and it could be composed of numerous other tributary polities without undergoing administrative integration.\n\nIn some ways similar to the feudal system of Europe, states were linked in suzerain–tributary relationships.\nThe term draws a comparison with the mandala of the Hindu and Buddhist worldview; the comparison emphasises the radiation of power from each power center, as well as the non-physical basis of the system.\n\nOther metaphors such as S. J. Tambiah's original idea of a \"galactic polity\" describe political patterns similar to the mandala. The historian Victor Lieberman prefers the \"solar polity\" metaphor, referencing the gravitational pull the sun exerts over the planets.\n\nHistorically, the main suzerain or overlord states were the Khmer Empire of Cambodia; Srivijaya of South Sumatra; the successive kingdoms of Medang, Kediri, Singhasari and Majapahit of Java; the Ayutthaya Kingdom of Thailand; Champa and China. China occupies a special place in that the others often in turn paid tribute to China, although in practice the obligations imposed on the lesser kingdoms were minimal. The most notable tributary states were post-Angkor Cambodia, Lan Xang (succeeded by the Kingdom of Vientiane and Luang Prabang) and Lanna. Cambodia in the 18th century was described by the Vietnamese emperor Gia Long as \"an independent country that is slave of two\" (Chandler p. 119). The system was eventually ended by the arrival of the Europeans in the mid-19th century. Culturally, they introduced Western geographical practices, which assumed that every area was subject to one sovereign. Practically, the colonisation of French Indochina, Dutch East Indies, British Malaya and Burma brought pressure from the colonisers for fixed boundaries to their possessions. The tributary states were then divided between the colonies and Siam, which exercised much more centralised power but over a smaller area than thitherto.\n\nHistorian Martin Stuart-Fox uses the term \"mandala\" extensively to describe the history of the Lao kingdom of Lan Xang as a structure of loosely held together mueang that disintegrated after Lan Xang's conquest by Thailand starting in the 18th century.\n\nThai historian Sunait Chutintaranond made an important contribution to study of the mandala in Southeast Asian history by demonstrating that \"three assumptions responsible for the view that Ayudhya was a strong centralized state\" did not hold and that \"in Ayudhya the hegemony of provincial governors was never successfully eliminated.\"\n\nThe obligations on each side of the relationship varied according to the strength of the relationship and the circumstances. In general, the tributary was obliged to pay \"bunga mas\", a regular tribute of various valuable goods and slaves, and miniature trees of gold and silver (\"bunga mas dan perak\"). The overlord ruler reciprocated with presents often of greater value than those supplied by the tributary. However, the tributary also had to provide men and supplies when called on, most often in time of war. The main benefit to the tributary was protection from invasion by other powers, although as South East Asia historian Thongchai Winichakul notes, this was often \"mafia-like protection\" from the threats of the overlord himself. In some cases, the overlord also controlled the succession in the tributary, but in general interference with the tributary's domestic affairs was minimal: he would retain his own army and powers of taxation, for example. In the case of the more tenuous relationships, the \"overlord\" might regard it as one of tribute, while the \"tributary\" might consider the exchange of gifts to be purely commercial or as an expression of goodwill (Thongchai p. 87).\n\nThe emphasis on personal relationships was one of the defining characteristics of the mandala system. The tributary ruler was subordinate to the overlord ruler, rather than to the overlord state in the abstract. This had many important implications. A strong ruler could attract new tributaries, and would have strong relationships over his existing tributaries. A weaker ruler would find it harder to attract and maintain these relationships. This was put forward as one cause of the sudden rise of Sukhothai under Ramkhamhaeng, for example, and for its almost equally steep decline after his death (Wyatt, 45 and 48). The tributary ruler could repudiate the relationship and seek either a different overlord or complete independence. The system was non-territorial. The overlord was owed allegiance by the tributary ruler, or at most by the tributary's main town, but not by all the people of a particular area. The tributary owner in turn had power either over tributary states further down the scale, or directly over \"his\" people, wherever they lived. No ruler had authority over unpopulated areas.\n\nThe personal relationship between overlord and subordinate rulers is also defining the dynamic of relationship within mandala. The relations between Dharmasetu of Srivijaya and Samaratungga of Sailendra for instance, defining the succession of these dynastic family. Dharmasetu was the Srivijayan Maharaja overlord, while the house of Sailendra in Java is suggested to be related and was subscribed to Srivijayan mandala domination. After Samaratungga married Princess Tara, the daughter of Dharmasetu, Samaratungga become his successor and the house of Sailendra was promoted to become the dynastic lineage of later Srivijayan kings, and for a century period the center of Srivijaya was shifted from Sumatra to Java.\n\nThe overlord-tributary relationship was not necessarily exclusive. A state in border areas might pay tribute to two or three stronger powers. The tributary ruler could then play the stronger powers off against each other in order to minimise interference by either one, while for the major powers the tributaries served as a buffer zone to prevent direct conflict between them. For example, the Malay kingdoms in Malay Peninsula, Langkasuka and Tambralinga, earlier were the subject to Srivijayan mandala, and in later period contested by either Ayutthaya mandala in north and Majapahit mandala in south, before finally gain its own gravity during Malacca Sultanate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40575517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40575517", "title": "Mapbox", "text": "Mapbox\n\nMapbox is a large provider of custom online maps for websites and applications such as Foursquare, Lonely Planet, Facebook, the \"Financial Times\", The Weather Channel and Snapchat. Since 2010, it has rapidly expanded the niche of custom maps, as a response to the limited choice offered by map providers such as Google Maps. Mapbox is the creator of, or a significant contributor to some open source mapping libraries and applications, including the MBTiles specification, the TileMill cartography IDE, the Leaflet JavaScript library, and the CartoCSS map styling language and parser.\n\nThe startup was created as a part of Development Seed in order to offer map customization for non-profit customers, in 2010. It was bootstrapped until a 2013 $10M Series A funding round by Foundry Group. In June 2015, Mapbox announced it had raised $52.55 million in a Series B round of funding led by DFJ Growth.\n\nEarly work on OpenStreetMap tools, including the iD editor, was funded by a $575,000 grant from the Knight Foundation.\n\nOn July 11, 2016, MapQuest discontinued the open tile API and users such as GNOME Maps were switched to a temporarily free tier of the Mapbox tileserver, while considering alternatives.\n\nIn October 2017, SoftBank led a $164 million investment in Mapbox Inc., with other investors including venture-capital firms Foundry Group, DFJ Growth, DBL Partners and Thrive Capital.\n\nThe data are taken both from open data sources, such as OpenStreetMap and NASA, and from proprietary data sources, such as DigitalGlobe. The technology is based on Node.js, Mapnik, GDAL, and Leaflet.\n\nMapbox uses data from tracks of its clients' users, such as Strava and RunKeeper, to identify likely missing data in OpenStreetMap with automatic methods, then manually applies the fixes or reports the issue to OSM contributors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55941314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55941314", "title": "Monte Forte, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Monte Forte, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nMonte Forte is a settlement in the Lembá District on the northwestern coast of São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 87 (2012 census). It lies 1.5 km west of Ponta Figo and 3 km southwest of the district capital Neves.\n"}
{"id": "30627055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30627055", "title": "Names of Belarusian places in other languages", "text": "Names of Belarusian places in other languages\n\nThis page lists some names of places in Belarus, as they are called in Belarusian and in other languages spoken by ethnic groups which are or have been represented within Belarusian territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "19976129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19976129", "title": "Povardarie", "text": "Povardarie\n\nPovardarie () is a geographic region in the central part of the Republic of Macedonia, and includes all of the canyons, mountains and valleys through which the river Vardar flows. \n\nTerm is used in names of Diocese of Povardarie of the Macedonian Orthodox Church and \"Eparchy of Veles and Povardarie\" of the Orthodox Ohrid Archbishopric.\n"}
{"id": "57604258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57604258", "title": "Praia das Conchas, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Praia das Conchas, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nPraia das Conchas is a settlement in the western part of the Lobata District on São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 174 (2012 census). Established as a plantation (\"roça\"), Praia das Conchas lies 2 km from the coast, 3 km west of Guadalupe. There is a smaller seaside settlement also called \"Praia das Conchas\", 3.5 km to the north.\n"}
{"id": "1887490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1887490", "title": "Punta Pariñas", "text": "Punta Pariñas\n\nPunta Pariñas, also known as Punta Balcones, is in the La Brea District, Talara Province, Piura Region, Peru. It is the westernmost point in mainland South America, located at .\n\nAn active lighthouse is located in Punta Pariñas. There is a popular beach just south of the cape, and visitors can climb the headland to see seals below.\n\n"}
{"id": "36213065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36213065", "title": "Regression-kriging", "text": "Regression-kriging\n\nIn applied statistics, regression-kriging (RK) is a spatial prediction technique that combines a regression of the dependent variable on auxiliary variables (such as parameters derived from digital elevation modelling, remote sensing/imagery, and thematic maps) with kriging of the regression residuals. It is mathematically equivalent to the interpolation method variously called \"universal kriging\" and \"kriging with external drift\", where auxiliary predictors are used directly to solve the kriging weights.\n\nRegression-kriging is an implementation of the best linear unbiased predictor (BLUP) for spatial data, i.e. the best linear interpolator assuming the universal model of spatial variation. Matheron (1969) proposed that a value of a target variable at some location can be modeled as a sum of the deterministic and stochastic components:\n\nwhich he termed \"universal model of spatial variation\". Both deterministic and stochastic components of spatial variation can be modeled separately. By combining the two approaches, we obtain:\n\nwhere formula_3 is the fitted deterministic part, formula_4 is the interpolated residual, formula_5 are estimated deterministic model coefficients (formula_6 is the estimated intercept), formula_7 are kriging weights determined by the spatial dependence structure of the residual and where formula_8 is the residual at location formula_9. The regression coefficients formula_5 can be estimated from the sample by some fitting method, e.g. ordinary least squares (OLS) or, optimally, using generalized least squares (GLS):\n\nwhere formula_12 is the vector of estimated regression coefficients, formula_13 is the covariance matrix of the residuals, formula_14 is a matrix of predictors at the sampling locations and formula_15 is the vector of measured values of the target variable. The GLS estimation of regression coefficients is, in fact, a special case of the geographically weighted regression. In the case, the weights are determined objectively to account for the spatial auto-correlation between the residuals.\n\nOnce the deterministic part of variation has been estimated (regression-part), the residual can be interpolated with kriging and added to the estimated trend. The estimation of the residuals is an iterative process: first the deterministic part of variation is estimated using OLS, then the covariance function of the residuals is used to obtain the GLS coefficients. Next, these are used to re-compute the residuals, from which an updated covariance function is computed, and so on. Although this is by many geostatisticians recommended as the proper procedure, Kitanidis (1994) showed that use of the covariance function derived from the OLS residuals (i.e. a single iteration) is often satisfactory, because it is not different enough from the function derived after several iterations; i.e. it does not affect much the final predictions. Minasny and McBratney (2007) report similar results—it seems that using more higher quality data is more important then to use more sophisticated statistical methods.\n\nIn matrix notation, regression-kriging is commonly written as:\n\nwhere formula_17 is the predicted value at location formula_18, formula_19 is the vector of formula_20 predictors and formula_21 is the vector of formula_22 kriging weights used to interpolate the residuals. The RK model is considered to be the \"Best Linear Predictor of spatial data\". It has a prediction variance that reflects the position of new locations (extrapolation) in both geographical and feature space:\n\nwhere formula_24 is the sill variation and formula_25 is the vector of covariances of residuals at the unvisited location.\n\nMany (geo)statisticians believe that there is only one Best Linear Unbiased Prediction model for spatial data (e.g. regression-kriging), all other techniques such as ordinary kriging, environmental correlation, averaging of values per polygons or inverse distance interpolation can be seen as its special cases. If the residuals show no spatial auto-correlation (pure nugget effect), the regression-kriging converges to pure multiple linear regression, because the covariance matrix (formula_13) becomes an identity matrix. Likewise, if the target variable shows no correlation with the auxiliary predictors, the regression-kriging model reduces to ordinary kriging model because the deterministic part equals the (global) mean value. Hence, pure kriging and pure regression should be considered as only special cases of regression-kriging (see figure).\n\nThe geostatistical literature uses many different terms for what are essentially the same or at least very similar techniques. This confuses the users and distracts them from using the right technique for their mapping projects. In fact, both universal kriging, kriging with external drift, and regression-kriging are basically the same technique.\n\nMatheron (1969) originally termed the technique \"Le krigeage universel\", however, the technique was intended as a generalized case of kriging where the trend is modelled as a function of coordinates. Thus, many authors reserve the term \"universal kriging\" (UK) for the case when only the coordinates are used as predictors. If the deterministic part of variation (\"drift\") is defined externally as a linear function of some auxiliary variables, rather than the coordinates, the term \"kriging with external drift\" (KED) is preferred (according to Hengl 2007, \"About regression-kriging: From equations to case studies\"). In the case of UK or KED, the predictions are made as with kriging, with the difference that the covariance matrix of residuals is extended with the auxiliary predictors. However, the drift and residuals can also be estimated separately and then summed. This procedure was suggested by Ahmed et al. (1987) and Odeh et al. (1995) later named it \"regression-kriging\", while Goovaerts (1997) uses the term \"kriging with a trend model\" to refer to a family of interpolators, and refers to RK as \"simple kriging with varying local means\". Minasny and McBratney (2007) simply call this technique Empirical Best Linear Unbiased Predictor i.e. \"E-BLUP\".\n\nIn the case of KED, predictions at new locations are made by:\n\nfor\n\nfor formula_29 or in matrix notation:\n\nwhere formula_31 is the target variable, formula_32's are the predictor variables i.e. values at a new location formula_33, formula_34 is the vector of KED weights (formula_35), formula_36 is the number of predictors and formula_15 is the vector of formula_22 observations at primary locations. The KED weights are solved using the extended matrices:\n\nwhere formula_40 is the vector of solved weights, formula_41 are the Lagrange multipliers, formula_42 is the extended covariance matrix of residuals and formula_43 is the extended vector of covariances at new location.\n\nIn the case of KED, the extended covariance matrix of residuals looks like this (Webster and Oliver, 2007; p. 183):\n\nand formula_45 like this:\n\nHence, KED looks exactly as ordinary kriging, except the covariance matrix/vector are extended with values of auxiliary predictors.\n\nAlthough the KED seems, at first glance, to be computationally more straightforward than RK, the parameters of the variogram for KED must also be estimated from regression residuals, thus requiring a separate regression modelling step. This regression should be GLS because of the likely spatial correlation between residuals. Note that many analyst use instead the OLS residuals, which may not be too different from the GLS residuals. However, they are not optimal if there is any spatial correlation, and indeed they may be quite different for clustered sample points or if the number of samples is relatively small (formula_47).\n\nA limitation of KED is the instability of the extended matrix in the case that the covariate does not vary smoothly in space. RK has the advantage that it explicitly separates trend estimation from spatial prediction of residuals, allowing the use of arbitrarily-complex forms of regression, rather than the simple linear techniques that can be used with KED. In addition, it allows the separate interpretation of the two interpolated components. The emphasis on regression is important also because fitting of the deterministic part of variation (regression) is often more beneficial for the quality of final maps than fitting of the stochastic part (residuals).\n\nRegression-kriging can be automated e.g. in R statistical computing environment, by using gstat and/or geoR package. Typical inputs/outputs include:\n\nINPUTS:\n\nOUTPUTS: \n\nRegression-kriging is used in various applied fields, from meteorology, climatology, soil mapping, geological mapping, species distribution modeling and similar. The only requirement for using regression-kriging versus e.g. ordinary kriging is that one or more covariate layers exist, and which are significantly correlated with the feature of interest. Some general applications of regression-kriging are:\n\n\nRegression-kriging-based algorithms play more and more important role in geostatistics because the number of possible covariates is increasing every day. For example, DEMs are now available from a number of sources. Detailed and accurate images of topography can now be ordered from remote sensing systems such as SPOT and ASTER; SPOT5 offers the High Resolution Stereoscopic (HRS) scanner, which can be used to produce DEMs at resolutions of up to 5 m. Finer differences in elevation can also be obtained with airborne laser-scanners. The cost of data is either free or dropping in price as technology advances. NASA recorded most of the world's topography in the Shuttle Radar Topographic Mission in 2000. From summer of 2004, these data has been available (e.g. via USGS ftp) for almost whole globe at resolution of about 90 m (for the North American continent at resolution of about 30 m). Likewise, MODIS multispectral images are freely available for download at resolutions of 250 m. A large free repository of Landsat images is also available for download via the Global Land Cover Facility (GLCF).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24993948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24993948", "title": "Ribu", "text": "Ribu\n\nA ribu is a mountain that reaches a topographic prominence of at least . \"Ribu\" is an Indonesian word meaning \"thousand\".\n\nIn Indonesia and Malaysia, three categories of ribus are known according to the absolute height of the peak. The \"Sangat Tinggi\" (Indonesian for \"very high\") category is for peaks higher than 3000 meters, \"Tinggi Sedang\" (Indonesian for \"medium height\") for peaks between 2000 and 3000 meters, and \"Kurang Tinggi\" (Indonesian for \"less high\") for peaks with an elevation of between 1000 and 2000 meters. Currently, a total of 270 Ribus are known across the Indonesian archipelago, including those in Malaysia and East Timor. Some are popular hikes, such as Mount Rinjani, Mount Semeru, and Mount Kerinci, while others are much more obscure, and some do not even have official names.\n\nSome famous Indonesian mountains, such as Mount Bromo and Tangkuban Perahu, are not ribus because they are connected to higher peaks by high passes and therefore do not achieve enough topographic prominence. However, a subsidiary category of spesial (Indonesian for \"special\") peaks contains those deemed of such significant touristic interest that they merit inclusion, albeit subjectively, in a secondary list. At the moment, the Gunung Bagging website counts 115 Indonesian spesials.\n\nThe list of the Indonesian ribus was compiled by Andy Dean and Daniel Patrick Quinn. As of October 2018, nobody is known to have completed the list.\n\nWhile the term \"ribu\" has been adopted to describe \"mountains that exceed a prominence of 1000 meters\" also outside Indonesia, the \"spesial\"-category remains acknowledged only there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10748658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10748658", "title": "Sociomapping", "text": "Sociomapping\n\nSociomapping is a method developed for processing and visualization of relational data (e.g. social network data). It is most commonly used for mapping the social structure within small teams (10-25 people). Sociomapping uses the landscape metaphor to display complex multi-dimensional data in a 3D map, where individual objects are localized in such way that their distance on the map corresponds to their distance in the underlying data.\n\nThanks to its visual coding Sociomapping engages our evolved skills for spatial orientation and movement detection, thus making the interpretation of complex data easy and accessible for everyone.\n\nThe sociomapping method was developed in 1993-1994 by R. Bahbouh as a tool that would facilitate understanding of data about social relations and help preventing conflicts within teams of military professionals. The first major application of sociomapping took place in 1994-1995 during the HUBES experiment (Human Behavior in Extended Spaceflight) – a 135-day-long simulation of a spaceflight with three crew members organized by European Space Agency. Sociomapping was then regularly used in other spaceflight simulations (1995-1996: EKOPSY, 1999: Mars105, 2010-2012: Mars500). Since 2005, sociomapping has been extensively used in business environment to analyze relationships within senior management teams. In 2012, C. Höschl jr. developed Real Time Sociomapping®\nsoftware that enables customers to do team sociomapping on the spot and is used for commercial purposes.\n\nThe basic principle of Sociomapping is transforming original data concerning a set of objects in such a way that the distance of each pair of objects on the map corresponds to the distance between the two objects in the underlying data. Transformation of the data is a matter of 1) choosing some metric that could be reasonably interpreted as distance, and 2) translating the multi-dimensional distance matrix into 2D coordinate system so that the correlation between map-distances and data-distances is maximized. \nThe algorithm for data-transformation, developed by C. Höschl jr., is thus a dimensionality-reduction technique, such as PCA, and its goodness of fit can be measured by Spearman correlation between the map-distances and data-distances. \nSociomapping takes into account that, particularly in case of social relations, relational data may be asymmetrical (e.g. John like Mary more than she likes him) and preserves this information by mapping the objects in such a way that for each object the closest other object is the one closest to it according to the metric of choice in the underlying data, and so on for other objects ordered by distance.\n\nThere are two main areas of application for Sociomapping – groups (small systems) and populations (large systems). For each area a different method of visualization and data transformation is used in order to facilitate people’s ability to understand and interpret the analyzed data.\n\nSociomapping for small systems produces Sociomaps of subjects. These subjects (in most cases people) are placed on the Sociomap reflecting their distance measured in various ways:\n\nBesides the distances between the group members, Sociomap shows additional variable coded in the height (or color) of the subject. Typical variables used for the height are: social status, performance indicators of the subjects, average communication frequency, etc.\n\nUnderstanding the relative distances between the people helps to understand the structure of the group, find subgroups formed by groups members and discover functions of the group members. In connection to the height Sociomap enables complex and comprehensive insight into the groups and small systems.\n\nSociomapping of small systems produces similar results to social network analysis with additional visualization features.\n\nBesides the small systems analysis based on various relational data, Sociomapping can be used to visualize the profiles of unrelated subjects. This is done by transformation of profiles of the subjects, computing the distances between the profiles and visualizing them in a Sociomap.\nThere is a software to compute Profile analysis (see section Sociomapping software)\n\nFor large systems and populations, different type of Sociomaps is used. Data used for these type of maps are rectangular matrices, where for each subject there is a preference vector of selected objects (such as political parties, brands, products, and so on). \nIn order to create a Sociomap, for each subject a position in the map is determined, and a small piece of mass representing this subject is placed on the map according to its vector of preferences to an object. As a result, there are places on the Sociomap where more subject are placed (hills) and where there are no subject (valleys). Therefore, hills are formed on the places representing typical preference configurations and this allows for visual cluster analysis, or segmentation.\nIn this sense, Large systems Sociomapping is a data mining approach based on visual pattern recognition).\n\nTypical uses for Large systems Sociomapping are:\n\nSociomapping has broader scope of application, including the following fields:\n\n\nSo far only one software tool based on Sociomapping was released.\n\nTeam profile analyzer is a tool for psychologists, consultants, managers and HR specialists. It enables integration of various sources of information about team from personality, performance or knowledge tests and biographical data. It can be used for team analysis and development: team coaching, team building, recruitment etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "718749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=718749", "title": "South Yemen", "text": "South Yemen\n\nSouth Yemen is the common English name for the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen ( '), which existed from 1967 to 1990 as a state in the Middle East in the southern and eastern provinces of the present-day Republic of Yemen, including the island of Socotra. It was also referred to as Democratic Yemen or Yemen (Aden).\n\nSouth Yemen's origins can be traced to 1874 with the creation of the British colony of Aden and the Aden Protectorate, which consisted of two-thirds of the present-day Yemen. However, Aden became a province within the British Raj in 1937. After the collapse of Aden Protectorate, the state of emergency was declared in 1963 when the National Liberation Front (NLF) and the Front for the Liberation of Occupied South Yemen (FLOSY) rebelled against British rule.\n\nThe Federation of South Arabia and the Protectorate of South Arabia merged to become South Yemen on 30 November 1967 and became a Marxist socialist republic in 1970 supported by the Soviet Union. Despite its efforts to bring stability into the region, it was involved in a brief civil war in 1986. With the collapse of communism, South Yemen was unified with the Yemen Arab Republic (commonly known as \"North Yemen\") on 22 May 1990, to form the present-day Yemen. After four years, however, South Yemen declared its secession from the north, which resulted in the north occupying south Yemen and the 1994 civil war. Another attempt to restore South Yemen continues on since 2017.\n\nIn 1838, Sultan Muhsin Bin Fadl of the state of Lahej ceded 194 km² (75 sq. miles) including Aden to the British. On 19 January 1839, the British East India Company landed Royal Marines at Aden to occupy the territory and stop attacks by pirates against British shipping to India. It then became an important trading hub between British India and the Red Sea, and following the opening of the Suez canal in 1869, it became a coaling station for ships en route to India. Aden was ruled as part of British India until 1937, when the city of Aden became the Colony of Aden. The Aden hinterland and Hadhramaut to the east formed the remainder of what would become South Yemen and was not administered directly by Aden but were tied to Britain by treaties of protection with local rulers of traditional polities that, together, became known as the Aden Protectorate. Economic development was largely centered in Aden, and while the city flourished, the states of the Aden Protectorate stagnated.\n\nIn 1963, Aden and much of the Protectorate were joined to form the Federation of South Arabia with the remaining states that declined to join, mainly in Hadhramaut, forming the separate Protectorate of South Arabia. Both of these polities were still tied to Britain with promises of total independence in 1968.\nTwo nationalist groups, the Front for the Liberation of Occupied South Yemen (FLOSY) and the National Liberation Front (NLF), began an armed struggle known as the Aden Emergency on 14 October 1963 against British control and, with the temporary closure of the Suez Canal in 1967, the British began to withdraw. One faction, NLF, was invited to the Geneva Talks to sign the independence agreement with the British. However, Britain - who during its occupation of Aden signed several treaties of protection with the local sheikhdoms and emirates of the Federation of South Arabia - excluded them in the talks and thus the agreement stated \"...the handover of the territory of South Arabia to the (Yemeni) NLF...\". Southern Yemen became independent as the People's Republic of Southern Yemen on 30 November 1967, and the National Liberation Front consolidated its control in the country.\n\nIn June 1969, a radical Marxist wing of the NLF gained power and on 1 December 1970, reorganized the country into the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY). Subsequently, all political parties were amalgamated into the National Liberation Front, renamed the Yemeni Socialist Party, which became the only legal party. The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen established close ties with the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, and the Palestinian Liberation Organization. East Germany's constitution of 1968 even served as a kind of blueprint for the PDRY's first constitution.\n\nThe major communist powers assisted in the building of the PDRY's armed forces. Strong support from Moscow resulted in Soviet naval forces gaining access to naval facilities in South Yemen.\n\nUnlike the early decades of East Germany and West Germany, North Korea and South Korea, or North Vietnam and South Vietnam, North Yemen (YAR) and South Yemen (PDRY) remained relatively friendly, though relations were often strained. Fighting broke out in 1972, and a short-lived, small proxy border conflict was resolved with negotiations, where it was declared unification would eventually occur.\n\nHowever, these plans were put on hold in 1979, as the PDRY funded Red rebels in the YAR, and war was only prevented by an Arab League intervention. The goal of unity was reaffirmed by the northern and southern heads of state during a summit meeting in Kuwait in March 1979.\n\nIn 1980, PDRY president Abdul Fattah Ismail resigned and went into exile in Moscow, having lost the confidence of his sponsors in the USSR. His successor, Ali Nasir Muhammad, took a less interventionist stance toward both North Yemen and neighbouring Oman.\n\nOn January 13, 1986, a violent struggle began in Aden between Ali Nasir's supporters and supporters of the returned Ismail, who wanted power back. Fighting, known as the South Yemen Civil War, lasted for more than a month and resulted in thousands of casualties, Ali Nasir's ouster, and Ismail's death. Some 60,000 people, including the deposed Ali Nasir, fled to the YAR. Ali Salim al-Beidh, an ally of Ismail who had succeeded in escaping the attack on pro-Ismail members of the Politburo, then became General Secretary of the Yemeni Socialist Party.\n\nAgainst the background of the perestroika in the USSR, the main backer of the PDRY, political reforms were started in the late 1980s. Political prisoners were released, political parties were formed and the system of justice was reckoned to be more equitable than in the North. In May 1988, the YAR and PDRY governments came to an understanding that considerably reduced tensions including agreement to renew discussions concerning unification, to establish a joint oil exploration area along their undefined border, to demilitarize the border, and to allow Yemenis unrestricted border passage on the basis of only a national identification card. In 1990, the parties reached a full agreement on joint governing of Yemen, and the countries were effectively merged as Yemen.\n\nSince 2007, some Southerners have been actively protesting for independence, in a movement known as 'Al Hirak' or the Southern Movement. During the Yemen Civil War 2015, in response to incursions by the Houthis and military forces loyal to deposed Yemeni president Ali Abdullah Saleh, members of the Southern Movement formed 'Popular Resistance' militias. Since the Battle of Aden, these armed groups have sought to defend the South against Houthi/Saleh attempts to take over the country and have taken the current state of civil war as opportunity to further their struggle for independence.\n\nIn late January 2018, separatists loyal to the Southern Transitional Council successfully seized control of the Saudi-backed Yemeni government headquarters in Aden in an apparent coup d'etat against the Hadi government.\n\nSouth Yemen's ethnic groups are Arabs (92.8%), Somalis (3.7%), Blacks 1.1%, Indians and Pakistanis (1%), and other (1.4%) (2000).\nThe only recognized political party in South Yemen was the Yemeni Socialist Party, which ran the country and the economy along self-described Marxist lines, modeled on the Soviet Union.\n\nThe constitution prescribed universal suffrage.\n\nThe Supreme People's Council was appointed by the General Command of the National Liberation Front in 1971.\n\nIn Aden, there was a structured judicial system with a supreme court.\n\nEducation was paid for through general taxation.\n\nThere was no housing crisis in South Yemen. Surplus housing built by the British meant that there were few homeless people in Aden, and people built their own houses out of adobe and mud in the rural areas.\n\nSouth Yemen developed as a Marxist, mostly secular society ruled first by the National Liberation Front, which later morphed into the ruling Yemeni Socialist Party. The only avowedly Marxist nation in the Middle East, South Yemen received significant foreign aid and other assistance from the USSR and East Germany, which stationed several hundred officers of the Stasi in the country to train the nation's secret police and establish another arms trafficking route to Palestine. The East Germans didn't leave until 1990, when the Yemeni government declined to pay their salaries which had been terminated with the dissolution of the Stasi during German reunification.\n\nIn 1976, the South Yemen national football team participated in the Asia Cup, where the team lost to Iraq 1-0 and to Iran 8-0. They entered their only World Cup qualification campaign in 1986 and were knocked out in the first round by Bahrain. On September 2, 1965, South Yemen played their first international match against the United Arab Republic, to whom they lost 14-0. On November 5, 1989, South Yemen played its last international match against Guinea, to whom they lost 1-0. The team stopped playing when the North and South united in 1990 to form the modern state of Yemen.\n\nIn 1988, the South Yemen Olympic team made its debut in Seoul. Sending only eight athletes, the country won no medals. This was the only time the country went to the Olympics until unification in 1990.\n\nFollowing independence, South Yemen was divided into six governorates (Arabic sg. \"muhafazah\"), with roughly natural boundaries, each given a name by numeral. From 1967 to 1978, they were named officially by numerals only; from 1979 to 1990, they were given new official names. The islands: Kamaran (until 1972, when it was seized by North Yemen), Perim (Meyun), Socotra, Abd-el-Kuri, Samha (inhabited), Darsah and others uninhabited from the Socotra archipelago were districts (\"mudiriyah\") of the First/Aden Governorate being under Prime-Minister of the state supervision.\n\nThere was little industrial output, or mineral wealth exploitation, in South Yemen, until the mid-1980s, following the discovery of significant petroleum reserves in the central regions near Shibam and Mukalla. The main sources of income were agriculture, mostly fruit, cereal crops, cattle and sheep, fishing and later, oil exports.\n\nThe national budget was 13.43 million dinars in 1976, and the gross national product was US$150 million. The total national debt was $52.4 million.\n\nThe following airlines had operated from the PDRY:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27624291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27624291", "title": "Terrae Incognitae (journal)", "text": "Terrae Incognitae (journal)\n\nTerrae Incognitae is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal covering the history of cartography, geography, and exploration. It is published by the Society for the History of Discoveries.\n"}
{"id": "16339156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16339156", "title": "Tibesti-Jebel Uweinat montane xeric woodlands", "text": "Tibesti-Jebel Uweinat montane xeric woodlands\n\nThe Tibesti-Jebel Uweinat montane xeric woodlands ecoregion, in the deserts and xeric shrublands biome, is located in the eastern Sahara. The woodlands ecoregion occupy two separate highland regions, covering portions of northern Chad, southwestern Egypt, southern Libya, and northwestern Sudan.\n\nThe ecoregion covers in the volcanic Tibesti Mountains of Chad and Libya, and 1932-m peak of Jebel Uweinat on the border of Egypt, Libya, and Sudan. The climate is arid and subtropical, but can reach 0°C at the highest altitudes during the winter. Rainfall is irregular but more regular than the surrounding desert and may of the lower wadis are watered by rain which falls higher up.\n\nThe Tibesti (and to a lesser extent the Jebel Uweinat massif) foster higher, more regular rainfall and cooler temperatures than the surrounding Sahara. This supports woodlands and shrublands of date palm (\"Phoenix dactylifera\"), acacias, Saharan Myrtle (\"Myrtus nivellei\"), oleander (\"Nerium oleander\"), tamarix, and several endemic and rare plant species, such as \"Ficus teloukat\". The northern slopes are humid enough to support wetland species such as \"Juncus maritimus\", \"Typha australis\", \"Scirpus holoschoenus\", \"Phragmites australis\" and \"Equisetum ramosissimum\".\n\nThe ecoregion supports, or supported, populations of several important Saharan large mammals. One, the scimitar-horned oryx \"Oryx dammah\" is now believed to be extinct in the wild, while the addax \"Addax nasomaculatus\" is critically endangered. Other species include dorcas gazelle \"Gazella dorcas\" which is assessed as vulnerable, dama gazelle \"Nanger dama\" which is endangered, Barbary sheep \"Ammotragus lervia\" which is vulnerable and cheetah \"Acinonyx jubatus\" which is vulnerable. In 2000 Barbary sheep and dama gaxelle were recorded in the Jebel Uweinat portion of the ecoregion. \n\nSmaller mammals are abundant, including rock hyrax \"Procavia capensis\", Cape hare \"Lepus capensis\", many mice, gerbils and jirds' and three species of fox, Rüppell's fox \"Vulpes rueppelli\", pale fox \"Vulpes pallida\" and fennec fox \"Fennecus zerda\". Other predators are found in the region including a relict population of African wild dog \"Lycaon pictus\" as well as striped hyena \"Hyaena hyaena\" and golden jackal \"Canis aureus\", primarily in the southern portion of the region.\n\nIn habitats dominated by \"Schouwia\" and \"Tribulus terrestris\" in the wadis of this region, have an important role in the life cycle of the desert locust. This is where the female locusts lay their eggs, as the soil is moist and when the locust nymphs emerge, the leaves of \"Schouwia\" and \"Tribulus\" are fed on, allowing the nymphs to get enough food and water to mature. In some years, if conditions are right they can amass into large swarms, eventually becoming a plague which can reach distant areas of Africa and Europe, and have a huge economic impact by destroying crops. \n"}
{"id": "319146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319146", "title": "Timeline of United Nations peacekeeping missions", "text": "Timeline of United Nations peacekeeping missions\n\nThe United Nations has authorized 71 peacekeeping operations as of April 2018. These do not include interventions authorized by the UN like the Korean War and the Gulf War. The 1990s saw the most UN peacekeeping operations to date. Peacekeeping operations are overseen by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations (DPKO) and share some common characteristics, namely the inclusion of a military or police component, often with an authorization for use of force under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. Peacekeeping operations are distinct from special political missions (SPMs), which are overseen by the Department of Political Affairs (DPA). SPMs are not included in the table below. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "57371976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57371976", "title": "Tirona Highway", "text": "Tirona Highway\n\nThe Tirona Highway is a two-to-four lane, primary highway in Cavite, Philippines.. The road was named for Filipino revolutionary leader Daniel Tirona.\n\nThe road is a component of the National Route 62 (N62) of the Philippine highway network.\n\n"}
{"id": "47308141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47308141", "title": "Triangolo lariano", "text": "Triangolo lariano\n\nThe Triangolo lariano is a geographic area in Lombardy (Italy) within the Province of Como. It is represented by a territorial intermediate institution named \" del Triangolo lariano\", with base in Canzo.\n\nThere are three big lakes in Italy who reach a depth of more than 300 metres and cover an area of hundreds of square kilometres. They are aligned west-east, since they all are within the pre-alpine zone of Lombardy region. The most west is the Lake Maggiore, and it marks the boundary with the region of Piedmont; the most east is Lake Garda, marking the boundary with the region of Veneto; the central one is Lake Como.\n\nIt is distinguishable from its characteristic shape of an upside-down “Y” or a Greek letter “λ”. The triangle formed by the two diagonal branches of the lake is named in Italian \"Triangolo lariano\". This phrase is composed by the noun \"triangolo\" (= triangle) and the adjective \"lariano\", meaning “related to the Larius”, the Latin name of Lake Como.\n\nIt consists in a peninsula – whose end is the village of Bellagio –, but it can be considered as quite an island, because the third side of the triangle (not occupied by the Lake Como) is dotted with seven smaller lakes. The touristic town of Canzo lies at the center of the \"Triangolo lariano\" and is the chief town of the \"Comunità montana del Triangolo lariano\" (literally, “Mountain community of \"Triangolo lariano\"”), a territorial institution who brings together the 31 municipalities of the peninsula, of about 71,000 inhabitants.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the territory of \"Triangolo lariano\" was divided into four main institutions, three of which was part of the State of Milan; one, instead, was under the rule of the Commune of Como:\n\nThe “Triangle” has an altitude between 320 and 1,682 m.a.s.l. The most famous mountains are: Corni di Canzo (Canzo’s Horns) (1,372 m) and Mount Cornizzolo (1,241 m), both in Canzo, divided by Mount Raj (1,261 m), also in Canzo, as a tourist destination because of the variety and attractiveness of the landscape; Mount San Primo (1,682 m) and Mount Palanzone (1,436 m) for their highness. Mount Bollettone (1,317 m) too, for its proximity to Como, is often visited.\n\nThe seven small lakes forming the southern border of the region are: Lake of Pusiano, Lake of Annone (divided into \"Lake of Annone\" strictly said and Lake of Oggiono), Lake of Garlate, Lake of Alserio, Lake of Montorfano, and, finally, the Lake Segrino – placed in the southern border of the land of Canzo –, a marvelous little glacial lake, celebrated by several authors and poets.\n\n\"Triangolo lariano\" is also the name of a Special Protection Area (593 hectares) protected by European laws, located in the Corni di Canzo (Horns of Canzo). Its protection concerns 84 precious bird species (including the honey buzzard, the peregrine falcon, the rock partridge, the eagle owl, the nightjar, the tawny pipit, the red-backed shrike, and the ortolan bunting) and the habitats, e.g. the natural dry grasslands and scrubland facies on calcareous substrates (Festuco-Brometalia) – with significant blossoming of orchids –, the limestone pavements and the petrifying springs with tufa formation (Cratoneurion), and the calcareous beech forests of Central Europe Cephalanthero-Fagion. Inside is another nature reserve, the Site of Community Importance “\"Sasso Malascarpa\"\" (328 hectares), with 52 protected species, among which are the greater horseshoe bat, various kinds of backed shrike, and the rare white-clawed crayfish. A peculiar habitat of the reserve consists in the stone springs with travertine formation. The alternation of woods, meadows–pastures, and rock formations in the mountains of Canzo, makes the landscape particularly popular for tourism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5922675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5922675", "title": "United Nations geoscheme for the Americas", "text": "United Nations geoscheme for the Americas\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of subregions in the United Nations geoscheme for the Americas.\n\nIn this scheme, the continent of North America is divided into the subregions of Northern America, Caribbean, and Central America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2040058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2040058", "title": "Valley of Mexico", "text": "Valley of Mexico\n\nThe Valley of Mexico (; ) is a highlands plateau in central Mexico roughly coterminous with present-day Mexico City and the eastern half of the State of Mexico. Surrounded by mountains and volcanoes, the Valley of Mexico was a centre for several pre-Columbian civilizations, including Teotihuacan, the Toltec, and the Aztec. The ancient Aztec term \"Anahuac (Land Between the Waters) \" and the phrase Basin of Mexico are both used at times to refer to the Valley of Mexico. The Basin of Mexico became a well known site that epitomized the scene of early Classic Mesoamerican cultural development as well.\n\nThe Valley of Mexico is located in the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt.\nThe valley contains most of the Mexico City Metropolitan Area, as well as parts of the State of Mexico, Hidalgo, Tlaxcala and Puebla. The Valley of Mexico can be subdivided into four basins, but the largest and most-studied is the area which contains Mexico City. This section of the valley in particular is colloquially referred to as the \"Valley of Mexico\".\nThe valley has a minimum elevation of above sea level and is surrounded by mountains and volcanoes that reach elevations of over . It is an enclosed valley with no natural outlet for water to flow and a gap to the north where there is a high mesa but no high mountain peaks. Within this vulnerable watershed all the native fishes were extinct by the end of the 20th century. Hydrologically, the valley has three features. The first feature is the lakebeds of five now-extinct lakes, which are located in the southernmost and largest of the four sub-basins. The other two features are piedmont, and the mountainsides that collect the precipitation that eventually flows to the lake area. These last two are found in all four of the sub-basins of the valley. Today, the Valley drains through a series of artificial canals to the Tula River, and eventually the Pánuco River and the Gulf of Mexico. Seismic activity is frequent here, and the valley is considered an earthquake prone zone.\n\nThe valley has been inhabited for at least 12,000 years, attracting humans with its mild climate (average temperatures between 12 and 15 °C, or 54 and 59 °F), abundant game and ability to support large-scale agriculture. Civilizations that have arisen in this area include the Teotihuacan (800 BC to 800 AD) the Toltec Empire (10th to 13th century) and the Aztec Empire (1325 to 1521). When the Spaniards arrived in the Valley of Mexico, it had one of the highest population concentrations in the world with about one million people. After the Conquest, the Spaniards rebuilt the largest and most dominant city here, Tenochtitlan, renaming it Mexico City. The valley used to contain five lakes called Lake Zumpango, Lake Xaltocan, Lake Xochimilco, Lake Chalco, and the largest, Texcoco covering about of the valley floor, but as the Spaniards expanded Mexico City, they began to drain the lakes' waters to control flooding. Although violence and disease significantly lowered the population of the valley after the Conquest, by 1900 it was again over one million people. The 20th and 21st centuries have seen an explosion of population in the valley along with the growth of industry. Since 1900, the population has doubled every fifteen years. Today, around 21 million people live in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area which extends throughout almost all of the valley into the states of Mexico and Hidalgo.\n\nThe growth of a major urban, industrial centre in an enclosed basin has created significant air and water quality issues for the valley. Wind patterns and thermal inversions trap contaminants in the valley. Over-extraction of ground water has caused new flooding problems for the city as it sinks below the historic lake floor. This causes stress on the valley's drainage system, requiring new tunnels and canals to be built.\n\nThe Valley of Mexico attracted early humans because the region was rich in biodiversity and had the capacity of growing substantial crops. Generally speaking, humans in Mesoamerica, including central Mexico, began to leave a hunter-gatherer existence in favor of agriculture sometime between the end of the Pleistocene epoch and the beginning of the Holocene. The oldest known human settlement in the Valley of Mexico is located in Tlapacoya, located on what was the edge of Lake Chalco in the southeast corner of the valley in contemporary Mexico State. There is reliable archeological evidence to suggest that the site dates as far back as 12,000 BC. After 10,000 BC, the number of artifacts found increases significantly. There are also other early sites such as those in Tepexpan, Los Reyes Acozac, San Bartolo Atepehuacan, Chimalhuacán and Los Reyes La Paz but they remain undated. Human remains and artifacts such as obsidian blades have been found at the Tlapacoya site that have been dated as far back as 20,000 BC, when the valley was semi-arid and contained species like camels, bison and horses that could be hunted by man. However, the precise dating of these artifacts has been disputed.\n\nGiant Columbian mammoths once populated the area, and the valley contains the most extensive mammoth kill sites in Mexico. Most of the sites are located on what were the shores of Lake Texcoco in the north of the Federal District and the adjacent municipalities of Mexico State such as in Santa Isabel Ixtapan, Los Reyes Acozac, Tepexpan and Tlanepantla. Mammoth bones are still occasionally found in farmland here. They have been discovered in many parts of the Federal District itself, particularly during the construction of the city's Metro lines and in the neighborhoods of Del Valle in the center, Lindavista to the center-north and Coyoacán in the south of the city. The symbol for Line 4's Bondojito station of the Mexico City Metro is a mammoth, due to the fact that so many bones were uncovered during its construction. However, the richest site for mammoth remains in the valley is at the Paleontological Museum in Tocuila, a site located near the town of Texcoco in Mexico State. Although there is some evidence around the old lakeshores that the first populations here survived by hunting, gathering and possibly by scavenging, but evidence from this time period is scarce.\n\nTlatilco was a large pre-Columbian village and culture in the Valley of Mexico situated near the modern-day town of the same name in the Mexican Federal District. It was one of the first significant population centers to arise in the valley, flourishing on the western shore of Lake Texcoco during the Middle Pre-Classic period, between 1200 BC and 200 BC. It was originally classified as a necropolis when it was first excavated, but it was determined that the many burials there were under houses of which nothing remains. It was then classified as a major chiefdom center. The Tlatilcans were an agricultural people growing beans, amaranth, squash and chili peppers, reaching their peak from 1000 to 700 BC.\n\nThe next-oldest confirmed civilization is in the far south of the valley and is called Cuicuilco. This archaeological site is located where Avenida Insurgentes Sur crosses the Anillo Periférico in the Tlalpan borough of the city. The old settlement once extended far beyond the boundaries of the current site, but it is buried under lava from one of the volcanic eruptions that led to its demise, and much of the modern city is built over this lava. The settlement was located where an old river delta used to form in the valley with waters from Mount Zacatépetl located in what is now the Tlalpan Forest. Cuicuilco was believed to have reached city status by 1200 BC and began to decline around 100 BC - AD 150. However, even though the ceremonial pyramid was abandoned, the site remained a location to leave offerings up to AD 400, although lava from the nearby Xitle volcano completely covered it.\n\nAround 2,000 years ago, the Valley of Mexico became one of the world's most densely populated areas and has remained so since. After the decline of Cuicuilco, the population concentration shifted north, to the city of Teotihuacan and later to Tula, both outside the lake's region of the valley. Teotihuacan became an organized village around 800 BC but it was around 200 BC that it began to reach its height. When it did, the city had approximately 125,000 inhabitants and covered of territory. It was dedicated primarily to the obsidian trade and at its peak was an important religious center and pilgrimage for the valley. In the early 8th century, with the rise of the Toltec empire, Teotihuacan ceased to be a major urban centre and the population shifted to Tollan or Tula on the northern front of Valley of Mexico.\n\nAfter the end of the Toltec empire in the 13th century and the decline of the city of Tula, the population shifted once again, this time to the lakes region of the valley. With this migration came the concept of a city-state based on the Toltec model. By the end of the 13th century, some fifty small urban units, semi-autonomous and with their own religious centers, had sprung up around the lakeshores of the valley. These remained intact with a population of about 10,000 each under Aztec rule and survived into the colonial period. All of these city-states, including the largest and most powerful, Tenochtitlan, with more than 150,000 inhabitants, claimed descent from the Toltecs. None of these cities was completely autonomous or self-sufficient, resulting in a conflictive political situation, and a complex system of agriculture in the valley. These city-states had similar governmental structures based on the need to control flooding and store water for irrigating crops. Many of the institutions created by these hydraulic societies, such as the building and maintenance of chinampas, aqueducts and dikes, were later co-opted by the Spanish during the colonial period.\n\nThe largest and most dominant city at the time of the Spanish conquest was Tenochtitlan. It was founded by the Mexica (Aztecs) on a small island in the western part of Lake Texcoco in 1325, and was extended with the use of chinampas, human-made extensions of agricultural land into the southern lake system, to increase productive agricultural land, covering about . The inhabitants controlled the lake with a sophisticated system of dikes, canals and sluices. Much of the surrounding land in the valley was terraced and farmed as well, with a network of aqueducts channeling fresh water from springs in the mountainsides into the city itself. Despite being the dominant power, the need to rely on resources from other parts of the valley led to the Aztec Triple Alliance between Tenochtitlan, Texcoco and Tlacopan at the beginning of the empire. However, by the time the Spanish arrived in 1519, Tenochtitlan had become the dominant power of the three, causing grievances that the Spaniards were able to exploit. However, despite Tenochtitlan's power outside the valley, it never completely controlled all of the valley itself, with the altepetl of Tlaxcala the most prominent example.\n\nBy 1520, the estimated population of the valley was over 1,000,000 people.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest of the Aztec empire in 1521, the Spanish rebuilt and renamed Tenochtitlan as Mexico City. They started with essentially the same size and layout as the Aztec city but as the centuries progressed, the city grew as the lakes shrank. Just after the conquest, disease and violence had decreased the population in the valley, especially of the native peoples, but after that, the population grew all through the colonial period and in the century after independence.\n\nBy the early 20th century, the population of Mexico City alone had risen to over one million people. A population explosion began early in the 20th century, with the population of the city itself doubling approximately every 15 years since 1900, partly attributed to the fact that the federal government has favored development of the metropolitan area over other areas of the country. This has spurred investment in infrastructure for the city, such as electricity, other power sources, water supply and drainage. These have attracted businesses which in turn have attracted more population. Since the 1950s, urbanization has spread out from beyond the bounds of the Federal District to the surrounding jurisdictions, especially to the north into the State of Mexico making for the Mexico City Metropolitan area, which fills most of the valley. Today, this metropolitan area accounts for 45 per cent of the country's industrial activity, 38 percent of GNP, and 25 percent of the population. Much of its industry is concentrated in the northern part of the Federal District and the adjoining cities in the state of Mexico. While population growth has slowed and even declined in the city proper, the outer limits of the metropolitan area keep growing. Much of this growth has occurred on the mountainsides of the valley, in the form of illegal settlements in ecologically sensitive areas. Overall urban settlement in the valley has expanded from about in 1940 to in 1990. The metropolitan area has about 21 million residents and about 6 million cars.\n\nMexico City is vulnerable to severe air pollution problems due to its altitude, its being surrounded by mountains and the winds patterns of the area. The altitude, with its low oxygen levels, makes for poor combustion of fossil fuels leading to unsafe levels of nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, and carbon monoxide. The valley is surrounded by mountain ranges with one small opening to the north. The surrounding mountains and climate patterns here make it difficult to clear out the smog produced. The valley has internal wind patterns which circulate around the valley without a prevailing wind to push contaminants in a single direction. The most significant climatic phenomena here is \"thermal inversion,\" which is prevalent in the winter months when the cooler air of the valley is trapped by relatively warmer air above. Adding to this is that prevailing winds outside the valley move from north to south, in through the Valley's one opening, where incidentally most of the region's industry is located. These factors diminish in the summer and the situation is helped by the arrival of the rainy season, but the valley's southern latitude and the abundance of sunlight allows for dangerous levels of ozone and other dangerous compounds.\nWhile still considered one of the most polluted places on the planet, the valley's air pollution problems are not as bad as they were several decades ago. One major problem that was brought under control was the lead contamination in the air with the introduction of unleaded gasoline. Two other contaminants that have been brought under control are carbon monoxide and sulfur dioxide. The contamination problems that remain are primarily with ozone and fine particles (soot) (between 2.5 micrometers and 10 micrometers). Thirty to fifty percent of the time, Mexico City's levels of fine particles of ten micrometers, the most dangerous, exceed levels recommended by the World Health Organization.\nIn the 1940s, before large-scale burning of fossil fuels in the area, the visibility of the valley was about , allowing for daily viewing of the mountain ranges that surround the valley, including the snow-capped volcanoes of Popocatepetl and Iztaccihuatl. Since that time, the average visibility has come down to about . Mountain peaks are now rarely visible from the city itself. While reduced visibility in the valley was due to sulfur emissions in the past, it is now due to fine particles in the air.\n\nThe effects on humans living in an enclosed, contaminated environment have been documented, especially by Nobel Prize winner Dr Mario J. Molina. He claims fine particle pollution is the greatest concern because of lung damage. According to him, the city's residents lose about 2.5 million working days every year due to health problems associated with fine particles.\n\nThe Valley of Mexico is a closed basin which geologically divides into three hydrologic zones, the low plain, which is essentially the bed of now-extinct lakes, the piedmont area and the surrounding mountains. The old lakebeds correspond to the lowest elevations of the valley in the south are mostly clay with a high water content and are almost entirely covered by urban development. In the piedmont area, these clays become mixed with silts and sands, and in some areas close to the mountains, the piedmont is largely composed of basalt from old lava flows. The valley is enclosed completely by mountain ranges, from which flow rain and melting snow into the valley's hydraulic system. This groundwater flow produces a number of springs in the foothills and upwellings in the valley floor. This underground flow is the source of the five aquifers that provide much of the drinking water to Mexico City located in Soltepec, Apan, Texcoco, Chalco-Amecameca and underneath Mexico City itself.\n\nBefore the 20th century, the Mexico City portion of the valley contained a series of lakes, with saline lakes to the north near the town of Texcoco and freshwater ones to the south. The five lakes, Zumpango, Xaltoca, Xochimilco, Chalco, and the largest, Texcoco used to cover about of the basin floor. Small mountains such as the Sierra de Guadalupe and Mount Chiconaultla partially separated the lakes from each other. All the other lakes flowed toward the lower Lake Texcoco, which was saline due to evaporation. The lakes were fed by a number of rivers such as the San Joaquin, San Antonio Abad, Tacubaya, Becerra, Mixcoac and Magdalena Contreras, carrying runoff and snowmelt from the mountains.\n\nLong before the arrival of the Spanish, the lake system had been shrinking due to climate change. Warmer temperatures had increased evaporation and reduced rainfall in the area so that the lakes’ waters were shallow at about five meters (16 ft) deep as early as the Tlapacoya culture, around 10,000 BCE. During the Aztec Empire, the northern lakes were inaccessible by canoe during the dry season from October to May.\n\nFor 2000 years, humans have been interfering with and altering the hydraulic conditions of the valley, especially in the lakes region. The Aztecs built dikes for flood control and to separate the saline water of the northern lakes from the fresh water of the southern ones. After the destruction of Tenochtitlan in 1521, the Spaniards rebuilt the Aztec dikes but found they did not offer enough flood protection.\n\nThe arrival of the Spanish and subsequent efforts to drain the area for flood control was a major infrastructure project, called the , was pursued the entire colonial period.\n\nThe idea of opening drainage canals first came about after a flood of the colonial city in 1555. The first canal was begun in 1605 to drain the waters of Lake Zumpango north through Huehuetoca which would also divert waters from the Cuautitlán River away from the lakes and toward the Tula River. This project was undertaken by Enrico Martínez and he devoted 25 years of his life to it. He did succeed in building a canal in this area, calling it Nochistongo, leading waters to the Tula Valley, but the drainage was not sufficient to avoid the Great Flood of 1629 in the city. Another canal, which would be dubbed the \"Grand Canal\" was built parallel to the Nochistongo one ending in Tequixquiac. The Grand Canal consists of one main canal, which measures in diameter and long. The drainage project was continued after independence, with three secondary canals, built between 1856 and 1867. During the presidency of Porfirio Díaz (r. 1876–1911) again became a prioirity. Díaz completed it officially in 1894, although work continued thereafter. Despite the Grand Canal's drainage capacity, it did not solve the problem of flooding in the city.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 20th century, Mexico City began to sink rapidly and pumps needed to be installed in the Grand Canal, which before had drained the valley purely with gravity. Along with the pumps, the Grand Canal was expanded with a new tunnel through the low mountains called the Xalpa to take the canal past Tequisquiac. Even so, the city still suffered floods in 1950 and 1951. Despite its age, the Grand Canal can still carry out of the valley, but this is significantly less than what it could carry as late as 1975 because continued sinking of the city (as much as ) weakens the system of water collectors and pumps.\n\nAs a result, another tunnel, called the Emisor Central, was built to carry wastewater. Although it is considered the most important pipe in the country, it has been damaged by overuse and corrosion of its diameter walls. Because of lack of maintenance and gradual decrease in this tunnel's ability to carry water, there is concern that this tunnel will soon fail. It is continuously filled with water, making it impossible to inspect it for problems. If it fails, it would most likely be during the rainy season when it carries the most water, which would cause extensive flooding in the historic center, the airport and the boroughs on the east side.\n\nBecause of this, another new drainage project is planned that will cost $1.3 billion USD. The project includes new pumping stations, a new drainage tunnel and repairs to the current system of pipes and tunnels to clear blockages and patch leaks.\n\nOver-pumping of groundwater in the 20th century has hastened the disappearance of the lakes. The old lake beds are almost all paved except for some canals preserved in Xochimilco, mostly for the benefit of visitors who tour them on brightly painted , boats similar to gondolas.\n\nDesiccation has had a major environmental impact on the Valley of Mexico.\n\nHistorically, Mexico City's potable water supply came via aqueduct from the mountain springs on the valley sides like that in Chapultepec as most of the water in Lake Texcoco was saline. These were originally built by the Aztecs and were rebuilt by the Spaniards. In the mid-1850s, potable groundwater was found underneath the city itself, which motivated the large-scale drilling of wells. Today, 70% of Mexico City's water still comes from five principal aquifers in the valley. These aquifers are fed by water from natural springs and runoff from precipitation.\n\nIt was only when the population reached about six million that Mexico City started to need to appropriate water from outside the valley.\nToday, Mexico City faces a serious water deficit. Because of increased demand from a growing population, increasing industry, and ecosystem degradation in the form of deforestation of the surrounding mountains, more water is leaving the system than is entering. It is estimated that of water is needed to support the potable and agricultural irrigation needs of Mexico City's population. The main aquifer is being pumped at a rate of , but is only being replaced at , or about half of the extraction rate, leaving a shortfall of .\nThis over-extraction of groundwater from the old clay lake bed has been causing the land upon which the city rests to collapse and sink. This problem began in the early 20th century as a consequence of the drainage of the valley for flood control. Since the beginning of the 20th century, some areas of Mexico City have sunk nine meters (30 ft). In 1900, the bottom of the lake was three meters (10 ft) lower than the median level of the city center. By 1974, the lake bottom was two meters (7 ft) higher than the city. The first signs of dropping ground water levels was the drying up of natural springs in the 1930s, which coincides with the beginning of intensive exploitation of the aquifer system through wells between deep. Today, Mexico City is sinking between five and forty centimeters (0.2 and 1.3 ft) per year, and its effects are visible. El Ángel de la Independencia (\"The Angel of Independence\") statue, located on Paseo de la Reforma was built in 1910, anchored by a foundation deep beneath what was the surface of the street at that time. However, because the street has sunk around it, steps have been added to allow access to the statue's base.\n\nSubsidence of the valley floor beneath has caused flooding problems as now much of the city has sunk below the natural lake floor. Currently, pumps need to work 24 hours a day all year round to keep control of runoff and wastewater. Despite this, flooding is still common, especially in the summer rainy season, in lower-lying neighborhoods such as Iztapalapa, forcing residents to build miniature dikes in front of their houses to prevent heavily polluted rainwater from entering their homes. Subsidence also causes damage to water and sewer lines, leaving the water distribution system vulnerable to contamination which carries risks to public health.\nMeasures other than drainage have been implemented to contain flooding in the city. In 1950, dikes were built to confine storm runoff. Rivers that run through the city were encapsulated in 1950 and 1951. Rivers such as the Consulado River, Churubusco River and the Remedio River are encased in concrete tunnels which take their waters directly to the drainage system to leave the Valley. Two other rivers, the San Javier and the Tlalnepantla, which used to feed the old lake system, are diverted before they reach the city and their waters now flow directly into the Grand Canal. None of water from these rivers is allowed to sink into the ground to recharge the aquifer. While the rivers and streams that flow down from the mountain peaks still begin the way they always have, their passage through the shantytowns lacking city sanitation schemes that surround Mexico City turns them into open combined sewers. Therefore, their final stages are frequently culverted or added to the existing major culverted rivers to keep this water from contaminating the aquifer.\n\n"}
{"id": "16957065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16957065", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Prince Edward Island", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Prince Edward Island\n\nThe Canadian province of Prince Edward Island first required its residents to register their motor vehicles and display licence plates in 1913.\n\nIn 1956, Canada, the United States and Mexico came to an agreement with the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators, the Automobile Manufacturers Association and the National Safety Council that standardized the size for licence plates for vehicles (except those for motorcycles) at in height by in width, with standardized mounting holes. The first Prince Edward Island licence plate that complied with these standards was issued six years beforehand, in 1950.\n"}
{"id": "184730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184730", "title": "Western Ghats", "text": "Western Ghats\n\nWestern Ghats also known as Sahyadri (Benevolent Mountains) is a mountain range that runs parallel to the western coast of the Indian peninsula, located entirely in India. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is one of the eight \"hottest hot-spots\" of biological diversity in the world. It is sometimes called the Great Escarpment of India. The range runs north to south along the western edge of the Deccan Plateau, and separates the plateau from a narrow coastal plain, called Konkan, along the Arabian Sea. A total of thirty-nine properties including national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and reserve forests were designated as world heritage sites - twenty in Kerala, ten in Karnataka, five in Tamil Nadu and four in Maharashtra.\n\nThe range starts near the Songadh town of Gujarat, south of the Tapti river, and runs approximately through the states of Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu ending at Marunthuvazh Malai, at Swamithope, near the southern tip of India. These hills cover and form the catchment area for complex riverine drainage systems that drain almost 40% of India. The Western Ghats block southwest monsoon winds from reaching the Deccan Plateau. The average elevation is around .\n\nThe area is one of the world's ten \"Hottest biodiversity hotspots\" and has over 7,402 species of flowering plants, 1,814 species of non-flowering plants, 139 mammal species, 508 bird species, 179 amphibian species, 6,000 insects species and 290 freshwater fish species; it is likely that many undiscovered species live in the Western Ghats. At least 325 globally threatened species occur in the Western Ghats.\n\nThe Western Ghats are the mountainous faulted and eroded edge of the Deccan Plateau. Geologic evidence indicates that they were formed during the break-up of the supercontinent of Gondwana some 150 million years ago. Geophysical evidence indicates that the west coast of India came into being somewhere around 100 to 80 mya after it broke away from Madagascar. After the break-up, the western coast of India would have appeared as an abrupt cliff some in elevation. Basalt is the predominant rock found in the hills reaching a thickness of . Other rock types found are charnockites, granite gneiss, khondalites, leptynites, metamorphic gneisses with detached occurrences of crystalline limestone, iron ore, dolerites and anorthosites. Residual laterite and bauxite ores are also found in the southern hills.\n\nThe Western Ghats extend from the Satpura Range in the north, stretching from Gujarat to Tamil Nadu. It traverses south through the states of Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala. Major gaps in the range are the Goa Gap, between the Maharashtra and Karnataka sections, and the Palghat Gap on the Tamil Nadu and Kerala border between the Nilgiri Hills and the Anaimalai Hills. The mountains intercept the rain-bearing westerly monsoon winds, and are consequently an area of high rainfall, particularly on their western side. The dense forests also contribute to the precipitation of the area by acting as a substrate for condensation of moist rising orographic winds from the sea, and releasing much of the moisture back into the air via transpiration, allowing it to later condense and fall again as rain.\n\nThe northern portion of the narrow coastal plain between the Western Ghats and the Arabian Sea is known as the Konkan, the central portion is called Kanara and the southern portion is called Malabar. The foothill region east of the Ghats in Maharashtra is known as Desh, while the eastern foothills of the central Karnataka state is known as Malenadu. The range is known as \"Sahyadri\" in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The Western Ghats meets the Eastern Ghats at Nilgiris in northwestern Tamil Nadu. Nilgiris connects Biligiriranga Hills in southeastern Karnataka with the Shevaroys and Tirumala hills. South of the Palghat Gap are the Anamala Hills, located in western Tamil Nadu and Kerala with smaller ranges further south, including the Cardamom Hills, then Aryankavu pass, Aralvaimozhi pass near Kanyakumari. The range is known as \"Sahyan\" or \"Sahian\" in Kerala. In the southern part of the range is Anamudi (), the highest peak in Western Ghats.\n\nWestern Ghats has many peaks that rise above 2,000 meters with Anamudi() being the highest peak.\n\nThe Western Ghats form one of the four watersheds of India, feeding the perennial rivers of India. The major river systems originating in the Western Ghats are Godavari, Kaveri, Krishna, Thamiraparani and Tungabhadra. The majority of streams draining the Western Ghats join these rivers, and carry large volume of water during the monsoon months. These rivers flow to the east due to the gradient of the land and drain out into the Bay of Bengal. Major tributaries include Kali, Bhadra, Bhavani, Bhima, Malaprabha, Ghataprabha, Hemavathi and Kabini. The Periyar, Bharathappuzha, Pamba, Netravati, Sharavathi, Mandovi and Zuari rivers flow westwards towards the Western Ghats, draining into the Arabian Sea and are fast-moving, owing to the steeper gradient.\n\nThe rivers have been dammed for hydroelectric and irrigation purposes with major reservoirs spread across the states. The reservoirs are important for their commercial and sport fisheries of rainbow trout, mahseer and common carp. There are about 50 major dams along the length of the Western Ghats. Most notable of these projects are the Koyna in Maharashtra, Linganmakki and Shivanasamudra in Karnataka, Mettur and Pykara in Tamil Nadu, Parambikulam, Malampuzha and Idukki in Kerala\n\nDuring the monsoon season, numerous streams fed by incessant rain drain off the mountain sides leading to numerous waterfalls. Major waterfalls include Dudhsagar, Unchalli,\nSathodi, Magod, Hogenakkal, Jog, Kunchikal, Shivanasamudra, Meenmutty Falls, Athirappilly Falls. Talakaveri is the source of the river Kaveri and the Kuduremukha range is the source of the Tungabhadra. Western Ghats have several man-made lakes and reservoirs with major lakes at Ooty () in Nilgiris, Kodaikanal () and Berijam in Palani Hills, Pookode lake, Karlad Lake in Wayanad, Vagamon lake, Devikulam () and Letchmi () in Idukki, Kerala.\n\nClimate in the Western Ghats varies with altitudinal gradation and distance from the equator. The climate is humid and tropical in the lower reaches tempered by the proximity to the sea. Elevations of and above in the north and and above in the south have a more temperate climate. Average annual temperature is around . In some parts frost is common, and temperatures touch the freezing point during the winter months. Mean temperature range from in the south to in the north. It has also been observed that the coldest periods in the South Western Ghats coincide with the wettest.\n\nDuring the monsoon season between June and September, the unbroken Western Ghats chain acts as a barrier to the moisture laden clouds. The heavy, eastward-moving rain-bearing clouds are forced to rise and in the process deposit most of their rain on the windward side. Rainfall in this region averages to with localised extremes touching . The eastern region of the Western Ghats which lie in the rain shadow, receive far less rainfall of about resulting in an average rainfall of across regions. The total amount of rain does not depend on the spread of the area with areas in northern Maharashtra receiving heavy rainfall followed by long dry spells, while regions closer to the equator receive less annual rainfall and have rain spells lasting several months in a year.\n\nThe Western Ghats are home to four tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregions – the North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests, North Western Ghats montane rain forests, South Western Ghats moist deciduous forests, and South Western Ghats montane rain forests. The northern portion of the range is generally drier than the southern portion, and at lower elevations makes up the North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests ecoregion, with mostly deciduous forests made up predominantly of teak. Above 1,000 meters elevation are the cooler and wetter North Western Ghats montane rain forests, whose evergreen forests are characterised by trees of family \"Lauraceae\".\n\nThe evergreen forests in Wayanad mark the transition zone between the northern and southern ecologic regions of the Western Ghats. The southern ecologic regions are generally wetter and more species-rich. At lower elevations are the South Western Ghats moist deciduous forests, with \"Cullenia\" the characteristic tree genus, accompanied by teak, dipterocarps, and other trees. The moist forests transition to the drier South Deccan Plateau dry deciduous forests, which lie in its rain shadow to the east. Above 1,000 meters are the South Western Ghats montane rain forests, also cooler and wetter than the surrounding lowland forests, and dominated by evergreen trees, although some montane grasslands and stunted forests can be found at the highest elevations. The South Western Ghats montane rain forests are the most species-rich ecologic region in peninsular India; eighty percent of the flowering plant species of the entire Western Ghats range are found in this ecologic region.\n\nHistorically the Western Ghats were well-covered in dense forests that provided wild foods and natural habitats for native tribal people. Its inaccessibility made it difficult for people from the plains to cultivate the land and build settlements. After the arrival of the British in the area, large swathes of territory were cleared for agricultural plantations and timber. The forest in the Western Ghats has been severely fragmented due to human activities, especially clear felling for tea, coffee, and teak plantations during 1860 to 1950. Species that are rare, endemic and habitat specialists are more adversely affected and tend to be lost faster than other species. Complex and species rich habitats like the tropical rainforest are much more adversely affected than other habitats.\n\nThe area is ecologically sensitive to development and was declared an ecological hotspot in 1988 through the efforts of ecologist Norman Myers. The area covers five percent of India's land with 27% of all species of higher plants in India (4,000 of 15,000 species) are found here and 1,800 of these are endemic to the region. The range is home to at least 84 amphibian species, 16 bird species, seven mammals, and 1,600 flowering plants which are not found elsewhere in the world. The Government of India established many protected areas including 2 biosphere reserves, 13 National parks to restrict human access, several wildlife sanctuaries to protect specific endangered species and many Reserve Forests, which are all managed by the forest departments of their respective state to preserve some of the ecoregions still undeveloped. The Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve comprising of the evergreen forests of Nagarahole and deciduous forests of Bandipur in Karnataka, adjoining regions of Wayanad-Mukurthi in Kerala and Mudumalai National Park-Sathyamangalam in Tamil Nadu forms the largest contiguous protected area in the Western Ghats. Silent Valley in Kerala is among the last tracts of virgin tropical evergreen forest in India.\n\nIn August 2011, the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP) designated the entire Western Ghats as an Ecologically Sensitive Area (ESA) and assigned three levels of Ecological Sensitivity to its different regions. The Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel, headed by ecologist Madhav Gadgil, was a committee appointed by the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests to assess the biodiversity and environmental issues of the Western Ghats. Gadgil Committee and its successor Kasturirangan Committee recommended suggestions to protect the Western Ghats. Gadgil report was criticized as being too environment-friendly and Kasturirangan report was labelled as being anti-environmental.\n\nIn 2006, India applied to the UNESCO MAB for the Western Ghats to be listed as a protected World Heritage Site. In 2012, the following places are declared as World Heritage Sites:\n\nThe Western Ghats are home to thousands of animal species including at least 325 globally threatened species.\n\nThere are at least 139 mammal species. Of the 16 endemic mammals, 13 are threatened and amongst the 32 threatened species include the critically endangered Malabar large-spotted civet, the endangered lion-tailed macaque, Nilgiri tahr, Bengal tiger and Indian elephants, the vulnerable Indian leopard, Nilgiri langur and gaur.\n\nThese hill ranges serve as important wildlife corridors and forms an important part of Project Elephant and Project Tiger reserves. The largest population of tigers outside the Sundarbans is in the Western Ghats where there are seven populations with an estimated population size of 336 to 487 individuals occupying forest in three major landscape units spread across Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The Western Ghats eco-region has the largest Indian elephant population in the wild with an estimated 11,000 individuals across eight distinct populations. The endemic Nilgiri tahr which was on the brink of extinction has recovered and has an estimated 3,122 individuals in the wild. The Critically Endangered endemic Malabar large-spotted civet is estimated to number fewer than 250 mature individuals, with no sub-population greater than 50 individuals. About 3500 lion-tailed macaques live scattered over several areas in the Western Ghats.\n\nThe major population of snake family Uropeltidae of the reptile class is restricted to the region. Several endemic reptile genera occur here, including the Kerala cane turtle Vijayachelys silvatica, lizards like Salea, Ristella, Kaestlea, snakes like Melanophidium, Plectrurus, Teretrurus, Platyplectrurus, Xylophis, Rhabdops and so on. Species level endemism is much higher and is common to almost all genera present here. Some enigmatic endemic reptiles include the venomous snakes such as Striped coral snake, Malabar pit viper, Large-scaled pitviper and Horseshoe pitviper. The region has significant population of vulnerable Mugger crocodiles.\n\nThe amphibians of the Western Ghats are diverse and unique, with more than 80% of the 179 amphibian species being endemic to the rainforests of the mountains. The endangered purple frog was discovered in 2003. Several families of frogs namely of the genera Micrixalus, Indirana, Nyctibatrachus are endemic to this region. Endemic genera include the toads Pedostibes, Ghatophryne, Xanthophryne and arboreal frogs such as Ghatixalus, Mercurana and Beddomixalus; microhylids like Melanobatrachus. Dozens of new frogs species were described from the Western Ghats recently. The region is also home to many caecilian species.\n\n, 288 freshwater fish species are listed for the Western Ghats, including 35 also known from brackish or marine water. Several new species have been described from the region since then (e.g., \"Dario urops\" and \"S. sharavathiensis\"). There are 118 endemic species, including 12 genera entirely restricted to the Western Ghats (\"Betadevario\", \"Dayella\", \"Horabagrus\", \"Horalabiosa\", \"Hypselobarbus\", \"Indoreonectes\", \"Lepidopygopsis\", \"Longischistura\", \"Mesonoemacheilus\", \"Parapsilorhynchus\", \"Rohtee\" and \"Travancoria\").\n\nThere is a higher fish richness in the southern part of the Western Ghats than in the northern, and the highest is in the Chalakudy River, which alone holds 98 species. Other rivers with high species numbers include the Periyar, Bharatapuzha, Pamba and Chaliyar, as well as upstream tributaries of the Kaveri, Pambar, Bhavani and Krishna rivers. The most species rich families are the Cyprinids (72 species), hillstream loaches (34 species; including stone loaches, now regarded a separate family), Bagrid catfishes (19 species) and Sisorid catfishes (12 species). The region is home to several brilliantly colored ornamental fishes like Denison's (or red line torpedo) barb, several species of \"Dawkinsia\" barbs, zebra loach, \"Horabagrus\" catfish, dwarf pufferfish and dwarf Malabar pufferfish. The rivers are also home to \"Osteobrama bakeri\", and larger species such as the Malabar snakehead and Malabar mahseer. A few are adapted to an underground life, including some \"Monopterus\" swampeels, and the catfish \"Horaglanis\" and \"Kryptoglanis\".\n\nAccording to the IUCN, 97 freshwater fish species from the Western Ghats were considered threatened in 2011, including 12 critically endangered, 54 endangered and 31 vulnerable. All but one (\"Tor khudree\") of these are endemic to the Western Ghats. An additional 26 species from the region are considered data deficient (their status is unclear at present). The primary threats are from habitat loss, but also from overexploitation and introduced species.\n\nThere are at least 508 bird species. Most of Karnataka's five hundred species of birds are from the Western Ghats region. There are at least 16 species of birds endemic to the Western Ghats including the endangered rufous-breasted laughingthrush, the vulnerable Nilgiri wood-pigeon, white-bellied shortwing and broad-tailed grassbird, the near threatened grey-breasted laughingthrush, black-and-rufous flycatcher, Nilgiri flycatcher, and Nilgiri pipit, and the least concern Malabar (blue-winged) parakeet, Malabar grey hornbill, white-bellied treepie, grey-headed bulbul, rufous babbler, Wynaad laughingthrush, white-bellied blue-flycatcher and the crimson-backed sunbird.\n\nThere are roughly 6,000 insect species. Of 334 Western Ghats butterfly species, 316 species have been reported from the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve. The Western Ghats is home to 174 species of odonates (107 dragonflies and 67 damselflies), including 69 endemics. Most of the endemic odonate are closely associated with rivers and streams, while the non-endemics typically are generalists.\nThere are several species of leeches found all along the Western Ghats.\n\nSeasonal rainfall patterns of the Western Ghats necessitate a period of dormancy for its land snails, resulting in their high abundance and diversity including at least 258 species of gastropods from 57 genera and 24 families. A total of 77 species of freshwater molluscs (52 gastropods and 25 bivalves) have been recorded from the Western Ghats, but the actual number is likely higher. This include 28 endemics. Among the threatened freshwater molluscs are the mussels \"Pseudomulleria dalyi\", which is a Gondwanan relict, and the snail \"Cremnoconchus\", which is restricted to the spray zone of waterfalls. According to the IUCN, 4 species of freshwater molluscs are considered endangered and 3 are vulnerable. An additional 19 species are considered data deficient.\n\nOf the 7,402 species of flowering plants occurring in the Western Ghats, 5,588 species are native or indigenous and 376 are exotics naturalised and 1,438 species are cultivated or planted as ornamentals. Among the indigenous species, 2,253 species are endemic to India and of them, 1,273 species are exclusively confined to the Western Ghats. Apart from 593 confirmed subspecies and varieties; 66 species, 5 subspecies and 14 varieties of doubtful occurrence are also reported and therefore amounting 8,080 taxa of flowering plants.\n\n"}
