{"id": "54431983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54431983", "title": "A History of Ireland in 100 Objects", "text": "A History of Ireland in 100 Objects\n\nA History of Ireland in 100 Objects was a joint project by \"The Irish Times\", the National Museum of Ireland, and the Royal Irish Academy to define one hundred archaeological or cultural objects that are important in the history of Ireland. The objects are single man-made artefacts or documents, excluding buildings, ranging in date from about 5,000 BC (Mesolithic) to the early 21st century. Most of the objects are held in accessible collections in the Republic of Ireland or Northern Ireland.\n\nDetails of the hundred objects, written by \"Irish Times\" journalist Fintan O'Toole, were initially serialized in \"The Irish Times\" between February 2011 and January 2013. In February 2013 a book about the hundred objects written by O'Toole, entitled \"A History of Ireland in 100 Objects\", was published, and it quickly became a best-seller with 35,000 free downloads.\n\nIn January 2017 An Post announced that a selection of the 100 objects would form the subjects for the 9th definitive postage stamp series for Ireland, to be issued over a period of five or six years from 2017. The first set of stamps featuring twelve of the objects were issued in January 2017, consisting of eight different SOAR (Stamps on a Roll) stamps with various values (€0.05 to €7.50), a range coil stamps, and a national (N) and an international (W) rate stamp booklet.\n\nObjects for which there is a specific Wikipedia article are given in bold type.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5004019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5004019", "title": "Anankastic conditional", "text": "Anankastic conditional\n\nAn anankastic conditional is a grammatical construction of the form\n\nwhere Y is required in order to get X, insisting a peremptory conditionate. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "174050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174050", "title": "Bernice Johnson Reagon", "text": "Bernice Johnson Reagon\n\nBernice Johnson Reagon (born Bernice Johnson on October 4, 1942) is a song leader, composer, scholar, and social activist, who in the early 1960s was a founding member of the Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee's (SNCC) Freedom Singers in the Albany Movement. in Georgia. In 1973, she founded the all-black female \"a cappella\" ensemble Sweet Honey in the Rock, based in Washington, D.C. Reagon, along with other members of the SNCC Freedom Singers, realized the power of collective singing to unify the disparate groups who began to work together in the 1964 Freedom Summer protests in the South. \n“After a song,” Reagon recalled, “the differences between us were not so great. Somehow, making a song required an expression of that which was common to us all... This music was like an instrument, like holding a tool in your hand.”\nThe Albany Singing Movement became a vital catalyst for change through music in the early 1960s protests of the Civil Rights era. Reagon devoted her life to social justice through music via recordings, activism, community singing, and scholarship.\n\nShe earned her Ph.D. from Howard University becoming a cultural historian, centered on the role of music, and is an emeritus faculty member in the History Department at The American University. She has also been a scholar-in-residence at Stanford and received an honorary doctorate of music from Berklee College of Music.\n\nBernice Johnson was the daughter of Beatrice and J.J. Johnson, a Baptist minister. She was born and raised in southwest Georgia, where church and school were an integrated part of her life, with music heavily intertwined in both of those settings. Reagon began school at the age of three when she was asked by her teacher to attend early, and she passed that first year. By the time she was in the 4th, 5th, and 6th grade, she was requested to tutor students in the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd, and she claims it was because there had only been one teacher. She entered Albany State College in 1959 (since July 1996 Albany State University) where she began her study of music. She also became active in the local NAACP chapter and then the SNCC. After being expelled from Albany State because of an arrest as an activist, she briefly attended Spelman College.\n\nLater, she returned to Spelman to complete her undergraduate degree in 1970. She received a Ford Foundation fellowship to do graduate study at Howard University, where she was awarded the Ph.D. degree in 1975.\n\nBernice Johnson Reagon's first demonstration had been in protest against the arrest of Bertha Gober, and Blanton Hall, organized by SNCC along with the initial arrest of the two individuals, for they planned to be arrested in a discussion during a SNCC meeting. Reagon was an active participant in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s. She was a member of The Freedom Singers, organized by the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), for which she also served as a field secretary. Reagon explains her first encounter with SNCC as a confusion, for she did not understand the name, or its organization, but she claims that she did understand that they were for freedom and full-time. The Freedom Singers were organized by Cordell Reagon in 1962. This group was the first of the civil rights singers to travel nationally. The singers realized that singing helped provide an outlet and unifier for protestors struggling with mob behavior and police brutality. Thanks to her roles with SNCC and the Freedom Singers, Reagon became a highly respected song leader during the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nActivist James Forman later said-\"I remember seeing you lift your beautiful black head, stand squarely on your feet, your lips trembling as the melodious words 'Over my head, I see freedom in the air' came forth with an urgency and a pain that brought out a sense of intense renewal and commitment of liberation. And when the call came to protest the jailings, you were up front. You led the line. Your feet hit the dirty pavement with a sureness of direction. You walked proudly onward singing 'this little light of mine, 'and the people echoed, 'shine, shine, shine.'\"\n\nIn 1974, Reagon was appointed as a cultural historian in music history at the Smithsonian Institution, where she directed a program called Black American Culture in 1976, and was later a curator of music history for the National Museum of American History. Ida Jones from the Smithsonian Institution had stated, \"Dr. Reagon collected photographs,sheet music, and other primary and secondary sources chronicling the development of African American sacred music tradition from its birth during the period of slavery through the creation of concert spiritual, gospel music, jazz, and the performance of protest song in the century following Emancipation.\" on behalf on Reagon's initial job at the museum. In 1989, she was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship. After Reagon retired in 1993, she continued to work in African American Songs of Protest as a Curator Emeritus.\n\nShe held an appointment as Distinguished Professor of History at American University (AU) in Washington DC from 1993 to 2003. Reagon has since been named Professor Emerita of History at AU, and holds the title of Curator Emeritus at the Smithsonian.\n\nBernice Johnson Reagon claimed that she grew up in a church without a piano, so her early music was A cappella, and her first instruments were her hands and feet, and she explains, \"that's the only way I can deal comfortably with creating music.\" When Reagon speaks upon her upbringing in the musical culture, she explains that even her early schooling was heavily involved with music, not just the church. Reagon says that her teacher would lead the students outside to play games that entailed singing with their hands and feet, as well as their voices.There was also competitions among the students, and Reagon won first place as a child when running against the older students reciting Langston Hughes, \"I've Known Rivers\". Reagon is a specialist in African-American oral history, performance and protest traditions. She has served as music consultant, producer, composer, and performer on several award-winning film projects, notably PBS television productions such as \"Eyes on the Prize\" (1987) (in which she also appeared) and Ken Burns' \"The Civil War\" (1990). Reagon was also featured in a film, \"We Shall Overcome\" which was about the song and its placement in the movement, being produced by Ginger Records and made by Henry Hampton, the same creator of Eyes on The Prize. She was the conceptual producer and narrator of the Peabody Award-winning radio series, \"Wade in the Water, African American Sacred Music Traditions.\" Bernice Johnson Reagon claimed, \"These days, I come as a 'songtalker', one who balances talk and song in the creation of a live performance conversation with those who gather within the sound of my voice.\"\n\nReagon joined her first and only gospel choir when she was eleven years old, which was organized by her sister at the Mt. Early Baptist Church. She and the choir would listen to the local radio station WGPC to learn black gospel for the choir to recite. As a child, the Five Blind Guys was her favorite quartet. Reagon states that her role models in terms of music are Harriet Tubman, Sojourner Truth, and Bessie Jones, because they assisted her understanding of traditional singing and the fight for justice. She also sees Deacon Reardon as an importance to her work as a historian studying African American sacred worship traditions, and she states that he impacted both her spiritual and musical development.\n\nReagon's work as a scholar and composer is reflected in her publications on African-American culture and history, including: a collection of essays entitled \"If You Don’t Go, Don’t Hinder Me: The African American Sacred Song Tradition\" (University of Nebraska Press, 2001); \"We Who Believe In Freedom: Sweet Honey In The Rock: Still on the Journey\", (Anchor Books, 1993); and \"We'll Understand It Better By And By: Pioneering African American Gospel Composers\" (Smithsonian Press, 1992).\n\nReagon has recorded several albums on Folkways Records including \"Folk Songs: The South,\" \"Wade in the Water,\" and \"Lest We Forget, Vol. 3: Sing for Freedom.\"\n\nIn 1973 Reagon founded the six-member, all-female a cappella group entitled 'Sweet Honey in the Rock.' In addition to Reagon, the women in the original group were: Ysaye Maria Barnwell, Nitanju Bolade Casle, Shirley Childress Johnson, Aisha Kahil, and Carol Maillard. The only instrument they used was their voices, along with shekere and tambourine. They have toured internationally, including to Europe, Japan, Mexico, and Australia. The group's fan base is of different ethnic backgrounds, religions, and sexual orientations. Reagon's musical roots come from the rural South Baptist Church. She has advocated \"music's informational and transformative power to ask\" and the strong effects that music has had on the Civil Rights Movement.\n\n\nIn 1963 she married Cordell Reagon, another member of The Freedom Singers. Their daughter Toshi Reagon is also a singer-songwriter.\n\nReagon believes that \"Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyze you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.\" She believes that black people have created their own world. African Americans had to use what ever territory at their disposal to create a people. And that territory wasn't land, it was culture. She also said there was so much done because black culture was the only thing black people could call their own. That is why she feels black culture is the most powerful in the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29793768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29793768", "title": "Bibliography of Albania", "text": "Bibliography of Albania\n\nThis is a list of books in the English language which deal with Albania and its geography, history, inhabitants, culture, biota, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "10728443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10728443", "title": "Bill Bryson's African Diary", "text": "Bill Bryson's African Diary\n\nBill Bryson's African Diary is a 2002 book by best-selling travel writer Bill Bryson. The book details a trip Bryson took to Kenya in 2002. Bryson describes his experiences there and observations about Kenyan culture, geography, and politics, as well as his visits to poverty-fighting projects run by CARE International, to which he donated all royalties for the book.\n\nIn a review published in the Guardian Lionel Shriver was critical of the book's length, describing it as \"less a book than a pamphlet\". Shriver also disliked the book's tone, \"a po-faced, gee-whizz sincerity ill-suited to a writer who has made his reputation for being light and wry (and even snide) in droll travel books.\"\n"}
{"id": "627070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627070", "title": "Book signing", "text": "Book signing\n\nBook signing is the affixing of a signature to the title page or flyleaf of a book by its author. Book signings are events, usually at a bookstore or library, where an author sits and signs books for a period.\n\nBook signing is popular because an author's signature increases the value of books for collectors. The author may add a short message to the reader, called a dedication, to each book, which may be personalized with the recipient's name upon request. A simple author's signature without a dedication is typically more valuable to collectors (exceptions include inscriptions to persons of note, e.g., from Hemingway to Fitzgerald, or to persons of significance in the author's life).\n\nSometimes an author will sign additional copies for future sale. An additional advantage to authors for doing this is that once a book has been signed, it cannot be returned to the publisher for a refund.\n\nMany authors today spend a great deal of time signing their books, and sign many thousands of copies. For example, John Green signed all 150,000 copies of the first printing of his 2012 novel \"The Fault in Our Stars\".\n\nThe growing popularity of ebooks and ereading devices has inspired the development of software - such as Authorgraph (formerly known as Kindlegraph and renamed to reflect its expansion to include all ereading platforms) and Autography (for iOS devices) - that allows authors to digitally personalize ebooks, by including autographs, dedications, and photographs, and to provide such personalization remotely as well as at in-person book signings. Such software benefits authors, \"who are not obliged to go on long distance promotional tours in order to autograph e-books for their fans\", as well as those readers who are unwilling or unable to brave crowds and longs lines at onsite book signings. Before such applications were introduced, efforts to bridge the digital divide for those who read ebooks included having authors sign the backs of their fan's ereading devices or sign ebooks via direct stylus input (e.g., on a Sony Reader Touch or Palm eReader).\n\nBook signings provide more than a just a chance to obtain signatures. Authors and bookstores are benefited by the fact that many copies of the book being promoted are sold at these events. Signings also increase public goodwill and allow authors to connect with their fans. For fans, signings provide a chance to see and meet a favorite author and ask them questions.\n\nThe development of social media platforms allows modern day authors to conduct virtual book signings. For example, The GoodEReader and Autography jointly hosted an ebook signing with author HP Mallory, during which Mallory greeted fans via Spreecast, a social connectivity platform that allows users to have up to four guests on video chat at one time, to conduct Q&A sessions with even more participants, and to maintain a channel on the site, thereby recording and storing the Spreecast and assigning the recordings a URL for sharing at other outlets. \n\nMany authors use the book signing platform LiveSigning to host large-scale, streaming video book signings with their fans. Donald Trump hosted a book signing on this platform during his presidential campaign in December 2015. Book signings on LiveSigning typically consist of the author signing books, answering questions from fans, and making phone calls to some fans. After the event, the signed books are mailed to everyone who purchased a signed copy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49184394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49184394", "title": "Christ Pantocrator (Sinai)", "text": "Christ Pantocrator (Sinai)\n\nThe Christ Pantocrator of St. Catherine’s Monastery at Sinai is one of the oldest Eastern Roman religious icons, dating from the sixth century AD. It is the earliest known version of the pantocrator style that still survives today, and is regarded by historians and scholars to be one of the most important and recognizable works in the study of Byzantine art as well as Eastern Orthodox Christianity.\n\nFor a time the icon was thought to have been dated from the thirteenth century, since it had been almost completely painted over at that time, but it was concluded in 1962 that it is in fact from the mid-sixth century, although the exact date of production is still unknown. When Saint Catherine’s Monastery was founded by the Byzantine emperor Justinian I, late in his reign, between 548 and 565, it enjoyed imperial patronage and donations from Justinian and his court, with the Christ Pantocrator icon having been one of the many possible imperial gifts. Because of this, it is generally believed to have been produced in the Byzantine capital of Constantinople.\n\nMany agree that the icon represents the dual nature of Christ, illustrating traits of both man and god, perhaps influenced by the aftermath of the ecumenical councils of the previous century at Ephesus and Chalcedon. Christ’s features on the left side are supposed to represent the qualities of his human nature, while the right side represents his divinity. His right hand is shown opening outward, signifying his gift of blessing, while the left hand and arm is clutching a thick Gospel book.\n\nSome scholars have suggested the icon at Sinai could have been a possible representation of the Kamouliana icon of Christ or of the famous icon of Christ of the Chalke Gate, an image which was destroyed twice during the first and second waves of Byzantine Iconoclasmfirst in 726, and again in 814and thus its connection with the Christ Pantocrator is difficult to confirm.\n\nWith a height of 84 cm, width of 45.5 cm, and a thickness of 1.2 cm, the icon was originally taller and wider before its top and sides were cut. Otherwise there is only one spot with major damage, a large portion of Christ’s hair on his left side, including his left ear and shoulder. The original encaustic surface has continually been preserved in excellent condition overall. As with many of the early icons from Sinai, the Christ Pantocrator was created by using this technique, known as encaustic—a medium using hot wax paint—that would rarely continue to be utilized in the Byzantine world after the iconoclastic controversies of the eighth and ninth centuries. In fact, the monastery at Sinai is the only place in the world where a substantial number of these encaustic icons, particularly those dating from as early as the sixth century, have been preserved. During the Period of Byzantine Iconoclasm, the production of Orthodox icons continued at Sinai, whereas they were being destroyed in Constantinople.\n\nThe Muslim Arabs quickly took control of the entire Fertile Crescent south of the Turkish mountains, including Egypt and Sinai, cutting the monastery’s ties with Constantinople in the year 640. Therefore, by the time the era of iconoclasm had been initiated by Emperor Leo III in 726, the Monastery of Saint Catherine had already been protected under Muslim rule for nearly a century and was able to survive the destruction of iconoclasm. Furthermore, the location of the monastery in the rocky desert of Sinai, far away from any major trade or military route, kept the contents within St. Catherine’s safe from raiders as well as conquering armies. Even today the monastery houses more than 2,000 icons, dating from the sixth century to the modern times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44805844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44805844", "title": "Cuban immigration to the United States", "text": "Cuban immigration to the United States\n\nCuban immigration to the United States, for the most part, occurred in two periods: the first series of immigration of Cuban Americans from Cuba to the United States resulted from Cubans establishing cigar factories in Tampa and from attempts to overthrow Spanish colonial rule by the movement led by José Martí, the second to escape from Communist rule under Fidel Castro following the Cuban Revolution. Massive Cuban migration to Miami during the second series led to major demographic and cultural changes in Miami. There was also economic emigration, particularly during the Great Depression in the 1930s.\n\nThe Louisiana Purchase and the Adams–Onís Treaty of 1819, Spanish Florida, including the present day state of Florida and, at times, Louisiana and adjoining territory, was a province of the Captaincy General of Cuba (Captain General being the Spanish title equivalent to the British colonial Governor). Consequently, Cuban immigration to the U.S. has a long history, beginning in the Spanish colonial period in 1565 when St. Augustine, Florida was established by Pedro Menéndez de Avilés, and hundreds of Spanish-Cuban soldiers and their families moved from Cuba to St. Augustine to establish a new life.\n\nThousands of Cuban settlers also immigrated to Louisiana between 1778 and 1802 and Texas during the period of Spanish rule. Since 1820 the Cuban presence was more than 1000 people. In 1870 the number of Cuban immigrants increased to almost 12,000, of which 4,500 resided in New York City, 3,000 in New Orleans, and 2,000 in Key West. The causes of these movements were both economic and political, which intensified after 1860, when political factors played the predominant role in emigration, as a result of deteriorating relations with the Spanish metropolis.\n\nThe year 1869 marked the beginning of one of the most significant periods of emigration from Cuba to the United States, again centered on Key West. The exodus of hundreds of workers and businessmen was linked to the manufacture of tobacco. The reasons are many: the introduction of more modern techniques of elaboration of snuff, the most direct access to its main market, the United States, the uncertainty about the future of the island, which had suffered years of economic, political and social unrest during the beginning of the Ten Years' War against Spanish rule. It was an exodus of skilled workers, precisely the class in the island that had succeeded in establishing a free labor sector amid a slave economy.\n\nThe manufacture of snuff by the Cuban labor force, became the most important source of income for Key West between 1869 and 1900.\n\nTampa was added to such efforts, with a strong migration of Cubans, which went from 720 inhabitants in 1880 to 5,532 in 1890. However, the second half of the 1890s marked the decline of the Cuban immigrant population, as an important part of it returned to the island to fight for independence. The War accentuated Cuban immigrant integration into American society, whose numbers were significant: more than 12,000 people.\n\nIn the mid-to late 19th century, several cigar manufacturers moved their operations to Key West to get away from growing disruptions as Cubans sought independence from Spanish colonial rule. Many Cuban cigar workers followed. The Cuban government had even established a grammar school in Key West to help preserve Cuban culture. There, children learned folk songs and patriotic hymns such as \"La Bayamesa\", the Cuban national anthem.\n\nIn 1885, Vicente Martinez Ybor moved his cigar operations from Key West to the town of Tampa, Florida to escape labor strife. Ybor City was designed as a modified company town, and it quickly attracted thousands of Cuban workers from Key West and Cuba. West Tampa, another cigar manufacturing community, was founded nearby in 1892 and grew quickly. Between these communities, the Tampa Bay area's Cuban population grew from almost nothing to the largest in Florida in just over a decade, and the city as a whole grew from a village of 1,000 residents in 1885 to over 16,000 by 1900.\n\nBoth Ybor City and West Tampa were instrumental in Cuba's eventual independence. Inspired by revolutionaries such as Jose Martí, who visited Florida several times, Tampa-area Cubans and their neighbors donated money, equipment, and sometimes their lives to the cause of \"Cuba Libre\". After the Spanish–American War, some Cubans returned to Cuba, but others chose to stay in the U.S. due to the physical and economic devastation caused by conflicte on the island.\n\nSeveral other small waves of Cuban emigration to the U.S. occurred in the early 20th century (1900–59). Most settled in Florida and the northeast U.S. The majority of the 100,000 Cubans came for economic reasons due to (the Great Depression of 1929, volatile sugar prices, and migrant farm labor contracts). Others included anti-Batista refugees fleeing the military dictatorship, which had pro-U.S. diplomatic ties. During the '20s and '30s, emigration basically comprised workers looking for jobs, mainly in New York and New Jersey. They were classified as labor migrants and workers, much like other immigrants in the area at that time. Thus migrated more than 40,000 in the first decade, encouraged by U.S. immigration facilities at the time and more than 43,000 by the end of the 30s.\n\nSubsequently, the flow of Cubans to the United States fluctuated, due to both the domestic situation in the 40s and 50s in Cuba, and U.S. immigration policies, plus intermittent anti-immigrant sentiment. Cuban migration in those years included persons who could afford to leave the country and live abroad.\n\nThe Cuban population officially registered in the United States for 1958 was around 125,000 people, including descendants. Of these, more than 50,000 remained in the United States after the revolution of 1959.\n\nAfter the Cuban revolution led by Fidel Castro in 1959, a Cuban exodus began as the new government allied itself with the Soviet Union and began to introduce communism. From 1960 to 1979, hundreds of thousands of Cubans left Cuba. Most came from Cuba's educated upper and middle classes. Between December 1960 and October 1962 more than 14,000 Cuban children arrived alone in the U.S . \n\nOperacion Pedro Pan developed when children arrived in Miami and were met by representatives of Catholic Charities. The children were then sent to live with relatives, foster homes, orphanages, or boarding schools. In order to provide aid to the immigrants, the United States Congress passed the Cuban Adjustment Act in 1966. The Cuban Refugee Program provided more than $1.3 billion of direct financial assistance. They also were eligible for public assistance, Medicare, free English courses, scholarships, and low-interest college loans.\n\nSome banks pioneered loans for exiles who did not have collateral or credit but received help in getting a business loan. These loans helped many Cuban Americans to secure funds and start up their own businesses. With their Cuban-owned businesses and low cost of living, Miami, Florida and Union City, New Jersey (dubbed \"Havana on the Hudson)\" were the preferred destinations for many immigrants and soon became the main centers for Cuban American culture. According to author Lisandro Perez, Miami was not particularly attractive to Cubans prior to the 1960s.\n\nIt was not until the exodus of the Cuban exiles in 1959 that Miami became a preferred location. Westchester, Florida within Miami-Dade County, was the area most densely populated by Cubans and Cuban Americans in the United States, followed by Hialeah, Florida in second.\n\nCommunities like Miami, Tampa, and Union City, which Cuban Americans made their home, experienced a profound cultural impact as a result, as seen in such aspects of their local culture as cuisine, fashion, music, entertainment and cigar-making.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, after the implementation of the \"wet feet, dry feet\" policy, immigration patterns changed. Many Cuban immigrants departed from the southern and western coasts and arrived at the Yucatán Peninsula in Mexico while others landed on Isla Mujeres. From there they went to the Texas–Mexico border to request asylum. Many of the Cubans who did not have family in Miami settled in Houston; this has caused Houston's Cuban American community to increase in size.The term \"dusty foot\" refers to Cubans emigrating to the U.S. through Mexico. In 2005 the Department of Homeland Security had abandoned the approach of detaining every dry foot Cuban who crosses through Texas and began a policy allowing most Cubans to obtain immediate parole.\n\nJorge Ferragut, a Cuban immigrant who founded Casa Cuba, an agency that assists Cuban immigrants arriving in Texas, said in a 2008 article that many Cuban immigrants of the first decade of the 21st century left due to economic instead of political issues. By October 2008 Mexico and Cuba created an agreement to prevent immigration of Cubans through Mexico.\n\nPuerto Rico also become a destination for Cubans trying to reach the United States. As a U.S. Commonwealth, Puerto Rico was seen as a stepping stone for emigration.\n\nBefore the 1980s, all refugees from Cuba were welcomed into the United States as political refugees. This changed in the 1990s so that only Cubans who reach U.S. soil were granted refuge status under the \"wet foot, dry foot policy\". While representing a tightening of U.S. immigration policy, the wet foot, dry foot policy afforded Cubans a privileged position relative to other immigrants to the U.S.\n\nAccording to a U.S. Census 1970 report, Cuban Americans lived in all 50 states. But as later Census reports demonstrated, most Cuban immigrants settled in south Florida. A new trend in the late 1990s showed that fewer immigrants arrived from Cuba than previously. While U.S. born Cuban Americans moved out of their enclaves, other nationalities settled there.\n"}
{"id": "43129691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43129691", "title": "Deimos-2", "text": "Deimos-2\n\nDeimos-2 is a Spanish remote sensing Earth observation satellite built for Elecnor Deimos under an agreement with Satrec Initiative, a satellite manufacturing company in South Korea. \n\nThe Earth observation system was developed by Elecnor Deimos, who managed the engineering, ground segment, integration, tests, launch contract and LEOP, in collaboration with Satrec Initiative, who provided the platform and the payload. The platform is based on DubaiSat-2 launched in 2013, with a larger battery pack intended to last for at least 7 years. The satellite was purchased by Urthecast in 2015, together with Deimos-1 and Deimos Imaging, the division of Elecnor Deimos that was in charge of the operation of both satellites. \n\nDeimos-2 is currently property of Deimos Imaging, who operates it and commercialises its data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29438874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29438874", "title": "Dipper (container)", "text": "Dipper (container)\n\nAn oil dipper is used to hold a supply of turpentine, oil or painting medium.\n\nUsed in oil painting, it can be clipped onto the edge of the wooden palette.\n"}
{"id": "51862445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51862445", "title": "Eyyal burial cave", "text": "Eyyal burial cave\n\nEyyal Burial Cave is a prehistoric Megalith rock cut cave situated in Eyyal, of Thrissur District of Kerala. The cave can be accessed from single entry and its chamber is circular. Archaeological Survey of India has declared this cave as centrally protected monument.\n"}
{"id": "8938738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8938738", "title": "Feminist art movement in the United States", "text": "Feminist art movement in the United States\n\nThe feminist art movement in the United States began in the early 1970s and sought to promote the study, creation, understanding and promotion of women's art. \nFirst-generation feminist artists include Judy Chicago, Miriam Schapiro, Suzanne Lacy, Judith Bernstein, Sheila de Bretteville, Mary Beth Edelson, Carolee Schneeman, Rachel Rosenthal, and many other women. They were part of the Feminist art movement in the United States in the early 1970s to develop feminist writing and art. The movement spread quickly through museum protests in both New York (May 1970) and Los Angeles (June 1971), via an early network called W.E.B. (West-East Bag) that disseminated news of feminist art activities from 1971 to 1973 in a nationally circulated newsletter, and at conferences such as the West Coast Women's Artists Conference held at California Institute of the Arts (January 21–23, 1972) and the Conference on Women in the Visual Arts, at the Corcoran School of Art in Washington, D.C. (April 20–22, 1972).\n\nThe Feminist Art Movement of the 1970s, within the second wave of feminism, \"was a major watershed in women's history and the history of art\" and \"the personal is political\" was its slogan.\n\nIn 1969 Mierle Laderman Ukeles wrote a manifesto entitled \"Maintenance Art—Proposal for an Exhibition\", challenging the domestic role of women and proclaiming herself a \"maintenance artist\". Maintenance, for Ukeles, is the realm of human activities that keep things going, such as cooking, cleaning and child-rearing and her performances in the 1970s included the cleaning of art galleries. Her first performance called \"Touch Sanitation\" was from 1979-80.\n\nA demand for equality in representation for female artists was codified in the Art Workers' Coalition's (AWC) Statement of Demands, which was developed in 1969 and published in definitive form in March 1970. The AWC was set up to defend the rights of artists and force museums and galleries to reform their practices. While the coalition sprung up as a protest movement following Greek kinetic sculptor Panagiotis \"Takis\" Vassilakis's physical removal of his work Tele-Sculpture(1960) from a 1969 exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, New York, it quickly issued a broad list of demands to 'art museums in general'.\n\nAlongside calls for free admission, better representation of ethnic minorities, late openings and an agreement that galleries would not exhibit an artwork without the artist's consent, the AWC demanded that museums 'encourage female artists to overcome centuries of damage done to the image of the female as an artist by establishing equal representation of the sexes in exhibitions, museum purchases and on selection committees'.\n\nThe first women's art class was taught in the fall of 1970 at Fresno State College, now California State University, Fresno, by artist Judy Chicago. It became the Feminist Art Program, a full 15-unit program, in the Spring of 1971. This was the first feminist art program in the United States. Fifteen students studied under Chicago at Fresno State College: Dori Atlantis, Susan Boud, Gail Escola, Vanalyne Green, Suzanne Lacy, Cay Lang, Karen LeCocq, Jan Lester, Chris Rush, Judy Schaefer, Henrietta Sparkman, Faith Wilding, Shawnee Wollenman, Nancy Youdelman, and Cheryl Zurilgen. Together, as the Feminist Art Program, these women rented and refurbished an off-campus studio at 1275 Maple Avenue in downtown Fresno. Here they collaborated on art, held reading groups, and discussion groups about their life experiences which then influenced their art. \nLater, Judy Chicago and Miriam Schapiro reestablished the Feminist Art Program (FAP) at California Institute of the Arts. After Chicago left for Cal Arts, the class at Fresno State College was continued by Rita Yokoi from 1971 to 1973, and then by Joyce Aiken in 1973, until her retirement in 1992.\n\nThe Fresno Feminist Art Program served as a model for other feminist art efforts, such as Womanhouse, a collaborative feminist art exhibition and the first project produced after the Feminist Art Program moved to the California Institute of the Arts in the fall of 1971. Womanhouse, like the Fresno project, also developed into a feminist studio space and promoted the concept of collaborative women's art.\n\nThe Feminist Studio Workshop was founded in Los Angeles in 1973 by Judy Chicago, Arlene Raven, and Sheila Levrant de Bretteville as a two-year feminist art program. Women from the program were instrumental in finding and creating the Woman's Building, the first independent center to showcase women's art and culture. Galleries existed there for the entire history of the organization and that was a major venue for exhibiting feminist art.\n\nArt historian Arlene Raven established the Feminist Art Program in Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1971, the art historian Linda Nochlin published the article \"Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?\" in \"Woman in Sexist Society,\" which was later reprinted in \"ArtNews,\" where she claimed that there were no \"great\" women artists at that time, nor in history. By omission, this inferred that artists like Georgia O'Keeffe and Mary Cassatt were not considered great. She stated why she felt that there were no great women artists and what organizational and institutional changes needed to take place to create better opportunities for women.\n\nThe author Lucy Lippard and others identified three tasks to further the understanding and promotion of works by women:\n\nIn California, the approach to improve the opportunities for women artists focused on creating venues, such as the Woman's Building and the Feminist Studio Workshop (FSW), located with the Woman's Building. Gallery spaces, feminist magazine offices, a bookstore, and a cafe were some of the key uses of the Feminist Studio Workshop.\n\nOrganizations like A.I.R. Gallery and Women Artists in Revolution (WAR) were formed in New York to provide greater opportunity for female artists and protest for to include works of women artist in art venues that had very few women represented, like Whitney Museum and the Museum of Modern Art. In 1970 there was a 23% increase in the number of women artists, and the previous year there was a 10% increase, due to Whitney Annual (later Whitney Biennial) protests.\n\nThe New York Feminist Art Institute opened in June 1979 at 325 Spring Street in the Port Authority Building. The founding members and the initial board of directors were Nancy Azara, Miriam Schapiro, Selena Whitefeather, Lucille Lessane, Irene Peslikis and Carol Stronghilos. A board of advisers was established of accomplished artists, educators and professional women. For instance, feminist writer and arts editor at \"Ms. Magazine\" Harriet Lyons was an adviser from its start.\n\nIn 1977, Suzanne Lacy and collaborator Leslie Labowitz, combined performance art with activism in \"Three Weeks in May\" on the steps of Los Angeles City Hall. The performance, which included a map of rapes in the city, and self-defense classes highlighted sexual violence against women.\n\n\"The Feminist Art Journal\" was a feminist art publication that was produced from 1972 to 1977, and was the first stable, widely read journal of its kind. Beginning in 1975 there were scholarly publications about feminism, feminist art and historic women's art, most notably \"Through the Flower: My Struggle as a Woman Artist\" by Judy Chicago; and \"Against Our Will: Men, Women and Rape\" (1975) by Susan Brownmiller; \"Woman Artists: 1550-1950\" (1976) about Linda Nochlin and Ann Sutherland Harris's exhibition; \"From the Center: Feminist Essays in Women's Art\" (1976) by Lucy Lippard; \"Of Woman Born,\" by Adrienne Rich, \"When God Was a Woman\" (1976) by Merlin Stone; \"By Our Own Hands\" (1978) by Faith Wilding; \"Gyn/Ecology\" (1978) by Mary Daly; and \"Woman and Nature\" by Susan Griffin.\nIn 1977, both \"Chrysalis\" and \"\" began publication.\n\nFeminist art evolved during the 1980s, with a trend away from experiential works and social causes. Instead, there was a trend toward works based upon Postmodern theory and influenced by psychoanalysis. Inequal representation in the artworld was a continuing issue.\n\nGuerrilla Girls was formed by 7 women artists in the spring of 1985 in response to the Museum of Modern Art's exhibition \"An International Survey of Recent Painting and Sculpture\", which opened in 1984. The exhibition was the inaugural show in the MoMA's newly renovated and expanded building, and was planned to be a survey of the most important contemporary artists.\n\nThe Guerrilla Girls have researched sexism and created artworks at the request of various people and institutions, among others, the Istanbul Modern, Istanbul, Witte de With Center for Contemporary Arts, Rotterdam and Fundación Bilbao Arte Fundazioa, Bilbao. They have also partnered with Amnesty International, contributing pieces to a show under the organization's \"Protect the Human\" initiative.\n\nMass communication is \"the process by which a person, group of people, or large organization creates a message and transmits it through some type of medium to a large, anonymous, heterogeneous audience.\" Women such as Barbara Kruger and Jenny Holzer used forms of graphic mass communication such as refined slogans and graphics to increase awareness of the inequity faced by women artists.\n\nKiki Smith\n\nDuring the 1970s Kiki Smith was one of the many artists involved in the collaborative projects. As the art scene became more politicized in the 1980s, Kiki Smith's art work also became more political as well. Her work started \"involving issues like abortion, race and AIDS.\" When asked if she considered herself a feminist artist, Smith responded:\n\nYes, I would say that generationally I am, and I would say that without the feminist movement I wouldn't exist; and an enormous amount of the artwork that we take for granted wouldn't exist; and a lot of the subject matter that we assume can be encompassed by art wouldn't exist. The feminist movement exponentially expanded what art is, and how we look at art, and who is considered to be included in the discourse of art-making. I think that it caused a tremendous, radical change. You don't want to have a cultural notion that one specific gender embodies creativity. All humanity – and all aspects of gender and sexuality and how people define themselves – are inherently creative. It's against the interests of the culture at large not to embrace feminism as a model, just like many other models of liberation, because they don't only liberate women, they liberate everybody.\n\nSister Serpents was a radical feminist art collective that began as a small group women in Chicago in the summer of 1989, as a direct response to the Webster v. Reproductive Health Services Supreme Court decision. Their goal as a collective was to empower women and to increase awareness of women's issues through radical art, and to use art as a weapon to battle misogyny.\n\n\n\"Bad Girls (Part I) and Bad Girls (Part II)\" were a 1994 pair of exhibitions at New Museum in New York, curated by Marcia Tucker. A companion exhibition, \"Bad Girls West\" was curated by Marcia Tanner and exhibited at UCLA's Wright Gallery the same year.\n\n\"Sexual Politics: Judy Chicago's The Dinner Party in Feminist Art History\", a 1996 exhibition and text curated and written by Amelia Jones, re-exhibited Judy Chicago's \"The Dinner Party\" for the first time since 1988. It was presented by the UCLA Armand Hammer Museum.\n\nRiot Grrrl\n\nThe Riot grrrl movement was focused mostly on music, but the DIY aspect of this scene included feminist knowledge in forms of underground zines, which included poems, articles, comics, etc.\n\n\nThe 2007 exhibition, \"WACK! Art and the Feminist Revolution\", focused on the feminist art movement. It was organized by the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles and traveled to PS1 Contemporary Art Center in New York. WACK! featured by 120 artists from 21 countries, covering the period of 1965-1980.\n\n\"A Studio of Their Own: The Legacy of the Fresno Feminist Experiment\" was performed on the California State University, Fresno campus at the Phebe Conley Art Gallery in 2009. It was a retrospective that paid homage to the women from the 1970s who were part of the first women's art program.\n\nThe Feminist Art Project website and information portal was founded at Rutgers University in 2006. A resource for artists and scholars in the United States, it publishes a calendar of events and runs conferences, discussions and education projects. It describes itself as \"a strategic intervention against the ongoing erasure of women from the cultural record\".\n\nFeminist art curating practices are within a museumism genre, which is a deconstructing of the museum space by curator/artist where the museum looks at itself or the artist/curator looks at the museum.\n\n\"If artists as curators of their own exhibition is no longer uncommon, neither is the artist-created museum or collection ... These artists use museological practices to confront the ways in which museums rewrite history through the politics of collecting and presentation ... However, their work often inadvertently reasserts the validity of the museum\" (Corrin, 1994, p. 5).\n\nKaty Deepwell documents feminist curating practice and feminist art history with a theoretical foundation that feminist curating is not biologically determinate.\n\nFeminist art curatorial practices are collaborative and reject the notion of an artist as an individual creative genius.\n\n\n!Women Art Revolution\n\nThe documentary film \"!Women Art Revolution\" was played at New York's IFC Center beginning June 1, 2011, before opening around the country.\n\nWoman's Building\n\nThe Los Angeles Woman's Building was the subject of a major exhibition in 2012 at the Ben Maltz Gallery at Otis College of Art and Design called Doin' It in Public, Feminism and Art at the Woman's Building. It included oral histories on video, emphemera, and artists' projects. It was part of the Getty initiative .\n\nStop Telling Women To Smile\n\nStop Telling Women To Smile was an ongoing, traveling series that started in Fall of 2012. Artist Tatyana Fazlalizadeh, started this project in Brooklyn, NYC, but had also been in Chicago, Paris, and Mexico City. Street art such as STWTS is a modern way of mass communication art.\n\n\"Gallery Tally\"\n\nIn 2013, Michol Hebron started the \"Gallery Tally\" project, where Hebron had different galleries across Los Angeles and New York make posters showing the uneven representation in the art world. She found that about 70% of artists represented in these two cities are men. Hebron has extended this project outside of L.A., and now continues the project all over the states, with updates to her blog.In 2015, Hebron went through every cover published from Artforum. Since 1962, there have been 526 different monthly covers. Hebron found only 18% feature art by women, and male artists made 74% of the covers.\n\n\"Guarded\"\n\n\"Guarded\" was a photography project by artist Taylor Yocom in 2015 for which Yocom photographed students from University of Iowa, showing what these women carried with them when they had to walk alone at night.\n\nNow Be Here\n\nNow Be Here was a project from August 28, 2016, where 733 female and female identifying women came together in Los Angeles to be photographed together to show solidarity. The project continued with Now Be Here #2 at the Brooklyn Museum on October 23, 2016, and Now Be Here #3 at the Pérez Art Museum Miami (PAMM) on December 10, 2016.\n\nThe Future is Female\n\nThe Future is Female art exhibit located within the 21C Museum and Hotel in Louisville, Kentucky opened its doors just following our most recent presidential election and features feminist art works that operate to epitomize the experience of womanhood while simultaneously addressing larger global issues. The exhibit highlights the artwork of handful of feminist artists including Vibha Galhotra, Alison Saar, Carrie Mae Weems, Michele Pred, Frances Goodman, Kiki Smith, and Sanell Aggenbach who emerged in the wake of the second wave Feminist Arts Movement.\n\nWomen's Invitational Exhibition 2017\n\nThe \"Women's Invitational Exhibition\" is an art exhibit that features the works from minority women artists. The entire gallery showcases only a select few artists. However, each individual woman shows multitude of different topics via a variety of mediums.\n\nHands On\n\n\"HANDS ON\" is collection of works by Karen Lederer made in 2017. Works within the collection date from 2015 to 2017. The art was made in response to political debates about women.\n\nCarnegie Mellon art galleries director Elizabeth Chodos and assistant director Margaret Cox put up a gallery for Faith Wilding's artwork, who was a prominent artist who studied art in the 70's when issues like rape and sexual abuse were too taboo to discuss. She learned to be open with her artwork focusing on female bodies working alongside other female art students. She did however, criticize the fact that most art teachers were male. The ideas explored in her work offered influence for key elements of the #metoo movement but also recognizes that we still have a long way to go in terms of equality and respect. Wilding's artwork addressed social issues relating to sexual assault that are just now beginning to emerge culturally through #metoo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6541401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6541401", "title": "Fort Walton Mound", "text": "Fort Walton Mound\n\nThe Fort Walton Mound (8OK6) is an archaeological site located in present-day Fort Walton Beach, Florida, United States. The large platform mound was built about 850 CE by the Pensacola culture, a local form of the Mississippian culture. Because of its significance, the mound was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1964.\n\nStill reduced by time, the massive mound is still high and wide at the base. It was an expression of a complex culture, built by a hierarchical society whose leaders planned and organized the labor of many workers for such construction. The mound served combined ceremonial, political and religious purposes. At the center of the village and its supporting agricultural lands, the mound served as the platform for the temple and residence of the chief. Successive leaders were buried in the mound and additional layers were added over time.\n\nThis is one of three surviving mound complexes in the panhandle, the others being Letchworth Mounds and Lake Jackson Mounds state parks.\n\nThe Fort Walton Mound was probably built around 800 AD, although Charles H. Fairbanks who excavated the mound in 1960 believed it was built between 1500 and 1650 based on pottery sherds he uncovered and analyzed. The mound served as the ceremonial and political center of their chiefdom and probably the residence of the chief. It was also the burial ground of the elites in the society. Archaeological evidence suggests that several buildings once stood on top of the mound, perhaps at different times throughout its use. These buildings were probably done in the typical wattle and daub construction common among Southeastern Native American groups. By sometime in the late 1600s the mound was abandoned by its original builders and lay dormant in use until the area was reinhabited by white settlers in the mid 19th century.\n\nThe Confederate soldiers established \"Camp Walton\" at the base of Fort Walton Mound in 1861 during the Civil War to guard Santa Rosa Sound and Choctawhatchee Bay. As with many of Florida's mound structures, the Fort Walton Mound was first excavated by antiquarians and amateur archaeologists. The Walton Guard soldiers are the first recorded group to have excavated the mound. John Love McKinnon, an officer with the Walton Guards at the time, wrote a description of their excavation in his book \"History of Walton County.\" McKinnon noted that several human remains the soldiers unearthed were from large individuals and probably belonged to warriors as indicated by damage they observed on the skulls, thighs and arms bones consistent with hacking and blunt force trauma. He speculated that the area they dug into was once a charnel house. A couple decades after the Civil War, in 1883 S.T. Walker wrote a report about excavating the mound for the Smithsonian Institution. Walker surveyed several mounds in the Florida Panhandle and noted that many curiosity seekers had dug into the mound over the years. Walker noted that Dr. S.S. Forbes from Milton, Florida, had excavated the mound previously and discovered bones and several clay effigies which he later donated to the Smithsonian.\n\nClarence Bloomfield Moore also excavated the mound in 1901 and brought many before unseen ceramic vessels and burial items to light. In 1940 the highly respected archaeologist Gordon Willey and Richard Woodbury rexamined the Fort Walton Mound and other sites Moore had visited. Their work here was mentioned in Willey's highly acclaimed work \"Archaeology of the Florida Gulf Coast,\" which he completed when he worked for the Bureau of American Ethnology Smithsonian Institution. By 1960 Dr. Charles Fairbanks, an archaeologist and professor at Florida State University, was contacted by the city and he excavated the mound to determine the original size, shape, and construction method of the mound. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s the Fort Walton Mound was excavated by members of the museum staff under the guidance of William and Yulee Lazarus. In 1971-1973 with the help of Depauw University's Robert J. Fornaro the mound was excavated to locate post holes and recover ceramic material that might fit vessels found earlier. The last excavation of the Fort Walton Mound occurred in 1976 by then FSU graduate student Nina Thanz (Borremans). Thanz was tasked with making sure the reconstruction of a temple building being planned for the top of the mound would not disturb any human remains or artifacts during construction. She found several post holes from different structures built on top of the mound and evidence for a charnel house. Her findings of post holes became one source of the dimensions to the building structure that stands on the mound today. According to the first curator of the Indian Temple Mound Museum Yulee Lazarus the reconstruction of the temple building that currently stands on top of the mound was never intended on being a \"replica,\" but rather to \"bolster the imagination and interpretation of the Indians' use of the temple mound.\"\n\nThe mounds were built by the people of the Pensacola culture, a regional variation of the Mississippian culture. The Fort Walton culture was named for the site by archaeologist Gordon Willey, but later work in the area has led archaeologists to believe the Fort Walton site was actually built and used by people of the contemporaneous Pensacola culture. The peoples of the Fort Walton culture used mostly sand, grit, grog, or combinations of these materials as tempering agents in their pottery, whereas the Pensacola culture peoples used the more typical Mississippian culture shell tempering for their pottery. The site was abandoned by 1500 A.D. but the exact reason for the abandonment is unknown. It has been speculated that this was due to the arrival of European settlers, but this statement is unproven because the sites were already found abandoned by Spanish explorers years before.\n\nThe people are recognized as being one of the most successful pre-Columbian cultures in regards to agriculture. A number of crops were successful including corn, beans, and squash. The mound itself appears in a common architectural fashion for the period with features such as a pyramidal base with a truncated top. The flat top was used for ceremonies, temples, and residences for high-ranking officials.\n\nFort Walton Mound is now protected as part of the Fort Walton Beach Heritage Park & Cultural Center, which features several museums included with admission: the Indian Temple Mound Museum, Camp Walton Schoolhouse Museum, Garnier Post Office Museum and Civil War Exhibits Building.\n\nThe city-owned and operated Indian Temple Mound Museum features pre-Columbian artifacts found on site and from other locations, as well as a variety of exhibits on later Native American and Floridian history including artifacts from the European Explorers, local pirates and early settlers. The address is 139 Miracle Strip Pkwy SE, near the intersection of State Road 85 and U.S. Route 98, in the Florida Panhandle. The museum was first opened in 1962 and the current location was opened in 1972.\n\nThe Camp Walton Schoolhouse Museum was the original one-room schoolhouse built in 1911. It opened for use for the community children from 1912 to 1936. Opened in 1976, the museum features early-20th-century desks and education items.\n\nThe Garnier Post Office Museum is an original small rural post office that displays the postal history of Camp Walton and Fort Walton with emphasis from 1900 to the 1950s. The site also served as a voting location. The museum opened in 1988.\n\nOpened in 2010, the Civil War Exhibits Building features displays about Florida's history during the American Civil War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44171749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44171749", "title": "Helga (Call)", "text": "Helga (Call)\n\nCalling „Helga!“ is a running gag at German concerts and festivals.\n\nA person may call for a \"Helga\", others answer and come to a chorus like group effect. „Helga ist tot!“ (Helga is dead) denies the helgaing request. Further allegations se gravestones, memorials or graffiti. The background is unknown, some reports point to a rather rainy Hurricane Festival in Scheeßel, where a high pressure cyclone called Helga was called for but didn't arrive in time. The call was namegiver for an annual prize for German festivals. and is being used by a service company.\n"}
{"id": "3246003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3246003", "title": "Hercules and Cacus", "text": "Hercules and Cacus\n\nHercules and Cacus is a white sculpture to the right of the entrance of the Palazzo Vecchio in the Piazza della Signoria, Florence, Italy.\nThis work by the Florentine artist Baccio Bandinelli (1525–1534) was commissioned as a pendant to David, which had been commissioned by the republican council of Florence, under Piero Soderini (\"gonfaloniere\" for life), to commemorate the victory over the Medici.\n\nThe \"colossus\" (height: 5.05 m) was originally given to Michelangelo and meant to complement the \"David\" but later appropriated by the Medici family as a symbol of their renewed power after their return from exile in 1512, and again in 1530. Although descriptions of its unveiling in 1534 provided verbal and written criticisms of the marble, most were instead aimed at the Medici family for dissolving the Republic and were not aesthetic.\nA few of the writers of these hypercritical verses were imprisoned by Alessandro de'Medici, further suggesting a political commentary. The two harshest critics were Giorgio Vasari and Benvenuto Cellini, both of whom were champions of Michelangelo and rivals of Bandinelli for Medici patronage. Vasari lamented the change of hands from Michelangelo to Bandinelli, and the change of design. Cellini referred to the emphatic musculature as \"a sack full of melons\", forgetting that Michelangelo had received similar deprecation previously by Leonardo da Vinci. Neither Vasari nor Cellini can be viewed as unbiased resources due to their rivalries. The patrons (Medici family) were quite satisfied and rewarded Bandinelli greatly for his efforts with land, money, and he was later placed in charge of all sculptural and architectural programs for the Medici under Cosimo I.\n\nHere, the demi-god Hercules, who killed the fire-belching monster Cacus during his for stealing cattle, is the symbol of physical strength, which juxtaposed nicely with David as a symbol of spiritual strength, both symbols desired by the Medici. This marble group shows the basic theme of the victor (the Medici) and the vanquished (the republicans). The pause suggests the leniency of the Medici to those who would concede to their rule, and served as a warning to those who would not, as this pause can be indefinite or simply temporary.\nThe commission for the \"Hercules and Cacus\", as mentioned, was appropriated by the pope Clement VII (Giulio de'Medici), some time during or before 1523. He was shown a wax \"bozzetto\" by Bandinelli, who received the commission. The quarried block of white Carrara marble arrived in Florence in 1525. It has been suggested that the block of marble was not large enough for Bandinelli's design and he was to make a new one, however, the reason for the change may have been purely for symbolic reasons. His first design was extremely active and violent, and it is likely that the Medici did not want such a harsh reminder of their brutal return to power. Vasari stated that Bandinelli had already carved the sculpture as far as the abdomen of Hercules when, in 1527, the pope was taken prisoner in Rome during its sacking, and the Medici were exiled once again from Florence. Meanwhile, in Florence, the republican enemies of the Medici took advantage of the chaos to expel Ippolito de' Medici from the city and return the marble to Michelangelo. Vasari stated a change in subject, which is substantiated by a terracotta \"bozzetto\", as a \"Samson Slaying the Philistines\". This was probably to separate the project from the Medici and was allowed due to Bandinelli, as a supporter of the Medici, having to leave the city. In 1530, Emperor Charles V assisted the Medici in retaking possession of Florence after a long siege. Pope Clement VII subsequently installed his illegitimate son Alessandro de Medici as duke of Florence. Bandinelli then returned and continued his work on the statue. Finally in 1534 the work on the statue was finished transported from his studio to the Piazza della Signoria and placed on its marble pedestal as part of the \"ringiera\".\n\nThe statue was restored between February 1994 and April 1994. It was then discovered that the club in the hand of Hercules was not the original club, but was made of aluminum instead of the original bronze.\n"}
{"id": "34438942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34438942", "title": "Hilda Wiseman", "text": "Hilda Wiseman\n\nHilda Alexandra Wiseman (1894–1982) was a notable New Zealand bookplate designer, artist and calligrapher.\n\nWiseman was born in Mooroopna, Victoria, Australia on 7 April 1894.\n\nShe attended Elam School of Art, and Seddon Memorial Technical College\n\nWiseman began her artistic career as a commercial artist at the Chandler and Company advertising firm. In 1925 she created her first linocut bookplate She went on to design over 100 bookplates.\n\nIn 1931 she started her own studio, the Selwyn Studio.\n\nAt the time of her death in 1982 the Auckland Historical Society received her bequest of the Selwyn Studio, and its contents.\n"}
{"id": "1739149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1739149", "title": "Hot Wheels: AcceleRacers", "text": "Hot Wheels: AcceleRacers\n\nHot Wheels: AcceleRacers is an animated series of four films by Mattel. It is computer-animated, produced by Mainframe Entertainment out of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, which also produced \"ReBoot\" and distributed by Warner Bros. Available on DVD and VHS, it has also been shown on Cartoon Network. \n\nThe series takes Mattel's Hot Wheels toy cars and puts them in a \"ReBoot\"-like situation, with racing somewhat reminiscent of \"Tron\". This is a sequel to the 2003 animated film \"\" and takes place in California. A soundtrack was distributed by Sony BMG, and toys were sold in stores and given away in a McDonald's Happy Meal. A collectible card game and other merchandise were also made.\n"}
{"id": "43514929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43514929", "title": "Iraqi Civil War (2014–2017)", "text": "Iraqi Civil War (2014–2017)\n\nThe Iraqi Civil War was an armed conflict which began in January 2014 and ended in December 2017. In 2014, the Iraqi insurgency escalated into a civil war with the conquest of Fallujah, Mosul, Tikrit and in the major areas of northern Iraq by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL, also known as ISIS or IS). This resulted in the forced resignation of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, as well as airstrikes by the United States, Iran, Syria, and at least a dozen other countries, the participation of Iranian troops and military and logistical aid provided to Iraq by Russia. On 9 December 2017, Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi announced victory over ISIL, though others warned that they expected ISIL to fight on via an insurgency, and by other means. ISIS switched to guerrilla 'hit and run' tactics in an effort to undermine the Iraqi government's effort to eradicate them.\n\nBoth the Iraqi Armed Forces, Kurdish Peshmerga and various Turkmen Muslim, Assyrian Christian, Yezidi, Shabaki, and Armenian Christian forces are facing the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. Although some 35,000 Kurdish Peshmerga are incorporated into the Iraqi Armed Forces, most Peshmerga forces are operating under the command of the President of Iraqi Kurdistan in the Kurdish autonomous region of Iraq. Assyrian forces include: Syriac Military Council, Nineveh Plain Forces, Nineveh Plain Protection Units, Qaraqosh Protection Committee, and Dwekh Nawsha.\n\nIn the course of their Anbar campaign, ISIL militants seized at least 70% of the Anbar Province by June 2014, including the cities of Fallujah, Al Qaim, and half of the provincial capital of Ramadi. ISIL forces also infiltrated Abu Ghraib in Baghdad Governorate.\n\nIn early June 2014, following further large-scale offensives in Iraq, ISIL seized control of Mosul, the second most populous city in Iraq, the nearby town of Tal Afar and most of the surrounding Nineveh province. ISIL also captured parts of Kirkuk and Diyala provinces and Tikrit, the administrative center of the Salahuddin Governorate, with the ultimate goal of capturing Baghdad, the Iraqi capital. IS was believed to have only 2,000–3,000 fighters up until the Mosul campaign, but during that campaign, it became evident that this number was a gross underestimate. There were also reports that the number of Sunni groups in Iraq that were opposed to the predominantly Shia government had joined ISIS, thus bolstering the group numbers. However, the Kurds—who are mostly Sunnis—in the northeast of Iraq, were unwilling to be drawn into the conflict, and there were clashes in the area between ISIL and the Kurdish Peshmerga.\n\nISIL executed 1,700 Iraq soldiers who had surrendered in the fighting and released many images of mass executions via its Twitter feed and various websites.\n\nIn late June, ISIS militants captured two key crossings in Anbar, a day after seizing the border crossing at Al-Qaim. According to analysts, capturing these crossings could aid ISIL in transporting weapons and equipment to different battlefields. Two days later, the Syrian Air Force bombed ISIL positions in Iraq. Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki stated: \"There was no coordination involved, but we welcome this action. We welcome any Syrian strike against Isis because this group targets both Iraq and Syria.\"\n\nAt this point, \"The Jerusalem Post\" reported that the Obama administration had requested US$500 million from the US Congress to use in the training and arming of \"moderate\" Syrian rebels fighting against the Syrian government, in order to counter the growing threat posed by ISIS in Syria and Iraq.\n\nOn 29 June, ISIL announced the establishment of a new caliphate. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was appointed its caliph, and group formally changed its name to the Islamic State. Four days later, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the self-proclaimed caliph of the new Islamic State, said that Muslims should unite to capture Rome in order to \"own the world.\" He called on Muslims all over the world to unite behind him as their leader.\n\nOn 24 July, ISIL blew up the Mosque and tomb of the Prophet Yunus (Jonah) in Mosul, with no reported casualties. Residents in the area said that ISIS had erased a piece of Iraqi heritage. Jonah's tomb was also an important holy site in the Jewish heritage as well. A few days later, ISIL also blew up the Nabi Shiyt (Prophet Seth) shrine in Mosul. Sami al-Massoudi, deputy head of the Shia endowment agency which oversees holy sites, confirmed the destruction and added that ISIS had taken artifacts from the shrine to an unknown location.\n\nIn an August offensive, ISIL captured Sinjar and a number of other towns in the north of the country. Almost 200,000 civilians, mostly Yazidis, managed to flee from the fighting in Sinjar city, about 50,000 of them fled into the Sinjar Mountains, where they were trapped without food, water or medical care, facing starvation and dehydration. They had been threatened with death if they refused conversion to the Islam. A UN representative said that \"a humanitarian tragedy is unfolding in Sinjar.\" By the end of the month, ISIL massacred 5,000 Yazidi men, with killings running in the hundreds in different villages. In addition, during this latest offensive, the Islamic State advanced to within 30 km of the Iraqi Kurdish capital of Erbil in northern Iraq.\n\nPrompted by the siege and killings of the Yazidis, on 7 August, President Obama authorized targeted airstrikes in Iraq against ISIL, along with airdrops of aid. The UK offered the US assistance with surveillance and refuelling, and planned humanitarian airdrops to Iraqi refugees. The US asserted that the systematic destruction of the Yazidi people by the Islamic State was genocide. The Arab League also accused the Islamic State of committing crimes against humanity.\nOn 13 August, US airstrikes and Kurdish forces broke the ISIL siege of Mount Sinjar. Also, five days later, Kurdish Peshmerga ground troops, with the help of Iraqi Special Forces and the US air campaign, overran ISIL militants and reclaimed the Mosul Dam.\n\nOn 31 August, the United States, France, United Kingdom and Australia began humanitarian aid drops like food, water and medical supplies, to help prevent a potential massacre against the Shi'a Turkmen minority in Amirli. The US also carried out air strikes on ISIS positions around and near Amirli. Iraqi officials stated that they had reached Amirli and broken the siege and that the military was fighting to clear the areas around the town. This is known to be the first major turning point against the ISIL in Iraq.\n\nIn September, the United States sent an additional 250 US troops to protect American personnel, while the first engagement of the British military against ISIS targets took place when a British Panavia Tornado jet dropped a Paveway IV bomb on \"a heavy weapon position\" operated by ISIS in northwest Iraq at the end of the month. In addition, Australia offered 200 special forces to the Kurds and 600 Australian troops landed in the UAE. The following month, Australia authorized its special forces troops to go to Iraq as part of the anti-ISIS coalition that day, as well as authorizing airstrikes.\n\nIn mid-October ISIL forces captured the city of Hīt after the 300-strong Iraqi Army garrison abandoned and set afire its local base and supplies. As a result, an estimated 180,000 civilians (including refugees of the previous Anbar offensive) attempted to flee the area. Later that month, Operation Ashura is launched by Iraqi forces and Iranian-backed Shia militas, scoring a major victory and retaking the strategic town of Jurf al-Sakhar near Baghdad, and securing the way for millions of Shia pilgrims who were going to Karbala and Najaf On the Day of Ashura. Kurdish forces, meanwhile, recaptured Zumar.\n\nOn 21 October, ISIL seized terrain north of the Sinjar Mountains, thus cutting the area's escape route to Kurdish areas. The Yazidi militias then withdrew from there into the mountains, where the number of Yazidi civilian refugees was estimated at 2,000–7,000. The mountains had once again been partially surrounded by ISIL.\n\nIn mid-November, Iraqi forces retook control of most part of the strategic city Baiji from the Islamic State and broke the siege of the nearby oil refinery. However, by the following month, ISIL recaptured Baiji and reestablished the siege of the refinery.\n\nOn 17 December, Peshmerga forces, backed by 50 US-led coalition airstrikes on ISIL positions, launched an offensive to liberate Sinjar and to break the partial ISIL siege of the Sinjar Mountains. In less than two days, the siege was broken. After ISIL forces retreated, Kurdish fighters were initially faced with the clearing out mines around the area, but quickly opened a land corridor to those mountains, enabling Yazidis to be evacuated. The operation left 100 ISIL fighters dead.\n\nLater on 21 December, Syrian Kurdish YPG fighters south of the mountain range reached Peshmerga lines, thus linking their two fronts. The next day, the YPG broke through ISIL lines, thus opening a corridor from Syria to the town of Sinjar. By the evening, the Peshmerga took control of much of Sinjar.\n\nIn late January, Iraqi forces recaptured the entire province of Diyala from the Islamic State. Also, beginning of the Mosul Offensive in which Peshmerga forces captured large amount of territory surrounding Mosul.\n\nOn 2 March, Second Battle of Tikrit began and after more than a month of hard fighting, government troops and pro-Iranian Shiite militias overcame ISIL fighters and took Tikrit. This success was off-set in late May, by ISIL's capture of the provincial capital of Ramadi in Anbar province.\n\nOn 17 July, a suicide bomber detonated a car bomb in a crowded marketplace in the city of Khan Bani Saad during Eid al-Fitr celebrations, killing 120–130 people and injuring 130 more. Twenty more people were reported missing since the bombing.\n\nOn 13 August, a suicide bomber detonated a truck bomb in a crowded marketplace in Sadr City, Baghdad, killing at least 75 people and injuring 212 more. On 27 August, a suicide bomber assassinated General Abdel Rahman Abu Ragheef, deputy commander of operations in the province of Anbar, and Brigadier Safeen Abdel Majeed, a divisional commander.\n\nISIL forces lost Sinjar on November 13 to Kurdish forces.\n\nDuring 16–17 December, ISIL forces mounted a major offensive north-east of Mosul against Kurdish position but were repelled. Starting December 22, the Iraqi Army began a campaign to recapture Ramadi. On December 28, Iraq declared Ramadi liberated from ISIL forces and under the control of the Iraqi government.\n\nIraqi forces regained control of Hīt and Ar-Rutbah in offensive operations in 2016 and then Fallujah as well in the Third Battle of Fallujah ending in June 2016.\n\nOn 16 October 2016, the Battle of Mosul began.\n\nIn May, a member from the Canadian Special Forces Joint Task Force 2 disrupted a Daesh attack on Iraqi security forces. The target was successfully hit at 3,540 metres from a high-rise, setting the world's longest recorded sniper kill.\n\nIn April, the Iraqi Army, with the help of the Popular Mobilization Forces, launched the Western Nineveh offensive to capture territory west of Mosul. The PMU were able to reach the Iraq–Syria border, meeting up with territory controlled by the Syrian Democratic Forces.\n\nOn 10 July, Iraqi Army forces captured Mosul. Following the victory in Mosul, the Iraqi Army launched operations to sweep what remained of ISIL-controlled territory in the country. The Tal Afar offensive was launched on 20 August and completed by 31 August with a major Iraqi Army victory. The Hawija offensive started in late September and was complete by 5 October.\n\nOn 25 September, Iraqi Kurdistan held an unofficial independence referendum. Turnout was reported to be 72.83% with 92.73% voting in favor of independence from Iraq. In response to the referendum, the Iraqi Army launched a short offensive on 15 October against Iraqi Kurdistan to recapture the disputed city of Kirkuk with the help of the Talabani family and some PUK members. Following the capture of Kirkuk and Sinjar, Masoud Barzani announced his intentions to step down as President of Iraqi Kurdistan, effective 1 November, after being in power for 12 years. His gamble of pushing through with the unofficial referendum ended with the disputed territories being recaptured by Iraq and with the Kurdish statebuilding project being left abandoned.\n\nIraq captured ISIL's last two strongholds of Al-Qa'im and Rawah on 17 November. After the Iraqi army had captured the last ISIL-held areas in the al-Jazira desert bordering Syria, on 9 December the prime minister announced the end of the war. A victory parade was held \"in Baghdad's heavily fortified Green Zone\" on the following day, and Prime Minister al-Abadi declared that 10 December would become a new annual holiday for Iraq. However, other government officials and sources, such as the Australian Government, British Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson, and Reuters, warned that they expected ISIL to fight on by other means, such as guerilla warfare and terrorism. Despite the victory announcements, ISIS retained its natural hideouts in Wadi Hauran.\n\nAlthough the civil war was declared over, ISIL continued a lower-scale insurgency.\n\nMonths of relative calm in Baghdad ended with over 27 people killed by suicide bombers over a period of 3 days in mid-January 2018. Although there were no immediate claims of responsibility, it was reported that such attacks had usually been the work of the jihadist group Islamic State (IS) in the past, and that elements of the group were still active north of the city despite the government's claim of victory in December 2017. On Wednesday January 17, two days after the two suicide bombings on January 15, IS \"claimed responsibility for the twin suicide bombings in Baghdad this week\", though the \"New York Times\" suggested that the delay, and a number of errors in the claim, may show that the group's \"media apparatus has been disrupted\".\n\n\"The Times\" meanwhile reported on 16 January that the Iraqi Army had launched an operation to oust ISIL from the Bosifian islands, a stronghold being used as a militant hideout. The hideout, located in Saladin governorate, was discovered in December and is one of the 10 patches where the group is still active. About 100 militants were killed by Iraqi forces in the past one week. An operation was launched on 7 February to hunt down the remnants of ISIL in Saladin Governorate, as well as members of Ansar al-Sunna and the \"White Flags\", a new insurgent group reportedly consisting of former ISIL members and Kurdish mafia groups. \n\nDespite these efforts, ISIL continued to hold out in the western desert and wage an insurgency campaign against government forces in northern Iraq by mid-2018, most notably in Diyala and Kirkuk Governorates. As the military could not protect the isolated hinterland of these regions, ISIL forces would repeatedly attack remote villages, defeating their self-defense groups, kidnap people for ransom and forcing local civilians to flee. Sometimes, ISIL fighters would even openly flaunt their presence, placing their flag at well visible points and driving around with motorcycles, cars, and technicals. The group also targeted followers of Yarsanism (called Kaka'i in Iraq) around Kirkuk, whom the militants consider unbelievers. In course of one notable attack, ISIL fighters raided a house in a village to the south of Shirqat on 11 March 2018, killing a tribal sheikh who led a Sunni militia against the group as well as three others. In July 2018, the Iraqi Army, Popular Mobilization Forces and Peshmerga launched Operation \"Vengeance for the Martyrs\" to destroy ISIL remnants in Diyala and Kirkuk Governorates, supported by the Iraqi Air Force and US-led coalition.\n\nBy April 2018, hundreds of ISIS fighters were still located in the Anbar desert.\n\nFollowing ISIL's defeat, the group has regardless continued an insurgency. However they have been greatly weakened and violence in Iraq has been sharply reduced in 2018. Only 95 people lost their lives during the month of May, the lowest figure in 10 years.\n\nNearly 19,000 civilians have been killed in Iraq in ISIL-linked violence between January 2014 and October 2015. ISIL executed up to 1,700 Shia Iraqi Air Force cadets from Camp Speicher near Tikrit on 12 June 2014. The genocide of Yazidis by ISIL has led to the expulsion, flight and effective exile of the Yazidi people from their ancestral lands in northern Iraq.\n\nAccording to \"Newsweek\", Amnesty International claimed that \"Iraqi government forces and paramilitary militias have tortured, arbitrarily detained, forcibly disappeared and executed thousands of civilians who have fled the rule of the Islamic State militant group\". The report, titled \"Punished for Daesh's crimes\"', alleges that thousands of Sunni men and boys have been forcibly disappeared by Iraqi government forces and militias.\n\n"}
{"id": "2099076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2099076", "title": "Joe Cinque's Consolation", "text": "Joe Cinque's Consolation\n\nJoe Cinque’s Consolation: A True Story of Death, Grief and the Law is a non-fiction book written by Australian author Helen Garner, and published in 2004. It is an account of Garner's presence at the separate trials of Anu Singh and her friend Madhavi Rao, who were accused of murdering Singh's boyfriend Joe Cinque and Garner's attempts to understand the preceding events that led to his death as well as the legal and personal responses to the crime. The book was adapted into a 2016 film of the same name.\n\nA national bestseller, the book has sold 100,000 copies.\n\nAnu Singh, a law student at Canberra's Australian National University, killed her boyfriend Joe Cinque on 26 October 1997 with a lethal dose of heroin after she laced his coffee with Rohypnol. A number of her friends and acquaintances had been informed of her intent to kill him and some were present at parties she held in which he was drugged; none of these friends alerted authorities or police. She was subsequently found guilty of his manslaughter. The most involved of the friends, Madhavi Rao, was acquitted of all charges. Rao moved abroad and adopted a new identity after the conclusion of the trials, while Singh was released from prison in 2001.\n\n\"Joe Cinque's Consolation\" begins with Garner being informed of Singh's second 1999 trial and its circumstances, when it was already in progress. She becomes interested and travels from her Sydney residence to attend the hearings in Canberra. She relates her impressions of the trial, including her negative reactions to Singh and her mystification at Rao's and others' lack of shock at and complicity in Singh's plans, which she determines to be a state of apathy and abandonment of compassion. As the trial progresses she becomes acquainted with Cinque's mother Maria and feels that the court system is not distributing sufficient justice to the victim or his family. \n\nAfter the trial Garner interviews Singh's family and attempts to interview Singh and Rao, but both refuse or are uncontactable. Because of Singh's refusal to be interviewed or contacted, Garner bases most of her information about the woman from erstwhile friends, anecdotal evidence and court transcripts. Singh is portrayed as somewhat narcissistic, with significant self-esteem issues. Additionally, Garner notes the accused kept diaries about her interactions with men as a teen in which she treated them as disposable commodities, wore high heels to high school, and according to anecdotal evidence from her former best friend, treated Cinque with an element of derision–sometimes mocking him and making jibes about what she thought was a lack of intellect to her friends. Many of Singh's former friends thought her to be shallow and self-obsessed. \n\nAs the book progresses, Garner becomes interested in victim's rights, interviews the presiding judge and repeatedly visits and becomes a friend of Cinque's family, and eventually concludes that the purpose of the book is to be consolation for Joe Cinque, as the trial proceedings could not be. \n\nGarner uses the case to explore far-reaching themes of human behaviour, culpability and responsibility, duty of care, victims' rights and crime/punishment. She also touches on issues that range from the nature of human memory, including how it is not explicitly clear or cohesive, nor is it linear, and thus under cross-examination in a courtroom, any kind of lapse in memory, or contradiction of a preceding statement, may portray a person as a liar or an unworthy witness. \n\nClass and cultural clashes are drawn between the working class Italian-Australian family of the Cinques, compared to the \"professional class\" Indian-Australian family of the Singhs. That comparison starkly juxtaposes the blue-collar or working class Cinques (although Joe Cinque had a degree in engineering) with the middle class status of the Singhs. \n\nFurthermore, the use of psychiatry in law, is alluded to various times. Garner questions whether a \"psychological sophistication\" that has developed in light of modern behavioural science overrides the fact that some actions are plainly wrong and should be punishable, regardless of the pathology of the person who commits them. She poses this question in reference to Anu Singh. Singh's defence team used her \"abnormality of mind\" (a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder and psychotic depression was referenced in the court proceedings) as an explanation for her killing Cinque, akin to the insanity defense. \n\nFinally, Garner laments on the perfunctory decision that the Crown psychiatrist would not be given direct access to Singh, and her diagnosis would be made instead on the basis of transcripts and interviews with mental health professionals in the past – Garner admits this \"floored\" her. Additionally, one reviewer writing for the \"Australian Book Review\" opined that it was Maria Cinque who called out the \"flaky moral relativism\" of the ANU students who were indifferent to Singh's plans, as well as the Canberra courts, the defence lawyers and the judge who handled the case. The complicity of the students, and whether or not they played a role in Cinque's death by not alerting authorities, was also a topic debated extensively throughout the text.\n\n\"Joe Cinque's Consolation\" was reviewed in a number of major newspapers and magazines. It was praised for its writing and its positioning as Joe Cinque's story. Criticisms of the book centered on it failing to tell the story it set out to tell, particularly its inability to explain Singh or her actions and her failure to engage with the purpose of the adversarial justice system. Some saw this as a deliberate attempt by Garner as an author angle she chose to pursue–to honour Cinque, whose family had been not given a voice or adequate justice by the court. In his review for the \"Australian Book Review\", Peter Rose remarked that \"books such as Joe Cinque’s Consolation often dignify the parents’ agony and indignation. In Maria Cinque we have one of the great stalwarts in this literature of loss. She is always there in court – listening, occasionally hissing and weeping, raging when she must. ‘They were keeping vigil,’ Garner says, marvelling at the Cinques’ stamina. Which is what Garner becomes conscious of doing.\" He further commented on the book being Garner's conscious testament to the injustice dealt to Joe Cinque and his family: \"For what are these books but tributes to the dead, swipes at our forgetfulness, minor consolations for the living: the parents and siblings and friends who feel devastated and betrayed? One thinks of all the unattested lives, the little murders\".\n\nElisabeth Hanscombe, writing for Academia, wrote that Garner's writing, and her depiction of Anu Singh, addressed the notion that for a layperson it \"may perhaps be difficult to understand that someone can be extremely intelligent, can function well academically, be beautiful and at the same time be seriously disturbed\".\n\nOne reviewer compared it with \"The First Stone\" (1995), noting that it was less about the underlying debates and more about the story. Another, Maryanne Dever (writing for the \"Australian Women's Book Review\") criticised similarities in the themes of both books, particularly Garner's perceived hostility to the women subjects and their physical appearance.\n\nThe cover of the re-printed edition from 2006 contains a blurb extracted from a review in \"The Bulletin\", which reads: \"A book which functions at one level as a psychological mystery, but at deeper levels is an exploration of the adequacy of the law to dispense justice, and the responsibility that human beings have to each other...It is told with compassion, a singular kind of honesty, and unadorned intelligence\".\n\nBoth Singh herself and Cinque's parents gave interviews shortly after the book's release. Singh recounted her own memories of the killing and her feelings about it after her release and expressed regret at not agreeing to an interview by Garner. She told interviewers that she wished to redress some of the book's imbalance towards her. \n\nMaria Cinque said that she would never forgive Singh for killing her son and did not believe her defence against the murder charge. Garner also stated that she still did not understand or empathise with Singh, although some aspects of her behaviour resonated.\n\n\nTwelve years after publication, the book was adapted into a 2016 film by writer/director Sotiris Dounoukos and Matt Rubinstein, and produced by Matt Reeder of Night Kitchen Productions. Principal photography ran for seven weeks in Canberra during April to June 2015. There was a principal cast of around 40 main and supporting characters, plus around 300 extras.\n"}
{"id": "11291269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11291269", "title": "Kane-DuPage Regional Museum Association", "text": "Kane-DuPage Regional Museum Association\n\nKDRMA (Kane-DuPage Regional Museum Association) is an association of more than 60 museums and historical societies in Kane and DuPage counties in Illinois. \"The organization serves its members through collaborative programming, promotion, and professional development and networking\".\n\nKDRMA also sponsors the annual \"Passport to Adventure\" designed to encourage children and their families to visit a variety of museums in the two counties. A passport booklet can be picked up at participating museums and libraries in Kane and DuPage counties. Choosing from over 100 sites to visit children can complete an activity and have their passport stamped at each site. Children visiting 7 or more sites will receive a prize. The Summer Passport To Adventure begins on Memorial Day and ends on Labor Day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16059292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16059292", "title": "List of health and medical strikes", "text": "List of health and medical strikes\n\nThe following is a list of health and medical strikes:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "655874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655874", "title": "Long barrow", "text": "Long barrow\n\nLong barrows, also known as chambered tombs, were a style of monument constructed across Western Europe in the fifth and fourth millennia BCE, during the Early Neolithic period. Typically constructed from earth and either timber or stone, those using the latter material represent the oldest widespread tradition of stone construction in the world.\n\nThe long barrows consist of an earthen tumulus, or \"barrow\", sometimes with a timber or stone chamber in one end. These monuments often contained human remains interred within their chambers, and as a result, are often interpreted as tombs, although there are some examples where this appears not to have happened. The choice of whether to use timber or stone may have had more to do with the availability of local materials than any cultural differences.\n\nThe earliest examples developed in Iberia and western France during the mid-fifth millennium BCE. The tradition then spread northwards, into the British Isles and then the Low Countries and Southern Scandinavia. Each area developed its own regional variations of the long barrow tradition, often exhibiting their own architectural innovations. The purpose and meaning of such barrows remains an issue of debate among archaeologists. One argument is that they are religious sites, perhaps erected as part of a system of ancestor veneration or as a religion spread by missionaries or settlers. An alternative explanation views them primarily in economic terms, as territorial markers delineating the areas controlled by different communities as they transitioned toward farming.\n\nAround 40,000 chambered long barrows survive today. Many have been excavated by archaeologists, from whom our knowledge about them derives.\n\nGiven their dispersal across Western Europe, long barrows have been given different names in the various different languages of this region. \nThe term \"barrow\" is a southern English dialect word for an earthen tumulus, and was adopted as a scholarly term for such monuments by the 17th century English antiquarian John Aubrey. Synonyms found in other parts of Britain included \"low\" in Cheshire, Staffordshire, and Derbyshire, \"tump\" in Gloucestershire and Hereford, \"howe\" in Northern England and Scotland, and \"cairn\" in Scotland.\nAnother term to have achieved international usage has been \"dolmen\", a Breton word meaning \"table-stone\"; this is typically used in reference to the stone chambers found in some, although not all, long barrows.\n\nThe historian Ronald Hutton suggested that such sites could also be termed \"tomb-shrines\" to reflect the fact that they appear to have often been used both to house the remains of the dead and to have been used in ritualised activities.\n\nThe decision as to whether a long barrow used wood or stone appears to have been based largely on the availability of resources.\nSome of the long barrows contained stone-lined chambers within them. Early 20th century archaeologists began to call these monuments \"chambered tombs\". The archaeologists Roy and Lesley Adkins referred to these monuments as \"megalithic long barrows\". In most cases, local stone was used where it was available. The style of the chamber falls into two categories. One form, known as \"grottes sepulchrales artificielles\" in French archaeology, are dug into the earth. The second form, which is more widespread, are known as \"cryptes dolmeniques\" in French archaeology and involved the chamber being erected above ground. Many chambered long barrows contained side chambers within them, often producing a cruciform shape. Others had no such side alcoves; these are known as \"undifferentiated tombs\".\n\nThe term \"earthen long barrow\" was coined by the British archaeologist Stuart Piggott.\nThese long barrows might have used timber because stone was not available.\n\nThe construction of long barrows in the Early Neolithic would have required the co-operation of a number of different individuals and would have represented an important investment in time and resources.\n\nMany were altered and restyled over their long period of use.\nAscertaining at what date a chambered long barrow was constructed is difficult for archaeologists as a result of the various modifications that were made to the monument during the Early Neolithic. Similarly, both modifications and later damage can make it difficult to determine the nature of the original long barrow design.\n\nEnviro-archaeological studies have demonstrated that many of the long barrows were erected in wooded landscapes. In Britain, these chambered long barrows are typically located on prominent hills and slopes, in particular being located above rivers and inlets and overlooking valleys. In Britain, long barrows were also often constructed near to causewayed enclosures, a form of earthen monument.\n\nAcross Europe, about 40,000 long barrows are known to survive from the Early Neolithic. They are found across much of Western Europe; stretching from southeast Spain up to southern Sweden and taking in the British Isles to the west. The long barrows are not the world's oldest known structures using stone—they are predated by Göbekli Tepe in modern Turkey—but they do represent the oldest widespread tradition of using stone in construction. The archaeologist Frances Lynch has described them as \"the oldest built structures in Europe\" to survive. Although found across this large area, they can be subdivided into clear regionalised traditions based on architectural differences.\n\nExcavation has revealed that some of the long barrows in the area of modern Spain, Portugal, and western France were erected in the mid-fifth millennium BCE, making these older than those long barrows further north. Although the general area in which the oldest long barrows were built is therefore known, archaeologists do not know exactly where the tradition started nor which long barrows are the very first ones to have been built. It therefore appears that the architectural tradition developed in this southern area of Western Europe before spreading north, along the Atlantic coast. The tradition had reached Britain by the first half of the fourth millennium BCE, either soon after farming or in some cases perhaps just before it.\nIt later spread further north on mainland Europe, for instance arriving in the Netherlands in the second half of the fourth millennium BCE.\n\nLater in the Neolithic, burial practices tended to place greater emphasis on the individual, suggesting a growing social hierarchy and a move away from collective burial.\nOne of the last chambered tombs erected was Bryn Celli Ddu in Anglesey, Wales, built long after people stopped building them across most of Western Europe. The conscious anachronism of the monument led excavators to suggest that its construction was part of a deliberate attempt by people to restore older religious practices that were extinct elsewhere.\n\nHutton suggested that this tradition \"defines the Early Neolithic of Western Europe\" more than any other. For the archaeologist Caroline Malone, the long barrows are \"some of the most impressive and aesthetically distinctive constructions of prehistoric Britain\". Her fellow archaeologist Frances Lynch stated that these long barrows \"can still inspire awe, wonder and curiosity even in modern populations familiar with Gothic cathedrals and towering skyscrapers.\" \n\nIn the area of southern Spain, Portugal, southwestern France, and Brittany, the long barrows typically include large stone chambers.\n\nIn Britain, earthen long barrows predominate across much of the southern and eastern parts of the island.\nAround 300 earthen long barrows are known from across the eastern side of Britain, from Aberdeenshire in the north down to the South Downs in the south, with two projections westward into Dorset and Galloway. Excavation has suggested that these earthen long barrows were likely constructed between 3800 and 3000 BCE.\n\nAnother prominent regional tradition in Britain is the Cotswold-Severn Group found in the west of the island. These are typically chambered long barrows, and contained human bone in comparatively large quantities, averaging between 40 and 50 people in each.\n\nThe long barrows found in the Netherlands and northern Germany also used stone in their construction where it was available.\nThe examples of long barrows found in parts of Poland are also typically earthen rather than megalithic.\nFurther north, in Denmark and southern Sweden, the long barrows typically used stone in their construction.\n\nThe purpose and meaning of Early Neolithic long barrows are not known, however, archaeologists can make suggestions on the basis of recurring patterns that can be observed within the tradition. Archaeologists, however, have not agreed upon the most likely meaning and purpose of these monuments, with various different interpretations being put forward. Lynch suggested that the long barrows likely had \"broad religious and social roles\" for the communities who built and used them, comparing them in this way to the churches of medieval and modern Europe.\n\nMany of the long barrows were used as tombs in which to place the remains of deceased individuals. For this reason, archaeologists like Malone have referred to them as \"houses of the dead\". Conversely, many of the long barrows do not appear to have been used as tombs; various examples that have been excavated by archaeologists have shown no evidence of having had human remains deposited there. The archaeologists David Lewis-Williams and David Peace, however, noted that these long barrows were more than tombs, also being \"religious and social foci\", suggesting that they were places where the dead were visited by the living and where people maintained relationships with the deceased.\n\nIn some cases, the bones deposited in the chamber may have been old when placed there. In other instances, they may have been placed into the chamber long after the long barrow was built. In some instances, collections of bone originally included in the chamber might have been removed and replaced during the Early Neolithic itself.\n\nThe human remains placed in long barrows often included a mix of men, women, and children. \nThe bones of various individuals were often mixed together. This may have reflected a desire to obliterate distinctions of wealth and status among the deceased.\nNot all of those who died in the Early Neolithic were buried in these long barrows, although what criteria was used to determine whose remained were interred there and whose were not remains unknown.\nLarge sections of the Early Neolithic population were not buried in them, although how their bodily remains are dealt with is not clear. It is possible that they were left in the open air. \n\nIt is also not known where the act of excarnation took place prior to the deposition of bones within the chambers. Some human bones have been found in the ditches of causewayed enclosures, a form of Early Neolithic earthen monument, while evidence for the Early Neolithic outdoor exposure of corpses has also been found at Hambledon Hill. The postholes found in front of many long barrows may also have represented the bases of platforms on which excarnation took place.\n\nWhen entering the chambers to either add or remove new material, individuals would likely have been exposed to the smell of decaying corpses. It is unknown if entering this area was therefore seen by Early Neolithic Europeans as an ordeal to be overcome or an honourable job to be selected for.\n\nIn some chambers, human remains were arranged and organised according to the type of bone or the age and sex of the individual that they came from, factors that determined which chamber they were placed in.\nLynch noted that \"the bulk of our surviving evidence suggests that collectivity became and remained the norm until the late neolithic\".\n\nComparatively rarely, grave goods have been found interred alongside human bone inside the long barrows. Where these have been found, archaeologists have typically interpreted them as the remains of funerary ceremonies or of feasts. The choice of grave goods included reflects regional variation. In the Cotswold-Severn Group in southwestern England, cattle bones were commonly found within the chambers, where they had often been treated in a manner akin to the human remains.\n\nSometimes human remains were deposited in the chambers over many centuries. For instance, at West Kennet Long Barrow in Oxfordshire, Southern England, the earliest depositions of human remains were radiocarbon dated to the early-to-mid fourth millennium BCE, while a later deposition of human remains was found to belong to the Beaker culture, thus indicating a date in the final centuries of the third millennium BCE; this meant that human remains had been placed into the chamber intermittently over a period of 1500 years.\nThis indicates that some chambered long barrows remained in sporadic use until the Late Neolithic.\n\nIn various cases, archaeologists have found specific bones absent from the assemblages within the chambers. For instance, at Fussell's Lodge in Wiltshire, southern England, a number of skeletal assemblages were found to be missing not just small bones but also long bones and skulls. It is therefore possible that some bones were deliberately removed from the chambers in the Early Neolithic for use in ritualistic activities.\n\nThe source of inspiration for the design of the chambered long barrows remains unclear. Suggestions that have proved popular among archaeologists is that they were inspired either by natural rock formations or by the shape of wooden houses. It has been suggested that their design was based on the wooden long houses found in central Europe during the Early Neolithic, however there is a gap of seven centuries between the last known long houses and the first known chambered long barrows.\n\nAccording to one possible explanation, the long barrows served as markers of place that were connected to Early Neolithic ideas about cosmology and spirituality, and accordingly were centres of ritual activity mediated by the dead. The inclusion of human remains has been used to argue that these long barrows were involved in a form of ancestor veneration. Malone suggested that the prominence of these barrows suggested that ancestors were deemed far more important to Early Neolithic people than their Mesolithic forebears. In the early twentieth century, this interpretation of the long barrows as religious sites was often connected to the idea that they were the holy sites of a new religion spread by either settlers or missionaries. This explanation has been less popular with archaeologists since the 1970s.\n\nAdopting an approach based in cognitive archaeology, Lewis-Williams and Pearce argued that the chambered long barrows \"reflected and at the same time constituted... a culturally specific expression of the neurologically generated tiered cosmos\", a cosmos mediated by a system of symbols. They suggested that the entrances to the chambers were viewed as transitional zones where sacrificial rituals took place, and that they were possibly spaces for the transformation of the dead using fire.\n\nA second explanation is that these long barrows were intrinsically connected to the transition to farming, representing a new way of looking at the land. In this interpretation, the long barrows served as territorial markers, dividing up the land, signifying that it was occupied and controlled by a particular community, and thus warning away rival groups. In defending this interpretation, Malone noted that each \"tomb-territory\" typically had access to a range of soils and landscape types in its vicinity, suggesting that it could have represented a viable territorial area for a particular community. Also supporting this interpretation is the fact that the distribution of chambered long barrows on some Scottish islands shows patterns that closely mirror modern land divisions between farms and crofts. This interpretation also draws ethnographic parallels from recorded communities around the world, who have also used monuments to demarcate territory.\n\nThis idea became popular among archaeologists in the 1980s and 1990s, and—in downplaying religion while emphasising an economic explanation for these monuments—it was influenced by Marxist ideas then popular in the European archaeological establishment. In the early twenty-first century, archaeologists began to challenge this idea, as evidence emerged that much of Early Neolithic Britain was forested and its inhabitants were likely pastoralists rather than agriculturalists. Accordingly, communities in Britain would have been semi-nomadic, with little need for territorial demarcation or clear markings of land ownership. Also, this explanation fails to explain why the chambered long barrows should be clustered in certain areas rather than being evenly distributed throughout the landscape.\n\nMany of the chambered long barrows have not remained intact, having been damaged and broken up during the millennia. In some cases, most of the chamber has been removed, leaving only the three-stone dolmen.\n\nThe first serious study of chambered long barrows took place in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, when the mounds that covered chambers were removed by agriculture.\nBy the nineteenth century, antiquarians and archaeologists had come to recognise this style of monument as a form of tomb. In the latter nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, archaeologists like V. Gordon Childe held to the cultural diffusionist view that such Western European monuments had been based on tombs originally produced in parts of the eastern Mediterranean region, suggesting that their ultimate origin was either in Egypt or in Crete. In this view, the tradition was seen as having spread westward as part of some form of \"megalithic religion\".\n\nA seminal study of the long barrows authored by the Welsh archaeologist Glyn Daniel was published in 1958 as \"The Megalith Builders of Western Europe\".\nIn 1950, the archaeologist Glyn Daniel stated that about a tenth of known chambered long barrows in Britain had been excavated, while regional field studies helped to list them.\nFew of the earlier excavations recorded or retained any human remains found in the chamber.\nFrom the 1960s onward, archaeological research increasingly focused on examining regional groups of long barrows rather than the wider architectural tradition. From this decade onward, the meticulous excavation of various long barrows also led to the widespread recognition that long barrows were often multi-phase monuments which had been changed over time.\n\nUp until the 1970s, archaeologists widely believed that the long barrows of Western Europe were based on Near Eastern models.\n\nThe archaeologists Lewis-Williams and Pearce opined that the emphasis on classification of these monuments into sub-types could be a self-defeating aim for archaeologists, as it distracted them from the task of explaining the meaning and purpose behind them.\n\nIn 2015 the first long barrow in thousands of years, the Long Barrow at All Cannings, inspired by those built in the Neolithic, was built on land just outside the village of All Cannings. The project was instigated by Tim Daw, a local farmer and steward of Stonehenge. The barrow was designed to have a large number of private niches within the stone and earth structure to receive cremation urns.\n\nThe structure received significant media attention, with national press writing extensively about the revival of the structures, and various episodes of filming, for example by BBC \"Countryfile\" as it was being built. It was fully subscribed within eighteen months.\n\nThis was followed soon after by new barrows at: \n\n\nNotable examples of surviving long barrows include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38828659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38828659", "title": "Michael Rank", "text": "Michael Rank\n\nMichael Rank (1950 – May 20, 2017) was a British author. He was a journalist in China in the early 1980s, and visited Tibet in 1983.\n\nRank graduated in 1972 from Downing College, Cambridge, University of Cambridge in Chinese studies. He also pursued studies in Peking University and Fudan University in Shanghai from 1974 to 1976.\n\nBased in London, Rank was Reuters correspondent in Beijing. He visited the city of Rajin in North Korea in 2010. He also published articles in \"The Guardian\", \"Asia Times Online\", \"BBC Wildlife\", and 'North Korea Economy Watch'.\n\nHe later became a translator from Chinese to English and a freelance journalist. His interest in birds led him to study the life of Frank Ludlow and the history of English School of Gyantse. One of his articles on this subject was published by the Namgyal Institute of Tibetology.\n\nHe published three articles in the Royal Society for Asian Affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1895870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1895870", "title": "National personification", "text": "National personification\n\nA national personification is an anthropomorphism of a nation or its people. It may appear in editorial cartoons and propaganda.\n\nSome early personifications in the Western world tended to be national manifestations of the majestic wisdom and war goddess Minerva/Athena, and often took the Latin name of the ancient Roman province. Examples of this type include Britannia, Germania, Hibernia, Helvetia and Polonia. Examples of personifications of the Goddess of Liberty include Marianne, the Statue of Liberty (\"Liberty Enlightening the World\"), and many examples of United States coinage. Another ancient model was Roma, a female deity who personified the city of Rome and more broadly, the Roman state, and who was revived in the 20th Century as the personification of Mussolini's \"New Roman Empire\". Examples of representations of the everyman or citizenry in addition to the nation itself are Deutscher Michel, John Bull and Uncle Sam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39293751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39293751", "title": "Neolithic and Bronze Age rock art in the British Isles", "text": "Neolithic and Bronze Age rock art in the British Isles\n\nIn the Neolithic and Bronze Age British Isles, rock art was produced across various parts of the islands. Petroglyphic in nature, the majority of such carvings are abstract in design, usually cup and ring marks, although examples of spirals or figurative depictions of weaponry are also known. Only one form of rock art in Europe, this late prehistoric tradition had connections with others along Atlantic Europe, particularly in Galicia.\n\nThe study of rock art in the British Isles was largely initiated by amateur researchers rather than academic or other professional archaeologists.\n\nSurviving examples of rock art in the British Isles are believed to represent only a small sample of that which had been produced in the Neolithic and Bronze Ages. Many examples of petroglyphs would have eroded away, thereby being lost to contemporary scholarship. In other examples, images might have been painted onto rock, or marked onto less permanent surfaces, such as wood, livestock or the human body, thereby also failing to survive into the present.\n\nRock art had first appeared in Atlantic Europe by the late fourth millennium BCE.\nIn Britain, rock art had ceased by the time of the agricultural intensification in the Late Bronze Age, the first millennium BCE.\n\nWithin Britain, the majority of recorded Neolithic and Bronze Age rock art comes from the northern part of the island. Cup-and-ring marks are particularly common in this area.\n\nCup-and-ring marks are usually attributed to the Neolithic and Early Bronze Ages, while attempts at building a relative chronology have been tried in Dumbartonshire.\n\nOver 70 examples of late prehistoric rock art have been identified in the South West of Britain, being far sparser than those found in the North. This may in part be due to the harder nature of the natural rock in the area, which is largely plutonic granite, alongside a lack of research focused in this region. Rock art specialist George Nash considered the petroglyphs of this region to constitute a distinct artistic tradition from that in the North.\nThe majority of petroglyphs in South West Britain are cup marks, engraved both onto the rock face and on boulders, as at the Castallack Menhir.\n\nArchaeologists are aware of three instances in South West Britain where weapons are depicted in petroglyphs: at Boscawen-un stone circle in Cornwall, at Badbury Rings Barrow in Devon, and at Stonehenge in Wiltshire. Using relative dating, the weapons depicted on Boscawen-un have been tentatively dated to \"circa\" 2000 BCE, while those at Badbury Rings and Stonehenge have been dated to \"c\". 1800 BCE.\n\nSeveral petroglyphic labyrinths have also been discovered in South West Britain. The best known of these are a neighbouring pair that have been found engraved onto a shale outcrop at Rocky Valley, Cornwall. Apparently incised using a metal implement, Nash suggested that the southern labyrinth had previously been engraved using a stone tool. Publicly revealed in 1948, it has been suggested that they are Bronze Age in date, due to similarities with Bronze Age petroglyphs in Galicia and Valcamonica. Conversely, many rock art researchers do not consider them to be prehistoric, with Saward arguing that they were created between the 16th and 18th-centuries, when the neighbouring Trewethett Mill was operational. As evidence, she noted that labyrinths were a popular motif in folk customs at the time, and that the good state of preservation would not be present if they had prehistoric origins.\n\nCup-and-ring marks are particularly common in this area.\n\nPetroglyphs can be found carved onto Early Neolithic passage tombs, such as Newgrange.\n\nThroughout the British Isles, most of the research into rock art has been undertaken by amateurs rather than professional archaeologists, to varying degrees of quality.\n\nIn 1997, archaeologist Richard Bradley of the University of Reading published \"Rock Art and the Prehistory of Atlantic Europe\", the first study of such petroglyphs across Atlantic Europe. In 1999, Stan Beckensall published \"British Prehistoric Rock Art\", the first regional overview of the island's rock art.\n\nThe purposes of Neolithic and Bronze Age petroglyphs in the British Isles have long been debated, with amateur rock art researcher Ronald Morris listing 104 different proposals that he had encountered, ranking them according to what he believed to be their plausibility.\nIt has been noted that the meanings and usage of such rock art might have changed over time, as they came to be encountered by communities unaware of their original purpose.\n\nSmith and Walker suggested that British cupmarks may have acted as directional signs, being placed alongside pathways to guide those travelling along them.\n\nOne suggestion is that the motifs found in the rock art of the British Isles are depictions of phosphenes, entoptic phenomenon produced through the disturbance of the optic nerve that result from altered states of consciousness. Such altered states might have been induced by the use of hallucinogenic drugs, evidence for which exists from Neolithic and Bronze Age Europe.\n\nThis idea was first applied to the petroglyphs on the Neolithic monuments of the British Isles by David Lewis-Williams and T. Dowson. They noted that the depiction of phosphenes could appear independently in different areas due their common basis in the human nervous system. Lewis-Williams and David Pearce expanded on this idea in their book \"Inside the Neolithic Mind\".\nBradley extended these ideas to suggest that the circular designs on open air petroglyphs might have represented a pathway that led into the rock.\n\nDronfield defended the entoptic explanation by way of ethnographic comparison. Examining art produced by a society that placed great emphasis on altered states of consciousness with another that did not, he highlighted that the former contained motifs identified as phosphenes while the latter did not. Although believing that it represents \"a helpful clue to the roots of Atlantic rock art\", Bradley noted that even if the earliest instances of rock art were based upon entoptic phenomenon, they may have become divorced from their original inspiration as they were more copied elsewhere.\n\nSmith and Walker also suggested that cup-and-ring marks were symbolically linked to water, having sacred associations in late prehistoric society. As evidence, they noted that a number of the larger cups, which they refer to as basins, would have collected rain water. They believed that cup-and-ring markings looked like the ripples produced when raindrops hit water.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326978", "title": "Nominative determinism", "text": "Nominative determinism\n\nNominative determinism is the hypothesis that people tend to gravitate towards areas of work that fit their names. The term was first used in the magazine \"New Scientist\" in 1994, after the magazine's humorous Feedback column noted several studies carried out by researchers with remarkably fitting surnames. These included a book on polar explorations by Daniel Snowman and an article on urology by researchers named Splatt and Weedon. These and other examples led to light-hearted speculation that some sort of psychological effect was at work. Since the term appeared, nominative determinism has been an irregularly recurring topic in \"New Scientist\", as readers continue to submit examples. Nominative determinism differs from the related concept aptronym, and its synonyms aptonym, namephreak, and Perfect Fit Last Name, in that it focusses on causality. \"Aptronym\" merely means the name is fitting, without saying anything about why it has come to fit.\n\nThe idea that people are drawn to professions that fit their name was suggested by psychologist Carl Jung, citing as an example Sigmund Freud who studied pleasure and whose surname means \"joy\". A few recent empirical studies have indicated that certain professions are disproportionately represented by people with appropriate surnames (and sometimes given names), though the methods of these studies have been challenged. One explanation for nominative determinism is \"implicit egotism\", which states that humans have an unconscious preference for things they associate with themselves. An alternative explanation is genetic: a person might be named Smith or Taylor because that was originally their occupation, and they would pass on their genes to their descendants, including an aptitude for activities involving strength in the case of Smith, or dexterity in the case of Taylor.\n\nBefore people could gravitate towards areas of work that matched their names, many people were given names that matched their area of work. The way people are named has changed over time. In pre-urban times people were only known by a single name – for example, the Anglo-Saxon name Beornheard. Single names were chosen for their meaning or given as nicknames. In England it was only after the Norman conquest that surnames were added, although there were a few earlier bynames that were not hereditary, such as Edmund Ironside. Surnames were created to fit the person, mostly from patronyms (e.g., John son of William becomes John Williamson), occupational descriptions (e.g., John Carpenter), character or traits (e.g., John Long), or location (e.g., John from Acton became John Acton). Names were not initially hereditary; only by the mid-14th century did they gradually become so. Surnames relating to trades or craft were the first to become hereditary, as the craft often persisted within the family for generations. The appropriateness of occupational names has decreased over time, because tradesmen did not always follow their fathers: an early example from the 14th century is \"Roger Carpenter the pepperer\".\n\nAnother aspect of naming was the importance attached to the wider meaning contained in a name. In 17th-century England it was believed that choosing a name for a child should be done carefully. Children should live according to the message contained in, or the meaning of their names. In 1652 William Jenkyn, an English clergyman, argued that first names should be \"as a thread tyed about the finger to make us mindful of the errand we came into the world to do for our Master\". In 1623, at a time when Puritan names such as Faith, Fortitude and Grace were appearing for the first time, English historian William Camden wrote that names should be chosen with \"good and gracious significations\", as they might inspire the bearer to good actions. With the rise of the British Empire the English naming system and English surnames spread across large portions of the globe.\n\nBy the beginning of the 20th century, Smith and Taylor were two of the three most frequently occurring English surnames; both were occupational, though few smiths and tailors remained. When a correspondence between a name and an occupation did occur, it became worthy of note. In an 1888 issue of the \"Kentish Note Book\" magazine a list appeared with \"several carriers by the name of Carter; a hosier named Hosegood; an auctioneer named Sales; and a draper named Cuff\". Since then, a variety of terms for the concept of a close relationship between name and occupation have emerged. The term \"aptronym\" is thought to have been coined in the early 20th century by the American newspaper columnist Franklin P. Adams. Linguist Frank Nuessel coined \"aptonym\", without an \"r\", in 1992. Other synonyms include \"euonym\", \"Perfect Fit Last Name\" (PFLN), and \"namephreak\". In literary science a name that particularly suits a character is called a \"charactonym\". Notable authors who frequently used charactonyms as a stylistic technique include Charles Dickens (e.g., Mr. Gradgrind, the tyrannical schoolmaster) and William Shakespeare (e.g., the lost baby Perdita in \"The Winter's Tale\"). Unlike nominative determinism, the concept of aptronym and its synonyms do not say anything about causality, i.e. why the name has come to fit.\n\nBecause of the potentially humorous nature of aptronyms a number of newspapers have collected them. \"San Francisco Chronicle\" columnist Herb Caen reported irregularly on reader-submitted gems, including substitute teacher Mr. Fillin, piano teacher Patience Scales, and the Vatican's spokesman on the evils of rock 'n roll, Cardinal Rapsong. Similarly, the journalist Bob Levey on occasion listed examples sent in by readers of his column in \"The Washington Post\": a food industry consultant named Faith Popcorn, a lieutenant called Sergeant, and a tax accountant called Shelby Goldgrab. Dutch newspaper \"Het Parool\" had an irregularly featured column called \"Nomen est omen\" with Dutch examples. Individual name collectors have also published books of aptronyms. Onomastic scholar R.M. Rennick called for more verification of aptronyms appearing in newspaper columns and books. Lists of aptronyms in science, medicine, and law are more reliable as they tend to be drawn from easily verifiable sources.\n\nNominative determinism, literally \"name-driven outcome\", is the hypothesis that people tend to gravitate towards areas of work which reflect their names. The name fits because people, possibly subconsciously, made themselves fit. Nominative determinism differs from the concept of aptronyms in that it focuses on causality.\n\nThe term has its origin in the \"Feedback\" column of the British magazine \"New Scientist\" in 1994. A series of events raised the suspicion of its editor, John Hoyland, who wrote in the 5 November issue:\n\nFeedback editors John Hoyland and Mike Holderness subsequently adopted the term \"nominative determinism\" as suggested by reader C. R. Cavonius. The term first appeared in the 17 December issue. Even though the magazine tried to ban the topic numerous times over the decades since, readers kept sending in curious examples. These included the U.S. Navy spokesman put up to answer journalists' questions about the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, one Lieutenant Mike Kafka; authors of the book \"The Imperial Animal\" Lionel Tiger and Robin Fox; and the UK Association of Chief Police Officers' spokesman on knife crime, Alfred Hitchcock.\n\nAs used in \"New Scientist\" the term nominative determinism only applies to work. In contributions to other newspapers \"New Scientist\" writers have stuck to this definition, with the exception of editor Roger Highfield in a column in the \"Evening Standard\", in which he included \"key attributes of life\".\n\nPrior to 1994 other terms for the suspected psychological effect were used sporadically. \"Onomastic determinism\" was used as early as 1970 by Roberta Frank. German psychologist Wilhelm Stekel spoke of \"Die Verpflichtung des Namens\" (the obligation of the name) in 1911. Outside of science, \"cognomen syndrome\" was used by playwright Tom Stoppard in his 1972 play \"Jumpers\". In Ancient Rome the predictive power of a person's name was captured by the Latin proverb \"nomen est omen\", meaning the name is a sign. This saying is still in use today in English and other languages such as French, German, Italian, Dutch, and Slovenian.\n\n\"New Scientist\" coined the term \"nominative contradeterminism\" for people who move away from their name, creating a contradiction between name and occupation. Examples include Andrew Waterhouse, a professor of wine, would-be doctor Thomas Edward Kill, who subsequently changed his name to Jirgensohn, and the Archbishop of Manila, Cardinal Sin. The synonym \"inaptronym\" is also sometimes used.\n\nThe first scientists to discuss the concept that names had a determining effect were early 20th-century German psychologists. Wilhelm Stekel spoke of the \"obligation of the name\" in the context of compulsive behaviour and choice of occupation; Karl Abraham wrote that the determining power of names might be partially caused by inheriting a trait from an ancestor who was given a fitting name. He made the further inference that families with fitting names might then try to live up to their names in some way. In 1952 Carl Jung referred to Stekel's work in his theory of synchronicity (events without causal relationship that yet seem to be meaningfully related):\n\nJung listed striking instances among psychologists—including himself: \"Herr Freud (Joy) champions the pleasure principle, Herr Adler (Eagle) the will to power, Herr Jung (Young) the idea of rebirth ...\"\n\nIn 1975 psychologist Lawrence Casler called for empirical research into the relative frequencies of career-appropriate names to establish if there is an effect at work or whether we are being \"seduced by Lady Luck\". He proposed three possible explanations for nominative determinism: one's self-image and self-expectation being internally influenced by one's name; the name acting as a social stimulus, creating expectations in others that are then communicated to the individual; and genetics – attributes suited to a particular career being passed down the generations alongside the appropriate occupational surname.\n\nIn 2002 the researchers Pelham, Mirenberg, and Jones explored Casler's first explanation, arguing that people have a basic desire to feel good about themselves and behave according to that desire. These automatic positive associations would influence feelings about almost anything associated with the self. Given the \"mere ownership effect\", which states that people like things more if they own them, the researchers theorised that people would develop an affection for objects and concepts that are associated with the self, such as their name. They called this unconscious power \"implicit egotism\". Uri Simonsohn suggested that implicit egotism only applies to cases where people are nearly indifferent between options, and therefore it would not apply to major decisions such as career choices. Low-stakes decisions such as choosing a charity would show an effect. Raymond Smeets theorised that if implicit egotism stems from a positive evaluation of the self, then people with low self-esteem would not gravitate towards choices associated with the self, but possibly away from them. A lab experiment confirmed this.\n\nThose with fitting names give differing accounts of the effect of their name on their career choices. Igor Judge, former Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, said he has no recollection of anyone commenting on his destined profession when he was a child, adding \"I'm absolutely convinced in my case it is entirely coincidental and I can't think of any evidence in my life that suggests otherwise.\" James Counsell on the other hand, having chosen a career in law just like his father, his sibling, and two distant relatives, reported having been spurred on to join the bar from an early age and he cannot remember ever wanting to do anything else. Sue Yoo, an American lawyer, said that when she was younger people urged her to become a lawyer because of her name, which she thinks may have helped her decision. Weather reporter Storm Field was not sure about the influence of his name; his father, also a weather reporter, was his driving force. Psychology professor Lewis Lipsitt, a lifelong collector of aptronyms, was lecturing about nominative determinism in class when a student pointed out that Lipsitt himself was subject to the effect since he studied babies' sucking behaviour. Lipsitt said \"That had never occurred to me.\" Church of England vicar Reverend Michael Vickers, who denied being a Vickers had anything to do with him becoming a vicar, suggesting instead that in some cases \"perhaps people are actually escaping from their name, rather than moving towards their job\".\n\nWhile reports by owners of fitting names are of interest, some scientists have questioned their value in deciding whether nominative determinism is a real effect. Instead, they argue that the claim that a name affects life decisions is an extraordinary one that requires extraordinary evidence. To select only those cases that seem to give evidence for nominative determinism is to ignore those that do not. Analysis of large numbers of names is therefore needed. In 2002 Pelham, Mirenberg, and Jones analysed various databases containing first names, surnames, occupations, cities and states. In one study they concluded that people named Dennis gravitate towards dentistry. They did this by retrieving the number of dentists called Dennis (482) from a database of US dentists. They then used the 1990 Census to find out which male first name was the next most popular after Dennis: Walter. The likelihood of a US male being called Dennis was 0.415% and the likelihood of a US male being called Walter was 0.416%. The researchers then retrieved the number of dentists called Walter (257). Comparing the relative frequencies of Dennis and Walter led them to their conclusion that the name Dennis is over-represented in dentistry. However, in 2011, Uri Simonsohn published a paper in which he criticized Pelham \"et al.\" for not considering confounding factors and reported on how the popularity of Dennis and Walter as baby names has varied over the decades. Given Walter was a relatively old-fashioned name it was far more likely for Pelham \"et al.\" to find people named Dennis to have any job, not just that of dentist, and people named Walter to be retired. Simonsohn did indeed find a disproportionally high number of Dennis lawyers compared to Walter lawyers.\n\nAware of Simonsohn's critical analyses of their earlier methods, Pelham and Mauricio published a new study in 2015, describing how they now controlled for gender, ethnicity, and education confounds. In one study they looked at census data and concluded that men disproportionately worked in eleven occupations whose titles matched their surnames, for example, baker, carpenter, and farmer.\n\nIn 2009 Michalos reported the results of an analysis of the occurrences of people with the surname Counsell registered as independent barristers in England and Wales versus those with the name in England and Wales as whole. Given the low frequency of the name in England and Wales as a whole he expected to find no one registered, but three barristers named Counsell were found.\n\nIn 2015 researchers Limb, Limb, Limb and Limb published a paper on their study into the effect of surnames on medical specialisation. They looked at 313,445 entries in the medical register from the General Medical Council, and identified surnames that were apt for the speciality, for example, Limb for an orthopaedic surgeon, and Doctor for medicine in general. They found that the frequency of names relevant to medicine and to subspecialties was much greater than expected by chance. Specialties that had the largest proportion of names specifically relevant to that specialty were those for which the English language has provided a wide range of alternative terms for the same anatomical parts (or functions thereof). Specifically, these were genitourinary medicine (e.g., Hardwick and Woodcock) and urology (e.g., Burns, Cox, Ball). Neurologists had names relevant to medicine in general, but far fewer had names directly relevant to their specialty (1 in every 302). Limb, Limb, Limb and Limb did not report on looking for any confounding variables. In 2010 Abel came to a similar conclusion. In one study he compared doctors and lawyers whose first or last names began with three-letter combinations representative of their professions, for example, \"doc\", \"law\", and likewise found a significant relationship between name and profession. Abel also found that the initial letters of physicians' last names were significantly related to their subspecialty. For example, Raymonds were more likely to be radiologists than dermatologists. Two separate studies by Krajick and Neimi in 2005, both analysing large samples of names of scientists, showed 1.35% of geologists having names referring to their field, and in political science, 1.26%.\n\nAs for Casler's third possible explanation for nominative determinism, genetics, researchers Voracek, Rieder, Stieger, and Swami found some evidence for it in 2015. They reported that today's Smiths still tend to have the physical capabilities of their ancestors who were smiths. People called Smith reported above-average aptitude for strength-related activities. A similar aptitude for dexterity-related activities among people with the surname Tailor, or equivalent spellings thereof, was found, but it was not statistically significant. In the researchers' view a genetic-social hypothesis appears more viable than the hypothesis of implicit egotism effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "9579546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9579546", "title": "Parity of esteem", "text": "Parity of esteem\n\nParity of esteem is a concept which can be applied in a variety of contexts.\n\nParity of esteem can be used to establish a theory to overcome inter-communal conflict. Promoters of the theory argue that \"parity of esteem\" \"offers a language for negotiation of a post-conflict equilibrium\". This negotiation begins with the communities recognising the stalemate of their position. Rather than continue trying to out-do each other, the communities should attempt to negotiate a peaceful coexistence in a shared physical space despite their cultural differences.\n\n\"Parity of esteem\" can be described as a post-Enlightenment theory as it differs drastically from classical liberal or Marxist rationalism and is contrary to 20th-century ideas of \"self-determination\" or the 19th-century idea of the nation-state. Many of these anticipated a \"withering away of nationalism\" once minorities were brought within the nation-state. These concepts are today the most dominant within contemporary political theory. As Ernest Gellner writes, \"the idea that political boundaries must be congruent with ethnic ones, that rulers must not be ethnically distinguishable from the ruled now has a salience and authority which it has never possessed in the previous history of mankind\". Where Enlightenment theories addressed issues of inter-communal conflict, it did so either by promoting \"non-sectarianism\" against \"tribalism\" (liberalism) or emphasising \"class politics\" against \"bourgeois nationalism\" (Marxism). Neither of these approaches recognised the traditions of belligerents in inter-communal conflicts. \"Parity of esteem\" on the other hand can accepts various nationalist traditions within one state.\n\nInterest in \"parity of esteem\" approaches emerged during the mid-1980s and accelerated following the fall of the Berlin Wall and the Yugoslav wars of the early 1990s. It was recognised that while there were 184 independent states, there were more than 600 living language groups and more than 5,000 ethnic groups. Simply put, without enough geo-political space, slogans such as the Serb nationalist claim for \"All Serbs in One State\" were simply unworkable. Since the end of the 1990s, \"Parity of esteem\" is a core concept to the Northern Ireland peace process.\n\n\"Parity of Esteem for Mental Health\" is an issue for many healthcare systems because of the pervasive stigma of mental illness. People with diagnosed mental illness die on average around 20 years earlier than those without such a diagnosis, some because of suicide, but mostly because of poorly treated physical illness. Mental illness has been assessed as constituting around a quarter of the disease burden in developed countries. There is much bigger treatment gap for mental illness than for physical illness. \n\nIn the USA legislation was enacted in 2006 which attempted to achieve equality in health insurance coverage between surgical treatment and mental health treatments. \n\nIn the UK Norman Lamb campaigned for mental health to be given parity of esteem with physical health. The Royal College of Psychiatrists proposed that parity of esteem should be defined as \"Valuing mental health equally with physical health\". In practice most arguments have been centred on levels of funding. Expenditure on mental health services provided by NHS trusts fell by around 8.25% between 2010 and 2015. According to Dr Phil Moore chair of the Mental Health Commissioners Network at NHS Clinical Commissioners discussions in 2016 had degenerated into a funding dispute. He wanted to see discussions about the degree to which mental health is embedded into other services, including the integration of psychological services with general practice\n\n"}
{"id": "34741838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34741838", "title": "Perennial calendar", "text": "Perennial calendar\n\nA perennial calendar is a calendar that applies to any year, keeping the same dates, weekdays and other features.\n\nPerennial calendar systems differ from most widely used calendars which are annual calendars. Annual calendars include features particular to the year represented, and expire at the year's end. A perennial calendar differs also from a perpetual calendar, which is a tool or reference to compute the weekdays of dates for any given year, or for representing a wide range of annual calendars.\n\nFor example, most representations of the Gregorian calendar year include weekdays and are therefore annual calendars, because the weekdays of its dates vary from year to year. For this reason, proposals to perennialize the Gregorian calendar typically introduce one or another scheme for fixing its dates on the same weekdays every year.\n\nThe term \"perennial calendar\" appeared as early as 1824, in the title of\nThomas Ignatius Maria Forster's \"Perennial calendar and companion to the almanack.\" \nIn that work he compiled \"the events of every day in the year, as \nconnected with history, chronology, botany, natural history, astronomy, \npopular customes and antiquities, with useful rules of health, \nobservations on the weather, explanations of the feasts and festivals\nof the church and other miscellaneous useful information.\" The data listed there for each date in the calendar apply in every year, and supplement data to be found in annual almanacs. Often printed in perennial-calendar format also are book blanks for diaries, ledgers and logs, for use in any year. Entries on the blank pages of these books are organized by calendar dates, without reference to weekdays or year numbers.\n\nA goal of modern calendar reform has been to achieve universal acceptance of a \nperennial calendar, with dates fixed always on the same weekdays, so the same calendar table serves year after year. \nAdvantages claimed for a perennial over an annualized calendar like the Gregorian are simplicity\nand regularity. Scheduling is simplified for institutions and industries \nwith extended production cycles. School terms and breaks, for example, can fall annually\non the same dates. Month-based ordinal dating (\"Fourth Thursday in November\",\n\"Last Monday in May\") will be obsolete. Two methods favored for perennializing the calendar are the introduction of so-called \"blank days,\" and of a periodic \"leap week.\"\n\nBlank-day calendars remove a day or two (the latter for leap years) from the weekday cycle, resulting in a year length of 364 weekdays. Since this number is \nevenly divisible by 7, every year can begin on the same weekday. In the twelve-month plan of The World Calendar, for example, the Gregorian year-end date of December 31 is sequestered from the cycle of the week and \ncelebrated as \"Worldsday.\" December 30 falls on a Saturday, Worldsday follows next, and then January 1 begins every new year on a Sunday. The extra day in leap year is treated similarly. Blank-day calendars with thirteen months have also been developed. Among them are: The Georgian calendar, by Hirossa Ap-Iccim (=Rev. Hugh Jones) (1745);\nThe Positivist calendar, by Auguste Comte (1849); and the International Fixed Calendar, \nby Moses B. Cotsworth (1902), and championed by George Eastman. Blank-day reform proposals face a religious objection, however. Sabbatarians, who are obliged to regard every seventh day as a day of rest and worship, must observe their holy day on a different weekday each year.\n\nLeap week calendar plans often restrict common years to 364 days, or \n52 weeks, and expand leap years to 371 days, or 53 weeks. The added week \nmay extend an existing month, or it may stand alone as an inserted seven-day \nmonth.\n\nThe leap-week calendar may have been conceived originally by Rev. George M. Searle (1839-1918), around 1905. In 1930, James A. Colligan, S.J. proposed a thirteen-month reform, the Pax Calendar. By 1955, Cecil L. Woods proposed the twelve-month Jubilee Calendar which inserts an extra week called \"Jubilee\" before\nJanuary in specified years.\nThe Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar (2003) inserts an extra year-end month of seven \ndays called \"Xtra,\" and the Symmetry454 calendar (circa 2004) lengthens the month of December by one week on leap years.\n\nThe Christian celebration of Easter is historically calculated to occur on the first Sunday after the first ecclesiastical full moon falling on or after 21 March. In leap-week calendars, March 21 is less likely to match astronomical spring equinox than in the Gregorian calendar. The Symmetry454 calendar proposes Sunday, April 7 as a permanently fixed date for Easter, based on the median date of the Sunday after the day of the astronomical lunar opposition that is on or after the day of the astronomical northward equinox, calculated for the meridian of Jerusalem. In 1963 the Second Ecumenical Council of the Vatican declared:\n\nIn the Pax Calendar, the extra week is added in every year having its last number, or its last \ntwo numbers, divisible by 6, and in every year ending with the number 99, \nand every centennial year not divisible by 400. The Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar's leap week occurs every year that either begins or ends in a Thursday on the corresponding Gregorian calendar. The Symmetry454 calendar's leap week formula was chosen over others based on 10 criteria, including smoothest distribution of weeks, minimal \"jitter\" and predicted accuracy of 4-5 millennia.\n\nObjections to leap weeks include the inconvenience of a periodic extra week\nfor billing and payment cycles, and for dividing the leap year into \nhalves and quarters. Another objection is that anniversaries, such as birthdays, are more likely on average to occur on a leap week than a leap day.\n\nBesides blank-day and leap-week reforms only a few other options\nfor achieving a perennial calendar have been suggested. The Long-Sabbath Calendar,\nby Rick McCarty (1996), extends to thirty-six hours the last Saturday of the year and \nthe subsequent first Sunday of the new year. Seventy-two hours are thereby\ncovered with two weekdays instead of the usual three, which shortens the year \nto 364 calendar days without interrupting the weekday cycle. Another option would trim every year to exactly 364 days, allowing the calendar \nmonths to drift relative to the seasons. January would move from mid-winter \nto mid-summer, in the northern hemisphere, after approximately 150 \nyears. The calendar year can be reckoned to drift though all the seasons once every 294 calendar years equal to 293 years of 365.2423208... days.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "249914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249914", "title": "Phonotactics", "text": "Phonotactics\n\nPhonotactics (from Ancient Greek \"phōnḗ\" \"voice, sound\" and \"tacticós\" \"having to do with arranging\") is a branch of phonology that deals with restrictions in a language on the permissible combinations of phonemes. Phonotactics defines permissible syllable structure, consonant clusters and vowel sequences by means of \"phonotactic constraints\".\n\nPhonotactic constraints are highly language specific. For example, in Japanese, consonant clusters like do not occur. Similarly, the clusters and are not permitted at the beginning of a word in Modern English but are in German and Dutch (in which the latter appears as ) and were permitted in Old and Middle English. In contrast, in some Slavic languages /l/ and /r/ are used alongside vowels as syllable nuclei.\n\nSyllables have the following internal segmental structure:\n\nBoth onset and coda may be empty, forming a vowel-only syllable, or alternatively, the nucleus can be occupied by a syllabic consonant. Phonotactics is known to affect second language vocabulary acquisition.\n\nThe English syllable (and word) \"twelfths\" is divided into the onset , the nucleus and the coda ; thus, it can be described as CCVCCCC (C = consonant, V = vowel). On this basis it is possible to form rules for which representations of phoneme classes may fill the cluster. For instance, English allows at most three consonants in an onset, but among native words under standard accents (and excluding a few obscure learned words such as \"sphragistics\"), phonemes in a three-consonantal onset are limited to the following scheme:\n\nThis constraint can be observed in the pronunciation of the word \"blue\": originally, the vowel of \"blue was identical to the vowel of \"cue, approximately . In most dialects of English, shifted to . Theoretically, this would produce **. The cluster , however, infringes the constraint for three-consonantal onsets in English. Therefore, the pronunciation has been reduced to by elision of the in what is known as yod-dropping.\n\nNot all languages have this constraint: compare Spanish pliegue\" or French pluie\" .\n\nConstraints on English phonotactics include:\n\n\nSegments of a syllable are universally distributed following what is called the Sonority Sequencing Principle (SSP), which states that, in any syllable, the nucleus has maximal sonority and that sonority decreases as you move away from the nucleus. Sonority is a measure of the amplitude of a speech sound. The particular ranking of each speech sound by sonority, called the sonority hierarchy, is language-specific, but, in its broad lines, hardly varies from a language to another, which means all languages form their syllables in approximately the same way with regards to sonority.\n\nTo illustrate the SSP, the voiceless alveolar fricative is lower on the sonority hierarchy than the alveolar lateral approximant , so the combination is permitted in onsets and is permitted in codas, but is not allowed in onsets and is not allowed in codas. Hence \"slips\" and \"pulse\" are possible English words while \"*lsips\" and \"*pusl\" are not.\n\nThe SSP expresses a very strong cross-linguistic tendency, however, it does not account for the patterns of all complex syllable margins. It may be violated in two ways: the first occurs when two segments in a margin have the same sonority, which is known as a \"sonority plateau\". Such margins are found in a few languages, including English, as in the words \"sphinx\" and \"fact\".\n\nThe second instance of violation of the SSP is when a peripheral segment of a margin has a higher sonority than a segment closer to the nucleus. These margins are known as reversals and occur in some languages including English (\"steal\" , \"bets\" ) or French (\"dextre\" , \"strict\" ).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14062610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14062610", "title": "Radio latino", "text": "Radio latino\n\nA radio latino is a measuring instrument used in surveying and military engineering starting in the 16th century. It gets its name from the inventor, Latino Orsini. The radio latino can be considered a kind of geometric square.\n\nIt was a general purpose instrument that could be used for a variety of angular measurements as well as depth and inside dimension measures.\n\nThe slider (blue in the adjacent diagram) could move along the central rod, causing the deltoid formed by four other rods to change shape symmetrically. The end points of the rods had sights on them, allowing various sight lines to be defined. The central rod was graduated with various scales. These scales allowed the angles between the end rods (represented by the red lines in the diagram) to be determined as well as the angle with its vertex at one end of the main rod and sides (represented by the green lines in the diagram) through the outer joints of the rods.\n\nWith different graduations, one could determine or lay out:\n\nWhen folded, the radio latino would resemble a sword and was stored in a sheath or scabbard.\n\nThe radio latino was usually constructed of brass. The central, main rod was graduated with multiple scales. The free end of the main rod had a handle attached. Within the handle, a small compass was mounted.\n\nThe two end-most side rods were shorter than the two attached to the slider. This permitted the end rods to be set to any angle up to 180°. The slider could move along the main rod and was used as an index for reading the engraved scales.\n\nEach hinged vertex had a sighting vane. This permitted the instrument to be used to measure or lay out angles or other dimensions visually.\n\n"}
{"id": "47881259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47881259", "title": "Raymond E. Feist bibliography", "text": "Raymond E. Feist bibliography\n\nThis is complete bibliography of the works by American fantasy fiction author Raymond E. Feist.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3618556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3618556", "title": "Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media", "text": "Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media\n\nRoy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media (RRCHNM), formerly the Center for History and New Media (CHNM) is a research institution in the George Mason University in Fairfax County, Virginia specializing in history and information technology. It was established by Roy Rosenzweig in 1994 to research and use digital media and information technology in historical research, education, digital tools and resources, digital preservation, and outreach.\n\nFollowing the September 11, 2001 attacks, the Center for History and New Media in partnership with the American Social History Project at the City University of New York organized the September 11 Digital Archive with funding from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. With the September 11 Digital Archive, CHNM and ASHP utilized electronic media to collect, preserve, and present the past, with a digital repository of material including more than 150,000 first-hand accounts, emails, images, and other digital materials. This project has inspired a new project, the Hurricane Digital Memory Bank, which is collecting the stories and digital artefacts related to the Hurricane Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. CHNM continues to explore methods, tools, and technologies for archiving and preserving information, data, and documents digitally.\n\nThe Center for History and New Media worked in partnership with the American Social History Project (ASHP) at the City University of New York, to develop an online resource directed at American History teachers, along with online resources about the French Revolution. More recent projects have focused on developing online educational resources about World History, and a project on historical thinking, in partnership with the Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of American History. CHNM is also involved with educational outreach with teachers in Virginia school districts.\n\nCHNM has also developed a number of online databases and other resources for historians and history teachers, including a listing of 1,200 history departments worldwide, a practical guide to Digital History, a collection of essays on history and new media. Another online database is Making the History of 1989, which chronicles the fall of communism in Eastern Europe. Created in collaboration with the German Historical Institute and the National Endowment for the Humanities, the 1989 Project is powered by CHNM's Omeka software, and includes resources for teachers and students, ranging from lesson plans to an archive of primary source materials.\n\nCHNM collaborated with the Jewish Women's Archive on Katrina's Jewish Voices, a virtual archive of stories, images, and reflections about the New Orleans and Gulf Coast Jewish communities before and after Hurricane Katrina.\n\nCHNM is responsible for the development of two notable open source software projects: Zotero and Omeka. Zotero is reference management software which is used by academics to read and cite the academic literature. Omeka is a content management system that uses the Dublin Core metadata standard to build digital collections and publish digital exhibits. Both projects are free, and reflect CHNM's dedication to democratizing the practice of history.\n\nThe Center for History and New Media also distributes a set of free additional digital tools for historians and teachers, including Web Scrapbook, Survey Builder, Scribe (a note taking application designed with historians in mind), Poll Builder, H-Bot (an automated historical fact finder), and Syllabus Finder, which allows you to find and compare syllabi from thousands of universities and colleges on any topic, using the Google search engine.\n\nIn 2017, with financial support of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, CHNM released Tropy, a free and open-source desktop knowledge organization application to manage and describe photographs of research materials.\n\nProjects like Zotero provide tools for historians to research and analyze the past. But will digital media change the nature of scholarly argument, communication, and publication? In order to encourage experimentation in this arena, American Quarterly in collaboration with the American Studies Crossroads Project and CHNM organized an experiment in hypertext publishing. Four essays, covering such diverse topics as photos, as legal evidence, the Spanish–American War in film, early comic strips, and Arnold Schwarzenegger, offer contrasting approaches to using digital media for scholarly presentations.\n\nImaging the French Revolution is another experiment in digital scholarship. In a series of essays, seven scholars analyze forty-two images of crowds and crowd violence in the French Revolution. Offering the most relevant examples and comments from an on-line forum, those same scholars consider issues of interpretation, methodology, and the impact of digital media on scholarship.\n\nFinally, Interpreting the Declaration of Independence by Translation is a roundtable of historians brought together to discuss the translation and reception of the Declaration of Independence in Japan, Mexico, Russia, China, Poland, Italy, Germany, Spain, and Israel. In addition to these reflections, the site includes actual translations of the Declaration into several different languages and \"re-translations\" back into English to illustrate the effects of translation on how a key historical document has been understood.\n\nCHNM has also developed some projects with an explicit focus on broad, public audiences. Gulag: Many Days, Many Lives is a web-based exhibit funded by NEH and being developed in collaboration with the Gulag Museum in Perm, Russia, will provide a multifaceted consideration of the human struggle for survival in the Gulag, the brutal and often lethal Soviet system of forced labor concentration camps. History News Network features articles, placing current events in historical perspective, written by historians of all political persuasions.\n\nOn April 15, 2011, the Center for History and New Media became the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media, in memory of its founder.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37115080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37115080", "title": "Sanganakallu", "text": "Sanganakallu\n\nSanganakallu () is an ancient archaeological site from the Neolithic period (circa 3000 BC). It is approximately 8 km from Bellary in Karnataka. It is a group of hills south of a horseshoe shaped valley, with Kupgal to the north. It is one of the earliest settlements in South India, spread over 1,000 acres. There is a layer of red-brown fossilized soil spread over Sanganakallu and Kupgal that can be dated back to 9000 BC. The site is considered to be a neolithic factory site due to the surface excavation revealing large numbers of pottery, stone axes, and other stone tools. The site was first majorly excavated in 1946, by Bendapudi Subbarao, on Sannarasamma hill. Subbarao divided their culture into 3 phases:\nSanganakallu was excavated again in 1964.\n\nThe earliest tools excavated were hundreds of patinated flakes made of basalt, and quartz flakes. In the later Mesolithic phase is when tool making became more abundant. Stone axes, hammer stones, chisels, picks, slick-stones, and sling stones were excavated. The axes were found in many different shapes. There were oval shaped, triangular shaped, or rectangular shaped axes and some were axes were rounded and some were thin. The sheer number of microliths is the reason Sanganakallu is considered a factory site.\n\nThe first pottery started showing up in Mesolithic phase. The pottery was usually dull brown or black, and hand-made out of course clay. Pale-gray pots made of fine clay mixed with lime and mica were also excavated. The pottery from the later Neolithic period were more fine, thin, and polished. They were all burnt and wheel turned. The ornamental pottery was decorated in a finger groove pattern and a few shards were found painted purple. A few pots were perforated and the significance of that is not yet known.\n\nIn this excavation, a one room Neolithic circular house was excavated. The wall was made with bamboo and clay and the floor was covered in potholes. There was a hearth in the center of the house, and there is evidence of it being burned. Other than the house structure, a few terracotta figurines in the shape of birds or bulls were also found as well as more stone tools and pottery. Animal remains were also collected, the majority of which were cow bones.\n\nThe people who settled at Sanganakallu were early agriculturists, who cultivated small millets and pulses. They kept sheep, cattle, and had separate areas for dumping dung (ash mounds).\n\n"}
{"id": "31896477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31896477", "title": "Serge Hutin", "text": "Serge Hutin\n\nSerge Hutin (1927–1997) born in France, was an author on books on esoterica and the occult.\n\nHutin was a writer of many books on the occult and esoteric, he wrote about Freemasonry, secret societies, Rosicrucianism, alchemy and astrology and many other occult topics. Hutin wrote about the Kabbalah and claimed that Isaac Newton was a Christian Kabbalist.\n\nHutin is most well known in UFO circles for his ancient astronaut book called \"Alien Races and Fantastic Civilizations\" (1975) in which he claimed ancient civilizations across the earth were colonial outposts built by extraterrestrials. The book was similar to books by other authors of the time such as Jacques Bergier and Jean Sendy. Hutin also wrote about Atlantis and gave a lot of credit to Plato for writing about it.\n\nHutin published over 40 books (The following are ones which have been translated into English):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "231202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231202", "title": "Sociotechnical system", "text": "Sociotechnical system\n\nSociotechnical systems (STS) in organizational development is an approach to complex organizational work design that recognizes the interaction between people and technology in workplaces. The term also refers to the interaction between society's complex infrastructures and human behaviour. In this sense, society itself, and most of its substructures, are complex sociotechnical systems. The term sociotechnical systems was coined by Eric Trist, Ken Bamforth and Fred Emery, in the World War II era, based on their work with workers in English coal mines at the Tavistock Institute in London. \n\nSociotechnical systems pertains to theory regarding the social aspects of people and society and technical aspects of organizational structure and processes. Here, technical does not necessarily imply material technology. The focus is on procedures and related knowledge, i.e. it refers to the ancient Greek term \"techne\". \"Technical\" is a term used to refer to structure and a broader sense of technicalities. Sociotechnical refers to the interrelatedness of \"social\" and \"technical\" aspects of an organization or the society as a whole. Sociotechnical theory therefore is about \"joint optimization\", with a shared emphasis on achievement of both excellence in technical performance and quality in people's work lives. Sociotechnical theory, as distinct from sociotechnical systems, proposes a number of different ways of achieving joint optimisation. They are usually based on designing different kinds of organisation, ones in which the relationships between socio and technical elements lead to the emergence of productivity and wellbeing.\n\nSociotechnical refers to the interrelatedness of \"social\" and \"technical\" aspects of an organization. Sociotechnical theory is founded on two main principles:\n\nTherefore, sociotechnical theory is about \"joint optimization\", that is, designing the social system and technical system in tandem so that they work smoothly together. Sociotechnical theory, as distinct from sociotechnical systems, proposes a number of different ways of achieving joint optimization. They are usually based on designing different kinds of organization, ones in which the relationships between socio and technical elements lead to the emergence of productivity and wellbeing, rather than the all too often case of new technology failing to meet the expectations of designers and users alike.\n\nThe scientific literature shows terms like \"sociotechnical\" all one word, or \"socio-technical\" with a hyphen, \"sociotechnical theory\", \"sociotechnical system\" and \"sociotechnical systems theory\". All of these terms appear ubiquitously but their actual meanings often remain unclear. The key term \"sociotechnical\" is something of a buzzword and its varied usage can be unpicked. What can be said about it, though, is that it is most often used to simply, and quite correctly, describe any kind of organization that is composed of people and technology. But, predictably, there is more to it than that.\n\nSome of the central principles of sociotechnical theory were elaborated in a seminal paper by Eric Trist and Ken Bamforth in 1951. This is an interesting case study which, like most of the work in sociotechnical theory, is focused on a form of 'production system' expressive of the era and the contemporary technological systems it contained. The study was based on the paradoxical observation that despite improved technology, productivity was falling, and that despite better pay and amenities, absenteeism was increasing. This particular rational organisation had become irrational. The cause of the problem was hypothesized to be the adoption of a new form of production technology which had created the need for a bureaucratic form of organization (rather like classic command-and-control). In this specific example, technology brought with it a retrograde step in organizational design terms. The analysis that followed introduced the terms \"socio\" and \"technical\" and elaborated on many of the core principles that sociotechnical theory subsequently became.\n\nSociotechnical theory was pioneering for its shift in emphasis, a shift towards considering teams or groups as the primary unit of analysis and not the individual. Sociotechnical theory pays particular attention to internal supervision and leadership at the level of the \"group\" and refers to it as \"responsible autonomy\". The overriding point seems to be that having the simple ability of individual team members being able to perform their function is not the only predictor of group effectiveness. There are a range of issues in team cohesion research, for example, that are answered by having the regulation and leadership internal to a group or team.\n\nThese, and other factors, play an integral and parallel role in ensuring successful teamwork which sociotechnical theory exploits.\nThe idea of semi-autonomous groups conveys a number of further advantages. Not least among these, especially in hazardous environments, is the often felt need on the part of people in the organisation for a role in a small primary group. It is argued that such a need arises in cases where the means for effective communication are often somewhat limited. As Carvalho states, this is because \"...operators use verbal exchanges to produce continuous, redundant and recursive interactions to successfully construct and maintain individual and mutual awareness...\". The immediacy and proximity of trusted team members makes it possible for this to occur. The coevolution of technology and organizations brings with it an expanding array of new possibilities for novel interaction. Responsible autonomy could become more distributed along with the team(s) themselves.\n\nThe key to responsible autonomy seems to be to design an organization possessing the characteristics of small groups whilst preventing the \"silo-thinking\" and \"stovepipe\" neologisms of contemporary management theory. In order to preserve \"...intact the loyalties on which the small group [depend]...the system as a whole [needs to contain] its bad in a way that [does] not destroy its good\". In practice, this requires groups to be responsible for their own internal regulation and supervision, with the primary task of relating the group to the wider system falling explicitly to a group leader. This principle, therefore, describes a strategy for removing more traditional command hierarchies.\n\nCarvajal states that \"the rate at which uncertainty overwhelms an organisation is related more to its internal structure than to the amount of environmental uncertainty\". Sitter in 1997 offered two solutions for organisations confronted, like the military, with an environment of increased (and increasing) complexity:\n\"The first option is to restore the fit with the external complexity by an increasing internal complexity. ...This usually means the creation of more staff functions or the enlargement of staff-functions and/or the investment in vertical information systems\". Vertical information systems are often confused for \"network enabled capability\" systems (NEC) but an important distinction needs to be made, which Sitter et al. propose as their second option:\n\"...the organisation tries to deal with the external complexity by 'reducing' the internal control and coordination needs. ...This option might be called the strategy of 'simple organisations and complex jobs'\". This all contributes to a number of unique advantages.\nFirstly is the issue of \"human redundancy\" in which \"groups of this kind were free to set their own targets, so that aspiration levels with respect to production could be adjusted to the age and stamina of the individuals concerned\". Human redundancy speaks towards the flexibility, ubiquity and pervasiveness of resources within NEC.\n\nThe second issue is that of complexity. Complexity lies at the heart of many organisational contexts (there are numerous organizational paradigms that struggle to cope with it). Trist and Bamforth (1951) could have been writing about these with the following passage: \"A very large variety of unfavourable and changing environmental conditions is encountered ... many of which are impossible to predict. Others, though predictable, are impossible to alter.\"\n\nMany type of organisations are clearly motivated by the appealing \"industrial age\", rational principles of \"factory production\", a particular approach to dealing with complexity: \"In the factory a comparatively high degree of control can be exercised over the complex and moving \"figure\" of a production sequence, since it is possible to maintain the \"ground\" in a comparatively passive and constant state\". On the other hand, many activities are constantly faced with the possibility of \"untoward activity in the 'ground'\" of the 'figure-ground' relationship\" The central problem, one that appears to be at the nub of many problems that \"classic\" organisations have with complexity, is that \"The instability of the 'ground' limits the applicability ... of methods derived from the factory\".\n\nIn Classic organisations, problems with the moving \"figure\" and moving \"ground\" often become magnified through a much larger social space, one in which there is a far greater extent of hierarchical task interdependence. For this reason, the semi-autonomous group, and its ability to make a much more fine grained response to the \"ground\" situation, can be regarded as \"agile\". Added to which, local problems that do arise need not propagate throughout the entire system (to affect the workload and quality of work of many others) because a complex organization doing simple tasks has been replaced by a simpler organization doing more complex tasks. The agility and internal regulation of the group allows problems to be solved locally without propagation through a larger social space, thus increasing tempo.\n\nAnother concept in sociotechnical theory is the \"whole task\". A whole task \"has the advantage of placing responsibility for the ... task squarely on the shoulders of a single, small, face-to-face group which experiences the entire cycle of operations within the compass of its membership.\" The Sociotechnical embodiment of this principle is the notion of minimal critical specification. This principle states that, \"While it may be necessary to be quite precise about what has to be done, it is rarely necessary to be precise about how it is done\". This is no more illustrated by the antithetical example of \"working to rule\" and the virtual collapse of any system that is subject to the intentional withdrawal of human adaptation to situations and contexts.\n\nThe key factor in minimally critically specifying tasks is the responsible autonomy of the group to decide, based on local conditions, how best to undertake the task in a flexible adaptive manner. This principle is isomorphic with ideas like effects-based operations (EBO). EBO asks the question of what goal is it that we want to achieve, what objective is it that we need to reach rather than what tasks have to be undertaken, when and how. The EBO concept enables the managers to \"...manipulate and decompose high level effects. They must then assign lesser effects as objectives for subordinates to achieve. The intention is that subordinates' actions will cumulatively achieve the overall effects desired\". In other words, the focus shifts from being a scriptwriter for tasks to instead being a designer of behaviours. In some cases, this can make the task of the manager significantly less arduous.\n\nEffects-based operations and the notion of a \"whole task\", combined with adaptability and responsible autonomy, have additional advantages for those at work in the organization. This is because \"for each participant the task has total significance and dynamic closure\" as well as the requirement to deploy a multiplicity of skills and to have the responsible autonomy in order to select when and how to do so. This is clearly hinting at a relaxation of the myriad of control mechanisms found in more classically designed organizations.\n\nGreater interdependence (through diffuse processes such as globalisation) also bring with them an issue of size, in which \"the scale of a task transcends the limits of simple spatio-temporal structure. By this is meant conditions under which those concerned can complete a job in one place at one time, i.e., the situation of the face-to-face, or singular group\". In other words, in classic organisations the \"wholeness\" of a task is often diminished by multiple group integration and spatiotemporal disintegration. The group based form of organization design proposed by sociotechnical theory combined with new technological possibilities (such as the internet) provide a response to this often forgotten issue, one that contributes significantly to joint optimisation.\n\nA sociotechnical system is the term usually given to any instantiation of socio and technical elements engaged in goal directed behaviour. Sociotechnical systems are a particular expression of sociotechnical theory, although they are not necessarily one and the same thing. Sociotechnical systems theory is a mixture of sociotechnical theory, joint optimisation and so forth and general systems theory. The term sociotechnical system recognises that organizations have boundaries and that transactions occur within the system (and its sub-systems) and between the wider context and dynamics of the environment. It is an extension of Sociotechnical Theory which provides a richer descriptive and conceptual language for describing, analysing and designing organisations. A Sociotechnical System, therefore, often describes a 'thing' (an interlinked, systems based mixture of people, technology and their environment) .\n\nAutonomous work teams also called self-managed teams, are an alternative to traditional assembly line methods. Rather than having a large number of employees each do a small operation to assemble a product, the employees are organized into small teams, each of which is responsible for assembling an entire product. These teams are self-managed, and are independent of one another.\n\nJob enrichment in organizational development, human resources management, and organizational behavior, is the process of giving the employee a wider and higher level scope of responsibility with increased decision-making authority. This is the opposite of job enlargement, which simply would not involve greater authority. Instead, it will only have an increased number of duties.\n\nJob enlargement means increasing the scope of a job through extending the range of its job duties and responsibilities. This contradicts the principles of specialisation and the division of labour whereby work is divided into small units, each of which is performed repetitively by an individual worker. Some motivational theories suggest that the boredom and alienation caused by the division of labour can actually cause efficiency to fall.\n\nJob rotation is an approach to management development, where an individual is moved through a schedule of assignments designed to give him or her a breadth of exposure to the entire operation. Job rotation is also practiced to allow qualified employees to gain more insights into the processes of a company and to increase job satisfaction through job variation. The term job rotation can also mean the scheduled exchange of persons in offices, especially in public offices, prior to the end of incumbency or the legislative period. This has been practiced by the German green party for some time but has been discontinued\n\nMotivation in psychology refers to the initiation, direction, intensity and persistence of behavior. Motivation is a temporal and dynamic state that should not be confused with personality or emotion. Motivation is having the desire and willingness to do something. A motivated person can be reaching for a long-term goal such as becoming a professional writer or a more short-term goal like learning how to spell a particular word. Personality invariably refers to more or less permanent characteristics of an individual's state of being (e.g., shy, extrovert, conscientious). As opposed to motivation, emotion refers to temporal states that do not immediately link to behavior (e.g., anger, grief, happiness).\n\nProcess improvement in organizational development is a series of actions taken to identify, analyze and improve existing processes within an organization to meet new goals and objectives. These actions often follow a specific methodology or strategy to create successful results.\n\nTask analysis is the analysis of how a task is accomplished, including a detailed description of both manual and mental activities, task and element durations, task frequency, task allocation, task complexity, environmental conditions, necessary clothing and equipment, and any other unique factors involved in or required for one or more people to perform a given task. This information can then be used for many purposes, such as personnel selection and training, tool or equipment design, procedure design (e.g., design of checklists or decision support systems) and automation.\n\nJob design or work design in organizational development is the application of sociotechnical systems principles and techniques to the humanization of work, for example, through job enrichment. The aims of work design to improved job satisfaction, to improved through-put, to improved quality and to reduced employee problems, e.g., grievances, absenteeism.\n\nDeliberations are key units of analysis in non-linear, knowledge work. They are 'choice points' that move knowledge work forward. As originated and defined by Cal Pava (1983) in a second-generation development of STS theory, deliberations are patterns of exchange and communication to reduce the equivocality of a problematic issue; for example, for systems engineering work, what features to develop in new software. Deliberations are not discrete decisions--they are a more continuous context for decisions. They have 3 aspects: topics, forums, and participants.\n\n\n 18. Pava, C., 1983. Managing New Office Technology. Free Press, New York, NY.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3504482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3504482", "title": "Spoo", "text": "Spoo\n\nSpoo is a fictional foodstuff that served as a running joke within the \"Babylon 5\" science fiction television series. In the series' fictional universe, spoo is made from worm-like creatures of the same name and is generally regarded as the most delicious food in the galaxy; the creature itself, however, is regarded with contempt by most species. Despite appearing only in a few episodes, spoo was embraced by fans and became part of the series' extended mythology.\n\nUse of the word \"spoo\" to denote a foodstuff predates \"Babylon 5\", which began airing in 1993. The show's creator J. Michael Straczynski was a writer for the 1985 cartoon series \"She-Ra Princess of Power\". After a \"Babylon 5\" fan recalled a possible spoo reference from that show, Straczynski replied, \"Yeah, I slipped some spoo in there once. A couple of real cute (as in wanna drop a truck on them cute) elf-types offer Skeletor a bowl of Spoo.\" In a 1995 interview, Straczynski referred to that scene as his favorite of the show.\n\nSpoo appeared in the first episode of \"Babylon 5\", where it was briefly mentioned by the Narn Ambassador, G'Kar. Straczynski, who wrote the episode in question, was asked about spoo by fans on various internet message boards on which he frequently participated. At first, Straczynski's responses were terse: \"Spoo is.\" In another early post, he explained how he created the word: \"Spoo is Oops spelled backward.\" He eventually noted that the taste of spoo is that of \"Meat Jello. Served chilled.\"\n\nAfter years of speculation from \"Babylon 5\" fans, Straczynski finally offered an extensive explanation of the origins and nature of spoo. He said spoo are tiny, pasty, mealworm-like creatures that travel slowly in herds. Their main behavior is sighing, which \"can reportedly induce unparalleled bouts of depression\" in other creatures. They are raised on ranches and harvested through \"whacking\". Spoo are regarded with contempt by most species in \"Babylon 5\"; they \"are the only creatures of which the Interstellar Animal Rights Protection League says, simply, 'Kill 'em.'\" Despite this, they are \"generally considered the most delicious food in all of known space\".\n\nThis near-universal delight in the taste of spoo apparently doesn't include human tastes. In the episode \"A View from the Gallery\", neither of the two maintenance men, Mack and Bo, find spoo to their liking, despite the high price of the delicacy.\n\nThe \"Babylon 5\" episodes in which spoo appears or is mentioned are \"Midnight on the Firing Line\", \"The Geometry of Shadows\", \"Point of No Return\", \"And the Rock Cried Out, No Hiding Place\", \"A View from the Gallery\", \"A Tragedy of Telepaths\", and \"Meditations on the Abyss\". Spoo also appears in the \"Over There\" segment of the \"\" episode \"\", where President Sheridan at one point jokes that the product is \"Spoo: The other gray meat\".\n\nAlthough mostly relegated to a background role, spoo was a key plot point in the season 5 episode \"A Tragedy of Telepaths\". The fact that Narn prefer fresh spoo while the Centauri prefer it aged was the clue that G'Kar used to figure out that there was another Narn in the Centauri Royal Palace. Spoo is referenced in the Straczynski-authored open gaming licensed \"Babylon 5: The Roleplaying Game\".\n\nIn 1998, Boxtree UK published a \"Babylon 5\" cookbook, officially licensed from Warner Bros. Presented as if written around the year 2260, the time when most of the \"Babylon 5\" series takes place, the book contains many recipes for the various foods mentioned and seen throughout the series. Included are recipes for Narn-style spoo and Centauri-style spoo, both using currently available ingredients, with sea scallops taking the place of spoo. Straczynski claims that while dining in a restaurant prior to the 1996 Hugo award ceremony, \"a fan had the waiter bring over a tray of food, christened spoo\".\n\nSpoo is spoofed in the first episode of the \"South Park\" parody \"Babylon Park\", \"Spoohunter\".\n\nIn 2008, rap-filk artist Luke Ski recorded and released a parody of the Beastie Boys song \"No Sleep till Brooklyn\" called \"No Sleep Till Babylon\", which references spoo. A stanza attributed to the \"Babylon 5\" character Londo Mollari contains the lyrics: \"Spoo. All I really want is Spoo. And in the morning it's Spoo. Cause in the evening it's Spoo. I like the way that it tastes. It's blue meatballs in greyish paste...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "857005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857005", "title": "Srebarna Nature Reserve", "text": "Srebarna Nature Reserve\n\nThe Srebarna Nature Reserve (, transliterated as \"Priroden rezervat Srebarna\") is a nature reserve in northeastern Bulgaria (Southern Dobruja), near the village of the same name, 18 km west of Silistra and 2 km south of the Danube. It comprises Lake Srebarna and its surroundings and is located on the Via Pontica, a bird migration route between Europe and Africa.\n\nThe reserve embraces 6 km of protected area and a buffer zone of 5.4 km. The lake's depth varies from 1 to 3 m. There is a museum constructed, where a collection of stuffed species typical for the reserve is arranged.\n\nWhile Lake Srebarna was studied many times in the past by foreign biologists, the first Bulgarian scientist to take an interest in the area was Aleksi Petrov, who visited the reserve in 1911. In 1913, the whole of Southern Dobrudja was incorporated in Romania, but was returned to Bulgaria in 1940, when the area was visited once again by Petrov to examine the colonies of birds that nest there.\nThe area was proclaimed a nature reserve in 1948 and is a Ramsar site since 1975. The reserve was recognized as World Natural Heritage Site under the 1972 Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage and included in the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1983.\n\nThere are several legends about the origin of the lake's name. The one is about a khan named \"Srebrist\", who died in the neighbourhood whilst engaging in an unequal battle with the Pechenegs. A second one tells about a boat full of silver (\"srebro\" in Bulgarian) along the shores of the lake. According to a third one, which is regarded as most plausible, the name comes from the silvery reflections on the lake's surface during full moon.\n\nThere are hydrophyte species such as reed in and around the lake. The reserve is home to 139 plant species, 11 of them are in danger of extinction outside the territory of Srebarna.\n\nA wide variety of fauna exists in the area. 39 mammal, 21 reptile and amphibian and 10 fish species inhabit the reserve, which is most famous for the 179 bird species that nest on its territory, some of which include the Dalmatian pelican, the mute swan, the greylag goose, the marsh harrier, the bluethroat, herons and cormorants.\n\nSrebarna Glacier on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Srebarna.\n\n"}
{"id": "38613852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38613852", "title": "Temperance movement in the United States", "text": "Temperance movement in the United States\n\nThe Temperance movement in the United States is a movement to curb the consumption of alcohol. It had a large influence on American politics and society in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Today, there are organizations that continue to promote the cause of temperance.\n\nIn the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century, various factors contributed to an epidemic of alcoholism that went hand-in-hand with spousal abuse, family neglect, and chronic unemployment. Americans used to drinking lightly alcoholic beverages like cider \"from the crack of dawn to the crack of dawn\" began ingesting far more alcohol as they drank more of strong, cheap beverages like rum (in the colonial period) and whiskey (in the post-Revolutionary period). Popular pressure for cheap and plentiful alcohol led to relaxed ordinances on alcohol sales.\n\nThe Temperance movement sparked to life with Benjamin Rush's 1784 tract, \"An Inquiry Into the Effects of Ardent Spirits Upon the Human Body and Mind\", which judged the excessive use of alcohol injurious to physical and psychological health. Apparently influenced by Dr. Rush's \"Inquiry\", about 200 farmers in a Connecticut community formed a temperance association in 1789 to ban the making of whiskey. Similar associations were formed in Virginia in 1800, and New York State in 1808. Over the next decade, other temperance organizations were formed in eight states, some being statewide organizations. The young movement allowed for temperate or moderate drinking. Many leaders of the movement expanded their activities and took positions on observance of the Sabbath and other moral issues, and by the early 1820s political in-fighting had stalled the movement.\n\nSome leaders persevered in pressing their cause forward. Americans such as Lyman Beecher, who was a Connecticut minister, had started to lecture his fellow citizens against all use of liquor in 1825. The American Temperance Society was formed in 1826 and benefited from a renewed interest in religion and morality. Within 12 years it claimed more than 8,000 local groups and over 4,500,000 members. By 1839, 18 temperance journals were being published. Simultaneously, some Protestant and Catholic church leaders were beginning to promote temperance. The movement split along two lines in the late 1830s: between moderates allowing some drinking and radicals demanding total abstinence, and between voluntarists relying on moral suasion alone and prohibitionists promoting laws to restrict or ban alcohol. Radicals and prohibitionists dominated many of the largest temperance organizations after the 1830s, and temperance eventually became synonymous with prohibition. In 1838, temperance activists pushed the Massachusetts legislature to pass a law restricting the sale of alcohol in quantities less than fifteen gallons. In the 1840s, numerous states passed laws allowing local voters to determine whether or not liquor licences would be issued in their towns or counties. In the 1850s, 13 states and territories passed statewide prohibitory laws (known as \"Maine Laws\"). Throughout this period, temperance reformers also tended to support Sunday laws the restricted the sale of alcohol on Sundays.\n\nThe Civil War dealt the movement a crippling blow. Temperance groups in the South were then weaker than their Northern counterparts and too voluntarist to gain any statewide prohibition law, and the few prohibition laws in the North were repealed by the war's end. Both sides in the war made alcohol sales a part of the war effort by taxing brewers and distillers to finance much of the conflict. The issue of slavery crowded out temperance and temperance groups petered out until they found new life in the 1870s.\n\nTemperance birthed an entire genre of theatre. This was first seen in 1895, as \"The Forgers\", a dramatic poem written by John Blake White, premiered at the Charleston Theatre in Charleston, South Carolina. The next significant temperance drama to debut was titled \"Fifteen Years of a Drunkard's Life\", written by Douglas Jerrold in 1841. As the movement began to grow and prosper, these dramas became more popular among the general public. \"The Drunkard\" by W.H. Smith premiered in 1841 in Boston, running for 144 performances before being produced at P.T. Barnum's American Museum on lower Broadway. The play was wildly popular and is often credited with the entrance of the temperance narrative into mainstream American theatre. It continued to be a staple of New York's theatre scene all the way until 1875. \"The Drunkard\" follows the typical format of a temperance drama: the main character has an alcohol-induced downfall, and he restores his life from disarray once he denounces drinking for good at the play's end. Temperance drama continued to grow as a genre of theatre, fostered by the advent of the railroad as a form of transportation. This enabled theatre companies to be much more mobile, traveling from city to city. Temperance drama would even reach as far as the West Coast, as David Belasco's adaptation of Émile Zola's novel \"Drink\" premiered at the Baldwin Theatre in San Francisco in 1879. The image titled \"The Drunkards Progress\" shown in the top of the article, gives us a representation of the temperance movement. This image depicts the progress of a drunk man, slowly the woman disappears, and the mans night ends in death. This picture shows us that drinking is social but also brings poverty upon people as well as death and loneliness.\n\nMaine was an early hotbed of the temperance movement. The world's first Total Abstinence Society was formed in Portland in 1815, and a statewide temperance group formed in 1834. These groups won a major victory in 1838 when they pressured the state legislature to pass the Fifteen Gallon Law, which prohibited the sale of spirits in quantities of less than that amount. Its practical effect was to make hard liquor available to the wealthy, who were the only ones who could afford such quantities. It was repealed within two years. However, in 1851 the so-called Maine law passed, which banned the production and sale of alcoholic beverages. Thus Maine became the first \"dry\" state. However, the law's exception for \"medicinal, mechanical and manufacturing purposes\" meant that liquor was still available for some.\n\nAs Reconstruction came to a close in the 1870s, most white reformers grew uninterested in racial equality and invested more energy into temperance. This period produced various temperance organizations including the prohibitionist Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU, f. 1874) and the voluntarist Catholic Total Abstinence Union of America (CTAU, f. 1872). Prohibitionist temperance grew popular in the South as it embraced the \"Southern\" values of racial hierarchy, gender roles, and honor. The national movement enlisted more religious support throughout the country, especially from evangelicals.\n\nIn 1873, the WCTU established a Department of Scientific Temperance Instruction in Schools and Colleges, with Mary Hunt as National Superintendent. The WCTU was an influential organization with a membership of 120,000 by 1879. Frances Willard led the group under the motto \"Do Everything\" to protect women and children. Some of the changes the WCTU sought included property and custody rights for women, women's suffrage, raising the age of consensual sex, peace arbitration, women's education, and advocacy for working rights of women.\nBecause of the correlation between drinking and domestic violence—many drunken husbands abused family members—the temperance movement existed alongside various women's rights and other movements, including the Progressive movement, and often the same activists were involved in multiple movements. Many notable voices of the time, ranging from Lucy Webb Hayes to Susan B. Anthony, were active in temperance. In Canada, Nellie McClung was a longstanding advocate of temperance. As with most social movements, there was a gamut of activists running from violent (Carrie Nation) to mild (Neal S. Dow).\n\nThe American Temperance University opened in 1893 in the planned town of Harriman, Tennessee, which was developed as a community with no alcoholic beverages permitted. In its second year of operation the institution enrolled 345 students from 20 states. However, it closed in 1908.\n\nMuddied and ill-tasting drinking water encouraged many Americans to drink alcohol for health purposes, so temperance groups constructed public drinking fountains throughout the United States following the Civil War. The National Woman's Christian Temperance Union (NWCTU)'s organizing convention of 1874 strongly encouraged its attendees to erect the fountains in the places that they had come from. The NWCTU advocated public temperance fountains as a means to discourage males from entering drinking establishment for refreshment.\n\nCast-stone statues of Hebe were marketed for use in temperance fountains. In Union Square Park{ (New York City) the James Fountain (1881), is a Temperance fountain with the figure of Charity who empties her jug of water, aided by a child; it was donated by Daniel Willis James and sculpted by Adolf Donndorf. In Washington DC \"the\" Temperance Fountain was donated to the city in 1882 by Temperance crusader Henry D. Cogswell. This fountain was one of a series of fountains he designed and commissioned in a belief that easy access to cool drinking water would keep people from consuming alcohol. Under its stone canopy the words \"Faith,\" \"Hope,\" \"Charity,\" and \"Temperance\" are chiseled. Atop this canopy is a life-sized heron, and the centerpiece is a pair of entwined heraldic scaly dolphins. Originally, visitors were supposed to freely drink ice water flowing from the dolphins' snouts with a brass cup attached to the fountain and the overflow was collected by a trough for horses, but the city tired of having to replenish the ice in a reservoir underneath the base and disconnected the supply pipes. Other Cogswell fountains include one still standing in New York City's Tompkins Square Park.\n\nSimon Benson, an Oregon lumberman, was a tee-totaler who wanted to discourage his workers from drinking alcohol in the middle of the day. In 1912, Benson gave the City of Portland USD$10,000 for the installation of twenty bronze drinking fountains. As of May 2012, these fountains, known as \"Benson Bubblers\", continue to be used as functional public drinking devices in downtown Portland; two Portland \"Benson Bubbler\" locations are Eastbank Esplanade and the corner of \"3rd and Burnside\".\n\nThe last wave of temperance in the United States saw the rise of the Anti-Saloon League (ASL), which successfully pushed for National Prohibition from its enactment in 1920 to its repeal in 1933. This heavily prohibitionist wave attracted a diverse coalition: doctors, pastors, and eugenicists; Klansmen and liberal internationalists; business leaders and labor radicals; conservative evangelicals and liberal theologians.\n\nRev. Howard Hyde Russell founded the Anti-Saloon League (ASL) in 1893. Under the leadership of Wayne Wheeler the ASL stressed political results and perfected the art of pressure politics. It did not demand that politicians change their drinking habits, only their votes in the legislature. Other organizations like the Prohibition Party and the WCTU soon lost influence to the better-organized and more focused ASL.\n\nThe ASL's motto was \"the Church in action against the saloon,\" and it mobilized its religious coalition to pass state (and local) legislation (establishing dry states and dry counties).\n\nBy the late nineteenth century, most Protestant denominations and the American wing of the Catholic Church supported the movement to legally restrict the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages. These groups believed that alcohol consumption led to corruption, prostitution, spousal abuse and other criminal activities. Brewers and distillers resisted the reform movement, which threatened to ruin their livelihood, and also feared women having the vote, because they expected women to vote for prohibition.\n\nEnergized by the anti-German sentiment during World War I, the ASL achieved its main goal of passage on December 18, 1917—the 18th Amendment. Upon ratification by three-fourths of the state legislatures by January 16, 1919, established National Prohibition. (the Amendment came into effect on January 16, 1920)\nProhibition banned \"the manufacture, sale, and transportation of alcoholic beverages in the United States and its possessions.\" However, Prohibition did not outlaw the private possession or consumption of alcohol products.\nHarvard Medical School professors Jack Harold Mendelson and Nancy K Mello, write with regard to temperance sentiment in contemporary America that \"rallying cries once structured in terms of social order, home and basic decency are now framed in terms of health promotion and disease prevention.\" Original temperance organizations such as the Woman's Christian Temperance Union and International Organization of Good Templars continue their work today, while new \"temperance enterprises found support in a variety of institutional venues\" such as the Marin Institute for the Prevention of Alcohol and Other Drug Problems and Center for Science in the Public Interest. These temperance organizations focus their efforts on \"promoting increased taxation, reducing alcohol advertising, and monitoring of the beverage industry\", as well as the supporting of Sunday blue laws, which prohibit the sale of alcohol of Sundays.\n\nTemperance organizations of the United States played an essential role in bringing about ratification of the Eighteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution establishing national prohibition of alcohol. Some temperance organizations in the United States include:\n\nThere was often considerable overlap in membership in these organizations, as well as in leadership. Prominent temperance leaders in the United States included Bishop James Cannon, Jr., James Black, Ernest Cherrington, Neal S. Dow, Mary Hunt, William E. Johnson (known as \"Pussyfoot\" Johnson), Carrie Nation, Howard Hyde Russell, John St. John, Billy Sunday, Father Mathew, Andrew Volstead and Wayne Wheeler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47080318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47080318", "title": "The Annunciation, with Saint Emidius", "text": "The Annunciation, with Saint Emidius\n\nThe Annunciation, with Saint Emidius is an altarpiece by Italian artist Carlo Crivelli showing an artistic adaptation of the Annunciation. The altarpiece was painted for the Church of SS. Annunziata in the Italian town of Ascoli Piceno, in the region of Marche, to celebrate the self-government granted to the town in 1482 by Pope Sixtus IV. The painting was removed to the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan in 1811, but passed to Auguste-Louis de Sivry in 1820, and had reached England by the mid-19th century. It has been housed in the National Gallery in London since it was donated by Henry Labouchere, 1st Baron Taunton in 1864.\n\nThe light ray from the heaven represents Mary's impregnation by the Holy Spirit. The closed passage into the depth at the left and the flask of pure water in Mary's bedroom conventionally refer to Mary's virginity. The winged angel Gabriel is depicted with Saint Emidius, the patron saint of Ascoli Piceno carrying a model of that town. The apple in the foreground represents the forbidden fruit and associated fall of man. The cucumber symbolizes the promise of resurrection and redemption. The peacock symbolizes associated immortality, because it was believed that its flesh never decayed. An oriental carpet adorns the loggia on the first floor of the Mary's house.\n\nThe bottom portion of the painting features the coats of arms of Pope Sixtus IV and the local bishop, Prospero Caffarelli. The Latin words \"libertas ecclesiastica\" (church liberty) refer to the self-government of Ascoli Piceno under the general oversight of the Catholic Church. In fringe theories, the halo of the Holy Spirit on the painting is sometimes interpreted as an UFO. According to historian Massimo Polidoro who says what you are actually seeing is \"a vortex of angels in the clouds, another frequent representation of God in Medieval and Renaissance sacred works of art\". Painters at this time used \"symbolic meanings that were anything but random.\" Polidoro calls the UFO explanation, \"reinterpreting with the eyes of twenty-first-century Europeans the product of other cultures\". \n"}
{"id": "1484931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1484931", "title": "The Family: The Real Story of the Bush Dynasty", "text": "The Family: The Real Story of the Bush Dynasty\n\nThe Family: The Real Story of the Bush Dynasty is an unauthorized biography of the Bush family by the American investigative journalist Kitty Kelley. It was published on September 14, 2004, less than two months before the 2004 US Presidential election. Reviews of the book were mixed, with some of the \"accusations,\" according to \"The New York Times\", \"[standing] up better than others.\"\n\nGlynn Wilson, a free-lance journalist from Alabama, sued Kelley for plagiarism claiming passages from the book have the exact wording as his online article.\n\n"}
{"id": "461143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461143", "title": "The House of the Dead (novel)", "text": "The House of the Dead (novel)\n\nThe House of the Dead (, \"Zapiski iz Myortvogo doma\") is a semi-autobiographical novel published in 1860–2 in the journal \"Vremya\" by Russian author Fyodor Dostoevsky, which portrays the life of convicts in a Siberian prison camp. The novel has also been published under the titles Memoirs from the House of The Dead, Notes from the Dead House (or Notes from a Dead House), and Notes from the House of the Dead. The book is a loosely-knit collection of facts, events and philosophical discussion organised by \"theme\" rather than as a continuous story. Dostoevsky himself spent four years in exile in such a camp following his conviction for involvement in the Petrashevsky Circle. This experience allowed him to describe with great authenticity the conditions of prison life and the characters of the convicts.\n\nAfter his mock execution on 22 December 1849, Dostoevsky's life was spared in exchange for four years of imprisonment in one of Siberia’s \"katorga\" labor camps. Though he often was met with hostility from the other prisoners due to his noble status of \"dvoryanin\", his views on life changed. After his time in the camps Dostoevsky returned to write \"The House of the Dead\". The novel incorporates several of the horrifying experiences he witnessed while in prison. He recalls the guards’ brutality and relish performing unspeakably cruel acts, the crimes that the convicted criminals committed, and the fact that blended amid these great brutes were good and decent individuals.\nHowever, he is also astonished at the convicts’ abilities to commit murders without the slightest change in conscience. It was a stark contrast with his own heightened sensitivity. During this time in prison he began experiencing the epileptic seizures that would plague him for the rest of his life. \"House of the Dead\" led Dostoevsky to include the theme of murder in his later works, a theme not found in any of his works preceding \"House of the Dead\".\n\nThe narrator, Aleksandr Petrovich Goryanchikov, has been sentenced to penalty deportation to Siberia and ten years of hard labour for murdering his wife. Life in prison is particularly hard for Aleksandr Petrovich, since he is a \"gentleman\" and suffers the malice of the other prisoners, nearly all of whom belong to the peasantry. Gradually Goryanchikov overcomes his revulsion at his situation and his fellow convicts, undergoing a spiritual re-awakening that culminates with his release from the camp. It is a work of great humanity; Dostoevsky portrays the inmates of the prison with sympathy for their plight, and also expresses admiration for their energy, ingenuity and talent. He concludes that the existence of the prison, with its absurd practices and savage corporal punishments is a tragic fact, both for the prisoners and for Russia.\n\nMany of the characters in the novel were very similar to the real-life people that Dostoevsky met while in prison. While many of the characters do mirror real-life people, he has also made some of the characters appear more interesting than their real-life counterparts.\n\n\"The House of the Dead\" was Dostoevsky’s only work that Leo Tolstoy revered.\n\n\nIn 1927–1928, Leoš Janáček wrote an operatic version of the novel, with the title \"From the House of the Dead\". It was his last opera.\n\nIn 1932, the novel was adapted to a film, directed by Vasili Fyodorov and starring Nikolay Khmelyov.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45315933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45315933", "title": "Threshold stone", "text": "Threshold stone\n\nA threshold stone or sill stone () is a rectangularly dressed stone slab that forms part of the entrance of megalithic tombs of the Funnelbeaker culture, normally those with a passage. The red sandstone slab, up to 0.1-metre-thick, was buried in the ground to a depth of 0.2 metres at the entrance to the chamber. Cultural sites of other types, such as Domus de Janas, also have a clear partition between the passage and the ante-chamber or main chamber.\nThreshold stones are typical of dolmens, gallery graves and passage graves, etc. Whilst in most simple dolmens the blocking stone (\"Verschlussstein\") of the entrance side was replaced by a threshold stone of varying height, the entrance to extended dolmens and great dolmens was narrowed axially or coaxially usually to about half the width of the chamber and the lower threshold stone marked the transition in the open doorway between the passage and the chamber. In simple dolmens with no passage and an entrance opening, the threshold reaches almost half the height of the chamber and protrudes 0.5 m above the hallway floor in Grave 9 in the northern part of the Everstorf Forest. Usually, however the upper edge of the threshold is not generally higher than 0.1 metres above the level of the hall floor in dolmens. The length of the threshold in polygonal dolmens and gallery and passage graves is also the width of the entrance which, in the Funnelbeaker culture, rarely exceeds 0.7 metres.\n\nAs well as separating the sacral chamber from the profane passage, the threshold stone also serves to support a door slab or sealing slab. If the passageway was used, e.g. in connexion with secondary burials, for cultic purposes, it was given a covering of flagstones and a second, outer threshold stone.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14636932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14636932", "title": "Vacation home deductions", "text": "Vacation home deductions\n\nIn United States federal income tax, a Vacation home deduction is a tax deduction to be claimed on an individual taxpayer's vacation home.\n\nThis deduction is limited under law. Generally, a taxpayer may not deduct expenses related to a vacation home since the owner uses the property for personal enjoyment. However, a taxpayer may claim limited deductions on a vacation home if the taxpayer uses the property as both a vacation home and rental property.\n\nIf the taxpayer uses the property for the greater of 14 days or 10% of the number of days the\nproperty is rented, the taxpayer may deduct some of the property-related expenses. These deductions are limited to the gross income from the rent less the general expenses attributable to the rental use of the property. The taxpayer may deduct the expenses related to the property limited to (i) the number of days the property was rented at fair market rental value over (ii) the total number of days the property was used.\n\nIf the taxpayer rents the property for less than 15 days, the taxpayer may not deduct any\nproperty-related expenses. However, in this case, the taxpayer does not have to include as income any rent attributable to the property.\n"}
{"id": "630576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=630576", "title": "Xenography", "text": "Xenography\n\nXenography is knowledge of a foreign language.\n\nIn Spiritualism, writing in a language which is unknown to the writer. It is similar, but not the same as, xenoglossy and xenolalia. \n"}
{"id": "53263681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53263681", "title": "Ñawpa Pacha", "text": "Ñawpa Pacha\n\nÑawpa Pacha, Journal of Andean Archaeology is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal published by Taylor & Francis on behalf of the Institute of Andean Studies (Berkeley, California). \"Ñawpa Pacha\" means \"Antiquity\" in the Quechua language. It was established by John Howland Rowe in 1963.\n\nThe journal’s current editor-in-chief since 2011 is Jerry Moore.\n\nArticles published in \"Ñawpa Pacha\" cover topics such archaeology, history, linguistics, ethnology and biology of ancient cultures from the Andes of South America.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in IBZ Online, Anthropological Literature, Hispanic American Periodicals Index, JournalTOCs and Latindex.\n\n"}
