{"id": "40214881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40214881", "title": "2013 Zanzibar acid attack", "text": "2013 Zanzibar acid attack\n\nOn 7 August 2013, two men on motorcycles threw acid on two 18-year-old British volunteer teachers, Katie Gee and Kirstie Trup, near Stone Town, Zanzibar, Tanzania.\n\nKatie Gee and Kirstie Trup are from Hampstead, London. They were volunteering at a local school in Zanzibar.\n\nIn November 2012, Sheik Fadhil Soraga was the victim of an acid attack.\n\nIn February, a Roman Catholic priest was shot to death and a church was burned down. In the past, another priest was shot and wounded and other churches were also burned.\n\nAccording to a close friend of the two, a Muslim woman struck Ms. Trup in the face for singing in public during Ramadan.\n\nThe two were nearing the end of their one-month volunteer teaching when the attack happened. The attack happened at 7:15 pm on 7 August 2013. The two women were walking on the street on their way to dinner when their attackers approached and threw sulphuric acid on them.\n\nBoth women suffered burns to their face, hands, and chest. One woman suffered lesser injuries because she was walking on the side of the curb away from the attackers, so was doused with less liquid.\n\nAfter being treated at a local hospital, the two returned to London to be treated by specialists. Gee lost an ear and faces further multiple operations, but has expressed determination to overcome the attack and a desire for justice.\n\nFive men were questioned by the police as of August 9, 2013. As of August 13, 2013, no arrests have been made for committing the acid attack and the motive for the attack is unknown.\n\nPolice have arrested Sheikh Issa Ponda Issa after he ran from the police. He was wanted for a possible connection to the acid attack. Mr Ponda had previously been convicted of inciting religious hatred.\nA reward of 10 million Tanzanian shillings has been offered for information leading to the capture of the attackers.\n"}
{"id": "55728969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55728969", "title": "Dardeen family homicides", "text": "Dardeen family homicides\n\nOn the evening of November 18, 1987, police went to the mobile home of Russell Keith Dardeen, 29 and his family outside Ina, Illinois, United States after he had failed to show up for work that day. There they found the bodies of his wife and son, both brutally beaten. Ruby Elaine Dardeen, 30, who had been pregnant with the couple's daughter, had been beaten so badly she had gone into labor, and the killer or killers had also beaten the newborn to death.\n\nThe killings had apparently taken place the day before. Investigators at first believed that Keith was the prime suspect. However, that theory was discredited the next day, when his body was found in a nearby field. He had been shot and his genitals mutilated; his car was found parked near the police station in Benton. Forensic examination showed he had been killed within an hour of his family.\n\nResidents of Jefferson and Franklin counties, who were already fearful after more than 10 murders had taken place locally in the preceding two years, became even more so. Many armed themselves; some suffered adverse psychological effects. Rumors held that the killings were the work of Satanists; police soon ruled that out as well as other causes from illicit behavior such as drug dealing, marital infidelity or gambling. But the crime scene also ruled out rape or robbery as associated incident crimes, and in the absence of any clear cause or leads the crime remained unsolved.\n\nNo suspects were identified in the quadruple homicide until the 2000s, after serial killer Tommy Lynn Sells, following his conviction and death sentence for murdering a teenage girl in Texas, claimed to have committed the crime. However, he was never charged since prison authorities there would not let him leave the state to assist police in Southern Illinois with their investigation, and they as well as the Dardeen family have doubts about his account of the killings. The case is otherwise cold.\n\nBoth Dardeens went by their middle names. Keith, a native of Mount Carmel, bought the trailer in 1986 after completing the training required for his job as a treatment plant operator at the Rend Lake Water Conservancy District's nearby facility. Elaine, who was from Albion, a little closer to Ina, moved there later with their 2-year-old son, Peter. They rented the land it sat on from a nearby farming couple. Keith worked; his wife found a job at an office supply store in Mount Vernon, the Jefferson County seat. When not working, the couple were part of the musical ensemble at a small Baptist church in the village. Keith sang lead vocals while Elaine played the piano.\n\nIn 1987 Elaine became pregnant with the couple's second child. They had decided to name it either Ian or Casey depending on whether it was a boy or a girl. The pending addition to the family had led Keith and Elaine to strongly consider moving; by late in the year they had put the mobile home up for sale.\n\nHowever that was not the only reason for the move. According to Joeann Dardeen, Keith's mother, he had said he would move back to Mount Carmel even if he were unable to find a job there before doing so, as he regretted ever having moved to Ina, telling her that that area was becoming too violent. There had been 15 homicides in Jefferson County during the previous two years, starting with those committed by Thomas Odle, a Mount Vernon teenager who had killed his parents and three siblings as they individually returned to the house one night in 1985. \n\nThough Odle, as well as some of those charged with murder in the other cases, had been convicted, residents of the rural area had become fearful and stressed. A friend of Keith said that, after a 10-year-old girl had been raped and murdered in the area in May 1987, Keith became so protective of the family that one night, when a young woman came by the mobile home asking if she could make a phone call, he refused to let her in.\n\nOn November 18, Keith, who had been a reliable worker at the treatment plant, did not report for his shift. He had not called to inform his supervisor that he would be unable to come in, and calls to his house went unanswered all day. His supervisor called both of Keith's parents, who were divorced but still lived near each other in Mount Carmel. Neither of them knew what could have happened to their son.\n\nDon Dardeen, Keith's father, called the Jefferson County sheriff's office and agreed to drive down to Ina with the house key and meet deputies at the home of his son and daughter-in-law, between Illinois Route 37 and the former Illinois Central Railroad tracks, now used by Union Pacific, just north of the Franklin County line. Inside they found the bodies of Elaine, Peter and a newborn girl, all tucked into the same bed. Elaine had been bound and gagged with duct tape; both had been beaten to death–apparently with a baseball bat found at the scene, a birthday gift to Peter from his father earlier that year. Elaine had been beaten so severely that she had gone into labor and delivered a girl, who soon met with the same fate as her mother and brother.\n\nKeith was not present, nor was his car, a red 1981 Plymouth. Investigators assumed he had killed his wife and children and was at large. A team of armed police went to his mother's house in Mount Vernon looking for him. The search ended late the following day, however, when a group of hunters found his body in a wheatfield not far from the trailer, just south of the county line, near Rend Lake College. He had been shot three times; his penis was also severed. The Plymouth was found parked outside the police station in Benton, south of the Dardeen home, its interior spattered with blood.\n\nNews of the killings made area residents even more fearful than they had already been. Many residents began going about their daily business with shotguns visible in their vehicles' gun racks. After high school basketball games, students would wait in the school building for their parents to come in and accompany them to the parking lot for their ride home instead of socializing outside as they normally did.\n\nEarly reports from police about the crime were limited, and sometimes contradictory, allowing rumors to spread. The two counties' respective coroners differed on whether Keith had died of a head injury or been shot; among those who reported the former, it was said that it had been inflicted when he was dragged from a car. The circumstances under which Elaine gave birth, perhaps posthumously, to her short-lived daughter, gave rise to stories that Casey (as the family called her) had been ripped from her mother's womb. Along with the mutilation of Keith's genitals, this supported speculation that Satanists were active in the area and had performed a ritual sacrifice of the family. The crime was also posited to be the work, along with three other local unsolved murders, of a regional serial killer.\n\nDr. Richard Garretson, a family physician who doubled as the Jefferson County coroner, told the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" in early December that many of his patients talked to him about the case and how it had disturbed them. One man who said he lived a half-mile (900 m) from the Dardeens' trailer told Garretson he was having difficulty sleeping and had lost as a result of the stress. Also unable to sleep was the Dardeens' landlords' daughter, who told her parents years later that she kept her bedroom light on and read all night out of fear.\n\nRobert Lewis, the Franklin County coroner, felt a lot of the fear was unjustified. \"I don't think there is a rational basis for the near hysteria\", he told the newspaper. \"The people are frightening each other\". People were so afraid, he said, that if someone ran out of gas in the county he would not seek assistance in any nearby homes but would instead walk to the nearest highway and hitch a ride.\n\nLocal police agencies joined forces with the Illinois State Police to investigate the crime. A total of 30 detectives worked full-time following leads and interviewing 100 people. None of what they found proved fruitful. A man taken into custody early on was released after being questioned; likewise, a coworker of Keith's he reportedly had been having a dispute with was cleared.\n\nNo one who knew the couple had anything bad to say about them. A small quantity of marijuana was found in the trailer, but not enough to suggest they were involved in dealing. Police even believed the marijuana might have been inadvertently left behind by the killer or killers. The autopsies found no drugs or alcohol in any of the victims.\n\nThe coroners put the time of death for all the Dardeens at within an hour of each other. The bodies in the trailer had been killed 12 hours before they were found, and Keith Dardeen had been dead for 24 to 36 hours when he was found. Resolving this question, however, made it harder to determine how the crime had been committed, since Keith's body was found away from the trailer, and he may have been killed at that location rather than with his family. At the trailer, the killer or killers had apparently taken the time to not only tuck Elaine's body into bed along with her children's bodies but also to clean up the scene, suggesting they did not feel any urgency to leave. The amount of effort involved led police to theorize that the crime may have taken place at night, since the trailer on Route 37, a busy state highway, but also because it could be seen at the time from Interstate 57 almost to the west. It was also an open question as to whether there was one killer or not.\n\nIt was also hard to determine what the motive of the assailant(s) might have been. The back door had been left open; there was no evidence of forced entry. A VCR and portable camera were in plain sight in the living room. Elsewhere in the house equally accessible cash and jewelry remained. These facts argued against robbery as the motive. Elaine had not been raped or sexually assaulted.\n\nPolice also found no evidence of any extramarital affairs involving either Keith or Elaine that might have motivated the other party to a jealous rage. A stack of papers with sports scores found in the house led them to wonder whether Keith might have incurred gambling debts. Joeann Dardeen told police her son was so frugal that he raised money for his young son's college fund by reselling 50-cent cans of soda at work for a small profit.\n\nDespite the widespread fear the case engendered, Lewis, the Franklin County coroner, did not believe the Dardeens were randomly chosen. \"I believe it was a very personal, deliberate thing\", he told the \"Post-Dispatch\". A police expert on cults told the newspaper that the rumor that Satanists were responsible was untrue since such groups often mutilated bodies more extensively, harvest organs, and leave symbols and lit candles at the scene of their crimes. None of those had been found at the Dardeen's trailer.\n\nPolice did allow, however, for the possibility that while the Dardeens were chosen purposely, it may have been a case of mistaken identity by the killer or killers. Joeann Dardeen said later that she had considered other motives someone might have had for killing her son and his family. \"I think someone wanted Keith to sell drugs and he refused,\" she said in 1997. \"Or there's a possibility someone liked Elaine and she wouldn't accept his advances and he took out his rage on both of them ... We just don't know\".\n\nEventually, the police exhausted all leads and had to start working other cases. Two FBI profilers came to the area to review the evidence. They were able to make some suggestions, but generally found the crime defied the sort of analysis they typically did.\n\nJoeann Dardeen worked to keep the public from completely losing interest. Throughout the 1990s she regularly called the one detective still assigned to the case with possible leads she had learned of, or requests for any news he could share. She gathered 3,000 signatures from area residents on a petition to \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", asking producers to do a segment on the killings of her son and his family. They turned her down, saying the crime was too brutal for daytime television. \"America's Most Wanted\" had a similar reaction at first, but then changed its mind and ran a segment in 1998. The show did not generate any new leads.\n\nPolice were briefly interested in Mexican-born serial killer Ángel Maturino Reséndiz, then known by his alias Rafael Resendes Ramirez, after he surrendered to authorities in Texas in 1999. He often traveled around the country by hopping freight trains, choosing his victims near the tracks they traveled and often beating them to death. While those elements suggested the Dardeen killings, authorities in Illinois were never able to connect him to the crime.\n\nAnother serial killer in Texas would soon bring himself to the attention of the investigators in Illinois. On the last day of 1999, Tommy Lynn Sells cut the throats of two girls near Del Rio, Texas. One survived and helped police identify him; he was eventually convicted and sentenced to death for that murder and another one earlier in 1999, where he had killed a girl in San Antonio. While he was awaiting trial on the first murder charge, he began confessing to other murders he had committed while drifting around the country, sometimes by hopping freights as well.\n\nOne was the Dardeen family. Sells said he did not remember the details of all the crimes he admitted to, which he describes as a coping strategy from the sexual abuse he endured as a child in the Missouri Bootheel, but he did remember that one. In the mid-1980s, Sells was living primarily near St. Louis, roughly northwest of Jefferson County, and making money from working at traveling carnivals and fairs, as a day laborer, or through theft. For the latter pursuit, he often hitched rides on truckers or hopped freights without any particular destination in mind. \"Anywhere a ride was going I was heading that way. Might be in Illinois today and Oklahoma tomorrow\", Sells explained later.\n\nIt was through those modes of transportation that he became familiar with the Ina area. On one trip through Jefferson County in November 1987, he claimed in 2010 to have met Keith at a truck stop near Mount Vernon or, in a different retelling, at a local pool hall. In both versions, he says, Keith invited Sells home for dinner. After the meal, Sells was simply planning to move on, but then Keith allegedly triggered his anger by sexually propositioning him, in one account to a threesome with Elaine. \n\nHe forced Keith at gunpoint to drive to where his body was found, killed and mutilated him, then returned to the trailer to kill Elaine and Peter, who were witnesses, although he says it was at the time the result of uncontrollable rage that Keith's alleged sexual offer had set off in him. \"I was just so pissed off that I took it to the maximum limit ... Rage don't have a stop button\". He implied that it explained why he had killed the infant Elaine had delivered during the crime as well.\n\nIn a third version, Sells dispensed with the encounter with Keith and the sexual proposition entirely. According to that account, he got off a freight he had hopped near Ina. When he saw the Dardeen trailer with its \"For Sale\" sign, he saw an opportunity for a killing. After drinking beers and waiting for the right time, he knocked on the door and told a wary Keith he was interested in buying the trailer. He then overpowered Keith, made him bind and gag his wife and son with duct tape, and forced him to drive his car to the nearby field at gunpoint, where he sliced Keith's penis off, telling him he was going to take it back to Elaine, then shot him and left it there. At the trailer he raped Elaine, then beat Peter, Elaine and the newborn to death. After cleaning up he drove Keith's car to Benton.\n\nTo some investigators, Sells' 2014 execution by Texas was justice for the Dardeens as well. He was never charged with their murders, but, \"he remains the No. 1 suspect\", Jefferson County state's attorney Douglas Hoffman said, a week after the execution. Sheriff Roger Mulch agreed. The county deputy sheriff who interviewed Sells in his Texas cell says he knew details of the crime that had been kept confidential.\n\nBut even they agree that Sells may have added details to his story, as he was known to do, something that has left considerable doubt about many of the killings he confessed to. Other investigators are less sure. While Sells' account is consistent with the general facts of the case, they say, most of what he told them had previously been reported publicly.\n\nWhen Sells was asked about some information that has been withheld from media accounts of the killing, he seemed less reliable. His claim as to which seat of Keith's Plymouth he was shot in is belied by the evidence. And when asked how Elaine's body was positioned, he at first answered incorrectly, then correctly, which may merely have been a lucky guess.\n\n\"I know people got their doubts\", Sells said in his 2010 interview with \"The Southern Illinoisan\". He responded to some of them: \"They say there's no physical evidence tying me to Dardeens, but there wasn't for any of them because they wasn't looking for me. I moved. I was always a transient\".\n\nPolice in Texas confirmed Sells was responsible for 22 murders, but came to believe that, in conscious imitation of another Texas serial killer, Henry Lee Lucas, he was trying to avoid the death penalty by confessing to crimes he had not committed and taking advantage of the judicial system's gratitude. Their counterparts in Illinois thus wanted to take Sells to Ina so they could see how well he knew the area and the locations relevant to the crimes; he claimed he could lead them to missing evidence. However, Texas law does not allow prisoners on death row to be taken out of state, and authorities there were unwilling to find a way to make an exception. So Duncan declined to file murder charges for lack of sufficient evidence.\n\nDoubts about Sells' confession are not limited to local law enforcement. Friends and family have issues with some of his claims. For one, they doubt that Keith would have invited home someone from out of town whom he had just met to even have dinner with the family, especially given the heightened fear in the area after all the killings over the preceding two years. \"If he wouldn't let a young girl in to use the phone, he wouldn't let a 22-year-old man in\", said a friend, referring to Sells' age at that time.\n\nThey also find Sells' claim that Keith made a homosexual advance to him unlikely. They had never perceived him as even possibly having an interest in his own sex, and police did not find any evidence of that during their initial investigation. The detectives who interviewed Sells believe that if he did kill the Dardeens, he invented that detail to make the crime seem more justified; in confessing to other crimes, he often included similar stories to make it seem like the victims had provoked him.\n\nJoeann Dardeen's position on Sells' guilt has evolved. In 2000, when the confession was first reported, she told the \"Chicago Tribune\" that she was as certain as the police that he was the suspect. She believed only talking to him could clear up any lingering doubts. \"I have always wanted to know every detail\", she said. \"Some people may think that's gory. But when someone does something to (my family), I want to know why\". \n\nSeven years later, on the 20th anniversary of the killings, a year after Sells' initial execution date had been stayed so a federal appeals court could consider a question about his mental state, she said she was \"99 percent sure\", and expressed again her interest in possibly talking to Sells. \"There's just a little bit of doubt there. Not that he didn't do it; I'm wondering if maybe somebody helped him\".\n\nIn his 2010 interview, Sells was skeptical of what such a conversation might accomplish. \"Joeann wants to talk to me. If she wants to come here and talk to me, scream at me, yell, kick me, hit me, she should have that right\", he said. But he said that no apology he could make could possibly give her closure. \"[S]orry ain't gonna cut it. So what is there to say? I could tell her sorry every day the rest of my life. It's not going to stop her pain, and one thing I do know about is pain, and it don't go away\".\n\nThe two never did talk. By the time of Sells' 2014 execution, Joeann had come to believe he was not the man who killed her son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren. \"I wanted him to stay alive until I know positively he didn't do it\", she told the Associated Press shortly afterward. \"[T]he things he said do not match up with what I know about Keith\", she told Pat Gauen, the \"Post-Dispatch\" reporter who had originally covered the case in 1987. \"A lot of people think it's done and over with, but to me it's not\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44418", "title": "Deliberative assembly", "text": "Deliberative assembly\n\nA deliberative assembly is a gathering of members (of any kind of collective) who use parliamentary procedure to make decisions.\n\nIn a speech to the electorate at Bristol in 1774, Edmund Burke described the British Parliament as a \"deliberative assembly,\" and the expression became the basic term for a body of persons meeting to discuss and determine common action.\n\n\"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\" describes the following characteristics of a deliberative assembly:\n\nA member of a deliberative assembly has the right to attend meetings, make motions, speak in debate, and vote. Organizations may have different classes of members (such as regular members, active members, associate members, and honorary members), but the rights of each class of membership must be defined (such as whether a \"member\" in a class has the right to vote). There may also be ex-officio members, or persons who are members by virtue of some other office or position they hold. Ex-officio members have the same rights as other members.\n\n\"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\" identifies several types of deliberative assemblies.\n\nA \"mass meeting\", which is an unorganized group meeting open to all individuals in a sector of the population who are interested in deliberating about a subject proposed by the meeting's sponsors. Examples include meetings to discuss common political concerns or community interests.\n\nA \"local assembly of an organized society\", which is a membership meeting of a local chapter or branch of a membership organization. Examples include local chapter meetings of organizations like the Sierra Club.\n\nA \"convention\", which is a meeting of delegates who represent constituent units of a population. Conventions are not permanently established bodies, and delegates are normally elected for only one term. A convention may be held by an organized society, where each local assembly is represented by a delegate.\n\nA \"legislative body\", which is a legally established public lawmaking body. It consists of representatives chosen by the electorate. Examples include national legislatures such as parliaments, and local government councils such as state legislatures, regional assemblies and city councils.\n\nA \"board\", which is an administrative, managerial, or quasi-judicial body. A board derives its power from an outside authority that defines the scope of its operations. Examples include an organized society's or company's board of directors and government agency boards like a board of education.\n\nA \"committee\" is a body of one or more persons subordinate to a deliberative assembly. A committee is not itself considered to be a form of assembly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23238", "title": "Demographics of China", "text": "Demographics of China\n\nThe demographics of China demonstrate a large population with a relatively small youth component, partially a result of China's one-child policy. China's population reached the billion mark in 1982.\nBy 2017, China's population had reached 1.411 billion, the largest of any country in the world. According to the 2010 census, 91.51% of the population was Han Chinese, and 8.49% were minorities. China's population growth rate is only 0.59%, ranking 159th in the world. China conducted its sixth national population census on 1 November 2010. Unless otherwise indicated, the statistics on this page pertain to mainland China only; see also Demographics of Hong Kong and Demographics of Macau.\n\nThe population of China fluctuated between 30 million and 86 million during the Han dynasty. \n\nAfter the collapse of the Han Dynasty, the population stayed around 50 million until the advent of the Tang Dynasty.\n\nUnder the Tang Dynasty, the population increased from 45 million to 80 million over the course of 200 years.\n\nAt the beginning of the Song Dynasty, the population stood at over 100 million.\n\nAfter Ming and earlier period of Qing dynasty founded population moved around 100 million to 150 million until 1700s. \n\nIn the period between 1749 and 1851, the population doubled in a century. \n\nDuring 1960-2015, the population grew to nearly 1.4 billion. Under Mao Zedong, China nearly doubled in population from 540 million in 1949 to 969 million in 1979. This growth slowed because of the one-child policy instituted in 1979. \n\nThe People's Republic of China conducted censuses in 1953, 1964, 1982, 2000, and 2010. In 1987, the government announced that the fourth national census would take place in 1990 and that there would be one every ten years thereafter. The 1982 census (which reported a total population of 1,008,180,738) is generally accepted as significantly more reliable, accurate, and thorough than the previous two. Various international organizations eagerly assisted the Chinese in conducting the 1982 census, including the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, which donated US$15.6 million for the preparation and execution of the census.\n\nChina has been the world's most populous nation for many centuries. When China took its first post-1949 census in 1953, the population stood at 583 million; by the fifth census in 2000, the population had more than doubled, reaching 1.2 billion.\n\nBy the sixth census in 2010, the total population had reached to 1,370,536,875, with the mainland having 1,339,724,852, Hong Kong having 7,097,600, and Macau having 552,300.\n\nIn 1982 China conducted its first population census since 1964. It was by far the most thorough and accurate census taken since 1949 and confirmed that China was a nation of more than 1 billion people, or about one-fifth of the world's population. The census provided demographers with a set of data on China's age-sex structure, fertility and mortality rates, and population density and distribution. Information was also gathered on minority ethnic groups, urban population, and marital status. For the first time since the People's Republic of China was founded, demographers had reliable information on the size and composition of the Chinese work force. The nation began preparing for the 1982 census in late 1976. Chinese census workers were sent to the United States and Japan to study modern census-taking techniques and automation. Computers were installed in every provincial-level unit except Tibet and were connected to a central processing system in the Beijing headquarters of the State Statistical Bureau. Pretests and small scale trial runs were conducted and checked for accuracy between 1980 and 1981 in twenty-four provincial-level units. Census stations were opened in rural production brigades and urban neighborhoods. Beginning on 1 July 1982, each household sent a representative to a census station to be enumerated. The census required about a month to complete and employed approximately 5 million census takers.\n\nThe 1982 census collected data in nineteen demographic categories relating to individuals and households. The thirteen areas concerning individuals were name, relationship to head of household, sex, age, nationality, registration status, educational level, profession, occupation, status of nonworking persons, marital status, number of children born and still living, and number of births in 1981. The six items pertaining to households were type (domestic or collective), serial number, number of persons, number of births in 1981, number of deaths in 1981, and number of registered persons absent for more than one year. Information was gathered in a number of important areas for which previous data were either extremely inaccurate or simply nonexistent, including fertility, marital status, urban population, minority ethnic groups, sex composition, age distribution, and employment and unemployment.\n\nA fundamental anomaly in the 1982 statistics was noted by some Western analysts. They pointed out that although the birth and death rates recorded by the census and those recorded through the household registration system were different, the two systems arrived at similar population totals. The discrepancies in the vital rates were the result of the underreporting of both births and deaths to the authorities under the registration system; families would not report some births because of the one-child policy and would not report some deaths so as to hold on to the rations of the deceased.\n\nNevertheless, the 1982 census was a watershed for both Chinese and world demographics. After an eighteen-year gap, population specialists were given a wealth of reliable, up-to-date figures on which to reconstruct past demographic patterns, measure current population conditions, and predict future population trends. For example, Chinese and foreign demographers used the 1982 census age-sex structure as the base population for forecasting and making assumptions about future fertility trends. The data on age-specific fertility and mortality rates provided the necessary base-line information for making population projections. The census data also were useful for estimating future manpower potential, consumer needs, and utility, energy, and health-service requirements. The sudden abundance of demographic data helped population specialists immeasurably in their efforts to estimate world population. Previously, there had been no accurate information on these 21% of the Earth's inhabitants. Demographers who had been conducting research on global population without accurate data on the Chinese fifth of the world's population were particularly thankful for the 1982 breakthrough census.\n\nInitially, China's post-1949 leaders were ideologically disposed to view a large population as an asset. But the liabilities of a large, rapidly growing population soon became apparent. For one year, starting in August 1956, vigorous support was given to the Ministry of Public Health's mass birth control efforts. These efforts, however, had little impact on fertility. After the interval of the Great Leap Forward, Chinese leaders again saw rapid population growth as an obstacle to development, and their interest in birth control revived. In the early 1960s, schemes somewhat more muted than during the first campaign, emphasized the virtues of late marriage. Birth control offices were set up in the central government and some provincial-level governments in 1964. The second campaign was particularly successful in the cities, where the birth rate was cut in half during the 1963–66 period. The upheaval of the Cultural Revolution brought the program to a halt, however.\n\nIn 1972 and 1973 the party mobilized its resources for a nationwide birth control campaign administered by a group in the State Council. Committees to oversee birth control activities were established at all administrative levels and in various collective enterprises. This extensive and seemingly effective network covered both the rural and the urban population. In urban areas public security headquarters included population control sections. In rural areas the country's \"barefoot doctors\" distributed information and contraceptives to people's commune members. By 1973 Mao Zedong was personally identified with the family planning movement, signifying a greater leadership commitment to controlled population growth than ever before. Yet until several years after Mao's death in 1976, the leadership was reluctant to put forth directly the rationale that population control was necessary for economic growth and improved living standards.\n\nPopulation growth targets were set for both administrative units and individual families. In the mid-1970s the maximum recommended family size was two children in cities and three or four in the country. Since 1979 the government has advocated a one-child limit for both rural and urban areas and has generally set a maximum of two children in special circumstances. As of 1986 the policy for minority nationalities was two children per couple, three in special circumstances, and no limit for ethnic groups with very small populations. The overall goal of the one-child policy was to keep the total population within 1.2 billion through the year 2000, on the premise that the Four Modernizations program would be of little value if population growth was not brought under control.\n\nThe one-child policy was a highly ambitious population control program. Like previous programs of the 1960s and 1970s, the one-child policy employed a combination of public education, social pressure, and in some cases coercion. The one-child policy was unique, however, in that it linked reproduction with economic cost or benefit.\n\nUnder the one-child program, a sophisticated system rewarded those who observed the policy and penalized those who did not. Through this policy, the increasing population got temperate after the penalties were made. Couples with only one child were given a \"one-child certificate\" entitling them to such benefits as cash bonuses, longer maternity leave, better child care, and preferential housing assignments. In return, they were required to pledge that they would not have more children. In the countryside, there was great pressure to adhere to the one-child limit. Because the rural population accounted for approximately 60% of the total, the effectiveness of the one-child policy in rural areas was considered the key to the success or failure of the program as a whole.\n\nIn rural areas the day-to-day work of family planning was done by cadres at the team and brigade levels who were responsible for women's affairs and by health workers. The women's team leader made regular household visits to keep track of the status of each family under her jurisdiction and collected information on which women were using contraceptives, the methods used, and which had become pregnant. She then reported to the brigade women's leader, who documented the information and took it to a monthly meeting of the commune birth-planning committee. According to reports, ceilings or quotas had to be adhered to; to satisfy these cutoffs, unmarried young people were persuaded to postpone marriage, couples without children were advised to \"wait their turn,\" women with unauthorized pregnancies were pressured to have abortions, and those who already had children were urged to use contraception or undergo sterilization. Couples with more than one child were exhorted to be sterilized.\n\nThe one-child policy enjoyed much greater success in urban than in rural areas. Even without state intervention, there were compelling reasons for urban couples to limit the family to a single child. Raising a child required a significant portion of family income, and in the cities a child did not become an economic asset until he or she entered the work force at age sixteen. Couples with only one child were given preferential treatment in housing allocation. In addition, because city dwellers who were employed in state enterprises received pensions after retirement, the sex of their first child was less important to them than it was to those in rural areas.\n\nNumerous reports surfaced of coercive measures used to achieve the desired results of the one-child policy. The alleged methods ranged from intense psychological pressure to the use of physical force, including some grisly accounts of forced abortions and infanticide. Chinese officials admitted that isolated, uncondoned abuses of the program occurred and that they condemned such acts, but they insisted that the family planning program was administered on a voluntary basis using persuasion and economic measures only. International reaction to the allegations were mixed. The UN Fund for Population Activities and the International Planned Parenthood Federation were generally supportive of China's family planning program. The United States Agency for International Development, however, withdrew US$10 million from the Fund in March 1985 based on allegations that coercion had been used.\n\nObservers suggested that an accurate assessment of the one-child program would not be possible until all women who came of childbearing age in the early 1980s passed their fertile years. As of 1987 the one-child program had achieved mixed results. In general, it was very successful in almost all urban areas but less successful in rural areas.\n\nRapid fertility reduction associated with the one-child policy has potentially negative results. For instance, in the future the elderly might not be able to rely on their children to care for them as they have in the past, leaving the state to assume the expense, which could be considerable. Based on United Nations and Chinese government statistics, it was estimated in 1987 that by the year 2000 the population 60 years and older (the retirement age is 60 in urban areas) would number 127 million, or 10.1% of the total population; the projection for 2025 was 234 million elderly, or 16.4%. According to projections based on the 1982 census, if the one-child policy were maintained to the year 2000, 25% of China's population would be age 65 or older by the year 2040. In 2050, the number of people over 60 is expected to increase to 430 million. \n\nChina is the most populated country in the world and its national population density (137/km) is similar to those of Switzerland and the Czech Republic. The overall population density of China conceals major regional variations, the western and northern part have a few million people, while eastern half has about 1.3 billion. The vast majority of China's population lives near the east in major cities.\nIn the 11 provinces, special municipalities, and autonomous regions along the southeast coast, population density was 320.6 people per km.\n\nBroadly speaking, the population was concentrated east of the mountains and south of the northern steppe. The most densely populated areas included the Yangtze River Valley (of which the delta region was the most populous), Sichuan Basin, North China Plain, Pearl River Delta, and the industrial area around the city of Shenyang in the northeast.\n\nPopulation is most sparse in the mountainous, desert, and grassland regions of the northwest and southwest. In Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, portions are completely uninhabited, and only a few sections have populations denser than ten people per km. The Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang, and Tibet autonomous regions and Qinghai and Gansu comprise 55% of the country's land area but in 1985 contained only 5.7% of its population.\n\nFuture challenges for China will be the gender disparity. According to the 2010 census, males account for 51.27% of China's 1.34 billion people, while females made up 48.73% of the total. The sex ratio (the number of males for each female in a population) at birth was 118.06 boys to every 100 girls (54.14%) in 2010, higher than the 116.86 (53.89%) of 2000, but 0.53 points lower than the ratio of 118.59 (54.25%) in 2005. In most western countries the sex ratio at birth is around 105 boys to 100 girls (51.22%). At the moment there are about 9 million more boys than girls in China.\n\nChildren born per woman from 1930 to 1949. It is based on fairly good data for the entire period. Sources: Our World In Data and Gapminder Foundation.\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nChina's fertility statistics differ depending on the source. According to the Ministry of Health and Family Planning November 2015 announcement, China's 2015 TFR was somewhere between 1.5 and 1.6. \nMinistry of Health and Family Planning:\n\nThe latest data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) seems to contradict this, stating China's TFR for 2015 was 1,05. Although there is a natural margin of error since the NBS surveys only a thin cross-section of Chinese society, approximately 1% of the total population. Fertility according to National Bureau of Statistics (NBS):\n\nIn 1949 crude death rates were probably higher than 30 per 1,000, and the average life expectancy was only 35 years. Beginning in the early 1950s, mortality steadily declined; it continued to decline through 1978 and remained relatively constant through 1987. One major fluctuation was reported in a computer reconstruction of China's population trends from 1953 to 1987 produced by the United States Bureau of the Census. The computer model showed that the crude death rate increased dramatically during the famine years associated with the Great Leap Forward (1958–60).\n\nAccording to Chinese government statistics, the crude birth rate followed five distinct patterns from 1949 to 1982. It remained stable from 1949 to 1954, varied widely from 1955 to 1965, experienced fluctuations between 1966 and 1969, dropped sharply in the late 1970s, and increased from 1980 to 1981. Between 1970 and 1980, the crude birth rate dropped from 33.4 per 1,000 to 18.2 per 1,000. The government attributed this dramatic decline in fertility to the \"wǎn xī shǎo\" (\"晚、稀、少\", or \"late, long, few\": later marriages, longer intervals between births, and fewer children) birth control campaign. However, elements of socioeconomic change, such as increased employment of women in both urban and rural areas and reduced infant mortality (a greater percentage of surviving children would tend to reduce demand for additional children), may have played some role. The birth rate increased in the 1980s to a level over 20 per 1,000, primarily as a result of a marked rise in marriages and first births. The rise was an indication of problems with the one-child policy of 1979. Chinese sources, however, indicate that the birth rate started to decrease again in the 1990s and reached a level of around 12 per 1,000 in recent years.\n\nIn urban areas, the housing shortage may have been at least partly responsible for the decreased birth rate. Also, the policy in force during most of the 1960s and the early 1970s of sending large numbers of high school graduates to the countryside deprived cities of a significant proportion of persons of childbearing age and undoubtedly had some effect on birth rates (see Cultural Revolution (1966–76)). Primarily for economic reasons, rural birth rates tended to decline less than urban rates. The right to grow and sell agricultural products for personal profit and the lack of an old-age Welfare system were incentives for rural people to produce many children, especially sons, for help in the fields and for support in old age. Because of these conditions, it is unclear to what degree education had been able to erode traditional values favoring large families.\n\nToday, the population continues to grow. There is also a serious gender imbalance. Census data obtained in 2000 revealed that 119 boys were born for every 100 girls, and among China's \"floating population\" the ratio was as high as 128:100. These situations led the government in July 2004 to ban selective abortions of female fetuses. It is estimated that this imbalance will rise until 2025–2030 to reach 20% then slowly decrease.\n\nChina now has an increasingly aging population; it is projected that 11.8% of the population in 2020 will be 65 years of age and older. Health care has improved dramatically in China since 1949. Major diseases such as cholera, typhoid, and scarlet fever have been brought under control. Life expectancy has more than doubled, and infant mortality has dropped significantly. On the negative side, the incidence of cancer, cerebrovascular disease, and heart disease has increased to the extent that these have become the leading causes of death. Economic reforms initiated in the late 1970s fundamentally altered methods of providing health care; the collective medical care system has been gradually replaced by a more individual-oriented approach.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the birth rate of 0.9% is lower than its death rate. Hong Kong's population increases because of immigration from the mainland and a large expatriate population comprising about 4%. Like Hong Kong, Macau also has a low birth rate relying on immigration to maintain its population.\n\nAccording to the 2000 census, the TFR was 1.22 (0.86 for cities, 1.08 for towns and 1.43 for villages/outposts). Beijing had the lowest TFR at 0.67, while Guizhou had the highest at 2.19. The Xiangyang district of Jiamusi city (Heilongjiang) has a TFR of 0.41, which is the lowest TFR recorded anywhere in the world in recorded history. Other extremely low TFR counties are: 0.43 in the Heping district of Tianjin city (Tianjin), and 0.46 in the Mawei district of Fuzhou city (Fujian). At the other end TFR was 3.96 in Geji County (Tibet), 4.07 in Jiali County (Tibet), and 5.47 in Baqing County (Tibet).\n\nThe 2010 census reported a TFR of 1.18 (0.88 in cities, 1.15 in townships, and\n1.44 in rural areas).\nThe five regions with the lowest fertility rates were Beijing (0.71), Shanghai\n(0.74), Liaoning (0.74), Heilongjiang (0.75), and Jilin (0.76). The five regions with the highest\nfertility rates were Guangxi (1.79), Guizhou (1.75), Xinjiang (1.53), Hainan (1.51), and Anhui\n(1.48).\n\nTotal fertility rate by ethnic group (2010 census): Han (1.14), Zhuang (1.59), Hui (1.48), Manchu (1.18), Uyghur (2.04), Miao (1.82), Yi (1.82), Tujia (1.74), Tibetan (1.60), Mongols (1.26).\n\nIn 2012, for the first time, according to statistics released by China's National Bureau of Statistics in January 2013, the number of people theoretically able to enter the Chinese labor force (individuals aged 15 to 59), shrank slightly to 937.27 million people, a decrease of 3.45 million from 2011. This trend, resulting from China's demographic transition, is anticipated to continue for at least the next 20 years, to 2030.\nThe CIA World Fact Book estimates the 2012 actual active labor force to amount to 798.5 million.\n\nAs of 2012, the average Chinese man was 167.1 centimeters tall (5 ft 5.8 in) in 2012, the figures showed, and women's average height was 155.8 centimeters (5 ft 1.3 in). The same study showed an average Chinese man weighed 66.2 kilograms (145.9 lbs, or 10 stone 5.9 lbs), up 3.5 kilograms (7.7 lbs) over 10 years, while women were 2.9 kilograms (6.4 pounds) heavier on average at 57.3 kilograms (126.3 pounds, or 9 stone 0.3 lbs). They were up just 0.4 centimeters (0.16 in) and 0.7 centimeters (0.28 in) respectively from 10 years earlier.\n\nThe People's Republic of China (PRC) officially recognizes 56 distinct ethnic groups, the largest of which are Han, who constitute 91.51% of the total population in 2010. Ethnic minorities constitute 8.49% or 113.8 million of China's population in 2010. During the past decades ethnic minorities have experienced higher growth rates than the majority Han population, because they are not under the one-child policy. Their proportion of the population in China has grown from 6.1% in 1953, to 8.04% in 1990, 8.41% in 2000, and 8.49% in 2010. Large ethnic minorities (data according to the 2000 census) include the Zhuang (16 million, 1.28%), Manchu (10 million, 0.84%), Uyghur (9 million, 0.78%), Hui (9 million, 0.71%), Miao (8 million, 0.71%), Yi (7 million, 0.61%), Tujia (5.75 million, 0.63%), Mongols (5 million, 0.46%), Tibetan (5 million, 0.43%), Buyei (3 million, 0.23%), and Korean (2 million, 0.15%).\n\nNeither Hong Kong nor Macau recognizes the official ethnic classifications maintained by the central government. In Macau, the largest substantial ethnic groups of non-Chinese descent are the Macanese, of mixed Chinese and Portuguese descent (Eurasians), as well as migrants from the Philippines and Thailand. Overseas Filipinas working as domestic workers comprise the largest non-Han Chinese ethnic group in Hong Kong.\n\nThe 2010 Census counted 234,829 residents from Hong Kong, 21,201 residents from Macao, 170,283 residents from Taiwan, and 593,832 residents from other locations, totaling 1,020,145 residents.\n\nInternal migration in the People's Republic of China is one of the most extensive in the world according to the International Labour Organization. In fact, research done by Kam Wing Chan of the University of Washington suggests that \"In the 30 years since 1979, China's urban population has grown by about 440 million to 622 million in 2009. Of the 440 million increase, about 340 million was attributable to net migration and urban reclassification. Even if only half of that increase was migration, the volume of rural-urban migration in such a short period is likely the largest in human history.\" Migrants in China are commonly members of a floating population, which refers primarily to migrants in China without local household registration status through the Chinese Hukou system. In general, rural-urban migrant workers are most excluded from local educational resources, citywide social welfare programs and many jobs because of their lack of hukou status.\n\nIn 2011 a total of 252.78 million migrant workers (an increase of 4.4% compared to 2010) existed in China. Out of these, migrant workers who left their hometown and worked in other provinces accounted for 158.63 million (an increase of 3.4% compared to 2010) and migrant workers who worked within their home provinces reached 94.15 million (an increase of 5.9% compared to 2010). Estimations are that Chinese cities will face an influx of another 243 million migrants by 2025, taking the urban population up to nearly 1 billion people. This population of migrants would represent \"almost 40 percent of the total urban population,\" a number which is almost three times the current level. While it is often difficult to collect accurate statistical data on migrant floating populations, the number of migrants is undoubtedly quite large. “In China’s largest cities, for instance, it is often quoted that at least one out of every five persons is a migrant.” China's government influences the pattern of urbanization through the Hukou permanent residence registration system, land-sale policies, infrastructure investment and the incentives offered to local government officials. The other factors influencing migration of people from rural provincial areas to large cities are employment, education, business opportunities and higher standard of living.\n\nThe mass emigration known as the Chinese diaspora, which occurred from the 19th century to 1949, was mainly caused by wars and starvation in mainland China, invasion from various foreign countries, as well as the problems resulting from political corruption. Most immigrants were illiterate peasants and manual labourers, called \"coolies\" by analogy to the same pattern of immigration from India, who emigrated to work in countries such as the Americas, Australia, South Africa and Southeast Asia.\n\nUrbanization increased in speed following the initiation of the reform and opening policy. By the end of 2014, 54.7% of the total population lived in urban areas, a rate that rose from 26% in 1990.\n\nDemographic statistics according to the World Population Review.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\nNo statistics have been included for areas currently governed by the Republic of China (Taiwan). Unless stated otherwise, statistics refer only to mainland China. (See Demographics of Hong Kong and Demographics of Macau.)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee Infant mortality in China\n\nnote: data do not include Hong Kong and Macau\n\n\n\n\nSources:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4578161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4578161", "title": "Dukha people", "text": "Dukha people\n\nThe Dukha, Dukhans or Duhalar (, Tsaatan) are a small Tuvan (Tozhu Tuvans) Turkic community of reindeer herders living in northern Khövsgöl Aimag of Mongolia.\n\nThe name Tsaatan, which means ‘those who have reindeer’ in the Mongolian language, were originally Tuvinian reindeer herders.\n\nThe Dukhan language (SIL International dkh) is an endangered Turkic variety spoken by approximately five hundred people in the Tsagaan-Nuur county of the Khövsgöl region of northern Mongolia. Dukhan belongs to the Taiga subgroup of Sayan Turkic (Tuvan, Tofa).\n\nOriginally from across the border in what is now Tuva Republic of Russia, the Dukha are one of the last groups of nomadic reindeer herders in the world. But as the reindeer populations shrink, only about 40 families continue the tradition today.\n\nTuva became independent in 1921, when Mongolia gained its independence. At that time, the reindeer herders were able to cross the border freely between Tuva and Mongolia. However, when Tuva was annexed to the Soviet Union in 1944, the border was closed. In 1944, Russia was involved in World War II. So the Dukha people fled from Tuva to settle in Mongolia mainly for the following reasons:\nAt first, the Mongolian government repeatedly deported them back to Tuva. In 1956 the government finally gave them Mongolian citizenship and resettled them at Tsagaan Nuur Lake on the Shishigt River.\n\nDukhas live differently from most other people in the world. The Dukha's sense of community is structured around the reindeer. The reindeer and the Dukha are dependent on one another. Some Dukha say that if the reindeer disappear, so too will their culture. The reindeer are domesticated and belong to the household. In many ways they are treated like family members and shown respect. The community's chores and activities are centered around the care and feeding of their reindeer. Dukha communities on the taiga are usually a group of tents of two to seven households that move camp to find optimum grazing for the reindeer. Herding tasks are shared amongst the camp with children at a young age learning to care for the reindeer and keeping them safe. The girls and younger women do the milking and make yogurt, cheese, and milk tea. Young men and women and elders help with herding. A few of the men stay with the reindeer in the winter months, living in the open air with their herds to protect them from wolves and other predators. The men also make and repair their hunting tools and reindeer saddles and carts. Since they rarely kill a reindeer, they supplement their diet of reindeer milk products by hunting wild animals from the forest.\n\nDukha raise their reindeer primarily for milk. Reindeer milk, reindeer yoghurt and reindeer cheese are the staples of the Dukha diet. Only a few reindeer are slaughtered during the year for meat and pelts. \nThe reindeer also provide transportation. Because the taiga area is typically hilly and covered with forest, reindeer are not used for pulling sledges, but for riding and as pack animals. They take the Dukha for daily grazing, hunting, the collection of firewood, seasonal migrations, visiting relatives and friends, and traveling to the sum for shopping and trade. A 1.5 m long thin stick in the right hand is used as a whip. A rider gets on a tree stump and jumps onto the reindeer from the left side with the stick in the left hand, then transfers the stick to the right hand once the rider is mounted.\nThe Dukha begin training reindeer for riding when the reindeer (called dongor at this age) are two years old. Adults are too heavy for dongor, so it is usually the children’s job to train them. Adults ride on hoodai (three-year-old reindeer) or older ones. They regularly ride on zari (castrated males). Special training is not necessary to train the reindeer as pack animals. The male reindeer usually carry loads weighing about 40 kg (88 lbs.), while females carry up to 30 kg (66.1387 lbs.). \nReindeer pelts are used for making winter coats. Bags, mats for traveling, and shoes are also made from the skin. Material for shoes is taken from the skin on the reindeer's shin. \nReindeer antlers are ingredients in traditional Chinese medicine and have been supplied to China since 1975. During the summer, the antlers are cut off. The reindeer’s two front legs are tied to one hind leg to make the animal fall. The Dukha cut the antlers with a small saw. Because reindeer cannot properly regulate their body temperature when they lose their antlers and easily become exhausted, pregnant female reindeer never have their antlers removed.\n\nDukha today continue their nomadic life, moving from one place to another without establishing any permanent settlements during the year. A residential group consisting of several families is called olal-lal (meaning ’them’ in the Tuva language). They usually refer to a specific group by the name of a representative member. Families of the same olal-lal set up tents close to one another (within a few kilometers) and collaborate in livestock herding.\nDukha move to their summer camp in the middle of June. Its altitude is around 2300 m, and there are fresh breezes.Because of the cold climate throughout the year, open grasslands spread across the high steppe. Reindeer cannot handle heat well, so they must be pastured in high plains in the summer.\nThe beginning of August is the time for Dukha families to move down to different camp sites to spend the fall season. When it begins to snow in mid-September, since there are no insects, the reindeer regain their vigor; and the young males are castrated. From the end of September to early October is mating season for reindeer. The gestation period for a reindeer is about seven months. \nDukha usually settle down in the deep forest at an altitude of about 1800 m where they can avoid the frigid winds. During winter camp, people remain in one area for a month at the longest, and then move on to another place, especially when there are wolves nearby. Snow is not an obstacle for reindeer to find and eat moss because they can dig in the snow with their hooves and find moss easily. Several residential groups band together and set out for \"otor\" (the herding of livestock by young men in distant areas). During otor, the reindeer are free to move about and can find moss and grass easily.\nGroups cannot move as quickly to spring camps because they must accompany the pregnant female reindeer. This is the time when weather tends to be harsh, with strong winds, so they settle in a place that shelters them from severe winds. Reindeer give birth between late April and mid-May.\n\nDukha lives in yurts made primarily of birch bark that resembled the tepees of Native-Americans in appearance. A large yurt may take the bark from up to 32 trees to make; a medium-sized yurt is made from the bark of 23-25 trees. An opening of 2–3 meters in height allows access to the yurt. A bag that houses the guardian spirits of a shaman rests in the rear of the yurt. On the right side, the Dukha family will keep its hunting equipment, saddles, tools and utensils. A traditional Dukha yurt will not have a bed, but rather skins covering the ground, upon which the family sleeps. A stove sits in the middle of the yurt.\n\nDukha dress is characterized by hats like those of the Khalkh people, and wide deels (traditional Mongolian overcoats). They wear strong, warm boots fashioned from the hides and sinew of their reindeer. These boots are known for their quality of workmanship and are very expensive to purchase.\n\nAccording to a 2004 National Geographic report, the Dukha believe that their ancestors’ ghosts live on in the forest as animals that give guidance to the living, Dukha people practise Shamanism, a religion based on nature worship. The Shamanistic practices among Dukha people differ from those of other Shamanistic religions in the region. Shaman worship among the Tsaatan people is thought to represent the oldest variant of Shamanism practiced by Mongolian nomads. Not only do they worship their Shaman, whom they call 'Boo', but they have many mystical holy books as well, and use many different treatises in their daily lives, including those for hunting and for calling or banishing the rain.\n\n"}
{"id": "3406972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3406972", "title": "Earth &amp; Sky", "text": "Earth &amp; Sky\n\nEarth & Sky, also known as EarthSky (the still-active website), was a daily radio series that presented information about science and nature. It began broadcasting in 1991. \"Earth & Sky\" was the creation of producers Deborah Byrd and Joel Block, who were also the hosts. They previously hosted the program Star Date that began broadcasting in the US in 1977.\n\n\"Earth & Sky\" presented 60- and 90-second radio spots (called \"modules\") on a wide variety of scientific topics, communicating through terrestrial radio as well as satellite radio and internet radio. \"Earth & Sky\" was aired one or more times daily on more than 1,000 commercial, NPR, and other public radio stations, 80 affiliate stations for the sight-impaired, and across 35 channels on both XM and Sirius satellite radio in the United States. Abroad, the programming iwas heard on American Forces Radio, Voice of America Radio, World Radio Network, and others.\n\nThe information on \"Earth & Sky\" came directly from scientists. The journalists who produced the \"Earth & Sky\" radio program and continue to produce the Website speak to several scientists each day, dozens each week and hundreds each year. More than 500 scientists had joined \"Earth & Sky\" as volunteer advisers. \"Earth & Sky\" science advisers suggested content, gave feedback, recommended other experts, and reviewed scripts for accuracy before they were recorded for broadcast.\n\n\"Earth & Sky\" featured many fields of science. In 2006, it focused was on nanotechnology, women in science, observing the Earth, astrophysics and space, and the human world.\n\nThe final episode of \"Earth & Sky\" was broadcast on June 2, 2013. President and co-founder Deborah Byrd said that although funding options existed to continue the radio program, a decision was made to stop producing the radio show in order to concentrate on the Website and social media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13325932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13325932", "title": "Emigration from Colombia", "text": "Emigration from Colombia\n\nEmigration from Colombia is a migratory phenomenon that has been taking place in Colombia since the early 20th century.\n\nEmigration from Colombia is determined by economic, social, and security issues linked mainly to the Colombian armed conflict. Emigration from Colombia is one of the largest in volume in Hispanic America. According to the 2005 Colombian census or DANE, about 3,331,107 Colombian citizens currently permanently reside outside of Colombia. Other estimates, however, suggest that the actual number could exceed 4 million, or almost 10 percent of the country's population. Approximately 1.2 million Colombians are believed to have left the country during 2000–5 and not returned.\n\nThe population movement in recent years toward North America and Europe in particular has been motivated in some cases by the threat of violence but more typically by the search for greater economic opportunity. Due to the current sociopolitical situation in Colombia, emigration affects Colombians of all social standings and geographic zones. The highest rates of emigration have been registered in the main urban centers of the interior zone of the country: Bogotá, Medellín, Cali, Bucaramanga, Pereira, Manizales, and Cúcuta.\n\nExternal migration is primarily to the United States, Venezuela, Spain, and Ecuador. As of 2003, the estimated Colombian population in those countries was 2,020,000, 1,340,000, 240,000, and 193,000, respectively. Panama, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom also have significant (>20,000) populations of Colombian emigrants. In 2003, North America was the destination for 48 percent of Colombian emigrants; Hispanic America and the Caribbean, 40 percent; Europe, 11 percent; and Asia, Oceania, and Africa, 1 percent.\n\nThe Colombian diaspora refers to the mass movement of Colombian people who have emigrated from the country in search of safety and/or a better quality of life. Many of those who moved were educated middle and upper middle-class Colombians; because of this, the Colombian diaspora can be referred to as a brain drain. However, significant numbers of poor Colombians have also been documented. Colombian officials state that this movement peaked in the year 2000 and that the most popular destinations for emigration include North America and Europe. In Europe, Spain has the largest Colombian community on the continent, followed by Italy and the United Kingdom. Many Colombians are also dispersed throughout the rest of Hispanic America. Mexico, Costa Rica, Peru and Chile received political refugees in the mid-to-late 20th century, and Colombian guest workers in the early 2000s. The Colombian diaspora can also refer to the new wave of Colombian artists who have migrated seeking better opportunities and new, more lucrative markets.\n\nPerhaps the most well-known concentration of Colombians abroad is the Jackson Heights section of Queens, one of the five boroughs of New York City. It is sometimes called \"El Chapinerito\" or \"Little Chapinero\" after a middle-class section of Bogotá with similar architecture and ambiance. More recently, the area of Jackson Heights associated with Colombians has become home to Mexican and Ecuadorian immigrants. Other Queens neighborhoods with a Colombian presence are Elmhurst, Corona, and Woodside. The 2006 American Community Survey put out by the US Census Bureau reports that 80,116 persons claiming Colombian origins live in Queens, while 244,164 are spread out in the entire New York metropolitan area.\n\nColombian restaurants and bakeries are important institutions for the Colombian diaspora. These eateries have popularized formerly regional dishes like the well-portioned Bandeja paisa among Colombians from all parts of the country.\n\nRegions with significant populations\n\nColombians living abroad—1.5 million of whom departed during the economic downturn between 1996 and 2002—have had a positive effect on the balance of payments thanks to remittances to family and friends at home. According to Colombian newspaper \"El Tiempo\", the value of remittances from Colombians living abroad is ranked third as the main source of foreign money in Colombia and has already surpassed the value of coffee exports.\n\nBut external migration to the United States or Europe has represented a definite loss of talent and energy because migrants to the developed world tend to be better educated and in the prime of working life. Some estimates would have roughly half the physicians trained in Colombia during certain years, at great expense to fellow Colombian taxpayers, now working in the United States. Then, too, there are communities (as in Mexico, for example) that have been so drained of young workers that they find themselves dependent on the flow of remittances. Several municipalities in the vicinity of Pereira in western Colombia, hard hit by troubles in the coffee industry and the competition of cheap Asian labor in garment exporting, exemplify the latter phenomenon.\n\nThe Colombian government has developed prevention programs against illegal groups that offer emigration help to unsuspecting people, many of whom are eventually forced into slavery, forced prostitution and human trafficking in foreign countries.\n\nMany talented Colombians have succeeded on the international stage:\n\n"}
{"id": "39045789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39045789", "title": "Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences", "text": "Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences\n\nThe Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences is a specialized fifteen-volume Encyclopedia first published in 1930 and last published in 1967. It was envisaged in the 1920s by scholars working in disciplines which increasingly were coming to be known as \"human sciences\" or \"social sciences\". The goal was to create a comprehensive synthesis of the study of human affairs as undertaken by practitioners of all fields involved in such study. The parameters of what would come to be known as \"social science\" were in many ways initially established and defined by this publication.\n\nThe 's founding organizations included the American Anthropological Association, the American Association of Social Workers, the American Economic Association, the American Historical Association, the American Political Science Association, the American Psychological Association, the American Sociological Society, the American Statistical Association, the Association of American Law Schools, and the National Education Association. It was edited by American economists Edwin Robert Anderson Seligman and Alvin Saunders Johnson. Seligman and Johnson solicited contributions from many of the most known and respected scholars in their fields, and established many links with European scholars in the process. The Rockefeller Foundation, Carnegie Foundation, and Russell Sage Foundation provided initial financial support, and Macmillan was selected as publisher.\n\nThe international network of social scientists developed in the process of creating the would prove especially important during the Nazi occupation of Europe, during which many contributing scholars fled persecution for their ideas. Under Johnson's invitation, several of these scholars would come to New York City and form the \"University in Exile\", a specialized graduate school now known as the New School for Social Research.\n\nThe was last printed in 1967, then in its 16th edition. It was succeeded by the International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences, edited by David L. Sills, and also published by Macmillan.\n\n"}
{"id": "25897509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25897509", "title": "Feudal maintenance", "text": "Feudal maintenance\n\nFeudal maintenance under feudal systems of government, was the money payment to soldiers who fought in the interest and at the command of their lord. Such soldiers comprised private armies, each with uniquely identifiable livery. The system of feudal government under which maintenance was paid was most notably present in the late 15th century.\n"}
{"id": "24815652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24815652", "title": "Frank Matthews (drug trafficker)", "text": "Frank Matthews (drug trafficker)\n\nFrank \"Black Caesar\" Matthews (born February 13, 1944) is a major heroin and cocaine trafficker who operated throughout the eastern seaboard during the late 1960s and early 1970s. At the peak of his career he operated in 21 states and supplied major dealers throughout every region of the country. Although there is more attention paid to other drug kingpins of the era, Frank Matthews is said by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to be one of the most significant traffickers of the time. He led a flamboyant lifestyle, with large sable mink coats, prime seats at major sporting events, luxury vehicles, and regular trips to Las Vegas where he was treated like a king. Matthews would also become known for hosting a major African-American drug dealers \"summit\" in Atlanta in 1971. The attendee list, gathered by DEA surveillance, was a who's who of most major African-American and Hispanic dealers throughout the country; they were all there to discuss how to break the Italian Mafia's control of heroin importation so that black drug dealers would not have to rely on them in the future.\n\nMatthews was born towards the end of World War II in Durham, North Carolina. His mother died when he was four years old and he was raised by his aunt, Marzella Steele, the wife of a Durham police lieutenant. Nicknamed \"Pee Wee\", Matthews was described as bright and curious; nevertheless, he dropped out of school in the seventh grade. He served a year for assault in the juvenile reformatory at Raleigh. On his release, he moved to Philadelphia, where he worked as a numbers writer. He was arrested in 1963 and avoided conviction by agreeing to leave Philadelphia. He moved to the Bedford Stuyvesant area of New York City and became a barber, collecting numbers as he had in Philadelphia. Matthews was now large and muscular; he became both a collector and an enforcer. This gained him the experience and cash he needed to enter illegal drug dealing.\n\nMatthews quickly grew tired of the numbers game after realizing that what he made in a year could be made in weeks in the drug business. He began making plans to transition into the heroin business. In the early 1960s, the main supply of wholesale heroin was the Italian Mafia; Matthews knew he would have to gain favor with someone connected to get a steady, reliable connection from which to base his drug empire. Matthews was able to not only approach but gain an audience before the Gambino family and Bonanno family, both part of the Five Families that have controlled organized crime in New York City since the 1930s. However, both turned the young Matthews down. From his days in the numbers game he knew of \"Spanish Raymond\" Márquez, a prolific Harlem numbers operator. Márquez put him in contact with \"El Padrino\", the New York Cuban Mafia godfather Rolando Gonzalez Nuñez, a major Cuban cocaine supplier, shortly before Gonzalez fled to Venezuela because of an upcoming indictment in the United States. Before fleeing, Gonzalez sold Matthews his first kilo of cocaine for $20,000, with a promise to supply more in the future.\n\nThis relationship would expand into a very lucrative and expansive drug trafficking network. Gonzalez began sending the young drug dealer large loads of cocaine and heroin from South America at fair prices. Matthews expanded on this and, within a year, was one of the major players in the New York drug business. Realizing the need for diversification, Matthews would continually seek out new sources of supply for narcotics, willing to do business with anyone as long as the product was sufficiently pure.\n\nBy the early 1970s, the Matthews organization was handling multimillion-dollar loads of heroin. According to the DEA, \"Matthews controlled the cutting, packaging, and sale of heroin in every major East Coast city.\" For example, in New York he operated two massive drug mills in Brooklyn: one located at 925 Prospect Place, nicknamed the \"Ponderosa\", and the other at 106 East 56th Street. Both locations were heavily fortified and secured, with walls reinforced with steel and concrete and protected by guards with machine guns. Besides controlling the retail sale of heroin, the organization supplied other major dealers throughout the East Coast with multi-kilogram shipments for up to $26,000 per kilogram.\n\nIn 1971, Matthews invited major African-American and Hispanic drug traffickers throughout the country to attend a meeting in Atlanta. The DEA got wind of this and monitored who attended. It was a \"Who's Who\" of major drug traffickers, a testament to the respect Matthews commanded because of his vast drug empire. The topic of the meeting was how to import heroin without the Mafia. Those present decided to build stronger independent relationships with the Corsicans and possibly Cubans. In addition, they agreed to diversify their product to include cocaine, which was becoming available in massive quantities.\n\nThis gathering of major drug traffickers throughout the United States is significant because it represented the changing nature of the drug business. Whereas, previously, the Italians controlled the importing and wholesaling of narcotics, therefore controlling who could and could not advance past them, now others were establishing their own pipelines. Before, the Mafia asserted behind-the-scenes control of the business while African-Americans sold and used the drugs in their cities; now the black dealers established connections and took control of their neighborhoods. This later evolved to include not just black people controlling the business, but also local gangs of black people eliminating out-of-town black suppliers trying to control their neighborhoods from a distance.\n\nMatthews learned this lesson the hard way in Philadelphia. In Atlantic City, the Philadelphia Black Mafia killed Tyrone \"Mr. Millionaire\" Palmer, Matthews' main dealer in Philadelphia, at a \"Club Harlem\" packed with 800 people. No one was prosecuted for the crime and none of the 799 potential witnesses came forward. Three of his top lieutenants in the city were murdered by the Black Mafia.\n\nIn 1973, the DEA was set to arrest Matthews. He was arrested in Las Vegas, but paid bail then disappeared. Others say he fled the scene before the arrest. Matthews allegedly took 15 to 20 million dollars with him and fled the country, and was never seen again.\n\n\n \"Frank Matthews\" name is a favorite choice by dealers to be stamped on bags of Heroin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11253", "title": "Fu Manchu", "text": "Fu Manchu\n\nDr. Fu Manchu is a fictional villain character introduced in a series of novels by British author Sax Rohmer during the first half of the twentieth century. The character was also featured extensively in cinema, television, radio, comic strips, and comic books for over 90 years, and has become an archetype of the evil criminal genius and mad scientist, while lending the name to the Fu Manchu moustache.\n\nSax Rohmer, without any prior knowledge and understanding of Chinese culture, decided to start the Fu Manchu series after his ouija board spelled out C-H-I-N-A-M-A-N when he asked what was the most dangerous competition to the white man. During the time period, the idea of the Yellow Peril was spreading in North American society. Western people had feared that Chinese people would elevate drug hysteria while simultaneously work harder physically and graduate colleges at higher rates. The image of Orientals “invading” Western nations became the foundation of Rohmer’s commercial success, being able to sell 20 million copies in his lifetime.\n\nSupervillain Fu Manchu's murderous plots are marked by the extensive use of arcane methods; he disdains guns or explosives, preferring dacoits, thuggees, and members of other secret societies as his agents armed with knives, or using \"pythons and cobras ... fungi and my tiny allies, the bacilli ... my black spiders\" and other peculiar animals or natural chemical weapons. He had a great respect for the truth (in fact, his word was his bond), and used torture and other gruesome tactics to dispose of enemies.\n\nDr. Fu Manchu is described as a mysterious villain because he seldom appears on the stage. Dr. Fu Manchu always sends his assistants to commit the crimes for him. In the novel, \"The Insidious Dr. Fu-Manchu\", Dr. Fu Manchu sent a young beautiful girl for him to go to the crime scene to check whether the victim is dead. He also sent a dacoit to attack Sir Nayland Smith and Dr. Petrie.\n\nIn the 1933 novel, \"The Bride of Fu Manchu\", Fu Manchu claims to hold doctorates from four Western universities. In the 1959 novel, \"Emperor Fu Manchu\", he reveals he attended Heidelberg University, the Sorbonne, and the University of Edinburgh (in the film \"The Mask of Fu Manchu\", on the other hand, he states proudly that \"I am a doctor of philosophy from Edinburgh, a doctor of law from Christ's College, a doctor of medicine from Harvard. My friends, out of courtesy, call me 'Doctor'\"). At the time of their first encounter (1911), Dr. Petrie believed that Fu Manchu was over 70 years old. This would have placed Fu Manchu in the West studying for his first doctorate in the 1860s or 1870s.\n\nAccording to Cay Van Ash, Rohmer's biographer and former assistant who became the first author to continue the series after Rohmer's death, \"Fu Manchu\" was a title of honour, which meant \"the warlike Manchu\". Van Ash speculates that Fu Manchu had been a member of the imperial family of China who backed the losing side in the Boxer Rebellion. In the early books (1913-1917), Fu Manchu is an agent of the Chinese tong known as the Si-Fan and acts as the mastermind behind a wave of assassinations targeting Western imperialists. In the later books (1931-1959), he has gained control of the Si-Fan, which has been changed from a mere Chinese tong into an international organization under his leadership and, in addition to attempting to take over the world and restore China to its ancient glory (Fu Manchu's main goals right from the beginning), also tries to rout fascist dictators and halt the spread of communism, Fu Manchu knowing them to be major rivals in his plans for world domination. The Si-Fan is largely funded through criminal activities, particularly the drug trade and human trafficking (\"white slavery\"). Dr. Fu Manchu has extended his already considerable lifespan by use of the elixir of life, a formula he spent decades trying to perfect.\n\nDr. Fu Manchu's appearance/Fu Manchu mustache\n\nDr. Fu Manchu’s appearance has been portrayed in both novels and other types of media. The most representative part of Dr. Fu Manchu’s appearance is his mustache. The mustache is also registered on dictionaries, and not only registered as Dr. Fu Manchu’s mustache, but also just registered as a Fu Manchu which shows that the mustache of Dr. Fu Manchu has become an iconic characteristic of him. The Fu Manchu/Fu Manchu mustache is described as a long, narrow moustache whose ends taper and droop down to the chin.\n\nOpposing Fu Manchu in the stories are Denis Nayland Smith and, in the first three books, Dr. Petrie. They are in the Holmes and Watson tradition, with Dr. Petrie narrating the stories (after the third book, they would be narrated by various others up to the end of the series) while Nayland Smith carries the fight, combating Fu Manchu more by sheer luck and dogged determination than intellectual brilliance (except \"in extremis\"). Nayland Smith and Fu Manchu share a grudging respect for one another, as each believes that a man must keep his word, even to an enemy.\n\nIn the first three books, Nayland Smith is a colonial police commissioner in Burma granted a roving commission which allows him to exercise authority over any group that can help him in his mission. He resembles Sherlock Holmes in physical description and acerbic manner, but not in deductive genius. He has been criticized as being a racist and jingoistic character, especially in the early books in the series, and gives voice to anti-Asian sentiments. When Rohmer revived the series in 1931, Smith (who has been knighted by this time for his efforts to defeat Fu Manchu, although he would always admit that the honor was not earned by superior intellect) is Assistant Commissioner of Scotland Yard. He later resigns this post and accepts a position with the British Secret Service. Several books have him placed on special assignment with the FBI.\n\nActors who played Nayland Smith:\n\nActors who played Dr. Petrie:\n\nProminent among Fu Manchu's agents was the \"seductively lovely\" Kâramanèh. Her real name is unknown. She was sold to the Si-Fan by Egyptian slave traders while still a child. Kara falls in love with the narrator of the first three books in the series, Dr. Petrie. She rescues Petrie and Nayland Smith many times. Eventually the couple are united and she wins her freedom. They marry and have a daughter, Fleurette, who figures in later novels. Author Lin Carter later created a son for Dr. Petrie and Kara, but this is not considered canonical.\n\nFu Manchu's daughter, Fah lo Suee, is a devious mastermind in her own right, frequently plotting to usurp her father's position in the Si-Fan and aiding his enemies both within and outside of the organization. Her real name is unknown; Fah lo Suee was a childhood term of endearment. She was introduced anonymously while still a teenager in the third book in the series and plays a larger role in several of the titles of the 1930s and 1940s. She was known for a time as Koreani after being brainwashed by her father, but her memory was later restored. She is infamous for taking on false identities, like her father, among them Madame Ingomar, Queen Mamaloi and Mrs. van Roorden. In film, she has been portrayed by numerous actresses over the years. Her character is usually renamed in film adaptations because of difficulties with pronunciation. Anna May Wong played Ling Moy in 1931's \"Daughter of the Dragon\". Myrna Loy portrayed the similarly named Fah lo See in 1932's \"The Mask of Fu Manchu\". Gloria Franklin had the role of Fah lo Suee in 1940's \"Drums of Fu Manchu\". Laurette Luez played Karamaneh in 1956's \"The Adventures of Dr. Fu Manchu\", but the character owed more to Fah lo Suee than Rohmer's depiction of Karamaneh. Tsai Chin portrayed Fu Manchu's daughter, Lin Tang, in the five Christopher Lee films of the 1960s.\n\nIn the novel \"The Insidious Dr. Fu-Manchu\", Dr. Fu-Manchu sent a young beautiful girl for him to go to the crime scene to check whether the victim is dead. He also sent a dacoit to attack Sir Nayland Smith and Dr. Petrie.\n\nAs an ethnic fictional criminal mastermind, Fu Manchu has sparked numerous controversies of western racism and “Orientalism\", from his fiendish design to his faux Chinese name. After the 1932 release of MGM's adaptation of \"The Mask of Fu Manchu\", which featured the Asian villain telling an assembled group of \"Asians\" (consisting of caricatural Indians, Persians and Arabs) that they must \"kill the white man and take his women\", the Chinese embassy in Washington, D.C. issued a formal complaint against the film.\n\nFollowing the 1940 release of Republic Pictures' serial adaptation of \"Drums of Fu Manchu\", the United States Department of State requested the studio make no further films with the character as China was an ally against Japan during World War II. Likewise, Rohmer's publisher, Doubleday, refused to publish further additions to the best-selling series for the duration of World War II once the United States entered the conflict. BBC Radio and Broadway investors subsequently rejected Rohmer's proposals for an original Fu Manchu radio serial and stage show during the 1940s.\n\nThe re-release of \"The Mask of Fu Manchu\" in 1972 was met with protest from the Japanese American Citizens League, who stated that \"the movie was offensive and demeaning to Asian Americans.\" Due to this protest, CBS television decided to cancel a showing of \"The Vengeance of Fu Manchu\". KTLA television of Los Angeles shared similar sentiments, but ultimately decided to run \"The Brides of Fu Manchu\" with the disclaimer :”This feature is presented as fictional entertainment and is not intended to reflect adversely on any race, creed or national origin.” \n\nRohmer responded to charges that his work demonised Asians in \"Master of Villainy\", a biography co-written by his wife:\n\nIt was Rohmer's contention that he based Fu Manchu and other \"Yellow Peril\" mysteries on real Chinese crime figures he met as a newspaper reporter covering Limehouse activities.\n\nIn May 2013, General Motors cancelled an advertisement after complaints that a phrase it contained, \"the land of Fu Manchu\", which was intended to refer to China, was offensive.\n\nCharacterizing Fu Manchu as an overtly racist creation has been criticized in the book \"Lord of Strange Deaths: The Fiendish World of Sax Rohmer\". In a review of the book in \"The Independent\", Fu Manchu is contextualized: \"These magnificently absurd books, glowing with a crazed exoticism, are really far less polar, less black-and-white, less white-and-yellow, than they first seem.\"\n\nThe style of facial hair associated with him in film adaptations has become known as the Fu Manchu moustache. The iconic moustache is registered in the Oxford Dictionary as a “Fu Manchu\", which is described as a “long, narrow moustache whose ends taper and droop down to the chin\", although Rohmer's writings described the character as wearing no such adornment.\n\nBefore the creation of Fu Manchu, Chinese people in Western culture were usually portrayed as victims in Western dominance. Fu Manchu was a new phase in western culture where, suddenly, Chinese people were portrayed as the perpetrator and a threat to Western culture.\n\nBecause of this, the character of Fu Manchu became for some a stereotype embodying the \"yellow peril\". For some others, Fu Manchu became the most notorious personification of Western views towards the Chinese, and became the model for other villains in contemporary \"yellow peril\" thrillers: these villains often had characteristics consistent with the xenophobic ideologies towards East Asian people during the period of Western Colonialism. But for still others, Fu Manchu was just one of numerous villains of various ethnic origins, and was seen in counter-balance to positive Asian characters such as police detective Charlie Chan.\n\nAfter World War II, the evil stereotype inspired by Fu Manchu increasingly became a subject of satire. Fred Fu Manchu, a \"famous Chinese bamboo saxophonist\", was a recurring character on \"The Goon Show\", a 1950s British radio comedy programme. He was featured in the episode \"The Terrible Revenge of Fred Fu Manchu\" in 1955 (announced as \"Fred Fu-Manchu and his Bamboo Saxophone\"), and made minor appearances in other episodes (including \"China Story\", \"The Siege of Fort Night\", and in \"The Lost Emperor\" as \"Doctor Fred Fu Manchu, oriental tattooist\"). The character was created and performed by Spike Milligan, who used it to mock British xenophobia and self-satisfaction, the traits that summoned the original Fu Manchu into existence, and not as a slur against Asians. An attempt by Britain's Hammer Films in the 1970s to revive the older, malignant Fu Manchu in a handful of films starring Christopher Lee was temporarily successful but did not spread to other films and stories.\n\nIn 1977, Trebor produced a \"Fu Munchews\" sweet.\n\nFu Manchu was parodied in the character of Fiendish Dr. Wu in the 2009 action-comedy film \"Black Dynamite\", in which the executor of an evil plan against African-Americans is an insidious, moustache-sporting Kung Fu master.\n\n\nFu Manchu also made appearances in the following non-\"Fu Manchu\" books:\n\nFu Manchu first appeared on the big screen in the 1923 British silent film serial \"The Mystery of Dr. Fu Manchu\" starring Harry Agar Lyons. Lyons returned to the role the next year in \"The Further Mysteries of Dr. Fu Manchu.\"\n\nIn 1929 Fu Manchu made his American film debut in Paramount's early talkie, \"The Mysterious Dr. Fu Manchu\" starring Warner Oland, best known for his later portrayal of Charlie Chan in the 1930s. Oland repeated the role in 1930's \"The Return of Dr. Fu Manchu\" and 1931's \"Daughter of the Dragon\" as well as in the short, \"Murder Will Out\" as part of the omnibus film, \"Paramount on Parade\" where the Devil Doctor confronts both Philo Vance and Sherlock Holmes.\n\nThe most infamous incarnation of the character was MGM's \"The Mask of Fu Manchu\" (1932) starring Boris Karloff and Myrna Loy. The film's tone has long been considered racist and offensive, but that only added to its cult status alongside its campy humour, Grand Guignol sets and torture sequences. The film was suppressed for many years, but has since received critical re-evaluation and been released on DVD uncut.\n\nFu Manchu returned to the serial format in 1940 in Republic Pictures' \"Drums of Fu Manchu\", a 15-episode serial considered to be one of the best the studio ever made. It was later edited and released as a feature film in 1943.\n\nOther than an obscure, unauthorised 1946 Spanish spoof \"El Otro Fu Manchu\", the Devil Doctor was absent from the big screen for 25 years, until producer Harry Alan Towers began a series starring Christopher Lee in 1965. Towers and Lee would make five Fu Manchu films through the end of the decade: \"The Face of Fu Manchu\" (1965), \"The Brides of Fu Manchu\" (1966), \"The Vengeance of Fu Manchu\" (1967), \"The Blood of Fu Manchu\" (1968), and finally \"The Castle of Fu Manchu\" (1969).\n\nThe character's last authorised film appearance was in the 1980 Peter Sellers spoof, \"The Fiendish Plot of Dr. Fu Manchu\" with Sellers featured in a double role as both Fu Manchu and Nayland Smith. The film bore little resemblance to any prior film or the original books. In the film, Fu Manchu claims he was known as \"Fred\" at public school, a reference to the character of \"The Terrible Revenge of Fred Fu Manchu\" from a 1955 episode of \"The Goon Show\" which had co-starred Sellers.\n\nJess Franco, who had directed \"The Blood of Fu Manchu\" and \"The Castle of Fu Manchu\", also directed \"The Girl From Rio\", the second of three Harry Alan Towers films based on Rohmer's female Fu Manchu character, Sumuru. He later directed an unauthorised 1986 Spanish film featuring Fu Manchu's daughter, \"Esclavas del Crimen\".\n\nIn the 2007 film \"Grindhouse\", Nicolas Cage makes an uncredited comedic cameo appearance as Fu Manchu, during the \"trailer\" for the fake movie \"Werewolf Women of the SS\".\n\nIn 1956, the television arm of Republic Pictures produced a 13-episode syndicated series, \"The Adventures of Dr. Fu Manchu\" starring Glen Gordon as Dr. Fu Manchu, Lester Matthews as Sir Denis Nayland Smith, and Clark Howat as Dr. John Petrie. The title sequence depicted Smith and Fu Manchu in a game of chess as the announcer stated that \"the devil is said to play for men's souls. So does Dr. Fu Manchu, evil incarnate.\" At the conclusion of each episode, after Nayland Smith and Petrie had foiled Fu Manchu's latest fiendish scheme, Fu Manchu would be seen breaking a black chess piece in a fit of frustration (black king's bishop, always the same bit of film, repeated) just before the closing credits rolled. It was directed by noted serial director Franklin Adreon as well as William Witney. Fu Manchu was never allowed to succeed in this TV series. Unlike the Holmes/Watson type relationship of the films, the series featured Smith as a law enforcement officer and Petrie as a staff member for the Surgeon General.\n\n\nFu Manchu's earliest radio appearances were on the \"Collier Hour\" 1927–31 on the Blue Network. This was a radio programme designed to promote \"Collier's\" magazine and presented weekly dramatisations of the current issue's stories and serials. Fu Manchu was voiced by Arthur Hughes. A self-titled show on CBS followed in 1932–33. John C. Daly, and later Harold Huber, played Fu Manchu.\n\nAdditionally, there were \"pirate\" broadcasts from the Continent into Britain, from Radio Luxembourg and Radio Lyons in 1936 through 1937. Frank Cochrane voiced Fu Manchu. The BBC produced a competing series, \"The Peculiar Case of the Poppy Club\" starting in 1939. That same year \"The Shadow of Fu Manchu\" aired in the United States as a thrice-weekly serial dramatising the first nine novels.\n\nFu Manchu was first brought to newspaper comic strips in a black and white daily strip drawn by Leo O'Mealia (1884-1960) and ran from 1931 to 1933. The strips were adaptations of the first two Fu Manchu novels and part of the third. Unlike most other illustrators, O'Mealia drew Fu Manchu as a clean-shaven man with an abnormally large cranium. The strips were copyrighted by \"Sax Rohmer and The Bell Syndicate, Inc\". Two of the Fu Manchu strips were reprinted in the 1989 book \"Fu Manchu : Two Complete Adventures\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1197243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1197243", "title": "Gateway drug theory", "text": "Gateway drug theory\n\nGateway drug theory (alternatively, stepping-stone theory, escalation hypothesis, or progression hypothesis) is a comprehensive catchphrase for the theory that the use of a psychoactive drug can be coupled to an increased probability of the use of further drugs. Possible causes are biological alterations in the brain due to the earlier drug and similar attitudes of users across different drugs (\"common liability to addiction\"). Scientific investigation of the possible causes is considered important for health policy concerning education and law making.\n\nThe concept of \"gateway drug\" is based on observations that the sequence of first-time use of different drugs is not random but shows trends. On the basis of established techniques of longitudinal studies such trends can be described precisely in terms of statistical probability. As to the interpretation of the observed trends, it is important to note the difference between sequence and causation. Both may – but need not – be coupled, a question which is subject of further research, e.g., by physiological experiments.\n\nFrom a sample of 6,624 people who had not used other illegal drugs before their cannabis consumption the overall probability of later use of other illegal drugs was estimated to be 44.7%. Subgroup analyses showed that personal and social conditions, such as gender, age, marital status, mental disorders, family history of substance abuse, overlapping illegal drug distribution channels, alcohol use disorder, nicotine dependence, ethnicity, urbanicity, and educational attainment influenced the height of probability.\n\nA study of drug use of 14,577 US 12th graders showed that alcohol consumption was associated with an increased probability of later use of tobacco, cannabis, and other illegal drugs. Adolescents who smoked cigarettes before age 15 were up to 80 times more likely to use illegal drugs.\n\nLarge-scale longitudinal studies in the UK and New Zealand from 2015 and 2017 showed an association between cannabis use and an increased probability of later disorders in the use of other drugs.\n\nThe role of cannabis use in regard to alcohol use and Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) is not fully understood. Some studies suggest better alcohol treatment completion for those who use cannabis while other studies find the opposite. A recent review of 39 studies which examined the relation between cannabis use and alcohol use found that 16 studies support the idea that cannabis and alcohol are substitutes for each other, 10 studies found that they are complements, 12 found that they are neither complementary nor substitutes, and one found that they are both. A study involving self-reported data from a sample of 27,461 people examined the relationship of cannabis use and AUD. These respondents had no prior diagnosis of AUD. Of the 27,461 people, 160 had reported cannabis use within the past year. At the end of a three year period it found that those who had previously reported cannabis use were associated with a five times greater odds of being diagnosed with AUD than those who had not. After adjustment for select confounders (age, race, marital status, income, and education), these odds were reduced to 2 times greater risk. Another sample of self-reported data from 2,121 persons included only those who had already been diagnosed with AUD. In this sample it was found that those who had reported cannabis use in the past year (416 people) were associated with 1.7 greater odds of AUD persistence three years later. After adjustment for the same confounders as before, these odds were reduced to 1.3.\n\nBecause a sequence of first-time use can only indicate the possibility – but not the fact – of an underlying causal relation, different theories concerning the observed trends were developed. The scientific discussion (state of 2016) is dominated by two concepts, which appear to cover almost all possible causal connections if appropriately combined. These are the theories of biological alterations in the brain due to an earlier drug use and the theory of similar attitudes across different drugs.\n\nIn animals it is relatively simple - compared to humans in clinical studies - to determine if the consumption of a certain drug increases the later attraction of another drug. Rats repeatedly injected with tetrahydrocannabinol - earlier in life - increased the self-administration of heroin (results based on 11 male rats), morphine (study based on 12 male rats) and also nicotine (34 rats). There were direct indications that the alteration consisted of lasting anatomical changes in the reward system of the brain. The importance of these findings for the reward system in the human brain in relation to the liability to the use of further drugs has been pointed out in several reviews.\n\nIn mice nicotine increased the probability of later consumption of cocaine and the experiments permitted concrete conclusions on the underlying molecular biological alteration in the brain. The biological changes in mice correspond to the epidemiological observations in humans that nicotine consumption is coupled to an increased probability of later use of cannabis and cocaine.\n\nAccording to the concept of similar attitudes across different drugs (\"common liability to addiction\"), a number of personal, social, genetic and environmental factors can lead to a generally increased interest in various drugs. The sequence of first-time use would then depend on these factors. Violations of the typical sequence of first-time drug usage give credit to this theory. For example, in Japan, where cannabis use is uncommon, 83.2% of the users of illicit drugs did not use cannabis first. The concept received additional support from a large-scale genetic analysis that showed a genetic basis for the connection of the prevalence of cigarette smoking and cannabis use during the life of a person.\n\nThe results of a twin study presented indications that familial genetic and familial environmental factors do not fully explain these associations, and are possibly only relevant for sequences of some drugs. In 219, same-sex Dutch twin pairs one co-twin had reported cannabis use before the age of 18 whereas the other had not. In the cannabis group the lifetime prevalence of later reported use of party drugs was four times higher and the lifetime prevalence of later reported use of hard drugs was seven times higher than in the non-cannabis group. The authors concluded that at least family influences – both genetic and social ones – could not explain the differences. The study noted that - besides a potential causal role of cannabis use - non shared environment factors could play a role in the association such as differing peer affiliations that preceded the cannabis use.\n\nAnother twin study (of 510 same sex twin pairs) also examined the association of earlier cannabis use and later hard drug use. Like other studies it examined later drug use differences between siblings where one sibling had used cannabis early and the other had not. The study examined identical twins (who share approximately 100% of their genes) and non-identical twins (who share approximately 50% of their genes) separately and adjusted for additional confounders such as peer drug use. It found, after confounder adjustment, that the associations with later hard drug use existed only for non-identical twins. This suggests a significant genetic factor in the likelihood of later hard drug usage. The study suggested that a causal role of cannabis use in later hard drug usage is minimal, if it exists at all, and that cannabis use and hard drug use share the same influencing factors such as genetics and environment.\n\nWhile the phrase \"gateway drug\" was first popularized by anti-drug activists such as Robert DuPont in the 1980s, the underlying ideas had already been discussed since the 1930s by using the phrases \"stepping-stone theory\", \"escalation hypothesis\", or \"progression hypothesis\".\n\nThe scientific and political discussion has intensified since 1975 after the publications of several longitudinal studies by Denise Kandel and others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120873", "title": "Gerald Gainous", "text": "Gerald Gainous\n\nGerald B. Gainous was a resident of Washington D.C. who climbed the fence surrounding the White House four times in 1975 and 1976 during the Ford administration. \n\nIn the first incident, which occurred November 26, 1975, he was able to walk about the grounds without being stopped for about 90 minutes. He approached the President's daughter, Susan Ford, as she was unloading camera equipment from her car, before carrying on. He was freed on probation after that incident.\n\nGainous claimed he was trying to gain the President's attention in order to obtain a pardon for his father who had been convicted of conspiring to import heroin.\n"}
{"id": "2635067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2635067", "title": "Global 500 Roll of Honour", "text": "Global 500 Roll of Honour\n\nThe United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) established the Global 500 Roll of Honour in 1987 to recognize the environmental achievements of individuals and organizations around the world.\n\nThe last Global 500 Roll of Honour awards were made in 2003. A successor system of UNEP awards called Champions of the Earth started in 2005.\n\nSince the inception of the award in 1987, over 719 individuals and organizations, in both the adult and youth categories, have been honoured with the Global 500 award. Among prominent winners are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11578264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11578264", "title": "Habitus: A Diaspora Journal", "text": "Habitus: A Diaspora Journal\n\nHabitus: A Diaspora Journal is a semiannual magazine of international literature and culture.\n\nThe magazine's mission statement begins: \"\"Habitus\" is a Jewish magazine that takes the whole world seriously. Our starting point is international Jewry; but this is only the beginning of a far-reaching inquiry that seeks to capture a profoundly modern viewpoint that is both expansive and inclusive.\n\n\"Habitus\" takes its shape from the elusive concept known as the Diaspora – that untidy mix of longing and belonging, past and place. It represents an experience that is both personal and universal. The Diaspora condition confounds and consumes, even as it touches more and more lives around the globe. This thematic thread will speak to contemporary readers – of all backgrounds – who feel the pull of complex identities and biographies, and who wrestle with what it means to be truly at home.\"\n\nAccording to a feature in \"The Forward\" by staff writer Nathan Popper, \"Habitus\"' \"operating premise is that the relation of Jews to their far-flung homes — in places like Buenos Aires and Sarajevo and New Orleans — has a great deal to tell us not only about Jewish life but also about the modern experience with all its dislocation and movement.\"\n\nEach issue of the magazine is dedicated to writing about a different city, and features Jewish writers alongside leading non-Jewish voices. The journal's debut issue in the fall of 2006 was dedicated to Budapest. The second issue, released in June 2007, is dedicated to Sarajevo. Future issues will include Buenos Aires, New Orleans, and other cities.\n\nSome of the journal's contributors include George Konrad, Aleksandar Hemon, Semezdin Mehmedinović, David Rieff, Ágnes Heller, Peter Zilahy, Courtney Angela Brkic, and George Szirtes.\n\n"}
{"id": "442426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=442426", "title": "Ho-Am Prize in Medicine", "text": "Ho-Am Prize in Medicine\n\nThe Ho-Am Prize in Medicine was established in 1990 by Kun-Hee Lee, the Chairman of Samsung, to honour the late Chairman, Lee Byung-chul, the founder of the company. The Ho-Am Prize in Medicine is one of six prizes awarded annually, covering the five categories of Science, Engineering, Medicine, Arts, and Community Service, plus a Special Prize, which are named after the late Chairman's sobriquet (art-name or pen name), Ho-Am.\n\nThe Ho-Am Prize in Medicine is presented each year, together with the other prizes, to individuals of Korean heritage who have furthered the welfare of humanity through distinguished accomplishments in the field of Medicine. \n\nSource: Ho-Am Foundation\n\n"}
{"id": "21671906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21671906", "title": "Human trafficking in Jordan", "text": "Human trafficking in Jordan\n\nJordan is a source, destination, and transit country for adults and children subjected to forced labor and, to a lesser extent, sex trafficking. Women from Southeast Asia and East Africa voluntarily migrate to Jordan for employment among the estimated 50,000 foreign domestic workers in the country; some domestic workers are subjected to forced labor. Many of these workers are unable to return to their home countries due to pending criminal charges against them or due to their inability to pay overstay penalties or plane fare home. Some migrant workers from Egypt—the largest source of foreign labor in Jordan—experience forced labor in the construction, service, and agricultural sectors. Syrians may face forced labor in the agricultural sector, while some refugee children are subjected to the worst forms of child labor. Men and women from throughout Asia migrate to work in factories in Jordan’s garment industry where some workers experience forced labor. Jordan’s sponsorship system places a significant amount of power in the hands of employers and recruitment agencies, preventing workers from switching employers or receiving adequate access to legal recourse in response to abuse. Some Sri Lankan women engaged in prostitution in the country may be trafficking victims.\n\nThe Government of Jordan does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. During 2015, the government substantially increased efforts to prosecute and convict trafficking offenders, and continued to identify and refer to protection services an increased number of trafficking victims. Authorities also increased referrals of trafficking victims to a government-run shelter for gender-based violence (GBV) victims; as of early 2014, this shelter provided specific care for trafficking victims. Furthermore, in March 2015, the government completed construction of a shelter dedicated exclusively to trafficking victims, and was in the process of equipping and staffing the facility at the end of the reporting period; it was also in the process of drafting a national victim referral mechanism at the end of the reporting period. Though the government improved its law enforcement and victim identification and referral efforts, it did not systematically investigate potential cases of trafficking that involved withholding of passports and wages. Trafficking victims—particularly domestic workers who ran away from abusive employers—continued to face arrest and imprisonment. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017.\n\nThe government has significantly increased law enforcement efforts to combat all forms of trafficking, including those involving the most vulnerable populations. The 2009 anti-human trafficking law prohibits all forms of sex and labor trafficking and prescribes penalties of six months’ to 10 years’ imprisonment for forced prostitution, child trafficking, and trafficking of women and girls; these penalties are sufficiently stringent, but not commensurate with those prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape. Penalties prescribed for labor trafficking offenses are not sufficiently stringent; offenses against adult male victims that do not involve aggravating circumstances are limited to a minimum of six months’ imprisonment and a fine. Jordan’s labor law assigns administrative penalties for labor violations committed against Jordanian or foreign workers, yet these penalties are not sufficiently stringent to deter the crime of human trafficking. The withholding of passports is a crime under Jordan’s passport law, which prescribes six months’ to three years’ imprisonment, as well as financial penalties.\n\nThe Jordanian government continues to make progress in its efforts to proactively identify and protect trafficking victims. The government identified 121 female and 40 male victims in 2014; this represents an increase from 90 victims identified in the previous reporting period. The government referred 122 potential victims to a government-run shelter for GBV victims, a local NGO-operated shelter, and an international organization; this was a significant increase from 46 victim referrals in 2013. In March 2015, the government completed construction of a shelter solely dedicated to protecting trafficking victims; however, it was not operational and a designated budget was being developed cooperatively between the government and an international organization at the end of the reporting period. The government began development of a national victim referral mechanism; in the interim, it continued to shelter victims at a GBV facility and to refer victims to services. During the reporting period, the joint anti-trafficking unit agreed to regularly refer trafficking victims to a local NGO for legal aid; in December 2014, the unit referred five victims as a result of the agreement. In early 2014, the government officially expanded the mandate of a shelter for GBV victims to formalize its assistance to trafficking victims; it could house up to 50 female victims of violence and offered medical, psycho-social, educational, and legal assistance. The joint anti-trafficking unit referred 31 cases to the shelter during the reporting period and demonstrated professionalism and sensitivity when handling trafficking cases.\n\nThe government continued efforts to prevent trafficking. The anti-trafficking committee met twice during the reporting period and its technical committee met 10 times. In April 2014, the anti-trafficking committee published a report documenting Jordan’s anti-trafficking efforts from 2010 to 2014. The government continued to distribute anti-trafficking brochures to foreign migrants at border crossings, police stations, airports, and in the garment sector. The government did not report taking measures to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts or forced labor. The government did not provide specific anti-trafficking training or guidance for its diplomatic personnel. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported its finance department directly paid locally hired domestic staff of Jordanian diplomats posted abroad, in accordance with labor laws and wage rates in the host country. The government did not provide specific anti-trafficking training for its peacekeepers before their deployment abroad.\n"}
{"id": "8426015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8426015", "title": "Index of racism-related articles", "text": "Index of racism-related articles\n\nThis is a list of topics related to racism:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33192003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33192003", "title": "Indri language", "text": "Indri language\n\nIndri (Yanderika, Yandirika) is a Ubangian language of South Sudan.\n"}
{"id": "7006587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7006587", "title": "Internet sex addiction", "text": "Internet sex addiction\n\nInternet sex addiction, also known as cybersex addiction, has been proposed as a sexual addiction characterized by virtual Internet sexual activity that causes serious negative consequences to one's physical, mental, social, and/or financial well-being. It may also be considered a subset of the theorized Internet addiction disorder. Internet sex addiction manifests various behaviours: reading erotic stories; viewing, downloading or trading online pornography; online activity in adult fantasy chat rooms; cybersex relationships; masturbation while engaged in online activity that contributes to one's sexual arousal; the search for offline sexual partners and information about sexual activity.\n\nInternet sex addiction can have several causes according to the American Association for Sex Addition Therapy. The first cause is the neural physiological attachment that occurs during orgasms - reinforcing and attaching the images or scenarios to the addictive behavior concurrently. Secondly, psychological defects like abandonment, unimportance or lack of genuine attachment are sometimes medicated by the instances of sex addiction behavior. Thirdly, the internet sex addict may be using the addiction to balance a legitimate chemical imbalance due to major depression, a bipolar disorder or a manic depressive disorder. The cybersex addict may also struggle with intimacy anorexia since the cyber world feels safer than real relationships.\n\nCybersex addiction is a form of sexual addiction and Internet addiction disorder. As a form of a compulsive behavior, it can be identified by three criteria: the failure of making a decision about engagement in the behavior, obsession with the behavior, and the inability to stop the behavior despite negative consequences.\n\nAdults with this type of addiction, engage in at least one of the relevant behaviors. The majority of reasons why individuals experiment with such forms of sexual expression are diverse, and can be associated with an individual's psychological disorders or issues. Individuals who suffer from low self-esteem, severely distorted body image, untreated sexual dysfunction, social isolation, depression, or are in recovery from a prior sexual addiction are more vulnerable to cybersexual addictions. Other psychological issues that may arise with this addiction include struggles for intimacy, self-worth, self-identity, self-understanding.\n\nThe impact of cybersex addiction may also impact the spouse, partner or others in relationships with the addict. The resulting effects on others may include depression, weight gain and lower self-esteem. If cyber sex addicts have children, their actions may also impact those children (whether they are grown adult children or younger dependents).\n\nThere is an ongoing debate in the medical community concerning the insufficient studies, and of those, their quality, or lack thereof, and the resulting analysis and conclusions drawn from them, such as they are. So far, without repeatable, meaningful, measurable, and quantifiable analysis, no medical community wide acceptably reasonable standards, a definition, have been drawn yet.\n\nHence, internet sex addiction, just like it's umbrella sexual addiction, is still not listed in the DSM-5, which is commonly used by psychiatrists in the United States for diagnosing patients problems in a standard uniform way.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59213030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59213030", "title": "Irshu Bangash", "text": "Irshu Bangash\n\nIrshu Bangash (Born: Irshad Bangash, 5th July 1992) is a Pakistani film industry Director, Music Producer and Media activist from Peshawar. He is known by his first international and multilingual film \"Project Peshawar\" as a Director and Filmmaker under production of Jeans films. The film was shot in three countries: United States, the Netherlands and Pakistan and was filmed in four languages: Urdu, English, Dutch and Pashto. After Project Peshawar film he is also known as the youngest film Director of Pakistan film industry.\n\nBangash worked with NGOs of Peshawar for documentaries and Short film based on Social issues. In 2014 he became an ambassador in red crescent Peshawar. From 2010 to 2016 bangash worked with many bands of Peshawar as a guitarist, director and cinematographer. \"Moez and Irshu\" - a band named after Moez udding Mohmand an Irshu Bangash repecticley, Moez is playing role as a singer, vocalist and composer while Irshu Bangash is making its musics on digital software and with the help of live instruments Acoustic guitar, Electric guitar and live DJ in songs.\n\nHis first official Solo (song) as a Singer-songwriter was \"Khaista Wattan\" - (Beautiful Country) was dedicated to 2014 Peshawar school massacre in collaboration of various Artists, Activists and musicians of Peshawar on 15 December 2015.\n\nThe second popular song was a fusion of an Acoustic vs Sufi music track \"Badshahi\" with Moez Uddin Mohmand, they bring a new style in Sufi and Folk with Acoustics. The lyrics they chose for Badshahi were written by one of the famous poet Khan Abdul Ghani Khan.\n\nThe Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa gifted them free album on their own choice to be recorded on only the lyrics of Khan Abdul Ghani Khan. With first debut Album called \"Latoon da Ghani\"- (The search of Ghani) with Sarmad Abdul Ghafoor a famous music producer and music recordest of Pakistan. Latoon da Ghani Album released in the end month of 2017, having 7 tracks with variety of experimental modern music that never had done before in pashtu sufi rock, Arabic style with acoustics with fusion of folk and pashtu unplugged Qawali with acoustics. \n\n"}
{"id": "29804511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29804511", "title": "Jajmani system", "text": "Jajmani system\n\nJajmani system (Hindi: जजमान from Sanskrit: यज्ञमान) or Yajman system was an Indian economic system in which lower castes performed various functions for upper castes and received grain in return.\n\nThe term \"Jajman\" has its origin in the Sanskrit word \"yajñamān\" (यज्ञमान), which means the \"patron\" who holds the yajna (Sanskrit: यज्ञ, fire worship) which is conducted by the Brahmin (priest) in lieu of Dakshina (Hindi: दक्षिणा, gift). It got converted to \"Yajman\" and finally to \"Jajman\".\n\nAccording to the Jajmani System, there is exchange of goods and services between landowning higher castes and landless service castes. The service castes traditionally include weavers, leather workers, blacksmiths, goldsmiths, barbers, washermen and so constitute groups of artisans serving the community. The landed higher caste \"Jajman \"are the patrons, and the service castes are the \"kameen\" (servers) of the \"jajman\". The Jajmani system is based on the agricultural system of production and distribution of goods and services. It is the link between the landowning high caste groups and occupational castes.\n\nOscar Lewis mentions that each caste group within a village is traditionally bound to give certain standardized services to the families of other castes. While the landowning high caste families receive services from lower castes and, in return, the members of low castes receive grains.\n\nThe terminology of Jajmani System was introduced into the Indian social anthropology by William Wiser. In his study of a village in Uttar Pradesh, he discovered how different castes interacted with one another in the production and exchange of goods and services. It was found that, with some variations, this system existed throughout India.\n\nThe Jajmani System is characterised by the following:\n\n\nVarious studies of the Jajmani system in India have been made. Oscar Lewis studied Jajmani in North Indian villages. Jajmani in Eastern U.P was studied in 1955 by Opler and Singh and in 1955 N.S. Reddy studied this system in North India. Miller studied Jajmani system in Cochin in 1952, and in 1955, Sri Niwas and Bir Singh studied the same system in Mysore District. Sk. C. Dube’s Indian villages are based on his classics study of Jajmani in Hyderabad. Jajmani in Tanjore was studied by though in 1955. In Gujarat Jajmani was studied by steel in 1953. An early study, in 1934, of Jajmani in Punjab was made by darling. All these studies revealed and confirmed the universality of this system in Rural India but they also revealed that there were minor variations in the system from regions to region.\n\nIn Vetti-chakiri and Begar lower castes have only had obligations or duties to render free services to the upper caste community also called as Vetti or Vetti chakiri.\n\nInteractions between the \"oonchi zat\" (upper caste) and \"neechi zat\" (lower caste) are regulated by established patron-client relationships of the jajmani system, the upper castes being referred to as the 'Jajmans', and the lower caste as 'Kamin'.\n\nThis coercive system gave rise to a rebellion of the lower castes against the jamindars in the Telangana region in 1946.\n"}
{"id": "12558523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12558523", "title": "Jewish folklore", "text": "Jewish folklore\n\nJewish folklore are legends, music, oral history, proverbs, jokes, popular beliefs, fairy tales, stories, tall tales, and customs that are the traditions of Judaism. Folktales are characterized by the presence of unusual personages, by the sudden transformation of men into beasts and vice versa, or by other unnatural incidents. A number of haggadic stories bear folktale characteristics, especially those relating to Og, King of Bashan, which have the same exaggerations as have the \"lügenmärchen\" of modern German folktales. \nThere is considerable evidence of Jewish people bringing and helping the spread of Eastern folktales in Europe. Besides these tales from foreign sources, Jews either collected or composed others which were told throughout the European ghettos, and were collected in Yiddish in the \"Maasebücher\". Numbers of the folktales contained in these collections were also published separately. It is, however, difficult to call many of them folktales in the sense given above, since nothing fairy-like or supernormal occurs in them.\n\nThere are a few definitely Jewish legends of the Middle Ages which partake of the character of folktales, such as those of the Jewish pope Andreas and of the golem, or that relating to the wall of the Rashi chapel, which moved backward in order to save the life of a poor woman who was in danger of being crushed by a passing carriage in the narrow way. Several of these legends were collected by (\"Sagen und Legenden der Jüdischen Vorzeit\").\n\nIn the late 19th century many folk-tales were gathered among Jews or published from Hebrew manuscripts by in the \"Revue des Etudes Juives\", in the \"Revue des Traditions Populaires\", and in \"Melusine\"; by Moses Gaster in \"Folk-Lore\" and in the reports of Montefiore College; and by Max Grunwald in \"Mitteilungen der Gesellschaft für Jüdische Volkskunde\"; by L. Wiener in the same periodical; and by F. S. Krauss in \"Urquell\", both series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57583974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57583974", "title": "Kadaiyar", "text": "Kadaiyar\n\nKadaiyar (also spelled \"Kadayar\") is a Tamil caste found in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka. They are traditionally involved in lime burning and pearl hunting. They are considered a subcaste of the agriculturalist \"Pallars\" and are also known as \"Kadaisiyar.\"\n\nKadaiyar is derived from the Tamil word \"kaṭai\" meaning \"low\" or \"least\" and the honorific suffix -\"yar\" denoting people. The name might also be derived from \"kaṭai\" meaning \"to mash\" or \"to grind\" in reference to their traditional occupation as lime burners. In colonial records are they known as \"Kaddeas\", a corruption of Kadaiyars.\n\nThe Kadaiyars belong traditionally to the \"Marutham\" Sangam landscape\".\" They are mentioned in Puram as involved in agriculture and were the landless labours.\n\nThey were one of the earliest Tamils to convert to Roman Catholicism along with the Paravars under Francis Xavier. They were according to Yalpana Vaipava Malai massacred by king Cankili I of Jaffna Kingdom for converting to catholicism.\n\n"}
{"id": "293307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293307", "title": "Kakwa people", "text": "Kakwa people\n\nThe Kakwa people are found in north-western Uganda, south-western South Sudan, and north-eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, particularly to the west of the White Nile river.\n\nThe Kakwa people are a small minority but a part of the larger Karo people, an intermarried group that also includes the Bari, Pojulu, Mundari, Kuku and Nyangwara. Their language, Kutuk na Kakwa, is an Eastern Nilotic language.\n\nThe major cities of the Kakwa people are the Yei and Morobo districts (South Sudan), Koboko district (Uganda), Imgbokolo and Aba, Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Kakwa people sometimes refer to themselves as \"Kakwa Saliya Musala\", translated directly as \"kakwa three hills\" a phrase they commonly use to denote their 'oneness' in spite of being politically dispersed among three countries.\n\nAccording to the Kakwa oral tradition, they migrated out of East Africa (Nubian region) from the city of Kawa in between the third and fourth cataracts of the Nile. First into South Sudan, and from there southwards into Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Kakwa converted to Islam, accepting the Maliki school of Sunni theology in medieval era. They were annexed into Equitoria region claimed by the Egyptian Islamic ruler Khedive Ismail (Isma'il Pasha) by his descendant Tewfik Pasha in 1889. As the British colonial empire expanded into East Africa and Egypt, the region with Kakwa people became a part of the Uganda Protectorate.\n\nThe Kakwa people rose to international prominence when one of their descendant General Idi Amin assumed the power in Uganda through a coup. He filled important military and civil positions in his administration with his ethnic group, and Nubians. He arrested and killed officials from other ethnic groups such as the Acholi and Lango people, whom he doubted. Idi Amin also supplied arms and financed the Sudanese Kakwa people in the first civil war of Sudan. The Kakwa officials in Idi Amin regime were later accused of many humanitarian crimes. After Amin was deposed in 1979, many Kakwa people were killed in revenge killings, causing others to leave the area and fled to Sudan. However, they have now returned to their native areas in the West Nile region of northern Uganda.\n\nFor most of the South Sudanese Civil War, the fighting was focused in the Greater Upper Nile region. After the clashes in Juba in 2016, the fighting largely shifted to the previously safe haven of Equatoria, where the bulk of SPLM-IO forces went for shelter. Accounts point to both sides targeting civilians on ethnic lines between the Dinka and the dozens of ethnic groups among the Equatorians who are historically in conflict with the Dinka, such as the Karo, who include the Bari. Witnesses report Dinka soldiers threatening villagers that they will kill all Kakwa people for their alleged support to Machar and killing Pojulu people while sparing those who they find can speak Dinka. A UN investigation said rape was being used a tool of ethnic cleansing and Adama Dieng, the U.N.'s Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, warned of genocide after visiting areas of fighting in Yei.\n\nThe traditional Kakwa livelihood has been based on cultivating corn, millet, cassava, fishing and cattle. The traditional villages of Kakwa are linked by their lineage, with male forming councils of elders. Polygyny is accepted, and the Islamic traditions are a part of the Kakwa people lives.\n\n"}
{"id": "4916734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4916734", "title": "Karko people", "text": "Karko people\n\nThe Karko are a sub-ethnic group of the Nuba peoples in the Nuba Mountains of South Kordofan state, in southern Sudan.\n\nThey speak Karko, a Nubian language (Sample: \"Ambapo ni kitabu chako?\" - \"Where is your book?\").\n\nMost members of this ethnicity are Muslims. The population of this ethnicity exceeds 10,000.\n"}
{"id": "42190766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42190766", "title": "Kilometroak", "text": "Kilometroak\n\nKilometroak (Basque for 'kilometers') is a festival organized every year on the first Sunday of October to reach out to the ikastolas (Basque language schools) in Gipuzkoa, Basque Country, Spain.\n\nKilometroak consists of walking down a circuit of 5-10 kilometers, one dotted with food stands and entertainment. Participants sometimes represent a certain organization, and the money collected is used to assist the Basque language schools in the province of Gipuzkoa. It also aims at raising Basque culture and language awareness, as well as highlighting community bonds. Each year a different town organizes the event. Parents, teachers and students volunteer and plan ahead to have everything arranged for the day of the festival, and contribute until it is over at dusk. \n\nThe festival is organized by the Ikastola Federation of the Basque Country on a yearly basis in different locations. It first took place on October 16, 1977 (Beasain-Lazkao) along the lines of Josu Ergüin's design, modeled after a similar Californian event. He was assisted in the design by J. Ramon Beloqui and Martin Ibarbia. When other Basque districts followed suit creating their own similar marches, the Kilometroak turned into a Gipuzkoa-specific festival. \n\nThe participation consists of marching for a number of kilometers, paying a voluntary admission to the organization. The circuit features and showcases cultural and sport activities, farmer products, or entertainment shows, such as concerts, theater, or rural sports. \n\nThe sponsors may be individuals, renowned personalities, or entities. Usually tens of thousands turn out, including personalities of Basque art, sports, politics and culture. The funds raised are managed by the Ikastola Federation, who destines a share to the Basque language schools lying on the area where the festival takes place. \n\n1977: Beasain-Lazkao; 1978: Zubieta; 1979: Azpeitia; 1980: Tolosa; 1981: Arrasate; 1982: Hernani; 1983: Donostia; 1984: Errenteria; 1985: Zumarraga-Urretxu-Legazpi; 1986: Deba; 1987: Zarautz; 1988: Irun; 1989: Oñati; 1990: Andoain; 1991: Bergara; 1992: Oiartzun; 1993: Ordizia; 1994: Legazpi; 1995: Donostia; 1996: Elgoibar; 1997: Pasaia-Lezo; 1998: Tolosaldea; 1999: Errenteria; 2000: Azpeitia; 2001: Beasain; 2002: Zumarraga-Urretxu; 2003: Lazkao; 2004: Orio -Zarautz; 2005: Leintz; 2006: Oiartzun; 2007: Bergara; 2008: Irura; 2009: Donostia; 2010: Lezo; 2011: Azpeitia; 2012: Andoain; 2013: Tolosa; 2014: Orio; 2015: Usurbil\n\n"}
{"id": "2999343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2999343", "title": "Kom people (Cameroon)", "text": "Kom people (Cameroon)\n\nThe Kom are one of the principal ethnic groups of the North-West province of Cameroon, where traditional government institutions are very important. The capital, Laikom, is the seat of the ruler, the Fon, and his advisors, the Quifon, who continue to be the most respected leaders despite the imposition of a central Cameroonian government. Vincent Yuh II died in November 2017, Fon Ndzi II is the current Fon of Kom. The Cameroonian government recognizes to some degree the authority of the Fons and local chiefs subject to them.\n\nKom includes most of Boyo division, including such towns as Fundong, Belo, Njinikom and Mbingo. The area can be reached from Bamenda on the so-called Ring Road.\n\nThe elaborate language and rich culture of Kom are very similar to neighbouring groups, collectively known as the Tikar. The Kom language is also called Kom or Itangikom\n\nDuring the 19th century migration in Cameroon, most tribes moved south in search of better economic opportunities. The Kom people, who originated from upper Mbam in Tikari, moved in search of fertile soils. They first settled in Babessi. While in Babessi, their population began to grow drastically, and rapidly. The Fon of Babessi feared a possible attack from the Kom people. He then tricked the Fon of kom (njinnabo I) into believing that the increase in their male population may some day lead to them being overthrown. The fon of Kom believed this and subsequently accepted his proposal to burn all the healthy men in two separate rooms.\n\nAfter the act was committed, the Fon of Kom realized that he had been tricked. The Babessi Fon had built a secret door for his men to escape when the fire started. Unable to bear the loss and betrayal, the Fon of Kom committed suicide by hanging himself. He died without a son. Legend has it that a python appeared and led the people of Kom to their present settlement in Laikom.\n\nThe Kom tribe covers ¾ of the Boyo division. The capital of Kom is Laikom, and it is made up of over 43 villages. The tribe is ruled by a king or Fon (Fondom) and followed by the traditional parliament/legislative assembly ( kwihfoin). His job is to make sure that the Fon’s orders are followed to the letter. Besides the traditional prime minister is the counsel of elders (nchidoh). Unlike any other elderly person in the Kom tribe, this set of people can easily be recognized by the red feather they carry on their hats. After the nchidoh, is the village head. He is somehow also the spiritual leader of the villages. He takes orders from the Kwihfoin and implements them.\n\nAgriculture and trade is the predominant thing done in Kom in other to earn a living. In the field of agriculture, the people produce food crops like, sweet and Irish potato, beans, corn, coco yams. Coffee is the only cash crop produced in Kom. In trade, there are many cooperative unions that help in the marketing of coffee. Many Kom retailers buy stuff from places like Nigeria, Bamenda and Baffoussam. Some buy right from Dubai; to retail in the main towns of Fundong, Njinikom and Belo.\n\nKom society is patriarchal. Males hold the vast majority of power and privilege, while females labour mostly in domestic roles in kitchens and on farms. A man's power and wealth is measured by the number of his wives. Polygamy is a thing of pride. This makes a man with one wife voiceless in a men's gathering. Girls get married as young as 15 years old.\n\nAlthough Kom males hold most of the power in day-to-day affairs, Kom society is matrilineal in matters of succession. In this way, Kom society differs significantly from other tribes of Cameroon. Lineage in the Kom culture continues on the side of the mother and not the father in such a way that when an adult Kom male dies, ownership of his property including his compound, wives and children is transferred to his nephew (son of his sister) and not his own son. The process of matrilineal succession in Kom society is more complex if a deceased male did not have a nephew to inherit his property. In this case, succession is continued on the side of first cousin. As of the late 20th century, this practice is growing obsolete.\n\nKom society also places a great emphasis on respect for elders.\n\nThere are numerous dance groups like the Njang and chonng, which performs in many occasions including funerals. Prince Yerima Afo’o kom and Ateh Bazor are two of Kom’s most prominent folklore musicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "48796773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48796773", "title": "La Mano Dura", "text": "La Mano Dura\n\nLa Mano Dura (\"Firm Hand\" or \"Iron Fist\") is a term used to describe a set of tough-on-crime policies put in place by the Salvadoran government in response to the problem of gang violence. These policies were put in place in response to popular calls for the government to do something about the problem of rampant crime, and have enjoyed consistent popular support. They have come under criticism, however, for the continued high levels of violence in El Salvador and human rights concerns.\n\nGang violence became an increasingly difficult problem for El Salvador in the 1990s and early 2000s, in the wake of the country's civil war. During that war, hundreds of thousands of Salvadorans fled to the United States, many of them settling in Los Angeles. It was in southern California that the two largest Central American gangs, Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) and Calle 18, were formed. After the end of the Salvadoran Civil War, the United States began deporting thousands of arrested gang members. This brought street gangs to El Salvador; the two gangs quickly became the largest criminal organizations in the country. The country's murder rate increased to 139 per 100,000 people in 1995, making El Salvador one of the most violent countries in the world.\n\nIn 2003, President Francisco Flores of the conservative Nationalist Republican Alliance (ARENA) unveiled the Plan Mano Dura to curb the power of the gangs and reduce the homicide rate. Intended to be a six-month emergency action, the policy involved increased police raids in gang-held areas, greater policing responsibilities for the military, and tougher sentences for suspected gang members. Additionally, the policy \"permitted the arrest of suspected gang members on the basis of their physical appearance alone\". In the first year after the policy was put in place, almost 20,000 suspected gang members, many of them young people, were arrested. Up to 91% of those detained were released without charge. In 2004, the Salvadoran Supreme Court of Justice declared the law to be unconstitutional. Despite this ruling, in 2006 President Antonio Saca of ARENA announced the implementation of \"Super Mano Dura\" (\"Super Firm Hand\"). This policy cemented the tough-on-crime approach of the Mano Dura policy and included a series of anti-gang legal reforms, including changes to the country's Penal Code.\n\nThese policies were largely kept in place when the leftist Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN) won the presidency in 2009. In 2010, President Mauricio Funes responded to a series of attacks on bus passengers by suspected gang members by criminalizing gang affiliation and deploying 2,800 soldiers to assist the national police in fighting the gangs. The Anti-Gang Law of 2010 made \"any legal act performed as part of a gang's criminal activity by its members or others on its behalf unlawful\" and established a series of stiff penalties for gang-related crimes and activities, ranging from three to twenty years imprisonment. In addition to gang suppression, the Funes administration put in place a series of programs known as \"Mano Amiga\" (\"Helping Hand\"), which included \"social prevention, law enforcement, rehabilitation, victim support, and institutional and legal reforms\". These programs have come under criticism, however, for being underfunded and ineffective.\n\nOne of the main effects of the Mano Dura policy was an increase in El Salvador's prison population. It is estimated that between 2004 and 2008, the number of incarcerated gang members doubled, increasing from 4,000 to 8,000. This has led to a major problem of prison overcrowding. According to El Salvador's director general of the prison system, as of September 2013 prison overcrowding was at 320 percent. This has led some prisons to be almost entirely controlled by gangs. Additionally, violence between MS-13 and Calle 18 gang members in prison forced the Salvadoran government to separate the gangs into different prisons. This has had a significant impact on how Salvadoran gangs operate. Placing gang leaders and large numbers of members together in prisons meant that gang leaders were often safer in jail than on the street. Access to cell phones has allowed gang members to run their operations from jail. In response to government policies, Salvadoran gangs have formed more hierarchical command structures, become more selective in choosing members, and instructed members to dress in a way that makes them less likely to be arrested by police.\n\nLa Mano Dura met initial success in reducing the country's homicide rate, with a 14% drop in murders in 2004. That success was short-lived, however, as the murder rate increased to 64.7 per 100,000 people by 2006. Murder rates remained well above 2003 levels until 2012, when a truce was brokered between the MS-13 and Calle 18 gangs.\n\nLa Mano Dura has come under criticism both for its perceived failure at reducing violent crime in the country and over human-rights concerns. State security forces have at times been accused of committing extrajudicial killings of suspected gang members. The arbitrary nature of many arrests of gang members has also raised concerns. Furthermore, some critics have been unnerved by the use of the military in police operations, given the country's commitment to keep civilian and military affairs separate following its civil war. Finally, in 2004 the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child condemned Mano Dura. Despite these criticisms and the failure of La Mano Dura to reduce El Salvador's homicide rate, the policy remains very popular amongst the Salvadoran population.\n"}
{"id": "33213124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33213124", "title": "Lama language", "text": "Lama language\n\nLama is a Gur language spoken by the Lamba people in Togo, Benin, and by a few in Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "31190725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31190725", "title": "List of Romanichal-related depictions &amp; documentaries", "text": "List of Romanichal-related depictions &amp; documentaries\n\nThis page cites Romanichal-related books, films, documentaries, and other forms of media documentation and/or depiction.\n\n\n\n\n\nMany of the descriptions in the 19th century are also the product of a romanticized view of Romanichal and other Romani groups, both idealized and reviled by Victorian and early-twentieth-century writers which manifests itself in the works of fiction by many other authors throughout the Victorian Era to the present.\n\nThe earliest literal references of Romanies in England occurs in the 16th century, as Romanies emigrated to Tudor England. However, by the Elizabethan era this was a popular topic of the time, and suggests in his writings that William Shakespeare was influenced by tales or interaction's with the Romanies. As was common at the time Shakespeare referred to Romanies and believe they were Egyptians.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "392305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392305", "title": "Mapuche", "text": "Mapuche\n\nThe Mapuches are a group of indigenous inhabitants of south-central Chile and southwestern Argentina, including parts of present-day Patagonia. The collective term refers to a wide-ranging ethnicity composed of various groups who shared a common social, religious and economic structure, as well as a common linguistic heritage as Mapudungun speakers. Their influence once extended from the Aconcagua River to the Chiloé Archipelago and spread later eastward to the Argentine pampa. Today the collective group makes up over 80% of the indigenous peoples in Chile, and about 9% of the total Chilean population. They are particularly concentrated in Araucanía. Many have migrated to the Santiago and Buenos Aires area for economic opportunities.\n\nThe Mapuche traditional economy is based on agriculture; their traditional social organization consists of extended families, under the direction of a \"lonko\" or chief. In times of war, they would unite in larger groupings and elect a \"toki\" (meaning \"axe, axe-bearer\") to lead them. They are known for the textiles woven by women, which have been goods for trade for centuries, since before the arrival of European explorers.\n\nAt the time of Spanish arrival the Araucanian Mapuche inhabited the valleys between the Itata and Toltén rivers. South of it, the Huilliche and the Cunco lived as far south as the Chiloé Archipelago. In the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, Mapuche groups migrated eastward into the Andes and pampas, fusing and establishing relationships with the Poya and Pehuenche. At about the same time, ethnic groups of the pampa regions, the Puelche, Ranquel and northern Aonikenk, made contact with Mapuche groups. The Tehuelche adopted the Mapuche language and some of their culture, in what came to be called Araucanization.\n\nSome Mapuche mingled with Spanish during colonial times, and their descendants make up the large group of mestizos in Chile. But Mapuche society in Araucanía and Patagonia remained independent until the Chilean Occupation of Araucanía and the Argentine Conquest of the Desert in the late 19th century. Since then Mapuche have become subjects, and then nationals and citizens of the respective states. Today, many Mapuche and Mapuche communities are engaged in the so-called Mapuche conflict over land and indigenous rights in both Argentina and in Chile.\n\nHistorically the Spanish colonizers of South America referred to the Mapuche people as Araucanians (\"araucanos\"). However, this term is now considered pejorative by some people. The name was likely derived from the placename \"rag ko\" (Spanish Arauco), meaning \"clayey water\". The Quechua word \"awqa,\" meaning \"rebel, enemy\", is probably not the root of \"araucano.\"\n\nIt's thought that the Mapuche (Moluche, Huilliche, Picunche, etc) called themselves \"Reche\" during the Spanish conquest due to their supposed pure native blood, \"Re\" meaning pure and \"Che\" meaning people\n\nThe name \"Mapuche\" is used both to refer collectively to the Picunche (people of the north), Huilliche (people of the south) and Moluche or Nguluche from Araucanía, or at other times, exclusively to the Moluche or Nguluche from Araucanía. However, Mapuche is a relatively recent endonym meaning \"People of the Land\", is preferred to be used when referring to the \"Mapuche\" people after the Arauco War \n\nArchaeological finds have shown the existence of a Mapuche culture in Chile and Argentina as early as 600 to 500 BC. Genetically Mapuches differ from the adjacent indigenous peoples of Patagonia. This suggests a \"different origin or long lasting separation of Mapuche and Patagonian populations\".\n\nTroops of the Inca Empire are reported to have reached the Maule River and had a battle with the Mapuches between the Maule River and the Itata River there. The southern border of the Inca Empire is believed by most modern scholars to have been situated between Santiago and the Maipo River or somewhere between Santiago and the Maule River. Thus the bulk of the Mapuche escaped Inca rule. Through their contact with Incan invaders Mapuches would have for the first time met people with state organization. Their contact with the Incas gave them a collective awareness distinguishing between them and the invaders and uniting them into loose geo-political units despite their lack of state organization.\n\nAt the time of the arrival of the first Spaniards to Chile the largest indigenous population concentration was in the area spanning from Itata River to Chiloé Archipelago—that is the Mapuche heartland. The Mapuche population between Itata River and Reloncaví Sound has been estimated at 705,000–900,000 in the mid-16th century by historian José Bengoa.\n\nThe Spanish entered Mapuche territory from Peru. Their expansion into Chile was an offshoot of the conquest of Peru. In 1541 Pedro de Valdivia reached Chile from Cuzco and founded Santiago. The northern Mapuche tribes, such as the Promaucaes and the Picunches, fought unsuccessfully against Spanish conquest. Little is known about their resistance.\nIn 1550 Pedro de Valdivia, who aimed to control all of Chile to the Straits of Magellan, traveled southward to conquer more Mapuche territory. Between 1550 and 1553 the Spanish founded several cities in Mapuche lands including Concepción, Valdivia, Imperial, Villarrica and Angol. The Spanish also established the forts of Arauco, Purén and Tucapel. Further efforts by the Spanish to gain more territory engaged them in the Arauco War against the Mapuche, a sporadic conflict that lasted nearly 350 years. Hostility towards the conquerors was compounded by the lack of a tradition of forced labour akin to the Inca mita among the Mapuche, who largely refused to serve the Spanish.\n\nFrom their establishment in 1550 to 1598, the Mapuche frequently laid siege to Spanish settlements in Araucanía. The war was mostly a low intensity conflict. Mapuche numbers decreased significantly following contact with the Spanish invaders; wars and epidemics decimated the population. Others died in Spanish owned gold mines.\n\nIn 1598 a party of warriors from Purén led by Pelantaro, who were returning south from a raid in Chillán area, ambushed Martín García Óñez de Loyola and his troops while they rested without taking any precautions against attack. Almost all the Spaniards died, save a cleric named Bartolomé Pérez, who was taken prisoner, and a soldier named Bernardo de Pereda. The Mapuche then initiated a general uprising which destroyed all the cities in their homeland south of the Biobío River.\n\nIn the years following the Battle of Curalaba a general uprising developed among the Mapuches and Huilliches. The Spanish cities of Angol, Imperial, Osorno, Santa Cruz de Oñez, Valdivia and Villarrica were either destroyed or abandoned. Only Chillán and Concepción resisted Mapuche sieges and raids. With the exception of the Chiloé Archipelago, all Chilean territory south of the BíoBío River was freed from Spanish rule. In this period the Mapuche Nation crossed the Andes Range to conquer the present Argentine provinces of Chubut, Neuquen, La Pampa and Río Negro. Spain never again attempted to retake those territories.\n\nIn the 19th century Chile experienced a fast territorial expansion. Chile established a colony at the Strait of Magellan in 1843, settled Valdivia, Osorno and Llanquihue with German immigrants and conquered land from Peru and Bolivia. Later Chile would also annex Easter Island. In this context Araucanía began to be conquered by Chile due to two reasons. First, the Chilean state aimed for territorial continuity and second it remained the sole place for Chilean agriculture to expand.\n\nBetween 1861 and 1871 Chile incorporated several Mapuche territories in Araucanía. In January 1881, having decisively defeated Peru in the battles of Chorrillos and Miraflores, Chile resumed the conquest of Araucanía.\n\nHistorian Ward Churchill has claimed that the Mapuche population dropped from a total of half a million to 25,000 within a generation as result of the occupation and its associated famine and disease. The conquest of Araucanía caused numerous Mapuches to be displaced and forced to roam in search of shelter and food. Scholar Pablo Miramán claims the introduction of state education during the Occupation of Araucanía had detrimental effects on traditional Mapuche education.\n\nIn the years following the occupation the economy of Araucanía changed from being based on sheep and cattle herding to one based on agriculture and wood extraction. The loss of land by Mapuches following the occupation caused severe erosion since Mapuches continued to practice a massive livestock herding in limited areas.\n\nLand disputes and violent confrontations continue in some Mapuche areas, particularly in the northern sections of the Araucanía region between and around Traiguén and Lumaco. In an effort to defuse tensions, the Commission for Historical Truth and New Treatments issued a report in 2003 calling for drastic changes in Chile's treatment of its indigenous people, more than 80% of whom are Mapuche. The recommendations included the formal recognition of political and \"territorial\" rights for indigenous peoples, as well as efforts to promote their cultural identities.\n\nThough Japanese and Swiss interests are active in the economy of Araucanía (Mapudungun: \"Ngulu Mapu\"), the two chief forestry companies are Chilean-owned. In the past, the firms have planted hundreds of thousands of acres with non-native species such as Monterey pine, Douglas firs and eucalyptus trees, sometimes replacing native Valdivian forests, although such substitution and replacement is now forgotten.\n\nChile exports wood to the United States, almost all of which comes from this southern region, with an annual value of around $600 million. Stand.earth, a conservation group, has led an international campaign for preservation, resulting in the Home Depot chain and other leading wood importers agreeing to revise their purchasing policies to \"provide for the protection of native forests in Chile.\" Some Mapuche leaders want stronger protections for the forests.\n\nIn recent years, the delicts committed by Mapuche activists have been prosecuted under counter-terrorism legislation, originally introduced by the military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet to control political dissidents. The law allows prosecutors to withhold evidence from the defense for up to six months and to conceal the identity of witnesses, who may give evidence in court behind screens. Violent activist groups, such as the Coordinadora Arauco Malleco, use tactics such as burning of structures and pastures, and death threats against people and their families. Protesters from Mapuche communities have used these tactics against properties of both multinational forestry corporations and private individuals. In 2010 the Mapuche launched a number of hunger strikes in attempts to effect change in the anti-terrorism legislation.\n\nAt the time of the arrival of Europeans, the Mapuche organized and constructed a network of forts and complex defensive buildings. They also built ceremonial constructions such as some earthwork mounds recently discovered near Purén. They quickly adopted iron metal-working (they already worked copper) They learned horseback-riding and the use of cavalry in war from the Spaniards, along with the cultivation of wheat and sheep. In the long 300-year coexistence between the Spanish colonies and the relatively well-delineated autonomous Mapuche regions, the Mapuche also developed a strong tradition of trading with Spaniards, Argentines and Chileans. Such trade lies at the heart of the Mapuche silver-working tradition, for they wrought their jewelry from the large and widely dispersed quantity of Spanish, Argentine and Chilean silver coins. They also made headdresses with coins, which were called \"trarilonko,\" etc.\n\nMapuche languages are spoken in Chile and Argentina. The two living branches are Huilliche and Mapudungun. Although not genetically related, lexical influence has been discerned from Quechua. Linguists estimate that only about 200,000 full-fluency speakers remain in Chile. The language receives only token support in the educational system. In recent years, it has started to be taught in rural schools of Bío-Bío, Araucanía and Los Lagos Regions.\n\nCentral to Mapuche cosmology is the idea of a creator called \"ngenechen,\" who is embodied in four components: an older man (\"fucha/futra/cha chau\"), an older woman (\"kude/kuse\"), a young man and a young woman. They believe in worlds known as the \"Wenu Mapu\" and \"Minche Mapu.\" Also, Mapuche cosmology is informed by complex notions of spirits that coexist with humans and animals in the natural world, and daily circumstances can dictate spiritual practices.\n\nThe most well-known Mapuche ritual ceremony is the \"Ngillatun,\" which loosely translates \"to pray\" or \"general prayer\". These ceremonies are often major communal events that are of extreme spiritual and social importance. Many other ceremonies are practiced, and not all are for public or communal participation but are sometimes limited to family.\n\nThe main groups of deities and/or spirits in Mapuche mythology are the \"Pillan\" and \"Wangulen\" (ancestral spirits), the \"Ngen\" (spirits in nature), and the \"wekufe\" (evil spirits).\n\nCentral to Mapuche belief is the role of the \"machi\" (shaman). It is usually filled by a woman, following an apprenticeship with an older machi, and has many of the characteristics typical of shamans. The machi performs ceremonies for curing diseases, warding off evil, influencing weather, harvests, social interactions and dreamwork. Machis often have extensive knowledge of regional medicinal herbs. As biodiversity in the Chilean countryside has declined due to commercial agriculture and forestry, the dissemination of such knowledge has also declined, but the Mapuche people are reviving it in their communities. Machis have an extensive knowledge of sacred stones and the sacred animals.\nLike many cultures, the Mapuche have a deluge myth (\"epeu\") of a major flood in which the world is destroyed and recreated. The myth involves two opposing forces: \"Kai Kai\" (water, which brings death through floods) and \"Tren Tren\" (dry earth, which brings sunshine). In the deluge almost all humanity is drowned; the few not drowned survive through cannibalism. At last only one couple is left. A machi tells them that they must give their only child to the waters, which they do, and this restores order to the world.\n\nPart of Mapuche ritual is prayer and animal sacrifice, required to maintain the cosmic balance. This belief has continued to current times. In 1960, for example, a machi sacrificed a young boy, throwing him into the water after an earthquake and a tsunami.\n\nThe Mapuche have incorporated the remembered history of their long independence and resistance from 1540 (Spanish and then Chileans and Argentines), and of the treaty with the Chilean and Argentine government in the 1870s. Memories, stories, and beliefs, often very local and particularized, are a significant part of the Mapuche traditional culture. To varying degrees, this history of resistance continues to this day amongst the Mapuche. At the same time, a large majority of Mapuche in Chile identify with the state as Chilean, similar to a large majority in Argentina identifying as Argentines.\n\n\"We Tripantu\" is the Mapuche New Year celebration.\n\nOne of the best-known arts of the Mapuche is their textiles. The oldest data on textiles in the southernmost areas of the American continent (southern Chile and Argentina today) are found in some archaeological excavations, such as those of Pitrén Cemetery near the city of Temuco, and the Alboyanco site in the Biobío Region, both of Chile; and the Rebolledo Arriba Cemetery in Neuquén Province (Argentina). researchers have found evidence of fabrics made with complex techniques and designs, dated to between AD 1300-1350.\n\nThe Mapuche women were responsible for spinning and weaving. Knowledge of both weaving techniques and textile patterns particular to the locality were usually transmitted within the family, with mothers, grandmothers, and aunts teaching a girl the skills they had learned from their own elders. Women who excelled in the textile arts were highly honored for their accomplishments and contributed economically and culturally to their kinship group. A measure of the importance of weaving is evident in the expectation that a man give a larger dowry for a bride who was an accomplished weaver.\n\nIn addition, the Mapuche used their textiles as an important surplus and an exchange trading good. Numerous 16th-century accounts describe their bartering the textiles with other indigenous peoples, and with colonists in newly developed settlements. Such trading enabled the Mapuche to obtain those goods that they did not produce or held in high esteem, such as horses. Tissue volumes made by Aboriginal women and marketed in the Araucanía and the north of the Patagonia Argentina were really considerable and constitute a vital economic resource for indigenous families. The production of fabrics in the time before European settlement was clearly intended for uses beyond domestic consumption.\n\nAt present, the fabrics woven by the Mapuche continue to be used for domestic purposes, as well as for gift, sale or barter. Most Mapuche women and their families now wear garments with foreign designs and tailored with materials of industrial origin, but they continue to weave ponchos, blankets, bands and belts for regular use. Many of the fabrics are woven for trade, and in many cases, are an important source of income for families. Glazed pots are used to dye the wool. Many Mapuche women continue to weave fabrics according to the customs of their ancestors and transmit their knowledge in the same way: within domestic life, from mother to daughter, and from grandmothers to granddaughters. This form of learning is based on gestural imitation, and only rarely, and when strictly necessary, the apprentice receives explicit instructions or help from their instructors. Knowledge is transmitted as fabric is woven, the weaving and transmission of knowledge go together.\n\n\"Clava\" is a traditional stone hand-club used by the Mapuche. It has a long flat body. Its full name is \"clava mere okewa\"; in Spanish, it's known as \"clava cefalomorfa\". It has some ritual importance as a special sign of distinction carried by tribal chiefs. Many kinds of clavas are known.\n\nThis is an object associated with masculine power. It consists of a disk with attached handle; the edge of the disc usually has a semicircular recess. In many cases, the face portrayed on the disc carries incised designs. The handle is cylindrical, generally with a larger diameter at its connection to the disk.\n\nIn the later half of the 18th century Mapuche silversmithing began to produce large amounts of silver finery. The surge of silversmithing activity may be related to the 1726 parliament of Negrete that decreased hostilities between Spaniards and Mapuches and allowed trade to increase between colonial Chile and the free Mapuches. In this context of increasing trade Mapuches began in the late 18th century to accept payments in silver coins for their products; usually cattle or horses. These coins and silver coins obtained in political negotiations served as raw material for Mapuche metalsmiths (Mapudungun: \"rüxafe\"). Old Mapuche silver pendants often included unmelted silver coins, something that has helped modern researchers to date the objects. The bulk of the Spanish silver coins originated from mining in Potosí in Upper Peru.\n\nThe great diversity in silver finery designs is due to the fact that designs were made to be identified with different \"reynma\" (families), \"lof mapu\" (lands) as well as specific lonkos and machis. Mapuche silver finery was also subject to changes in fashion albeit designs associated with philosophical and spiritual concepts have not undergone major changes.\n\nIn the late 18th century and early 19th century Mapuche silversmithing activity and artistic diversity reached it climax. All important Mapuche chiefs of the 19th century are supposed to have had at least one silversmith. By 1984 Mapuche scholar Carlos Aldunate noted that there were no silversmiths alive among contemporary Mapuches.\n\nThe Mapuche culture of the 16th century had an oral tradition and lacked a writing system. Since that time, a writing system for Mapudungun was developed, and Mapuche writings in both Spanish and Mapudungun have flourished. Contemporary Mapuche literature can be said to be composed of an oral tradition and Spanish-Mapudungun bilingual writings. Notable Mapuche poets include Sebastián Queupul, Pedro Alonzo, Elicura Chihuailaf and Leonel Lienlaf.\n\nAmong the Mapuche in La Araucanía, in addition to heterosexual female \"machi\" shamanesses, there are homosexual male \"machi weye\" shamans, who wear female clothing. These machi weye were first described in Spanish in a chronicle of 1673 A.D. Among the Mapuche, \"the spirits are interested in machi's gendered discourses and performances, not in the sex under the machi's clothes.\" In attracting the filew (possessing-spirit), \"Both male and female \"machi\" become spiritual brides who seduce and call their \"filew\" -- at once husband and master -- to possess their heads ... . ... The ritual transvestism of male \"machi\" ... draws attention to the relational gender categories of spirit husband and \"machi\" wife as a couple (\"kurewen\").\" As concerning \"co-gendered identities\" of \"\"machi\" as co-gender specialists\", it has been speculated that \"female berdaches\" may have formerly existed among the Mapuche.\n\nFollowing the independence of Chile in the 1810s, the Mapuche began to be perceived as Chilean by other Chileans, contrasting with previous perceptions of them as a separate people or nation. Around the time of the Occupation of Araucanía (1861–1883) Mapuches were seen as \"primordial\" Chileans contrasting with other indigenous peoples in Chile like the Aymara who were perceived in Chile as a \"foreign element\". 19th century Argentine writer and president Domingo Faustino Sarmiento presented his view of the Mapuche-Chile relation by stating:\nBetween two Chilean provinces (Concepción and Valdivia) there is a piece of land that is not a province, its language is different, it is inhabited by other people and it can still be said that it is not part of Chile. Yes, Chile is the name of the country over where its flag waves and its laws are obeyed.\n\nThere are various recorded instances in the 19th century when Mapuches were the subject of civilizing mission discourses by elements of Chilean government and military. For example, Cornelio Saavedra Rodríguez called in 1861 for Mapuches to submit to Chilean state authority and \"enter into reduction and civilization\". When the Mapuches were finally defeated in 1883 president Domingo Santa María declared:The country has with satisfaction seen the problem of the reduction of the whole Araucanía solved. This event, so important to our social and political life, and so significant for the future of the republic, has ended, happily and with costly and painful sacrifices. Today the whole Araucanía is subjugated, more than to the material forces, to the moral and civilizing force of the republic...\n\nContemporary attitudes towards Mapuches on the part of non-indigenous people in Chile are highly individual and heterogeneous. Nevertheless, a considerable part of the non-indigenous people in Chile have a prejudiced and discriminatory attitude towards Mapuche. In a 2003 study it was found that among the sample 41% of people over 60 years old, 35% of people of low socio-economic standing, 35% of the supporters of right-wing parties, 36% of Protestants and 26% of Catholics were prejudiced against indigenous peoples in Chile. In contrast, only 8% of those who attended university, 16% of supporters of left-wing parties and 19% of people aged 18–29 were prejudiced. Sociologist Éric Fassin has called the occurrence of Mapuche domestic workers () a continuation of colonial relations of servitude.\n\nHistorian Gonzalo Vial claims that the Republic of Chile owes a \"historical debt\" to the Mapuche. The Coordinadora Arauco-Malleco claims to have the goal of a \"national liberation\" of Mapuche, with their regaining sovereignty over their own lands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35790264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35790264", "title": "Menyam language", "text": "Menyam language\n\nThe Menyam language, Bamenyam, is a Grassfields language of Cameroon.\n"}
{"id": "44872343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44872343", "title": "Middle Australia", "text": "Middle Australia\n\nThe term \"Middle Australian\" is a socio-political term which generally refers to middle class or lower-middle class Australian people who hold traditional or right-wing views. As such, it does not refer to the geographical middle of the country, by rather to the socio-economic middle (as is also the primary meaning of the monikers \"Middle America\" or \"Middle England\"). \n"}
{"id": "55909157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55909157", "title": "Moroccans in Denmark", "text": "Moroccans in Denmark\n\nMoroccans in Denmark are citizens and residents of Denmark who are of Moroccan descent.\n\nAccording to Statistics Denmark, as of 2017, there are a total 11,273 persons of Moroccan origin living in Denmark. Of those individuals, 5,717 are Morocco-born immigrants and 5,556 are descendants of Morocco-born persons. 2,811 individuals are citizens of Morocco (1,227 men, 1,584 women). As of 2016, a total of 77 Morocco-born persons have been granted residence permits in Denmark for family reunification, 19 for study, 144 for work, and 7 for EU/EEA residing family members. Moroccan residents are generally young and middle-aged adults, with most belonging to the 15-19 years (1,054 individuals), 20-24 years (964 individuals), 40-44 years (954 individuals), and 35-39 years (933 individuals) age groups.\n\nAccording to Statistics Denmark, as of 2016, among Morocco-born adults aged 30-59 in Denmark, around 34% of men and 49% of women live full-time in public housing units. Moroccans primarily inhabit the regions of Hovedstaden (9,007), Midtjylland (906), Sjælland (785), Syddanmark (463), and Nordjylland (112), and the cities of Copenhagen (5,307), Aarhus (654), Brøndby (520), and Albertslund (308).\n\nAccording to Statistics Denmark, as of 2017, a total of 3,446 persons of Moroccan origin in Denmark received public benefits. Of these individuals, the government funds were primarily allocated toward the Danish State Education Grant and Loan Scheme Authority (1,013 persons), social benefits (927 persons), disability pension (554), net unemployment (370 persons), subsidized employment (148 persons), job-based sickness benefits (140 persons), maternity benefits (140 persons), guidance and activities upgrading skills (115 persons), early retirement pay (25 persons), and persons receiving holiday benefits (12 persons).\n\nAccording to Statistics Denmark, Moroccan migrants and their descendants are over-represented as perpetrators of crime. Male Moroccan descendants are about 15 times more likely to commit violent crime. As of 2016, Morocco-born male immigrants in Denmark aged 15-79 have a total crime index of 145 when adjusted for age only, with adjustments of 129 for age and socioeconomic status, 129 for age and family education, and 116 when for age and family income. Their male descendants have a total crime index of 305 when adjusted for age only, with adjustments of 286 for age and socioeconomic status, 240 for age and family education, and 256 for age and family income. With regard to type of infringement, the male descendants of Morocco-born individuals have a penal code crime index of 444 when adjusted for age only (with adjustments of 355 for age and socioeconomic status, 278 age and family education, and 288 for age and family income), of which the crime index when adjusted for age only is 356 for violent offences (with adjustments of 289 for age and socioeconomic status, 215 age and family education, and 229 for age and family income) and 417 for property offences (with adjustments of 332 for age and socioeconomic status, 262 age and family education, and 265 for age and family income). The crime index when adjusted for age only is 280 for traffic law (with adjustments of 278 for age and socioeconomic status, 237 for age and family education, and 259 for age and family income) and 349 for special laws (with adjustments of 314 for age and socioeconomic status, 266 age and family education, and 279 for age and family income). The average crime index among the general Danish population is set at 100 and percentage points above or below that baseline reflect greater or lesser prevalence, depending on a population's most common age group and its relative socioeconomic status. As of 2016, a total of 642 persons of Moroccan origin were found guilty of crimes. Of these individuals, 560 were males and 82 were females, with males between the ages of 15-29 years (285 individuals) and 30-49 years (218 individuals) constituting most of the total. The most common types of offences were violations of traffic law (312 individuals, of which 283 breached the Road Traffic Act), followed by violations of special laws (244 individuals, of which 109 breached the Euphoriants Act) and the penal code (191 individuals, of which 121 made offences against property). Most of the persons received a fine (488 individuals), with the remainder given unsuspended imprisonment (71 individuals), suspended imprisonment (65 individuals), withdrawal of charges (10 individuals), preventive measures (5 individuals), other decisions (2 individuals), or no charges (1 individual).\n\nAccording to Statistics Denmark, as of 2014, Morocco-born immigrants aged 30-64 in Denmark have an employment rate of approximately 48.6%.\n\nAccording to the Institute of Labor Economics, as of 2014, Morocco-born residents in Denmark have an employment population ratio of about 46%. They also have an unemployment rate of roughly 13%.\n\n"}
{"id": "3634100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634100", "title": "Mythopoetic men's movement", "text": "Mythopoetic men's movement\n\nThe mythopoetic men's movement is a term used to describe organized group self-help activities for men undertaken by various organizations and authors in the United States from the early 1980s through the 1990s. The purpose of these activities was to foster greater understanding of the forces, such as industrialization, influencing the roles of men in modern society and how these changes affect behavior, self awareness and identity. The group activities used in the movement were largely influenced by ideas derived from Jungian psychology, e.g., Jungian archetypes, from which the use of myths and fairy tales taken from various cultures served as ways to interpret challenges facing men in society.\nGroups formed during the mythopoetic men's movement typically avoided political and social advocacy in favor of therapeutic workshops and wilderness retreats, often performing Native American rituals such as drumming, chanting, and sweat lodges. These rituals were organized to facilitate the personal growth of participants (most often middle-class, middle-aged males) with an intended purpose of connecting spiritually with a lost, \"deep\" masculine identity or inner self. The most well-known text of the movement was \"\" by the poet Robert Bly, who argued that \"male energy\" had been diluted through modern social institutions such as industrialization, separation of fathers from family life through working outside the home, and the feminist movement. Bly urged men to recover a pre-industrial conception of masculinity through spiritual camaraderie with other men in male-only gatherings.\n\nThe term \"mythopoetic\" was coined by professor Shepherd Bliss in preference to the term \"New Age men's movement\". Mythopoets adopted a general style of psychological self-help inspired by the work of Robert Bly, Robert A. Johnson, Joseph Campbell, and other Jungian authors.\n\nSometimes mistakenly referred to simply as the men's movement, which is much broader, the mythopoetic movement is best known for the rituals that take place during their gatherings. While most in the public eye during the early 1990s, the movement carries on more quietly in The ManKind Project and independent psychologico-spiritual practitioners.\n\nAccording to sociologist Michael Messner, mythopoets believe that the rise of the urban industrial society \"trapped men into straitjackets of rationality, thus blunting the powerful emotional communion and collective spiritual transcendence that they believe men in tribal societies typically enjoyed\". The movement seeks to restore the \"deep masculine\" to men who have lost it in their more modern lifestyles.\n\nOther causes claimed by advocates for the loss of the \"deep masculine\" include:\n\nThe mythopoetic men's movement spawned a variety of self-help groups and workshops, led by authors such as Robert Bly, Michael J. Meade and Robert L. Moore. Among its most famous advocates was the poet Bly, whose book \"\" (1990) spent 62 weeks on The New York Times Best Seller list, being an exegesis of the tale of \"Iron John\" collected by the Brothers Grimm. Groups of men from the professional class retreated from their female loved ones in order to join in spiritual rituals that emphasized homosociality, with the central goal of reclaiming the parts of their masculinity that they had lost called the \"deep masculine.\"\n\nIn the mythopoetic movement, the desire to be spiritual and yet manly is also a factor in the way the group understands the nature of gender and relationships between the sexes. The mythopoetic movement tends to regard gender as biological realities, \"hardwired\" into the psyches of men and women. This gender essentialism is consistent with the Jungian philosophy undergirding the movement. Mythopoetic men thus speak of the need to recover \"deep masculinity,\" to distinguish what they regard as genuine or mature masculinity from the problematic toxic masculinity of immature males.\n\nBecause most men no longer perform masculine rituals, mythopoets assert that men have mutated into destructive, hypermasculine chauvinists, or, in the opposite direction, have become too feminized. The mythopoetic men performed rituals at these gatherings, which were meant to imitate those performed by tribal societies when men initiated boys into a deeply essential natural manhood. The movement emphasized the importance of including multiple generations of men in the rituals, so that the men could learn about masculinity from those who were older and wiser.\n\nCharacteristic of the early mythopoetic movement was a tendency to retell myths, legends and folktales, and engage in their exegesis as a tool for personal insight. Using frequent references to archetypes as drawn from Jungian analytical psychology, the movement focused on issues of gender role, gender identity and wellness for the modern man (and woman). Advocates would often engage in storytelling with music, these acts being seen as a modern extension to a form of \"new age shamanism\" popularized by Michael Harner at approximately the same time. The movement sought to empower men by means of equating archetypal characters with their own emotions and abilities. For instance, Michael Messner describes the concept of \"Zeus energy\" as emphasizing \"male authority accepted for the good of the community\". Beliefs about the emotional system based in archetypes of great men, mythopoets sought to channel these characters in themselves, so that they could unleash their \"animal-males\". This group primarily analyzed the archetypes of King, Warrior, Magician, Lover and Wildman.\n\nSome academic work came from the movement, as well as the creation of various magazines, continuing annual conferences based on Robert Bly's vision for creative communities such as Minnesota Men's Conference and the Great Mother and New Father Conference, and non-profit organizations doing related work like the ManKind Project and Micheal Meade's Mosaic Multicultural Foundation. Mythopoetic practices among women's groups and feminists were more commonly seen as part of a more general \"women's spirituality\".\n\nAs a self-help movement the mythopoetic movement tends not to take explicit stances on political issues such as feminism, gay rights or family law (such as the issues of divorce, domestic violence or child custody), preferring instead to stay focused on emotional and psychological well-being. Because of this neutrality, the movement became a site of social criticism by feminists, and was often characterized as anti-intellectual as well as apolitical.\n\nThe sociologist Michael Messner once gave a speech at a gathering, in which he addressed the dangers of celebrating the warrior, as instances of rape are higher in countries that glorify war. The mythopoets responded that they were not interested in intellectual or political pursuits, but were primarily concerned with conducting spiritual and emotional work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27594089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27594089", "title": "Nande language", "text": "Nande language\n\nNande, also known as \"(Oru)Ndandi\" and Yira, is a Bantu language spoken in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. \n\nThe Nande of Congo and the Konjo people of Uganda are a single ethnic group, which they call Yira (Bayira). They trace their origins to the Ruwenzori Mountains between the two countries. The languages Nande and Konjo are close enough to be considered divergent dialects. Nande has a number of dialects of its own: Nande proper, Kumbule, Mate, Tangi, Sanza, Shu, Songola (\"Songoora,\" Nyangala), Swaga / Kira (in Nande, all of these are prefixed with \"eki-\"). \n\nFor the varieties of this language known as Shu we are given the information that another language, \"EkiShukaali\" was formerly spoken by the women, the \"AvaShukaali\". This may be a specific reference to some kind of \"secret jargon\" into which the girls, and not boys, were initiated. \n\nSome of the Nande of Congo have a patron–vassal relationship with the Efé Pygmies.\n\n"}
{"id": "9744337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9744337", "title": "Omorashi", "text": "Omorashi\n\n, sometimes abbreviated as simply \"omo\", is a form of urolagnia (urine fetish) subculture originating and predominately recognized in Japan, in which participants experience arousal from having a full bladder or wetting themselves, or from seeing someone else experiencing a full bladder or wetting themselves. Outside Japan, it is not usually distinguished from urolagnia, though they are different things. Westerners who do make the distinction commonly use phrases such as \"bladder desperation\" or \"panty wetting\", although a number of fetishist communities in the West have also adopted the more specific Japanese language terminology. The term \"omorashi\" means \"to wet oneself\", literally translated, \"leaking\". The word is also occasionally romanized as \"omorasi\" in the Kunrei-shiki romanization system.\n\nMost fetish activities concerning the use of bodily waste are considered by the general public as \"hardcore\", taboo, or edgeplay. However, because the object of the fetish is clothed incontinence, omorashi videos do not necessarily feature direct sexual contact. The focus on clothed (rather than overtly sexual images) makes garment fetishism a prominent feature in most omorashi erotica: commonly featured outfits include those worn by schoolgirls, working professionals, and other people attempting to look dignified before succumbing to the need to urinate.\n\nThere are many ways in which omorashi fetishism is practiced in Japan.\n\nOne of the variations is known as \"omorashi yagai\", which translates as \"to wet oneself outdoors (or publicly).\" A further variation includes \"yagai hōnyō\", or \"outdoor (or public) urination\", in which the subject publicly removes their clothes to urinate. Other \"yagai hōnyō\" practitioners operate much like graffiti artists, attempting public urination acts without being caught.\n\nAnother variation of omorashi play is \"omutsu omorashi\" or \"omutsu play (おむつ·プレイ)\" , less commonly called \"oshime omorashi\", both of which translate as \"to wet oneself in a diaper.\" This omutsu variation is essentially the same as the standard omorashi, except that the participants are wearing a diaper. Diapers may be favorable for public wetting because they render it more discreet and eliminate mess, and their use is not limited specifically to those with a diaper fetish. However, omorashi fetishists specifically interested in this aspect of the subculture could be considered a Japanese variation of the diaper lover community.\n\nJapanese acceptance of adult diaper use is comparatively high, with the market for such products growing as much as 6–10% a year. However, these are largely intended for and worn by the elderly, with the growth due to Japan's aging population, and younger people wearing these have met with some criticism. In 2012, the Japanese magazine SPA ran an article entitled \"The Ultimate Form of Slob\", which criticized the trend of young Japanese women who wear diapers to avoid public restrooms. The article included an interview with a 25-year-old woman who had been wearing diapers \"instead of going to the toilet\" for a period of six months, \"wearing [them] almost every day.\"\n\n\"See also: Underwear fetishism\"\n\nSome individuals find it attractive when one was to wet themself in a skirt. Typically, in Japan, this would be a high-school girl wearing a short pleated skirt resembling a school uniform.\n\nIn order to avoid Japan's strict censorship laws, which limited depictions of actual sex and pubic hair, erotic films (known as \"pink films\") often relied on fetish elements which could skirt such restrictions. One such film, \"\" in 1973, would be the first to depict an omorashi scenario to a theatrical audience.\n\nAs the AV (adult video) genre took hold in the 1980s, videos specifically devoted to omorashi began to appear. Several notable AV idols have starred in such scenes, including Sakura Sakurada. However, perhaps because of its softcore nature, omorashi never became a clearly pornographic genre.\n\nToday, Japanese omorashi fans also enjoy game show-style pornographic videos in which contestants must compete in various urine-holding challenges. The Giga video company's \"Desperation Tournament\" series is an example of this kind of contest. One such activity is a panel of contestants competing to hold their bladders, or to guess which woman has to use the restroom the most.\n\nSince the 1990s, magazine companies catering to the Japanese kink community have produced a number of periodicals dedicated to omorashi subculture, including most notably 's (rendered phonetically as the wasei-eigo おもらし倶楽部, or \"Omorashi Kurabu\"). First published September 22, 1994, \"Omorashi Club\"'s success allowed Sanwa to extend the brand in 2006 to include a DVD magazine. The following year, the demand for material catering specifically to \"omutsu omorashi\" fandom led to further expansion with the spin-off periodical (おむつ倶楽部, or \"Omutsu Kurabu\"). The scarcity of earlier issues of these magazines has caused them to become collector's items.\n\nJapanese-produced omorashi media also include comic books and cartoons. These range from independently produced dōjinshi to large, commercially-produced manga. Some focus exclusively on omorashi stories, while others include only the occasional scene. Some contain obvious sexual themes and could be considered a form of H manga, while others, like \"Iinari! Aibure-shon\", are well known to be suitable for all ages, since they have only mild ecchi content such as panchira. Omorashi manga may also adopt the formula of an existing genre while shifting the focus towards wetting scenarios, as in \"Omujo! Omutsu Joshi\", which follows the typical Harem formula but features teenage characters who wet their panties and wear diapers.\n\nWetting scenes have existed in anime as early as the popular Doraemon and \"Devilman\" series of the 1970s. \nHowever, these did not have the erotic context which characterizes modern omorashi media, since they predated the first full-blown anime pornography, which was not available until 1984, when the advent of the first H anime OVAs such as Wonder Kids' \"Lolita Anime\" were made possible by the widespread availability of home video. One example of this later erotic context is the 1994 H anime OVA \"Vixens\", which features scenes of incontinence in a setting that is overtly sexual.\n\nThere are also sites where users can upload and watch their own pictures. It can be fanart or manga. Sometimes there are GIFs involved. The most known site for such fanart is omorashi.org. Those pictures are more likely the fanart of already existing anime or game characters (SAO or Touhou), but there are some own pictures too.\n\nAn \"eroge\" (erotic game) is a Japanese video or computer game that features erotic content, usually in the form of anime-style artwork. The crossover of omorashi and anime fandom has produced a number of games such as \"Water Closet: The Forbidden Chamber\" which are specifically focused on omorashi. The limited popularity of omorashi in the West has prompted a number of programmers in the scene to create software patches for these Japanese games which translate the on screen text into English.\n\nSome eroge game designers have capitalized on the omorashi fandom's niche market by including the occasional wetting scene in their games as a selling point. \"MAID iN HEAVEN SuperS\", for example, which contains only a single, diapered wetting scene, was used to spin-off an entire set of collectible figures in various omorashi poses. These PVC model figures were created by toy manufacturer Giga Pulse, which is not related to the video company of similar name.\n\nWith the translation of omorashi into manga and its subsequent adoption by otaku fandom, a number of omorashi themed collectibles have appeared on the Japanese market, including figurines and \"Shizukuishi kyuun kyuun toilet paper\" printed with wetting scenes featuring the character Shizukuishi from the omorashi manga, \"Iinari! Aibure-shon\".\n\nThough there is a small community devoted to such fetishism outside Japan, it is usually overshadowed by the more hardcore fetishes, urolagnia and urophagia. Vice Media has documented an account of an omorashi community existing in the United States since at least 1970. Outside Japan omorashi groups sometimes refer to their shared interest as \"desperation/wetting\" fetishism, often making a distinction between content featuring males and females. Some English language websites with a focus on females simply identify as \"panty wetting.\" Since such sites abandon the \"desperation\" title which implies an effort not to wet, they are more likely to include nudity, overtly sexual models and situations, as well as purposeful (as opposed to accidental) wetting. There are still communities which focus on the more tame or softcore aspects of omorashi, which are generally focused on simple wetting in fully or semi-clothed situations without the overtly sexual models and situations. However, this softcore side is more rare in English-speaking communities than the more explicitly sexual omorashi content.\n\nThough there is generally no wide acceptance of incontinence-based play, recent studies in England have shown that urinary incontinence during sexual activity is a \"common, but rarely volunteered symptom\" observed in 24% of sexually active women. Moreover, no connection could be identified with any specific abnormality of bladder function associated with these symptoms, indicating that such leakage is both normal and healthy.\n\nBecause of the western stigma in numerous countries against urine, omorashi subculture has not received such diverse exposure in non-Japanese media. In some countries, governments have even banned such materials. In New Zealand for example, creating, trading, distributing (e.g. making available on one's web page) anything promoting or supporting \"the use of urine or excrement in association with degrading or dehumanising conduct or sexual conduct\" is a felony punishable by up to ten (10) years in jail.\n\nAn early example of pants-wetting appearing in a sexualized context in the west can be found in the 1928 erotic novel Story of the Eye.\n\nOmorashi periodicals outside of Japan include the Australia based, internationally distributed, \"Wet Set Magazine\". The welcome header on their website reads:\n\nThough Wet Set publications were originally only available in English, readership in German speaking countries has since proved high enough to justify printing some materials in German.\n\nThough Wet Set does not generally acknowledge the comparatively large Asian fan base over any other country, some Western advocates of omorashi recognize a heavy Asian influence. For instance, in a February 2006 issue of The Brooklyn Rail, American poet Garrett Caples of Oakland, California chose to describe the shooting of an omorashi film in a Japanese setting.\n\nAside from lending Western omorashi media an \"authentic\" quality, the inclusion of Japanese models and settings might also be seen as an attempt to play upon the stereotype of ultrapassivity globally associated with Asian women, further enhancing their perceived \"moe\" qualities and catering to Asian fetishists.\n\nOmorashi may be practiced in BDSM, where the dominant controls how and when the submissive is allowed to use the bathroom. This is sometimes referred to as \"bathroom use control\". The 2002 award-winning film \"Secretary\" depicted a scene of bathroom use control resulting in the submissive wetting her dress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23645246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23645246", "title": "Pocket neighborhood", "text": "Pocket neighborhood\n\nA pocket neighborhood is a type of planned community that consists of a grouping of smaller residences, often around a courtyard or common garden, designed to promote a close knit sense of community and neighborliness with an increased level of contact. Considerations involved in planning and zoning pocket neighborhoods include reducing or segregating parking and roadways, the use of shared communal areas that promote social activities, and homes with smaller square footage built in close proximity to one another (high density). Features in the smaller homes are designed to maximize space and can use built in shelves and porch areas, encouraging time spent outside with a focal point around a greenspace (instead of parking areas).\n\nEnvironmental considerations often play a role in the planning of pocket neighborhoods, and those advocating them promote their design as an alternative to the sprawl, isolation, expense, and commuter and automobile focus of many larger homes in suburban developments.\n\nThe term \"pocket neighborhood\" was coined by architect Ross Chapin. In 1995, Chapin partnered with The Cottage Company founder Jim Soules to build the first contemporary pocket neighborhood, the Third Street Cottages, in the city of Langley on Whidbey Island in Puget Sound. The Third Street Cottages, a collection of 8 modest cottages, were developed to take advantage of Langley's cottage ordinance, where zoning allowed for double density housing \"if the homes were limited to 975 square feet\".\n\nSoules describes a pocket neighborhood as \"a group of homes that face and relate to one another around a landscaped common area—the old bungalow court approach.\" Chapin also credits Radburn design housing, architect Bernard Maybeck's Rose Walk in the Berkeley Hills, and early 20th century cottage courts such as Seattle's Pine Street Cottages as influences on the pocket neighborhood plan. Pocket neighborhoods often adopt a model of cooperative ownership and shared community responsibilities similar to cohousing communities.\n\nBoston's pocket neighborhood of Audubon Circle added 20 sculpted bird silhouettes over one of the city's busiest intersections to \"beautify and define\" the area. A small neighborhood in Fife limited commercial development in a pocket neighborhood of 12 homes built in the 1930s. A grouping of three houses in Duluth, Minnesota, designed by architect David Salmela, adopts the \"Scandinavian tradition of pocket neighborhood\" using common style and appearance for the homes and a central courtyard to enhance views and neighborly contact. A planned pocket neighborhood on in Beloit, Wisconsin was designed to include geothermal heating and cooling and is a sustainable development that will use a common road at the back of the homes, geothermal energy, and a community tea garden, while limiting the need to remove existing oak trees on the property.\n\nOther projects include Conover Commons in Redmond, Washington, Greenwood Avenue Cottages in Shoreline, Washington, Danielson Grove in Kirkland, Washington, Umatilla Hill in Port Townsend, Washington and Salish Pond in Gresham, Oregon. The smaller homes are more affordable to maintain and keep up, and cooperation can be a benefit when it comes to watching children and pets.\n"}
{"id": "50606186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50606186", "title": "Polish Association of Freethinkers", "text": "Polish Association of Freethinkers\n\nPolish Association of Freethinkers (PAF) () is a secular movement established in 1907 in Warsaw. Polish Association of Freethinkers was the first such organization in the Polish lands.\n\nDecember 8, 1907 r., Delegates and the National Congress of Polish freethinking in Warsaw, established the Polish Association of Freethinkers. Among the participants-founders were social activists Aleksander Świętochowski and Ludwik Krzywicki. Association set itself the goal of fighting for the introduction of: secular standards of public life, secular metrics, secular wedding and funeral, and abolition of coercive religious education in schools. Tsarist repression led to the rapid outlawing PAFT already in 1909.\n\nIn May 1920. By Jan Niecisław Baudouin de Courtenay reactivated activity PAFT. De Courtenay became the first president. Among the founders were m.in .: Romuald Minkiewicz, Jan Hempel, Józef Landau. The movement demanded above all a real separation of church and state, legal recognition lack of religious beliefs.\n\nAt the third congress of the PAFT in 1925. It made a split in the organization's supporters and liberal enlightenment tradition led by Jan Baudouin de Courtenay and Joseph Landau, and supporters of Marxism. Seized power a group of left-wing activists with Jan Hempel, for which the earlier demands of the movement were too liberal.\n\nThe Association began to emphasize threads anticlerical and atheistic, acceded to the International Proletarian Freethinkers. A group of activists associated with the old leadership had left the organization and set up in 1926 Polish Association of Free Thought.\n\nIn 1928. The administrative authorities resolved the Polish Association of. Most of Freethinkers the activists of the banned PAFT joined the Polish Association of Free Thought, which eventually began to refer to leftist slogans, which led to its outlawing in 1936.\n\n"}
{"id": "47733515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47733515", "title": "Population White Paper", "text": "Population White Paper\n\nA Sustainable Population for a Dynamic Singapore: Population White Paper (), or simply known as the Population White Paper (PWP), is a controversial white paper released by the government of Singapore in January 2013 that projects Singapore's population as 6.9 million by the year 2030.\n\nThe PWP projects an increase of 1.6 million people from 2013, or an average of 100,000 more people in Singapore each year. The PWP argued that up to 30,000 new permanent residents and 25,000 naturalized citizens each year are needed to sustain Singapore's population due to the falling birth rates in Singapore. \n\nIt also justified immigration and presence of foreign workers as helping local businesses thrive and \"create good jobs for Singaporeans\". \n\nThe PWP also included additional measures to encourage marriage and increase the birth rate. The motion was passed in Parliament to endorse the PWP by 77 votes to 13 (the 13 opponents included all members of the opposition and three nominated MPs), albeit after amendments made to leave out \"population policy\" and add focus on infrastructure and transport development.\n\nSeveral parties opposing the PWP have taken it to be a targeted increase of Singapore's population to 6.9 million. Citizens reacted to the PWP with shock and anger, and this has led to the largest public protest ever organized in Singapore's history. In an 8 February 2013 speech in support of the White Paper, Prime Minister Lee said that he expected the 2030 population to be \"significantly below\" the 6.9 million figure, but that 6 million would not be enough, because of the declining birth rate and the needs of aging people.\n\nMany Singaporeans have attributed the government's population and immigration policy as the cause of overcrowding and falling reliability of its public transportation system, increasing property prices for housing, suppressed wage level, increased competition for jobs (especially for professionals, managers, executives and technicians) and education, increasing income inequality and other social problems. Academics have also criticized the PWP as being \"overly mechanistic, economically simplistic and astonishingly sociologically and politically naive\". The PWP has become one of the largest political issues raised in the 2015 general elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "780859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780859", "title": "Public holidays in Bolivia", "text": "Public holidays in Bolivia\n"}
{"id": "17231041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17231041", "title": "Qimen Dunjia", "text": "Qimen Dunjia\n\nQimen Dunjia is an ancient form of divination from China. It is still in use in China, Taiwan, Singapore and the Chinese diaspora in Southeast Asia. It is one of the Three Styles () of Chinese divination, with Da Liu Ren and Tai Yi Shen Shu.\n\nOriginally devised to help form military strategy and tactics, Qimen Dunjia was in use as long ago as the period of Chinese history known as the Warring States, and is believed by Chinese scholars to have been used at the Battle of Red Cliffs in the defeat of Cao Cao's ship-borne army.\n\nLiu Bowen is believed to have secured the throne for the Ming dynasty's Hongwu Emperor by applying Qimen Dunjia to his strategic planning.\n\nOver the centuries of Chinese history, Qimen Dunjia grew in popularity and was expanded to include a number of other types of divination, including medical divination, matchmaking, childbirth, travel, personal fortunes, and today includes contemporary applications, most notably that of business and finance. Today Qimen Dunjia is especially popular in Singapore and other nations of Southeast Asia. \n\nQimen Dunjia is based on astronomical observations, and consists of various aspects of Chinese metaphysics, including the doctrines of yin and yang, five elements, the eight trigrams, the ten Heavenly Stems and the twelve Earthly Branches, as well as the twenty-four solar terms.\n\nThe Qimen Dunjia cosmic board consists of a 3 × 3 magic square of nine palaces (), which includes a Heaven and Earth plate, a spirit plate, eight gates and a star plate. The various symbols rotate around the palaces with each , making a total of 1,080 different configurations of the Qimen Dunjia cosmic board. These situations () are recycled four times per year, and are divided between the Yin and Yang halves of the year.\n\nEach type of Qimen Dunjia divination carries its unique set of Use Spirits (). For example, medical divination relies mainly upon the star plate. The task of the Qimen Dunjia analyst is to interpret and analyze the meanings of the symbols in relation to questions asked. Any Qimen Dunjia situation may be interpreted or analyzed to respond to a wide variety of questions, or to solve a multitude of problems.\n\nQimen Dunjia is time-sensitive. The analyst makes reference to the configuration of the cosmic board at the time when a question is posed, or for birth times of individuals or corporate entities, such as businesses or nations. At times, the same or very similar configurations of the cosmic board will appear in relation to the same series of questions or problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "42869912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42869912", "title": "Sierra Leonean English", "text": "Sierra Leonean English\n\nSierra Leonean English is the dialect of English spoken by Sierra Leoneans which has been heavily influenced by the Sierra Leone Creole people.\n\nSierra Leonean English realizes as a voiced uvular fricative, or, more rarely, a uvular trill. This is rare among accents of English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18454974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18454974", "title": "Social movement organization", "text": "Social movement organization\n\nIn social movement theory, a social movement organization (often capitalized in academic literature as Social Movement Organization or abbreviated as SMO) is an organized component of a social movement (SM). SMO usually is only part of a particular social movement; in other words, a specific social movement is usually composed of many social movement organizations – formal organizations that share movement's goals. Social movement organizations usually have coordinating roles in social movements, but do not actually employ or direct most of the participants, who are part of a wider social movement community. Social movement organizations carry out the tasks that are necessary for any social movement to survive and to be successful.\n\nFor instance, the civil rights movement was a social movement composed of specific social movement organizations (like SNCC (Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee) or CORE (Congress of Racial Equality)). PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) advocates for vegan lifestyles along with its other aims. But PETA is not the only group to advocate for vegan diets and lifestyles; there are numerous other groups actively engaged toward this end. Thus, the social movement is the general push toward veganism (an effort with numerous motivations) and PETA is only a single SMO working within the broader social movement. The peace movement is composed of many groups that want peace – groups that classify as SMOs such as Peace Action (SANE/FREEZE), Fellowship of Reconciliation and others. Ku Klux Klan is yet another SMO – part of the white supremacist movement. al-Qaeda, acting as a coordinating body for a large number of loosely connected anti-American organizations and individuals is another example of a social movement organization.\n\nAn organizational equivalent of a particular social movement – a collection of all SMOs focused on a given field – is known as a Social Movement Industry (SMI). Social Movement Industries are similar to social movements in scope but are seen as having more structure. Social movement industries can be combined into one Social Movement Sector in the society.\n\nThe term SMO entered the literature through the work of Mayer N. Zald and Roberta Ash (Zald, Mayer N. and Roberta Ash, \"Social Movement Organizations: Growth, Decay and Change.\" Social Forces 44:327-341, 1966).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "419202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419202", "title": "State ownership", "text": "State ownership\n\nState ownership (also called public ownership and government ownership) is the ownership of an industry, asset, or enterprise by the state or a public body representing a community as opposed to an individual or private party. Public ownership specifically refers to industries selling goods and services to consumers and differs from public goods and government services financed out of a government’s general budget. Public ownership can take place at the national, regional, local, or municipal levels of government; or can refer to non-governmental public ownership vested in autonomous public enterprises. Public ownership is one of the three major forms of property ownership, differentiated from private, collective/cooperative, and common ownership.\n\nIn market-based economies, state-owned assets are often managed and operated as joint-stock corporations with a government owning all or a controlling stake of the company's shares. This form is often referred to as a state-owned enterprise. A state-owned enterprise might variously operate as a not-for-profit corporation, as it may not be required to generate a profit; as a commercial enterprise in competitive sectors; or as a natural monopoly. Governments may also use the profitable entities they own to support the general budget. The creation of a state-owned enterprise from other forms of public property is called corporatization.\n\nIn Soviet-type economies, state property was the dominant form of industry as property. The state held a monopoly on land and natural resources, and enterprises operated under the legal framework of a nominally planned economy, and thus according to different criteria than enterprises in market and mixed economies.\n\nNationalization process of transferring private or municipal assets to a central government or state entity. Municipalization is the process of transferring private or state assets to a municipal government.\n\nA state-owned enterprise is a commercial enterprise owned by a government entity in a capitalist market or mixed economy. Reasons for state ownership of commercial enterprises are that the enterprise in question is a natural monopoly or because the government is promoting economic development and industrialization. State-owned enterprises may or may not be expected to operate in a broadly commercial manner and may or may not have monopolies in their areas of activity. The transformation of public entities and government agencies into government-owned corporations is sometimes a precursor to privatization.\n\nState capitalist economies are capitalist market economies that have high degrees of government-owned businesses.\n\nPublic ownership of the means of production is a subset of social ownership, which is the defining characteristic of a socialist economy. However, state ownership and nationalization by themselves are not socialist, as they can exist under a wide variety of different political and economic systems for a variety of different reasons. State ownership by itself does not imply social ownership where income rights belong to society as a whole. As such, state ownership is only one possible expression of public ownership, which itself is one variation of the broader concept of social ownership.\n\nIn the context of socialism, public ownership implies that the surplus product generated by publicly owned assets accrues to all of society in the form of a social dividend, as opposed to a distinct class of private capital owners. There is a wide variety of organizational forms for state-run industry, ranging from specialized technocratic management to direct workers' self-management. In traditional conceptions of non-market socialism, public ownership is a tool to consolidate the means of production as a precursor to the establishment of economic planning for the allocation of resources between organizations, as required by government or by the state.\n\nState ownership is advocated as a form of social ownership for practical concerns, with the state being seen as the obvious candidate for owning and operating the means of production. Proponents assume that the state, as the representative of the public interest, would manage resources and production for the benefit of the public. As a form of social ownership, state ownership may be contrasted with cooperatives and common ownership. Socialist theories and political ideologies that favor state ownership of the means of production may be labelled state socialism.\n\nState ownership was recognized by Friedrich Engels in \"Socialism: Utopian and Scientific\" as, by itself, not doing away with capitalism, including the process of capital accumulation and structure of wage labor. Engels argued that state ownership of commercial industry would represent the final stage of capitalism, consisting of ownership and management of large-scale production and manufacture by the state.\n\nWhen ownership of a resource is vested in the state, or any branch of the state such as a local authority, individual use \"rights\" are based on the state's management policies, though these rights are not property rights as they are not transmissible. For example, if a family is allocated an apartment that is state owned, it will have been granted a tenancy of the apartment, which may be lifelong or inheritable, but the management and control rights are held by various government departments.\n\nThere is a distinction to be made between state ownership and public property. The former may refer to assets operated by a specific state institution or branch of government, used exclusively by that branch, such as a research laboratory. The latter refers to assets and resources that are available to the entire public for use, such as a public park (see public space).\n\nIn Neoclassical economic theory, the desirability of state ownership has been studied using contract theory. According to the property rights approach based on incomplete contracting (developed by Oliver Hart and his co-authors), ownership matters because it determines what happens in contingencies that were not considered in prevailing contracts. The work by Hart, Shleifer and Vishny (1997) is the leading application of the property rights approach to the question whether state ownership or private ownership is desirable. In their model, the government and a private firm can invest to improve the quality of a public good and to reduce its production costs. It turns out that private ownership results in strong incentives to reduce costs, but it may also lead to poor quality. Hence, depending on the available investment technologies, there are situations in which state ownership is better. The Hart-Shleifer-Vishny theory has been extended in many directions. For instance, some authors have also considered mixed forms of private ownership and state ownership. Moreover, the Hart-Shleifer-Vishny model assumes that the private party derives no utility from provision of the public good. Besley and Ghatak (2001) have shown that if the private party (a non-governmental organization) cares about the public good, then the party with the larger valuation of the public good should always be the owner, regardless of the parties' investment technologies. Yet, more recently some authors have shown that the investment technology also matters in the Besley-Ghatak framework if an investing party is indispensable or if there are bargaining frictions between the government and the private party.\n\n"}
{"id": "34146799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34146799", "title": "Suicide of Danny Chen", "text": "Suicide of Danny Chen\n\nDanny Chen (; May 26, 1992 – October 3, 2011) was an American U.S. Army soldier who served in Afghanistan in the early 21st century whose death resulted in a military investigation and charges against eight US soldiers, ultimately with four being court martialed.\n\nThe investigation found that Chen had been racially harassed and beaten by his fellow soldiers before his death on October 3, 2011.\n\nChen was born and raised in Chinatown, Manhattan, New York City, New York by parents who had immigrated from China. His father works as a chef and his mother as a seamstress. His parents came from Taishan, a coastal city in Guangdong province, China.\n\nChen attended P.S. 130 M, graduated from Pace University High School in Manhattan in 2010, and received a full scholarship offer to Baruch College in Manhattan. However, Chen had other ambitions and joined the army in January 2011. He planned after his military service to return to New York City to serve with the New York City Police Department. His mother was unhappy about his choice, as she thought since he was a good student he could build a professional career. However, his father supported him.\n\nAfter completing basic training at Fort Benning, Georgia, in April 2011, Pvt. Chen was assigned to C Company, 3rd Battalion, 21st Infantry Regiment, 1st Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division, which is based in Fort Wainwright, Alaska. In August, he was deployed with his unit to Kandahar province in Afghanistan. They were stationed at Combat Outpost Palace, a forward operating post.\n\nChen was found dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound in his living quarters at the base in Kandahar province, Afghanistan.\n\n\"Three days after his death, a military official told Ms. Chen and her husband, Yan Tao Chen, that investigators had not yet determined whether the shot to the head was self-inflicted or fired by someone else.\n\nBut the official also revealed, the Chens said, that Private Chen had been subjected to physical abuse and ethnic slurs by superiors, who one night dragged him out of bed and across the floor when he failed to turn off a water heater after showering.\" The military did not provide much information to the parents while they were conducting their investigation.\n\nBut military investigators found that Chen was the target in Afghanistan of ethnic slurs and endured physical attacks at the hands of his fellow soldiers before his death. Chen was found to have been physically and verbally abused by his superiors, who appeared to single him out for being Chinese-American. This abuse occurred on a daily basis for six weeks before his death. As the only American soldier with Chinese ancestry in the unit, he was singled out, endured taunts including racial slurs such as \"gook\", \"chink\", \"Jackie Chan\", \"Soy Sauce\" and \"dragon lady;\" assigned excessive guard duty to the point of exhaustion, made to do push-ups while holding water in his mouth, and put in a \"simulated sitting position\" and kicked by other soldiers using their knees, among other abuses.\n\nHe was allegedly pelted with stones by fellow soldiers and forced to crawl across gravel shortly before his death. On September 27, 2011, a sergeant dragged Chen out of bed and over of gravel, leaving visible bruises and cuts on Chen's back. Although the incident was reported to Chen's platoon sergeant and squad leader, it was not reported to superior officers. On October 3, 2011, the day he died, other soldiers forced him to crawl on gravel for over while carrying equipment, as his comrades threw rocks at him.\n\nChen received a military funeral at a cemetery in Valhalla, New York, on October 13, 2011.\n\nOn December 21, 2011, the US Army charged eight soldiers with various crimes relating to Chen's death:\nAll the defendants belonged to C Company, 3rd Battalion, 21st Infantry Regiment, 1st Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division. They faced various charges, including assault, dereliction of duty, involuntary manslaughter, maltreatment, making false statements, negligent homicide, and reckless endangerment.\n\nFollowing a series of Article 32 hearings on March 5, 2012, investigators dropped the most serious charge, involuntary manslaughter, which carries a maximum penalty of ten years in prison. Four of the eight soldiers were recommended for court-martial on the remaining charges, such as negligent homicide, which carries a maximum penalty of three years in prison. Subsequent trials were held at Fort Bragg in North Carolina.\n\nDaniel Schwartz of Maryland, a 2009 graduate of West Point, was Chen's platoon leader and a First Lieutenant. Following a pretrial hearing at Kandahar Air Field, he was recommended for court-martial on February 12, 2012. He faced eight counts of dereliction of duty, including failure to promote \"a climate in which everyone is treated with dignity and respect, regardless of race\" and \"to prevent his subordinates from maltreating and engaging in racially abusive language.\" Furthermore, he stood \"accused of failing to report two soldiers for consuming alcohol in violation of military rules and failing to report one of those soldiers for 'recklessly' detonating a hand grenade near their base.\"\n\nSchwartz reached a plea deal with prosecutors in December 2012, after they consulted with Chen's parents about the issues. Schwartz did not face trial, and the charges against him were dropped. But he was dismissed from the Army, following a nonpublic Article 15 proceeding. Specifics regarding his punishment were not disclosed.\n\nIn July 2012, the court-martial started of 30-year-old Sgt. Adam Michael Holcomb of Youngstown, Ohio, among the four charged in Chen's death. He faced charges including negligent homicide, reckless endangerment, communicating a threat, assault, maltreatment of a subordinate, dereliction of duty, and violating a lawful general regulation, which combined carried a maximum prison sentence of up to 17 years and 9 months. He pleaded not guilty. The trial was conducted at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.\n\nPrivate Degan Berhe testified that Chen had discussed suicide because of being harassed by Holcomb: \"He told me to my face, sir, that he wanted to commit suicide because he was mistreated.\"\n\nHolcomb was acquitted of being a cause of Chen's death and most of the other charges, but was convicted of assault. He was sentenced to thirty days in jail, demoted by one rank, and fined $1100 in forfeited pay for this offense. Members of the community, including Asian Americans and civil rights activists, were outraged by this light sentence.\n\nIn August 2012, it was reported that Spc. Ryan J. Offutt pleaded guilty to one count of hazing and two specifications of maltreatment. Offutt made a plea deal, resulting in charges of negligent homicide and reckless endangerment being dropped. Offutt had called Chen \"chink,\" \"gook,\" \"fortune cookie,\" \"squint eye\", and \"egg roll.\" He had kicked Chen and thrown rocks at him. He was sentenced to six months in prison. On appeal, the military court of appeals dismissed the six-month sentence and approved punishment only of reducing him in rank to E-1 and discharging him with a Bad Conduct Discharge.\n\nIn October 2012, it was reported that Spc. Travis Carden was demoted to private and received a \"bad conduct discharge\", after pleading guilty to charges which included attempting to impede an investigation, striking and pushing another soldier, and negligently discharging a pistol in a government van during the altercation. Carden had previously been found guilty of ordering Chen to perform demeaning physical tasks, and calling him racially disparaging names. He was sentenced to ten months in prison.\n\nIn Afghanistan, VanBockel was Chen's squad leader at Combat Outpost Palace. In November 2012, a military jury convicted Staff Sgt. VanBockel of hazing, dereliction of duty and maltreatment of a subordinate. He was demoted two ranks, reprimanded and forced to perform 60 days of hard labor, of which 45 days were credited due to pre-trial confinement.\n\nPrivate Chen's death followed the suicide of Lance Corporal Harry Lew of the United States Marines, which took place in the same year.\n\nThe military has been criticized for other deaths of young men associated with hazing, and has conducted courts-martial of fellow military men, including non-coms and officers, who have been seen as permitting or encouraging abusive hazing, against the military's official policies. After the trials associated with Chen's death, the Army said it was working \"to re-examine its policies against hazing and, officials said, double its efforts to eradicate the practice from its ranks.\"\n\nCongresswoman Judy Chu (D-CA), an aunt of Lew, introduced a bill, \"Harry Lew Military Hazing Accountability and Prevention Act\", which was passed as part of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2017.\n\n\"An American Soldier\", an opera based on Chen's suicide and the subsequent courts-martial was premiered at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 2014. A revised expanded version had its world premiere in 2018 at the Opera Theatre of Saint Louis festival.\n\nA stretch of Elizabeth Street in Chinatown, Manhattan is now also designated as Private Danny Chen Way. It was dedicated on Memorial Day in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "56939237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56939237", "title": "Taha Yasseri", "text": "Taha Yasseri\n\nTaha Yasseri (born 6 September 1984) is an Iranian physicist known for his research on Wikipedia and computational social science. He is a Senior Research Fellow in computational social science at the Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford, a Turing Fellow at the Alan Turing Institute for Data Science, and a Research Fellow in Humanities and Social Sciences at Wolfson College, University of Oxford. Yasseri's research has been widely covered in the media.\n\nYasseri has studied the statistical trends of systemic bias at Wikipedia introduced by editing conflicts and their resolution. His research examined the counterproductive work behavior of edit warring. Yasseri contended that simple reverts or \"undo\" operations were not the most significant measure of counterproductive behavior at Wikipedia and relied instead on the statistical measurement of detecting \"reverting/reverted pairs\" or \"mutually reverting edit pairs\". Such a \"mutually reverting edit pair\" is defined where one editor reverts the edit of another editor who then, in sequence, returns to revert the first editor in the \"mutually reverting edit pairs\". The results were tabulated for several language versions of Wikipedia. The English Wikipedia's three largest conflict rates belonged to the articles \"George W. Bush\", \"Anarchism\" and \"Muhammad\". By comparison, for the German Wikipedia, the three largest conflict rates at the time of the Oxford study were for the articles covering (i) \"Croatia\", (ii) \"Scientology\" and (iii) \"9/11 conspiracy theories\".\n\nIn a study published by \"PLoS ONE\" in 2012 he estimated the share of contributions to different editions of Wikipedia from different regions of the world. It reported that the proportion of the edits made from North America was 51% for the English Wikipedia, and 25% for the simple English Wikipedia. The Wikimedia Foundation hopes to increase the number of editors in the Global South to 37% by 2015.\n\nYasseri has studied the role of social media in politics. He has used Wikipedia page view statistics and Google search volumes to understand and potentially predict electoral popularity in different countries. He has co-written \"Political Turbulence; How Social Media Shape Collective Action\" which was selected among the best politics books of 2016 by The Guardian and was awarded the Political Studies Association Book of the year award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55803497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55803497", "title": "Turkmen jewelry", "text": "Turkmen jewelry\n\nTurkmen jewelry is a type of jewelry originating among the various Turkmen cultures of Western and Central Asia. The jewelry was crafted both for cosmetic and spiritual reasons, and the amount of jewelry an individual adorned themselves with was equated to the person's rank in society.\n\nA semi-nomadic people, the various Turkmen tribes often came into contact with urban population centers in the Middle East. Turkmen jewelers benefited from these exchanges, which allowed knowledge of jewel-crafting to spread to the Turkmen. Turkmen Jewelry is not homogeneous, as major variations existed between the artisans of the different Turkmen tribes. Silver set with precious stones became the most widely produced variant of Turkmen Jewelry. Turkmen tradition holds that precious stones are beneficial to human health, and many Turkmen tribes believed jewels to possess magical powers. The subjects depicted on the jewelry varied; some pieces depicted animals and floral patterns, while others displayed images of mountains sacred to the Turkmen or geometrical patterns. Different gems were thought to have different effects on their wearers. Carnelians and silver were worn to ward off death and disease, while turquoise was worn as a symbol of purity.\n\nJewelry was used as a way to establish one's rank in Turkmen society. According to art historian Layla Diba, Turkmen jewelry was created for and worn by all ranks of Turkmen society, from Khans to those at \"subsistence level.\" It was believed that, by wearing jewelry set with precious stones early in her life, a young woman could increase her fertility. After giving birth, a woman would then slowly decrease the amount of jewelry she wore as she aged. Dresses were also made with patterns designed to compliment the style of the wearer's jewelry.\n\nThe industry of making Turkmen Jewelery remains in place today. Due to the cost of precious metals and gemstones, some Turkmen jewelry substitutes gems for glass beads.\n"}
