{"id": "888257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=888257", "title": "84, Charing Cross Road", "text": "84, Charing Cross Road\n\n84, Charing Cross Road is a 1970 book by Helene Hanff, later made into a stage play, television play, and film, about the twenty-year correspondence between the author and Frank Doel, chief buyer of Marks & Co antiquarian booksellers, located at the eponymous address in London, England.\n\nHanff was in search of obscure classics and British literature titles that she had been unable to find in New York City when she noticed an ad in the \"Saturday Review of Literature\". She first contacted the shop in 1949 and it fell to Doel to fulfil her requests. In time, a long-distance friendship developed between the two and between Hanff and other staff members, as well, with an exchange of Christmas packages, birthday gifts and food parcels to help with the post-World War II food shortages in Britain. Their letters included discussions about topics as diverse as the sermons of John Donne, how to make Yorkshire Pudding, the Brooklyn Dodgers and the coronation of Elizabeth II. Hanff postponed visiting her English friends until too late; Doel died in December 1968 from peritonitis from a burst appendix, and the bookshop eventually closed in December 1970. Hanff did finally visit Charing Cross Road and the empty shop in the summer of 1971, a trip recorded in her 1973 book \"The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street\". \n\nThe five-story building where Marks & Co. was located during the events of the book still exists . A circular brass plaque on a pilaster on the street frontage acknowledges the story and marks the site. The premises were occupied by a music and CD shop in the early 1990s, and later other retail outlets. In 2009 they housed a Med Kitchen restaurant; and now form part of a McDonald's restaurant.\n\nPartial list of the books that Helene Hanff ordered from Marks & Co. and mentioned in \"84 Charing Cross Road\" (alphabetical order):\n\n\nHugh Whitemore adapted \"84, Charing Cross Road\" for the BBC's \"Play for Today\", a television anthology series. It was first broadcast on 4 November 1975, starring Frank Finlay and Anne Jackson.\n\nIn 1981, James Roose-Evans adapted it for the stage in a two-character version first produced at the Salisbury Playhouse with Rosemary Leach and David Swift. It transferred to the West End, where it opened to universally ecstatic reviews. A second production at the Playhouse ran from 5–28 February 2015, with Clive Francis and Janie Dee in the lead roles.\n\nAfter fifteen previews, the Broadway production opened to mixed reviews on 7 December 1982 at the Nederlander Theatre with Ellen Burstyn and Joseph Maher. It ran for 96 performances.\n\nVirginia Browns adapted the story for BBC Radio drama, and it was broadcast on Radio 3 on 15 January 1976, with Margaret Robertson as Hanff and Lyndon Brook as Doel. The play was produced by Christopher Venning. \n\nJames Roose-Evans again adapted the play for a 2007 radio production starring Gillian Anderson and Denis Lawson, broadcast on Christmas Day on BBC Radio 4.\n\nWhitemore returned to the project to write the screenplay for the 1987 film adaptation starring Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins. The \"dramatis personae\" were expanded to include Hanff's Manhattan friends, the bookshop staff, and Doel's wife Nora, played by Judi Dench. Bancroft won a BAFTA Award as Best Actress; Whitemore and Dench were nominated for Director and Supporting Actress, respectively.\n\nThe Chinese-Hong Kong film \"Book of Love\" or \"Finding Mr. Right 2\" (Chinese: 北京遇上西雅圖之不二情書) (2016) references, and is loosely inspired by, \"84, Charing Cross Road\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1005480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1005480", "title": "Afro-Cuban", "text": "Afro-Cuban\n\nThe term Afro-Cuban refers to Cubans who mostly have West African ancestry, and to historical or cultural elements in Cuba thought to emanate from this community. The term can refer to the combining of African and other cultural elements found in Cuban society such as race, religion, music, language, the arts, and class culture.\n\nAccording to a 2002 national census which surveyed 11.2 million Cubans, 1.1 million Cubans described themselves as Black, while 5.8 million considered themselves to be \"mulatto\" or \"mestizo\". Thus a significant proportion of those living on the island affirm some African ancestry. The matter is further complicated by the fact that a fair number of people still locate their origins in specific African ethnic groups or regions, particularly the Yoruba (or Lucumí), Akan, Arará and Congo, but also Igbo, Carabalí, Mandingo, Kissi, Fula, Makua and others.\n\nA study from 2014 estimated the genetic admixture of the population of Cuba to be 70% European, 22% African, and 8% Native American.\n\nAlthough Afro-Cubans can be found throughout Cuba, Eastern Cuba has a higher concentration of blacks than other parts of the island, and Havana has the largest population of blacks of any city in Cuba. Recently, many African immigrants have been coming to Cuba, especially from Angola. Also, immigrants from Jamaica and Haiti have been settling in Cuba, most of whom settle in the eastern part of the island, due to its proximity to their home countries, further contributing to the already high percentage of blacks on that side of the island.\nThe percentage of Afro-Cubans on the island increased after the 1959 Cuban revolution led by Fidel Castro due to mass migration from the island of the largely white Cuban professional class. A small percentage of Afro-Cubans left Cuba, mostly for the United States, (particularly Florida), where they and their U.S.-born children are called Cuban Americans, Hispanic Americans and African Americans. Only a few of them resided in nearby Spanish-speaking country of Dominican Republic and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico.\n\nThe now-defunct Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies at the University of Miami put the percentage of Cuba's black population at 62%. The Minority Rights Group International says that \"An objective assessment of the situation of Afro-Cubans remains problematic due to scant records and a paucity of systematic studies both pre- and post-revolution\".\n\nCountries such as Nigeria, the home of the Yoruba and Igbo cultures, and Equatorial Guinea experienced an influx of ex-slaves from Cuba brought there as indentured servants during the 17th century, and again during the 19th century. In Equatorial Guinea, they became part of the \"Emancipados\"; in Nigeria, they were called \"Amaros\". Despite being free to return to Cuba when their tenure was over, they remained in these countries marrying into the local indigenous population. The former slaves were brought to Africa by the \"Royal Orders of September 13, 1845\" (by way of voluntary arrangement) and a June 20, 1861, deportation from Cuba, due to the lack of volunteers. Similar circumstances previously occurred during the 17th century where ex-slaves from both Cuba and Brazil were offered the same opportunity.\n\nAngola also has communities of Afro-Cubans, Amparos. They are descendants of Afro-Cuban soldiers brought to the country in 1975 as a result of the Cuban involvement in the Cold War. Fidel Castro deployed thousands of troops to the country during the Angolan Civil War. As a result of this era, there exists a small Spanish-speaking community in Angola of Afro-Cubans numbering about 100,000.\n\nHaitian Creole and culture first entered Cuba with the arrival of Haitian immigrants at the start of the 19th century. Haiti was a French colony, and the final years of the 1791–1804 Haitian Revolution brought a wave of French settlers fleeing with their Haitian slaves to Cuba. They came mainly to the east, and especially Guantánamo, where the French later introduced sugar cultivation, constructed sugar refineries and developed coffee plantations. By 1804, some 30,000 French were living in Baracoa and Maisí, the furthest eastern municipalities of the province. Later, Haitians continued to come to Cuba to work as braceros (hand workers, from the Spanish word brazo, meaning \"arm\") in the fields cutting cane. Their living and working conditions were not much better than slavery. Although they planned to return to Haiti, most stayed on in Cuba. For years, many Haitians and their descendants in Cuba did not identify themselves as such or speak Creole. In the eastern part of the island, many Haitians suffered discrimination. \nAfter Spanish, Creole is the second most-spoken language in Cuba. In addition to the eastern provinces, there are also communities in Ciego de Ávila and Camagüey provinces where the population still maintains Creole, their mother tongue. Classes in Creole are offered in Guantanamo, Matanzas and the City of Havana. There is a Creole-language radio program.\n\nAfro-Cuban religion can be broken down into three main currents: Santería, Palo Monte, and Abakuá, and include individuals of all origins. Santería is syncretized with Roman Catholicism.\n\nThe Abakuá religion is a secret society for men, similar to the freemason orders of Europe. It has not been syncretized with Roman Catholicism and remains close to its origins in southeastern Nigeria and southwestern Cameroon, from the Ekpe society of the Efik people of Cross River State and nearby areas.\n\nAfro-Cuban music involves two main categories of music, religious and profane. Religious music includes the chants, rhythms and instruments used in rituals of the above-mentioned religious currents, while profane music focuses largely on rumba, guaguancó and comparsa (carnival music) as well as several lesser styles such as the tumba francesa. Virtually all Cuban music has been influenced by African rhythms. Cuban popular music, and quite a lot of the art music, has strands from both Spain and Africa, woven into a unique Cuban cloth. The \"son\" is a typical example of this. While much of the music is often performed in cut-time, artists typically use an array of time signatures like 6/8 for drumming beats. Clave, on the other hand, uses a polymetric 7/8 + 5/8 time signature \n\nOther cultural elements considered to be Afro-Cuban can be found in language (including syntax, vocabulary, and style of speech).\n\nThe Afro-Cuban religions all maintain some degree of use of African languages. Santería and Abakuá both have large parts of their liturgy in African languages (Lucumí, Igbo and Ñañigo, respectively) while Palo uses a mixture of Spanish and Kikongo, known as Habla Congo.\n\nAccording to anthropologists dispatched by the European Union, racism is entrenched in Cuba. Black people are systematically excluded from positions in tourism-related jobs, where they could earn tips in hard currencies. According to the EU study, black people are relegated to poor housing, and black Cubans are excluded from managerial positions.\n\nEnrique Patterson describes race as a \"social bomb\" and says that \"If the Cuban government were to permit black Cubans to organize and raise their problems before [authorities] ... totalitarianism would fall\". Esteban Morales Domínguez, a professor at the University of Havana, says that \"The absence of the debate on the racial problem already threatens ... the revolution's social project\". Carlos Moore, who has written extensively on the issue, says that \"There is an unstated threat, blacks in Cuba know that whenever you raise race in Cuba, you go to jail. Therefore the struggle in Cuba is different. There cannot be a civil rights movement. You will have instantly 10,000 black people dead. [...] The government is frightened to the extent to which it does not understand black Cubans today. You have a new generation of black Cubans who are looking at politics in another way.\" Barack Obama's victory has raised disturbing questions about the institutional racism in Cuba. \"The Economist\" noted \"The danger starts with his example: after all, a young, black, progressive politician has no chance of reaching the highest office in Cuba, although a majority of the island's people are black\"\n\nIn the years between the triumph of the revolution and the victory at Playa Girón the Cuban government was one of the world's most proactive regimes in the fight against discrimination. It achieved significant gains in racial equality through a series of egalitarian reforms early in the 1960s. Fidel Castro's first public address on racism after his rise to power was on March 23, 1959, at a labor rally in Havana, less than three months after he defeated Fulgencio Batista. He is quoted as saying: \"One of the most just battles that must be fought, a battle that must be emphasized more and more, which I might call the fourth battle--the battle to end racial discrimination at work centers. I repeat: the battle to end racial discrimination at work centers. Of all the forms of racial discrimination the worst is the one that limits the colored Cuban's access to jobs. \" Castro pointed to the distinction between social segregation and employment, while placing great emphasis on correcting the latter. In response to the large amount of racism that existed in the job market, Castro issued anti-discrimination laws. In addition, he attempted to close the class gap between wealthy white Cubans and Afro-Cubans with a massive literacy campaign among other egalitarian reforms in the early and mid-1960s.\nTwo years after his 1959 speech at the Havana Labor Rally, Castro declared that the age of racism and discrimination was over. In a speech given at the Confederation of Cuban Workers in observance of May Day, Castro declared that the \"just laws of the revolution ended unemployment, put an end to villages without hospitals and schools, enacted laws which ended discrimination, control by monopolies, humiliation, and the suffering of the people.\" Although inspiring, many would consider the claim to be premature.\"\n\nResearch conducted by Yesilernis Peña, Jim Sidanius and Mark Sawyer in 2003, suggests that social discrimination is still prevalent, despite the low levels of economic discrimination.\nAfter considering the issue solved, the Cuban government moved beyond the issue of racism. His message marked a shift in Cuban society's perception of racism that was triggered by the change in government focus.\" The government's announcement easily allowed the Cuban public to deny discrimination without first correcting the stereotypes that remained in the minds of those who grew up in a Cuba that was racially and economically divided. Many who argue that racism does not exist in Cuba base their claims on the idea of Latin American Exceptionalism. According to the argument of Latin American Exceptionality, a social history of intermarriage and mixing of the races is unique to Latina America. The large mestizo populations that result from high levels of interracial union common to Latin America are often linked to racial democracy. For many Cubans this translates into an argument of \"racial harmony\", often referred to as racial democracy. In the case of Cuba, ideas of Latin American Exceptionalism have delayed the progress of true racial harmony.\n\nMost of the Latin population of Tampa in the 1950s was working class and lived in restricted areas, ethnic enclaves in the vicinity of Tampa's hundreds of cigar factories. Black Cubans were tolerated to an extent in the Latin quarter (where most neighborhoods and cigar factories were integrated). Ybor City and its counterpart, West Tampa, were areas that bordered on other restricted sections-areas for U.S. blacks or whites only. In this Latin quarter, there existed racial discrimination despite its subtleness.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s Cuba experienced a movement geared towards Afro-Cuban culture called Afrocubanismo. The movement had a large impact on Cuban literature, poetry, painting, music, and sculpture. It was the first artistic campaign in Cuba that focused on one particular theme: black culture. Specifically it highlighted the struggle for independence from Spain, black slavery, and building a purely Cuban national identity. Its goal was to incorporate African folklore and rhythm into traditional modes of art.\n\nThe movement evolved from an interest in the rediscovery of African heritage. It developed in two very different and parallel stages. One stage stemmed from European artists and intellectuals who were interested in African art and musical folk forms. This stage paralleled the Harlem Renaissance in New York, Négritude in the French Caribbean, and coincided with stylistic European Vanguard (like Cubism and its representation of African masks). It was characterized by the participation of white intellectuals such as Cubans Alejo Carpentier, Rómulo Lachatañeré, Fortunato Vizcarrondo, Fernando Ortiz and Lydia Cabrera, Puerto Rican Luis Palés Matos and Spaniards Pablo Picasso and Roger de Lauria. The African-inspired art tended to represent Afro-Cubans with cliché images such as a black man sitting beneath a palm tree with a cigar.\n\nPoems and essays by black writers began to be published in the 1930s in newspapers, magazines and books, where they discussed their own personal heritage. Afro-Cuban and Afro-Cuban heritage artists such as Nicolás Guillén, Alberto Arredondo and Emilio Ballagas brought light to the once-marginalized black race and culture. It became a symbol of empowerment and individuality for Afro-Cubans within the established Western culture of the Americas and Europe.\n\nThis empowerment became a catalyst for the second stage to be characterized by Afro-Cuban artists making art that truly reflected what it meant to be Afro-Cuban. Beginning in the 1930s this stage depicted a more serious view of black culture like African religions and the struggles associated with slavery. The main protagonist during this stage of the movement was Nicolás Guillén.\n\nThe lasting reputation of the Afrocubanismo movement was the establishment of a New World art form that used aesthetics from both European and African culture. Although the actual movement of Afrocubanismo faded by the early 1940s, Afro-Cuban culture continues to play a vital role in the identity of Cuba. It has been the Cuban Revolution that opened up a space for extended research of African ethnic roots in Cuba. The rhetoric of the Revolution incorporates black history and its contribution as an important stratum of Cuban identity. The Revolution has funded many projects that restore the work of Afro-Cubans in an effort to accommodate an African-driven identity within the new anti-racist Cuban society.\n\n\nEssayist,tonelero,tailor,polyglot,linguists,novelist,first public orator in United States, owner of newspaper companies in Cuba and USA.\n\n\nPolitician,first Presidential Speaker of Cuban Senate,Senator,minister of Agriculture Labor & Trade,Lawyer,abolitionist,General Brigadier,legislature, orator. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37424163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37424163", "title": "Al Jazeera effect", "text": "Al Jazeera effect\n\nThe Al Jazeera effect is a term used in political science and media studies to describe the impact of new media and media sources on global politics, namely, reducing the government and mainstream media monopoly on information and empowering groups which previously lacked a global voice. The primary example is the effect's namesake – the impact of the Al Jazeera Media Network on the politics of the Arab world. One of the most interesting facts about Al Jazeera is that it is supported by a Fascist Islamic Emir with Oil and Gas funds mainly from exports to unislamic countries, who in recent years has been a beacon of change everywhere except his own country.\n\nAl Jazeera was created in 1996 with the combination of Emir of Qatar's money and talent from the defunct BBC Arabic service. It started as a response to the fact that governments in many countries from the Arab League strictly controlled most forms of newspaper and TV journalism, and there was a lack of free press available. The viewing public did not respect journalism because it considered most reporters to be mouthpieces for dictators or political groups. The Emir of Qatar sought to break the heavy handed media management by the government because he had progressive ideas of expanding political participation and allowing independent press.\n\nSimilarly, founders set up Al Jazeera to counter the dominant Western viewpoint of Arabs and Arabic culture throughout the 20th century. Arabs depended on the BBC and CNN International – but were frustrated they had to listen to the Western viewpoints about themselves. William Lafi Youmans attributes the first use of the term to Philip Seib, author of \"The Al Jazeera Effect: How the New Global Media Are Reshaping World Politics\" (2008). However, Simon Henderson, who in turn attributes the term to \"diplomats in the region\", had used it as early as 2000. As used by Henderson, the Al Jazeera effect originally referred to Arab Middle East governments losing their monopoly on information because of the popularity and easy access to the Al Jazeera satellite television media network, and scholars still often use it in such a limited context. Thomas L. McPhail used it to refer to the changes in all of the Arab media. Seib generalized it to other, Internet-powered new media worldwide.\n\nAl Jazeera ended the flow of information that followed the format of from the \"West to the rest\". It follows a similar pattern to the CNN effect and includes the accelerant effect, impediment effect, and agenda-setting effect. Seib noted that the Al Jazeera effect can be seen as parallel to the CNN effect, which states that coverage of international events can force otherwise uninvolved governments to take action. Whereas the CNN effect is used in the context of mainstream, traditional media networks such as CNN, the Al Jazeera effect generalizes this to newer media such as citizen journalist blogs, internet radio, and satellite broadcasting. He also argues that new media strengthen the identity of and give voice to previously marginalized groups, which previously lacked their own media outlets; he cites the Kurdish people as an example. Many of the new media organizations are affiliated with such groups, social movements or similar organizations. New media weaken the monopoly of many states on information, as even extensive Internet censorship in countries such as China is not wholly effective. He concludes that the new media, while not beyond being abused, are largely contributing to democratization and political reform worldwide. William Lafi Youmans notes that Seib's prediction that the Al Jazeera effect will lead to changes in the politics of the Middle East was realized in the early 2010s during the Arab Spring, with new media provoking widespread debate and unrest within the region. The CNN effect and Al Jazeera effect have had a tremendous impact on policies and the government. They have both influenced foreign policies of the US. the existence of such news organizations is crucial for having global communications and is promising in terms of spreading democracy.\n\nThe Al Jazeera effect has also been referred to as a subaltern, in reference to Subaltern (post colonialism). Subaltern, depending on the context and where the subaltern is present, resembles something of opposition to the status quo through the demographic that does not have the capital to have their voices be heard; this form of \"alternative media\" gives a \"voice to the voiceless.\" This notion of the subaltern is discussed by scholars, such as Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78597", "title": "Amazonomachy", "text": "Amazonomachy\n\nIn Greek mythology, Amazonomachy (English translation: \"Amazon battle\"; plural, Amazonomachiai () or Amazonomachies) was one of various mythical battles between the Ancient Greeks and the Amazons, a nation of all-female warriors. Many of the myths portrayed were that of Heracles' ninth labor, which was the retrieval of the girdle of Hippolyta, Queen of the Amazons, and of Theseus' abduction of Hippolyta, whom he claimed as his wife. Another famous scene portrayed is that of Achilles' victorious battle against Penthesilea during the Trojan war.\n\nThe subject was popular in ancient Greek art and Roman art.\n\nAmazonomachy represents the Greek ideal of civilization. The Amazons were portrayed as a savage and barbaric race, while the Greeks were portrayed as a civilized race of human progress. \nAccording to Bruno Snell's view of Amazonomachy\n\nFor the Greeks, the Titanomachy and the battle against the giants remained symbols of the victory which their own world had won over a strange universe; along with the battles against the Amazons and Centaurs they continue to signalize the Greek conquest of everything barbarous, of all monstrosity and grossness.\nAmazonomachy is also seen as the rise of feminism in Greek culture. In Quintus Smyrnaeus's \"The Fall of Troy\", Penthesilea, an Amazonian queen, who joined on the side of the Trojans during the Trojan war, was quoted at Troy, saying:\n\nNot in strength are we inferior to men; the same our eyes, our limbs the same; one common light we see, one air we breathe; nor different is the food we eat. What then denied to us hath heaven on man bestowed?\n\nAccording to Josine Blok, Amazonomachy provides two different contexts in defining a Greek hero. Either the Amazons are one of the disasters from which the hero rids the country after his victory over a monster; or they are an expression of the underlying Attis motif, in which the hero shuns human sexuality in marriage and procreation.\n\nIn the 5th century, the Achaemenid Empire of Persia began a series of invasions against Ancient Greece. Because of this, some scholars believe that on most 5th-century Greek art, the Persians were shown allegorically, through the figure of centaurs and Amazons.\n\nWarfare was a very popular subject in Ancient Greek art, represented in grand sculptural scenes on temples but also countless Greek vases. On the whole fictional and mythical battles were preferred as subjects to the many historical ones available. Along with scenes from Homer and the Gigantomachy, a battle between the race of Giants and the Olympian gods, the Amazonomachy was a popular choice.\n\nLater, in Roman art, there are many depictions on the sides of later Roman sarcophagi, when it became the fashion to depict elaborate reliefs of battle scenes. Scenes were also shown on mosaics. A trickle of medieval depictions increased at the Renaissance, and especially in the Baroque period.\n\nKalamis, a Greek sculptor, is attributed to designing the west metopes of the Parthenon, a temple on the Athenian Acropolis dedicated to the Greek goddess Athena. The west metopes of the Parthenon depict a battle between Greeks and Amazons. Despite its mutilated state, scholars generally concur that the scene represents the Amazon invasion of Attica.\n\nThe shield of Athena Parthenos, sculpted by Phidias, depicts a fallen Amazon. Athena Parthenos was a massive chryselephantine sculpture of Athena, the main cult image inside the Parthenon at Athens, which is now lost, though known from descriptions and small ancient copies.\n\nThe Bassae Frieze in the Temple of Apollo at Bassae contains a number of slabs portraying Trojan Amazonomachy and Heraclean Amazonomachy. The Trojan Amazonomachy spans three blocks, displaying the eventual death of Penthesilea at the hands of Achilles. The Heraclean Amazonomachy spans eight blocks and represents the struggle of Heracles to seize the belt of the Amazon queen Hippolyta.\n\nSeveral sections of an Amazonomachy frieze from the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus are now in the British Museum. One part depicts Heracles grasping an Amazon by the hair, while holding a club behind his head in a striking manner. This Amazon is believed to be the Amazon queen Hippolyta. Behind Heracles is a scene of a Greek warrior clashing shields with an Amazon warrior. Another slab displays a mounted Amazon charging at a Greek, who is defending himself with a raised shield. This Greek is believed to be Theseus, who joined Heracles during his labours.\n\nMicon painted the Amazonomachy on the Stoa Poikile of the Ancient Agora of Athens, which is now lost.\nPhidias depicted Amazonomachy on the footstool of the chryselephantine statue of Zeus at Olympia.\n\nIn 2018, archaeologists discovered relief-decorated shoulder boards made from bronze that were part of a breastplate of a Greek warrior at a Celtic sacrificial place near the village of Slatina nad Bebravou in Slovakia. Deputy of director of Slovak Archaeological Institute said that it is the oldest original Greek art relic in the area of Slovakia. Researchers analyzed the pieces and determined they were once part of a relief that depicted the Amazonomachy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4451432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4451432", "title": "Antigonia (Syria)", "text": "Antigonia (Syria)\n\nAntigonia () also transliterated as Antigonea and Antigoneia was a Hellenistic city in Seleucid Empire, Syria (in modern Turkey), on the Orontes, founded by Antigonus I Monophthalmus in 307 BC, and intended to be the capital of his empire; the site is approximately 7 km northeast of Antakya, Hatay Province, Turkey. After the Battle of Ipsus, 301 BC, in which Antigonus perished, the inhabitants of Antigonia were removed by his successful rival Seleucus I Nicator to the city of Antioch, which Seleucus founded a little lower down the river. (Strabo xvi. p. 750; Diod. xx. 47; Liban. Antioch. p. 349; Malalas, p. 256.) Diodorus erroneously says that the inhabitants were removed to Seleucia Pieria. Antigonia continued, however, to exist, and is mentioned in the war with the Parthians after the defeat of Crassus. (Dion Cass. xl. 29.)\n\n"}
{"id": "48219041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48219041", "title": "Athena SWAN", "text": "Athena SWAN\n\nAthena SWAN (Scientific Women’s Academic Network) is a charter established and managed by the British Equality Challenge Unit in 2005 that recognises and celebrates good practice towards the advancement of gender equality: representation, progression and success for all.\n\nThe Athena SWAN charter was established to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) employment in higher education and research.\n\nIn May 2015 the charter was expanded to include non-STEM schools, professional and support staff, technical staff, and trans staff and students. The first awards to non-STEM university departments were announced in April 2016. The charter also recognises work undertaken to address gender equality more broadly, and not just barriers to progression that affect women.\n\nMembers who sign up to the charter are expected to apply for an Athena SWAN award, at Bronze, Silver or Gold level. Each award is valid for four years under the post-2015 rules (three years where pre-2015 rules apply).\n\nThey commit to adopting ten principles, which focus on promoting and supporting gender equality for women. In particular, the charter aims to address what is known as the “leaky pipeline” of women progressing to senior roles in science by removing obstacles to their advancement, ensuring equal pay and mainstreaming support, through action at all levels across the department or organisation.\n\nAn exploratory study of women's and men's perceptions of Athena SWAN was broadly positive and highlighted the significance of government funding being linked to SWAN awards, but it also highlighted the limitations of whether the process can change longstanding and entrenched issues in society.\n"}
{"id": "889036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889036", "title": "Bible errata", "text": "Bible errata\n\nThroughout history, printers' errors and peculiar translations have appeared in Bibles published throughout the world.\n\n\nThe Book of Deer has a number of errors. In the genealogy of Jesus in the Gospel of Luke, it has Seth as the first man and grandfather of Adam.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn various printings of the King James Version of the Bible, some of the more famous examples have been given their own names. Among them are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29692418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29692418", "title": "Bibliography of Afghanistan", "text": "Bibliography of Afghanistan\n\nThis is a list of books in the English language which deal with Afghanistan and its geography, history, inhabitants, culture, biota, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2615377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2615377", "title": "Canadian response to Hurricane Katrina", "text": "Canadian response to Hurricane Katrina\n\nCanada's first response to the disaster inflicted by Hurricane Katrina along the Gulf of Mexico coastline of the United States was the deployment of a Vancouver heavy urban search and rescue team, which arrived in Lafayette, Louisiana on the evening of August 31, 2005, arriving on a WestJet Airlines aircraft. Due to security and logistics issues in the disaster area surrounding New Orleans, the team started operations on September 3, saving 30 people that day. They returned to Vancouver on September 6, reportedly saving over 110 people during their deployment. It has also accepted some evacuees to stay in Canada.\n\nThe official response by the Government of Canada to the Gulf coast disaster came on September 2, following discussions between Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Canada and the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency. The federal government announced it was deploying a task force comprising three warships—, and —along with the Coast Guard vessel and three Sea King helicopters and one BO-105 helicopter to the area.\n\nThe Canadian Forces also provided several Griffon helicopters and crews to the New England States at the request of the United States Coast Guard whose search and rescue helicopters from that area have been assigned to Gulf Coast SAR operations. Canadian aircraft were deployed as part of a North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) military assistance pact.\n\nThe task force was organized under the name \"Operation UNISON\" and involved over 1,000 personnel from the Canadian Forces and Canadian Coast Guard who were placed under the operational command of their American counterparts who were coordinating relief operations. A precedent was established with a similar humanitarian aid response by the Government of Canada following Hurricane Andrew when the Auxiliary Oil Replenishment (AOR) ship participated in \"Operation TEMPEST\", providing relief supplies and personnel in southern Florida and the Bahamas.\n\nThe ships and aircraft had the capacity to relocate people and deliver a broad range of supplies, including tents, cots, water containers and items such as men's and women's toiletries, sun screen and insect repellent. At the same time, the Public Health Agency of Canada was in contact with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and offered whatever support was required. \"We are really prepared to operate on all fronts as requested and as co-ordinated by the United States,\" said Prime Minister Paul Martin.\n\nIn an interview on National Public Radio, Canada's Ambassador to the United States said that in addition to the basic desire to help a neighbor in need, many Canadians also remember the ancestors of Louisiana's Cajuns were expelled from what would become Canada by the British in the 18th century, which he felt gave an extra historical dimension to Canadians' desire to help the people of Louisiana during the recovery operation.\n\nOn September 4, following a request from U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Government of Canada announced it was prepared to send thousands of beds, blankets, surgical gloves and dressings and other medical supplies. The Government of Canada announced it would also send 35 divers to help with the rescue effort. One of the divers' tasks would be to inspect levees.\n\nOn September 5, a team of 35 military divers was deployed from CFB Halifax and CFB Esquimalt to Pensacola, Florida. They were tasked with assisting their U.S. Navy counterparts to clear navigational hazards, including unsecured and sunken vessels and debris, and to inspect flood-damaged levees.\n\nOn September 6 the Operation UNISON task force of navy and coast guard ships departed Halifax Harbour for the U.S. Gulf Coast. The naval ships arrived at Pensacola, Florida several days later, having been delayed by further tropical storm activity off the east coast of Florida. The coast guard ship arrived several days later, due to its slower cruising speed. The Operation UNISON task force unloaded relief supplies at Pensacola and was deployed to assist along the Mississippi coast.\n\nOn September 19 it was announced that the three warships from the Operation UNISON task force would be returning to Halifax, leaving CCGS \"Sir William Alexander\" to continue its mission of clearing navigation hazards and repairing buoys. On September 28, the coast guard vessel was retasked to assist the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in repairing the network of weather buoys along the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic coasts of the United States, which had been severely damaged by the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season; these buoys are one of the most important tools for forecasting and gathering data from oceanic storms. CCGS \"Sir William Alexander\" returned to Canada on October 24.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34673215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34673215", "title": "Casa del Alabado Museum of Pre-Columbian Art", "text": "Casa del Alabado Museum of Pre-Columbian Art\n\nCasa del Alabado is a Precolumbian Art Museum located in the historic downtown area of Quito, Ecuador. The museum is located in a colonial house built in the 17th century during the Spanish Colony. It houses a collection of over 5,000 archaeological pieces, 500 of which are on permanent display.\n\nCasa del Alabado is unique in the sense that its display is organized thematically, not chronologically. The aim of the museum is to treat objects as works of art rather than archaeological remnants. \nThe display is distributed along 8 rooms with 8 different themes, which serve as representations of cultural aspects of ancient Ecuadorian cultures: their cosmology, their relationship with their ancestors, their religious ideas and rituals, and their relationship with their environment. \n\nThe museum has:\n\n8 exhibit rooms, 1 room for temporary exhibits, 2 rooms for workshops, a museum shop and 2 courtyards.\n\nOpening Hours\n\nOpen from Monday to Sunday, from 9:00am to 5:30pm.\n\n"}
{"id": "21801520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21801520", "title": "Cekeen Tumuli", "text": "Cekeen Tumuli\n\nThe tumuli of Cekeen are located in the Diourbel Department of the Diourbel Region. The Diourbel Region and the city of Diourbel were part of the precolonial Kingdom of Baol, now part of present-day Senegal. \n\nIn this area, a tumulus was used as a burial mound for chiefs. A deceased chief would be joined by other members of his court along with important objects such as furniture and other implements. In this case, he and his escort would be situated in the chief's hut, whereupon the hut was buried with soil and rocks. Thousands of such tumuli exist in Senegal, but it is in Cekeen that the biggest and most densely scattered occur.\n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on November 18, 2005 in the Cultural category.\n\n"}
{"id": "1423806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1423806", "title": "Cennino Cennini", "text": "Cennino Cennini\n\nCennino d'Andrea Cennini (c. 1360 – before 1427) was an Italian painter influenced by Giotto. He was a student of Agnolo Gaddi in Florence. Gaddi trained under his father, called Taddeo Gaddi, who trained with Giotto. \n\nCennini was born in Colle di Val d'Elsa, Tuscany. After training as an artist with Agnolo Gaddi in Florence he worked at the court of Francesco Novello da Carrara in Padua for some years before apparently returning to Colle di Val d'Elsa.\n\nHe is remembered mainly for having authored Il libro dell'arte. Thought to have been written around the turn of the 15th century, the book is a \"how to\" on late Medieval and early Renaissance painting. It contains information on pigments, brushes, drawing, panel painting, the art of fresco, painting on fabrics and casting, amongst other techniques and tricks. Cennini also mentions oil painting in passing, which was important for dispelling the myth, propagated by Giorgio Vasari and Karel Van Mander, that oil painting was invented by Jan van Eyck (although Theophilus (Roger of Helmerhausen) clearly gives instructions for oil-based painting in his treatise, On Divers Arts, written in 1125).\n\nThe dates of Cennini's life are highly speculative. It is often falsely assumed that he was alive in 1437 because that date appears on the earliest of the four extant copies of his manuscript. However, an administrative document from Colle di Val d'Elsa dated 1427 probably refers to his son; if this is the case then the document makes it clear that Cennini was dead by this time. The techniques Cennini describes range from ones which were already in use in the 13th century to ones which were innovative in the late fourteenth century. However, there is no evidence in his writing of the exciting developments in oil painting taking place in the early 15th century, suggesting that his book was written not long after the turn of the century.\n\nThe extent to which Cennini intended to provide a practical handbook for the apprentice painter is disputed. Some scholars believe that his book was a presentation book or a guild book instead. Along with technical methods, Cennini offered advice on the sort of lifestyle to which a young painter should subscribe. \"Your life should be arranged just as if you were studying theology, or philosophy, or other theories, that is to say, eating and drinking moderately, at least twice a day, electing digestible and wholesome dishes, and light wines; saving and sparing your hand, preserving it from such strains as heaving stones, crowbars, and many other things which are bad for your hand, from giving them a chance to weary it. There is another cause which, if you indulge it, can make your hand so unsteady that it will waver more, and flutter far more, than leaves do in the wind, and this is indulging too much in the company of women.\"\n\nAccording to Victoria Finlay, in her book \"Colour: Travels Through The Paintbox, the infamous UK forger\", Eric Hebborn was greatly influenced by Cennino Cennini. The last book Hebborn wrote before he was brutally murdered was \"The Art Forger's Handbook\". Finlay writes that he \"used and adapted Cennino's advice extensively - preparing panels, tinting papers different colours, and making brand new works look as if they had been varnished some time before (by beating egg-white, left overnight and then applying it with a brush), just as the master advised.\"\n\n\nIn the 1970s, Boskovits established a small oeuvre for Cennini, which has been confirmed by later scholarship. This includes frescoes in the church of San Lucchese in Poggibonsi and a panel painting depicting the birth of the Virgin in the Museo Comunale in Colle di Val d'Elsa. The two paintings pictured above were added to the corpus at a later date.\n\n"}
{"id": "20990660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20990660", "title": "Chemtou Museum", "text": "Chemtou Museum\n\nThe Chemtou Museum is an archaeological museum located in Chemtou, Tunisia. The museum was designed by archaeologists with the Tunisian National Heritage Institute and the German Archaeological Institute with offices located in Rome, Italy. It has the distinction of being located in the area of the old Roman city of Simmithu, near the entrepot's marble quarry in what was the ancient Berber kingdom of Numidia.\n\nThe exploitation of marble began on site in the 2nd century and was operated by the Roman emperors. The location of the area, not far from the Medjerda River, allowed for mass production for export.\n\nThe museum presents the archaeological discoveries made nearby. Among the remains exposed, include sandstone green schist (dated from the 3rd century BC). A tiara has also been excavated, which belonged to the Numidian royal family. In addition, there is the restored façade of a religious monument on a hill nearby.\n\nA series of Roman mill races to horizontal water turbines have also been discovered. This indicates that technologically, part of the activities at the site had been mechanised.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7160141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7160141", "title": "Chiapa de Corzo (Mesoamerican site)", "text": "Chiapa de Corzo (Mesoamerican site)\n\nChiapa de Corzo ( ) is an archaeological site of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica located near the small town Chiapa de Corzo, Chiapas.\n\nIt rose to prominence around 700-500 BC, during the Middle Formative period, becoming a regional center. By then, its public precinct had reached 18-20 ha in size, with total settlement approaching 70 ha. Because of its position near Grijalva River in the Central Depression of Chiapas, it controlled the local trade routes. \n\nThe modern township of Chiapa de Corzo, Chiapas, founded in Colonial times and after which the site was named, is nearby.\n\nThe site shows evidence of continual occupation since the Early Formative period (ca. 1200 BCE).\n\nThe mounds and plazas at the site, however, date to approximately 700 BCE with temples and palaces constructed at the end of the Late Formative or Protoclassic period, between 100 BCE and 200 CE.\n\nIn 2008, archaeologists discovered a massive Middle Formative Olmec axe deposit at the base of Chiapa de Corzo's Mound 11 pyramid. This deposit dates to around 700 BCE and is the second one of its kind found in Chiapas after nearby San Isidro. It is associated with one of the earliest E-Group astronomical complexes in Mesoamerica.\n\nIn April 2010, archaeologists discovered the 2,700-year-old tomb of a dignitary within Mound 11 that is the oldest pyramidal tomb yet discovered in Mesoamerica.\n\nAccording to archaeologist Bruce Bachand, the tomb exhibits Olmec rather than Maya affinities. This tomb predates by 600 years any other such tomb found in Mesoamerica, such as those at Tikal, and at Kaminaljuyu.\n\nThe site is believed to have been settled by Mixe–Zoquean speakers, bearers of the Olmec culture that populated the Gulf and Pacific Coasts of southern Mexico.\n\nChiapa de Corzo and a half dozen other western Depression centers appear to have coalesced into a distinct Zoque civilization by 700 BCE, an archaeological culture that became the conduit between late Gulf Olmec society and the early Maya. Certain Mesoamerican traits such as planned cities, earthen pyramids, E-Group commemorative complexes, cloudy-resist waxy pottery, incensarios, and early logographic writing may have originated in the Zoque region.\n\nStarting around 100 BCE, during its \"Guanacaste phase\", Chiapa de Corzo played the role of the regional capital. The city was linked with other areas across the Maya Lowlands, Maya Highlands, Pacific Coast, and Oaxaca. This is the time when the first hieroglyphic writing appeared on flat stamps, pottery vessels, stelae, and building panels.\n\nMaya pottery types began to be included in elite burials, although utilitarian ceramics retained traditional patterns. This has suggested to some researchers, that the Maya culture to the east exerted influence or even control over Chiapa de Corzo, although there seems to be a waning of that Maya influence in the first centuries CE. It was during this time that the ancient platform mounds were covered with limestone and stucco.\n\nBig changes occurred in the area during the \"Istmo phase\" (AD 300-400). There was an economic decline, as craft activity diminished and long-distance ties contracted.\n\nChiapa de Corzo and a number of western Depression sites were abandoned by the Late Classic period, a population change that closely coincides with the invasion of a war like group of Manguean-speaking people known as the Chiapanec.\n\nThe Chiapanec chose to occupy the adjacent floodplain of the Grijalva River where the modern town is now located, and they left the Zoque ruin on the nearby plateau untouched. The abandoned city now became a place of pilgrimage.\n\nThe site has been heavily encroached upon over the last 70 years with the construction of roads, homes, businesses, utility systems, and a cemetery. The Nestlé company constructed a large milk processing plant in the center of the ruin in the late 1960s, removing Mound 17, one of the major ceremonial mounds at the site. In recent years, the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia (INAH) has purchased sections of the site from local land owners. INAH officially opened a small portion of the ruin to tourists on December 8, 2009. The site is currently under investigation by a collaborative team of researchers from Brigham Young University, INAH-Chiapas, and Mexico's UNAM (see http://chiapadecorzo.byu.edu/).\n\nThe oldest Mesoamerican Long Count calendar date yet discovered, December 36 BCE, was found on Stela 2 (which is not a stela at all, but rather a misnamed, inscribed wall panel). All that survives of the original text is the day-name and the digits 7.16.3.2.13. \n\nChiapa de Corzo is also notable for a pottery sherd containing what is likely Epi-Olmec script. Dated to as early as 300 BCE, this sherd would be the oldest instance of that writing system yet discovered.\n\nThe site possesses possibly the earliest example of a Mesoamerican palace complex in Mound 5. This palace was constructed in the first century CE and ritually destroyed a couple centuries later.\n\nMore than 250 Formative period burials have been scientifically excavated at Chiapa de Corzo. Many derive from a unique Late Formative burial ground below the Mound 1 plaza. Chiapa de Corzo has the largest and perhaps the best chronologically subdivided Formative period burial sample in southern Mesoamerica. \n\nChiapa de Corzo has more clay cylinder seals and flat stamps than any other Formative Mesoamerican site, save Tlatilco. Hieroglyphs appear on examples made around 100 BCE.\n\n"}
{"id": "32080744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32080744", "title": "Cliff inscriptions", "text": "Cliff inscriptions\n\nCliff inscriptions () are inscriptions on mountainsides of Chinese characters, often done by famous people on special occasions or as decorations. They are of tremendous historic importance as both evidence of the presence of certain people, such as famous writers, or events as well as of the Chinese script's regional, temporal, or personal variations. Being in stone they are less prone to destruction than paper and so preserve the time in which they were made offering posterity unique glimpses into the past. Additionally, along with Chinese calligraphy, they are an art form meriting study and part of a highly specialized field within art which requires both skills in calligraphy and stone carving. The methods are likely similar to calligraphy stele or 碑 \"bēi\", such as can be found in Xi'an's Stele Forest.\n\n"}
{"id": "29819979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29819979", "title": "Cognitive hearing science", "text": "Cognitive hearing science\n\nCognitive hearing science is an interdisciplinary science field concerned with the physiological and cognitive basis of hearing and its interplay with signal processing in hearing aids. The field includes genetics, physiology, medical and technical audiology, cognitive neuroscience, cognitive psychology, linguistics and social psychology.\n\nTheoretically the research in cognitive hearing science combines a physiological model for the information transfer from the outer auditory organ to the auditory cerebral cortex, and a cognitive model for how language comprehension is influenced by the interplay between the incoming language signal and the individual's cognitive skills, especially the long-term memory and the working memory.\n\nResearchers examine the interplay between type of hearing impairment or deafness, type of signal processing in different hearing aids, type of listening environment and the individual's cognitive skills.\n\nResearch in cognitive hearing science has importance for the knowledge about different types of hearing impairment and its effects, as for the possibilities to determine which individuals can make use of certain type of signal processing in hearing aid or cochlear implant and thereby adapt hearing aid to the individual.\n\nCognitive hearing science has been introduced by researchers at the Linköping University research centre Linnaeus Centre HEAD (HEaring And Deafness) in Sweden, created in 2008 with a major 10-year grant from the Swedish Research Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "21622402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21622402", "title": "Daybreak (Battlestar Galactica)", "text": "Daybreak (Battlestar Galactica)\n\n\"Daybreak\" is the three-part series finale of the reimagined science fiction television series \"Battlestar Galactica\", and are the 74th (labeled \"Daybreak, Part 1\" on the DVD) and 75th (labeled \"Daybreak, Parts 2 & 3\" on the DVD) episodes overall. The episodes aired on the U.S. Sci Fi Channel and SPACE in Canada respectively on March 13 and March 20, 2009. The second part (\"Daybreak, Parts 2 & 3\") is double-length. The episodes were written by Ronald D. Moore, and directed by Michael Rymer. The Season 4.5 DVD and Blu-ray releases for Region 1 feature an extended version of the finale, which not only combines all three parts as a single episode, but also integrates it with new scenes not seen in the aired version of either part. The survivor count shown in the title sequence for Part 1 is 39,516. The survivor count shown in the title sequence for Part 2 is 39,406. At the end of Part 2, Admiral Adama announces the survivor population at approximately 38,000.\n\nThe episodes portray the \"Galactica\" launching a rescue mission to retrieve Hera Agathon from the \"colony\", a heavily armed and defended Cylon base located near a black hole. They manage to rescue Hera, and in the end, the fleet finds a new planet to settle on, which they come to call Earth (revealed to be our Earth). The final episodes gave \"Battlestar Galactica\" the strongest ratings since its second season, though they received mixed reviews.\n\n The flashback sequences during the course of the first part take place a few years before the Cylon attack on Caprica. William Adama (Edward James Olmos) is reluctant to undergo a lie detector test in preparation for a civilian desk job. Elsewhere, Gaius Baltar (James Callis) is getting tired of his father, Julius, who is abusive to his nurse. However, Caprica Six (Tricia Helfer) soon informs Baltar that she took his father into a care home, where he will be happier. Laura Roslin (Mary McDonnell) is living happily with her two sisters, one of whom is pregnant. But later, Roslin receives distressing news that both her sisters and father were killed in a car accident. Three months after, she is set up for a blind date and is encouraged to join Mayor Adar's presidential campaign. Lee Adama (Jamie Bamber) meets Kara Thrace (Katee Sackhoff) for the first time while she is seeing his brother, Zak (Tobias Mehler). When Lee arrives home drunk, he notices a pigeon in his house, and he chases it away. Lastly, the flashbacks focus on Anders (Michael Trucco), who is interviewed during his sporting career, where he admits to playing for the joy of the pursuit of perfection rather than the winning.\n\nBack in the present, \"Galactica\" is being stripped for parts to be used on other ships, while the military will be transferred to control the Rebel Basestar. The pictures of the fallen in the memorial hallway are also taken down. Baltar wants his people to have a seat on the quorum, but Lee refuses. Admiral Adama later decides to give amnesty to those who took part in the attempted coup d'état, as well as to Tyrol (Aaron Douglas), who is in the brig for helping Boomer (Grace Park) escape. This allows Tyrol to take part in the mission to retrieve Hera (Iliana Gomez-Martinez), who is being studied by the Cylons to determine how Cylons can reproduce. Adama announces a plan to rescue the child Hera at the colony and that it will be a one-way trip for the Galactica, and requires all Galactica personnel to either volunteer for the mission or decline in person. He and Starbuck lay a line down the center of the landing bay and personnel move to one side to volunteer or the other to remain with the Fleet. Doc Cottle (Donnelly Rhodes) attempts to join in, but is ordered back by Adama as the fleet cannot afford to lose a doctor. Several others join in the operation, including the original Cylon models, and a weakened Roslin. A Raptor is dispatched to the possible location of the \"Colony\", only to find it located very close to a black hole, but despite the circumstance, Adama orders an attack to begin and planning commences.\n\nIn flashback sequences, William Adama and Saul Tigh (Michael Hogan) celebrate their upcoming retirement, where Tigh convinces Adama to take his new job. Later, as Adama is questioned in an interview, he complains that no job is worth questioning his loyalty and decides to rejoin the military. Lee has dinner with Zak and Starbuck again. When Zak passes out, drunk, the sexual tension between Kara and Lee nearly erupts before they are interrupted by a stirring Zak. Back home, Lee again encounters the pigeon, but this time he does not chase it. Roslin meets her blind date, who happens to be a former student of hers. After they go back to her apartment, she has second thoughts and ends the date; she then calls Adar's campaign, informing them of her intention to join it. Boomer meets Adama and Tigh for the first time, where she is warned that she is on the verge of ending her career due to her inability to land a Raptor. Given one last chance, Boomer gratefully tells the two that unlike other pilots, she will repay Adama one day. Meanwhile, Baltar, believing that Caprica Six is a corporate spy, allows her access to the military defense mainframe. He says that he is not doing this for her employers, but for her.\n\nBack in the present of the series, Baltar decides to join the mission with Caprica Six at the last minute; she later admits to being proud of him for the first time. At that moment it is revealed that Baltar's Inner Six and Six's Inner Baltar are aware of each other, and the two real-life counterparts see both of them. Romo Lampkin (Mark Sheppard) is installed as president, and Hoshi (Brad Dryborough) is given command of the fleet while Adama and \"Galactica\" set off to rescue Hera. A battalion of the self-aware Cylon Centurions who are aligned with the fleet march down the flight deck - red stripes painted diagonally on their chests to distinguish them from the others.\n\n\"Galactica\" jumps right next to the colony, where they are immediately fired upon. Some of the Raptors, which are armed with nuclear weapons, make a short jump into the debris field and fly toward the back of the colony; in the process, Racetrack (Leah Cairns) and Skulls (Collin Lawrence) are killed by an asteroid. Anders has been installed into the CIC computers, and disables the Colony hybrids (Tiffany Lyndall-Knight). Starbuck's Raptor, carrying Athena and Helo, lands on the Colony - the only Raptor to make it through - and they enter to search for Hera. \"Galactica\" rams straight into the colony, where a strike team led by Apollo rappels in from \"Galactica\" to search for Hera, eventually meeting with Starbuck's squad. Hera is rescued by Boomer, who kills Simon (Rick Worthy) and finds Starbuck's team. Boomer hands Hera over to Athena (Grace Park) and tells her to \"tell the old man I owed him one.\" After her daughter is returned, Athena kills Boomer.\n\n\"Galactica\" is set upon by Cylon boarding parties arriving in \"platoon strength\", as reported to Tigh and Adama in the CIC. As Starbuck, Apollo, Athena and Helo return to the battlestar and make their way to CIC, they encounter a boarding party composed of Cavil's modern Centurions and original Cylon War models. Hera runs away in the confusion. She is spotted by Roslin, who had a vision of her while assisting with triage, and is able to hide her from the Cylons, until she disappears again. While Roslin gives chase, Baltar and Caprica Six also spot Hera and give chase as well. The chase parallels the Opera House vision shared between Athena, Roslin and Caprica Six. The chase ends in the CIC, where Cavil (Dean Stockwell) takes her hostage and demands to leave with Hera so she can be dissected and establish a method for Cylons to reproduce. Inner Six and Inner Baltar again appear jointly to Baltar, inspiring him to make the speech his entire life has led to, saying, among other things, that he sees angels, and that a divine force (\"whether God or Gods\") has entwined the destinies of both sides. Tigh provides the final incentive, saying that the Final Five will give the Cylons back resurrection (a solution to the problem of Cylon extinction) if they vow to forever go separate ways from humanity and end their pursuit. Combined, this convinces Cavil and Adama to end the war, Cavil gives Hera back and will let them leave in peace when the Final Five give the technology for resurrection.\n\nCavil calls a cease fire in preparation for the data download and the boarding parties retreat. Roslin and Adama look on as the Final Five begin the download of the technology for resurrection, with Saul and Ellen Tigh (Kate Vernon), Tory Foster (Rekha Sharma) and Galen Tyrol (Aaron Douglas) dipping their hands into Samuel Anders' (Michael Trucco) tank to transfer the data to the Colony. Ellen warns that during the download they will briefly have full knowledge of each other's memories and experiences. Tory asks that all bygones be left bygones. The download commences and the Final Five experience flashbacks to each other's lives on Earth and in the colonies. Tyrol learns then that Tory murdered his wife, Cally, and kills her in revenge before the downloading is complete. Feeling betrayed, the Cylons resume fighting; after the other Cylons in CIC are killed, Cavil commits suicide. At the same instant, a chance rock strike in the debris field causes Racetrack's dead hand to fall on the launch button for her Raptor's nuclear weapons, which were primed for launch before the Raptor's crew was lost. The missiles strike directly into the Colony, knocking it out of orbit. With \"Galactica\" still tangled in the Colony and being dragged toward the singularity along with it, Adama orders Starbuck to jump the ship away, anywhere. In a flash of inspiration, Starbuck mutters \"there must be some kind of way out of here\" and enters coordinates into the computer as if she were playing the mysterious music notes which Hera had written. \"Galactica\" jumps away and out of danger, leaving the Colony to fall to its destruction within the black hole. The war is over, and the Humans and their allies have prevailed.\n\n\"Galactica\" arrives at Kara's mysterious coordinates, its final destination as the damage caused in the battle has rendered the ship incapable of surviving any further jumps. Miraculously, the \"Galactica\" finds itself in orbit around a moon, close to a habitable world: our own Earth.\n\nHours later, the rest of the fleet joins Galactica at this new world. Lee makes the unorthodox suggestion that they abandon their technology and start afresh, while Adama and others discover primitive humans already occupying the planet. Since finding Earth had always been the goal of the Colonial Fleet, Adama suggests they call this new planet \"Earth\". The survivors - \"Galactica's\" crew, the remaining inhabitants of the fleet, and the Cylon Twos, Sixes and Eights - take basic supplies and spread out across the planet - not to colonize and impose cities like the Twelve Colonies, but to blend in with primitive early humans, adding their own human and humanoid Cylon \"genetics\" to the early humans. Anders takes control of their abandoned fleet and pilots it into the Sun, so that the new arrivals \"can give them the best part of ourselves... not the baggage... not the weapons... our hearts (rather than) our science\". The Rebel Cylons decide that their Centurions have earned their freedom, and give them control of the Basestar, which jumps away to parts unknown. Baltar and Caprica Six are visited by their Inner messengers, who inform them that their destinies - to save Hera - have been fulfilled, and the two decide to live out the rest of their lives together.\n\nWhile resting under a tree, Roslin suddenly begins to have difficulty breathing. Adama quickly places her aboard a Raptor and says a short, final goodbye to Lee and Starbuck before taking off. While admiring the wildlife below and looking for a place to build a cabin for them, Roslin dies peacefully. While Lee expresses his desire to venture off and explore the planet, Starbuck, her destiny as an Angel fulfilled, literally vanishes without a trace. Lee promises to never forget her. Tyrol decides to settle by himself on a remote northern island (implied to be the Scottish highlands). Helo (Tahmoh Penikett), Athena and Hera are reunited as a family. Tigh and Ellen stay with the rest of the survivors. Adama eventually finds the place where he will build the cabin, and buries Laura on a nearby hillside.\n\nNew York City, 150,000 years later: humanity has reached the early 21st century, and the development of robotics and computerization continues unabated. Inner Baltar and Inner Six (no longer tied to the long-deceased Gaius Baltar and Caprica Six) comment on the recent discovery of what is believed to be \"mitochondrial Eve\" in Tanzania... the remains of Hera Agathon, progenitor of modern-day humanity. Inner Six disagrees with her counterpart about humanity's next future: when a complex system repeats, something new is bound to happen, and \"this\" Earth—descendants of devastated planets Kobol, the Twelve Colonies, and the original Earth—may escape the vicious cycle of technology, surmising it to be a part of God's plan. Inner Baltar reminds her \"It doesn't like that name,\" as the two stroll away. The episode and series end with a montage showing the progress of robotics in modern society indicating that it all had happened before... and still might happen again.\n\nIn the episode's podcast, Moore and his wife Terri commented that they had trouble scouring for robot footage and clearing rights issues. They also described one of the robots as the \"most disturbing\" of the robots. \"She's freaky. She's a Six in the making\".\n\nSeveral bars of Stu Phillips' original \"Battlestar Galactica\" theme are heard at several junctions in the show, including when Adama flies the last Viper off the \"Galactica \"and when Anders flies the fleet into the sun. The final shot of the fleet leaving Earth's orbit is an exact recreation of the fleet stock shot from the original series. D'Anna Biers (played by Lucy Lawless) is the only Cylon not to appear in this episode, as her character had stayed on the original 'Cylon' Earth at the end of \"Sometimes a Great Notion.\"\n\nBefore entering coordinates on the FTL-drive control console, Starbuck says 'there must be some kind of way out of here' which is the opening lyric of Bob Dylan's song \"All Along the Watchtower\". The coordinates she enters are revealed through flashbacks to be the numerical representation of the opening notes of that same tune. The song is a recurring motif throughout the fourth season and the version sung by Jimi Hendrix is played at the end of the episode.\n\nThe episode was partially shot in the area of Kamloops, British Columbia, Canada. The original cut of the episode (all three parts) ran over four hours long.\n\nShow creator Ronald D. Moore appears in a short cameo in the epilogue, as the long haired man reading the fictional edition of National Geographic in which the archaeological story is featured.\n\n\"Daybreak (Part 2)\" was watched by 2.4 million total viewers, a 56% surge from the season three finale and the series' best numbers since the season 2.5 premiere, \"Resurrection Ship, Part 1.\" This led to a 1.7 household rating. The series finale also drew 1.5 million viewers in the key 18-to-49-year-old demographic, and 1.6 million viewers aged 25-to-54, the best in each demographic since \"Resurrection Ship, Part 2.\" The numbers do not take into account timeshifting via digital video recorders, which typically adds another 700,000 \"Battlestar Galactica\" viewers per episode.\n\nCritical reception of the finale varied. Alan Sepinwall of \"The Star Ledger\" wrote \"so the amazing four-year journey of \"Battlestar Galactica\" comes to an end, and I feel very, very good about it–even as I suspect others may not.\" Mary McNamara of the \"Los Angeles Times\" praised Moore and the writing team for \"not copping out\" and commented that it was \"hard to imagine a more visually and thematically satisfying finale\". Richard Vine of \"The Guardian\" opined that \"somehow, out of all the doom and gloom, death, destruction and nihilism we've had, \"Battlestar Galactica\" finished with something approaching a happy ending.\" He concluded that the episode was ultimately satisfying, noting that \"most of the major questions were dealt with in some form or another.\"\n\n\"Mother Jones\" magazine noted that the finale did little to genuinely resolve many plotlines and subplots, and pondered the implications for the industry. Mark Perigard of the \"Boston Herald\" concluded that \"The desire to wrap everything up in a neat package–which is so contrary to the spirit of this show–hobbled the series creators.\" \"Salon Magazine\" contrasted the finale with the rest of the series noting that the episode finished with \"40 minutes of speeches about lessons learned and the need to \"break the cycle\", the naiveté of which did indeed feel like a break— from the knowing, worldly stoicism that made \"Battlestar Galactica\" so refreshing to begin with.\" \"Time Magazine\" noted that it seemed hard to believe that an advanced culture would discard all of its technology.\n\nRenowned fantasy author George R.R. Martin expressed his extreme dissatisfaction, commenting: \"\"Battlestar Galactica\" ends with 'God Did It.' Looks like somebody skipped Writing 101, when you learn that a deus ex machina is a crappy way to end a story. Yeah, yeah, sometimes the journey is its own reward. I certainly enjoyed much of the journey with BSG. But damn it, doesn't anybody know how to write an ending any more? Writing 101, kids. Adam and Eve, God Did It, It Was All a Dream? I've seen Clarion students left stunned and bleeding for turning in stories with those endings.\" Josh Tyler of \"Blend Magazine\" concluded that the final resolution lacked credibility, but that the simple drama of the episode was one reason to view it positively.\n"}
{"id": "171512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171512", "title": "Dead Man Walking (book)", "text": "Dead Man Walking (book)\n\nDead Man Walking (1993) is a work of non-fiction by Sister Helen Prejean, a Roman Catholic nun and one of the Sisters of Saint Joseph of Medaille based in New Orleans. Arising from her work as a spiritual adviser to two convicted murderers on Death Row, the book is set largely at the Louisiana State Penitentiary (Angola) in West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. It examines moral issues related to the men's acknowledgement of their crimes and to the state's use of the death penalty.\n\nPrejean has become a leading American advocate for the abolition of the death penalty. Her campaign was initiated following her correspondence and visits that she maintained with two convicted murderers. She started this ministry in 1982. The first man was Elmo Patrick Sonnier, who was sentenced to death by electric chair. She visited Sonnier in prison and agreed to be his spiritual adviser in the months leading up to his death. The second was Robert Lee Willie, for whom she also served as spiritual adviser.\n\nPrejean gained insight into the minds of these convicted murderers and the process involved in executions, including its effects on the prison guards and other personnel. She became convinced that the state's use of the death penalty was morally wrong and began speaking out against capital punishment. At the same time, she founded \"Survive\", an organization devoted to providing counseling to the families of victims of violence.\n\nThe title of the book comes from a phrase once traditional in American prisons, to designate a man condemned to death. They were held on what was known as Death Row, deprived of most social contact and unable to work or participate in prison programs. Prior to the 1960s, when guards would lead a condemned man down the prison hallway, they would call out, \"Dead man walking! Dead man walking here!\" The origin of the phrase is debated. It may have been to warn other staff or prisoners, to let them know they should be on their guard since a death row prisoner has nothing to lose and could be violent. It may also have been a kind of honorific declamation, to let other prisoners know that they should move out of the way - death row prisoners being seen as an elite within the prison system. Alternatively, the call may have been a stigma attached to the condemned man, to remind others within earshot not to touch him in order not to catch his bad luck. In any case, its symbolism is clear: the condemned prisoner, in the eyes of the law, was dead already.\n\nIn 1995, a film based on the book was made, starring Susan Sarandon and Sean Penn.\n\nThe book was adapted as an opera of the same name, composed by Jake Heggie with a libretto by playwright Terrence McNally. It premiered at the San Francisco Opera in October 2000. The international premiere of the opera was in August 2003, in Adelaide. It has been produced in several other cities, including by the Union Avenue Opera in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17085246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17085246", "title": "Diminution (satire)", "text": "Diminution (satire)\n\nDiminution is a satirical technique. It reduces the size of something in order that it may be made to appear ludicrous, or in order to be closely examined. For example, if the Canadian Members of Parliament are portrayed as squabbling, spoiled little boys and girls, this would be diminution. A diminutive satire is \"Gulliver's Travels\".\n"}
{"id": "47508325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47508325", "title": "English Broadside Ballad Archive", "text": "English Broadside Ballad Archive\n\nThe English Broadside Ballad Archive (EBBA) is a digital library of 17th-century English Broadside Ballads, a project of the English Department of the University of California, Santa Barbara. The project archives ballads in multiple accessible digital formats.\n\nThe English Broadside Ballad Archive was created in 2003 by Patricia Fumerton, Professor of English at UCSB to digitize broadside ballads of the heyday of the 17th century. Many of these ballads are currently held in difficult to access libraries in both North America and the United Kingdom, often in fragile condition, and EBBA’s aim is to make them accessible to users in a variety of digital formats. Since then, EBBA has received six Collections and Resources grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), an NEH Digital Humanities Start-Up Grant, and Faculty Research Grants and Instructional Improvement Grants from the University of California, Santa Barbara. As of August 2015, the project has archived over 7000 of the estimated 11,000 extant broadside ballads.\n\nAs of August 2015, EBBA has archived 7,124 broadside ballads, from 20 different collections held at six different libraries worldwide. The collections range from the very well-known and recognized by name - such as those housed at the Pepys Library of Magdalene College, Cambridge - to the relatively unknown. The project has currently archived ballads from the following libraries, with partnerships in place to begin archiving ballads from several other libraries in the next two years.\n\n\nIn addition to cataloging all of its holdings exhaustively, EBBA archives ballads in up to five different formats, all designed to make the ballads more accessible to modern scholars and members of the public.\n\nAll ballads are archived on the website as a high quality, 600 dpi image of the ballad sheet, trimmed with a 2mm margin.\n\nThose ballads that were pasted into albums or archived in any format other than loose-leaf are also archived on the website in another high quality photograph of the ballad sheet on its surrounding album page.\n\nAll ballads, often originally rendered in difficult to read black letter, or Gothic font, and other early modern typefaces, are transcribed into Times New Roman using a diplomatic double-keyed transcription process, and those transcriptions are included in the archive.\n\nAll ballads are archived in Facsimile Transcriptions, in which the original blocks of text from the Ballad Facsimile have been replaced with blocks of text from the modern transcription, resulting in an image that preserves the visual experience of the original ballad, including woodcut impression illustrations, yet is easily readable by a modern audience.\n\nMany broadside ballads include a tune imprint, indicating to which well-known tune they were meant to be sung. For those ballads for which EBBA has been able to identify the tune, recordings of the sung ballad are available on the archive.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34640932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34640932", "title": "Fair Housing Assistance Program", "text": "Fair Housing Assistance Program\n\nThe Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP) is a federal program that is administered by the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The FHAP program provides funding annually on a noncompetitive basis to State and local agencies that enforce fair housing laws that are substantially equivalent to the Fair Housing Act. \nEligible grantees must be a state or local agency that enforces a fair housing law that is substantially equivalent to the Fair Housing Act. This means that the law provides substantive rights, procedures, remedies, and judicial review provisions that are similar to those under the Fair Housing Act. In determining eligibility, HUD may also take into consideration whether the jurisdiction is already served by a FHAP agency. \nA number of activities are eligible for funding. FHAP-funded activities may include fair housing administrative and enforcement activities, including complaint processing, training, implementation of data and information systems, and other special projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "786961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=786961", "title": "Finance charge", "text": "Finance charge\n\nIn United States law, a finance charge is any fee representing the cost of credit, or the cost of borrowing. It is interest accrued on, and fees charged for, some forms of credit. It includes not only interest but other charges as well, such as financial transaction fees. Details regarding the federal definition of finance charge are found in the Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z, promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board.\n\nIn personal finance, a finance charge may be considered simply the dollar amount paid to borrow money, while interest is a percentage amount paid such as annual percentage rate (APR). These definitions are narrower than the typical dictionary definitions or accounting definitions.\n\nCreditors and lenders use different methods to calculate finance charges. The most common formula is based on the average daily balance, in which daily outstanding balances are added together and then divided by the number of days in the month.\n\nIn financial accounting, interest is defined as any charge or cost of borrowing money. Interest is a synonym for finance charge. In effect, the accountant looks at the entire cost of settlement on a Housing and Urban Development (HUD) form 1 (the HUD-1 Settlement Statement) document as interest unless that charge can be identified as an escrow amount or an amount that is charged to current expenses or expenditures other than interest, such as payment of current or prorated real estate taxes.\n"}
{"id": "3207976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3207976", "title": "First Monday (journal)", "text": "First Monday (journal)\n\nFirst Monday is a monthly peer-reviewed open access academic journal covering research on the Internet.\n\nThe journal is sponsored and hosted by the University of Illinois at Chicago. It is published on the first Monday of every month. In 2011, the journal had an acceptance rate of about 15%.\n\nThe journal has no article processing charges and no advertisements. \n\nAccording to the chief editor, Edward Valauskas, the journal emerged before the open access model emerged:\n“We didn’t call it open access in 1995 but we were certainly a precursor to the whole notion of open access. We felt very strongly that the journal should have all its content made freely available and we insisted with [the Danish publisher] Munksgaard that the scholars who contributed would retain copyright of their work that they published in the journal. We felt it would encourage scholars to contribute and then re-use their content in lots of different ways\".\n\n\"First Monday\" originated in the summer of 1995 with a proposal to start a new Internet-only, peer-reviewed journal about the Internet by eventual editor-in-chief Edward J. Valauskas to Munksgaard, a Danish publisher. Munksgaard agreed to publish the journal in September 1995. The first issue appeared on 6 May 1996, the first Monday of May, also the opening of the Fifth International World Wide Web Conference in Paris. The first issue was distributed at that conference on diskette as well as released on the Internet from a server in Copenhagen at the address www.firstmonday.dk.\n\nIn December 1998, Munksgaard sold the journal to three of the editors: Edward J. Valauskas, Esther Dyson, and Rishab Aiyer Ghosh. The server was moved from Copenhagen to the University of Illinois at Chicago’s Library. The first issue based on a server in Chicago appeared 4 January 1999.\n\nThe first \"First Monday\" conference took place 4–6 November 2001 in Maastricht at the International Institute of Infonomics. To celebrate \"First Monday’s\" 10th birthday in 2006, a conference took place at the University of Illinois at Chicago, 15–17 May 2006. The theme of the conference was \"Openness: Code, science and content.\" Over 200 participants from over 30 countries took part in the meeting. Papers from the Conference were published in the June and July issues. The conference was sponsored by The Open Society Institute, The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, The University of Illinois at Chicago University Library and The Maastricht Economic Research Institute on Innovation and Technology (MERIT), University of Maastricht.\n"}
{"id": "39131926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39131926", "title": "Forensic rhetoric", "text": "Forensic rhetoric\n\nForensic rhetoric, as coined in Aristotle's \"On Rhetoric\", encompasses any discussion of past action including legal discourse—the primary setting for the emergence of rhetoric as a discipline and theory. This contrasts with deliberative rhetoric and epideictic rhetoric, which are reserved for discussions concerning future and present actions respectively.\n\nIn contemporary times, the word \"forensic\" is commonly associated with criminal and civil law referring specifically to forensic science. It is important to note that the term \"forensic\" associated with criminal investigation exists because forensic (or judicial) rhetoric first existed.\n\nAn introduction of the three types of rhetoric (forensic, deliberative, and epideictic) occurs in Book I Chapter III of Aristotle's \"On Rhetoric\". Discussion of forensic rhetoric is found in Book I Chapters X-XV, outlined as follows:\n\n\nAccording to George A. Kennedy, rhetoric emerged as a response to legal freedoms introduced in Greece around 467BC. \"Citizens found themselves involved in litigation... and were forced to take up their own cases before the courts. A few clever Sicilians developed simple techniques for effective presentation and argumentation in the law courts and taught them to others.\" Thus, trained capacity in speech-making and the theory about such speech-making exists because of legal exigencies.\n\nThe Stasis Doctrine, proposed by Hermagoras, is an approach to systematically analyze legal cases, which many scholars include in their treatises of rhetoric, most famously in Cicero’s \"De Inventione.\" Encyclopedia author James Jasinski describes this doctrine as taxonomy to classify relevant questions in a debate and the existence or nonexistence of a fact in law. The Stasis Doctrine is incorporated in rhetoric handbooks today.\n\nSince forensic rhetoric’s original purpose was to win courtroom cases, legal aids have been trained in it since legal freedoms emerged. Because in early law courts, citizens were expected to represent themselves and training in forensic rhetoric was very beneficial. In ancient Athens, litigants in a private law suit and defendants in a criminal prosecution were expected to handle their own case before the court - a practice that Aristotle approved of. The hearings would consist of questions addressed to the litigant/defendant and were asked by a member of the Court, or the litigants could ask one another; these circumstances did not call for legal or oratorical talent - therefore oratory or legalism was not expected, encouraged, or appreciated. After the time of Solon, the Court of Areopagus was replaced and the litigant/defendant would deliver a prepared speech before the courts to try and sway the jury; they expected dramatic and brilliant oratorical displays. Now, listeners appreciated oratorical and even legalistic niceties, such as appeals to passion, piety, and prejudice. It was at this point in Athens history where the forensic speech-writer made his first appearance. The speech-writer would prepare an address which the litigant/defendant memorized and delivered before the court. Forensic speech-writing and oratory soon became an essential part of general rhetoric. After the nineteenth century, forensic rhetoric “became the exclusive province of lawyers,” as it essentially remains today. These people were experts in the court system and dominated forensic rhetoric, since it is tied to past events—thus the relationship between law and rhetoric was solidified.\n\nThe critical legal studies movement occurred because as John L. Lucaites, a prominent author on the subject, concluded both legal studies and rhetorical scholars desire to demystify complex law discourse. His task was to \"explore how 'the law'—conceptualized as a series of institutional procedures and relationships—functions within a larger 'rhetorical culture'.\"\n\nAuthor James Boyd White cultivated the law and literature movement, promoting the relationship between law and rhetoric at the constitutive level of discourse. The name \"law and literature\" relates to both the study of law in literature (such as legal fiction) and law as literature (the community built from a discourse community). This movement asserts that the process of interpretation, both in law and literature, is rhetorical: \"interpretation is a process of constructing arguments and the meaning of a text emerges through rhetorical interaction.\"\n"}
{"id": "506242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506242", "title": "Gambier Parry process", "text": "Gambier Parry process\n\nThe Gambier Parry process is a development of the classical technique of fresco for painting murals, named for Thomas Gambier Parry.\n\nTrue fresco is the technique of painting on fresh lime plaster whereby the pigments are fixed by the carbonatation of the lime (calcium hydroxide). The technique requires no other binding medium and the fixing process produces a durable crystalline paint layer. However, only a limited range of pigments are suitable for true frescoes and the technique requires careful application under controlled conditions, and relatively low humidity thereafter. In some environments, conventional fresco colours can rapidly accumulate dirt and grime. The decoration of the new Houses of Parliament in the mid-nineteenth century saw an embarrassing failure of true fresco in England but had generated a revival in mural painting. \n\nGambier Parry developed a spirit medium for use on a specially prepared plaster or canvas ground and in 1862 he published his recipe. Originally it used beeswax, oil of spike lavender, spirits of turpentine, elemi resin and copal varnish, and was complex both in preparing the wall surface and applying the paint. With commercialisation the process was simplified and became widely known.\n\nThe system was used by Frederic Leighton for \"The Arts of Industry as Applied to War\" and \"The Arts of Industry as Applied to Peace\" at the Victoria & Albert Museum (1870-72) and by Ford Madox Brown on the \"Manchester Murals\" in Manchester Town Hall (1879-93). One of the most complete examples of the Gambier Parry process may be seen at St Leonard's Church, Newland, Worcestershire where frescoes cover the interior of the church; St Leonard's is the private chapel of the Beauchamp Almshouses.\n"}
{"id": "3144642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3144642", "title": "Gezer calendar", "text": "Gezer calendar\n\nThe Gezer calendar is a small inscribed limestone tablet discovered in 1908 by Irish archaeologist R. A. Stewart Macalister in the ancient Canaanite city of Gezer, 20 miles west of Jerusalem. It is commonly dated to the 10th century BCE, although the excavation was unstratified and its identification during the excavations was not in a \"secure archaeological context\", presenting uncertainty around the dating.\n\nScholars are divided as to whether the language is Phoenician or Hebrew and whether the script is Phoenician (or Proto-Canaanite) or paleo-Hebrew.\n\nThe calendar is inscribed on a limestone plaque and describes monthly or bi-monthly periods and attributes to each a duty such as harvest, planting, or tending specific crops. \n\nThe inscription is in Phoenician or paleo-Hebrew script:<br>\n\n.<br>\n.<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n\nWhich in equivalent square Hebrew letters is as follows:\nThis corresponds to the following transliteration, with spaces added for word divisions:\n\nThe text has been translated as:\n\nScholars have speculated that the calendar could be a schoolboy's memory exercise, the text of a popular folk song or a children's song. Another possibility is something designed for the collection of taxes from farmers.\n\nThe scribe of the calendar is probably \"Abijah\", which means \"Yah (a shortened form of the Tetragrammaton) is my father\". This name appears in the Bible for several individuals, including a king of Judah (1 Kings 14:31).\n\nThe calendar was discovered in 1908 by R.A.S. Macalister of the Palestine Exploration Fund while excavating the ancient Canaanite city of Gezer, 20 miles west of Jerusalem. \n\nThe Gezer calendar is currently displayed at the Museum of the Ancient Orient, a Turkish archaeology museum, as is the Siloam inscription and other archaeological artifacts unearthed before World War I. A replica of the Gezer calendar is on display at the Israel Museum, Israel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49509342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49509342", "title": "Green Dragon (order)", "text": "Green Dragon (order)\n\nGreen Dragon was a mystical Tibetan or Japanese occult Order, mentioned since the beginning of 20th century. Probably mainly the organization was popularized through the book \"The Morning of the Magicians\".\n\nIt is claimed that the Order collaborated with Theosophical Society and Thule Society. Influenced the well-known secular figures in Europe, traveled to the East - to Tibet and Japan. It is claimed that the alleged in the capture of Berlin in World War II, the Nazis were discovered Tibetan (or Kalmyk) appearance.\n\nRumor had membership in the Order Peter Badmayev, empress Alexandra Feodorovna, Grigory Rasputin, Karl Haushofer.\n\n"}
{"id": "7607744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7607744", "title": "Implicit and explicit atheism", "text": "Implicit and explicit atheism\n\nImplicit atheism and explicit atheism are types of atheism. In George H. Smith's \"Atheism: The Case Against God\", \"implicit atheism\" is defined as \"the absence of theistic belief without a conscious rejection of it\", while \"explicit atheism\" is \"the absence of theistic belief due to a conscious rejection of it\". Explicit atheists have considered the idea of deities and have rejected belief that any exist. Implicit atheists, though they do not themselves maintain a belief in a god or gods, have not rejected the notion or have not considered it further.\n\n\"Implicit atheism\" is \"the absence of theistic belief without a conscious rejection of it\". \"Absence of theistic belief\" encompasses all forms of non-belief in deities. This would categorize as implicit atheists those adults who have never heard of the concept of deities, and those adults who have not given the idea any real consideration. Also included are agnostics who assert they do not believe in any deities (even if they claim not to be atheists), and children. As far back as 1772, Baron d'Holbach said that \"All children are born Atheists; they have no idea of God\". Smith is silent on newborn children, but clearly identifies as atheists some children who are unaware of any concept of any deity:\nSmith observes that some motivations for explicit atheism are rational and some not. Of the rational motivations, he says:\nFor Smith, critical, explicit atheism is subdivided further into three groups:\n\nFor the purposes of his paper on \"philosophical atheism\", Ernest Nagel chose to attach only the explicit atheism definition for his examination and discussion:\nIn Nagel's \"Philosophical Concepts of Atheism\", he very much agrees with Smith on the three-part subdivision of \"explicit atheism\" above, though Nagel does not use the term \"explicit\".\n\nThe specific narrow focus on positive atheism taken by some professional philosophers like Nagel on the one hand, compared with the scholarship on traditional negative atheism of freethinkers like d'Holbach and Smith on the other has been attributed to the different concerns of professional philosophers and layman proponents of atheism, \n\nEveritt (2004) makes the point that professional philosophers are more interested in the grounds for giving or withholding assent to propositions:\n\nSo, sometimes in philosophy (Flew, Martin and Nagel notwithstanding), only the explicit \"denial of theistic belief\" is examined, rather than the broader, implicit subject of atheism.\n\nThe terms \"weak atheism\" and \"strong atheism\", also known as \"negative atheism\" and \"positive atheism\", are usually used by Smith as synonyms of the less well-known \"implicit\" and \"explicit\" categories. \"Strong explicit\" atheists assert that it is false that any deities exist. \"Weak explicit\" atheists assert they do not believe in deities, and do not assert it is \"true\" that deities do not exist. Those who do not believe any deities exist, and do not assert their non-belief are included among implicit atheists. Among weak implicit atheists are included the following: children and adults who have never heard of deities; people who have heard of deities but have never given the idea any considerable thought; and those agnostics who suspend belief about deities, but do not reject such belief.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39977923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39977923", "title": "Lead contamination in Oakland", "text": "Lead contamination in Oakland\n\nLead contamination in Oakland represents a serious and persistent public health threat. Significant portions of the City of Oakland, California have soil lead levels far in excess of 400 ppm, the level that the US EPA suggests remedial action be taken at, and far higher than 80 ppm, the level that California’s Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment suggests action should be taken at. Lead contamination in modern Oakland comes from three primary sources: remnants from previous industry, deposits from pre-ban leaded gasoline, and paint chips from pre-ban leaded paints. Not all areas of Oakland are affected equally: West Oakland's contamination is especially severe, particularly near the former Oakland Army Base, and many of Oakland's poorer neighborhoods also suffer disproportionately (since residents often lack the socioeconomic resources to remediate their lawns, or even to repaint their houses).\n\nHigh blood levels of lead have been linked to a wide variety of health problems, including severe gastrointestinal, neuromuscular, and neurological symptoms. These problems are especially significant in children, and childhood lead poisoning can lead to behavioral problems, developmental disorders, and permanent decreases in IQ.\n\nOakland is a historical center of heavy industry, but much of this industry left the city during the 1980s and early 1990s. This loss of a large number of well-paying blue collar jobs led to a significant decline in the financial situation of many Oaklanders, and most of the closed manufacturing plants did not perform environmental remediation before shutting down, leaving many former industrial areas heavily polluted with lead and other contaminants. The Port of Oakland is the fourth busiest port in the United States in terms of container traffic, and Oakland was also historically one of the largest rail hubs on the west coast of the United States.\n\nOakland was also an early center of car culture, and extensive highway development began to take place starting in the 1950s. Leaded gasoline was in widespread use in the United States for much of the 20th century, with lead levels gradually being reduced starting in the early 1970s, and leaded gasoline finally being completely banned in 1996. The use of leaded gasoline contributed greatly to lead contamination in Oakland, especially in areas of the city near its highways.\n\nLead-based paints were commonly used in Oakland until its ban in 1978, and as many as 85,000 still extant houses built in Oakland in that time period likely used lead paint. Paint chips or dust from pre-1978 paint contributes greatly to lead pollution in Oakland. A variety of lead paint abatement programs are available in Oakland run by local governments and non-profits, but most have been of limited impact.\n\nThe former Oakland Army Base, closed in 1999, is significantly polluted by a variety of substances, including lead. Sources of lead contamination include the weathering of lead-based paint, repainting vehicles, leaded gasoline, and other factors. During the time period when the Army was remediating the base, many areas of the base failed to meet their remediation goals.\n\nThere was formerly a large chemical distribution facility run by AMCO Chemical at 1414 3rd Street, just one block south of the West Oakland BART station. From the 1960s until 1989, bulk chemicals were off-loaded from a rail spur onsite and stored in drums and storage tanks before being transferred to smaller containers for resale. Bulk chemical storage facilities included 12 aboveground tanks, two underground tanks, and numerous drums. AMCO's operations heavily contaminated the surrounding area with a variety of compounds, included chlorinated solvents, vinyl chloride, dioxins, PCBs volatile organic compounds, arsenic, manganese, and significant quantities of lead. Some of these compounds have either contaminated nearby properties, seeped into the ground water, or both. The facility has been declared a federal superfund site.\n\nSoil lead levels both at the AMCO site itself and at many nearby residential properties exceed safety limits, and pose a threat to human safety. Most other contaminants stemming from the AMCO plant have not spread as widely as the lead has. As with most other lead contaminated areas, other sources of lead exist, such as lead paint and leaded gasoline.\n\nVerdese Carter Park is a municipal park found at the corner of 96th Avenue and Bancroft, in the Elmhurst district of East Oakland, a primarily African-American and Latino community where most residents are below the poverty line. Between 1912 and 1975 the bottom half of the site was occupied by a plant that broke open used batteries and melted their lead to manufacture new batteries, while the top half of the site was occupied by a greenhouse. Both properties were acquired by the City of Oakland in 1976, and, after two actions aimed at removing lead contaminated soil, the park opened to the public in 1978. Before the initial city removal actions, testing found as much as 100,000 ppm lead in the soil of the park.\n\nThese removal actions were ineffective at making the park safe, particularly because the protective dome the city installed had not been maintained or checked and had cracked. In 1993, the African American Development Organization lead a drive to force the government to evaluate the safety of the park, after a yellow-white substance had begun to ooze out of cracks in basketball courts in the park. Later that same year, the City of Oakland fenced off the park and began testing the area, the EPA was also involved. The EPA's evaluation of the site found that soil lead levels as high as 6,700 ppm were still present in the park, as well as zinc levels in excess of 7,450 ppm, and arsenic levels in excess of 700ppm. The evaluation also found that residential properties within seven blocks of the park also had significantly elevated levels of lead, in some cases as high as 10,000 ppm. (84% of houses in the area were built before 1950, and were thus extant while the battery plant was still operational.) Elevated levels of lead, presumably from the park, were also found at a nearby elementary school. Although much of the contamination in these areas was likely due to the park, lead paint and leaded gas from nearby highways probably contributed to the contamination as well. An additional series of actions were taken by joint local, state, and federal agencies between 1993 and 1996 aimed to remediate the park and surrounding residential properties. The park reopened in 1996, and cleanup of all nearby residential properties with a soil lead concentration >1000 ppm was performed by AlliedSignal (the owner of the plant, and its final completion was agreed to by the EPA in 2001 in a way that absolved AliedSignal of any future liability.\n\nSouth Prescott is a hundred year old neighborhood in West Oakland; due to past industrial activity and leaded gas neighborhood soil averaged 800 ppm lead before a major EPA-led cleanup. Some of the most contaminated areas of the neighborhood had soil lead levels in excess of 2700 ppm. The EPA-led cleanup used ground up bones from pollock to convert elemental lead in the soil to pyromorphite, a compound that is harmless even if it is ingested. The cleanup successfully remediated around 95% of residential properties in South Prescott, as well as all public right-of-ways.\n\nThe Cypress Street Viaduct was an unconventional raised two-tiered portion of the Nimitz Freeway that ran through a 1.6 mile stretch of Oakland, bordering South Prescott. The viaduct had been routed through a socio-economically depressed neighborhood originally, and during its construction community groups raised objections that it would destroy an existing vibrant neighborhood, and suggested that a freeway route would not be proposed in a similar way in a wealthier community. Since leaded gasoline was not banned in the US until 1996, traffic through the original viaduct resulted in neighborhoods surrounding it becoming heavily contaminated with lead.\n\nThe viaduct was extensively damaged during the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake. As part of its earthquake relief efforts, the federal government allocated some $700 million to reconstruct the viaduct, with its route shifted somewhat to the west into another pre-existing neighborhood. A variety of community groups led by the Church of the Living God Faith Tabernacle and the Clean Air Alternative Coalition filed suit against the federal government in 1993 in an effort to require the reconstruction of the viaduct to reposition it in a way that would minimize its effect on the surrounding community, arguing that its suggested placement would have a disproportionate effect on predominately minority communities, including placing a heavy load of lead and other pollutants on them. The lawsuit was not successful, but an out of court settlement did somewhat alter the placement of the reconstructed freeway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2527031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2527031", "title": "List of animal sounds", "text": "List of animal sounds\n\nThis is a list of words used in the English language to represent the noises and vocalizations of particular animals, especially noises used by animals for communication. Words on the list are in the form of verbs, though many can also be used as nouns or interjections, including many onomatopoeias (additional ones here abbreviated \"OP\"). \n\n"}
{"id": "2973404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2973404", "title": "List of empires", "text": "List of empires\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of empires. The table may be resorted by other columns if your browser supports this function.\n\nThese governments, confederations and other entities have sometimes been informally referred to as \"empires\". Some did not fit the modern definition of empire (e.g. the Delian League), some were self-proclaimed by their first and often last ruler, others were short-lived attempts to turn an existing government into an empire, and there are also instances of the word \"empire\" being used to refer to unofficial spheres of influence which do not consider themselves empires.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22846421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22846421", "title": "Luciano Petech", "text": "Luciano Petech\n\nLuciano Petech (8 June 1914, Trieste – 29 September 2010, Rome) was an Italian scholar of Himalayan history and the early relations between Tibet, Nepal and Italy. He was Chair of History of Eastern Asia at the University of Rome from 1955 to 1984. He is the most renowned of the students of the Italian explorer, academic and Asian scholar Giuseppe Tucci.\n\nLuciano Petech was born in 1914 and retired in 1984. He learned almost all European languages, included Latin, as well as Tibetan, Chinese, Japanese, Newari, Sanskrit, Arabic, Hindi and Urdu. \n\nPetech began his teaching career in India at 25 years old, as a reader in Italian at the University of Allahabad from 1938 to 1946. His first recorded article is for the \"Calcutta Review\" in 1939. His subject was the dramas and stories of the great Italian author Luigi Pirandello, who had recently died two years after being awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. He says “the people” in Italy had unfairly turned their backs on the intellectual Pirandello as unrepresentative of the times (Petech 1939: 13) and as not speaking to their hearts (idem: 24).\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II, as an Italian enemy alien in British India, Petech spent most of that time in a civil internment camp. Petech used this time to study Tibetan literature and write an article on the chronological system of the 15th-century Blue Annals of Tibet. Unlike Tucci, a staunch collaborator with the Fascist regime, Petech was apolitical.\n\nPetech returned to Europe in 1947,to temporary teaching appointments at the Istituto Orientale of Naples and University of Rome. For the next 8 years, he wrote 30 pieces of varying length on Asia, always focused on the meeting of different cultures from Asia or Europe, in areas bordering India.\n\nFrom 1955 to 1984, he held the chair of History of Eastern Asia in Rome University, publishing 14 books and over 80 articles on Asia. At the end of this period, the foreword to the anthology of his selected articles, made to mark his retirement, praised his ‘objective, calm and sensible judgment, his willingness to cooperate, and his learning’ (Petech 1988: viii).\n\nThese traits are evident in his many works. In his books on Ladakh, Nepal and Tibet from medieval to modern times, his approach has the outward appearance of “history”—unimpeded by philosophy or superstition—unlocked through a serious and critical engagement with historical sources that are described before any of the events described in them.\n\nIn his magisterial seven volume \"‘I Missionari Italiani nel Tibet e nel Nepal\", Petech made available a mine of contemporary missionary accounts which are still invaluable source materials. \n\nPetech’s monographs attempt to bring Himalayan history into the light of world history. This aim was always to be appreciated, and, as Herbert Franke noted in 1950 when Petech published “China and Tibet in the early 18th century”,\n\nIt may be considered as a fortunate coincidence... just now when the Chinese government tries to establish again its suzerainty over the land of snow because it will enable the reader to get a clear notion how the Chinese protectorate in Tibet came into being. (Franke 1950)\n\nThese are sentiments with which many would thoroughly agree. However, Petech’s early attempts also tend to subsume unique events within western explanatory frameworks. In 1947 he wrote:\nAs to Ladakh, there is little to be said. It suffered the fate of all countries which tried to build an empire without that indispensable foundation, a sufficiently large population of the home country. (1988 [1947]: 39)\nThis attempt to universalise the process of empire-building also has politically loaded connotations in a time when Italy had just failed to regain the Roman Empire, thwarted by the dwindling imperial powers of Britain and France and the new empire, America.\n\nWhen he returned to the topic of Ladakh in 1977, he admitted that ‘I found my first effort hopelessly obsolete’ (1977: xi). His second treatment is more nuanced, and he finally explains the collapse of Ladakhi power with more of an emphasis on economic overstretch (idem: 79).\n\n\"Central Tibet and the Mongols\", Petech’s latest book-length study, is a more fluidly written narrative, character-led and more descriptive in tone. It is still authoritative, and has naturally overtaken Tucci’s work on the same period. As Elliot Sperling wrote in his 1995 review:\n...since the 1949 publication of Giuseppe Tucci’s Tibetan Painted scrolls [and in] the absence of any single monograph dedicated to the public, this last work was often taken by default as the main secondary source on the subject...[While] “Central Tibet and the Mongols” is a relatively short work and leaves a few subjects less than fully explored... [it] is now the basic secondary source to which students of Yuan-Tibetan relations must turn. (\"Journal of the American Oriental Society\" 115.2 (1995): 342–3)\n\nPetech’s most prominent students are Piero Corradini in East Asian studies and Elena De Rossi Filibeck in Tibetan studies.\n\nLuciano Petech died in his home on 19 September 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3439916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3439916", "title": "Mairzy Doats", "text": "Mairzy Doats\n\n“Mairzy Doats” is a novelty song written and composed, in 1943, by Milton Drake, Al Hoffman, and Jerry Livingston. It was first played on radio station WOR, New York, by Al Trace and his Silly Symphonists. The song made the pop charts several times, with a version by the Merry Macs reaching No. 1 in March 1944. The song was also a number one sheet music seller, with sales of over 450,000 within the first three weeks of release.\n\nThe song's refrain, as written on the sheet music, seems meaningless:\n\nHowever, the lyrics of the bridge provide a clue:\n\nThis hint allows the ear to translate the final line as \"a kid'll eat ivy, too; wouldn't you?\"\n\nMilton Drake, one of the writers, said the song had been based on an English nursery rhyme. According to this story, Drake's four-year-old daughter came home singing, \"Cowzy tweet and sowzy tweet and liddle sharksy doisters.\" (Cows eat wheat and sows eat wheat and little sharks eat oysters.)\n\nDrake joined Hoffman and Livingston to come up with a tune for the new version of the rhyme, but for a year no one was willing to publish a \"silly song.\" Finally, Hoffman pitched it to his friend Al Trace, bandleader of the Silly Symphonists. Trace liked the song and recorded it. It became a huge hit, most notably with the Merry Macs' 1944 recording.\n\nThe scholars Iona and Peter Opie have noted that the last two lines of the song appear in an old catch which, when said quickly, appears to be in Latin:\n<poem>In fir tar is,\nIn oak none is,\nIn mud eels are,\nIn clay none are,\nGoat eat ivy,\nMare eat oats.</poem>\n\nThey trace the origin of the joke to a manuscript of about 1450 which has \"Is gote eate yvy? Mare eate ootys\".\n\nIn 1958, New Orleans R&B singer Tommy Ridgley released a rock and roll version of \"Mairzy Doats\" on the Herald Records label as a 7\" 45 rpm single (number 526).\n\nIn 1959, Dodie Stevens released \"Mairzy Doats\" as her first recording under Dot Records.\n\nAlso in 1959, The Mark IV released the song as a 7\" single on Mercury Records.\n\nBing Crosby included the song in a medley on his album \"Join Bing and Sing Along \" (1959)\n\nIn 1963, an up-tempo rock and roll version of \"Mairzy Doats\" was also recorded by Carlo Mastrangelo of the Belmonts and released as a 7\" record on Laurie Records the same year.\n\n\"Mairzy Doats\" received a minor revival in 1967, when it was recorded by The Innocence, who took it to Number 75 on the Pop Top 100 on Kama Sutra Records.\n\nSpike Jones was among several other artists who covered it, characteristically substituting sound effects for the \"food\" words. \n\nLiverpool comedian Arthur Askey sang a version based on local names: \"Mersey Docks and Harbour Board/And ferries to New Brighton...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12284159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12284159", "title": "Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe", "text": "Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe\n\nMémoires d'Outre-Tombe () is the memoir of François-René de Chateaubriand (1768–1848), collected and published posthumously in two volumes in 1849 and 1850, respectively. Chateaubriand was a writer, politician, diplomat, and historian who is regarded as the founder of French Romanticism.\n\nAlthough the work shares characteristics with earlier French \"memoirs\" (like the \"Memoirs\" of Saint-Simon), the \"Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe\" are also inspired by the \"Confessions\" of Jean-Jacques Rousseau: in addition to providing a record of political and historical events, Chateaubriand includes details of his private life and his personal aspirations.\n\nThe work abounds in instances of the poetic prose at which Chateaubriand excelled. On the other hand, the melancholy of the autobiography helped establish Chateaubriand as the idol of the young French Romantics; a young Victor Hugo wrote: \"I will be Chateaubriand or nothing.\"\n\nIt was while in Rome at the close of 1803 that Chateaubriand decided to write his memoirs; however, he did not begin writing them until 1809, and even then demands from other projects slowed his progress. In 1817 he returned to the memoirs. The first manuscript, probably written while he was serving as ambassador to London, did not reach completion until 1826. At this point, he intended to entitle the book \"Memories of My Life\".\n\nIn 1830, however, Chateaubriand decided to change the scope of the work, revising the title to \"Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe\", making a thorough revision of the original text, and writing several new volumes. He divided his life before 1830 into three periods: soldier and traveler, novelist, and statesman. The project had by now become more ambitious; indeed, he tried to reproduce not only his personal exploits, but the epic historical and political events of the era.\n\nAfter fragmented public readings of his work in salons, in 1836 Chateaubriand yielded the rights to his work to a society that published it until his death, paying him accordingly. Having obtained this economic stability, he completed the work with a fourth set of volumes. In 1841 he wrote an ample conclusion.\n\nChateaubriand originally intended for the work to be published at least fifty years after his death, but his financial troubles forced him, in his words, \"to mortgage [his] tomb\".\n\nThere have been a number of English translations. British author Anthony Kline published a complete translation in 2005 that is freely available for non-commercial use. An abridged translation by Robert Baldick was first published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1961, and later, in paperback, by Penguin books in 1972. A New York Review of Books edition translated by Alex Andriesse was published in 2018, covering the years 1768-1800 (first 12 of 42 books).\n\n"}
{"id": "21285725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21285725", "title": "Open World Program", "text": "Open World Program\n\nOpen World is a ten-day program which brings emerging leaders from Eurasia to the United States to engage with professional counterparts. The program was established in 1999 to foster cultural and political ties with Russia but has since expanded outreach to other countries of the post-Soviet region. Since its inception the program has brought over 24,000 delegates to 2,300 communities throughout all 50 states.\n\nOpen World provides programming in areas such as Rule of Law, Accountable Governance and Social Services. Delegates have a one-day orientation in Washington D.C. before travelling to a hosting community. The delegates home-stay with local families and participate in a series of meetings, interviews, presentations, and panel discussions with experts in their fields.\n\nThe Open World Leadership Center administers the Open World Program. The agency is part of the U.S. legislative branch and is housed in the Library of Congress in Washington D.C.\n\nEvery year, through the Senate and House Subcommittees on Legislative Branch Appropriations, U.S. Congress decides upon funding for Open World. The agency then confers grants to a variety of national organizations including Rotary clubs and other service organizations, community colleges and universities, sister-city associations, and international visitor councils. \nThe Open World Leadership Center has a Board of Directors with eleven members. The founding chairman of the Board is James H. Billington, Librarian of Congress. There are three members from the House of Representatives and three members from the Senate. In addition, there are four individuals outside of the government who have an interest in improving relations between Open World’s focus countries and the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "20194611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20194611", "title": "Philogelos", "text": "Philogelos\n\nPhilogelos () is the oldest existing collection of jokes.\n\nThe collection is written in Greek, and the language used indicates that it may have been written in the 4th century AD, according to William Berg, an American classics professor. It is attributed to Hierocles and Philagrius, about whom little is known. Because the celebration of a thousand years of Rome is mentioned in joke 62, the collection perhaps dates from after that event in 248 AD. Although it is the oldest existing collection of jokes, it is known that it was not the oldest collection, because Athenaeus wrote that Philip II of Macedon paid for a social club in Athens to write down its members' jokes, and at the beginning of the 2nd century BC, Plautus twice has a character mentioning books of jokes.\n\nThe collection contains 265 jokes categorised into subjects such as teachers and scholars, and eggheads and fools.\n\nIn 2008, British TV personality and comedian Jim Bowen tested the material on a modern audience. One of the jokes in \"Philogelos \"has been described as \"an ancestor of Monty Python's famous Dead Parrot comedy sketch.\" Comedian Jimmy Carr has said that some of the jokes are \"strikingly similar\" to modern ones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35087429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35087429", "title": "Plain of Zgharta", "text": "Plain of Zgharta\n\nThe Plain of Zgharta (or Plain of Zghorta) is a Heavy Neolithic archaeological site approximately east and southeast of Tripoli in Lebanon. It has historically been a region known for growing sumptuous olives owing to early Quaternary, cemented fluvatile deposits that cover the land beneath the topsoil (known as the Conglomerates of Zgharta or the Conglomerates of Zghorta). The site was documented by R. Wetzel and J. Haller in 1945 who discuss surface finds of several large flakes and atypical bifaces from this area and ended up giving them a very improabable label of Mousterian. Lorraine Copeland deduced the likelihood that these pieces were Gigantolithic tools, once used by the Qaraoun culture to chop down Cedars of Lebanon to start the Neolithic Revolution.\n"}
{"id": "46723983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46723983", "title": "Prajnaparamita of Java", "text": "Prajnaparamita of Java\n\nPrajñāpāramitā of Java refer to a famous depiction of Boddhisattvadevi Prajñāpāramitā, originated from 13th century Singhasari, East Java, Indonesia. The statue is of great aesthetical and historical value, and is considered as the masterpiece of classical Hindu-Buddhist art of ancient Java. Today, the statue is one of the prized collection of the National Museum of Indonesia, Jakarta.\n\nThe statue of Prajnaparamita of East Java is probably the most famous depiction of the goddess of transcendental wisdom. The serene expression and meditative pose and gesture suggest peace and wisdom, in contrast with rich and intricate jewelry and decorations. The goddess is in a perfect lotus meditative position called \"vajrasana\" posture, sitting on a double lotus cushion called \"padmasana\" (lotus pedestal) on top of a square base. The statue sits before a carved stela.\n\nThe goddess performs \"dharmachakra-mudra\" (the mudra symbolizing turning the wheel of dharma). Her left arm is placed around an \"utpala\" (blue lotus), on top of which sits her atrribute; the lontar palm leaf book Prajnaparamita Sutra. The head and face is perfectly chiseled, with downcast eyes and forehead \"urna\". The goddess wears her hair high arranged in \"Jatamakuta\" crown, and behind her head radiates \"prabhamandala\" a halo or aura of light to suggest a divinity that has reached the highest wisdom.\n\nThe statue was discovered in almost perfect condition in the Cungkup Putri ruins near Singhasari temple, Malang, East Java. Local tradition links the statue to Queen Ken Dedes the first queen of Singhasari, probably as a deified portrayal of the queen. Another opinion links the statue with Queen Gayatri Rajapatni, the consort of Kertarajasa the first king of Majapahit.\n\nPrajnaparamita is a goddess of high standing in Mahayana Tantric Buddhism; she is considered the shakti, or consort, of the highest Buddha in the Buddhist pantheon known as Vajradhara; she symbolises perfect knowledge.\n\nIn the 13th century, the tantric Buddhism gained royal patronage of king Kertanegara of Singhasari, and thereafter some of Prajnaparamita statues were produced in the region, such as the Prajnaparamita of Singhasari in East Java and Prajnaparamita of Jambi, Sumatra. Both of East Java and Jambi Prajnaparamitas bear resemblance in style as they were produced in same period, however unfortunately Prajnaparamita of Jambi is headless and was discovered in poor condition.\n\nOn the other hand, the Prajnaparamita of Singhasari was discovered in almost perfect condition. The pristine condition of the statue indicates that it was buried for quite some time. It was found near Candi E, the southernmost structure in the temple complex near Singhasari temple. The structure is called Candi Wayang or Cungkup Putri by local inhabitants.\n\nThe Prajnaparamita of Java was discovered in 1818 or 1819 by D. Monnereau, a Dutch East Indies official. In 1820 Monnereau gave the statue to C.G.C. Reinwardt, who later brought the statue to the Netherlands, where it became a prized possession of the Rijksmuseum voor Volkenkunde in Leiden. For more than 158 years the statue was resided in Leiden, the Netherlands.\n\nIn January 1978, the Government of the Netherlands returned the statue to the Republic of Indonesia, when Queen Juliana of the Netherlands visited the former Dutch colony. Today, the statue is placed in National Museum of Indonesia. The statue is displayed on 2nd floor Gedung Arca, Indonesian National Museum, Jakarta. It has become perhaps the best known icon of ancient Indonesian art, as one of the rare images that successfully combines aesthetic perfection and spirituality.\n"}
{"id": "23484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23484", "title": "Proper name (philosophy)", "text": "Proper name (philosophy)\n\nIn the philosophy of language a proper name, for example the names of persons or places, is a name which is ordinarily taken to uniquely identify its referent in the world. As such it presents particular challenges for theories of meaning and it has become a central problem in analytical philosophy. The common sense view was originally formulated by John Stuart Mill in \"A System of Logic\" where he defines it as \"a word that answers the purpose of showing what thing it is that we are talking about but not of telling anything about it\". This view was criticized when philosophers applied principles of formal logic to linguistic propositions. Gottlob Frege pointed out that proper names may apply to imaginary and inexistent entities without becoming meaningless, and he showed that sometimes more than one proper name may identify the same entity without having the same \"sense\", so that the phrase \"Homer believed the morning star was the evening star\" could be meaningful and not tautological in spite of the fact that the morning star and the evening star identifies the same referent. This example became known as Frege's Puzzle and is a central issue in the theory of proper names.\n\nBertrand Russell was the first to propose a Descriptivist theory of names, which held that a proper name refers not to a referent, but to a set of true propositions that uniquely describe a referent - for example \"Aristotle\" refers to \"the teacher of Alexander the Great\". Rejecting descriptivism Saul Kripke and Keith Donnellan instead advanced causal-historical theories of reference which hold that names come to be associated with individual referents because social groups who links the name to its reference in a naming event (e.g. a baptism) which henceforth fixes the value of the name to the specific referent within that community. Today a direct reference theory is common, which holds that proper names refer to their referents without attributing any additional information, connotative or of sense, about them.\n\nThe problem of proper names arise within a theory of meaning that is based on truth values and propositional logic, when trying to ascertain the criteria with which to determine if propositions that include proper names are true or false.\n\nFor example, in the proposition \"Cicero is Roman\" it is unclear what semantic content the proper name \"Cicero\" provides to the proposition. One may intuitively assume that the name refers to a person who may or may not be Roman, and that the truth value depends on whether that is the case or not. But from the point of view of a theory of meaning the question is \"how\" the word Cicero establishes its referent.\n\nAnother problem known as Frege's Puzzle, asks why it can be the case that the two names can refer to the same referent, yet not necessarily be considered entirely synonymous. His example is that the proposition \"Hesperus is Hesperus\" (Hesperus being the Greek name of the morning star) is tautological and vacuous while the proposition \"Hesperus is Phosphorus\" (Phosphorus being the Greek name of the evening star) conveys information. This puzzle suggests that there is something more to the meaning of the proper name than simply pointing out its referent.\n\nMany theories have been proposed about proper names, each attempting to solve the problems of reference and identity inherent in the concept.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill distinguished between connotative and denotative meaning, and argued that proper names included no other semantic content to a proposition than identifying the referent of the name and were hence purely denotative. Some contemporary proponents of a Millian theory of naming argue that the process through which something becomes a proper name is exactly the gradual loss of connotation for pure denotation - such as the process that turned the descriptive propositions \"long island\" into the proper name Long Island.\n\nFrege argued that one had to distinguish between the sense (\"Sinn\") and the reference of the name. And that different names for the same entity might identify the same referent without being formally synonymous. For example, although the Morning star and the evening star is the same astronomical object, the proposition \"the morning star is the evening star\" is not a tautology but provides actual information to someone who did not know this. Hence to Frege the two names for the object must have a different sense. Philosophers such as John McDowell have elaborated on Frege's theory of proper names.\n\nThe \"descriptive\" theory of proper names is the view that the meaning of a given use of a proper name is a set of properties that can be expressed as a description that picks out an object that satisfies the description. \nBertrand Russell espoused such a view arguing that the name refers to a description, and that description, like a definition, \"picks out\" the bearer of the name. The description then functions as an abbreviation or a truncated form of the description. The distinction between the embedded description and the bearer itself is similar to that between the \"extension\" and the \"intension\" (Frege's terms) of a general term, or between connotation and denotation (Mill's terms).\n\nJohn Searle elaborated Russell's theory suggesting that the proper name refers to a cluster of propositions that in combination pick out a unique referent. This was meant to deal with the objection by some critics of Russell's theory that a descriptive theory of meaning would make the referent of a name dependent on the knowledge that the person saying the name has about the referent.\n\nIn 1973, Tyler Burge proposed a metalinguistic descriptivist theory of proper names which holds that names have the meaning that corresponds to the description of the individual entities to whom the name is applied. This however opens up for the possibility that names are not proper, when for example more than one person shares the same name. This leads Burge to argue that plural usages of names, such as \"all the Alfreds I know have red hair\", support this view.\n\nThe causal-historical theory originated by Saul Kripke in \"Naming and Necessity\", building on work by among others Keith Donnellan, combines the referential view with the idea that the name's referent is fixed by a baptismal act, whereupon the name becomes a rigid designator of the referent. Kripke did not emphasize causality, but rather the historical relation between the naming event and the community of speakers within which it circulates, but in spite of this the theory is often called \"a causal theory of naming\".\n\nThe pragmatic naming theory of Charles Sanders Peirce is sometimes considered a precursor of causal-historical naming theory. He described proper names in the following terms: \"A proper name, when one meets with it for the first time, is existentially connected with some percept or other equivalent individual knowledge of the individual it names. It is then, and then only, a genuine Index. The next time one meets with it, one regards it as an Icon of that Index. The habitual acquaintance with it having been acquired, it becomes a Symbol whose Interpretant represents it as an Icon of an Index of the Individual named.\" Here he notes out that the baptismal event takes place for each person when a proper name is first associated with a referent (for example by pointing and saying \"this is John\", establishing an indexical relation between the name and the person) who is henceforth considered to be a conventional (\"symbolic\" in Peircean terms) references to the referent. [ \"who is...a conventional...references to the referent\" is grammatically incorrect, rendering the whole sentence incoherent]\n\nRejecting sense-based, descriptivist and causal-historical theories of naming, theories of direct reference hold that names together with demonstratives are a class of words that refer directly to their referent.\n\nIn the \"Tractatus Logico Philosophicus\" Ludwig Wittgenstein also held a direct reference position, arguing that names refer to a particular directly, and that this referent is its only meaning. In his later work however he has been attributed a cluster-descriptivist position based on the idea of family resemblances (for example by Kripke), although it has been argued that this misconstrues Wittgenstein's argument. Particularly his later view has been compared to that of Kripke's own view which recognizes names as stemming from a social convention and pragmatic principles of understanding others utterances.\n\nDirect reference theory is similar to Mill's theory in that it proposes that the only meaning of a proper name is its referent. Modern proposals such as those by David Kaplan, which distinguish between Fregean and non-Fregean terms, the former which have both sense and reference and the latter which include proper names and have only reference.\n\nOutside of the analytic tradition few continental philosophers have approached the proper name as a philosophical problem. In \"Of Grammatology\" Jacques Derrida specifically refutes the idea that proper names stand outside of the social construct of language as a binary relation between referent and sign. Rather he argues, the proper name as all words are caught up in a context of social, spatial and temporal differences that make it meaningful. He also notes that there are subjective elements of meaning in proper names, since they connect the bearer of a name with the sign of their own identity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42797413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42797413", "title": "Semonides of Amorgos", "text": "Semonides of Amorgos\n\nSemonides of Amorgos (; , variantly ; fl. 7th century BC) was a Greek iambic and elegiac poet who is believed to have lived during the seventh century BC. Fragments of his poetry survive as quotations in other ancient authors, the most extensive and well known of which is a satiric account of different types of women which is often cited in discussions of misogyny in Archaic Greece. The poem takes the form of a catalogue, with each type of woman represented by an animal whose characteristics—in the poet's scheme—are also characteristic of a large body of the female population. Other fragments belong to the registers of gnomic poetry and wisdom literature in which the Hesiodic \"Works and Days\" and the \"Theognidea\" are classed, and reflect a similarly pessimistic view of the human experience. There is also evidence that Semonides composed the sort of personal invective found in the work of his near contemporary iambographer Archilochus and the later Hipponax, but no surviving fragment can be securely attributed to such a poem.\n\nThe name \"Semonides\" (, \"Sēmōnídes\") is attested by an entry transmitted in two ancient lexica—the \"Etymologicum Genuinum\" and \"Etymologicum Magnum\"—which apparently had Choeroboscus as its immediate source:\n\nSimonides: in the case of the iambic poet is written with an eta, as in \"sign\" (\"sēma\"); the name of the lyric poet is written with an iota, as in \"snub-nosed\" (\"sīmos\"). — Choeroboscus\nThe lyric poet mentioned herein is Simonides of Ceos (6th–5th centuries BC). Despite the testimony of the etymologica, every source that quotes the iambic poet spells his name identically with that of his more famous namesake, and the only other author who uses the form \"Semonides\" is Philodemus. Whatever the poet's name actually was, modern scholarship has adopted Choeroboscus' distinction between the two forms as a means of distinguishing the two poets. Still, the homophony of their names in ancient quotations leaves open the possibility that some fragments attributed to Simonides might actually belong to Semonides.\n\nTwo notices in the tenth-century encyclopedia known as the \"Suda\" provide most of the extant details of Semonides' life. His primary lemma reads: \"Simonides [sic], son of Crines, of Amorgos, iambic writer. He wrote elegiac poetry in two books and iambics. He was born (or 'flourished': ) 490 years after the Trojan War [i.e. 693 BC]. He was the first to write iambics according to some.\" Further information has been conflated with the entry on Simmias of Rhodes; the relevant portion is:\n\nOther contradictory dates for Semonides' birth or floruit are found in the chronographic tradition relying upon Eusebius' \"Chronicon\" (Olympiad 29.1 = 664 BC), Cyril of Alexandria (29th Olympiad = 664–661), and Clement of Alexandria (20th Olympiad = 700–697). Semonides' role in the colonisation of Amorgos and his identification as a contemporary of Archilochus in the ancient testimonia recommend accepting the later dates of Eusebius and Cyril, and today he is almost universally considered to have lived in the middle and latter half of the seventh century. Based upon a perceived allusion to Archilochus at Semonides 7.51–2 some have refined the chronology further, arguing that Semonides either lived after Archilochus or was his younger contemporary. If the \"Suda\"s testimony that Semonides participated in the colonization of Amorgos is true, he likely had a political career similar to that of Archilochus, who was among the colonists of Thasos.\n\nAlthough the \"Suda\" states that Semonides composed elegy as well iambus, none of his elegiac poetry has survived. If the encyclopedia's information is to be trusted, it is probable that the first entry's \"elegiac poetry in two books\" refers to the \"Early History of Samos\" in the second. This work would belong to the genre of \"ktisis\" (\"foundation\") poetry which Mimnermus' elegiac \"Smyrneis\" might also have represented.\n\nSemonides' poetry, as is the case with archaic elegy and iambus in general, is composed in a literary Ionic dialect largely reminiscent of Homeric Greek and occasionally includes echoes of Homeric and Hesiodic poetry. The extant fragments are written in iambic trimeters, a stichic verse form also employed by Archilochus which would later be the primary meter of dialogue in tragedy. To judge from the admittedly small sample of his work, Semonides was a conservative metrician: in 180 lines there is not a single certain instance of resolution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3812831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3812831", "title": "Stewart Ainsworth", "text": "Stewart Ainsworth\n\nStewart Ainsworth (born 26 June 1951) is a British archaeological investigator who was regularly seen on \"Time Team\", the Channel 4 archaeological television series.\n\nHe trained as a surveyor before entering the archaeology section of the Ordnance Survey. He has worked on a number of archaeological sites in Britain and abroad. He joined the Royal Commission on the Historical Monuments of England (now part of English Heritage) in 1985, and is now head of its \"Landscape Investigation Team\" based in York, England.\n\nHe was affectionately known as \"Time Team\"'s \"lumps and bumps\" man, working with the team alongside his day job, travelling the country surveying, recording and investigating archaeological sites.\n\nAs of 2010 Ainsworth has been part of the History and Archaeology department at the University of Chester, where he is a Professor.\n\nHe is President of the Friends Of Epiacum, the Roman fort on the southern edge of Northumberland which he has surveyed and studied in depth.\n\nAinsworth is married with two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "8313387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8313387", "title": "Sunken Secrets", "text": "Sunken Secrets\n\nThe Archaeology Discover Centre formerly Sunken Secrets, formerly the Underwater Archaeology Centre is a museum located in Fort Victoria on the Isle of Wight, England.\n\nThe museum is run by archaeologists based on the Isle of Wight. It is housed in five of the fort's former casemates. Since it was opened in 1990 the museum has been used to display exhibits recovered from several local shipwrecks and the submerged landscapes of the Solent. These include the wrecks of HMS \"Pomone\", HMS \"Invincible\", the Yarmouth Roads Wreck and Bouldnor Cliff. The museum also houses an exhibition about the history of Fort Victoria itself.\n\nLike most attractions in the fort the museum only operates from Easter to autumn, during which time it opens daily and occasionally holds activity and community events which are advertised at the fort, on Twitter and in local press.\n\nAfter the wreck of HMS \"Pomone\" was discovered at The Needles in 1969, the Isle of Wight Council funded a team to research and excavate the site. In 1984 another wreck was discovered immediately offshore of Yarmouth and work began excavating that site as well. In 1990 the Isle of Wight Trust for Maritime Archaeology was founded and began operating a museum at Fort Victoria called the Maritime Heritage Exhibition. Several finds from the excavations were displayed in the museum, whilst others went to the Royal Naval Museum in Portsmouth and Bembridge Maritime Museum.\n\nIn 1991 the Trust expanded into the Hampshire and Wight Trust for Maritime Archaeology, a charity which went on to investigate more maritime archaeology in the local area and discovered the site of Bouldnor Cliff in 1999. The Trust refurbished the museum which was re-opened in 2006 as the Underwater Archaeology Centre. In 2013 it was renamed Sunken Secrets. In 2017 the ownership of the centre passed into local hands.\n\nShipwrecks: The shipwrecks exhibition explores why there are so many wrecks in the Solent area, why wrecks are seen as acting as time capsules of the past, and displays finds from Trust excavations. It includes the stories of HMS \"Pomone\", HMS \"Invincible\", the Yarmouth Roads Wreck (believed to be the Spanish Galleon \"Santa Lucia\"), and other wrecks at the Needles and Alum Bay.\n\nSubmerged landscapes: The submerged landscapes exhibits explain the history of the Solent as a dry river valley before rising sea levels flooded it and created the strait that exists today. It focuses on the Trust's excavations at Bouldnor Cliff and includes artefacts recovered from the sea bed.\n\nHistory of Fort Victoria: Fort Victoria does not have a museum of its own, but an exhibition within Sunken Secrets details its history and its role in the defence of the Needles Passage.\n\nThe museum also contains information about the actual practice of maritime archaeology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47194790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47194790", "title": "Süddeutsche Monatshefte", "text": "Süddeutsche Monatshefte\n\nIts publication of conspiracy theories such as the stab-in-the-back myth paved the way for Nazi propaganda, but ' was more closely aligned with the mainstream right. It played a part in conspiratorial alliances supporting the policies of Gustav von Kahr, although it also had Conservative Revolutionaries among its core contributors. In its late years, ' turned to Bavarian nationalism and Wittelsbach loyalism, becoming a target for the Nazi regime. Cossmann was imprisoned for dissidence, then deported for his Jewishness; took over, leading \"\" until its disestablishment in 1936.\n\nEstablished as a mainly social-liberal tribune by Cossmann, a Jewish writer who had converted to Catholicism, ' initially sought to reaffirm the cultural importance of Southern Germany and solidify its symbiotic relationship with Prussia, creating cultural bridges between Catholics and Protestants. Joining the directorial staff in the first edition was liberal pastor-politician Friedrich Naumann (its political director to 1913), who shared editorial oversight with painter Hans Thoma and composer Hans Pfitzner. Protestant social reformer and Joseph Schnitzer, a Modernist Catholic, were noted guest writers, with Cossmann acting as neutral host. During the federal election of 1907, the magazine hosted debates between Schnitzer and Center Party militant , on Political Catholicism and its role in society (a divisive one, according to Schnitzer). However, according to historian Adam R. Seipp, ' was mainly an interface for traditional Munich—Catholic, \"deeply conservative\", \"suspicious of outside influences\", and antithetical to the modernist \"Simplicissimus\".\n\nCossmann managed to attract important writers to the magazine's permanent staff, including and Karl Alexander von Müller. In its early issues, \"\" hosted mainly essays by the likes of Hofmiller (such as his 1909 putdown of the modernist author Robert Walser), Carl Spitteler, and , and poetry by .\n\nSome of the cultural and social chronicles had nationalist undertones, debating over the requirements of German modernization. As Anglophiles, Hofmiller, Lujo Brentano, and suggested fusing Anglo–American lessons in modernity with the German \"Volkstum\", to make Germany a more competitive capitalist nation; in 1906, a Dr. Paul Tesdorf went further, promoting eugenics as a means to engineer a better people. In contrast, Naumann and other authors worried about finance capitalism and oligopolies, exhorting a German nationalism based on \"democratic capitalism\" or syndicalism, and following closely the development of Marxist revisionism. In a February 1906 obituary for the \"legal socialist\" Anton Menger, Eugen Ehrlich commented that the term \"socialism\" had virtually lost its mystique.\n\nThe magazine took a distinctly liberal position on education reform, with Rade supporting the Jewish studies movement. Most of the contributors, in particular Gustav Wyneken, were critics of the Herbartian educational tradition; Wyneken's polemics with the more conservative Friedrich Wilhelm Foerster were taken up by \"\". In 1909, the journal was also one of the first to host Hans Driesch's philosophical tracts, discussing the concept of becoming in history and nature. In 1913, it aired Moritz Geiger's grievances against experimental psychology, implicitly a defense of classical phenomenology.\n\nDebates about innovation were carried into the artistic realm. An early contributor, Henry Thode, wrote articles which censured modern art from conservative and antisemitic positions, attacking modernist critics such as Julius Meier-Graefe. In 1911, the debate was taken further: ' hosted both 's manifesto against French \"invasion\" in German art, as well as the more cautious, pro-modernist, replies to Vinnen, from: Thoma, Lovis Corinth, Gustav Klimt, Max Klinger, Max Slevogt, Count Kalckreuth, Wilhelm Trübner, and Auguste Rodin. In various other issues, ' carried polemical essays by aestheticists such as and Paul Zarifopol.\n\nIn January 1913, ' made official its doctrinal links with anti-democratic conservatism: Robert von Pöhlmann published an article condemning majoritarianism, demanding instead the remodeling of Germany into a ' (\"civilization-state\"), with a politically-enshrined social stratification. Naumann resigned in protest against veiled accusations him in Pöhlmann's article, but also because the magazine had discarded liberal democracy.\n\n' saluted the July 1914 Crisis and the outbreak of World War I: in the September issue, Karl Mayr wrote that the war signified \"internal transformation\". The magazine's nationalism became extreme over the following months, with Cossmann arguing in favor of ' (\"victory peace\") and Müller celebrating Prussia as a \"heroic-aristocratic warrior state\"; similarly, Hermann Oncken and Friedrich Meinecke wrote praises of militarism and Prussian virtues. ' promoted an increasingly radical right-wing platform, supporting militarists Alfred von Tirpitz and Erich Ludendorff while excoriating more moderate military and political elements. In 1916, Cossmann and his magazine defended Tirpitz's submarine war policy, submitting evidence that Tirpitz critic Veit Valentin had falsified military reports. These were times of notoriety for the magazine: prior to the war, ' circulation stood at a few hundred copies, rising to 3000-5000 ca. 1914, and increasing sharply after that, reaching 100,000 at times.\nThe journal hosted topical literature on war politics and alarming reports from the field, including Spahn's coverage of civilian defeatism in Alsace-Lorraine. In 1915, Eduard Meyer, Georg Kerschensteiner, and Ludwig Curtius published here their thoughts on the political and historical revelations of war, introducing theses about nationalist rivalry as the source of progress and European civilization. Aiming to strengthen German propaganda in neutral Spain, the magazine hosted exposes depicting Iberian Federalism as a product of French intrigues, and homages to the conservative Mauristas.\n\nTaking much interest in the \"Jewish Question\" in German-occupied Poland, \"\" exaggerated the magnitude of conflicts between Jews and Poles. A special issue of February 1916 was dedicated to Ashkenazi Jews. It included a piece by of the Jewish \"Centralverein\", who urged for assimilation, the \"unwavering cultivation of German sentiments\". Also featured were articles by Zionists Max Bodenheimer and Franz Oppenheimer, who purported that \"Eastern Jews\" were natural allies of German nationalism. More radical Jewish intellectuals, primarily Kurt Blumenfeld and , reacted against this juxtaposition, accusing Bodenheimer of having given up on Zionist ideals. Cossmann was also irritated by the \"uncritical\" views of Bodenheimer and his followers, which, he argued, were essentially \"platitudes\".\n\nThe editorship viewed the November 1918 Revolution and consequent fall of the monarchy as a disaster; its nationalist agitation was strengthened in the wake of the Munich Soviet Republic and the establishment of the Weimar Republic. In that context, its antisemitism also became more radical, integrating notions about \"Jewish Bolshevism\", and dropping ethical distinctions between assimilated and non-assimilated Jews, although Cossmann remained rather critical of such analogies. In February 1919, it became the first mainstream publication to host an article by Müller's brother-in-law Gottfried Feder. The self-taught economist and German Workers' Party ideologue explained his fight against \"interest slavery\", soon after developed into an explicitly antisemitic program. At around the same time, the \"\" press put out a brochure by , a Jewish Russian refugee in Berlin. Its pessimistic prognosis was that world revolution had become an unstoppable \"torrent\".\n\nCirculation remained high in 1918–1920, before steadily declining over the subsequent decade. Cossmann found backing from powerful industrialists, aristocrats, and Bavarian People's Party (BVP) figures, who also sponsored him and his secretary Franz von Gebsattel to buy and publish the daily ', overbidding their Jewish competitors. This circle included Tirpitz, Prince of the secretive \"Gäa-Club\", Gustav von Kahr, Albert Vögler, and corporate backers from the \"Gute Hoffnungshütte\". Although Kahr's ally, Cossmann did not support its regionalist platform, and was only interesting to Bavarian nationalists as an enemy of the Social Democratic Party (SPD). He was sympathetic toward Karl Jarres of the mainstream German People's Party, trying to obtain him votes from the BVP. In December 1922, however, he and other ' men were involved in Tirpitz's conspiratorial project against Weimar, which discussed the creation of a German dictatorship under Kahr.\n\nFrom 1921, Cossmann's magazine took notice of the emerging Conservative Revolutionary movement, accepting its critique of \"Völkisch\" traditionalism, and bringing in the radical sociologist as a contributor. Ricarda Huch also contributed, in March 1923, with ' (\"War of Slogans\"), a national-anarchist satire of the League of Nations. Another noted presence was philosopher Oswald Spengler, whose writings for ' talked about recapturing the \"spirit of 1914\", theorized as a voluntarist reshaping of power relations. Spengler reassured Cossmann's readers that the Treaty of Versailles was a mere \"pause for breath\" in the otherwise unstoppable progress of Pan-Germanism.\n\nThe journal railed above all against Versailles' War Guilt Clause, campaigning for the return of German colonies, and publishing in 1924 Heinrich Schnee's highly popular tract, \"\" (\"The Lie of the Colonial Guilt\"). It also explored in depth the crisis of German nobility, with essays by aristocrats such as and Ewald von Kleist-Schmenzin. In his contribution, the latter also sketched out a plan for German settlement in the East.\n\n' also became notorious by advocating for the stab-in-the-back myth, according to which Germany had not been truly defeated in 1918, but betrayed from within. The accusation, backed by the Spenglerian philosophical stance (defeat was a failure of national will), was notably taken up by Cossmann—with a focus on the wartime Social Democrats. The \"Münchener Post\" responded by criticizing Cossmann, and Cossmann sued the \"Post\" editor, Martin Gruber, for libel; it became a celebrity trial. Cossmann won when Judge Hans Frank, himself a radical nationalist, ruled that he had acted in the public interest by publishing wartime letters attributed to SPD pacifist Felix Fechenbach. ' helped instigate the political trial against Fechenbach.\n\nIn its final decade, \"\" became \"mainstream\", a \"serious journal of the conservative bourgeoisie\", hosting contributions by right-wing assimilated Jews such as Leo Baeck, alongside antisemitic Germans like Theodor Fritsch, Ernst Jünger, and Count Reventlow. Like the BVP, it was ambiguous toward the nascent Nazi movement in the wake of the Nazis' Beer Hall Putsch. Spengler, who felt that Nazi adventurism had ruined his own budding project for an industrialist timocracy, broke with the Cossmann club, denouncing its failure to preclude the Putsch.\n\nBy 1927, the magazine again had a focus on eugenics, as well as racial hygiene and natalism. Hosting a topical essay by Spengler, it had contributions by eugenicists Otmar Freiherr von Verschuer, Alfred Ploetz, and Fritz Lenz. Issuing predictions about the \"fate of our race\", Lenz discussed the Nordic race in relation to the German people, while statistician Richard Korherr contributed \"Geburtenrückgank\" (\"Birth Rate\"), a much-read study of the West's population decline. These works were complimented in 1929 by a essay on biopolitics and the alleged Slavic population pressure on Germany's eastern frontier, suggesting counteraction through German recolonization. In other ways the magazine contradicted \"Völkisch\" tenets. Sexologist Max von Gruber wrote that most of the \"greatest men of our race\" were not purely Nordic, but \"hybrids\", and that productive miscegenation was in the national character. Franz Spina's 1928 piece on the Sudeten Germans expressed support for a rapprochement between Germany and the Czechoslovak Republic. Also, as noted by historian Bernd Weisbrod, \"\"s racial antisemitism was of the moderate variety embraced by the National Populists. This was notably illustrated by its hosting, in September 1930, of an article by Jünger, in which the novelist suggested that self-segregation was \"the most efficient weapon\" against Jews.\n\nReturning to its critique of cultural imports at the height of the international Jazz Age, the magazine was focusing its attacks on modern American culture, and especially its African component. Korherr and took up Spenglerian themes about the \"inconsiderate\", \"nihilistic\", \"Americanized\" architecture of modern Berlin. Jünger's articles, however, showed leniency toward modernization and a more critical stance against \"Völkisch\" tropes: he conceived of the \"German national revolution\" as an urban uprising, and decried peasant conservatism as outdated, \"doomed to failure\". \"\" writers were also undecided about the import of physical education and the Weimar youth's emphasis on recreational sport: Ulrich von Wilamowitz deplored these developments, while Wilhelm Wien saw in them signs of recovery from \"the postwar chaos\".\n\nThe popularity of German occultism and alternative medicine was examined by Cossmann's journal, over several issues. Astrologers such as were allowed to introduce their work to the magazine's middle-class readership, although their essays generally refrained from making astrological inferences. With articles by Sven Hedin and others, the magazine expressed skepticism against the fantastic travel accounts of F. Ossendowski, and against modern mysticism in general.\n\nShortly after the onset of the Great Depression, \"\" resumed campaigning for \"the revival of war generation\" and the fulfillment of its \"historical destiny\"—themes central to the essays of Edgar Julius Jung, which saw print in Cossmann's magazine. In the late 1920s, Jung was outlining here his vision of neo-feudalism, communalism and grassroots democracy, as conservative resources against centralizing SPD governments. With monarchism on the decline, the journal still gave exposure to Wilhelm II's apologists, hosting 's 1929 study \"The Monarchy in German History\".\n\nSome of the journal's contributors looked into new forms of authoritarianism. Jünger's 1930 text lambasted liberalism and Italian Fascism, noting that the latter only existed as a \"simplified and shortened\" version of the former. He envisaged a \"stricter solution\" to Germany's political and economic woes. The economic crisis brought in opportunities for corporatist and social credit schemes, which were taken up by , who proposed creating a national labor conscription service on such grounds. After a republican Voluntary Labor Service came into force in 1932, an article by celebrated its role in national pedagogy and social advancement.\n\nThe journal's conservative position was at odds with Nazism, just as the latter was growing in popularity and numerical strength. Reventlow, who had since adhered to the Nazi Party, still frequented the \"\", where, in September 1930, he published a Nazi manifesto that called not just for \"complete separation\" from the Jews, but also for their \"annihilation\". Cossmann himself rejected Nazi racial theory but, as sociologist Werner Jacob Cahnman has noted, his earlier work in propaganda had unwittingly given the Nazis \"a rousing slogan and terrific impetus\". According to Cahnman, Cossmann \"just did not wish to see the writing on the wall\".\n\nIn early 1933, Cossmann and his collaborator , who had openly criticized Adolf Hitler in 1923, called for a monarchist coup against the nascent Nazi regime that would see Crown Prince Rupprecht placed on the throne. Setting out its platform, the magazine's January cover bore the title \"King Rupprecht\". The pair were arrested and imprisoned. Cossmann, described by scholar Steven E. Aschheim as \"a tragic victim of the breakdown of the German–Jewish symbiosis\", was sent to the ghetto of Berg am Laim in 1941, and died at Theresienstadt concentration camp in 1942.\n\nThe magazine continued to run to 1936 under Nazi publisher , but became both insignificant and apolitical during this last phase. A late controversy came in October 1933, when commemorated in his articles 1920s Rhenish separatism, depicting it as a popular self-help movement against Weimar incompetence. Some of the final issues had encomiums of Nazi architecture, penned by art reviewers such as (who celebrated the Nuremberg Rally as a \"sacred space\"). Having already hosted comments by on holistic health in November 1932, other such issues had contributions by Nazified Neo-Adlerian therapists: Fritz Künkel, who favored reintegrating patients within the \"greater community\"; and Harald Schultz-Hencke, who talked about a \"rediscovery of the soul\" by psychiatric science. \"\" also published, in February 1936, the first version of Carl Jung's introductory essay, \"Psychological Typology\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39811979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39811979", "title": "The Back in the Game Tour", "text": "The Back in the Game Tour\n\nThe Back in the Game Tour was a comedy tour by British comedian Micky Flanagan.\n\nThe tour visited cities across the UK and Ireland in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "8509229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8509229", "title": "The Norka", "text": "The Norka\n\nThe Norka is a fairy tale from Andrew Lang's \"The Red Fairy Book\". Lang gives no source for the tale, but it is taken verbatim from the book Russian Folk-tales by W. R. S. Ralston, published in 1873 by Smith, Elder, & co. and re-published by Kessinger Publishing in 2004.\n\nThe King is unable to destroy the Norka, a huge beast who is devouring his animals. He offers half his kingdom to any one of his sons who kills the Norka. The two eldest sons drink and revel instead of hunting the beast. The youngest third son, a simpleton, wounds and chases the beast. The beast escapes under a great stone. The third son descends to the underworld and meets a talking horse who calls him Ivan and takes him to a copper palace owned by a beautiful woman, a sister of the Norka. He travels to a silver palace and a golden palace, also owned by the sisters of the Norka. The third and youngest sister tells him that Norka is asleep on the sea. She gives him a sword and the Water of Strength, and tells him to cut off her brother's head with a single stroke. He cuts off the Norka's head, which says \"Well, I'm done for now!\", and rolls into the sea. \n\nThe three sisters are in love with him, so he takes them with him to the surface world. They change their palaces into eggs with magic, teach him how to do it, and give him the eggs. His brothers pull the three maidens up, but try to kill the third son by cutting the rope halfway up. He substituted a stone for himself, however, so he was not killed. Stranded in the underworld, he sadly wandered away as it rains. He covers some baby birds with his coat to protect them from the rain. The giant mother bird is grateful and carries him to the surface.\n\nA tailor tells him that the two princes are going to marry the maidens from the underworld, but the maidens refuse to be married until wedding dresses are made in the underworld style, and without measuring them. The third son tells the tailor to accept the job to make the clothes for the wedding. At night, the third son turns the eggs into palaces, takes the maiden's clothes from the palaces, and turns the palaces into eggs again. He gives the dresses to the tailor who is paid richly by the King. He visits the shoemaker and other artificers and does the same thing. The youngest maiden recognizes him (in rags), grabs him, and takes him to the palace. She explains to the king what happened and that the brothers threatened to kill them if they said the third son was alive. The King punishes the two brothers. Three weddings are celebrated. \n\n"}
{"id": "6900144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6900144", "title": "The medium is the message", "text": "The medium is the message\n\n\"The medium is the message\" is a phrase coined by Marshall McLuhan meaning that the form of a medium embeds itself in any message it would transmit or convey, creating a symbiotic relationship by which the medium influences how the message is perceived.\n\nThe phrase was introduced in McLuhan's book \"\", published in 1964. McLuhan proposes that a medium itself, not the content it carries, should be the focus of study. He said that a medium affects the society in which it plays a role not only by the content delivered over the medium, but also by the characteristics of the medium itself.\n\nMcLuhan frequently punned on the word \"message\", changing it to \"mass age\", \"mess age\", and \"massage\"; a later book, \"The Medium Is the Massage\" was originally to be titled \"The Medium is the Message\", but McLuhan preferred the new title, which is said to have been a printing error.\n\nConcerning the title, McLuhan wrote \"The title “The Medium Is the Massage\" is a teaser—a way of getting attention. There’s a wonderful sign hanging in a Toronto junkyard which reads, “Help Beautify Junkyards. Throw Something Lovely Away Today.” This is a very effective way of getting people to notice a lot of things. And so the title is intended to draw attention to the fact that a medium is not something neutral—it does something to people. It takes hold of them. It rubs them off, it massages them and bumps them around, chiropractically, as it were, and the general roughing up that any new society gets from a medium, especially a new medium, is what is intended in that title.\"\n\nFor McLuhan, it was the medium itself that shaped and controlled \"the scale and form of human association and action\". Taking the movie as an example, he argued that the way this medium played with conceptions of speed and time transformed \"the world of sequence and connections into the world of creative configuration and structure.\" Therefore, the message of the movie medium is this transition from \"lineal connections\" to \"configurations\".\n\nExtending the argument for understanding the medium as the message itself, he proposed that the \"content of any medium is always another medium\" – thus, speech is the content of writing, writing is the content of print, and print itself is the content of the telegraph.\n\nMcLuhan understood \"medium\" in a broad sense. He identified the light bulb as a clear demonstration of the concept of \"the medium is the message\". A light bulb does not have content in the way that a newspaper has articles or a television has programs, yet it is a medium that has a social effect; that is, a light bulb enables people to create spaces during nighttime that would otherwise be enveloped by darkness. He describes the light bulb as a medium without any content. McLuhan states that \"a light bulb creates an environment by its mere presence.\"\n\nLikewise, the message of a newscast about a heinous crime may be less about the individual news story itself — the content — and more about the change in public attitude towards crime that the newscast engenders by the fact that such crimes are in effect being brought into the home to watch over dinner.\n\nHence in \"Understanding Media\", McLuhan describes the \"content\" of a medium as a juicy piece of meat carried by the burglar to distract the watchdog of the mind. This means that people tend to focus on the obvious, which is the content, to provide us valuable information, but in the process, we largely miss the structural changes in our affairs that are introduced subtly, or over long periods of time. As society's values, norms, and ways of doing things change because of the technology, it is then we realize the social implications of the medium. These range from cultural or religious issues and historical precedents, through interplay with existing conditions, to the secondary or tertiary effects in a cascade of interactions that we are not aware of.\n\nOn the subject of art history, McLuhan interpreted Cubism as announcing clearly that the medium is the message. For him, Cubist art required \"instant sensory awareness of the whole\" rather than perspective alone. In other words, with Cubism one could not ask what the artwork was about (content), but rather consider it in its entirety.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5951818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5951818", "title": "Three-martini lunch", "text": "Three-martini lunch\n\nThe three-martini lunch or noontime three-martini is a term used in the United States to describe a leisurely, indulgent lunch enjoyed by businesspeople or lawyers. It refers to a common belief that many people in such professions have enough leisure time and wherewithal to consume more than one martini during the work day. \n\nAs business matters may be discussed at them, three-martini lunches are considered a business expense (which includes travel, meals, etc.) and thus can qualify for a tax deduction if such lunches occur infrequently.\n\nThe three-martini lunch is no longer common practice for several reasons, including the implementation of \"fitness for duty\" programs by numerous companies, the decreased tolerance of alcohol use, a general decrease in available leisure time for business executives, an increase in the size of the martini, and a decrease in the size of the tax deduction.\n\nPresident John F. Kennedy of the US called for a crackdown on such tax breaks in 1961, but nothing was done at the time. Jimmy Carter condemned the practice during the 1976 presidential campaign. Carter portrayed it as part of the unfairness in the nation's tax laws, claiming that the working class was subsidizing the \"$50 martini lunch\". This was because a \"rich businessman\" could write off this type of lunch as a business expense. After the election his opponent, incumbent President Gerald Ford, in a 1978 speech to the National Restaurant Association, responded with: \"The three-martini lunch is the epitome of American efficiency. Where else can you get an earful, a bellyful and a snootful at the same time?\"\n\nIt was once popular in Washington, D.C. but has declined since the early 1990s. The practice has also been affected by changing views to alcohol consumption, while others have chosen to go with new drinks like Vodka Martini and Cosmopolitan. The cost of some drinks have increased three times faster than the inflation rate. \n\nThe entertainment deduction, which includes meals, was reduced to 80 percent in 1987 and to 50 percent in 1994.\n\nComedian George Carlin once commented that the crackdown on the three-martini lunch should not affect the working man's \"two-joint coffee break\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21722477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21722477", "title": "Tory corporatism", "text": "Tory corporatism\n\nTory corporatism is a corporatist political culture that is distinct from fascist corporatism in that rather than having a dictatorship impose order through force, the Tory corporatist culture is already settled and ongoing. The Tory corporatist culture relies on existing shared values of its members and therefore does not feature a large police force. The theoretical source of legitimacy of a Tory corporatist culture is tradition and hierarchy of birth. \n\nWhile its members are rational beings, the culture itself does not attempt to justify itself by reason as for instance a fascist corporatist culture does, but rather appeals to the way it has always been done. Tory corporatists feel that tradition is the rightful basis of society. The Tory corporatist culture is organized with rigid hierarchy defined by birth and age. Tory corporatists view this hierarchy as fundamental to the proper functioning of the society. They do not value or seek to achieve equality because they believe it is an illusion and detrimental. Any power attained by those who seek equality is considered an illegitimate replacement. Merit does play a limited role in who has influence, but hierarchy of birth takes precedence over merit whenever there is a conflict between the two.\n\nThe Tory corporate culture is based on the family. Small corporate groups as well as the whole society are seen as a big family. For this reason, Tory corporatists tend to view time and goals in terms longer than one's own lifetime. Specialization of skills by small corporate groups tend to perpetuate the culture because it causes members to feel a sense of self-government and self-sufficiency. The connection of their work to the purpose of the whole society is close and obvious. Tory corporate cultures are conceived in cooperation, not competition. Members accept the hierarchy and ownership is not vested in individuals, but rather groups. The good of these groups is believed to be the same as the good of the whole society.\n\n"}
{"id": "30081602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30081602", "title": "Valerius Coucke", "text": "Valerius Coucke\n\nValerius Josephus (Latin; Flemish: Valeer Jozef; French: Valère Joseph) Coucke, 1888–1951, was a Belgian scholar and priest who was professor at the Grootseminarie Brugge (Grand Séminaire de Bruges) in the 1920s. His importance to modern scholarship comes from his writings in the field of Old Testament chronology. His study of the methods of the authors of the books of Kings and Chronicles led him to conclusions that were later discovered, independently, by Edwin R. Thiele. A distinctive of his approach was the use of citations in classical authors in order to obtain fixed dates in biblical history, most notably the date for the beginning of construction of Solomon’s Temple.\n\nCoucke was born on 2 February 1888, in Poperinge, in the province of West-Flanders in Belgium. He studied in Leuven, where he obtained a bachelor's degree in theology (S.T.B.). He was ordained a priest of the Roman Catholic Church in 1912 and was appointed to several parishes: Bredene, Staden, and Hooglede (all in the diocese of Bruges in Belgium). In 1919, he became a professor at the Grootseminarie in Brugge/Bruges (Le Grand Séminaire de Bruges), where he taught sacramental theology and moral theology. In 1927 he became the seminary’s librarian and also bursar, responsible for the finances of the seminary. In 1928, he was appointed canon of the Holy Savior’s Cathedral of Bruges. He died on 20 December 1951, in Bruges.\n\nCoucke broke precedent with the approach of the Documentary Hypothesis that was popular among European scholars in his day by starting with the working proposition that the chronological data of Kings and Chronicles represented authentic traditions that could be understood once the methods of the ancient scribes were determined. This was in contrast to the skepticism to such an approach inherent in the postulates of the prevalent higher-critical methodology, which assumed that the chronological and other historical data of the Bible’s historical books were the product of late-date editors, and hence were of little or no historical value. Coucke departed from this presupposition-based approach, using instead the data of the biblical texts as his starting place (an inductive approach). From those data, he came to the following conclusions: 1) During the period of the divided kingdom, Judah’s regnal year began in the fall month of Tishri, whereas that of the northern kingdom, Israel, began in Nisan. (Coucke also allowed that the northern kingdom may have begun its calendar in the Egyptian month of Thoth, since Jeroboam resided in Egypt for many years before becoming the first king of Israel, but Coucke was wrong in assuming that at the time of Egypt’s Third Intermediate Period, Thoth came in the spring at the same time as the Hebrew Nisan.) 2) For the first few years of the divided kingdom, Judah used accession reckoning for its kings, whereas Israel used nonaccession reckoning. 3) During the rapprochement between the two kingdoms in the ninth century BC, Judah adopted Israel’s nonaccession reckoning. 4) Later, both kingdoms used accession reckoning until the end of their respective kingdoms, and 5) In order to make sense of the biblical data, coregencies, both those expressed explicitly in the text and those implied by the data, must be taken into account. This last principle has been much criticized when espoused by Thiele, but it is widely used by Egyptologists in their computations of Egyptian chronology.\n\nThese five principles are identical to those later discovered by Edwin R. Thiele, who was unaware of Coucke’s work when he published the results of his doctoral dissertation in 1944. It apparently was Thiele’s colleague, Siegfried Horn, who introduced Thiele to the writings of Coucke when Horn came to America in 1946. In his subsequent writings, Thiele acknowledged the earlier work of Coucke, and he was gratified that the discovery of these basic principles by two scholars working independently served to authenticate the soundness of their respective approaches. The two authors, however, differed somewhat on how to apply the principles they had discovered, so that their chronologies disagree in several places. They are in exact agreement at the beginning of the divided monarchy, which both Coucke and Thiele placed in the year starting in Nisan of 931 BC. Coucke’s method of deriving this date differed radically from Thiele’s method, as explained in the next two sections. For the end of the kingdom period, Coucke placed the fall of Jerusalem to the Babylonians in the summer of 587 BC, whereas Thiele put it a year later, in 586.\n\nCoucke had some difficulty in determining dates for Ahab, king of Israel, and so he did not place the Battle of Qarqar, at which Ahab was present, as the last year of Ahab, as Thiele did in assigning absolute (BC) dates to the first kings of Israel. His date for the battle, 854 BC, was also one year too early, although that was the date used by most Assyriologists when he wrote. He knew that it would be unwise to assign absolute dates to the kings in this time frame based on his proposed emendations of their reign lengths, and so he sought a more reliable method of finding a fixed date for the early monarchic period. He developed such a method in just three sentences of his \"Supplément\" article, using classical authors with no utilization of any biblical text. His starting place was the end of the Trojan War, which the Parian Marble dated to the year 1208 BC, seven days before the end of the month of Thargelion, that is, 10 June 1208 BC (Coucke mistakenly thought that the Marble gave the year as 1207 BC, but the correct year of 1208 BC, as given at the Ashmolean Web site, will be used in what follows). He then cited a statement of Pompeius Trogus/Justin (18:3:5) that said that Tyre was founded (or refounded) one year before the fall of Troy, that is, in 1209 BC. From Josephus, who apparently was using the archives of Tyre as his source, he determined that it was either 240 years (\"Antiquities\" 8:3:1/62) or 241 years (\"Against Apion\" 1:18/126) from Tyre’s founding to the 11th or 12th year of Hiram, King of Tyre, at which time Hiram sent assistance to Solomon at the beginning of construction of the Temple in Jerusalem. Coucke therefore determined that Temple construction began in either (1209 BC – 240 =) 969 BC or (1209 BC – 241 =) 968 BC, depending on whether it was in the eleventh year of Hiram (so \"Antiquities\") or his twelfth year (so \"Against Apion\").\n\nCoucke had another avenue of approach to the date of construction of Solomon’s Temple. Like the first approach that started from the Parian Marble’s date for the fall of Troy, his second method was also derived from classical writings, with no utilization of biblical texts. It made use of the list of Tyrian kings recorded in Josephus’s Against Apion 1:17/108 and 1:18/117–126. In providing the list of kings, Josephus said he was taking his information from Menander of Ephesus, who translated the records of the Tyrian archives from Phoenician into Greek. Although the individual reign lengths of the various kings in the list show considerable variation due to copying errors over the centuries since Josephus wrote, the total number of years given from the time that Hiram sent assistance to Solomon at the beginning of Temple construction to the flight of Dido/Elissa from Tyre, after which she and her associates founded Carthage, has been preserved intact due to its three-fold repetition. This figure is given twice as 143 years and eight months, and once as 155 years from the accession of Hiram, minus the 12 years until he began to help Solomon. This redundancy of expression has preserved the total of years in virtually all extant copies of the Tyrian King List, so that Coucke and other scholars have felt confident in using it in their calculations.\n\nCoucke derived either 825 or 824 BC as the possible dates for the founding of Carthage, based on Pompeius Trogus’s statement that it was founded 72 years before the founding of Rome, for which Coucke accepted either 753 BC (Varro) or 752 BC (Dionysius of Halicarnassus). Using the statement of Josephus/Menander that placed the founding of Solomon’s Temple 143 years earlier than the founding of Carthage, Coucke derived 968 or 967 BC as the dates for the founding of Solomon’s Temple. Since only the first of these agreed with the two dates he had derived when starting from the Parian Marble (969 and 968), he decided on 968/67 BC as the time of foundation of the Temple. He assumed Tyre used Tishri-based years, since the use of Phoenician month-names (Ziv, Bul, Ethanim) in the time of Solomon suggested that Israel and Tyre were using the same calendar at this time in their histories. With this assumption, he then turned to the biblical datum that construction began in the spring month of Ziv, deriving the date for the beginning of construction as the spring of 967 BC, with Solomon’s fourth year (1 Kings 6:1) starting in Tishri of 968 BC.\n\nOnly two publications by Coucke are known. The earlier is the article \"Chronologie des rois de Juda et d’Israël,\" \"Revue bénedictine\" 37 (1925), pp. 325–364. The ideas and chronology of this article were expanded and included in his contribution to the article \"Chronologie biblique\" in \"Supplément au dictionnaire de la Bible\", ed. Louis Pirot, vol. 1 (Paris: Librairie Letouzey et Ané, 1928), cols. 1245-1279. In late 2010, a search by the principal librarian of the Grootseminarie library, where Coucke had been principal librarian several decades previously, failed to find any further publications for which he was the author.\n\n"}
{"id": "53005497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53005497", "title": "Wilhelm Cloetta", "text": "Wilhelm Cloetta\n\nWilhelm Cloetta (16 November 1857, in Trieste – 24 September 1911, in Strassburg) was a German Romance philologist and medievalist.\n\nHe studied languages at the University of Zürich as a pupil of Heinrich Breitinger and Heinrich Schweizer-Sidler, and from 1877 continued his education in Paris, where his influences included Gaston Paris, Arsène Darmesteter and Paul Meyer. In 1884 he received his doctorate at the University of Göttingen with the dissertation \"Abfassungszeit und ueberlieferung des Poème Moral\". In 1893 he relocated to Jena, where from 1895 to 1909 he taught classes as a full professor of Romance philology. Afterwards, he served as a professor at the University of Strassburg.\n"}
