{"id": "296753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296753", "title": "4-1-1", "text": "4-1-1\n\n4-1-1 is the telephone number for local directory assistance in the United States and Canada.\n\n4-1-1 is also commonly referred to as \"D.A.\", \"Directory Assistance\", or \"Information\".\n\nApproximately 6 billion calls are made to 4-1-1 within the United States every year.\n\n4-1-1 has been used since at least 1930 in New York City, San Francisco, and other large cities where panel and crossbar switching equipment installed by the Bell System was prevalent. However, in smaller Bell System cities and almost all areas served by GTE and other companies where step-by-step equipment was the norm such as Los Angeles, 1-1-3 was used until at least the 1960s, and in some cases (the Pacific Northwest, for example) until the mid-1980s.\n\nUntil the early 1980s, 4-1-1 and 1-1-3 calls were free in most states.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, Directory Assistance was historically a local function, and most companies updated listings at their directory assistance centers almost daily. Callers would dial 4-1-1 or 1-1-3 for fast, efficient, and accurate service. When long-distance numbers were needed, prior to the full introduction of direct-dialed long-distance service, callers would call either 4-1-1 or \"0\" (Operator) and request a free long-distance connection to the directory assistance center in the distant city.\n\nIn 1962, direct-dialed long-distance directory assistance became available. The number in cities with panel and crossbar switching equipment was area code-555-1212, whereas in cities with step-by-step equipment the number was 1-555-1212 (or 112-555-1212) for numbers not local but in the same area code and 1-area code-555-1212 (or 112-area code-555-1212) for numbers in other area codes. In some area codes, the directory assistance center was able to serve the entire area code, but in many, the operator in the principal city of the area code dialed would connect the caller onward to a more local directory assistance center for the most up-to-date information.\n\nAfter the introduction of local exchange competition, most telephone companies outsourced directory assistance service to nationwide call centers. This has blurred the distinction between 4-1-1 and 555-1212. For regulatory reasons, where telephone service is provided by traditional local-exchange carriers, the local carrier will determine how to handle 411, the chosen local toll (intra-LATA) carrier will determine how to handle 555-1212 calls for area codes within the LATA, and the chosen long distance carrier for inter-LATA) calls will determine how to handle other area code-555-1212 calls. For service provided by cellular and VoIP carriers where the customer does not have a choice of local toll or long distance carriers, all calls may be handled the same way.\n\nIn North America, all areas formerly using 1-1-3 have been converted to using 4-1-1, and 1-1- is now reserved for vertical service codes. Outside North America, \"1-1-N\" numbers are still in use, for these and other services. In most European countries, \"1-1-N\" numbers are related to emergency services and 112 is the European Unified Emergency Number.\n\n4-1-1 is commonly used in the United States and Canada as a slang word for \"information\" or \"gossip\". In the 1982 \"Jump to It\" by American recording artist Aretha Franklin, for example, the lyric runs \"We have a lot of fun, don't we, girl, dishin' out\nThe dirt on everybody and givin' each other the 411\".\n\nDirect-distance dialing (DDD) was first introduced in areas with common-control switching (panel and crossbar) in the 1950s. These areas had used 4-1-1 for directory assistance, and because of the ability of common-control switching to analyze the initial digits of a number in a \"sender\" before routing the call, these areas did not require the dialing of an initial \"1\" to initiate a long-distance call. There was no ambiguity, because the initial assignment of area codes always used either a \"0\" or a \"1\" as the second digit, and the second digit of local numbers was never a \"0\" or a \"1\" because of the use of two-letter plus 5-digit local numbering, with the letters only on digits 2-9 of the dial.\n\nAreas with step-by-step equipment processed the call one digit at a time as dialed by the caller, and thus needed a common prefix to distinguish long-distance dialing from local calls. The Bell System design choice was \"1\", but since \"1-1-3\" was in use for directory assistance, along with other \"1-1-\" codes (\"Repair\" was 1-1-4)., changes had to be made in the step-by-step areas. Initially, \"1-1-2\" was used temporarily as the prefix in most of these areas. To simplify long-distance calling it was desirable to change this to a \"1\". Some areas converted immediately to 4-1-1 for directory assistance and 6-1-1 for repair. Other areas retained 1-1-3 by installing what was known as \"double-header\" trunks, which actually connected the call to the long distance equipment and then \"snatched it back\" if the second digit was also a \"1\".\n\nThe conversion proceeded as follows in Springfield, Massachusetts:\n\nThe services of directory assistance queries is often outsourced to a call centre who specializes in that function. Historically, when a single carrier provided most of the telephony services for a region, the data used to satisfy the search could exclusively come for that carriers subscriber rolls. Today, when the market is fragmented amongst many carriers, the data must be aggregated by a data aggregator specializing in directory listings, such as LSSi. The data aggregator distributes the data to the 4-1-1 services either on a \"live\" basis, actually servicing each query, or by periodically transferring large swaths of listings to the call center's systems for local searching.\n\nThe data aggregator collects the data from the rolls of many telecommunication carriers. Some carriers such as Vonage do not send their customer rolls to the aggregator. Their customers can get their listings in the directory assistance database using a free service such as ListYourself.net.\n\n4-1-1 landline service has been historically provided by local telephone companies, including those of the former Bell System or subsequent Regional Bell Operating Companies (RBOCs). Telephone carriers since that time may provide the 4-1-1 calls to the customer free of charge and [use ad supported or a customer retention model][meaning unknown]\n\nSince the 1984 Bell System divestiture, the RBOCs in the United States have priced 4-1-1 use higher to an average of $1.25 USD per call, compared to $0.50 CAD in most of Canada, providing opportunities for competing services in the United States, such as ad-sponsored 1-800-FREE-411.\n\nIn addition to the local and long distance directory services, there is also consumer-choice and privacy-protected \"Wireless 411 Service\". As specified by the industry, the service will give consumers the choice of including their wireless phone numbers in voice 411. Consumers who choose to opt in will not have their information disclosed for print, online directories, lists, or telemarketing firms. The service will allow any landline or wireless phone user to call 4-1-1 and be connected to the wireless listing of a person who has chosen to participate in the service. Carriers who make up the industry LLC creating the service include Alltel (now absorbed by Verizon Wireless), AT&T, Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2336141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336141", "title": "50 Divisions", "text": "50 Divisions\n\n50 Divisions refers to the 50 divisions of construction information, as defined by the Construction Specifications Institute (CSI)'s MasterFormat beginning in 2004. Before 2004, MasterFormat consisted of 16 Divisions. MasterFormat has continued to be updated and revised since 2004, with new numbers, titles, and a new division added in 2010 and additional updates completed in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, 2016, and 2018.\n\n\"50 Divisions\" is the most widely used standard for organizing specifications and other written information for commercial and institutional building projects in the United States and Canada. Standardizing the presentation of such information improves communication among all parties.\n\nMasterFormat 2018 Edition Divisions are:\n\nPROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTING REQUIREMENTS GROUP:\n\nSPECIFICATIONS GROUP\n\n\"General Requirements Subgroup\"\n\n\"Facility Construction Subgroup\"\n\n\"Facility Services Subgroup\":\n\"Site and Infrastructure Subgroup\":\n\n\"Process Equipment Subgroup\":\n\n"}
{"id": "4282799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4282799", "title": "8888 Uprising", "text": "8888 Uprising\n\nThe 8888 Nationwide Popular Pro-Democracy Protests (MLCTS: \"hrac le: lum:\"), also known as the 8-8-88 Uprisings, or the People Power Uprising, the People's Democracy Movement and the 1988 Uprising, were a series of nationwide protests, marches and civil unrest in Burma (Myanmar) that peaked in August 1988. Key events occurred on 8 August 1988 and therefore it is known as the 8888 Uprising. The protests began as a student movement and were organised largely by university students at the Rangoon Arts and Sciences University and the Rangoon Institute of Technology (RIT).\n\nSince 1962, the Burma Socialist Programme Party had ruled the country as a totalitarian one-party state, headed by General Ne Win. Under the government agenda, called the Burmese Way to Socialism, which involved economic isolation and strengthening the military, Burma became one of the world's most impoverished countries. Many firms in the formal sector of the economy were nationalised, and the government combined Soviet-style central planning with Buddhist and traditional beliefs.\n\nThe 8888 uprising was started by students in Yangon (Rangoon) on 8 August 1988. Student protests spread throughout the country. Hundreds of thousands of monks, children, university students, housewives, doctors and common people protested against the government. The uprising ended on 18 September after a bloody military coup by the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC). Thousands of deaths have been attributed to the military during this uprising, while authorities in Myanmar put the figure at around 350 people killed.\n\nDuring the crisis, Aung San Suu Kyi emerged as a national icon. When the military junta arranged an election in 1990, her party, the National League for Democracy, won 81% of the seats in the government (392 out of 492). However, the military junta refused to recognise the results and continued ruling the country as the State Law and Order Restoration Council. Aung San Suu Kyi was also put under house arrest. The State Law and Order Restoration Council would be a cosmetic change from the Burma Socialist Programme Party. Suu Kyi's house arrest was lifted in 2010, when worldwide attention for her peaked again during the making of the biographical film \"The Lady\".\n\nBefore the crisis, Burma had been ruled by the repressive and isolated regime of General Ne Win since 1962. The country had a national debt of $3.5 billion and currency reserves of between $20 million and $35 million, with debt service ratios standing at half of the national budget. In November 1985, students gathered and boycotted the government's decision to withdraw Burmese local currency notes. Economic problems coupled with counter-insurgency required continuous involvement in the international market.\n\nOn 5 September 1987, Ne Win announced the withdrawal of the newly replaced currency notes, 100, 75, 35 and 25 kyats, leaving only 45 and 90 kyat notes, apparently because only the latter two are numbers divisible by 9, considered lucky by Ne Win. Students were particularly angry at the government's decision as savings for tuition fees were wiped out instantly. Students from the Rangoon Institute of Technology (RIT) ran riot through Rangoon, smashing windows and traffic lights down Insein Road. Universities in Rangoon closed and sent students home. Meanwhile, larger protests in Mandalay involved monks and workers, with some burning government buildings and state businesses. Burmese state media reported little on the protests, but information quickly spread through the students.\n\nWith the re-opening of schools in late October 1987, underground groups in Rangoon and Mandalay produced dissident leaflets which culminated in bombs exploding in November. Police later received threatening letters from underground groups, who organised small protests around the university campus. After securing Least Developed Country status from the United Nations Economic and Social Council in December 1987, government policy requiring farmers to sell produce below market rates to create greater revenue for the government sparked several, violent rural protests. The protests were fanned by public letters to Ne Win by former second in command General Brigadier Aung Gyi from July 1987, reminding him of the 1967 rice riots and condemning lack of economic reform, describing Burma as \"almost a joke\" compared to other Southeast Asian nations. He was later arrested.\n\nOn 12 March 1988, students from the RIT were arguing with out-of-school youths inside the \"Sanda Win\" tea shop about music playing on a sound system. A drunken youth would not return a tape that the RIT students favoured. A brawl followed in which one youth, who was the son of a BSPP official, was arrested and later released for injuring a student. Students protested at a local police department where 500 riot police were mobilised and in the ensuing clash, one student, Phone Maw, was shot and killed. The incident angered pro-democracy groups and the next day more students rallied at the RIT and spread to other campuses. The students, who had never protested before, increasingly saw themselves as activists. There was growing resentment towards military rule and there were no channels to address grievances, further exacerbated by police brutality, economic mismanagement and corruption within the government.\n\nBy mid-March, several protests had occurred and there was open dissent in the army. Various demonstrations were broken up by using tear gas canisters to disperse crowds. On 16 March, students demanding an end to one party rule marched towards soldiers at Inya Lake when riot police stormed from the rear, clubbing several students to death and raping others. Several students recalled the police shouting, \"Don't let them escape\" and \"Kill them!\".\n\nFollowing the latest protests, authorities announced the closure of universities for several months. By June 1988, large demonstrations of students and sympathisers were a daily sight. Many students, sympathisers and riot police died throughout the month as the protests spread throughout Burma from Rangoon. Large scale protests were reported in Pegu, Mandalay, Tavoy, Toungoo, Sittwe, Pakokku, Mergui, Minbu and Myitkyina. Demonstrators in larger numbers demanded multi-party democracy, which marked Ne Win's resignation on 23 July 1988. In a valedictory address given that day, Win affirmed that \"When the army shoots, it shoots to kill.\" He also promised a multi-party system, but he had appointed the largely disliked Sein Lwin, known as the \"Butcher of Rangoon\" to head a new government.\n\nProtests reached their peak in August 1988. Students planned for a nationwide demonstration on 8 August 1988, an auspicious date based on numerological significance. News of the protest reached rural areas and four days prior to the national protest, students across the country were denouncing Sein Lwin's regime and Tatmadaw troops were being mobilised. Pamphlets and posters appeared on the streets of Rangoon bearing the fighting peacock insignia of the All-Burma Students Union. Neighbourhood and strike committees were openly formed on the advice of underground activists, many of which were influenced by similar underground movements by workers and monks in the 1980s. Between 2 and 10 August, co-ordinated protests were occurring in most Burmese towns.\n\nDuring this period, dissident newspapers were freely publishing, fighting-peacock banners were unfurled, synchronised marches were held and rally speakers were protected. In Rangoon, the first signs of the movement began around the Buddhist full moon of \"Waso\" at the Shwedagon Pagoda when student demonstrators emerged demanding support for the demonstrations. Neighbourhood and strike committees barricaded and defended neighbourhoods and mobilised further demonstrations. In some areas, committees built makeshift stages where speakers addressed the crowds and brought donations to support rallies.\nIn the first few days of the Rangoon protests, activists contacted lawyers and monks in Mandalay to encourage them to take part in the protests. The students were quickly joined by Burmese citizens from all walks of life, including government workers, Buddhist monks, air force and navy personnel, customs officers, teachers and hospital staff. The demonstrations in the streets of Rangoon became a focal point for other demonstrations, which spread to other states' capitals. 10,000 protesters alone demonstrated outside the Sule Pagoda in Rangoon, where demonstrators burned and buried effigies of Ne Win and Sein Lwin in coffins decorated with demonetised bank notes. Further protests took place around the country at stadiums and hospitals. Monks at the Sule Pagoda reported that the Buddha's image had changed shape, with an image in the sky standing on its head. On 3 August, the authorities imposed martial law from 8 pm to 4 am and a ban on gatherings of more than five people.\n\nA general strike, as planned, began on 8 August 1988. Mass demonstrations were held across Burma as ethnic minorities, Buddhists, Muslims, students, workers and the young and old all demonstrated. The first procession circled Rangoon, stopping for people to speak. A stage was also erected. Demonstrators from the Rangoon neighbourhoods converged in downtown Rangoon. Only one casualty was reported at this point as a frightened traffic policeman fired into the crowd and fled. (Such marches would occur daily until 19 September.) Protesters kissed the shoes of soldiers, in an attempt to persuade them to join the civilian protest, whilst some encircled military officers to protect them from the crowd and earlier violence Over the next four days these demonstrations continued; the government was surprised by the scale of the protests and stated that it promised to heed the demands of the protesters \"insofar as possible\". Lwin had brought in more soldiers from insurgent areas to deal with the protesters.\n\nIn Mandalay Division, a more organised strike committee was headed by lawyers and discussion focused on multi-party democracy and human rights. Many participants in the protests arrived from nearby towns and villages. Farmers who were particularly angry with the government's economic policies joined the protests in Rangoon. In one village, 2,000 of the 5,000 people also went on strike.\n\nA short while later, the authorities opened fire on the protesters. Ne Win ordered that \"guns were not to shoot upwards,\" meaning that he was ordering the military to shoot directly at the demonstrators. Protesters responded by throwing Molotov cocktails, swords, knives, rocks, poisoned darts and bicycle spokes. In one incident, protesters burned a police station and tore apart four fleeing officers. On 10 August, soldiers fired into Rangoon General Hospital, killing nurses and doctors tending to the wounded. State-run Radio Rangoon reported that 1,451 \"looters and disturbance makers\" had been arrested.\n\nEstimates of the number of casualties surrounding the 8-8-88 demonstrations range from hundreds to 10,000; military authorities put the figures at about 95 people killed and 240 wounded.\n\nLwin's sudden and unexplained resignation on 12 August left many protestors confused and jubilant. Security forces exercised greater caution with demonstrators, particularly in neighbourhoods that were entirely controlled by demonstrators and committees. On 19 August, under pressure to form a civilian government, Ne Win's biographer, Dr. Maung Maung was appointed as head of government. Maung was a legal scholar and the only non-military individual to serve in the Burma Socialist Programme Party. The appointment of Maung briefly resulted in a subsidence of the shooting and protests.\nNationwide demonstrations resumed on 22 August 1988. In Mandalay, 100,000 people protested, including Buddhist monks and 50,000 demonstrated in Sittwe. Large marches took places from Taunggyi and Moulmein to distant ethnic states (particularly where military campaigns had previously taken place), where red, the symbolic colour for democracy was displayed on banners. Two days later, doctors, monks, musicians, actors, lawyers, army veterans and government office workers joined the protests. It became difficult for committees to control the protests. During this time, demonstrators became increasingly wary of \"suspicious looking\" people and police and army officers. On one occasion, a local committee mistakenly beheaded a couple thought to have been carrying a bomb. Incidents like these were not as common in Mandalay, where protests were more peaceful as they were organised by monks and lawyers.\n\nOn 26 August, Aung San Suu Kyi, who had watched the demonstrations from her mother's bedside, entered the political arena by addressing half a million people at Shwedagon Pagoda. It was at this point that she became a symbol for the struggle in Burma, particularly in the eyes of the Western world. Kyi, as the daughter of Aung San, who led the independence movement, appeared ready to lead the movement for democracy. Kyi urged the crowd not to turn on the army but find peace through non-violent means. At this point in time for many in Burma, the uprising was seen as similar to that of the People Power Revolution in the Philippines in 1986.\n\nAround this time, former Prime Minister U Nu and retired Brigadier General Aung Gyi also re-emerged onto the political scene in what was described as a \"democracy summer\" when many former democracy leaders returned. Despite the gains made by the democracy movement, Ne Win remained in the background.\n\nDuring the September congress of 1988, 90% of party delegates (968 out of 1080) voted for a multi-party system of government. The BSPP announced they would be organising an election, but the opposition parties called for their immediate resignation from government, allowing an interim government to organise elections. After the BSPP rejected both demands, protesters again took to the streets on 12 September 1988. Nu promised elections within a month, proclaiming a provisional government. Meanwhile, the police and army began fraternising with the protesters. The movement had reached an impasse relying on three hopes: daily demonstrations to force the regime to respond to their demands, encouraging soldiers to defect and appealing to an international audience in the hope that United Nations or United States troops would arrive. Some Tatmadaw did defect, but only in limited numbers, mostly from the Navy. Stephen Solarz who had experienced the recent democracy protests in the Philippines and South Korea arrived in Burma in September encouraging the regime to reform, which echoed the policy of the United States government towards Burma.\n\nBy mid-September, the protests grew more violent and lawless, with soldiers deliberately leading protesters into skirmishes that the army easily won. Protesters demanded more immediate change, and distrusted steps for incremental reform.\n\nOn 18 September 1988, the military retook power in the country. General Saw Maung repealed the 1974 constitution and established the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC), \"imposing more Draconian measures than Ne Win had imposed.\" After Maung had imposed martial law, the protests were violently broken up. The government announced on the state-run radio that the military had assumed power in the people's interest, \"in order to bring a timely halt to the deteriorating conditions on all sides all over the country.\" Tatmadaw troops went through cities throughout Burma, indiscriminately firing on protestors.\n\nAlthough an exact body count has not been determined as bodies were often cremated, it is estimated that within the first week of securing power, 1,000 students, monks, and schoolchildren were killed, and another 500 were killed whilst protesting outside the United States embassy – footage caught by a cameraman nearby who distributed the footage to the world's media. Maung described the dead as \"looters\". Protestors were also pursued into the jungle and some students took up training on the country's borders with Thailand.\n\nBy the end of September, there were around 3,000 estimated deaths and unknown number of injured, with 1,000 deaths in Rangoon alone. At this point in time, Aung San Suu Kyi appealed for help. On 21 September, the government had regained control of the country, with the movement effectively collapsing in October. By the end of 1988, it was estimated that 10,000 people – including protesters and soldiers, had been killed. Many others were missing.\n\nMany in Burma believed that the regime would have collapsed had the United Nations and neighbouring countries refused recognition to the coup. Western governments and Japan cut aid to the country. Among Burma's neighbours, India was most critical; condemning the suppression, closing borders and setting up refugee camps along its border with Burma. By 1989, 6,000 NLD supporters were detained in custody and those who fled to the ethnic border areas, such as Kawthoolei, formed groups with those who wished for greater self-determination. It was estimated 10,000 had fled to mountains controlled by ethnic insurgents such as the Karen National Liberation Army, and many later trained to become soldiers.\n\nAfter the uprising, the SLORC embarked on \"clumsy propaganda\" towards those who organised the protests. Intelligence Chief Khin Nyunt, gave English-language press conferences aimed at providing an account favourable to the SLORC towards foreign diplomats and media. The Burmese media underwent further restriction during this period, after reporting relatively freely at the peak of the protests. In the conferences, he detailed a conspiracy of the right acting with \"subversive foreigners\" of plotting to overthrow the regime and a conspiracy of the left acting to overthrow the State. Despite the conferences, few believed the government's theory. While these conferences were ongoing, the SLORC was secretly negotiating with mutineers.\n\nBetween 1988 and 2000, the Burmese government established 20 museums detailing the military's central role throughout Burma's history and increased its numbers from 180,000 to 400,000. Schools and universities remained closed to prevent any further uprisings. Aung San Suu Kyi, U Tin Oo and Aung Gyi initially publicly rejected the SLORC's offer to hold elections the following year, claiming that they could not be held freely under military rule.\n\nToday, the uprising is remembered and honoured by Burmese expatriates and citizens alike. There is also support for the movement amongst students in Thailand, which is commemorated every 8 August since. On the 20th anniversary of the uprising, 48 activists in Burma were arrested for commemorating the event. The event garnered much support for the Burmese people internationally. Poems were written by students who participated in the protests. The 1995 film \"Beyond Rangoon\" is based on a true story that took place during the uprising.\n\nThe uprising led to the death and imprisonment of thousands of individuals. Many of the deaths were inside the prisons, where prisoners of conscience were subjected to inhumane torture and deprived of basic provisions, such as food, water, medicine, and sanitation. From 1988 up until 2012, the military and police illegally detained and imprisoned tens of thousands of democracy leaders, as well as intellectuals, artists, students, and human rights activists. Pyone Cho, one of the leaders of the uprising, spent 20 years of his adult life in prison. Ko Ko Gyi, another leader of the uprising, spent 18 years of his life in prison. Min Ko Naing was placed in solitary confinement for nine years for his role as a leader of the uprising. Because the uprising began as a student movement, many of the individuals targeted, tortured, and killed by the police and military were high school and university students.\n\nMany of the student leaders of the uprising became lifelong activists and human rights leaders. Many of the same activists played a role 19 years later during the 2007 Saffron Revolution. The 88 Generation Students Group, named for the events of 8 August 1988, organised one of the first protests that eventually culminated in the Saffron Revolution. They were arrested, however, prior to large-scale demonstrations and given lengthy prison sentences of up to 65 years. Included in these arrests are prominent figures such as Min Ko Naing, Mya Aye, Htay Kywe, Mie Mie, Ko Ko Gyi, Pyone Cho, Min Zeyar, Ant Bwe Kyaw, and Nilar Thein. Though not an 88 Generation Students Group member, a solo protester Ohn Than also joined the demonstration. All of them were released in a general amnesty in 2012. They continue to work as politicians and human rights activists in Myanmar. They also campaigned for the National League for Democracy in the 2015 Elections. Pyone Cho, one of the main leaders of the 88 Generation, was elected to the House of Representatives in the 2015 Election.\n\n\nBooks and journals\n\n"}
{"id": "3296101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3296101", "title": "ARP4761", "text": "ARP4761\n\nARP4761, Guidelines and Methods for Conducting the Safety Assessment Process on Civil Airborne Systems and Equipment is an Aerospace Recommended Practice from SAE International. In conjunction with ARP4754, ARP4761 is used to demonstrate compliance with 14 CFR 25.1309 in the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) airworthiness regulations for transport category aircraft, and also harmonized international airworthiness regulations such as European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) CS–25.1309.\n\nThis Recommended Practice defines a process for using common modeling techniques to assess the safety of a system being put together. The first 30 pages of the document covers that process. The next 140 pages give an overview of the modeling techniques and how they should be applied. The last 160 pages give an example of the process in action.\n\nSome of the methods covered:\n\nThe general flow of the safety life cycle under ARP4761 is:\n\nThe Functional Safety process is focused on identifying functional failure conditions leading to hazards. Functional Hazard Analyses / Assessments are central to determining hazards. FHA is performed early in aircraft design, first as an Aircraft Functional Hazard Analysis (AFHA) and then as a System Functional Hazard Analysis (SFHA). Using qualitative assessment, aircraft functions and subsequently aircraft system functions are systematically analyzed for failure conditions, and each failure condition is assigned a hazard classification. Hazard classifications are closely related to Development Assurance Levels (DALs) and are aligned between ARP4761 and related aviation safety documents such as ARP4754A, 14 CFR 25.1309, and Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics (RTCA) standards DO-254 and DO-178B. \nFHA results are normally shown in spreadsheet form, with columns identifying function, failure condition, phase of flight, effect, hazard classification, DAL, means of detection, aircrew response, and related information. Each hazard is assigned a unique identifier that is tracked throughout the entire safety life cycle. One approach is to identify systems by their ATA system codes and the corresponding hazards by derivative identifiers. For example, the thrust reverser system could be identified by its ATA code 78-30. Untimely deployment of thrust reverser would be a hazard, which could be assigned an identifier based on ATA code 78-30.\n\nFHA results are coordinated with the system design process as aircraft functions are allocated to aircraft systems. The FHA also feeds into the PSSA, which is prepared while the system architecture is developed.\n\nThe PSSA may contain qualitative FTA, which can be used to identify systems requiring redundancy so that catastrophic events do not result from a single failure (or dual failure where one is latent). A fault tree is prepared for each SFHA hazard rated hazardous or catastrophic. Fault trees may be performed for major hazards if warranted. DALs and specific safety design requirements are imposed on the subsystems. The safety design requirements are captured and traced. These may include preventive or mitigation strategies selected for particular subsystems. The PSSA and CCA generate separation requirements to identify and eliminate common mode failures. Subsystem failure rate budgets are assigned so that hazard probability limits can be met.\n\nThe CCA consists of three separate types of analyses which are designed to uncover hazards not created by a specific subsystem component failure. The CCA may be many separate documents, may be one CCA document, or may be included as sections in the SSA document. The Particular Risk Analysis (PRA) looks for external events which can create a hazard such as a birdstrike or engine turbine burst. The Zonal Safety Analysis (ZSA) looks at each compartment on the aircraft and looks for hazards that can affect every component in that compartment, such as loss of cooling air or a fluid line bursting. The Common Mode Analysis (CMA) looks at the redundant critical components to find failure modes which can cause all to fail at about the same time. Software is always included in this analysis as well as looking for manufacturing errors or \"bad lot\" components. A failure such as a bad resistor in all flight control computers would be addressed here. The mitigations for CMA discoveries is often DO-254 or DO-178B components.\n\nThe SSA includes quantitative FMEA, which is summarized into FMES. Normally FMES probabilities are used in quantitative FTA to demonstrate that the hazard probability limits are in fact met. Cutset analysis of the fault trees demonstrates that no single failure condition will result in a hazardous or catastrophic event. The SSA may include the results of all safety analysis and be one document or may be many documents. An FTA is only one method for performing the SSA. Other methods include dependence diagram or reliability block diagram and Markov Analysis.\n\nThe PSSA and CCA often result in recommendations or design requirements to improve the system. The SSA summarizes the residual risks remaining in the system and should show all hazards meet the 1309 failure rates.\n\nThe ARP4761 analyses also feed into Crew Alerting System (CAS) message selection and the development of critical maintenance tasks under ATA MSG3.\n\nIn 2004, SAE Standard Committee S-18 began working on Revision A to ARP4761. When released, EUROCAE plans to jointly issue the document as ED–135.\n\n"}
{"id": "25790616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25790616", "title": "American Freedom Party", "text": "American Freedom Party\n\nThe American Freedom Party (formerly the American Third Position Party or A3P) is a Third Position American political party that promotes white nationalism. In November 2009 it filed papers to get on a ballot in California, and was launched in January 2010. According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, it was created to channel the right-wing populist resentment engendered by the financial crisis of 2007–2010 and the policies of the Obama administration.\n\nThe party chairman is Los Angeles attorney William Daniel Johnson. Long Beach State University professor of psychology Kevin B. MacDonald has been named one of the eight party Directors, and is also a principal contributor to \"The Occidental Quarterly\" where he has contributed articles claiming that a suite of traits that he attributes to Jews, including higher-than-average verbal intelligence and ethnocentricism, have eugenically and culturally evolved to enhance the ability of Jews to out-compete non-Jews for resources. MacDonald believes this advantage has been used by a number of Jews to advance Jewish group interests and end potential antisemitism by either deliberately or inadvertently undermining the power and self-confidence of the European-derived majorities in the Western world.\n\nA 2006 article in \"The Nation\" magazine reports that MacDonald's 2004 \"Understanding Jewish Influence: A Study in Ethnic Activism\" \"has turned MacDonald into a celebrity within white nationalist and neo-Nazi circles.\" Writing in the \"Journal of Church and State,\" Professor George Michael noted that MacDonald's work \"has been well received by those in the racialist right, as it amounts to a theoretically sophisticated justification for anti-Semitism,\" and that on the far right MacDonald \"has attained a near reverential status and is generally considered beyond reproach\".\n\nNew Hampshire state party chairman Ryan Murdough ran in the Republican primary for a seat representing the Eighth District of the Grafton County delegation to the New Hampshire House of Representatives, but he was refused support by the Republican party, which called him a \"despicable racist\". He placed fifth out of five candidates in the Republican primary, garnering 296 votes (11%). Murdough was the National Political Director for the National Socialist American Labor Party, a party which espouses Nazi beliefs.\n\nIn November 2009 the American Third Position Party filed papers with the office of the Secretary of State of California, hoping to become a fully ballot-accessible party by the time of the June 2010 California primary election. However, the party failed to qualify and did not get on the 2010 ballot in California or any other state. The party received enough signatures to get Harry Bertram on the ballot for the 2011 West Virginia gubernatorial special election. Bertram's campaign ran a television ad emphasizing his desire to advance the interests of white Americans. Bertram was soundly defeated in the election, coming in last place out of 5 candidates on the ballot and netting only 1,111 votes; less than 0.4 percent of the total.\n\nIn January 2012, the American Third Position Party announced Merlin Miller as its presidential nominee for the 2012 presidential election. Virginia Abernethy was announced as his running mate. According to an AmericanFreedomUnion.com posting, they obtained ballot access in Colorado, New Jersey, and Tennessee.\n\nKenn Gividen was nominated by the party as its candidate for president and Bob Whitaker was nominated for vice president on March 2015. Gividen resigned from the nomination on 26 July 2015 after holding the role for 4 months; Whitaker then stepped into the role as candidate for president. Whitaker, best known for coining the phrase “White Genocide” to describe the declining percentage of whites in the United States, gave up the nomination on 7 April 2016 in protest over the party's growing support for Donald Trump.\n\nIn early February 2012 members of the hacker group Anonymous released statements claiming to have hacked the website of the party and various forums and email accounts connected with the group, including that of Jamie Kelso, the website's operator.\nThe front page of the party's website was defaced with #OpBlitzkrieg (the designated name used in January 2012 for a series of Anonymous cyber-attacks on German Neo-Nazi websites) and private information about the organization's members was released.\n\nOn February 1, 2013, the party's website carried an announcement that the party was changing its name to \"American Freedom Party\", although the values and mission would remain unchanged.\n\n"}
{"id": "20807688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20807688", "title": "Artillery museum", "text": "Artillery museum\n\nAn artillery museum is a museum exhibiting the history and artifacts of artillery. In addition to actual or replica ordnance (guns, mortars, ammunition, etc.), exhibits can include photographs, maps, models, dioramas, clothing and equipment used by gunners.\n\nArtillery museums may be owned by national, regional or local governments or entities, or by private associations. They may display their equipment only statically or in working order (e.g.: self-propelled guns).\n\nSome museums have sets of periodicals, technical manuals, photographs and personal archives. These are often made available to researchers for use in writing articles or books, or to restoration specialists.\n\n"}
{"id": "4694927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4694927", "title": "Bermuda Admiralty Case", "text": "Bermuda Admiralty Case\n\nThe Bermuda Admiralty Case occurred in 1861 during the Union blockade of the Confederacy. Confederate agents in Liverpool, England were loading a British steamer, the Bermuda, with munitions for the Confederate Army when United States Minister Charles Francis Adams learned of it, and notified Foreign Secretary Lord Russell. Russell replied that the Crown Admiralty law officers found the evidence insufficient to warrant interference; their law applied only to the equipment of vessels to be used as transports or cruisers, and not to the nature of the cargo. The \"Bermuda\" sailed, and safely ran the blockade into Savannah.\n\nSource: \"Dictionary of American History\" by James Truslow Adams, New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1940\n"}
{"id": "21390793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21390793", "title": "Big Bethel AME Church", "text": "Big Bethel AME Church\n\nThe Big Bethel AME Church is the oldest African-American congregation in the Sweet Auburn neighborhood of Atlanta, Georgia, and according to AME historical documents, it is the mother church of AME in North Georgia. It is located at 220 Auburn Avenue NE in the Sweet Auburn neighborhood. It is the \"first\" church on the North Atlanta District, in the Atlanta-North Georgia Annual Conference of the African Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\nBig Bethel was founded in 1847 as Union Church in the town of Marthasville, Georgia. Marthasville became Terminus, and finally Atlanta, and Union Church became Bethel Church, then Bethel Tabernacle. At the close of the Civil War, the AME Church spread rapidly throughout the former Confederacy, and the Bethel Tabernacle allied herself with the denomination, becoming Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Her first pastor was Rev. Joseph Woods.\n\nIn 1879, the first public school for blacks in Atlanta, Gate City Colored School, was founded in the basement of the church, though it would later move to Houston Street. Morris Brown College held its first classes here in 1881 before moving to its first campus. Big Bethel was known as \"Sweet Auburn's City Hall.\" In 1911, President William Howard Taft spoke here, as did Nelson Mandela in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "36075065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36075065", "title": "Blesovsky v Shipper", "text": "Blesovsky v Shipper\n\nBlesovsky NO and Others v Shipper and Another is an important case in South African company law, particularly in the area of close corporations and the qualifications for membership. It was heard in the Witwatersrand Local Division by Budlender AJ on June 6, 2001, with judgment handed down June 12. S. Joseph SC appeared for the applicants and A. Kemack for the first respondent. There was no appearance for the second respondent.\n\nIn terms of section 29(1) of the Close Corporations Act, only natural persons are permitted to be members of a close corporation, subject to certain exceptions in section 29(2)(b) and (c). In terms of s 29(2)(c), \"a natural or juristic person, \"nomine officii\" who, in the case of a member who is insolvent, deceased, mentally disordered or otherwise incapable or incompetent to manage his affairs, is a trustee of his insolvent estate or an administrator, executor or curator in respect of such member or is otherwise a person who is his duly appointed or authorised legal representative\" qualifies for membership.\n\nIn the present case, in which a member of a close corporation was deceased, the executor of the deceased's estate qualified for membership of the corporation. The court found, however, on the plain meaning of the Act, that an executor may hold a member's interest in a close corporation only if the deceased held that member's interest at the time of his death: Only an executor of a deceased estate where the deceased was a member of the close corporation in question falls within the exception in s 29(2)(c).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2422721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2422721", "title": "Broadside (printing)", "text": "Broadside (printing)\n\nA broadside is a large sheet of paper printed on one side only. Historically, broadsides were used as posters, announcing events or proclamations, commentary in the form of ballads, or simply advertisements.\n\nThe historical type of broadsides, designed to be plastered onto walls, were ephemera, i.e., temporary documents created for a specific purpose and intended to be thrown away. They were one of the most common forms of printed material between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries, particularly in Britain, Ireland and North America. They were often advertisements, but could also be used for news information or proclamations.\n\nBroadsides were a very popular medium for printing topical ballads starting in the 16th century. Broadside ballads were printed on thin sheets of paper and sold in the Victorian era London for a penny or half-penny. Broadsides were generally folded twice to make small pamphlets or chapbooks. Collections of songs in chapbooks were known as garlands. Broadside ballads lasted longer in Ireland, and although never produced in such huge numbers in North America, they were significant in the eighteenth century and provided an important medium of propaganda, on both sides, in the American War of Independence.\n\nBroadsides were commonly sold at public executions in the United Kingdom in the 18th and 19th centuries. These were often produced by printers who specialised in them. They were typically illustrated by a crude picture of the crime, a portrait of the criminal, or a generic woodcut of a hanging taking place. There would be a written account of the crime and of the trial and often the criminal's confession of guilt. A doggerel verse warning others to not follow the executed person's example, to avoid their fate, was another common feature.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, the advent of newspapers and inexpensive novels resulted in the demise of the street literature broadside.\n\nOne classic example of a broadside used for proclamations is the Dunlap broadside, which was the first publication of the United States Declaration of Independence, printed on the night of July 4, 1776 by John Dunlap of Philadelphia in an estimated 200 copies. An example of a broadside used for news information is the first published account of George Washington crossing the Delaware, printed on December 30, 1776 by John Dunlap.\n\nToday, broadside printing is done by many smaller printers and publishers as a fine art variant, with poems often being available as broadsides, intended to be framed and hung on the wall. Broadsides pasted on walls are still used as a form of mass communication in Haredi Jewish communities, where they are known by the Yiddish term \"pashkevil\" (pasquil), even if they are not attacks or lampoons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32605213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32605213", "title": "Collaborative Cataloging", "text": "Collaborative Cataloging\n\nCollaborative Cataloging is \nshared action of a group making bibliographic records available to its participants in order to prevent duplication of bibliographic records. Thus, cooperative cataloging has benefits such as cost effectiveness and availability of a ready cataloging model\n\nA notable example of collaborative cataloging takes place at the National Transportation Library or NTL, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation. NTL participates in a consortium called the National Transportation Knowledge Network (TKN), “which was establishe[d]… to help facilitate access to information in support of transportation development\". Pursuing that goal, the TKN engages in cooperative cataloging with other transportation libraries. For example, in early summer 2011, the TKN held a meeting on cataloging standards that are used by transportation libraries nationwide.\n\nMore specifically, NTL uses cooperative cataloging to examine subject headings that are used in transportation literature. NTL is a key player in the organization of subject headings and has made significant contributions to the Transportation Research Thesaurus. The Transportation Research Thesaurus, or TRT, is a controlled vocabulary that was developed to improve the indexing and retrieval of transportation information. The TRT is used by indexers, content managers and librarians in the transportation community and is an internationally recognized standard.\n\n"}
{"id": "53796488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53796488", "title": "Comparative army enlisted ranks of Asia", "text": "Comparative army enlisted ranks of Asia\n\nRank comparison chart of armies/ land forces of Asian states.\n\n"}
{"id": "2317639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2317639", "title": "Comparison of Internet Relay Chat clients", "text": "Comparison of Internet Relay Chat clients\n\nThe following tables compare general and technical information between a number of IRC client programs which have been in independent published literature.\n\nBasic general information about the clients: creator/company, license, etc. Clients listed on a light purple background are no longer in active development.\n\nA brief overview of the release history.\n\nThe operating systems on which the clients can run natively (without emulation).\n\nUnix and Unix-like operating systems:\n\nWhat IRC related protocols and standards are supported by each client.\n\nInformation on what features each of the clients support.\n\n"}
{"id": "48074735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48074735", "title": "Dictionary of Love", "text": "Dictionary of Love\n\nA Dictionary of Love, Or, the Language of Gallantry Explained is a dictionary originally compiled by the British author John Cleland in 1753 and revised in 1777 and 1795, though there is no evidence that Cleland was involved with the revisions. It continued to appear in reprints until 1825. It explains the words used by lovers in conversation and courtship in an 'unsentimental' way, cynically interpreting the terms to suggest that readers should not take lovers' words literally.\n\nCleland produced the dictionary as a partial translation of the French \"Dictionnaire d’Amour\" of 1741 by Jean-François Dreux du Radier, with the addition of his own entries, which comprise about a quarter of the entries, and about a fifth of the contents of the original omitted. The dictionary was originally published as an anonymous work by Ralph Griffiths, also the publisher of Cleland's novel \"Fanny Hill\", and Griffiths reviewed the book himself in his journal, the \"Monthly Review\". Because of the lack of attribution, its authorship was unknown for many years, but in 1979 Roger Lonsdale discovered a note by Griffiths in his own copy of the review, identifying 'Mr Cleland' as the author.\n\n"}
{"id": "40799702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40799702", "title": "Ex Parte Boedel Steenkamp", "text": "Ex Parte Boedel Steenkamp\n\nIn Ex Parte Boedel Steenkamp, an important case in the South African law of persons and succession, heard on June 21, 1962, the residue of the deceased’s estate was bequeathed in equal shares in his will to his daughter and his daughter’s children \"wat by datum van dood in die lewe is\" (who are alive when I die). At the time of the deceased’s death, his daughter had two children and was pregnant with a third. The question before the court was whether the \"nasciturus\" could inherit. The court was unwilling to act to the prejudice of the \"nasciturus\", and held, therefore, that it could inherit. A child \"in ventre matris\" had to be presumed to be alive for the purpose of inheritance, and was entitled to inherit equally with his mother, the testator's daughter, and her other children already born at the death of the testator.\n\nThe applicant's attorneys were McIntyre & van der Post.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16925641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925641", "title": "Gardens of the Winter Palace", "text": "Gardens of the Winter Palace\n\nThe gardens of the Winter Palace, St Petersburg, are little known, as the great imperial palace of the Romanovs was never intended to have gardens. As the Tsar's principal residence, situated in the capital, it was very much intended as a symbol of power rather than a place of relaxation and pleasure. \n\nBordered by the River Neva on its northern side and Palace Square on its southern, the Winter Palace was devoid of space for gardens; however, the last two empresses of Russia each created gardens from previously paved areas.\n\nIn 1885, Tsaritsa Maria Feodorovna, wife of Alexander III, had a garden created in the principal courtyard, an area which had previously been paved. This was designed in a formal rectangular shape, reflecting the shape of the courtyard which contained it. The lawned garden was planted with trees and shrubs, and surrounded by a cobbled carriage drive which led from the palace's principal arched entrance on Palace Square to the various doors giving access to the palace's interior from the courtyard.\n\nThe second garden was created in 1896 for Tsaritsa Alexandra Feodorovna, wife of the last Tsar, Nicholas II, who lived briefly at the palace at the turn of the 20th century. She found the public access to all the exterior facades of the palace disconcerting, and disliked the way that the members of the public would stare at the windows of the private apartments in the western part of the palace. She also wished for an area where her children could play in privacy and seclusion, as a result she had a garden created on the parade ground beneath her windows. This was surrounded by a high wall topped with railings. The garden was created based on a project by landscape architect Georg Kuphaldt, the director of the Riga city gardens and parks.\n\n"}
{"id": "35086251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35086251", "title": "Gary M. Feinman", "text": "Gary M. Feinman\n\nGary M. Feinman (born 1951) is an American archaeologist, and the MacArthur Curator of Mesoamerican, Central American, and East Asian Anthropology at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. He was a part of the Valley of Oaxaca Settlement Pattern Project which focused on the evolution of the Monte Albán state and shifts in settlement in the region over three millennia. He has conducted research in the Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico for over 30 years, most recently in the lands of the communities Tlacolula, Mitla, Matatlán, and Ejutla. These studies focused on household excavations at three sites (Ejutla, El Palmillo, and the Mitla Fortress). Most recently, he has begun excavations at Lambityeco in collaboration with representatives of the Mexican Institute of Anthropology and History. At Lambityeco, Feinman and colleagues have documented a large Classic-period ball court, which was not previously recorded during surface mapping of this site. The Field Museum of Natural History team also found the largest carved stone ever recovered at this site.\n\nSince 1995 Feinman has also been conducting archaeological survey in coastal Shandong Province, China in conjunction with Shandong University. The coastal Shandong settlement pattern research, spearheaded by Feinman, Linda Nicholas (Field Museum), and Professor Fang Hui (Shandong University) has had a role in introducing this regional-scale systematic field methodology to Chinese archaeology. The team has documented a large segment of the ancient Qi Great Wall, which was built during the Warring States period, and ultimately was breached by Qin armies just prior to the first unification of China.\n\nFeinman is the author of numerous articles, books, and book chapters. He is the founding co-editor of the \"Journal of Archaeological Research\", past editor of \"Latin American Antiquity\", and a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nFeinman helped to develop full coverage survey methods, which he and colleagues applied to the Valley of Oaxaca to help understand the evolution of the Monte Alban state The particular method developed by Feinman and colleagues Richard Blanton and Stephen Kowalewski influenced a generation of archaeologists and are still widely used today. Feinman continues to employ and refine this method in his ongoing work in the Valley of Oaxaca and Shandong Province, China.\n\nFeinman was an early proponent of world-systems theory, and actively applied it to the evolution of Mesoamerican and Southwestern US polities. Although this work was criticized at the time, it was further developed and employed by many scholars.\n\nFeinman also helped to develop dual processual theory, which has had a broad impact in American archaeology.\n\nRecent studies, underpinned by a career of regional survey and residential excavation, has offered new perspectives on prehispanic Mesoamerican economies, in which most production for exchange was undertaken in domestic contexts and marketplace exchanges had a central importance. This model is markedly different than prior perspectives that presumed centralized/administered production and exchange. In addition to drawing on results from survey and excavation, Feinman, in conjunction with Linda Nicholas, Mark Golitko and colleagues from Mexico and the United States, has begun an effort to greatly increase the quantity of sourced obsidian from documented prehispanic contexts in the Valley of Oaxaca.By combining these newly sourced sets of obsidian data from Oaxaca with a larger archive of sourced obsidian from across prehispanic Mesoamerica, Feinman and colleagues have documented significant shifts in networks of exchange over time, while casting further doubt on extant models that presume the prevalence of state-controlled economies and redistribution.\n\nFeinman is the co-curator of two permanent exhibitions at the Field Museum, the Ancient Americas and the Cyrus Tang Hall of China). He also served as curator for a number of temporary exhibitions, including Chocolate, The Aztec World, China's First Emperor and His Terracotta Warriors, and Mexican Nativity Scenes.\n\nWith T. Douglas Price, Feinman is the author of the world prehistory text, Images of the Past, which presently is in its 7th edition.\n\n"}
{"id": "9753139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9753139", "title": "Gesta Regum Anglorum", "text": "Gesta Regum Anglorum\n\nThe Gesta Regum Anglorum (Latin for \"Deeds of the Kings of the English\"), originally titled (\"On the Deeds of the Kings of the English\") and also anglicized as or , is an early-12th-century history of the kings of England by William of Malmesbury. It is a companion work of his \"Gesta Pontificum Anglorum\" (\"Deeds of the English Bishops\") and was followed by his \"Historia Novella\", which continued its account for several more years.\n\n"}
{"id": "46525858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46525858", "title": "Home and Colonial Library", "text": "Home and Colonial Library\n\nThe Home and Colonial Library was a series of works published in London from 1843 to 1849, comprising 49 titles, by John Murray III. He founded it, as a series of cheap reprints, original works and translations, slanted towards travel literature in the broad sense, in the year of death of his father, John Murray II.\n\nThis listing of 44 titles of the \"Library\", two of those coming in 2 vols., was published in 1876.\n\nOriginally there were some extra titles, or works later substituted. Two books were often printed in one volume, and 49 works in all were in 37 volumes. Washington Irving's \"Bracebridge Hall\", \"Traveller's Tales\" and \"Oliver Goldsmith\" were included. There were also the \"Memoirs\" of Sir Fowell Buxton. Melville's works \"Typee\" and \"Omoo\" were at first issued separately. Murray required that \"Typee\" appear as \"Four Months among the Natives of the Marquesas\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31058096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31058096", "title": "House I", "text": "House I\n\nHouse I is a sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein.\n\nIt is located at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.\n\nThe house uses optical illusion to play with perspective. To appreciate the full effect, walk at a steady rate along the arc of the sidewalk that runs in front of and nearly perpendicular to the sculpture, with your head turned to one side, facing the sculpture. The house will appear to be spinning in space, like the \"Wizard of Oz\" house. \n\nIt was constructed of painted aluminum, modeled in 1996 and constructed in 1999.\n\nAmong his last works, it was a part of the \"House\" series. \"House II\" was shown at the Venice Biennale in 1997, and \"House III\" was shown at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "301775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301775", "title": "Hulk Hogan", "text": "Hulk Hogan\n\nTerry Gene Bollea (, born August 11, 1953), better known by his ring name as Hulk Hogan, is an American retired professional wrestler, actor, television personality, entrepreneur and musician.\n\nHogan is regarded by many as the greatest professional wrestler of all time. According to IGN, he is \"the most recognized wrestling star worldwide and the most popular wrestler of the 1980s\". Hogan enjoyed considerable mainstream popularity between 1984 and 1993 as a face in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE), which continued for the remainder of the 1990s in World Championship Wrestling (WCW), where he turned heel in 1996 and performed as the villainous New World Order (nWo) leader \"Hollywood\" Hulk Hogan.\n\nA regular pay-per-view main eventer and box office draw in both organizations, Hogan headlined the premier annual events of the WWF and WCW, WrestleMania a record eight times (also being the only one who closed five WrestleMania events in a row) and Starrcade three times; against Sting, he closed the most profitable WCW pay-per-view ever at the 1997 edition of Starrcade. Aside from those promotions, he has notably performed for the American Wrestling Association (AWA), New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). He is a twelve-time world champion: a six-time WWF World Heavyweight Champion/WWF Champion (with his last reign being as Undisputed WWF/WWE Champion) and a six-time WCW World Heavyweight Champion. Hogan's first WCW World Heavyweight Championship reign is the longest in history, while his first WWF Championship reign is the third-longest ever (and the longest of the 1980s). He was the first wrestler to win consecutive Royal Rumbles, in 1990 and 1991, and was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2005, by Sylvester Stallone.\n\nDuring and after wrestling, Hogan had an extensive acting career, beginning with his 1982 antagonist role in \"Rocky III\". He has starred in several movies (including \"No Holds Barred\", \"Suburban Commando\" and \"Mr. Nanny\") and three television shows (\"Thunder in Paradise\", \"Hogan Knows Best\" and \"China, IL\"), as well as in Right Guard commercials and the video game, \"Hulk Hogan's Main Event\". He was also the frontman for The Wrestling Boot Band, whose sole record, \"Hulk Rules\", reached #12 on the \"Billboard\" Top Kid Audio chart in 1995.\n\nTerry Eugene Bollea was born in Augusta, Georgia, on August 11, 1953, the son of construction foreman Pietro \"Peter\" Bollea (December 6, 1913 – December 18, 2001) and homemaker and dance teacher Ruth V. (\"née\" Moody; 1922 – January 1, 2011) Bollea. He is of French, Italian, Panamanian, and Scottish descent. When he was one and a half years old, his family moved to Port Tampa, Florida. As a boy, he was a pitcher in Little League Baseball. He attracted scouts from the New York Yankees and the Cincinnati Reds, but an injury ended his baseball career. He began watching professional wrestling at 16 years old. While in high school, he revered Dusty Rhodes, and he regularly attended cards at the Tampa Sportatorium. It was at one of those wrestling cards where he first turned his attention towards Superstar Billy Graham and looked to him for inspiration; since he first saw Graham on TV, Hogan wanted to match his \"inhuman\" look.\n\nHogan was also a musician, spending a decade playing fretless bass guitar in several Florida-based rock bands. He went on to study at Hillsborough Community College and the University of South Florida. After music gigs began to get in the way of his time in college, Hogan decided to drop out of the University of South Florida before receiving a degree. Eventually, Hogan and two local musicians formed a band called Ruckus in 1976. The band soon became popular in the Tampa Bay region. During his spare time, Hogan worked out at Hector's Gym in the Tampa Bay area, where he began lifting. Many of the wrestlers who were competing in the Florida region visited the bars where Ruckus was performing. Among those attending his performances were Jack and Gerald Brisco, two brothers who wrestled together as a tag team in the Florida region.\n\nImpressed by Hogan's physical stature, the Brisco brothers asked Hiro Matsudathe man who trained wrestlers working for Championship Wrestling from Florida (CWF)to make him a potential trainee. In 1976, the two brothers asked Hogan to try wrestling. Hogan eventually agreed. At first, however, Mike Graham, the son of CWF promoter Eddie Graham, refused to put Hogan in the ring; according to Hogan, he met Graham while in high school and the two did not get along. However, after Hogan quit Ruckus and started telling people in town that he was going to be a wrestler, Graham finally agreed to accept the Brisco Brothers' request.\n\nIn mid-1977, after training for more than a year with Matsuda, the Brisco brothers dropped by Matsuda's gym to see Hogan. During this visit, Jack Brisco handed Hogan a pair of wrestling boots and informed him that he was scheduled to wrestle his first match the following week. In his professional wrestling debut, Eddie Graham booked him against Brian Blair in Fort Myers, Florida on August 10, 1977 in CWF. A short time later, Bollea donned a mask and assumed the persona of \"The Super Destroyer\", a hooded character first played by Don Jardine and subsequently used by other wrestlers.\n\nHogan eventually could no longer work with Hiro Matsuda, whom he felt was an overbearing trainer, and left CWF. After declining an offer to wrestle for the Kansas City circuit, Hogan took a hiatus from wrestling and managed The Anchor club, a private club in Cocoa Beach, Florida, for a man named Whitey Bridges. Eventually, Whitey and Hogan became close friends, and decided to open a gym together; the gym became known as Whitey and Terry's Olympic gym.\n\nSoon after, Hogan's friend Ed Leslie (later known as Brutus Beefcake) came to Cocoa Beach to help Hogan and Bridges manage both the Anchor Club and the Whitey and Terry's Olympic Gym. On his spare time, he and Leslie worked out in the gym together, and eventually, Beefcake developed a muscular physique; Hogan was impressed by Beefcake's physical stature and became convinced that the two of them should wrestle together as tag team partners. Depressed and yearning to return to wrestling, Hogan called Superstar Billy Graham in 1978 with hopes that Graham could find him a job wrestling outside of Florida; Graham agreed and Hogan soon joined Louie Tillet's Alabama territory. Hogan also convinced Leslie, who had yet to become a wrestler, to come with him and promised to teach him everything he knew about the sport.\n\nIn Alabama, Bollea and Leslie wrestled as Terry and Ed Boulder, known as The Boulder Brothers. These early matches as a tag team with the surname Boulder being used by both men prompted a rumor among wrestling fans unaware of the inner workings of the sport that Hogan and Leslie were brothers, as few people actually knew their real names outside of immediate friends, family, and the various promoters the two worked for. After wrestling a show for Continental Wrestling Association (CWA) in Memphis, Jerry Jarrett, the promoter for the CWA, approached Hogan and Leslie and offered them a job in his promotion for $800 a week; this was far more than the $175 a week they would make working for Tillet. Hogan and Leslie accepted this offer and left Tillet's territory.\n\nDuring his time in Memphis, Hogan appeared on a local talk show, where he sat beside Lou Ferrigno, star of the television series \"The Incredible Hulk\". The host commented on how Hogan, who stood 6 ft 7 in (201 cm) and weighed 295 pounds with 24-inch biceps, actually dwarfed \"The Hulk\". Watching the show backstage, Mary Jarrett noticed that Hogan was actually bigger than Ferrigno, who was well known at the time for having large muscles. As a result, Bollea began performing as Terry \"The Hulk\" Boulder and sometimes wrestled as Sterling Golden.\n\nOn December 1, 1979, Bollea won his first professional wrestling championship, the NWA Southeastern Heavyweight Championship (Northern Division), recognized in Alabama and Tennessee, when he defeated Bob Roop in Knoxville, Tennessee. Bollea would drop the title in January 1980 to Bob Armstrong. Bollea briefly wrestled in the Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW) territory from September thru December 1979 as Sterling Golden.\n\nLater that year, former NWA World Heavyweight Champion Terry Funk introduced Bollea to the company owner/promoter Vincent J. McMahon, who was impressed with his charisma and physical stature. McMahon, who wanted to use an Irish name, gave Bollea the last name Hogan, and also wanted him to dye his hair red. Hogan claims his hair was already beginning to fall out by that time, and he refused to dye it, simply replying, \"I'll be a blond Irish\". Hogan wrestled his first match in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) on November 17 defeating Harry Valdez on \"Championship Wrestling\". He made his first appearance at Madison Square Garden, defeating Ted DiBiase after a bearhug. After the match, Hogan thanked DiBiase for putting him over and told him that he \"owed him one\", a favor that he would end up repaying during DiBiase's second run with the company in the late 1980s and early 1990s as \"The Million Dollar Man\". McMahon gave Hogan former tag team champion Tony Altomare as chaperone and guide. At this time, Hogan wrestled Bob Backlund for the WWF Heavyweight Championship, and he started his first big feud with André the Giant, which culminated in a match with André at Shea Stadium in August 1980. During his initial run as a villain in the WWF, Hogan was paired with \"Classy\" Freddie Blassie, a wrestler-turned-manager.\n\nIn 1980, Hogan began appearing in New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) where Japanese wrestling fans nicknamed him \"Ichiban\" (which translates to \"Number One\"). Hogan first appeared on May 13, 1980, while he was still with the WWF. He occasionally toured the country over the next few years, facing a wide variety of opponents ranging from Tatsumi Fujinami to Abdullah the Butcher. When competing in Japan, Hogan used a vastly different repertoire of wrestling moves, relying on more technical, traditional wrestling holds and maneuvers as opposed to the power-based, brawling style American fans became accustomed to seeing from him. In addition, Hogan used the \"Axe Bomber\", a crooked arm lariat, as his finisher in Japan instead of the running leg drop that has been his standard finisher in America. Hogan still made appearances for the WWF, even unsuccessfully challenging Pedro Morales for the Intercontinental Championship on March 26, 1981. On June 2, 1983, Hogan became the first International Wrestling Grand Prix (IWGP) tournament winner (although he held the IWGP Heavyweight Championship belt, this was not the beginning of the actual championship), defeating Antonio Inoki by knockout in the finals of a ten-man tournament. Hogan and Inoki also worked as partners in Japan, winning the MSG Tag League tournament two years in a row: in 1982 and 1983. In 1984, Hogan returned to NJPW to wrestle Inoki in the finals of the IWGP League, in which he lost the title belt by countout, thanks to interference from Riki Choshu. Hogan also defended his WWF World Heavyweight Championship againstSeiji Sakaguchi and Fujinami, among others, until ending his tour in Nagoya on June 13 with a count-out to Inoki.\n\nAfter filming his scene for \"Rocky III\" against the elder McMahon's wishes, Hogan made his debut in the American Wrestling Association (AWA), owned by Verne Gagne. Hogan started his AWA run as a villain, taking on \"Luscious\" Johnny Valiant as his manager. This did not last for long as the AWA fans fell in love with Hogan's presence and Hogan became the top fan favorite of the AWA, battling the Heenan Family and Nick Bockwinkel.\n\nHogan's turn as a fan favorite came at the end of July 1981, when during a television taping that aired in August, Jerry Blackwell, after suffering a pinfall loss to Brad Rheingans, began beating down Rheingans and easily fighting off anyone who tried to run in for the save; however, Hogan ran in, got the upper hand and ran Blackwell from the ring. Hogan was eventually victorious in his feud with Blackwell and by the end of 1981, gained his first title matches against Bockwinkel.\n\nAfter purchasing the company from his father in 1982, Vincent K. McMahon had plans to expand the territory into a nationwide promotion, and he handpicked Hogan to be the company's showpiece attraction due to his charisma and name recognition. Hogan made his return at a television taping in St. Louis, Missouri on December 27, 1983 defeating Bill Dixon.\n\nOn the January 7, 1984, episode of \"Championship Wrestling\", Hogan confirmed his fan favorite status for the WWF fans by saving Bob Backlund from a three-way assault by The Wild Samoans. Hogan's turn was explained simply by Backlund: \"He's changed his ways. He's a great man. He's told me he's not gonna have Blassie around\". The storyline shortcut was necessary because less than three weeks later on January 23, Hogan won his first WWF World Heavyweight Championship, pinning The Iron Sheik (who had Blassie in his corner) in Madison Square Garden. The storyline accompanying the victory was that Hogan was a \"last minute\" replacement for the Sheik's original opponent Bob Backlund, and became the champion by way of being the first man to escape the camel clutch (the Iron Sheik's finishing move). The backstage story was that then champion Bob Backlund had refused to let Hogan win the title from him, demanding that any wrestler to whom he lost the title have a legitimate wrestling background. As a consequence, The Iron Sheik won the title from Backlund first and then dropped it to Hogan. However, this was mostly made to not make two fan favorites face each other.\nImmediately after the title win, commentator Gorilla Monsoon proclaimed: \"Hulkamania is here!\". Hogan frequently referred to his fans as \"Hulkamaniacs\" in his interviews and introduced his three \"demandments\": training, saying prayers, and eating vitamins. Eventually, a fourth demandment (believing in oneself) was added during his feud with Earthquake in 1990. Hogan's ring gear developed a characteristic yellow-and-red color scheme; his ring entrances involved him ritualistically ripping his shirt off his body, flexing, and listening for audience cheers in an exaggerated manner. The majority of Hogan's matches during this time involved him wrestling heels who had been booked as unstoppable monsters, using a format which became near-routine: Hogan would deliver steady offense, but eventually lose momentum, seemingly nearing defeat. After being hit with his opponent's finishing move, he would then experience a sudden second wind, fighting back while \"feeding\" off the energy of the audience, becoming impervious to attack a process described as \"Hulking up\". His signature maneuvers pointing at the opponent (which would later be accompanied by a loud \"you!\" from the audience), shaking his finger to scold him, three punches, an Irish whip, the big boot and running leg drop – would follow and ensure him a victory. That finishing sequence would occasionally change depending on the storyline and opponent; for instance, with \"giant\" wrestlers, the sequence might involve a body slam.\n\nIn 1984, similarities between Hogan's character and that of The Incredible Hulk led to an quitclaim deal between Titan Sports, Marvel Comics and himself wherein Marvel obtained the trademarks \"Hulk Hogan\", \"Hulkster\" and \"Hulkamania\" for 20 years, and Titan agreed to no longer refer to him as \"incredible\" nor simply \"Hulk\" or ever dress him in purple or green. Marvel also subsequently received .9% of reportable gross merchandise revenue associated with Hogan, $100 for each of his matches and 10% of Titan's portion of his other earnings under this name (or 10% of the earnings, if Titan held no interest). In 1988's \"Marvel Comics Presents #45\", Hogan was tossed through an arena roof by The Incredible Hulk, because he \"picked the wrong name.\"\n\nOver the next year, Hogan became the face of professional wrestling as McMahon pushed the WWF into a pop culture enterprise with The Rock 'n' Wrestling Connection on MTV, drawing record houses, pay-per-view buyrates, and television ratings in the process. The centerpiece attraction for the first WrestleMania on March 31, 1985, Hogan teamed with legit friend, TV and movie star Mr. T to defeat his archrival \"Rowdy\" Roddy Piper and \"Mr Wonderful\" Paul Orndorff when \"Cowboy\" Bob Orton, who had been in the corner of Piper and Orndorff, accidentally caused his team's defeat by knocking out Orndorff after he jumped from the top turnbuckle and hit him in the back of the head with his arm cast in a shot meant for Hogan. On the first episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", Hogan successfully defended the WWF World Heavyweight Championship against Orton in a match that Hogan won by disqualification.\n\nHogan was named the most requested celebrity of the 1980s for the Make-a-Wish Foundation children's charity. He was featured on the covers of \"Sports Illustrated\" (the first and , only professional wrestler to do so), \"TV Guide\", and \"People\" magazines, while also appearing on \"The Tonight Show\" and having his own CBS Saturday morning cartoon titled \"Hulk Hogan's Rock 'n' Wrestling\". Hogan, as the premier WWF icon, headlined seven of the first eight WrestleMania events. He also co-hosted \"Saturday Night Live\" on March 30, 1985 during this lucrative run. AT&T reported that the 900 number information line he ran while with the WWF was the single biggest 900 number from 1991 to 1993. Hogan continued to run a 900 number after joining World Championship Wrestling (WCW).\n\nOn the October 5, 1985 episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", he successfully defended the title against Nikolai Volkoff in a flag match. He met long-time rival Roddy Piper in a WWF title match at the Wrestling Classic pay-per-view (PPV) event. Hogan retained the title by disqualification after Bob Orton interfered and hit Hogan with his cast. Hogan had many challengers in the way as the new year began. Throughout 1986, Hogan made successful title defenses against challengers such as Terry Funk, Don Muraco, King Kong Bundy (in a steel cage match at WrestleMania 2), Paul Orndorff, and Hercules Hernandez.\n\nIn the fall of 1986, Hogan occasionally wrestled in tag team matches with The Machines as Hulk Machine under a mask copied from NJPW's gimmick \"Super Strong Machine\". At WrestleMania III in 1987, Hogan was booked to defend the title against André the Giant, who had been the sport's premier star and was pushed as undefeated for the previous fifteen years. A new storyline was introduced in early 1987; Hogan was presented a trophy for being the WWF World Heavyweight Champion for three consecutive years. André the Giant, who was Hogan's good friend, came out to congratulate him. Shortly afterward, André was presented a slightly smaller trophy for being \"undefeated in the WWF for 15 years\". Hogan came out to congratulate André, who walked out in the midst of Hogan's speech. Then, on an edition of \"Piper's Pit\", Hogan was confronted by Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan, who announced that André was his new protégé, and Andre challenged Hogan to a title match at WrestleMania III, where Hogan successfully defended the WWF World Heavyweight Championship against André the Giant. During the match, Hogan hit a body slam on the 520-pound André (which was dubbed \"the bodyslam heard around the world\") and won the match after a leg drop.\n\nHogan remained WWF World Heavyweight Champion for four years (1,474 days). In front of 33 million viewers, however, Hogan finally lost the title to André on the February 5 episode of \"The Main Event\" after a convoluted scam involving \"The Million Dollar Man\" Ted DiBiase and Earl Hebner (who assumed the place of his twin brother Dave Hebner, the match's appointed referee). After André delivered a belly to belly suplex on Hogan, Hebner counted the pin while Hogan's left shoulder was clearly off the mat. After the match, André handed the title over to DiBiase to complete their business deal. As a result, the WWF World Heavyweight Championship was vacated for the first time in its 25-year history because then WWF President Jack Tunney decreed the championship could not be sold from one wrestler to another. At WrestleMania IV, Hogan participated in a tournament for the vacant WWF World Heavyweight Championship to regain it; he and André were given a bye into quarter-finals, but their match resulted in a double disqualification. Later that night in the main event, Hogan came to ringside to stop André interfering which helped \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage defeat Ted DiBiase to win the title.\n\nTogether, Hogan, Savage, and manager Miss Elizabeth formed a partnership known as The Mega Powers. After Savage became WWF World Heavyweight Champion at WrestleMania IV, they feuded with The Mega Bucks (André the Giant and Ted DiBiase) and defeated them at the main event of the first SummerSlam. They then went on to feud with Slick's Twin Towers: Akeem and Big Boss Man.\n\nIn mid-1988, Hogan wrestled at house shows in singles competition with his \"War Bonnet\", a red and yellow gladiator helmet with a fist-shaped crest. This was notably used to give Bad News Brown his first WWF loss at a Madison Square Garden house show before it was discarded altogether. The War Bonnet gimmick was revisited in the WWE's online comedy series \"Are You Serious?\" in 2012.\n\nThe Mega Powers began to implode due to Savage's burgeoning jealousy of Hogan and his paranoid suspicions that Hogan and Elizabeth were more than friends. At the Royal Rumble in 1989, Hogan eliminated Savage from the Royal Rumble match while eliminating Bad News Brown, which caused tension, only to be eliminated by The Twin Towers himself. In early 1989, the duo broke up while wrestling The Twin Towers on the February 3 episode of \"The Main Event\", when Savage accidentally collided with Miss Elizabeth during the match, and Hogan took her backstage to receive medical attention, temporarily abandoning Savage, who slapped Hogan and left the ring, where Hogan eventually won the match by himself. After the match, Savage attacked Hogan backstage, which started a feud between the two. Their feud culminated in Hogan beating Savage for his second WWF World Heavyweight Championship at WrestleMania V.\n\nHogan's second run in 1989 lasted a year, during which he defended the title in two matches against Savage in April that he lost both times by countout, before defeating The Big Boss Man in a steel cage match on the April 25 episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", which was aired on May 27. In May on \"WWF on NESN\", Hogan retained the title by losing once again by countout against Savage. This was also the last time the WWF World Heavyweight Championship was referred to as such during a televised title defense, as Hogan's next successful title defense against The Honky Tonk Man on the July 18 episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\" saw the title being renamed and referred simply as the WWF Championship. Also during Hogan's second reign as champion, he starred in the movie \"No Holds Barred\", which was the inspiration of a feud with Hogan's co-star Tom Lister, Jr., who appeared at wrestling events as his movie character, Zeus (an \"unstoppable monster\" who was \"jealous\" over Hogan's higher billing and wanted revenge). However, Hogan was easily able to defeat Zeus in a series of matches across the country during late 1989, beginning with a tag team match at SummerSlam, in which Hogan and Brutus Beefcake topped Zeus and Savage. Hogan and Zeus would later meet at the Survivor Series, where the \"Hulkamaniacs\" faced the \"Million Dollar Team\"; in the early part of the match, Hogan put Zeus over by hitting him with everything to no effect before Zeus then dominated Hogan until Zeus was disqualified by referee Dave Hebner. Hogan and Beefcake then defeated Zeus and Savage in a rematch at the No Holds Barred pay-per-view to end the feud. Hogan also had defeated Savage to retain the WWF Championship in their official WrestleMania rematch on October 10, at United Kingdom-only pay-per-view First WWF UK Event at London Arena. During his second reign as the WWF Champion, Hogan won the 1990 Royal Rumble match, before dropping the title to then Intercontinental Champion The Ultimate Warrior in a title versus title match at WrestleMania VI on April 1, 1990.\n\nHogan soon became embroiled in a heated feud with the 468-pound Earthquake, who had crushed Hogan's ribs in a sneak attack on \"The Brother Love Show\" in May 1990. On television, announcers explained that Hogan's injuries and his WrestleMania VI loss to Warrior both took such a huge toll on his fighting spirit that he wanted to retire. Viewers were asked to write letters to Hogan and send postcards asking for his return (they got a postcard-sized picture in return, autographed by Hogan, as a \"thank you\"). Hogan returned by SummerSlam, and he for several months dominated Earthquake in a series of matches across the country. His defeat of this overwhelmingly large foe caused Hogan to add a fourth demandment – believing in yourself, and he also became known as \"The Immortal\" Hulk Hogan. Hogan became the first wrestler to win two Royal Rumble matches in a row, as he won the 1991 Royal Rumble match. At WrestleMania VII, Hogan stood up for the United States against Sgt. Slaughter, defeating him for his third WWF Championship, and then defeating him again in the rematch at United Kingdom-only pay-per-view UK Rampage at London Arena. In the fall of 1991, Hogan was challenged by Ric Flair, the former NWA World Heavyweight Champion who recently arrived in the WWF. The feud remained unresolved, as Hogan lost the WWF Championship to The Undertaker at Survivor Series, and he won it back at This Tuesday in Texas six days later. Flair had interfered in both matches and due to the resulting controversy, the title was again declared vacant. The WWF Championship was decided at the 1992 Royal Rumble in the Royal Rumble match, but Hogan failed to regain the championship as he was eliminated by friend Sid Justice and in turn caused Sid to be eliminated, leaving Flair the winner and new champion. Hogan and Sid patched things up and teamed together on the February 8 episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\" against Flair and Undertaker, but during the match Sid abandoned Hogan, starting their feud. At WrestleMania VIII, Hogan defeated Sid via disqualification due to interference by Sid's manager Harvey Wippleman. Hogan was then attacked by Papa Shango and was saved by the returning Ultimate Warrior.\n\nAt this time, news sources began to allege that Dr. George Zahorian, a doctor for the Pennsylvania State Athletic Commission, had been selling steroids illegally to wrestlers in general and Hogan in particular. Hogan appeared on an episode of \"The Arsenio Hall Show\" to deny the allegations. Due to intense public scrutiny, Hogan took a leave of absence from the company. Hogan returned to the WWF in February 1993, helping out his friend Brutus Beefcake in his feud with Money Inc. (Irwin R. Schyster and \"The Million Dollar Man\" Ted DiBiase), and officially renaming themselves The Mega-Maniacs, taking on Money Inc.'s former manager \"The Mouth of the South\" Jimmy Hart (a long time friend of Hogan's outside of wrestling) as their manager in what was the first time WWF audiences had seen Hart as a fan favorite. At WrestleMania IX, Hogan and Beefcake took on Money Inc. for the WWF Tag Team Championship. Hogan went into the match sporting a cut above a black eye. The WWF used Hogan's injury in a storyline that had DiBiase allegedly paying a group of thugs in a failed attempt to take Hogan out before WrestleMania. Later that night, Hogan won his fifth WWF Championship by pinning Yokozuna only moments after Yokozuna had defeated Bret Hart.\n\nAt the first annual King of the Ring pay-per-view on June 13, Hogan defended the championship against the former champion Yokozuna in his first title defense since defeating him at WrestleMania IX. Yokozuna kicked out of Hogan's signature leg drop and scored the pinfall win after Hogan was blinded by a fireball shot by a \"Japanese photographer\" (actually a disguised Harvey Wippleman). The victorious Yokozuna proceeded to give Hogan a \"Banzai Drop\". This was Hogan's last WWF pay-per-view appearance until 2002, as both he and Jimmy Hart were preparing to leave the promotion. Hogan continued his feud on the international house show circuit with Yokozuna until August 1993. After that, Hogan sat out the rest of his contract which expired later that year.\n\nOn May 3, 1993, Hogan returned to NJPW as WWF Champion and defeated IWGP Heavyweight Champion The Great Muta in a dream match at Wrestling Dontaku. Hogan wrestled against Muta again, this time under his real name (Keiji Mutoh), on September 26, 1993. Hogan also wrestled The Hell Raisers with Muta and Masahiro Chono as his tag team partners. His last match in Japan was on January 4, 1994 at Battlefield, when he defeated Tatsumi Fujinami.\n\nIn June 1994, Hogan signed with Ted Turner's World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in a ceremony that was held at Disney's MGM Studios. He began appearing on television the next month, when he won the WCW World Heavyweight Championship in his debut match, defeating Ric Flair in a \"dream match\" at Bash at the Beach. Hogan continued his feud with Flair (who defeated him by countout on the \"Clash of the Champions XXVIII\", thus Hogain retained the title), which culminated in a steel cage match (with Flair's career on the line and Mr. T as the special guest referee) that Hogan won. After Hogan headlined WCW's premier annual event Starrcade (Starrcade: Triple Threat) in December 1994 by defeating The Butcher for the title, his next feud was against Vader, who challenged him for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship at SuperBrawl V, where Hogan won by disqualification after the returning Flair's interference. Hogan then defeated Vader (who was managed part-time by Flair) in a non-title leather strap match at Uncensored. Because of the controversial ending caused once again by Flair at Uncensored, Hogan's feud with Vader culminated in a steel cage match for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship at Bash at the Beach, where Hogan won by escpaing the cage. After successfully retaining the WCW World Heavyweight Championship against Big Bubba Rogers and Lex Luger in two separate matches on \"Nitro\" in September 1995. On WCW Nitro (October 9, 1995 nitro 06 )was Hogan's first appearance in the all black . Hogan feuded with The Dungeon of Doom, which led to a WarGames match at Fall Brawl where Hogan's team (Lex Luger, Randy Savage, and Sting) won. Hogan's fifteen-month title reign (which is the longest WCW World Heavyweight Championship reign in the title history at 469 days) ended when he dropped the title to The Giant at Halloween Havoc via disqualification.\n\nFollowing the controversial loss (which was due to a \"contract clause\"), the WCW World Heavyweight Championship became vacant and a new champion to be crowned in a 60-man three-ring battle royal at World War III, where The Giant cost Hogan the title. This led to a steel cage match between Hogan and The Giant at SuperBrawl VI, where Hogan won to end their feud. In early 1996, Hogan reformed The Mega Powers with Randy Savage to feud with The Alliance to End Hulkamania, which culminated at Uncensored in a Doomsday Cage match that Hogan and Savage won. After coming out victorious from his feuds, Hogan began to only appear occasionally on WCW programming.\n\nAt Bash at the Beach in 1996, during a six-man tag team match pitting The Outsiders (Kevin Nash and Scott Hall) against WCW loyalists, Hogan interfered on behalf of Nash and Hall, attacking Randy Savage, thereby becoming a villainous character for the first time in nearly fifteen years. After the match, Hogan delivered a promo, accosting the fans and WCW for under-appreciating his talent and drawing power, and announcing the formation of the New World Order (nWo). The new stable gained prominence in the following weeks and months. Hogan grew a beard alongside his famous mustache and dyed it black, traded his red and yellow garb in for black and white clothing, often detailed with lightning bolts, and renamed himself \"Hollywood\" Hulk Hogan (often shortened to Hollywood Hogan). Hogan won his second WCW World Heavyweight Championship at Hog Wild defeating The Giant for the title. He spray painted \"nWo\" across the title belt, scribbled across the nameplate, and referred to the title as the \"nWo title\". Hogan then started a feud with Lex Luger after Luger and The Giant defeated Hogan and Dennis Rodman in a tag team match at Bash at the Beach.\n\nOn the August 4, 1997, episode of \"Nitro\", Hogan lost the title to Luger by submission. Five days later at Road Wild, Hogan defeated Luger to regain the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. Hogan then lost the title to Sting in a match at Starrcade. In the match, WCW's newly contracted Bret Hart accused referee Nick Patrick of fast-counting a victory for Hogan and had the match restarted – with himself as referee. Sting later won by submission. After a rematch the following night on \"Nitro\", where Sting controversially retained the title, the WCW World Heavyweight Championship became vacant. Sting went on to win the vacant title against Hogan at SuperBrawl VIII, and Hogan then developed a rivalry with former friend (and recent nWo recruit) Randy Savage, who had just cost Hogan the title match at SuperBrawl by hitting him with a spray can. The feud culminated in a steel cage match at Uncensored, which ended in a no contest. Savage took the WCW World Heavyweight Championship from Sting at Spring Stampede, while Hogan teamed with Kevin Nash to take on Roddy Piper and The Giant in the first-ever bat match.\n\nHogan betrayed Nash by hitting him with the bat and then challenged Savage the following night on \"Nitro\" for the world title. In the no disqualification match for Savage's newly won title, Nash entered the ring and hit a powerbomb on Hogan as retribution for the attack the previous night, but Bret Hart interfered moments later and jumped in to attack Savage and preserve the victory for Hogan, who won his fourth WCW World Heavyweight Championship. However, Nash's attack on him signified a split of the nWo into two separate factions – Hogan's became nWo Hollywood and Nash's became nWo Wolfpac that feuded with each other for the remainder of the year. Hogan defended the title until July of that year, when WCW booked him in a match against newcomer and then WCW United States Heavyweight Champion Goldberg, who had yet to lose a match in the company. Late in the match, Hogan was distracted by Karl Malone, and Goldberg pinned Hogan to win the WCW World Heavyweight Championship.\nHogan spent the rest of 1998 wrestling celebrity matches: his second tag team match with Dennis Rodman pitted them against Diamond Dallas Page and Karl Malone at Bash at the Beach, and at Road Wild he and Eric Bischoff lost to Page and Jay Leno thanks to interference from Kevin Eubanks. Hogan also had a critically panned rematch with The Warrior at Halloween Havoc, where his nephew Horace aided his victory.\n\nOn the Thanksgiving episode of \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", Hogan officially announced his retirement from professional wrestling, as well as his candidacy for President of the United States. Campaign footage aired on \"Nitro\" of Hogan and Bischoff holding a press conference, making it appear legitimate. In the long run, however, both announcements were false and merely done as a publicity stunt attempting to draw some of the hype of Jesse Ventura's Minnesota gubernatorial win back to him. After some time off from WCW, Hogan returned on the January 4, 1999, episode of \"Nitro\" to challenge Kevin Nash for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship which Hogan won for the fifth time, but many people found the title change to be \"scandalous\". As a result, the warring factions of the nWo reunited into one group, which began feuding with Goldberg and The Four Horsemen.\n\nHogan lost the WCW World Heavyweight Championship to Ric Flair at Uncensored in a steel cage First Blood match. Later, Hogan was severely injured in a Texas tornado match for the world title featuring him, Diamond Dallas Page, Flair, and Sting at Spring Stampede On the July 12 episode of \"Nitro\", Hogan made his return as a fan favorite for the first time in three years and accepted an open challenge from Savage, who had gained the world title at Bash at the Beach the night before in a tag team match by pinning Kevin Nash. Thanks to interference from Nash, Hogan defeated Savage to win his sixth and final WCW World Heavyweight Championship. However, Nash turned on him the next week, and the two began a feud that lasted until Road Wild.\n\nOn August 9, 1999, Hogan started the night dressed in the typical black and white, but after a backstage scene with his son came out dressed in the traditional red and yellow for his main event six-man tag team match. Hogan then defeated Nash in a retirement match at Road Wild to retain the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. Injuries and frustrations were mounting up however, and he was absent from television from October 1999 to February 2000. In his book \"Hollywood Hulk Hogan\", Bollea said that he was asked to take time off by newly hired head of creative booking Vince Russo and was not told when he would be brought back at the time. Despite some reservations, he agreed to do so. On October 24 at Halloween Havoc, Hogan was to face Sting for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. However, Hogan came to the ring in street clothes, lay down for the pin, and left the ring.\nSoon after his return in February 2000, at Bash at the Beach on July 9, Hogan was involved in a controversial work with Vince Russo. Hogan was scheduled to challenge Jeff Jarrett for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. Before the match, there was a backstage dispute between Hogan and Russo; Hogan wanted to take the title, but Russo was going to have Jarrett win, and lose it to Booker T. Russo told Hogan that he was going to have Jarrett lie down for him, simulating a real conflict, although Jarrett was not told it was a work. When the bell rang, Jarrett lay down in the middle of the ring while Russo threw the WCW World Heavyweight Championship belt in the ring and yelled at Hogan from ringside to pin Jarrett. A visibly confused Hogan complied with a foot on Jarrett's chest after getting on the microphone and telling Russo, \"Is this your idea, Russo? That's why this company is in the damn shape it's in, because of bullshit like this!\" After winning and being announced as the new WCW World Heavyweight Champion, Hogan immediately took the WCW title belt. Moments later, Russo returned to the ring, angrily proclaiming, \"I can guarantee you that this is the last time you will ever see that piece of shit in a WCW stadium!\" This is also when the public discovered, through Russo, the \"creative control\" clause that Hogan had, which meant that Hogan was able to control what would happen with his own character and be able to do so without anyone else being able to tell him no. In his Bash at the Beach shoot promo, Russo said that he was arguing with Hogan all day prior to the event in the back because he wanted to use the clause in the Jarrett match, saying, \"That means that, in the middle of this ring, when [Hogan] knew it was bullshit, he beats Jeff Jarrett!\". Since Hogan refused to job to Jarrett, a new WCW World Heavyweight Championship was created, setting the stage for a title match between Booker T and Jarrett later that night.\n\nAs a result, Hogan filed a defamation of character lawsuit against Russo soon after, which was eventually dismissed in 2002. Russo claims the whole thing was a work, and Hogan claims that Russo made it a shoot. Eric Bischoff agreed with Hogan's side of the story when he wrote that Hogan winning and leaving with the belt was a work (devised by Bischoff rather than Russo), and that he and Hogan celebrated after the event over the success of the angle, but that Russo coming out to fire Hogan was an unplanned shoot which led to the lawsuit filed by Hogan. It was the last time he was seen in WCW.\n\nIn the months following the eventual demise of WCW in March 2001, Hogan underwent surgery on his knees in order for him to wrestle again. As a test, Hogan worked a match in Orlando, Florida for the Xcitement Wrestling Federation (XWF) promotion run by his longtime handler Jimmy Hart. Hogan defeated Curt Hennig in this match and felt healthy enough to accept an offer to return to the WWF in February 2002.\n\nAt No Way Out in February 2002, Hogan returned to the WWF. Returning as leader of the original nWo with Scott Hall and Kevin Nash, the three got into a confrontation with The Rock and cost Stone Cold Steve Austin a chance at becoming the Undisputed WWF Champion against Chris Jericho in the main event. The nWo feuded with both Austin and The Rock, and Hogan accepted The Rock's challenge to a match at WrestleMania X8, where Hogan asked Hall and Nash not to interfere, wanting to defeat The Rock by himself. Despite the fact that Hogan was supposed to be the villain in the match, the crowd cheered for him heavily. The Rock cleanly won the contest, and befriended Hogan at the end of the bout and helped him fight off Hall and Nash, who were upset by Hogan's conciliatory attitude. After the match, Hogan was a definite fan favorite again, siding with The Rock, though he continued wearing black and white tights for a few weeks after WrestleMania X8 until he resumed wearing his signature red and yellow tights. During this period, the \"Hulk Rules\" logo of the 1980s was redone with the text \"Hulk Still Rules\", and Hogan also wore the original \"Hulk Rules\" attire twelve years earlier, when he headlined WrestleMania VI at the same arena, in the SkyDome. For a time, he was still known as \"Hollywood\" Hulk Hogan, notably keeping the Hollywood Hogan style blond mustache with black beard while wearing Hulkamania-like red and yellow tights and using the \"Voodoo Child\" entrance theme music he used in WCW. On April 4, Hogan feuded with Triple H and defeated him for the Undisputed WWF Championship and sixth and final WWF Championship at Backlash, thus becoming the last ever WWF Champion before the initials dispute against the World Wildlife Fund For Nature.\n\nOn May 19 at Judgment Day, Hogan lost the title to The Undertaker. After losing a number one contender match for the WWE Undisputed Championship to Triple H on June 6, Hogan began feuding with Kurt Angle resulting in a match between the two at the King of the Ring, which Angle won by submission. On the July 4 episode of \"SmackDown!\", Hogan teamed with Edge to defeat Billy and Chuck and capture the WWE Tag Team Championship for the first time. They celebrated by waving the American flag as the overjoyed audience sang along to Hogan's theme song \"Real American\". They later dropped the titles to The Un-Americans (Christian and Lance Storm), at Vengeance. In August 2002, Hogan was used in an angle with Brock Lesnar, culminating in a main event singles match, which Lesnar won by submission (the match was called after Hogan became unconscious from a bear hug hold). Lesnar became only the second WWE wrestler to defeat Hogan by submission (after Kurt Angle), and the first to defeat Hogan by having the match called. Following the match, Lesnar continued to beat on Hogan, leaving him bloody and unconscious in the ring.\n\nAs a result of Lesnar's assault, Hogan went on hiatus and was not able to return until early 2003, shaving off his black beard and dropping \"Hollywood\" from his name in his return. Hogan battled The Rock (who had turned villainous) once again at No Way Out and defeated Mr. McMahon at WrestleMania XIX in a match billed as \"twenty years in the making\". After WrestleMania XIX, he had a run as the masked Mr. America, who was supposed to be Hogan in disguise, wearing a mask. He used Hogan's \"Real American\" as entrance theme and all of Hogan's signature gestures, moves, and phrases. He was the subject of a storyline that took place after Hogan was forced by Mr. McMahon to sit out the rest of his contract. A WWE pre-debut push took place with mysterious Mr. America promos airing for weeks during \"SmackDown!\". There was also on-screen discussion on \"SmackDown!\" between then General Manager Stephanie McMahon and other players concerning her hiring Mr. America \"sight unseen\". On May 1, Mr. America debuted on \"SmackDown!\" on a \"Piper's Pit\" segment. McMahon appeared and claimed that Mr. America was Hogan in disguise; Mr. America shot back by saying, \"I am not Hulk Hogan, brother!\" (lampooning Hogan's use of \"brother\" in his promos). The feud continued through the month of May, with a singles match between Mr. America and Hogan's old rival Roddy Piper at Judgment Day.\n\nMr. America's last WWE appearance was on the June 26 episode of \"SmackDown!\" when Big Show and The World's Greatest Tag Team (Charlie Haas and Shelton Benjamin) defeated Brock Lesnar, Kurt Angle, and Mr. America in a six-man tag team match. After the show went off the air, Mr. America unmasked to show the fans that he was indeed Hogan, putting his finger to his lips telling the fans to keep quiet about his secret. The next week, Hogan quit WWE due to frustration with the creative team. On the July 3 episode of \"SmackDown!\", McMahon showed the footage of Mr. America unmasking as Hogan and \"fired\" him, although Hogan had already quit in real life. It was later revealed that Hogan was unhappy with the payoffs for his matches after his comeback under the Mr. America gimmick. McMahon decided to terminate Hogan's contract and Hogan left WWE in 2003.\n\nHogan returned to NJPW in October 2003, when he defeated Masahiro Chono at Ultimate Crush II in the Tokyo Dome.\n\nShortly after Hogan left WWE, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) began making overtures to Hogan, culminating in Jeff Jarrett, co-founder of TNA and then NWA World Heavyweight Champion, launching an on-air attack on Hogan in Japan in October 2003. The attack was supposed to be a precursor to Hogan battling Jarrett for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship at TNA's first three-hour pay-per-view. However, due to recurring knee and hip problems, Hogan did not appear in TNA. Still, the incident has been shown several times on TNA broadcasts, and was included in the TNA DVD \"TNA's Fifty Greatest Moments\".\n\nOn April 2, 2005, Hogan was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2005 by actor and friend Sylvester Stallone. At WrestleMania 21 on April 3, Hogan came out to rescue Eugene, who was being attacked by Muhammad Hassan and Khosrow Daivari. The build-up to Hogan's Hall of Fame induction and preparation for his WrestleMania angle was shown on the first season of \"Hogan Knows Best\". The next night on \"Raw\", Hassan and Daivari came out to confront and assault fan favorite Shawn Michaels. The following week on \"Raw\", Michaels approached Raw General Manager Eric Bischoff demanding a handicap match with Hassan and Daivari. Bischoff refused, but told Michaels if he found a partner he would be granted a tag team match. Michaels then made a plea for Hogan to team with him. On the April 18 episode of \"Raw\", Hassan again led an attack on Michaels until Hogan appeared, saving Michaels and accepting his offer. At Backlash, Hassan and Daivari lost to Hogan and Michaels.\n\nHogan then appeared on July 4 episode of \"Raw\", as the special guest of Carlito on his talk-show segment \"Carlito's Cabana\". After being asked questions by Carlito concerning his daughter Brooke, Hogan attacked Carlito. Kurt Angle then also appeared, making comments about Brooke, which further upset Hogan, who was eventually double teamed by Carlito and Angle, but was saved by Shawn Michaels. Later that night, Michaels and Hogan defeated Carlito and Angle in a tag team match; during the post-match celebration, Michaels performed the \"Sweet Chin Music\" on Hogan and walked off. The following week on \"Raw\", Michaels appeared on \"Piper's Pit\" and challenged Hogan to face him one-on-one for the first time. Hogan appeared on \"Raw\" one week later and accepted the challenge. The match took place at SummerSlam, which Hogan won. After the match, Michaels extended his hand to him, telling him that he \"had to find out for himself\", and Hogan and Michaels shook hands as Michaels left the ring to allow Hogan to celebrate with the crowd.\n\nPrior to WrestleMania 22 in April 2006, Hogan inducted friend and former announcer \"Mean\" Gene Okerlund into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2006. Hogan returned on the July 15 episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\" with his daughter Brooke. During the show, Randy Orton kayfabe flirted with Brooke and later attacked Hogan in the parking lot. He later challenged Hogan to a match at SummerSlam, which Hogan won.\n\nAfter a brief fall out with McMahon and WWE, Hogan was lured to Memphis Wrestling with the proposal of wrestling Jerry Lawler. The match had been promoted on \"Memphis Wrestling Prime Time\" for several months. On April 12, 2007, however, Lawler announced in a news conference that WWE had barred him from wrestling Hogan on the basis that NBC performers (including Lawler, on the basis of co-hosting the NBC-owned USA Network's \"Raw\" and his appearances on the biannual WWE's \"Saturday Night's Main Event\") are contractually prohibited from appearing on VH1, the channel on which \"Hogan Knows Best\" airs. The situation resulted in a lawsuit being filed against WWE by event promoter Corey Maclin. Lawler was replaced with Paul Wight. Hogan defeated Wight at Memphis Wrestling's PMG Clash of Legends on April 27, 2007 when he picked up and hit a body slam on Wight before pinned him following his signature running leg drop.\n\nOn November 21, 24, 26 and 28, Hogan performed with a group of wrestlers including Spartan-3000, Heidenreich, Eugene, Brutus \"The Barber\" Beefcake and Orlando Jordan across Australia in a tour titled . The main event of each show was a rematch between Hogan and Ric Flair – the wrestler who defeated Hogan more times than any other. Hogan defeated Flair in all four matches.\n\nOn October 27, 2009, it was announced that Hogan had signed a contract to join TNA on a full-time basis. The footage of his signing and the press conference at Madison Square Garden following it were featured on the October 29 episode of \"Impact!\".\n\nOn December 5, 2009, Hogan announced on Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC)'s \"The Ultimate Fighter\" that he would be making his official TNA debut on January 4, 2010, in a special live three-hour Monday night episode of \"Impact!\" to compete with WWE's \"Raw\" (which featured the return of Bret Hart). Dixie Carter revealed Hogan's role in the company in an interview with \"The UK Sun\" stating when his job came to question, \"He is involved with everything from looking at the talent to how we shoot the show\".\n\nOn the January 4 episode of \"Impact!\", Hogan debuted, reuniting briefly with former nWo partners Kevin Nash, Scott Hall, and Sean Waltman, the latter two of whom made their returns to the company. He, however, refused to join them for a full-fledged reunion of their group claiming, \"it's a different time\", and stuck to his business relations with Bischoff, who made his appearance to declare that, the two of them would \"flip the company upside down\" and everyone would have to earn their spot. Hogan also encountered TNA founder Jeff Jarrett on the broadcast, appearing via video wall and interrupting Jarrett's company success speech, stating that Carter was instrumental to the company's survival, and that just like the rest, Jarrett would have to (kayfabe) earn his spot in TNA.\n\nOn the February 18 episode of \"Impact!\", Hogan took Abyss under his wing, and during this sequence, gave him his Hall of Fame ring and claimed it would make him a \"god of wrestling\". Hogan made his in-ring return on March 8, teaming with Abyss to defeat A.J. Styles and Ric Flair when Abyss scored a pinfall over Styles. Afterwards, the returning Jeff Hardy saved Hogan and Abyss from a beat down at the hands of Styles, Flair and Desmond Wolfe. The storyline became a Team Flair versus Team Hogan situation, with Jarrett and the debuting Rob Van Dam joining Team Hogan and Beer Money (James Storm and Robert Roode) and Sting joining Team Flair. At Lockdown, Team Hogan (Hulk Hogan, Abyss, Jeff Jarrett, Jeff Hardy and Rob Van Dam) defeated Team Flair (Ric Flair, Sting, Desmond Wolfe, Robert Roode and James Storm) in a Lethal Lockdown match.\n\nOn the June 17 episode of \"Impact!\", Hogan's alliance with Abyss came to an abrupt end when Abyss became a villain. Abyss later claimed that he was controlled by some entity, that was coming to TNA. The next month, Hogan worked with Bischoff, Jeff Jarrett and Samoa Joe against Sting and Kevin Nash, who claimed that they knew that Hogan and Bischoff were up to something. During this time, Abyss went on a rampage, attacking Rob Van Dam to the point that he was forced to vacate the TNA World Heavyweight Championship and eventually put his hands on TNA president Dixie Carter, which led to her signing the paperwork, presented by Bischoff, that would have Abyss fired from TNA following his match with Van Dam at Bound for Glory. Hogan was set to wrestle with Jarrett and Joe against Sting, Nash and D'Angelo Dinero at Bound for Glory, but was forced to miss the event due to a back surgery. However, he would make an appearance at the end of the event, turning villain for the first time since 2002, helping Jeff Hardy win the vacant TNA World Heavyweight Championship and aligning himself with Hardy, Bischoff, Abyss and Jarrett. On the following episode of \"Impact!\", it was revealed that Bischoff had tricked Carter and the paperwork she had signed a week earlier, were not to release Abyss, but to turn the company over to him and Hogan. Meanwhile, Bischoff's and Hogan's new stable, now known as Immortal, formed an alliance with Ric Flair's Fortune. Dixie Carter returned on the November 25 episode of \"Reaction\", informing Hogan and Bischoff that a judge had filed an injunction against the two on her behalf over not having signatory authority, indefinitely suspending Hogan from TNA. During his absence, Hogan underwent a potentially career–ending spinal fusion surgery on December 21, 2010.\n\nHogan returned to TNA on the March 3, 2011 episode of \"Impact!\", declaring himself as the new owner of TNA, having won the court battle against Dixie Carter. In April, he began hinting at a possible return to the ring to face the TNA World Heavyweight Champion, Sting. On the May 12 episode of the newly renamed \"Impact Wrestling\", Hogan lost control of the program to Mick Foley, who revealed himself as the Network consultant who had been causing problems for Immortal ever since Hogan and Bischoff took over the company; however, this angle was cut short just three weeks later, when Foley left the promotion. During the following months, Hogan continued to interfere in Sting's matches, costing him the TNA World Heavyweight Championship first at Hardcore Justice, recruiting Kurt Angle to Immortal in the process, on the September 1 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" and finally at No Surrender. On the September 15 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Sting defeated Immortal member Ric Flair to earn the right to face Hogan at Bound for Glory. On October 4, it was reported that Hogan had signed a contract extension with TNA. After feigning retirement from professional wrestling, Hogan accepted the match at Bound for Glory on the October 6 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", while also agreeing to hand TNA back to Dixie Carter, should Sting win the match.\n\nHogan was defeated by Sting at Bound For Glory, ending his storyline as the president of TNA. After the match, Immortal attacked Sting, but Hogan turned into a fan favorite once again by turning on Immortal and helping Sting. On the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Hogan, wearing his trademark yellow and red again, admitted to his mistakes, and put over Sting for winning.\n\nOn January 26, 2012, Hogan returned to the ring at a house show in Nottingham, England, where he, James Storm and Sting defeated Bobby Roode, Bully Ray and Kurt Angle in a six-man tag team main event. Hogan returned to \"Impact Wrestling\" on February 2, when he was revealed as Garett Bischoff's trainer. On the March 29 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Hogan returned and accepted Sting's offer to replace him as the new General Manager.\n\nIn July, Hogan, alongside Sting, began feuding with a mysterious group of masked men, who had dubbed themselves the \"Aces & Eights\". The group's attack on Hogan on the July 12 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" was used to write Hogan off television as he was set to undergo another back surgery.\n\nIn November, Hogan moved into a storyline with Bully Ray after Austin Aries revealed a secret relationship between Ray and Hogan's daughter Brooke. After seeing them kissing in a parking garage on the December 20 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Hogan suspended Ray indefinitely. The following week on \"Impact Wrestling\", after Ray saved Brooke from a kidnapping by the Aces & Eights, Brooke accepted his marriage proposal. Despite Hogan's disapproval, he still walked Brooke down the aisle for her wedding on the next episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", during which Ray's groomsmen Taz interrupted and revealed himself as a member of the Aces & Eights, leading the group to attack Hogan, Ray, and the rest of the groomsmen.\n\nOn the January 31 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Hogan reinstated Ray so he could take on the Aces & Eights. Hogan named Ray the number one contender to the TNA World Heavyweight Championship on the February 21 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". However, at Lockdown, Ray betrayed Hogan, after Aces & Eights helped him win the title, and he revealed himself as the President of the Aces & Eights. Following Lockdown, Hogan blamed Sting for Ray winning the title as it was Sting who encouraged Hogan to give Ray the title shot. Sting returned and saved Hogan from an attack by Aces & Eights on the April 25 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". The following week on \"Impact Wrestling\", Hogan and Sting managed to reconcile their differences. On the October 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Hogan refused an offer from Dixie Carter to become her business partner and quit; this was done to officially write Hogan off, as a result of his contract expiring with TNA.\n\nOn February 24, 2014 on \"Raw\", Hogan made his first WWE in-ring appearance since December 2007 to hype the WWE Network. On the March 24 episode of \"Raw\", Hogan came out to introduce the guest appearances of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Joe Manganiello; this was to promote the guests' new movie \"Sabotage\".\nAt WrestleMania XXX in March, Hogan served as the host, coming out at the start of the show to hype up the crowd. During his promo, he mistakenly referred to the Superdome, the venue the event was being held at, as the Silverdome, which became the subject of jokes throughout the night. Hogan was later joined by Stone Cold Steve Austin and The Rock, and they finished their promo by drinking beer together in the ring. Later in the show, Hogan shared a moment with Mr. T, Paul Orndorff and Roddy Piper, with whom he main evented the first WrestleMania.\n\nOn February 27, 2015, Hogan was honored at Madison Square Garden during a WWE live event dubbed \"Hulk Hogan Appreciation Night\" with a special commemorative banner hanging from the rafters, honoring his wrestling career and historic matches he had in the arena.\n\nOn the March 23 episode of \"Raw\", Hogan along with Snoop Dogg confronted Curtis Axel – who at the time had been \"borrowing\" Hogan's Hulkamania gimmick with Axel referring to himself as \"AxelMania\". On March 28, the night before WrestleMania, Hogan posthumously inducted longtime partner and rival \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2015. The next night at WrestleMania 31, Hogan reunited with Hall and Nash to reform the nWo, appearing in Sting's corner in his match against Triple H, who himself was joined by D-Generation X members Billy Gunn, X-Pac, Road Dogg, and Shawn Michaels.\n\nOn July 24, 2015, WWE terminated their contract with Hogan, stating that they are \"committed to embracing and celebrating individuals from all backgrounds\", although Hogan's lawyer said Hogan chose to resign. A day prior, WWE removed virtually all references to Hogan from their website, including his listing as a judge for \"Tough Enough\", his merchandise from WWE Shop, and his entry from its WWE Hall of Fame page. His DLC appearance from \"WWE 2K15\" was taken down from sale, and his character was cut from then upcoming \"WWE 2K16\" game during development. The termination coincided with the publication by the \"National Enquirer\" and Radar Online of an anti-black rant made by Hogan on his controversial leaked sex tape in which he is heard expressing disgust with the notion of his daughter with any black man, referenced by repeated use of the racial slur \"nigger\". Hogan also admitted to being \"a racist, to a point\".\n\nOnce the recordings went public erupting in a media scandal, Hogan apologized for the remarks, which he said is \"language that is offensive and inconsistent with [his] own beliefs\". Three black wrestlers who worked in the WWF and WCW with Hogan made supportive comments. Virgil commented \"Hogan has never given me a reason to believe he is a racist\" while Dennis Rodman said he \"most certainly is not a racist\" and Kamala added \"I do not think Hogan meant harm by saying that. Hogan is my brother until he decides not to be\". Black wrestlers working in the WWE made different comments. Mark Henry said he was pleased by WWE's \"no tolerance approach to racism\" response, and that he was hurt and offended by Hogan's manner and tone. Booker T said he was shocked and called the statements unfortunate.\n\nIn response to the controversy, Mattel stopped producing Hogan action figures, while Hogan's merchandise was taken down from online stores of Target, Toys \"R\" Us, and Walmart. On July 28, Radar Online reported that Hogan had also used homophobic slurs on the leaked sex tape. Days later, it was reported that Hogan had used racist language in a 2008 call to his then-imprisoned son, Nick, and also said that he hoped they would not be reincarnated as black males.\n\nHogan gave an interview with \"ABC\" on August 31 in which he pleaded forgiveness for his racist comments, attributing these to a racial bias inherited from his neighborhood while growing up. Hogan claimed that the term \"nigger\" was used liberally among friends in Tampa; however, former neighbors have disputed this claim.\n\nAfter the scandal, WWE senior executive Paul \"Triple H\" Levesque has since stated that he is open to a Hogan return.\n\nOn July 15, 2018, Hogan was reinstated into the WWE Hall of Fame. Later that same night, he was invited backstage to WWE's Extreme Rules pay-per-view event. Hogan made his television return on November 2, 2018 at Crown Jewel.\n\nHogan created and financed a restaurant called \"Pastamania\" located in the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota. It opened on the Labor Day weekend of 1995 and was heavily promoted on World Championship Wrestling's live show \"Monday Nitro\". The restaurant, which remained in operation for less than a year, featured such dishes as \"Hulk-U's\" and \"Hulk-A-Roos\".\n\nIn an interview on \"The Tonight Show\" and \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", Bollea claimed that the George Foreman Grill was originally offered to him, but he failed to respond in time, so Foreman endorsed the grill instead. Instead, Bollea endorsed a blender, known as the Hulk Hogan Thunder Mixer. He has since endorsed a grill known as \"The Hulk Hogan Ultimate Grill\".\n\nIn 2006, Bollea unveiled his own energy drink \"Hogan Energy\", distributed by Socko Energy. His name and likeness are also applied to a line of microwavable hamburgers, cheeseburgers, and chicken sandwiches sold at Wal-Mart called \"Hulkster Burgers\". On November 1, 2011, Bollea launched a new website called \"Hogan Nutrition\", which features many nutritional and dietary products.\n\nOn New Year's Eve 2012, Bollea opened a beachfront restaurant called \"Hogan's Beach\", located in the Tampa area. The restaurant dropped Hogan's name in October 2015.\n\nIn September 2008, Bollea's net worth was revealed to be over $30 million. In September 2011, Bollea revealed that his lavish lifestyle and divorce had cost him hundreds of millions of dollars and nearly bankrupted him.\n\nIn October 2007, Bollea transferred all trademarks referring to himself to his liability company named \"Hogan Holdings Limited\". The trademarks include Hulk Hogan, \"Hollywood\" Hulk Hogan, Hulkster, Hogan Knows Grillin, Hulkamania.com, and Hulkapedia.com.\n\nIn April 2008, Bollea announced that he would lend his license to video game developer Gameloft to create \"Hulkamania Wrestling\" for mobile phones. Hogan stated in a press release that the game would be \"true to [his] experiences in wrestling\" and use his classic wrestling moves like the Doublehand Choke Lift and Strong Clothesline. , Hogan stars alongside Troy Aikman in commercials for Rent-A-Center. On March 24, 2011, Hogan made a special appearance on \"American Idol\", giving a big surprise to wrestling fans Paul McDonald and James Durbin. On October 15, 2010, Endemol Games UK (a subsidiary of media production group Endemol UK) announced a partnership with Bischoff Hervey Entertainment to produce \"Hulk Hogan's Hulkamania\", an online gambling game featuring video footage of Hogan.\n\nIn October 2013, Bollea partnered with Tech Assets, Inc. to open a web hosting service called \"Hostamania\". To promote the service, a commercial video was released, featuring Hogan parodying Jean-Claude Van Damme's GoDaddy.com commercials and Miley Cyrus' \"Wrecking Ball\" music video. On November 21, 2013, Hulk Hogan and GoDaddy.com appeared together on a live Hangout On Air on Google Plus, where Hulk Hogan had a casual conversation about Hostamania, fans, and business.\n\nHogan became a distributor for multi-level marketing company ViSalus Sciences after looking for business opportunities outside of wrestling. Hogan supports the American Diabetes Association.\n\nHogan's crossover popularity led to several television and movie roles. Early in his career Bollea played the part of Thunderlips in \"Rocky III\" (1982). He also appeared in \"No Holds Barred\" (1989), before starring in family films \"Suburban Commando\" (1991), \"Mr. Nanny\" (1993), \"Santa with Muscles\" (1996), and \"\" (1998). Hogan also appeared in 1992 commercials for Right Guard deodorant. He starred in his own television series, \"Thunder in Paradise\", in 1994. He is the star of \"The Ultimate Weapon\" (1997), in which Brutus Beefcake also appears in a cameo.\n\nBollea also starred in a pair of television movies, originally intended as a pilot for an ongoing series for TNT, produced by Eric Bischoff. The movies, \"Shadow Warriors: Assault on Devil's Island\" and \"Shadow Warriors: Hunt for The Death Merchant\", starred Hogan alongside Carl Weathers and Shannon Tweed as a freelance mercenary team. In 1995, he appeared on TBN's \"Kids Against Crime\". Bollea made cameo appearances in \"Muppets from Space\", \"\" (the theatrical cut) and \"Spy Hard\" as himself. Hogan also played the role of Zeus in \"Little Hercules in 3D\". Hogan also made two appearances on \"The A-Team\" (in 1985 and 1986), along with Roddy Piper. He also appeared on \"Suddenly Susan\" in 1999. In 2001, Hogan guest-starred on an episode of \"Walker, Texas Ranger\".\n\nHogan has become a busy voice actor in recent years making guest voice spots on \"Robot Chicken\" and \"American Dad!\" and as a main actor in the Cartoon Network/Adult Swim series \"China, Illinois\".\n\nOn July 10, 2005, VH1 premiered \"Hogan Knows Best\" a reality show which centered around Hogan, his then-wife Linda, and their children Brooke and Nick. In July 2008, a spin-off entitled \"Brooke Knows Best\" premiered, which focused primarily on Hogan's daughter Brooke.\n\nBollea hosted the comeback series of \"American Gladiators\" on NBC in 2008. He also hosted and judged the short-lived reality show, \"Hulk Hogan's Celebrity Championship Wrestling\". Hogan had a special titled \"Finding Hulk Hogan\" on A&E on November 17, 2010.\n\nIn 2015, Hogan was a judge on the sixth season of \"Tough Enough\", alongside Paige and Daniel Bryan, but due to the scandal, he was replaced by The Miz after episode 5.\n\nBollea released a music CD, \"Hulk Rules\", as Hulk Hogan and The Wrestling Boot Band. Also, Green Jellÿ released a single, a duet with Hogan, performing Gary Glitter's classic song \"I'm the Leader of the Gang (I Am)\". He has also made cameos in several music videos. From her self-named show, \"Dolly\" the music video for Dolly Parton's wrestling-themed love song \"Headlock on my Heart\" features Hogan as \"Starlight Starbright\". In the music video \"Pressure\" by Belly ft. Ginuwine, Bollea and his daughter Brooke both made brief cameo appearances.\n\nBollea was a regular guest on Bubba the Love Sponge's radio show. He also served as the best man at Bubba's January 2007 wedding. On March 12, 2010, Bollea hosted his own radio show, titled \"Hogan Uncensored\", on Sirius Satellite Radio's Howard 101.\n\nBollea provided his voice for the game \"\" as Angel de la Muerte, a member of the Saints. In October 2011, he released a video game called \"Hulk Hogan's Main Event\".\n\nHulk Hogan and Hollywood Hogan are featured in the following licensed wrestling video games:\n\nFeatured on game cover<br>\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Hogan was featured in the Sega Genesis version of the game (of which he was also on the cover), but was not in the SNES version<br>\n^Hogan was featured in the Nintendo DS version of the game (of which he was also on the cover), but was not in the PSP version<br>\n<nowiki>#</nowiki>Hogan was downloadable content and removed after his racial scandal\n\nOn March 27, 1985, just days prior to the inaugural WrestleMania, Richard Belzer requested on his cable TV talk show \"Hot Properties\" that Hogan demonstrate one of his signature wrestling moves. After consistently refusing but being egged on by Belzer, Hogan put Belzer in a modified Guillotine choke, which caused Belzer to pass out. When Hogan released him, Belzer hit his head on the floor, sustaining a laceration to the scalp that required a brief hospitalization. Belzer sued Hogan for $5 million and later settled out of court. On October 20, 2006, on the \"Bubba the Love Sponge Show\", it was claimed (with Hogan in the studio) that the settlement totaled $5 million, half from Hogan and half from Vince McMahon. During his June 23, 2008, appearance on Sirius Satellite Radio's \"The Howard Stern Show\", Belzer suggested that the real settlement amount was actually closer to $400,000.\n\nIn 1994, Hogan, having received immunity from prosecution, testified in the trial of Vince McMahon relating to shipments of steroids received by both parties from WWF physician Dr. George T. Zahorian. Under oath, Hogan admitted that he had used anabolic steroids since 1976 to gain size and weight, but that McMahon had neither sold him the drugs, nor ordered him to take them. The evidence given by Hogan proved extremely costly to the government's case against McMahon. Due to this and jurisdictional issues, McMahon was found not guilty.\n\nIn April 2012, a sex tape between Hogan and Heather Clem, the estranged wife of radio personality Bubba the Love Sponge, emerged online. On October 4, 2012, Gawker released a short clip of the video. In the video, Bubba can be heard saying that the couple can \"do their thing\" and he will be in his office. At the end of the video, he can also be heard telling Heather, \"If we ever need to retire, here is our ticket\". Hogan later told Howard Stern on his satellite radio show that, \"it was a bad choice and a very low point\" and \"I was with some friends and made a wrong choice. It has devastated me, I have never been this hurt\". On October 15, 2012, Hogan filed a lawsuit against Bubba and Heather Clem for invading his privacy. A settlement with Bubba was announced on October 29, 2012. Afterwards, Clem publicly apologized to Hogan. In December 2012, a federal court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, found that Gawker's publication of the video snippet did not violate U.S. copyright law. Hogan then joined Gawker to the ongoing action against Heather Clem in state court in Florida, alleging invasion of privacy, negligent and intentional infliction of emotional distress and seeking $100 million in damages.\n\nOn October 1, 2015, the \"New York Post\" reported that a Florida Judge granted Hogan access to Gawker's computer system for a forensic expert to search Gawker's computers and office.\n\nHogan sued Gawker for $100 million for defamation, loss of privacy, and emotional pain, and on March 18, 2016, was awarded $115 million. Also, on August 11, 2016, a Florida judge gave Hogan control of the assets of A.J. Daulerio, former Gawker editor-in-chief, who was involved in the posting of Hogan's sex tape.\n\nSilicon Valley billionaire Peter Thiel helped Hogan to finance his lawsuit against Gawker Media.\n\nOn November 2, 2016, Gawker reached a $31 million settlement with Bollea.\n\nOn December 18, 1983, Bollea married Linda Claridge. They have a daughter Brooke (born May 5, 1988) and a son Nick (born July 27, 1990). Bollea made his personal life the centerpiece of the television show \"Hogan Knows Best\", which included his wife and two children.\n\nAccording to an interview in the \"National Enquirer\", Christiane Plante claimed that Bollea had an affair with her in 2007 while the Hogan family was shooting \"Hogan Knows Best\". Plante was 33 years old at the time and had worked with Brooke Hogan on her 2006 album.\n\nOn November 20, 2007, Linda filed for divorce in Pinellas County, Florida. In November 2008, Linda claimed to the public that she made the decision to end her marriage after finding out about Hogan's affair. In his 2009 autobiography, Hogan acknowledged that Linda on numerous occasions suspected he was having infidelities whenever he developed friendships with other women, but denied allegations that he ever cheated on her. Bollea only retained around 30% of the couple's liquid assets totaling around $10 million in the divorce settlement. Hogan considered committing suicide after the divorce and credits Laila Ali, his co-star on \"American Gladiators\", with preventing him from doing so.\n\nBollea has been in a relationship with Jennifer McDaniel since early 2008. The two were engaged in November 2009 and married on December 14, 2010, in Clearwater, Florida.\n\nBollea is a Christian. Bollea has spoken about his faith in his life saying, \"[I've] leaned on my religion. I was saved when I was 14. I accepted Christ as my savior. He died on the cross and paid for my sins ... I could have went the wrong way. I could have self-destructed, but I took the high road\".\n\nBollea has suffered numerous health problems, particularly with his back since retiring as a wrestler following the years of heavyweight training and jolting as a wrestler.\n\nOn January 2013, Bollea filed a medical malpractice lawsuit against the Laser Spine Institute for $50 million, citing that the medical firm persuaded him to undergo a half-dozen \"unnecessary and ineffective\" spinal operations that worsened his back problems. He claimed that the six procedures he underwent over a period of 19 months only gave him short-term relief. After the procedures failed to cure his back problems, Bollea underwent a traditional spinal fusion surgery on December 2010, which enabled him to return to his professional activities. In addition, the Laser Spine Institute used his name on their advertisements without his permission.\n\nBollea was honored as the 2008 King of the Krewe of Bacchus, a New Orleans carnival organization. Hogan visited the Children's Hospital of New Orleans and rode in the parade where he threw doubloons with his likeness. Hogan received the honor in part because meeting Hogan is one of the most requested \"wishes\" of the terminally ill children benefited by the Make-A-Wish Foundation.\n\nHogan was inducted in the Boys and Girls Club Alumni Hall of Fame on May 3, 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "536807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536807", "title": "Indenture", "text": "Indenture\n\nAn indenture is a legal contract that reflects or covers a debt or purchase obligation. It specifically refers to two types of practices: in historical usage, an indentured servant status, and in modern usage, it is an instrument used for commercial debt or real estate transaction.\n\nAn indenture is a legal contract between two parties, particularly for indentured labour or a term of apprenticeship but also for certain land transactions. The term comes from the medieval English \"indenture of retainer\" — a legal contract written in duplicate on the same sheet, with the copies separated by cutting along a jagged (toothed, hence the term \"in\"dent\"ure\") line so that the teeth of the two parts could later be refitted to confirm authenticity (Chirograph). Each party to the deed would then retain a part. When the agreement was made before a court of law a \"tripartite\" indenture was made, with the third piece kept at the court. The term is used for any kind of deed executed by more than one party, in contrast to a deed poll which is made by one individual. In the case of bonds, the indenture shows the pledge, promises, representations and covenants of the issuing party.\n\nAlthough other evidence indicates that the method has been in use from around the year 1000, the earliest surviving examples in England are from the thirteenth century. These are agreements for military service, proving that a paid, contract army was then in existence. Exchequer records of Henry V's French campaign of 1415 (the Agincourt campaign), including the indentures of all the captains of the army agreeing to provide specified numbers of men and at what cost, may still be read. An indenture was commonly used as a form of sealed contract or agreement for land and buildings. An example of such a use can be found in the National Archives, where an indenture, from about 1401, recording the transfer of the manor of Pinley, Warwickshire, is held. \n\nIn the early history of the United States, many European immigrants served a period of indentured labour in order to pay the cost of their transportation. This practice was common during the 17th and 18th centuries, where over half of immigrants worked off an average of three years' servitude.\n\nBond indenture (also trust indenture or deed of trust) is a legal document issued to lenders and describes key terms such as the interest rate, maturity date, convertibility, pledge, promises, representations, covenants, and other terms of the bond offering. When the offering memorandum is prepared in advance of marketing a bond, the indenture will typically be summarised in the \"description of notes\" section.\n\nIn the United States, public debt offerings in excess of $10 million require the use of an indenture of trust under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939. The rationale for this is that it is necessary to establish a collective action mechanism under which creditors can collect in a fair, orderly manner if default takes place (like that which occurs during bankruptcy). No trust relationship exists between the bondholder and the issuing corporation. These two are in a regular contractual, arm's length, non-fiduciary, non-equity relationship. Rather, the trustee in a \"trust indenture\" is a third party, usually a specialist company, who is appointed by the issuer to handle and safeguard the interests of the numerous public bondholders, in events ranging from the usual distribution of coupons and principal payments to dealing with the issuer's default, if any occurs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14527052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14527052", "title": "List of 18th-century British periodicals", "text": "List of 18th-century British periodicals\n\nThis list of 18th-century British periodicals excludes daily newspapers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50553362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50553362", "title": "Nahuatl-Spanish Contact", "text": "Nahuatl-Spanish Contact\n\nNahuatl has been in intense contact with Spanish since the Spanish invasion of 1521. Since that time, there have been a large number of Spanish loanwords introduced to the language, loans which span from nouns and verbs to adjectives and particles. Syntactical constructions have also been borrowed into Nahuatl from Spanish, through which the latter language has exerted typological pressure on the form such that Nahuatl and Spanish are exhibiting syntactic and typological convergence. Today, hardly any Nahuatl monolinguals remain, and the language has undergone extreme shift to Spanish, such that some consider it be on the way to extinction.\n\nThe Nahuatl and Spanish languages have coexisted in stable contact for over 500 years in central Mexico. This long, well-documented period of contact provides some of the best linguistic evidence for contact-induced grammatical change. That is to say, Spanish seems to have exerted a profound influence on the Nahuatl language, but despite the extreme duration of their contact Nahuatl has only recently begun to show signs of language shift. This shift is progressing at a startling rate. Though Nahuatl still has over a million speakers, it is considered by some linguists to be endangered and on the way to extinction (\"Hill & Hill 1980, 321\"). As with regional languages the world over, Nahuatl finds itself being replaced by a ‘world’ language, Spanish, as other small linguistic communities have shifted to languages like English and Chinese. The world’s loss in linguistic diversity can be tied to the its changing economic and political conditions, as the model of industrial capitalism under a culturally homogenizing nation state spread throughout the world and culture becomes more and more global rather than regional. However, we do not always know exactly why some local or ‘traditional’ languages are clung to and preserved while others vanish much more quickly (\"Hill & Hill, 1980, 321\").\n\nContact in earnest between the two languages began along with the beginning of the Spanish conquest of Mexico in 1519. Prior to that, Nahuatl existed as the dominant language of much of central, southern, and western Mexico, the language of the dominant Aztec culture and Mexica ethnic group. Though the Spanish tried to eradicate much of Mexica culture after their defeat of the Mexica Aztec in their capital of Tenochtitlan in 1521, Aztec culture and the Nahuatl language were spread among a variety of ethnic groups in Mexico, some of whom, like the Tlaxcala, were instrumental allies of the Spanish in their defeat of the Aztec empire. Since a large part of the surviving indigenous population, whom the Spanish hoped to Christianize and assimilate, were part of the now fragmented Aztec culture and thus speakers of Nahuatl, the Spanish missionaries recognized that they would continue to need the help of their Nahuatl speaking indigenous allies, and allowed them some relative autonomy in exchange for their help in conquering and Christianizing the remainder of the territory, in parts of which indigenous populations remained hostile throughout the 16th century. In this way, friendly Nahuatl speaking communities were valuable in their role as intermediaries between the Spanish and other indigenous groups.\n\nThough the Spanish issued many decrees throughout the centuries discouraging the uses of native tongues, such decrees were difficult to enforce, and often counter-productive to the goals of the missionary and military forces actually interacting with the indigenous populations (\"Schmal, 2004\"). That is early Spanish Franciscan missionaries believed mutual comprehension between converter and convertee to be essential to a successful Christianization. Many such missionaries learned Nahuatl and developed a system of writing for the language with the Latin alphabet, enabling them to transcribe many works of classical Nahuatl poetry and mythology, preserving the older, pre-contact varieties of the language. Thanks to the efforts of these early missionaries, we have documented sources of the Classical Nahuatl language dating back to the 1540s, which have enabled a systematic investigation of the changes it has undergone over the centuries under the influence of Spanish. Learning Nahuatl also enabled missionaries to teach the Christian gospel to American Indians using evangelical materials prepared in the indigenous language and using indigenous concepts, a technique which certain sects, particularly the Jesuits, believed was often met with better results (Hill & Hill, 1986). \n\nThus, though Nahuatl usage was discouraged officially, its use was actually preserved and encouraged by the Spanish in religious, scholarly, and civil spheres into the late 18th century, until the Spanish monarchy began to take a more hard-line approach towards assimilating indigenous populations into the state. By the time of the 1895 census, there were still 659,865 Mexican citizens who reported themselves to be monolingual Nahuatl speakers, which group represented 32.1% of the total indigenous-speaking population, but over the next century the number of monolingual Nahuatl speakers would decline. By 1930 there were reportedly 355,295 monolingual speakers, and as of the 2000 census there remain only approximately 220,000 monolinguals among the 1.5 million Nahuatl speakers, the vast majority of whom being middle-aged or elderly (Schmal, 2004). At this point, Spanish was well-integrated into most Mexicano communities, and language shift was rapidly occurring among the younger generations.\n\nAs there came to be greater and greater degrees of interaction between Indian and Hispanic communities and with it greater bilingualism and language contact, the Mexicano language changed typologically to converge with Spanish and ease the incorporation of Spanish material. Through the first few years of language contact, most Spanish influence of Nahuatl consisted in simple lexical borrowings of nouns related to the emergent material exchange between the two cultures. However, where the influence of Nahuatl on Mexican Spanish largely stopped at the level of basic lexical borrowings, Nahuatl continued on to borrow more grammatical words: verbs, adjectives, adverbs, prepositions, connective particles, and discourse markers. Incorporation of such borrowed materials into the native language made forced some grammatical alterations to accommodate structures that would not be possible within Classical Nahuatl (\"Flores Farfán, 2004\"). The net effect of such alterations was that “Nahuatl by 1700 or 1720 had become capable in principle of absorbing any Spanish word or construction. The rest has been done by continued, ever growing cultural pressures, bringing in more words and phrases as the two bodies of speakers became more intertwined and bilingualism increased (\"Hill & Hill, 1986\").” \n\nTo be more specific, there has been convergence in word order, level of agglutination, and incorporation of Spanish grammatical particles and discourse markers in Nahuatl speech. For instance, whereas Nahuatl had an adjective-noun word order Mexicano follows Spanish in its noun-adjective word order (\"Flores Farfán, 2004\"). This may be due to the borrowing of phrases from Spanish incorporating the Spanish particle de, in phrases of the form NOUN + de + ADJ, e.g. aretes de oro meaning ‘gold earrings’ (\"Hill & Hill, 1986, 239\"). Furthermore, the incorporation of de in Nahuatl may have also influenced a parallel shift from modifier-head to head-modifier in possessive constructions. That is, Classical Nahuatl had a possessor-possessum/noun-genitive order, but infiltration of the Spanish particle de may have also driven the shift to possessum-possessor/genitive-noun order. Whereas previously possessive noun clauses in the Nahuatl were markedly introduced by an inflected possessum plus and adjunctor in and a possessor, or unmarkedly simply by an possessor and inflected possessum (that is, the in particle was inserted in front of the displaced element of a marked word order), Nahuatl speakers have analyzed the loan de as functioning in a parallel fashion to native in, and used it to create unmarked possessum/possessor constructions in the manner of Spanish, without genitive inflections. \n\nSo far this change has only spread to constructions with inanimate possessors, but it may extend further to compete with and displace Classical varieties and complete syntactic convergence (\"Hill & Hill, 1986, 243\"). Parallel incorporation of Spanish prepositions in the previously postpositional language, along with Mexican Spanish discourse markers like pero, este, bueno, and pues have resulted in a modern Mexicano language that can sound strikingly Spanish in terms of its sentence frames, rhythm, and vocabulary (\"Brody, 1995\"). Finally, some agglutinative tendencies of Nahuatl have faded in contemporary dialects. For instance, in Nahuatl there was a tendency to incorporate nouns into verbs as sorts of adverbial modifiers which is losing productivity (\"Hill & Hill, 1986, 259\"). One could tortilla-make for instance. Verbs generally were accompanied by a wide variety of objective, instrumental, tense, and aspect markers. One commonly would agglutinatively indicate directional purposivity, for instance, but such constructions are now more commonly made with a periphrastic Spanish calque of the form GO + (bare) INF (a la ir + INF). Such disincorporation of verbal modifiers into periphrastic expressions on analogy with Spanish forms indicates a shift towards a more analytic style characteristic of Hispanic speech.\n\n"}
{"id": "34898313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34898313", "title": "Nukapedia", "text": "Nukapedia\n\nNukapedia is a wiki about the \"Fallout\" fictional universe. It covers all of the \"Fallout\" video games, as well as all \"Fallout\" related content. Nukapedia runs on MediaWiki and is currently part of the Wikia network.\n\nThe site supports many foreign language Fallout wikis that operate independently of the main site, but offer a translation link between them; these languages include Bulgarian, Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish and Ukrainian.\n\nNukapedia traces its history back to The Vault, which was founded by Paweł Dembowski and launched on February 7, 2005, initially hosted by \"Fallout\" fansite Duck and Cover, as a general source of information about the \"Fallout\" universe, initially focusing mostly on information about the \"Fallout\" world, as depicted in \"Fallout\" and \"Fallout 2\". Its purpose was to continue the work started by \"Fallout 2\" developer Chris Avellone in his \"Fallout Bible\", which was meant to be a reference guide to the \"Fallout\" fictional universe, but was abandoned after Avellone left Black Isle Studios. Since the launch, the wiki has expanded to include the entire \"Fallout\" series, both in terms of the fictional universe and in terms of gameplay information and help.\n\nIn October 2011, The Vault was split by its founder and many of the administrators moved The Vault branding to FalloutWiki.com, and later fallout.gamepedia.com, both hosted by Curse, along with a copy of all existing content at that time. Despite this, much of the community, and traffic, stayed at the original location, and rechristened themselves Nukapedia. Immediately focusing on growing content, their rolling coverage of the court case between Fallout franchise owner Bethesda Softworks and former owner Interplay Entertainment helped to establish their dominance after the split.\n\nThe site has continued to grow, launching new features and contests to help keep both regulars and new visitors coming to the site, often seeing as many as 1.1 million hits per day. These contests have included \"Fallout Apprentice\", which in one round saw \"Fallout 2\" and \"\" developer Chris Avellone as guest judge.\n\nPrior to the split, in an interview with Eurogamer, the wiki's founder has stated that it has even been used as a source by developers of recent \"Fallout\" games, citing one example of lore in \"Fallout 3\" being influenced by The Vault.\n\nNukapedia has also worked to make available several \"Fallout\" music tracks and cut scenes on its YouTube Channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1249596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1249596", "title": "Peabody Essex Museum", "text": "Peabody Essex Museum\n\nThe Peabody Essex Museum (PEM) in Salem, Massachusetts, is a successor to the East India Marine Society, established in 1799. It combines the collections of the former Peabody Museum of Salem (which acquired the Society's collection) and the Essex Institute. The museum holds one of the major collections of Asian art in the United States. Its total holdings include about 1.3 million pieces, as well as twenty-two historic buildings. The Peabody Essex ranks among the top 20 art museums in the United States by measures including gallery space and endowment. Once the Advancement Campaign is complete and the newly expanded museum opens in 2019, PEM will rank in the top 10 North American art museums in terms of gallery square footage, operating budget and endowment. The PEM holds more than 840,000 works of historical and cultural art covering maritime, American, Asian, Oceanic and African art, Asian export art and two large libraries with over 400,000 books and manuscripts.\n\nIn 1992, the Peabody Museum of Salem merged with the Essex Institute to form the Peabody Essex Museum. Included in the merger was the legacy of the East India Marine Society, established in 1799 by a group of Salem-based captains and supercargoes. Members of the Society were required by the society's charter to collect \"natural and artificial curiosities\" from beyond the Cape of Good Hope or Cape Horn. They were also required to personally circumnavigate the globe, and share navigational discoveries with other Society members, thereby increasing their chances of returning from their voyages safely. Due to the institution's age, the items they donated to the collections are significant for their rare combination of age and provenance. The East India Marine Society built the East India Marine Hall, a National Historic Landmark now embedded in the museum's facilities, in the 1820s to house its collection. This collection was acquired by the Peabody Academy of Science (later renamed the Peabody Museum of Salem) in 1867, along with the building, which continued to serve as a museum space through these mergers and acquisitions.\nIn 2003, the museum completed a massive $100 million renovation and expansion resulting in the Peabody Essex Museum opening a new wing designed by Moshe Safdie, more than doubling the gallery space to 250,000 square feet (23,000 m²); this allowed the display of many items from its extensive holdings, which had previously been unknown to the public due to lack of capability to show them. At this time, the museum also opened to the public the Yin Yu Tang House, an early 19th-century Chinese house from Anhui Province that had been disassembled in its original village and reconstructed in Salem.\n\nIn 2011, the Peabody Essex Museum announced it had raised $550 million, with plans to raise an additional $100 million by 2016. The \"Boston Globe\" reported this was the largest capital campaign in the museum's history, vaulting the Peabody Essex into the top tier of major art museums. The PEM trustee co-chairs Sam Byrne and Sean Healey with board president Robert Shapiro led the campaign.$200 to $250 million will fund the museum’s expansion bringing the total square footage to . The museum is led by Dan Monroe, the Rose-Marie and Eijk van Otterloo Director and CEO.\n\nIn May 2012, the PEM confirmed that its expansion will not be finished until 2019, due the unexpected death of museum architect Rick Mather in April 2012 and the search for his replacement. The museum is still adding galleries, education space, and a restaurant, which will bring the total area to , making the PEM one of the largest art museums in the country. To replace architect Rick Mather, the firm of Ennead Architects was chosen after successfully completing the first phase of the building project, which included master planning and the renovation of the museum's Dodge wing, scheduled to open in November 2013. The museum's expansion project was to start in 2015, and the new wing will open to the public in 2019.\n\nThe museum presently owns collections of maritime art, including works by marine artist James Bard. The museum also has collections of: American decorative art; Asian art; Japanese art; Korean art; Chinese art; Native American art; Oceanic art; African art; Indian art (contemporary); rare books, manuscripts and ephemera (in the Phillips Library); photography (a collection comprising more than a half million rare and vintage images); architecture (24 historic American structures and gardens; 5 buildings are National Historic Landmarks; 8 others are listed on the National Register of Historic Places).\n\nOn December 8, 2017, much to the dismay of Salem residents, Dan L. Monroe, PEM’s Rose-Marie and Eijk van Otterloo Director and CEO, issued a press release announcing that the 42,000 linear feet of historical documents will be permanently relocated to Rowley, MA and Plummer Hall and Daland House, the two historic buildings which had housed the Phillips Library, will be utilized as office and meeting space.\n\nThe museum owns 24 historic structures and gardens, some of which are concentrated in the old Essex Institute grounds which now form the Essex Institute Historic District. Some are shown in the gallery below. The full set of buildings are: Daniel Bray House, Gilbert Chadwick House, Cotting-Smith Assembly House, Crowninshield-Bentley House, John Tucker Daland House, Derby-Beebe Summer House, East India Marine Hall (integrated into the main museum), Gardner-Pingree House and Gardner-Pingree Carriage House, Lyle-Tapley Shoe Shop, Dodge Wing of the Peabody Essex Museum, Asian Export Art Wing of the Peabody Essex Museum, Peirce-Nichols House, Samuel Pickman House, Plummer Hall, Quaker Meeting House, L. H. Rogers Building, Ropes Mansion, Andrew Safford House, Summer School Building, Vilate Young (Kinsman) House, and John Ward House. Some of these properties are open to guided tours.\n\nAmong the American artists represented in the museum's collection:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49471661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49471661", "title": "Philippe Saunier", "text": "Philippe Saunier\n\nPhilippe Saunier (born 1972) is a French art historian who is chief curator at the Bureau de l'inventaire des collections et de la circulation des biens culturels at ministry of culture. He was formerly with the Musée d'Orsay and the Musée Picasso in Paris. He is the author with Thea Burns of \"L'art du pastel\" (2014) which was translated into English and published by Abbeville Press in 2015 as \"The art of the pastel\".\n\nFrom 2004 to 2006, Saunier was a curator at the Musée de l'Orangerie in Paris. From 2006 to 2007, he was personal advisor for archeology and museums in the office of Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres, a French Minister of Culture and Communication. From 2007 to 2008, he was a curator at the Musée Picasso in Paris. He was the commissioner of the exhibition \"Picasso and his Collection\" and wrote the catalogue for the exhibition with Anne Baldassari which was published by the Queensland Art Gallery in Australia in 2008. Later, he was a curator of paintings and pastels at the Musée d'Orsay .\n\nSaunier is now chief curator at the Bureau de l'inventaire des collections et de la circulation des biens culturels at ministry of culture.\n\nSaunier is the author with Thea Burns of \"L'art du pastel\" (2014) which was translated into English and published by Abbeville Press in 2015 as \"The art of the pastel\". The book was described by the publishers as \"The only comprehensive history of pastel art\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177909", "title": "Progressive Socialist Party", "text": "Progressive Socialist Party\n\nThe Progressive Socialist Party or PSP (, \"al-hizb al-taqadummi al-ishtiraki\", ) is a political party in Lebanon. Its current leader is Walid Jumblatt. It is ideologically secular and officially non-sectarian, however, support for the party mainly comes from Lebanon's Druze community. \n\nThe party was founded on 5 January 1949, and registered on 17 March the same year, under notification N°789. The founders comprised six individuals, all of different backgrounds. The most notable of these was Kamal Jumblatt (Walid Jumblatt's father). The others were Farid Jubran, Albert Adeeb, Abdallah Alayli, Fouad Rizk, and George Hanna.\nThe PSP held in Beirut the first conference for the Socialist Arab Parties in Lebanon, Syria, Egypt and Iraq in 1951. From 1951 through 1972 the party had between three and six deputies in parliament.\n\nUnder Kamal Jumblatt's leadership, the PSP was a major element in the Lebanese National Movement (LNM) which supported Lebanon's Arab identity and sympathised with the Palestinians. Despite Jumblatt's initial reluctance to engage in paramilitarism, it built its own powerful military wing, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) which proved to be one of the strongest private armies in the Lebanese Civil War of 1975 to 1990. It conquered much of Mount Lebanon and the Chouf District. Its main adversaries were the Maronite Christian Phalangist Kataeb Regulatory Forces militia, and later the Lebanese Forces militia (which absorbed the Phalangists). The PSP suffered a major setback in 1977, when Kamal Jumblatt was assassinated. His son Walid succeeded him as leader of the party.\n\nFrom the Israeli withdrawal from the Chouf in 1983 to the end of the civil war, the PSP ran a highly effective civil administration, the Civil Administration of the Mountain, in the area under its control. Tolls levied at PSP/PLA militia checkpoints provided a major source of income for the administration, which succeeded in providing a high standard of social and public services.\n\nThe PSP played an important role in the so-called Mountain War under the lead of Walid Jumblatt: after the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) retreated from the Chouf District, important battles took place there between the PSP/PLA and Christian militias. Both the Phalangist Lebanese Forces militia and the PSP/PLA were accused of committing massacres and atrocities against one another as tit-for-tat (revenge killings). This was a sad hallmark of the Lebanese Civil War because the innocent people were the ones who paid the highest price.\n\nSince the restoration of constitutional rule in 1989 PSP was the major ally of Syria in Lebanon and its leader Walid Jumblatt was in close relations with the Syrian Army and intelligence generals in Lebanon, namely Ghazi Kenaan and also with the Syrian Vice President Abdul Halim Khaddam. PSP participated in a number of governments, but, after the Syrian Accountability Act and the UN Resolution 1559 and the change of the balance of powers in the region after the occupation of Iraq, joined the opposition and took up a position opposed to the role of Syria in Lebanon's politics. Unlike some opponents of the Syrian presence, he did not oppose the presence of the Syrian army per se, but contended that the Syrian intelligence services were exerting undue influence.\n\nFollowing the passage of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1559, calling for a Syrian withdrawal from Lebanon, Jumblatt was particularly prominent in the opposition. However, he was opposed to the demand that Hezbollah be disarmed, and insisted on maintaining relations with the Shia Islamist party. Later, he has drifted into sharp opposition towards the group, and has decided to support their disarmament, claiming that Syria and Iran are trying to take over Lebanon through Hezbollah. After the assassination of Rafik Hariri in February 2005, Jumblatt joined the anti-Syria camp despite his long support to Syria. Being part of the 14 March alliance, PSP won 16 seats in the general elections held in 2005.\n\nMarwan Hamade called for dismantling of the communications system of Hezbollah on 5 May 2008, which created a huge response from Hezbollah and its allies. Clashes took place on 7 May 2008, as Hezbollah militia occupied Beirut. The conflict ended after both parties negotiated and reached an agreement at Doha in Qatar on 16 May 2008.\n\nIn late January 2011, Jumblatt declared that he does not support the disarming of Hezbollah. Currently PSP, Hezbollah and several other Lebanese political parties share a \"national unity government\" in Lebanon. With the onset of the Syrian civil war, Jumblatt and the PSP clearly showed their support for the Syrian opposition, and urged the Syrian Druze community to stand against the Assad government, and join the rebels.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36325828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36325828", "title": "Richard Oliver Heslop", "text": "Richard Oliver Heslop\n\nRichard Oliver Heslop was born 14 March 1842 in Newcastle and was educated at The Old Grammar School. He was a business man being joint owner of an Iron Merchants and Engineers, Heslop, Wilson and Budden, of 26 Sandhill and at the Stock Bridge (Stock Bridge, before its demolition, was reasonably close to Sallyport Gate). The company went into administration (or “Liquidation by arrangement or composition with creditors”)\naccording to the London Gazette of 6 November 1874\n\nHe had a great love of literature serving as President of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Newcastle upon Tyne from 1914 until 1916. But in particular he loved North East England and the Northumberland and Geordie dialect and use of words.\n\nHe compiled several books and wrote numerous papers on the subject. His best known and most popular was “'Northumberland Words' (published in 2 volumes in 1893-4)“, the first real dialect dictionary of Geordie words and their meanings, and a set of monumental works running to over 800 Pages.\n\nThe Dictionary was serialised weekly in the Chronicle for a good number of months in the 1880s under the heading of “'Northumberland Words\". It was only later that the subtitle “'A glossary of words used in the County of Northumberland ---- etc\" was added\n\nHe also wrote several poems and songs as a hobby and form of relaxation during his writing of the \"Northumberland Words\"\n\nDuring his life, several addresses are given including (in 1874) 93 Gloster Street, and (in 1894) Akenside Hill, Newcastle upon Tyne.\n\nHe was awarded the honorary degree of Master of Arts (MA) from the University of Durham in September 1901.\n\nRichard Oliver Heslop died in 1916.\n\nThese include :-\n\n\n\n\nGeordie dialect words\nThomas Allan\nAllan's Illustrated Edition of Tyneside Songs and Readings\n\n"}
{"id": "44948860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44948860", "title": "Ross v Henderson", "text": "Ross v Henderson\n\nRoss v Henderson [1977] 2 NZLR 458 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding illegal contracts that were later upheld that the Illegal Contracts Act 1970 had the power to validate (i.e. make legal) despite the fact that another legal enactment \"deemed to be unlawful and shall have no effect\".\n\nIn 1971, Ross entered into an agreement to a 5-year lease his 345-acre dairy farm to Henderson, with an option to purchase the farm for $65,000.\n\nAs leases of 3 years or more are legally required to be registered with the Land Transfer Office, Henderson duly registered the lease, which included the option to purchase.\n\nUnfortunately, the LTO standard declaration form, required under the law, was not designed for such a transaction, and later resulted in Henderson to of breached the law by not registering his purchase, making the sale illegal and of no effect.\n\nIn this background, in 1974 Ross's solicitor wrote to Henderson informing him that the sale of the farm had now come to an end.\n\nHenderson filed in court for relief under the Illegal Contracts Act by having the sale agreement validated.\n\nThe Privy Council ruled that as the law did not specifically rule out validation, then validation was possible, and given that the law was enacted to prevent undue aggregation of land, and that this was not an issue here, the court upheld the out of Appeals earlier decision to validate the sale agreement.\n\nFootnote: This case is often cited along with the earlier Court of Appeal case of Harding v Coburn [1976] 2 NZLR 577.\n"}
{"id": "21073801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21073801", "title": "Smart power", "text": "Smart power\n\nIn international relations, the term smart power refers to the combination of hard power and soft power strategies. It is defined by the Center for Strategic and International Studies as \"an approach that underscores the necessity of a strong military, but also invests heavily in alliances, partnerships, and institutions of all levels to expand one's influence and establish legitimacy of one's action.\"\n\nJoseph Nye, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs under the Clinton administration and author of several books on smart power strategy, suggests that the most effective strategies in foreign policy today require a mix of hard and soft power resources. Employing only hard power or only soft power in a given situation will usually prove inadequate. Nye utilizes the example of terrorism, arguing that combatting terrorism demands smart power strategy. He advises that simply utilizing soft power resources to change the hearts and minds of the Taliban government would be ineffective and requires a hard power component. In developing relationships with the mainstream Muslim world, however, soft power resources are necessary and the use of hard power would have damaging effects.\n\nAccording to Chester A. Crocker, smart power \"involves the strategic use of diplomacy, persuasion, capacity building, and the projection of power and influence in ways that are cost-effective and have political and social legitimacy\"essentially the engagement of both military force and all forms of diplomacy.\n\nThe origin of the term \"smart power\" is under debate and has been attributed to both Suzanne Nossel and Joseph Nye.\n\nSuzanne Nossel, Deputy to Ambassador Holbrooke at the United Nations during the Clinton administration, is credited with coining the term in an article in Foreign Affairs entitled, \"Smart Power: Reclaiming Liberal Internationalism\", in 2004. In her article in the CNN, she has criticized the Trump administration for its \"tunnel-vision\" foreign policy that neglects both soft power and smart power. She writes: \"..Trump seems oblivious toward the brand value of what Joseph Nye has called the 'soft power' that comes from projecting appealing aspects of American society and character abroad. He is also indifferent to my own concept of 'smart power,'or the imperative to engage a broad range of tools of statecraft, from diplomacy to aid to private sector engagement to military intervention.\"\n\nJoseph Nye, however, claims that smart power is a term he introduced in 2003 \"to counter the misperception that soft power alone can produce effective foreign policy.\" He created the term to name an alternative to the hard power-driven foreign policy of the Bush administration. Nye notes that smart power strategy denotes the ability to combine hard and soft power depending on whether hard or soft power would be more effective in a given situation. He states that many situations require soft power; however, in stopping North Korea's nuclear weapons program, for instance, hard power might be more effective than soft power. In the words of the \"Financial Times\", \"to win the peace, therefore, the US will have to show as much skill in exercising soft power as it has in using hard power to win the war.\" Smart power addresses multilateralism and enhances foreign policy.\n\nA successful smart power narrative for the United States in the twenty-first century, Nye argues, will not obsess over power maximization or the preservation of hegemony. Rather, it will find \"ways to combine resources into successful strategies in the new context of power diffusion and the 'rise of the rest.'\" A successful smart power strategy will provide answers to the following questions: 1) What goals or outcomes are preferred? 2) What resources are available and in which contexts? 3) What are the positions and preferences of the targets of attempts at influence? 4) Which forms of power behavior are most likely to succeed? 5) What is the probability of success?\n\nSince the period of \"Pax Britannica\" (1815–1914) the United Kingdom has employed a combination of influence and coercion in international relations.\n\nThe term smart power emerged in the past decade, but the concept of smart power has much earlier roots in the history of the United States and is a popular notion in international relations today.\n\n1901: President Theodore Roosevelt proclaims: \"Speak softly and carry a big stick.\"\n\n1948: The United States initiates major peacetime soft power programs under the authority of the Smith-Mundt Act, including broadcasting, exchange and information world wide to combat the outreach of the Soviet Union.\n\n1991: The end of the Cold War was marked by the collapse of the Berlin Wall, which fell as a result of a combination of hard and soft power. Throughout the Cold War, hard power was used to deter Soviet aggression and soft power was used to erode faith in Communism. Joseph Nye said: \"When the Berlin Wall finally collapsed, it was destroyed not by artillery barrage but by hammers and bulldozers wielded by those who had lost faith in communism.\"\n\n2004: Joseph S. Nye introduces the term \"smart power\" in his book, \"Soft Power: The Means to Success in World Politics\". \"Smart power is neither hard nor soft. It is both,\" he writes. In an article in \"Foreign Affairs\", analyst Suzanne Nossel uses the term \"smart power\". For Nossel, \"Smart power means knowing that the United States' own hand is not always its best tool: U.S. interests are furthered by enlisting others on behalf of U.S. goals.\"\n\n2007: In light of 9/11 and the war in Iraq, the Bush administration was criticized for placing too much emphasis on a hard power strategy. To counter this hard power strategy, the Center for Strategic and International Studies released the \"Commission on Smart Power\" to introduce the concept of smart power into discussion on which principles should guide the future of U.S. foreign policy in light of 9/11 and the war in Iraq. The report identifies five critical areas of focus for the U.S.: Alliances, Global Development, Public Diplomacy, Economic Integration, and Technology and Innovation. According to the report, these five goals constitute smart foreign policy and will help the United States achieve the goal of \"American preeminence as an agent of good.\"\n\n2009: The Center for Strategic and International Studies, released a second report, \"Investing in a New Multilateralism\", to address the concept of smart power in international releases. This report addressed the United Nations as an instrument of U.S. smart power. By collaborating with the UN, the U.S. can lead the way in reinvigorating multilateralism within in the international community in the 21st century.\n\n2009: Under the Obama administration, smart power became a core principle of his foreign policy strategy. It was popularized by Hillary Clinton during her Senate confirmation hearing on January 13, 2009 for the position of Secretary of State: We must use what has been called smart power---the full range of tools at our disposal---diplomatic, economic, military, political, legal, and cultural---picking the right tool, or combination of tools, for each situation. With smart power, diplomacy will be the vanguard of foreign policy. Both Suzanne Nossel and Joseph Nye were supportive of Clinton's encouragement of smart power, since it would popularize the use of smart power in U.S. foreign policy. That popularization has been accompanied by more frequent use of the term, and David Ignatius describes it as an \"overused and vapid phrase meant to connote the kind of power between hard and soft\".\n\n2010: The \"First Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review (QDDR)\" entitled, \"Leading through Civilian Power\", called for the implementation of a smart power strategy through civilian leadership.\n\n2011: Obama's \"2011 May Speech on the Middle East and North Africa\" called for a smart power strategy, incorporating development, in addition to defense and diplomacy, as the third pillar of his foreign policy doctrine.\n\nThe UK government Strategic Defence and Security Review 2015 was based on a combination of hard power and soft power strategies. Following the Poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal in 2018, the National Security Review described a \"fusion doctrine\", that will combine resources from British intelligence agencies, the British Armed Forces, foreign relations and economic considerations to defeat the UK's enemies.\n\nIn recent years, some scholars have sought to differentiate smart power further from soft power, while also including military posture and other tools of statecraft as part of a broad smart power philosophy. Christian Whiton, a State Department official during the George W. Bush administration, described smart power in a 2013 book, \"\", as: \"the many financial, cultural, rhetorical, economic, espionage-related, and military actions that states can take short of general war to influence political outcomes abroad,\" adding, \"It most crucially should involve a revival of political warfare: the non-violent push of ideas, people, facts, and events with which our adversaries would rather not contend.\" Whiton recalled U.S. political influence activities from the Cold War, including CIA-backed programs like the Congress for Cultural Freedom, and called for adapting these to contemporary challenges to the U.S. posed by China, Iran, and Islamists.\n\nAccording to \"Dealing with Today's Asymmetric Threat to U.S. and Global Security\", a symposium sponsored by CACI, an effective smart power strategy faces multiple challenges in transitioning from smart power as a theory to smart power in practice. Applying smart power today requires great difficulty, since it operates in an environment of asymmetric threats, ranging from cybersecurity to terrorism. These threats exist in a dynamic international environment, adding yet another challenge to the application of smart power strategy. In order to effectively address asymmetric threats arising in a dynamic international environment, the symposium suggests addressing the following factors: rule of law, organizational roadblocks, financing smart power, and strategic communications.\n\nIn order to implement smart power approaches on both a domestic and international level, the United States must develop a legal framework for the use of smart power capabilities. Developing a legal foundation for smart power, however, demands a clear concept of these asymmetric threats, which is often difficult. The cyber domain, for instance, presents an extremely nebulous concept. Hence, the challenge will be conceptualizing asymmetric threats before formulating a legal framework.\n\nThe inability to promote smart power approaches because of organizational failures within agencies presents another obstacle to successful smart power implementation. Agencies often lack either the appropriate authority or resources to employ smart power. The only way to give smart power long-term sustainability is to address these organizational failures and promote the coordination and accessibility of hard and soft power resources.\n\nWith the ongoing financial crisis, the dire need for financial resources presents a critical obstacle to the implementation of smart power. According to Secretary Gates, 'there is a need for a dramatic increase in spending on the civilian instruments of national security---diplomacy, strategic communications, foreign assistance, civic action, and economic reconstruction and development.\" In order to successfully implement smart power, the U.S. budget needs to be rebalanced so that non-military foreign affairs programs receive more funding. Sacrificing defense spending will, however, be met with stalwart resistance.\n\n\"Asymmetries of perception,\" according to the report, are a major obstacle to strategic communications. A long-term smart power strategy will mitigate negative perceptions by discussing the nature of these threats and making a case for action using smart power strategy. The report states that the central theme of our strategic communications campaign should be education of our nation in our values as a democratic nation and in the nature of the threats our nation faces today.\n\nOf all the tools at the disposal of smart power strategists in the United States, experts suggest that the U.N. is the most critical. The Center for Strategic and International Studies issued a report, \"Investing in a New Multilateralism\", in January 2009 to outline the role of the United Nations as an instrument of U.S. smart power strategy. The report suggests that in an increasingly multipolar world, the UN cannot be discarded as outdated and must be regarded as an essential tool to thinking strategically about the new multilateralism that our nation faces. An effective smart power strategy will align the interests of the U.S. and the UN, thereby effectively addressing threats to peace and security, climate change, global health, and humanitarian operations.\n\nAs announced by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in November 2011, the United States will begin to shift its attention to the Asia-Pacific region, making the strategic relationship between the U.S. and China of supreme importance in determining the future of international affairs in the region. The Center for Strategic and International Studies, in \"Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,\" offers recommendations for building a cooperative strategic relationship between the U.S. and China through smart power strategy. Rather than relying on unilateral action, the U.S. and China should combine their smart power resources to promote the global good and enhance the peace and security of the region. The report recommends the following policy objectives: implement an aggressive engagement agenda, launch an action agenda on energy and climate, and institute a new dialogue on finance and economics. Overall, the report suggests that U.S.-Sino relations should be pursued without the black-and-white view of China as either benign or hostile, but rather, as a partner necessary in serving the interests of the U.S. and the region while promoting the global good.\n\nThe Obama administration continually stresses the importance of smart power strategy in relations with the Middle East and especially Turkey due to its increasing leadership role as a regional soft power. As not only an Islamic democratic nation but also the only Muslim member of NATO, Turkey's leverage in the region could inspire other nations to follow in its footsteps. By establishing a cooperative relationship with Turkey and working to clarify misunderstandings through smart power, Turkey could eventually become the bridge between the East and the West. A smart power approach to U.S.-Turkish relations will expand the leadership role of Turkey in the region and increases its strategic importance to NATO.\n\nCondoleezza Rice, Bush's Secretary of State, coined the term \"Transformational Diplomacy\" to denote Bush's policy to promote democracy through a hard power driven strategy. \"Transformational diplomacy\" stands at odds with \"smart power,\" which utilizes hard and soft power resources based on the situation. The Obama administration's foreign policy was based on smart power strategy, attempting to strike a balance between defense and diplomacy.\n\nIn an interview with the Boston Globe, interviewer Anna Mundow, questioned Joseph Nye over the criticism that smart power is the friendly face of American imperialism. By the same token, the Bush doctrine has also been criticized for being \"imperialistic,\" by focusing on American power over partnerships with the rest of the world. Joseph Nye defends smart power by noting that criticism often stems from a misunderstanding of the smart power theory. Nye himself designed the theory to apply to any nation of any size, not just the United States. It was meant to be a more sophisticated method of thinking about power in the context of the information age and post-9/11 world.19 President Obama defined his vision for U.S. leadership as \"not in the spirit of a patron but the spirit of a partner.\"\n\nKen Adelman, in an article entitled \"Not-So-Smart Power,\" argues that there is no correlation between U.S. aid and the ability of America to positively influence events abroad. He points out that the nations who receive the most foreign aid, such as Egypt and Pakistan, are no more in tune with American values than those who receive less or no U.S. foreign aid. Overall, he criticizes the instruments of smart power, such as foreign aid and exchange programs, for being ineffective in achieving American national interests.\n\nIn the application of smart power in U.S. strategy, Ted Galen Carpenter, author of the work \"Smart Power\"', criticizes U.S. foreign policy for failing to question outdated alliances, such as NATO. Carpenter articulated his disapproval of interventionist foreign policy, saying, \"America does not need to be — and should not aspire to be — a combination global policeman and global social worker.\" Rather than utilizing antiquated institutions, the U.S. should rethink certain alliances in arriving at a new vision for the future of American foreign policy. Carpenter fears that America's domestic interests will be sacrificed in favor of global interests through smart power. Essentially, interventionist foreign policies advocated by U.S. smart power strategies undercut domestic liberties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12419905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12419905", "title": "Social defeat", "text": "Social defeat\n\nSocial defeat refers to losing a confrontation among conspecific animals, or any kind of hostile dispute among humans, in either a dyadic or in a group-individual context, potentially generating very significant practical and psychological consequences in terms of control over resources, access to mates and social positions.\n\nResearch on social stress has accumulated a useful body of knowledge, providing perspective on the effects of detrimental social and environmental interaction on the brain. Research and experimentation suffer from many methodological difficulties: usually a lack of ecological validity (similarity with natural conditions and stressors) or are not amenable to scientific investigation (difficult to test and verify).\n\nSocial psychology approaches to human aggression have developed a multitude of perspectives, based on observations of human phenomena like bullying, mobbing, physical and verbal abuse, relational and indirect aggression, etc. Despite the richness of theories developed, the body of knowledge generated has not satisfied scientific requirements of testability and verifiability.\n\nAnimal studies of within-species aggression developed in 2 main branches: A) approaches based on laboratory experiments, on controlled conditions, allowing the measurement of behavioral, endocrine and neurological variables, but with the shortcoming of applying unnatural stressors (such as foot-shocks and restraint stress) in unnatural conditions (laboratory cages rarely approximate native habitats); B) approaches based on observations of animals in naturalistic settings, which avoided artificial environments and unnatural stresses, but usually not allowing the measurement of physiological effects or the manipulation of relevant variables.\n\nIn real life situations, animals (including humans) have to cope with stresses generated within their own species, during their interactions with conspecifics, especially due to recurrent struggles over the control of limited resources, mates and social positions (Bjorkqvist, 2001; Rohde, 2001; Allen & Badcock, 2003).\n\nSocial defeat is a source of chronic stress in animals and humans, capable of causing significant changes in behaviour, brain functioning, physiology, neurotransmitter and hormone levels, and health (Bjorkqvist, 2001; Rohde, 2001; Allen & Badcock, 2003).\n\nThe social defeat approach was originated from animal experiments, using the \"resident-intruder\" paradigm, in which an animal was placed in the cage of another animal or group of animals of the same species, in a manner that allowed a non-lethal conflict.\n\nIf animals are allowed to fight on a single occasion only, it is usually regarded as a model of acute stress; if they are allowed to fight on several different occasions, on different days, consecutive or not, it is regarded as a model of chronic stress. \nAfter the defeat or in the interval between fights, the subordinate animal may also be exposed to threats from the dominant one, by having to stay in a cage or compartment beside or nearby the dominant, exposed to its visual or olfactory cues.\n\nLater, the social defeat approach was also applied to observations of animal within-species aggression, in the wild, which suggested that the hypotheses generated on artificial laboratory settings can also be applied in observed in natural settings, confirming the predictions of the model.\n\nIt has been proposed that animal models of social conflict may be useful for studying a number of mental disorders, including major depression, generalized anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, drug abuse, aggressive psychopathologies, eating disorders and schizophrenia (Bjorkqvist, 2001; Selten & Cantor-Graae, 2005; Rohde, 2001).\n\nThe social defeat model has been extended to include observations of human aggression, bullying, relational aggression, chronic subordination and humiliation. The social defeat model attempts to extend animal studies to include human behaviour as well, in contrast to the social psychology study of aggression, in which comparisons are drawn exclusively from experiments involving humans (Bjorkqvist, 2001; Rohde, 2001).\n\nBullying has interesting parallels with animal models of social defeat, the bully being equivalent to the dominant animal and the victim the subordinate one. At stake are possessions of material objects, money, etc., social position in the group, represented by in-group prestige, and the consequent lack of access to mates, including for socio-sexual behaviors like copulation. Human victims typically experience symptoms like low self-esteem (due to low regard by the group), feelings of depression (due to unworthiness of efforts), social withdrawal (reduced investments in the social environment), anxiety (due to a threatening environment), and they can also be shown to experience a plethora of physiological effects, e.g. increased corticosterone levels, and also a shift towards sympathetic balance in the autonomic nervous system (Bjorkqvist, 2001).\n\nResearch about human aggression, usually conducted by psychologists or social psychologists, resembles to a great extent the research about social defeat and animal aggression, usually conducted by biologists or physiological psychologists. However, there is the problem of the use of different terminologies for similar concepts, which hinders communication between the two bodies of knowledge (Bjorkqvist, 2001).\n\nSimilarly, research on depression has employed similar constructs, such as learned helplessness, although that theory is focused on the perceived inability to escape any sort of negative stimuli rather than on social factors.\n\nSocial defeat is a very potent stressor and can lead to a variety of behavioral effects, like social withdrawal (reduced interactions with conspecifics), lethargy (reduced locomotor activity), reduced exploratory behavior (of both open field and novel objects), anhedonia (reduced reward-related behaviors), decreased socio-sexual behaviors (including decreased attempts to mate and copulate after defeat), various motivational deficits, decreased levels of testosterone (due to a decline in the functionality of the Leydig cells of the testes), increased tendencies to stereotyped behaviours and self-administration of drugs and alcohol (Rygula et alli, 2005; Huhman, 2006).\n\nResearch also implicates that the referred behavioral effects are moderated by neuroendocrine phenomena involving serotonin, dopamine, epinephrine, norepinephrine, and in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, locus ceruleus and limbic systems (Bjorkqvist, 2001; Rygula et alli, 2005; Selten & Cantor-Graae, 2005; Marinia et alli, 2006; Huhman, 2006).\n\nBoth animal and human studies suggest that the social environment has a strong influence on the consequences of stresses. This finding seems to be especially true in the case of social stresses, like social defeat (Bjorkqvist, 2001; Rygula et alli, 2005; de Jong et alli, 2005).\n\nIn animal studies, animals housed collectively showed reduced symptoms after defeat, in comparison with those housed alone; and animals that live in more stable groups (with stable hierarchies, less intra-group aggression) exhibit reduced effects after a defeat, in comparison with those housed in a more unstable group (de Jong et alli, 2005). In separate studies, defeat behaviors can be modulated by acetylcholine (Smith et al., 2015).\n\nIn human studies, individuals with greater support seem to be protected against excessive neuroendocrine activation, thereby reducing the adverse effects of stresses in general, and especially stresses of social origin. \nThis apparent confusion, in which social defeat generates behavioral and neuroendocrine effects, both of which depending on social contextual variables, raises the question of how to interpret this data. A useful concept is the concept of “causal chain”, in which recurrent evolutionary events, in this case intra-specific competition, generates selective pressures that last for thousands of generations, influencing a whole species. This way physiological phenomena may evolve, in this case the referred neuro-endocrine phenomena, to facilitate adaptive patterns of action by individuals, in this case the referred behavioral effects. According to this framework, selective pressures generated by intra-specific competition can be considered as the ultimate cause, the neuroendocrine phenomena can be considered to be the proximate causes (sometimes also called mechanisms or moderators) and the observed behavioral alterations are considered the effects (the end events in the causal chain)(Gilbert et alli, 2002; Allen & Badcock, 2003; Rygula et alli, 2005).\n\nSome authors, for example Randolph Nesse, warn us that patterns of behavior commonly considered inappropriate or even pathological may well have adaptive value. According to this view, several authors propose that behaviors considered abnormal may be in fact part of an adaptive response to stressors in modern or at least in old environments, for example social stressors from chronic subordination or interpersonal conflicts (Gilbert et alli, 2002; Allen & Badcock, 2003). Evolutionary psychology provides several possible explanations for why humans typically respond to social dynamics in the way that they do, including possible functions of self-esteem in relation to dominance hierarchies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48811332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48811332", "title": "St. Louis Southwestern 336", "text": "St. Louis Southwestern 336\n\nThe St. Louis Southwestern Railway (Cotton Belt Route) Steam Locomotive #336 is a historic railroad steam locomotive, located at the Arkansas Railroad Museum in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. It is a Class D3 2-6-0 Mogul-style locomotive, built in 1909 by the Baldwin Locomotive Works in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She served on the St. Louis Southwestern Railway (aka the Cotton Belt Route) until 1947, and served industrial customers until 1963. It was placed on display in Lewisville, Arkansas until 1994, when it was donated to the museum. It is the last remaining 330-series locomotive (of ten) used by the Cotton Belt.\n\nThe locomotive was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "17571087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17571087", "title": "Sylvia Browne bibliography", "text": "Sylvia Browne bibliography\n\nSylvia Browne was an American author and self-described psychic medium whose work was frequently discredited and criticized. She nevertheless authored over 40 books, many of which were staples on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list.\n"}
{"id": "11976532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11976532", "title": "TOP500", "text": "TOP500\n\nThe TOP500 project ranks and details the 500 most powerful non-distributed computer systems in the world. The project was started in 1993 and publishes an updated list of the supercomputers twice a year. The first of these updates always coincides with the International Supercomputing Conference in June, and the second is presented at the ACM/IEEE Supercomputing Conference in November. The project aims to provide a reliable basis for tracking and detecting trends in high-performance computing and bases rankings on HPL, a portable implementation of the high-performance LINPACK benchmark written in Fortran for distributed-memory computers.\n\nChina currently dominates the list with 229 supercomputers, leading the second place (United States) by a record margin of 121. Since June 2018, the American Summit is the world's most powerful supercomputer, reaching 143.5 petaFLOPS on the LINPACK benchmarks.\n\nThe TOP500 list is compiled by Jack Dongarra of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Erich Strohmaier and Horst Simon of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL), and from 1993 until his death in 2014, Hans Meuer of the University of Mannheim, Germany.\n\nIn the early 1990s, a new definition of supercomputer was needed to produce meaningful statistics. After experimenting with metrics based on processor count in 1992, the idea arose at the University of Mannheim to use a detailed listing of installed systems as the basis. In early 1993, Jack Dongarra was persuaded to join the project with his LINPACK benchmarks. A first test version was produced in May 1993, partly based on data available on the Internet, including the following sources:\n\n\nThe information from those sources was used for the first two lists. Since June 1993, the TOP500 is produced bi-annually based on site and vendor submissions only.\n\nSince 1993, performance of the ranked position has grown steadily in accordance with Moore's law, doubling roughly every 14 months. , \"Summit\" was fastest with an Rpeak of 187.6593 PFLOPS. For comparison, this is over 1,432,513 times faster than the Connection Machine CM-5/1024 (1,024 cores), which was the fastest system in November 1993 (twenty-five years prior) with an Rpeak of 131.0 GFLOPS.\n\nIn June 2016, a Chinese computer made the top based on SW26010 processors, a new, radically modified, model in the Sunway (or ShenWei) line.\n\n, TOP500 supercomputers are now all 64-bit, mostly based on x86-64 CPUs (Intel EMT64 and AMD AMD64 instruction set architecture), with few exceptions (all based on reduced instruction set computing (RISC) architectures) including 15 supercomputers based on Power Architecture used by IBM POWER microprocessors, six SPARC (all with Fujitsu-designed SPARC-chips, one of which—the K computer—surprisingly made the top in 2011 without a GPU, currently ranked 16th, while only dropping to 3rd on the HPCG list), and two, seemingly related, Chinese designs: the ShenWei-based (ranked 11 in 2011, ranked 158th in November 2016) and Sunway SW26010-based ranked 1 in 2016, making up the remainder (another non-US design is PEZY-SC, while it is an accelerator paired with Intel's Xeon). Before the ascendance of 32-bit x86 and later 64-bit x86-64 in the early 2000s, a variety of RISC processor families made up most TOP500 supercomputers, including RISC architectures such as SPARC, MIPS, PA-RISC, and Alpha.\n\nIn recent years heterogeneous computing, mostly using Nvidia's graphics processing units (GPU) as coprocessors, has become a popular way to reach a better performance per watt ratio and higher absolute performance; it is almost required for good performance and to make the top (or top 10), with some exceptions, such as the mentioned SPARC computer without any coprocessors. An x86-based coprocessor, Xeon Phi, has also been used.\n\nAll the fastest supercomputers in the decade since the Earth Simulator supercomputer have used operating systems based on Linux. , all the listed supercomputers (100% of the performance share) use an operating system based on the Linux kernel.\nSince November 2015, no computer on the list runs Windows. In November 2014, Windows Azure cloud computer was no longer on the list of fastest supercomputers (its best rank was 165 in 2012), leaving the Shanghai Supercomputer Center's \"Magic Cube\" as the only Windows-based supercomputer on the list, until it also dropped off the list. It had been ranked 436 in its last appearance on the list released in June 2015, while its best rank was 11 in 2008.\n\nIt has been well over a decade since MIPS-based systems (meaning used as host CPUs) dropped entirely off the list but the \"Gyoukou\" supercomputer that jumped to 4th place in November 2017 (after a huge upgrade) has MIPS as a small part of the coprocessors. Use of 2,048-core coprocessors (plus 8× 6-core MIPS, for each, that \"no longer require to rely on an external Intel Xeon E5 host processor\") make the supercomputer much more energy efficient than the other top 10 (i.e. it is 5th on Green500 and other such \"ZettaScaler-2.2\"-based systems take first three spots). At 19.86 million cores, it is by far the biggest system: almost double that of the best manycore system in the TOP500, the Chinese Sunway TaihuLight, currently ranked 3rd.\n\nLegend:\n\nNumbers below represent the number of computers in the TOP500 that are in each of the listed countries.\n\n\nBy number of systems :\n\nNote, all operating systems of the TOP500 systems use Linux, but Linux above is \"generic\" Linux.\n\nIn November 2014, it was announced that the United States was developing two new supercomputers to exceed China's Tianhe-2 in its place as world's fastest supercomputer. The two computers, Sierra and Summit, will each exceed Tianhe-2's 55 peak petaflops. Summit, the more powerful of the two, will deliver 150–300 peak petaflops. On 10 April 2015, US government agencies banned selling chips, from Nvidia, to supercomputing centers in China as \"acting contrary to the national security ... interests of the United States\"; and Intel Corporation from providing Xeon chips to China due to their use, according to the US, in researching nuclear weaponsresearch to which US export control law bans US companies from contributing\"The Department of Commerce refused, saying it was concerned about nuclear research being done with the machine.\"\n\nOn 29 July 2015, President Obama signed an executive order creating a National Strategic Computing Initiative calling for the accelerated development of an exascale (1000 petaflop) system and funding research into post-semiconductor computing.\n\nIn June 2016, Japanese firm Fujitsu announced at the International Supercomputing Conference that its future exascale supercomputer will feature processors of its own design that implement the ARMv8 architecture. The Flagship2020 program, by Fujitsu for RIKEN plans to break the exaflops barrier by 2020 (and \"it looks like China and France have a chance to do so and that the United States is contentfor the moment at leastto wait until 2023 to break through the exaflops barrier.\") These processors will also implement extensions to the ARMv8 architecture equivalent to HPC-ACE2 that Fujitsu is developing with ARM Holdings.\n\nInspur has been one of the largest HPC system manufacturer based out of Jinan, China. As of May 2017, Inspur has become the third manufacturer to have manufactured 64-way system a record which has been previously mastered by IBM and HP. The company has registered over $10B in revenues and have successfully provided a number of HPC systems to countries outside China such as Sudan, Zimbabwe, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela. Inspur was also a major technology partner behind both the supercomputers from China, namely Tianhe-2 and Taihu which lead the top 2 positions of Top500 supercomputer list up to November 2017. Inspur and Supermicro released a few platforms aimed at HPC using GPU such as SR-AI and AGX-2 in May 2017.\n\nSome major systems are not listed on the list. The largest example is the NCSA's Blue Waters which publicly announced the decision not to participate in the list because they do not feel it accurately indicates the ability for any system to be able to do useful work. Other organizations decide not to list systems for security and/or commercial competitiveness reasons. Additional purpose-built machines that are not capable or do not run the benchmark were not included, such as RIKEN MDGRAPE-3 and MDGRAPE-4.\n\nIBM Roadrunner is no longer on the list (nor is any other using the Cell coprocessor, or PowerXCell).\n\nAlthough Itanium-based systems reached second rank in 2004, none now remain.\n\nSimilarly (non-SIMD-style) vector processors (NEC-based such as the Earth simulator that was fastest in 2002) have also fallen off the list. Also the Sun Starfire computers that occupied many spots in the past now no longer appear.\n\nThe last non-Linux computers on the listthe two AIX onesrunning on POWER7 (in July 2017 ranked 494th and 495th originally 86th and 85th), dropped off the list in November 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2196042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2196042", "title": "The Enchanted World", "text": "The Enchanted World\n\nThe Enchanted World was a series of twenty-one books published in the 1980s. Each book focused on different aspects of mythology or folklore, and all were released by Time Life Books. Their overall editor was Ellen Phillips and their primary consultant was Tristram Potter Coffin, a Guggenheim Fellowship Award-winning University of Pennsylvania Professor Emeritus of English.\n\nThe volumes in the series were known for their art and the extensive research used in their stories. The books often overlap; for example, while King Arthur and his knights only have one book completely devoted to them, \"Fall of Camelot,\" they often appear in other books. Half of \"Legends of Valor\" is about them, and they appear in \"Wizards and Witches,\" \"Fairies and Elves,\" \"Dwarfs,\" \"Spells and Bindings,\" and \"Giants and Ogres.\"\n\nA unique part of the series was that its books were written as stories, taking place from an \"in the universe\" perspective, presenting its subjects as real people, places, and things. Related to such things having once been real, a common thread through several of them was its documentation of the alleged decline of magical things from \"when the world was young\" to the modern day. The subjects—dragons, dwarfs, giants—are presented as being potent and strong at the dawn of time, but magical creatures grow weaker and eventually disappear as humans spread and demystify the world, though there is always the promise that the magic will return once again.\n\nChristendom is often related to the decline. Though \"The Enchanted World\" describes it as humankind's greatest shield against those magics and beings of magic that would prove hostile to it, it proved detrimental even to good magic as people ceased to believe in the old gods in favor of Christ. According to the series, this was because Christianity was centered around a god of reason and that it promised a clearly defined universe of order and stability, a universe where there could be only one god. Magic could hardly thrive under such circumstances. It continued to exist either in opposition to Christianity or, more often, in connection to in-between places and in-between things. The series states that magic had always had a strong connection to things that were neither one thing nor another because as neither one thing nor another, such things could escape definition and be more than what they appeared.\n\nThe popularity of the \"Enchanted World\" series was followed by the \"Mysteries of the Unknown\" series.\n\n\"In order of publication:\"\n\nBrendan Lehane's book opens stating that in the earliest days the world was not yet fully ordered and the process of creation not yet completed. Since reality was fluid, it was relatively easy for mighty wizards such as Finland's Väinämöinen, Taliesin, Manannán mac Lir, Math the Ancient and Gwydion to cast their magic. Magic in those days was almost instinctual and inborn; it was an art. Those days ended with Merlin, the last and greatest of the old wizards. Famous for his aiding King Arthur and the realm of Camelot when he withdrew from the world, magic itself began to withdraw and the wizards retreated from human sight.\n\nAs a result of Christianity clearly setting and defining the world, the use of magic became much more difficult and even dangerous. It was difficult because it was no longer an art to be understood instinctively but a science that required years of study. It was dangerous because to challenge the order of reality was to challenge God the author of that reality, and, more often than not, the only being willing to aid a wizard in such an effort was Satan himself. Some wizards earned their powers legitimately and used them responsibly; Roger Bacon is one example, as revealed in one tale. Others, such as Michael Scot, gambled their souls by attending the Scholomance, the school of black magic. Still others, such as Faustus, took the quick and easy way and made deals with the Devil, always with grisly results.\n\nConcurrent with the scholar wizards were their more humble cousins, the witches. Unlike their male counterparts, their magic retained links to the natural world. Some witches were good and were called white witches, cunning folk, and fairy doctors. They tended to be good Christians and they used their powers for good; their spells were often indistinguishable from prayers. The White Paternoster is just one example. They were needed to counterbalance and oppose their evil sisters who used their powers for the sake of greed, revenge, or even just cruel pleasure. They more often than not placed themselves in the service of the devil and served as his perfect followers. The Witches' Sabbath was their chief pleasure.\n\nLehane closes that as time marched on and witches retreated from humankind, their magic was forgotten and relegated to stories for scaring children. Even so, their ancestors, the sleeping wizards, are still alive and waiting for the time to awaken.\n\nThe book contains 143 pages and is divided into the following three chapters, which each contain sub-chapters and side bar stories.\n\n\n\"Dragons\" opens recounting the legends of Apep, Tiamat, Jörmungandr, Nidhoggr, and Typhon. Born before time began, these creatures were sons of chaos, and so the gods did battle with them, for only when they were beaten could order prevail and the universe be born. Across various cultures, the same told was told with Set and Ra, Marduk, Thor, and Zeus playing the same role. The gods ultimately did prevail and these cosmic dragons were destroyed but the fight was not yet over because they left descendants with whom mortals would do battle. Cadmus's dragon was one example.\n\nChinese dragons and other Asian dragons were an exception to all this; unlike their western cousins, they never lost their semi-divine status and, again unlike them, they were mostly benevolent. The creator goddess Nu Kua was herself partly dragon, and the Emperor of China sat on the Dragon Throne. The Dragon Kings governed wind and water and for the rain they sent the Chinese people loved them.\n\nNo such love was present for European dragons. While not always evil as seen with the Laidly Worm, dragons were nearly always a threat, and even when they were not, they guarded treasures that man sought, whether gold or water or something else. They had to be destroyed and Christianity, \"the hammer of the dragon race,\" proved one of the most powerful weapons against them because it promised a world in which dragons, creatures of appetite, could have no place. Some saints killed their dragons, such as Saint Margaret, while other saints, such as Carantoc, tamed theirs. Regardless of the good intentions of men like Carantoc, however, peaceful coexistence between man and dragon was almost impossible as the tale of Saint Martha and Tarasque shows. The dragonslayers rose up to destroy them as well. Saint George is the most famous example. A dragonslayer could expect to win gold, women, and everlasting glory, but it was usually a quest for survival. In the end, humans civilized the world and drove dragons to extinction.\n\nThe book contains 143 pages and is divided into the following four chapters, which each contain sub-chapters and side bar stories.\n\n\nUnlike other books in the series, this text does not concentrate on the decline of magic, though it does state that in the beginning, beings of pure magic (not exactly gods but more than mortal) freely intermingled with mortals (the friendship of Arawn and Pwyll is one example) only to separate themselves later on. They were known to the Norse as the Alfar or elves in English and sometimes as fairies, a word that derives from the Latin fatum/fate and fatare/enchant. Fairie correctly refers to their lands or magic. In contrast to mortals, beings who sought order, these magical beings were said to be very fickle and unpredictable. Even members of the usually good Seelie Court were prone to mischief.\n\nThe chief classifications were the trooping and solitary fairies the aristocrats and peasants of their kind. Among the Trooping fairies are mentioned the Sidhe, the Tuatha Dé Danann and the children of the Dagda. Though friendly enough to their mortal counterparts, they eventually withdrew from their sight and were replaced in mortal interactions by their smaller cousins. Leshy, polevik, and other nature spirits continued to haunt the wilds of the world. They were all very unpredictable; some were friendly to humans and used their powers to help them with their household chores while others were cruel and delighted in tormenting mortals.\n\nInevitably, the fairies weakened in the wake of humanity. This was in changelings; a fairy mother would exchange her child with a human child, perhaps to add the vigor of humanity to a weakening race. Also, the friendly meetings which had characterized their relationship with mortals grew increasingly rare. Husbands of swan maidens often won their wives only through deceit. True love was possible between fairies and mortals but, as in the case of Melusine, the love failed when the mortal husband broke the wife's trust.\n\nThe book contains 143 pages and is divided into the following four chapters, which each contain sub-chapters.\n\n\nThis book about ghosts opens starting with one of the many ghost stories contained throughout the book. A short excerpt, \"Late one spring night in the last century, a certain Englishman found himself, to his astonishment, standing in the garden outside his house. It was quite bewildering. He remembered falling asleep in his bed, but he had no memory of waking and walking out the door. Yet here he was, shivering in the chill, his bare feet buried in rain-soaked grass. Another surprise awaited him: when he tried the door, it proved to be locked.\"\n\nThe book contains 143 pages and is divided into the following four chapters, which each contain sub-chapters.\n\n\nWritten by Brendan Lehane, \"Legends of Valor\" centers primarily on Cúchulainn and the world of the Ulster Cycle, and later on King Arthur and the Matter of Britain. Other heroes briefly mentioned are Perseus, Sigurd, and Roland from Greek myth, Volsunga saga, and the Matter of France/Song of Roland, respectively.\n\nIn detailing the life of Cuchulain, Lehane writes that in the early world, tribes needed champions to protect them and lead them in battle. The king could not risk his life, so in his place a hero fought and were the jewels in a king's crown. It emphasizes that heroes were often born to gods and mortal Queens—it was not given to peasants to sire or spawn heroes. Such men were warriors and were expected to be fierce and savage. Their lives were short, bound to vows of vengeance and the \"cruel demands of honor.\" The life of Irish hero Cuchulain is retold, and with it, how while there were other men of the Red Branch, he proved himself the greatest champion of Conchobar mac Nessa, King of Ulster. Cuchulain, the son of Lugh fought bravely for his king and became a warrior without peer, although he was killed by Maeve who tricked him into breaking his various vows or geis. After Cuculain's death, Ireland was plunged into chaos, though later, as the Fenian cycle told, order was restored. Leading men milder and more civilized, but just as valiant, High King Cormac Mac Art and his Fianna protected Ireland from invasion. Even there conflicting vows could speel doom as when Grianne betrayed her husband the king by sleeping with his champion Diarmuid.\n\nThe rest of the story centers on the \"Brotherhood of the Round Table.\" Heroes still lived but they were different from their forebears, most notably in the moralizing effects of chivalry. A knight was expected to be kind to women, to show mercy to defeated foes, and to refuse no plea for help. Horses also gave men greater mobility. Under the salvific influence of Christianity, Arthur and his men were the finest heroes in all Christendom and beyond. Despite the Christian kingdom of Camelot being at peace, such men were needed as giants, dragons, and witches made Britain a place of wonder and danger. Some magical beings, such as the Lady of the Lake, proved friends. However, those who would harm the innocent were kept at bay due to Arthur's Knights, chief among them Lancelot, the Lady's son. Unfortunately, Lancelot's love for Guinevere, Arthur's Queen, would bring down Camelot which was already grievously exhausted by the Grail Quest. In searching for the Holy Grail, the Knights of the Round Table did prove themselves the very best heroes of all times but the loss of so many good men in the quest crippled Camelot and left it vulnerable to decay from within. Arthur's bastard son Mordred, in the end, destroyed the perfect world his father tried to create, though it is promised that one day, Arthur will return.\n\nThe book contains 143 pages and is divided into the following four chapters, which each contain sub-chapters.\n\n\nThis book opens with one of many stories in the book about creatures of the night. The first story is an old Danish tale. Following is an excerpt, \"Within this hall, hearths and torches blazed warm and bright, and drinking horns passed freely among the warriors of the Scylding clan; bards intoned the praises of their chieftain, Hrothgar, the valorous King; harpists sang of warmth and light. Outside the hall, however, solitary in the cold and dark, another kind of being walked. Although manlike, that being was no man. Huge and hairy, it shambled through the night mists of fell and fen, its claws scrabbling from time to time in the dirt as it tore at its hapless prey - hares, ferrets and other small beasts.\"\n\nThe book contains 141 pages and is divided into the following four chapters, which each contain sub-chapters.\n\n\n\"Water Spirits\" opens with the story of man who saved the life of a mermaid who promptly blessed him with the power to heal and to break witchcraft and cursed him so that every generation one man from his family would drown. This was done to illustrate people's fear of the sea as a mysterious and fickle place that could from one moment give life and in the other death. Water was hailed as the source of life; the Hindus worshipped the Ganges under the name of Ganga, Mimir's well gave Odin his wisdom, the Nile and the Jordan River built civilizations, and everywhere people sought the Fountain of Youth. \"Water Spirits\" then points out that the creation myths of many cultures imagine the universe coming out of the watery deep and that many cultures recalled a time when the world was washed clean of sinners by the Great Flood.\n\nHumans began taking the initiative in sea quests, however, as seen with Jason and his Argonauts. He was faithful to the gods and led a crew of heroes across the Mediterranean, Aegean, and Black Seas. Regardless of his initial faithfulness to the gods, those same gods destroyed Jason but turned the Argo into a constellation. That was a testimony to how fickle the gods could be, because sea gods were viewed in relation to their seas. Poseidon, for example, was as arbitrary as the enchanted seas and magic islands he ruled. On the contrary, the kinder Ea came from the calmer Persian Gulf to teach men civilization and agriculture whilst the consistently cruel Rán ruled the volatile North Sea. The gods would lose their strength, however.\n\nIn Christian times, sailors no longer worshipped the sea gods but still lived in fear of the sea's power. For example, ships were still launched on Woden's Day/Wednesday and not, for example, on Thor's Day for fear of storms and thunder. Figureheads replaced the \"oculi,\" or eyes, of Greek Triremes, but the function remained the same; keep a lookout for evil. Anointing a ship with wine replaced the pagan custom on smearing ships with animal and even human blood. There were limits, as seen with how Christian priests were rarely let on board for fear of angering the old gods.\n\nLakes and rivers held their powers too in the form of Nixes and Undines. The Japanese told of Urashima and Europeans of selkies and mermaids; daughters of foam-born Aphrodite, they were carved on churches as warning against lust.\n\nThe book contains 143 pages and is divided into the following four chapters, which each contain sub-chapters.\n\n\n\"Magical Beasts\" opens with a recounting of how early in humanity's existence the world was locked in an Ice Age. Humans feared the animals and worshipped the cave bear. Time passed and the cave bear perished, but other beast gods remained such as Cernunnos. The gods of Egypt were beast men and the Greeks spoke of their gods disguising themselves as animals. There are other examples such as Chiron; a centaur, he was hailed as the divine beast. There came the day, however, that Pan, the goat god, died and the beast gods's decline began. This was seen in how animalistic Fomorians of Ireland had lost their magic and were forced to ruling with brute force. They and Balor, their king, were routed by his grandson Lugh of the Long Hand, champion of the ascendant Tuatha de Danaan. Magic was dying as Europe was Christianized, but there were other places in the world such as Asia where magic yet held sway and dog men, monopods, and Blemmyes.\n\nIt also recounts that many flying animals, both mundane and magical, commanded respect for reason that they were able to escape the mundane world by flight. Pegasus, the roc, simurghs, firebirds, the phoenix, and even ordinary birds like the raven in mythology and the robin were revered. Other flying animals were also known such as griffins, harpies and tengus.\n\nOf all magical beasts, however, the unicorn was the most respected. It epitomised beauty and purity but courage as well because it would never let itself be taken alive. Its cousins included China’s ki-lin and the Persian karkadann which, unlike their European counterpart, respectively embodied only gentility or ferocity. All, however, could be tamed by maidens. Unicorn horns also had the power to cure poison and disease; in their desire to obtain the horns, humans drove unicorns to extinction.\n\nThe text mentions other beasts such as the manticore, mermecolion, barometz, basilisk, and peryton.\n\nThe book contains 143 pages and is divided into the following three chapters, which each contain sub-chapters.\n\n\nDwarfs (actual spelling used in book - this is the traditional spelling - \"dwarves\" comes from \"The Hobbit\" author J.R.R. Tolkien and was an intentional change of spelling) opens with the \"Younger (\"Prose\") Edda,\" a narration of Norse mythology. It opens with Norse dwarves and tells how the race began soon after Odin and his Aesir killed Ymir, using his flesh to make the earth. The maggots that crawled from the flesh became dwarfs. Corpse grey and subterranean troglodytes, the gods tended to look down on them but the dwarfs, brash and brazen, knew that when Aesir needed weapons or wanted luxuries that the dwarfs by their magical craftsmanship alone could provide what was needed. While author Tim Appenzeller admits that such tales contain much fiction, they still contain a grain of truth.\n\nHowever, in time the dwarfs lost the ability, or the will, to stand as equals to the gods and walked among mortals. With the pagan gods dead and \"the\" God and His Church dominant, a new world had dawned. Even so, the dwarf kings such as Herla or Laurin of the Tyrol's Mountains were not afraid and outshone their cavedwelling ancestors in splendor. The dwarfs adapted well to Christian Europe, befriending mortals; Alberich, for example, was famous for befriending King Otnit of Lombardy and going with him to Syria to help him win an exotic pagan princess for a bride. The tale of Elidor is also recounted.\n\nThe dwarfs' decline is further explored with the dwarfish peasantry. They were friendly towards mortal peasants with whom they shared parallel lives and they often helped each other just as their respective kings did. However, as humans grew stronger, forming centralized states, large cities, roads, and factories, and as the dwarfs's own magic began to fail them, the fragile ties of friendship began to unravel and most dwarfs left the mortal world. Those that remained, abandoned by their fellows suffered a diaspora and placed themselves at mortals's mercy. They went on to become household spirits slavishly serving as domestic help of their particular mortals, though even there they would go into retreat. The last sightings of dwarfs concerned the Knockers, beings that lived in mines and watched over miners. While, the text says, miners would give them food and drink; these were offerings, not rewards. Tim Appenzeller goes on to speculate that knockers are just the most visible members of hidden dwarf kingdoms. While some of them might be recent dwarf refugees from the outside world, some of them might have always lived there, \"awaiting the day when their earth-shaping skills will once again dazzle mortals and gods alike.\"\n\nThe book contains 141 pages and is divided into the following four chapters, which each contain sub-chapters.\n\n\nOn magical spells.\n\n\n\"Giants and Ogres\" opens by stating that at the dawn of time, the giants were the mightiest of beings, creatures whom even the gods feared. It cites the legends of Og, Orion, Cronus, and Ymir, and shows that in those earliest of days, giants were indeed wielders of incredible size and strength. However, these \"princes of the cosmos\" were also superior to the gods (their children) in authority, wisdom, and magic. In fact, it was from the giants that the Greek and Norse gods had to wrest their dominion. Even after, as was seen in the Northlands where the giants held to their power the longest, the gods looked to the giants as equals, beings to whom they would turn in search of wisdom.\n\nHowever, as the \"first world\" ended and they lost their equality with the gods, giants assimilated into mortal society. Some, such as Bran the Blessed, went on to become kings and heroes, worthy heirs of their ancestors. Others befriended and watched over the peasantry; some giantesses even used their magic as midwives for their tiny neighbors. However, as the giants's decline accelerated, they grew increasingly hostile to humans. They became enemies of humanity, using their superior strength and their magic to attack the younger race that was taking over their world. Their cousins, the trolls and the ogres, became outright predators raping human women and eating human men. Examples such as the giant who had no heart in his body or of the giant who faced Jack atop the beanstalk (illustrated by the talented Barry Moser, and his company, Pennyroyal Press) are cited.\n\nBy the end of their existence, when men like King Arthur and Charlemagne ruled, the giants were totally defeated. While there remained a few wise and noble giants such as Ferragus, who battled Roland, they were the exceptions. Most had shrunk in size to the point that they were only slightly larger than humans. Worse, the giants—beings whose wisdom even the gods had once envied—became degenerate cretins, who could be bested by mere children's tricks. Though the giants disappeared, the common folk never forgot them, they remembered the great monuments they had built, such as Giant's Causeway, and the Long Man of Wilmington, as illustrated by Willi Glasauer.\n\n\nTales and beliefs about the adventures of explorers, heroes, and damsels.\n\n\nAbout Mythological places\n\n\nBrendan Lehane's \"Book of Christmas\" opens with a brief retelling of the Nativity story told in the Gospels of Luke and Mark. It recounts Mary and Joseph going to Bethlehem and the birth of Jesus Christ but states that the pattern was already set. The fact that the birth of Jesus, the Sun of Righteousness, is celebrated in December is no accident. There are many winter festivals. Most people worshipped the sun as a god and so were afraid when winter came and it seemed that the lifegiving sun grew weak; thus they celebrated the Solstice, the winter day when the weakening sun regained its strength. In fact, many Christmas traditions have their roots in pre-Christian traditions but it was the birth of Jesus that made a season of fear into a season of hope.\n\nSuch fears are mentioned in tales of animal and even human sacrifice meant to appease the pagan gods such as Odin in hopes of surviving winter. Christmas was also said to be the time of the dead; as it was the time when the whole world seemed to die and was an undefined in between time, it was only right the ghosts and monsters rise up against mortals. Similarly, the Wild Hunt and its various leaders are recounted, various heathen deities such as Berchta and Gwyn ap Nudd being cast out by their former worshippers in favor of the Christian God whose mortal birth those worshippers celebrated.\n\nHowever, while winter could be terrifying, Lehane asserts that most Christians were not afraid. They celebrated a topsy-turvy Christmastide with mummers and plays and feasts led by the Abbot of Misrule. Christmas was a time filled with old magic when animals could talk and nature spirits abounded, but followers of the new religion saw nothing strange in keeping their ancestors' pagan traditions alive. Their faith was not the abolition, but rather the fulfillment, of their old rituals because with Jesus, the rituals meant to hold back winter's darkness were vindicated. Lehane states, \"In the Child born at Bethlehem, they had the promise of spring in the heart of midwinter, the divine gift of a bright, cleansing flame to drive away the dark.\"\n\n\nThe book is 143 pages long. It is divided into seven chapters. Each chapter deals with a different person in the life of King Arthur.\n\n1. Arthur (pg.8)\n\nArthur's father, Uther Pendragon sees Igraine, the beautiful wife of Gorlois, the Duke of Cornwall. He desires her and asks for help from the Wizard, Prophet and Enchanter Merlin. Merlin promises to do this in exchange for any child that may be conceived from the union. Merlin enchants Uther to look like Gorlois and Uther has his way with Igraine. Nine months later, Arthur is born and taken away by Merlin. He is raised in secret in Wales until the age of fifteen. During a tournament in London, Arthur, acting as a squire, while searching for a sword for the knight he serves, finds the Sword in the Stone in a church courtyard and pulls it out, thereby proving to the world that he is the rightful heir to the throne of England. Even with this heavenly mandate, Arthur still is forced to defeat many other armies in battle in order to win the throne.\n\n2. Morgause (pg.20)\n\nIgraine and Lord Gorlois had had three daughters before Lord Gorlois died. These daughters knew that Arthur was their half-brother. Arthur, though, was unaware. The eldest of the three daughters, Morgause, travelled to Camelot, where Arthur fell in love with her. Merlin prophesied that if Arthur slept with Morgause that the child that would come of it would destroy England and kill Arthur. Arthur ignored this counsel and took Morgause anyway. She then became pregnant and left before Arthur was aware of it. The child that he fathered that evening was Mordred.\n\n3. Guinevere (pg.36)\n\nGuinevere was the daughter of Lord Leodegrain. Arthur fell in love with her and married her. During the wedding feast, Guinevere asked Merlin to perform some magic for her and the guests as entertainment. At first he declined, but then later created an illusion that entertained, but also upset many. After the spell was complete, Merlin told all that his act of casting magic had alerted the Old Ones who were now looking at and paying attention to King Arthur and his court. Having the attention of the Old Ones is something that is not preferred. It can bring a lot of pain.\n\n4. Morgan (pg.56)\n\nAll of Gorlois and Igraine's three daughters hated Arthur, but Morgan, the youngest, hated him the most. But she hid her hate well. Arthur knew neither that she was his sister nor that she hated him. She and her husband came to live with Arthur in Camelot, where her husband worked as one of Arthur's knights. Morgan, though, was very beautiful, and many of the knights chose to be close to her. One day, Arthur was kidnapped by a knight who was having an affair with Morgan. Before the fight, Morgan had stolen Arthur's sword Caliburn and had given it to her lover. She then also gave Arthur a cursed copy of his own sword. During the fight, the cursed sword slowed Arthur down and took away enough of his strength that he was about to lose the fight. But the Lady of the Lake arrived, magically pulled the sword from the hand of his enemy, and returned it to Arthur. Arthur, who won the fight, also became aware of Morgan's hate for him. Nevertheless, Morgan tried to kill Arthur several other times, unsuccessfully.\n\n5. Lancelot (pg.74)\n\nAt birth, Lancelot's name was Galahad, but after his father was killed and his father's castle destroyed, he was taken and raised by the Lady of the Lake. This was where he received the name Lancelot. He is also sometimes referred to as the \"Fair Foundling\" and \"Lancelot du Lac.\" He was the greatest of all knights. No one was his equal.\n\nHe was presented to Arthur when he was eighteen by the faeries. Arthur took him in and trained him to be a knight. Lancelot and Guinevere though fell in love at first sight and they had a secret affair that lasted for years. Morgan, Arthur's half-sister, found out about this affair and informed the King about it.\n\nLancelot had a son with another woman and gave him the name Galahad, which had been his own birth name.\n\n6. Mordred (pg.90)\n\nMordred was unaware for a long time that his father was Arthur. He came with his mother Morgause and lived in Camelot, where he eventually became one of Arthur's knights. During one travel, Mordred and Lancelot met an old man who prophesied to Mordred that he would kill his own father, Arthur, destroy the knights of the round table, and kill the old man as well, but that his father, Arthur, would also kill him. This is how Mordred found out that Arthur was his father. Mordred grew so angry that he drew his sword and killed the old man instantly. Lancelot felt like killing Mordred for his cruelty, but chose not to.\n\nMordred eventually found out about the affair between Lancelot and Guinevere, and thus, he followed Lancelot and Guinevere and found a place where they were sleeping. In consequence, Mordred brought many knights there to act as witnesses of the affair. Lancelot fought his way out and left Camelot, but Guinevere was taken and arrested. Arthur was law-bound to punish his wife and the law demanded that she be burned at the stake.\n\nThe next day, many knights had left Camelot, as everyone had loved Guinevere, and her execution sentence seemed so unjust that the round table was broken. Many knights abandoned their brotherhood. The two knights who were ordered to tie her to the stake and burn her refused to wear their armor to do it. They did not agree with the sentence either, and refused to obey it as knights. But as the fires were lit, a band of rebel knights, led by Lancelot, burst into Camelot, killed the men who had been ordered to execute Guinevere, and took Guinevere away to safety.\n\n7. Gawain (pg.118)\n\nThe brother of the two knights slain by Lancelot was Gawain. He had been a knight to King Arthur for years and was one of Arthur's most trusted allies. Gawain's anger for Lancelot was deep and insatiable. Nothing would end his anger except the death of Lancelot. Arthur, who now controlled many fewer knights than before, could not risk losing his greatest ally, so, Arthur and his remaining troops camped around the stronghold where Lancelot now lived in France. Guinevere had long since been returned to Camelot after Lancelot vowed to all that no affair had ever taken place. Guinevere was safe because of Lancelot's lie, but Gawain's anger was still demanded that Lancelot die. The siege lasted weeks. During the siege, Arthur received a note that said that Mordred had told the people that Arthur had died in battle and that Mordred was now King. The note also said that Mordred had vowed to take Guinevere as his wife.\n\nArthur immediately returned to Camelot with all of his forces. There was a great battle in which Gawain, Arthur and Mordred were slain. Mordred killed Arthur and as he died, Arthur's stroke also killed his son Mordred.\n\n\n\n\nCreation myths and folklore. \n\n\n\n\n\"The Enchanted World\" was advertised with a series of commercials transmitted either in first-run syndication or during late-night television programming. The first of these known to be transmitted featured four people who described themselves as being in touch with the Enchanted World:\n1. Susan Hammett, who called herself an authentic witch. She began the first commercial by saying:\n\"People think that witches only exist in fairy tales. I'm living proof that we're real--and still around today! In fact...I'm from a \"long line\" of witches.\"\n2. Litany Burns, a self-styled clairvoyant. Her statement was:\n\"Ever since I was a child, I've been able to see things that aren't visible to ordinary senses. So ghosts are nothing new to me. I've seen them many times.\"\n3. Olga Hayes, a tarot card reader. According to her statement:\n\"The tarot cards are over five hundred years old. With them, I can tell a person's future. I can also tell what they were--in another life.\"\nAnd\n4. Wayne Weiseman, a self-styled psychic and the only male participant in the commercial. As he phrased his contacts with the Enchanted World:\n\"There are times when I find myself in another world. (He here faced the camera more directly.) I'm actually there. A lot of people have this power. They just have to develop it.\"\n\nAt least two of the later commercials featured actor Vincent Price, well known for his frequent roles in horror films.\nThe first of these, which featured a series of animals—first a rabbit, then a crow or a raven, then a frog, then a cat—transforming into each from the last through special photographic effects, had him, as the narrator, exhorting viewers, \"Enter 'The Enchanted World.'\" At the end of this commercial, the cat transformed—again, through special photographic effects—into a human; specifically, self-styled authentic witch Susan Hammett from the previous commercial, who pointed out, \"After all, how can you be \"sure\" witches don't exist--if you don't know what one \"looks\" like?\"\nIn the second, Price was shown on camera promoting the series and reading at least one of the books by candlelight. At one point, a gust of wind from an open window blew out the candle, which Price re-lit with a match. Then, through lighting trickery, his skin turned glowing green.\n\nAll the commercials ended with announcer Ted Alexander providing a toll-free telephone number for viewers to call, together with a mailing address where payment for each book in the series could be sent after a ten-day trial.\n"}
{"id": "36535200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36535200", "title": "The Xfm Top 1000 Songs of All Time", "text": "The Xfm Top 1000 Songs of All Time\n\nThe Xfm Top 1000 Songs of All Time is a musical reference book edited by various DJ's, of the now defunct radio station \"Xfm\", which was published by Elliott & Thompson Limited in 2010. The only edition comprises a list of singles and popular album tracks released between 1965 and 2009. The book is arranged alphabetically rather than in the form of a chart, while Brandon Flowers of The Killers provides a foreword.\n\nThe list was determined by listener votes of the radio station voting on their website, opinions from DJ's and radio play requests on the station's flagship show \"The X-List\". The station formerly broadcast to London and Manchester on digital DAB radio, and online to the rest of the world, with nearly 1 million listeners. The station also had a close relationship with Australian station \"Triple J\". Each entry in the list is accompanied by a short essay written by a DJ. The entries are accompanied by pictures, quotes, and additional information. As mentioned before, the list not only included singles, but also album-only tracks that entered public knowledge, with Led Zeppelin's \"Stairway to Heaven\" and Pink Floyd's \"Comfortably Numb\" being examples.\n\nAlthough the book mostly keeps to alternative rock acts of the present day, as well as classic bands such as The Beatles while the most recent singles in the book take up most of the list, many artists who appeared expressed their achievement as a highlight of their career, with a small number writing on the \"Xfm\" official site and also in the book itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8120739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8120739", "title": "Traitors' Gate", "text": "Traitors' Gate\n\nThe Traitor's Gate is an entrance through which many prisoners of the Tudors arrived at the Tower of London. The gate was built by Edward I, to provide a water gate entrance to the Tower, part of St. Thomas's Tower, which was designed to provide additional accommodation for the royal family.\n\nIn the pool behind Traitors' Gate was an engine that was used for raising water to a cistern on the roof of the White Tower. The engine worked originally by the force of the tide or by horsepower and eventually by steam. In 1724–6, it was adapted to drive machinery for boring gun barrels. It was removed in the 1860s.\n\nThe name Traitors' Gate has been used since before 1544, when that name is used on Anton van den Wyngaerde's panorama of London. Prisoners were brought by barge along the Thames, passing under London Bridge, where the heads of recently executed prisoners were displayed on pikes. Notable prisoners such as Sir Thomas More entered the Tower by Traitors' Gate. Although Queen Anne Boleyn is often reported to have passed through the Traitors' Gate after her arrest, the historian Eric Ives suggested that it was more likely she entered via the Court Gate in the Byward Tower.\n"}
{"id": "39522333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39522333", "title": "University Library, Bratislava", "text": "University Library, Bratislava\n\nUniversity Library in Bratislava (ULB) is the oldest library in Slovakia. It was founded in 1919 in Bratislava. Today, it is the largest and most visited library in the Slovak republic and it´s a universal state research library. \n\nThe library was one of the first cultural and educational institutions set up in the newly founded Czecho-Slovak Republic after WWI at the territory of Slovakia to support the emerging university education, science and library system. Its origin in 1919 was closely connected with the newly founded Comenius Czechol-slovak State University where the name of the university was reflected in the Library´s name. The library has never become an integral part of university, although relations between the two institutions were based on collaboration and close contact. The Library keeps its name because it refers to the original close contact towards the university and at the same time reflects the universal character of its collections. \nAs the time passed by the authorities set further goals and competences for ULB within the national and international framework. ULB has become the first library entitled to the legal deposit from the territory of Slovakia, and it is the only one which has kept this tradition since 1919 until today. Library´s historical book collections also have the character of a depository collection. Until 1954 ULB in fact fulfilled the tasks of the national library in Slovakia. Since then it has the statute of a universal state research library. \nThroughout its history two clear directions can be identified : a solid leading place in the national library system and active participation in international library cooperation.\n\nThe main objective was to renew buildings which are protected as cultural monuments, to modernize decaying library premises, to solve the lack of stacks and eliminated the danger of stagnation in the field of library services. Realization of the investment project \"Multifunctional Cultural and Library Centre\" led to a vast renewal and revitalization, it allowed the library users to utilize not only the refurbished premises, which they had already known, but also those parts of the historical buildings, which until that time the public did not have access to. New library stacks have been built, number of working stations has increased. Conditions for the protection of historical library collections significantly improved, including so called Bašagić Collection af Arabic, Turkish and Persian manuscripts inscribed on the UNESCO world heritage list \"Memory of the World\". The traditional library has transformed to a mediatheque and a portal to the virtual world of information. The profile of the Library was enlarged to fulfill multicunctional cultural and social functions. \nThe project of the reconstruction resulted in a synthesis of old and new : a modern library equipped with technologies of 21st century in a restored, originally baroque interior, supplemented by new exhibition, concert, conference and social premises. \n\nSince its beginning in 1919 the Library has its seat downtown Bratislava, in the heart of the historical centre of the Slovak capital. In comparison with other libraries in the town or in some Slovak regional towns, this unique location means advantage - Bratislava is and will be the political, economic, educational, scientific, cultural and social centre of the country. \nParadoxically - to point out several facts imposing limitations on its further development - one of the most limiting factors is the seat of the Library in a most attractive city location as well as the historical character of its main buildings. Both aspects practically exclude further expansion in space, better transport access, prevent further enhancement of infrastructure and services.\n\nAt present ULB is by all means a consolidated institution with a highly developed infrastructure and relevant professional and human petential. The Libray as a multifunctional cultural and library centre visited by approx. 300 thousand visitors and virtually via internet it is sought for assistance by further 700 thousand users a year. \n\nCooperation with other libraries on a national and international scale was a natural part of the ULB´s mission from its very beginning.\n\nBilateral agreements on cooperation with the closest and most respected partners : \n\nBilateral cooperative projects : \n\nAmong prestigious foreign partners of ULB through project World Digital Library are : \n\nParticipation in European programmes: COPERNICUS, IST, FP4, FP6, eTEN, ENRICH, MICHAEL Plus, EZB project, Minerva\n\nThe University Library includes the Bašagić Collection of Islamic Manuscripts. The collection is part of the UNESCO Memory of the World. It became a part of the register in 1997. It includes works by Sayf al-Din al-Amidi.\n\nThe Digital Library of the University Library in Bratislava is an independent collection of digitzed items - periodicals, old prints, music works or monographies in user-attractive layout. The Digital library offers access to more than 1.100,000 fulltext pages of slovacical items, mostly periodicals.\n\nThe most essential software feature is bibliographic information of individual content and advanced search. The content of the Digital library is categorized with added tags presented by faceted display or tree-like structure. User can mark items or their parts as favourite, make annotations and share them with specific person a user can freely define himself. User and „his group“ can comment on the shared annotations and share annotations, collections, objects or specific parts of displayed objects over Facebook, Twitter and Google+. The Digital library software operates effective tools for selection of whole page or selected textual and graphical zones from the original scanned files, which can be copied and translated instantly and be easily extracted into other software applications. \nAll items enable search through the content and hits are shown directly as overlaid highlights on images. It is also possible to search the content via metadata or date in combination with categories. Search results can be visually organized and sorted according to various criteria.\n\nThe Digital library offers free access to items out of copyright for all users without restrictions via internet. Items protected by the copyright law are accessible for registered users from the library´s network only. \n\nThe frame of the Digital library is made by textbooks for students (elementary and high school, university), encyclopaedias, dictionaries, handbooks, scientific publications, fiction, periodicals (daily papers, weekly papers, entertainment and political journals).\nAmong the most interesting works of the Digital library there are several works of Comenius (Janua Linguarum Reserata and Orbis Pictus) and works of old Slovak great writers and personalities, as J. M. Hurban, A. Bernolak, M. Hattala, J. Palarik, J. Ribay and S. Tesedik. In the collection of 19th and early 20th century periodicals there are Pressburger Zeitung, Slovenske pohlady, Dom a skola, Domova pokladnica, Hlas, Deres, Prudy, periodicals from the first half of the 20th century are Gemer-Malohont, Slovenská Pravda, Slovenský hlas, Narodna jednota, Pohronie. The period of the WWII is represented by Gardista, Slovak, Kulturny zivot, Sloboda, Novy svet and Elan. Works by Richard Strauss, E. Suchon and many song-books can be found in music works collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "22696709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22696709", "title": "Warren Ellis bibliography", "text": "Warren Ellis bibliography\n\nWarren Ellis is an English author of comics, novels, and television, well known for sociocultural commentary, both through his online presence and his writing, which covers transhumanist themes (most notably nanotechnology, cryonics, uploading, and human enhancement). He is a resident of Southend-on-Sea, England.\n\nTitles published by various British publishers include:\n\nTitles published by Marvel include:\n\nTitles published by DC Comics and its Vertigo imprint include:\n\nTitles published by Image include:\n\nTitles published by Wildstorm include:\n\nTitles published by Avatar include:\n\nTitles published by Avatar's Apparat imprint include:\n\nTitles published by various American publishers include:\n\n\n\n\n\nHe makes a lengthy cameo appearance in \"Powers\" volume 1 issue No. 7, in which much of his dialogue consists of actual quotations from Ellis' writings.\n\n"}
{"id": "15266166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15266166", "title": "Watermark (data synchronization)", "text": "Watermark (data synchronization)\n\nWatermark describes an object of a predefined format which provides a point of reference for two systems/datasets attempting to establish delta/incremental synchronization; any object in the queried data source which was created, modified/changed, and/or deleted after the watermark value was established will be qualified as \"above watermark\" and could/should be returned to a delta-querying partner\n\nWatermark term is often used in Directory Synchronization software development projects. For example, products such as Microsoft Exchange Server, Active Directory, Active Directory Application Mode (ADAM), and Microsoft Identity Integration Server 2003/ Microsoft Identity Lifecycle Manager Server 2007, as well as Cisco Unified Communications Manager or Sun Microsystems IPlanet and other LDAP-based directory products are using DirSync and consequently will consume \"watermark\" object to provide efficient synchronization between directories. Watermark object sometimes can be referred as \"cookie\".\nDirSync control implementation can differ from product to product, however concept of watermark will allow any product to read changes in the directory incrementally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39425699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39425699", "title": "Welsh v Lawrence", "text": "Welsh v Lawrence\n\nIn the English case of Welsh v Lawrence (11 April 1818), the plaintiff's horse was killed by the defendant's cart. Its chainstay had broken, causing the defendant's horse to run away. \"If the defendant is driving negligently as to the tackle,\" Bayley J said, \"he is driving negligently.\" This case has been cited as authority on the issue of negligence, both in tort and in criminal law, in both England and South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22462482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22462482", "title": "William Fulton (urban planner)", "text": "William Fulton (urban planner)\n\nWilliam \"Bill\" Fulton (born September 26, 1955) is an American author, urban planner, and politician. He served as Mayor of the City of Ventura, California, from 2009 to 2011 and later as the Planning Director for the City of San Diego. In October 2014 he became the head of the Kinder Institute for Urban Research at Rice University in Houston, Texas. He is considered a leading advocate of the \"Smart Growth\" movement in urban planning. In 2009, he was named to Planetizen's list of \"Top 100 Urban Thinkers\". He is the founder and publisher of the \"California Planning & Development Report\".\n\nFulton was raised in Auburn, New York, located in the Finger Lakes region of Upstate New York. He received journalism degrees from St. Bonaventure University and The American University in Washington, D.C. His ancestors moved to Auburn from Scotland after the Civil War to work in textile mills there.\n\nIn 1981, after attending university in Washington, D.C., he moved to Los Angeles and worked as a journalist. He subsequently earned a master's degree in urban planning at UCLA.\n\nFulton is best known as a commentator and expert on urban planning in California, writing hundreds of articles on the topic, including more than 40 Sunday Opinion pieces in the Los Angeles Times between 1982 and 2009. He is the author of several books, including \"Guide To California Planning\", the standard textbook on urban planning in California. The fourth edition of \"Guide to California Planning\" was published in 2012 and the fifth edition is scheduled for publication in 2017.\n\nHis book \"The Reluctant Metropolis: The Politics of Urban Growth in Los Angeles\" was a Los Angeles Times best-seller upon its publication in 1997. \"Publishers Weekly\" gave the book a starred review, calling it \"a surprisingly lively case study of the battles and alliances of politics, business and people that formed – or deformed – a great American city.\" Almost 15 years later, Christopher Hawthorne, the architecture critic of the Los Angeles Times, writing in the newspaper's \"Culture Monster\" blog, called \"The Reluctant Metropolis\" \"highly relevant\" and said Fulton is \"one of the most level-headed analysts of the built environment to emerge in Southern California in at least two generations.\"\n\nHe also co-authored \"The Regional City: Planning for the End of Sprawl\" with architect Peter Calthorpe, a founder of the New Urbanism movement, as well as \"California: Land and Legacy,\" an appreciation of California's natural environment and how it has been manipulated for human use. He is a longtime contributor on economic development issues to \"Governing\" Magazine; many of his columns dealt with the industrial decline of his native Upstate New York. In 2010 Fulton published his fifth book, a collection of columns from Governing titled \"Romancing The Smokestack.\"\n\nFrom 2000 to 2008, Fulton ran Solimar Research Group, a consulting firm and think tank dealing with land use issues. Among his most prominent Solimar works was \"Who Sprawls Most,\" a 2001 study for the Brookings Institution Center for Urban & Metropolitan Policy (now Metropolitan Policy Program) that debunked myths about sprawl in metropolitan areas around the nation. Among other things, \"Who Sprawls Most\" concluded that the West is growing densely while other parts of the nation have serious sprawl problems. For many years, \"Who Sprawls Most?\" was among Brookings' most downloaded publications.\n\nIn 2008, Solimar was merged into the Berkeley-based planning consulting firm Design, Community & Environment, where Fulton became a Principal and Shareholder. DC&E subsequently merged with The Planning Center to become The Planning Center / DC&E, where Fulton served as a Principal and Shareholder from 2011 to 2013.\n\nFulton also served as a Senior Fellow at the USC Sol Price School of Public Policy at the University of Southern California from 2004 to 2014, where he taught land use policy and smart growth. He is also the longtime publisher of the periodical \"California Planning & Development Report\", an online platform covering planning news throughout California.\n\nFulton has long been active in local politics. In the 1980s, he was a planning commissioner in the then-new City of West Hollywood, California. In 2003, following his involvement in a campaign to defeat a ballot initiative that would have permitted a large hillside development project, he ran for the city council in Ventura. In the election, he received more votes than any other candidate.\n\nIn 2007, Fulton sought re-election as a thoughtful moderate. After a successful re-election campaign, Fulton was selected deputy mayor by his colleagues. In early 2009, Fulton was said to be considering running in 2010 to represent California's 35th State Assembly district, a seat being vacated by the term-limited Pedro Nava. However, he chose not to run for the Assembly seat, which was eventually won by Das Williams. Fulton instead was selected as mayor by his city council colleagues in December 2009. He served as mayor until his term on the city council ended in December 2011 and did not seek re-election.\n\nDuring his career as a city councilmember and mayor, Fulton emphasized both urban planning and economic development issues. In 2004, Ventura hired as its city manager Rick Cole, a former mayor of Pasadena, California who is well known for his leadership on urban planning issues. Two years later Cole was selected by Governing Magazine as one of its \"Public Officials of the Year\". In 2005, Ventura adopted one of the first all-infill General Plans in the United States. Subsequently, Cole served as a Deputy Mayor for Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and in 2015 was named City Manager of Santa Monica.\n\nAs mayor, Fulton played a major role in promoting Ventura's creative economy, especially the growing arts and culture scene and the city's innovative high-tech incubator and venture capital efforts, bringing national attention to the city's work in both these areas.\n\nA longtime devotee and former student of UCLA \"parking guru\" Donald Shoup, Fulton championed the introduction of Ventura's widely hailed downtown parking management system, which included some paid on-street parking, while he was mayor in 2010. Though the parking system achieved its goal of encouraging more efficient use of parking spaces downtown immediately, it incurred the wrath of local Tea Party activists, who excoriated Fulton on the right-wing John and Ken talk radio show in Los Angeles. Tea Party activists subsequently qualified an initiative for the Ventura ballot to remove the parking meters. However, the measure was removed from the ballot by a judge. In the subsequent election, the Tea Party candidate for City Council fared poorly and Fulton's endorsed candidate was elected to succeed him on the council.\n\nIn early 2011, Fulton stepped into California's heated debate over the future of redevelopment when he was the only mayor in the state who came out in favor of Gov. Jerry Brown's proposal to eliminate redevelopment agencies, the longstanding urban revitalization tool. At a speech in Sacramento, Fulton, a longtime advocate of redevelopment reform, said he believed redevelopment should be replaced with a more targeted and effective tool for revitalization. California cities, he said, \"should not confuse the job we have to do with the tool we've been accustomed to using.\"\n\nShortly before leaving office, Fulton announced that he would relocate to Washington, D.C., to become Vice President of Smart Growth America, a nationwide advocacy group. He said he was making the move to work on a national level, to be closer to his family, and to live in an urban environment that did not require him to drive as much given his visual impairment. However, he said he would continue to be affiliated with The Planning Center | DC&E and the USC Price School and would return to Los Angeles and Ventura frequently.\n\nFor 18 months, Fulton toured the country for Smart Growth America, advocating for a smart growth approach to building cities and assisting local governments with their urban planning efforts. He focused especially on making the argument that smart growth is a better fiscal deal for taxpayers than sprawl, which often requires costly taxpayer subsidies.\n\nIn June 2013, then-San Diego Mayor Bob Filner made the surprising announcement that Fulton had agreed to return to California to serve as the city's planning director. San Diego's Planning Department had been dismantled under Filner's predecessor, Jerry Sanders. Local observers hailed Filner's appointment of Fulton as an inspired choice to restore San Diego's former eminence in the field of urban planning. In a September 2013 interview, Fulton called for a \"21st-century reinvention\" of the city and assured San Diegans, \"You have a way better city than you think you do.\" After Mayor Filner resigned only seven weeks after Fulton arrived, Acting Mayor Todd Gloria reaffirmed his faith in Fulton, saying, \"He has really been inspiring and improving the morale of the staff.\"\n\nDuring his time in San Diego, Fulton re-established the Planning Department, won City Council approval for a city Economic Development Strategy (the first in almost 15 years) and three Community Plan Updates (after five years of delay), and followed through on Filner's promise to create a Civic Innovation Lab. However, new Mayor Kevin Faulconer, who was elected in February 2014 to fill out the remainder of Filner's term, created a separate Economic Development Department and shut down the Civic Innovation Lab. Faulconer had also opposed the Fulton-endorsed Barrio Logan Community Plan Update, which passed the City Council but was subsequently overturned by voters in an industry-led citywide referendum. In August 1, 2014, it was announced Fulton would leave the city effective August 30 to become head of the Kinder Institute for Urban Research at Rice University in Houston, Texas.\n\nFulton said he left for a better opportunity and praised Faulconer's support of Community Plans Updates. But many local commentators suggested he had been squeezed out by Faulconer. San Diego CityBeat said: \"It began to look like Faulconer’s plan was to make life miserable for Fulton.\" Controversy over Fulton's approach lingered long after his departure as the San Diego political community continued to debate the wisdom of a more urban approach to growth in San Diego.\n\nIn August 2014 Fulton was named the Director of Rice University's Kinder Institute for Urban Research in Houston, TX. Endowed in 2010 by Richard Kinder and his wife Nancy, leading Houston philanthropists, the Institute was previously best known for the Houston Area Survey, the longest-running continuous public opinion survey in any American city, which was directed by Fulton's predecessor, Rice sociology professor Stephen Klineberg. Klineberg still directs the survey and serves as Director Emeritus of the Kinder Institute.\n\nIn Houston, Fulton jumped into the fray, saying the Kinder Institute would use Houston as a laboratory to deal with urban issues and become the leading urban policy institute in the Sunbelt. Although he declined to say much publicly about urban growth in Houston as he prepared the Kinder Institute's \"game plan\" in late 2014 and early 2015, he did say that growing debate over densification inside the 610 Loop suggested that Houston has reached a critical moment in \"growing up\" into a more urban place. Mr. Fulton's management style is to delegate all of his work to other employees, and then promote them to make them feel as though they are equals. \n\nIn early 2016, Houston Endowment Inc. announced a three-year, $7 million grant to the Kinder Institute to build a computerized \"Urban Data Platform\" and launch three new programs Fulton had created—Urban & Metropolitan Governance; Urban Development, Transportation & Placemaking; and Urban Disparity & Opportunity.\n\nIn early 2010, Fulton publicly announced that he had been diagnosed with retinitis pigmentosa, a degenerative retinal condition that gradually robs those who have it of their peripheral vision and night vision and often leads to complete blindness. Fulton's nephew, Eric Fulton, who is also affected by RP, is active in the Washington, D.C. area in raising funds for the Foundation Fighting Blindness to find treatments and a cure. His daughter, Brooke Ezra Torf-Fulton, is a recent planning and history graduate of Sonoma State University and lived in Tel Aviv with her husband, Tzachi, where she has worked with the Hiddush to advocate for more liberal marriage laws in Israel. They now live in San Francisco.\n\n\nCalthorpe, Peter, and William Fulton. \"The Regional City: Planning For The End of Sprawl\". Washington, D.C.: Island Press, 2001. \n\nFulton, William, \"California: Land and Legacy\". With a forward by Kevin Starr. Englewood, Colo.: Westcliffe Publishers, 1998. \n\nFulton, William, and Paul Shigley, \"Guide to California Planning\" (Third Edition). Point Arena, California: Solano Press Books, 2005..\n\nFulton, William, \"The Reluctant Metropolis: The Politics of Urban Growth in Los Angeles\". Baltimore, Maryland: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2001 (original edition, Solano Press Books, 1997). \n\nFulton, William, \"Romancing The Smokestack: How Cities and States Shape Prosperity.\" Ventura, California: Solimar Books, 2010. . \n\nCity Council biography http://www.cityofventura.net/city_council/bios/fulton\nProfessional biography http://citistates.com/speakers/wfulton/\nCity Council blog http://www.fulton4ventura.blogspot.com\nCalifornia planning blog http://www.cp-dr.com/blog/27\n"}
{"id": "1268164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268164", "title": "Yudhishthira", "text": "Yudhishthira\n\nIn the Hindu epic Mahabharata, Yudhishthira (Sanskrit: युधिष्ठिर, IAST: \"Yudhiṣṭhira\") was the eldest son of King Pandu and Queen Kunti and the king of Indraprastha and later of Hastinapura (Kuru). He was the leader of the successful Pandava side in the Kurukshetra War. At the end of the epic, he ascended to heaven. He was also blessed with the spiritual vision of second sight by a celestial Rishi as a boon.\n\nThe word \"Yudhishthira\" means \"the one who is steady in the war\", from the words, \"yuddha\" (युद्ध) meaning 'war', and \"sthira\" (स्थिर) meaning 'steady'. His other names are-\n\n\nOnce a Brahmin rishi, Kindama and his wife were making love in the forest when Yudhishthira's father Pandu accidentally shot at them, mistaking them for deer. Before dying, Kindama cursed the king to die when he engages in intercourse with any woman. Due to this curse, Pandu was unable to father children. As an additional penance for the murder, Pandu abdicated the throne of Hastinapura, and his blind brother Dhritarashtra took over the reins of the kingdom.\n\nAfter knowing the curse of Pandu, Kunti told him that he could be the father of child and told her boon of sage Durvasa. Then Pandu requested Kunti to apply her boon and suggested to call Dharma to get a truthful, knowledgeable and justice knowing son who can rule Hastinapur. On the full moon of May (Sanskrit: Jyeshth mah) first and eldest Pandavas Yudhishthira born.\n\nYudhishthira's four younger brothers were Bhima, (born by invoking Vayu); Arjuna, (born by invoking Indra); and the twins Nakula and Sahadeva, (born to Pandu's second wife Madri by invoking the Ashwini Gods). If Karna, the son of Kunti born before her marriage by invoking Surya is counted, Yudhishthira would be the second-eldest of Kunti's children.\n\nYudhishthira was trained in religion, science, administration and military arts by the Kuru preceptors, Kripa and Drona. Specifically, he became a master in using the spear and war chariot. It is said that his spear was so strong that it could penetrate a stone wall as though it were a piece of paper. His chariot always flew at a 4 finger distance above the ground due to his piety.\n\nYudhishthira had two wives, Devika and Draupadi. Devika was his first wife. Devika married Yudhishthira in her swayamwara. When Yudhishthira was the crown prince of Hastinapur then Yudhishthira attained Devika's Swayamvara and then Devika chose him. Devika was the daughter of King Shivi. It also said in some tales that Devika used to love Yudhishthira and Devika was his first love. After the Lakshyagriha episode, the Pandavas disguised as Brahmins went to the kingdom of Panchala. Here, they attended the Swayamwara of Draupadi, who was the princess of Panchala and the daughter of King Drupada. Arjuna, the younger brother of Yudhishthira, participated in her swayamwara and succeeded in winning her hand in marriage. After the swayamvara, Arjuna along with his brothers, treaded towards the hut where their mother Kunti was waiting for them. As soon as they reached the hut, Arjuna called his mother in delight and said, “Look what we have got as alms”. Kunti who was praying at that moment, without looking what exactly it was, commanded “Whatever Arjuna has received as alms should be equally distributed amongst the five brothers.” Hence Draupadi was married off to all the five brothers, making her the common wife of the Pandavas. But, Mahabharata indirectly shows the love and attraction between five Pandavas and Draupadi. Yudhishthira's first love and wife, his empress was Draupadi.\n\nAfter the coronation at Indraprastha, Yudhishthira set out to perform the Rajasuya yagna.\n\nArjuna, Bhima, Nakula, and Sahadeva led armies across the four corners of the world to obtain tributes from all kingdoms for Yudhishthira's sacrifice. The non-compliant Magadha king, Jarasandha was defeated by Bhima and Krishna. At his sacrifice, Yudhishthira chose Krishna as his honoured guest.\n\nYudhishthira succumbed to Shakuni's challenge in the Pachisi (game of dice). He lost his kingdom, his brothers and Draupadi. While playing for second time, he lost all his kingdom in the game and was forced into exile for 13 years, which included one year in anonymity.\n\nDuring their exile, the four other Pandavas happened upon a lake, which was haunted by a Yaksha. The Yaksha challenged the brothers to answer his moral questions before drinking the water; the four Pandavas laughed and drank the water anyway. As a result, they choked on the water and died. Yudhishthira went in last, answered many questions put forth to him by the Yaksha and revived his brothers. This story is often cited as an example of Yudhishthira's upright principles. The Yaksha later identified himself as Yudhishthira's father, Dharma and pointed them to the kingdom of Matsya to spend their last year in exile anonymously.\n\nAlong with his brothers, Yudhishthira spent his last year of exile in the kingdom of Matsya. He disguised himself as a Brahmin named Kank (among themselves Pandavas called him Jaya) and taught the game of dice to the king.\n\nWhen the period of exile was completed, Duryodhana refused to return Yudhishthira's kingdom. Yudhishthira made numerous diplomatic efforts to retrieve his kingdom peacefully but in vain. He was convinced by Krishna to wage war.\n\nThe flag of Yudhishthira's chariot bore the image of a golden moon with planets around it. Two large and beautiful kettle-drums, called Nanda and Upananda, were tied to it. Before the war started, Yudhisthitra sep down of his chariot to take blessings firm his grand sire Bhishma, teachers Drona and Kripa and uncle Shalya, who all were in his opposite side in the war showing his respect towards his elders.\n\nYudhishthira had to bend numerous rules of Dharma during the course of the war. Krishna made him trick Drona about the news of the death of Ashwathama. Yudhishthira also had to slay a number of warriors, including his own uncle, Shalya in a spear fight and his another uncle, Shalya's younger brother he killed them both on the 18th day of the war when Shalya was the commander-in-chief.\n\nAfter the war, Yudhisthira was crowned as the Emperor of Hastinapura for 36 years. He performed Ashwamedha Yagya on Krishna's insistence and established Bharat Varsh as one country under his rule. Upon the onset of the Kali yuga and the departure of Krishna, Yudhishthira and his brothers retired, leaving the throne to their only descendant to survive the war of Kurukshetra, Arjuna's grandson, Parikshit. Giving up all their belongings and ties, the Pandavas, accompanied by a dog, made their final journey of pilgrimage to the Himalayas. Among the Pandavas and Draupadi, one-by-one died on the way to reach the top, starting from Draupadi. Finally, it was Yudhisthira who was able to reach the top, with the dog accompanying him.\n\nOn reaching the top, Indra asked him to abandon the dog before entering the Heaven. But Yudhishthira refused to do so, citing the dog's unflinching loyalty as a reason. Indra said he let his family die, but Yudhishthira said he could not prevent their death's, but to abandon a poor creature was a great sin.It turned out that the dog was his god-mother Dharma Devatha in disguise.\n\nUpon reaching heaven, Yudhishthira did not find either his virtuous brothers or his wife Draupadi. Instead, he only saw Duryodhana and his allies. The Gods told him that his brothers were in Naraka (one of the vedic hells), atoning for their sins.\n\nYudhishthira loyally went to Naraka to meet his brothers, but the sight of gore and blood horrified him. After hearing the voices of his beloved brothers and Draupadi calling out to him, asking him to stay with them in their misery, he remained. Yudhishthira ordered the divine charioteer to return. He preferred to live in hell with good people than in a heaven with his enemies. Eventually this turned out to be another illusion to test him and also to enable him to atone for his sin of deceiving his guru during the war where he half-lied to Drona about Ashwatthama's death. Thereafter, Indra and Krishna appeared before him and told him that his brothers (including Karna) were already in heaven but so were his enemies.\n\nAfter he was made aware that Karna was his elder brother, Yudhishthira cursed all women with not being able to hide any secrets. Had Yudhishthira's mother Kunti not kept that fact a secret, the war might have been averted, with millions spared. This is written by Author Pampa in his Pampa Bharata and is not mentioned in Mahabharata of Vyasa\n\nHe was said to be very good at spear-fighting and at chariot racing. Yudhishthira was a polyglot, knowing unusual languages. He was known for his honesty, justice, sagacity, tolerance, good behavior and discernment.\n\nDhritarashtra said to Sanjaya \"The son of Kunti and Pandu, Yudhishthira, is virtuous and brave and eschews deeds that bring on shame. Endued with great energy, he hath been wronged by Duryodhana. If he were not high-minded, they would in wrath burn the Dhritarashtras. I do not so much dread Arjuna or Bhima or Krishna or the twin brothers as I dread the wrath of the king, O Suta, when his wrath is excited. His austerities are great; he is devoted to \"Brahmacharya\" practices. His heart's wishes will certainly be fulfilled. When I think of his wrath, O Sanjaya, and consider how just it is, I am filled with alarm.\"\n\nYudhishthira acquired deep spiritual knowledge from Lord Shiva and many prominent sages including Vyasa, Parashurama, Bhrigu, Savarni Manu, Narada, Markandeya, Asita Devala and Dhaumya. (Mahabharata Sabha Parva Section 77).\n\nBeing a character in Indian epic and an important person in Mahabharata, this role has been enacted by various actors over the years. Two most famous actors to have played this role are Gajendra Chauhan in the Mahabharat (1988 TV series), and Rohit Bharadwaj in the Mahabharat (2013 TV series). Both were offered the role of Lord Krishna first and then Yudhishthira. Manoj Bajpayee has also voiced the character in the animated Mahabharat (2013 film). In 2015 series Suryaputra Karn, Kanan Malhotra played the role.\nThere is a red dragon in the Iron Realms Entertainment game Aetolia, The Midnight Age named Yudhishthira.\n\n"}
