{"id": "19116057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19116057", "title": "Agnolo di Tura", "text": "Agnolo di Tura\n\nAgnolo de Tura (14th century) was a chronicler from Siena, Italy. He was also a shoemaker and tax collector. He married a woman named Nicoluccia, who was of a higher class than he was. Agnolo di Tura was determined to rise in the world (his wife kept reminding him of how much she gave up to be with a man of lower status). Together Agnolo di Tura and Nicoluccia had five children. During the time of the Black Death, Nicoluccia and all five children died. Agnolo di Tura writes of the event: \"And I, Agnolo di Tura, called the Fat, buried my five children with my own hands\". Agnolo di Tura survived the Black Death and remarried.\n\nOne of his writings is this, from Agnolo di Tura, of Siena:\n\n\"The mortality in Siena began in May. It was a cruel and horrible thing. . . . It seemed that almost everyone became stupefied seeing the pain. It is impossible for the human tongue to recount the awful truth. Indeed, one who did not see such horribleness can be called blessed. The victims died almost immediately. They would swell beneath the armpits and in the groin, and fall over while talking. Father abandoned child, wife husband, one brother another; for this illness seemed to strike through breath and sight. And so they died. None could be found to bury the dead for money or friendship. Members of a household brought their dead to a ditch as best they could, without priest, without divine offices. In many places in Siena great pits were dug and piled deep with the multitude of dead. And they died by the hundreds, both day and night, and all were thrown in those ditches and covered with earth. And as soon as those ditches were filled, more were dug. I, Agnolo di Tura . . . buried my five children with my own hands. . . . And so many died that all believed it was the end of the world.\"\n\nAnother one of his writings was this:\n\n\"All the citizens did little else except to carry dead bodies to be buried [...] At every church they dug deep pits down to the water-table; and thus those who were poor who died during the night were bundled up quickly and thrown into the pit. In the morning when a large number of bodies were found in the pit, they took some earth and shovelled it down on top of them; and later others were placed on top of them and then another layer of earth, just as one makes lasagne with layers of pasta and cheese\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6926456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6926456", "title": "Alam", "text": "Alam\n\nAlam عالم is derived from Arabic meaning \"World\" or \"Universe\" or \"Dimension\" e.g. عالم غيب (Alam-e-Ghaib) meaning the unseen dimension, or unseen world. \n\nIts plural is \"Alameen\" عالمين \"Worlds\" or \"Multi-verse\" \n\nAlam means \"flag\" or \"sign\" in Arabic. In Egypt, it may refer to a stone heap set up to mark a path in the desert. \n'Alam is also of spiritual significance for the Twelver Shia Muslims. Though all Shias including those of Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Lebanon, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and Syria carry 'Alams in their processions in Ashura, the ones in India and Pakistan are specifically of a different kind and have more of a spiritual significance. An Alam with a \"Panja\" on top of it is considered to be a religious flag of Islam, and it is said to be carried by Muhammad, Ali and Abbas ibn Ali during battles or expeditions. The battle of Karbala further glorifies its importance. An Alam is usually seen during Muharram processions and at designated sites in Shia Mosques.\n\nHistorically, Muhammad's family had a unique flag that represented the Bani Hashim clan in specific. One honorable member of the family would be chosen to carry this as a representation to others. Earlier it was green in color and was given to first Imam Ali ibn Abi Talib by Muhammad himself, then Ali ibn Abi Talib gave this Alam to his son Al Abbas ibn Ali who held this Alam till his last breath in the Battle of Karbala. After the event of Karbala, Alams during azadari procession are colored black or red.\n\nIt is thought to have been a black drape on a wooden pole with an emblem on the top. The Alams of India and Pakistan usually have one that is a long wooden pole mounted with a silver or metal \"Panja\" (meaning a claw or palm of your hand). An 'Alam is usually seen during Muharram Processions and at designated sites in Shia Mosques today. Though there are Sufi shrines or mausoleums of Pirs that still have decorated 'Alams in Muharram in such cities as Karachi and Mumbai, this practice being performed by people other than Shia Muslims has subsided over the last two decades out of fears of attacks by Wahhabis. An example of people who still practice \"Hosay\" or a multicultural event on the tenth of Muharram and carry 'Alams can be found in Trinidad and Tobago. These Indians left India at a time when the Pir system was still in effect and this cross cultural event was still practiced without persecution.\n\nThe practice of taking out Alam procession during the holy month of Moharram or any festival season is prevalent in India and Pakistan when hundreds of thousands of people come out on the streets holding the Alam in their hands. Alams taken out during celebration are usually green in color and the ones taken out during mourning procession are mostly either black or red in color, black signifies grief while red reminds of revenge for martyrs of Karbala still remaining. Alams in India and Pakistan are sometimes more than 20 feet in length.\n\nPeople who hold these Alams are referred as \"Alamdars\" (the Flag Bearers).\n\nĀlam is commonly an Arabic surname, it refers to various families living in Bangladesh, Lebanon, Jordan (inhabiting Al-Salt and Madaba areas), Syria and Palestine.\n\nAs a Muslim laqab (لقب) name, Ālam often occurs as a joined names such as Ālameddin, Alameddine, Alamuddin, Alamettin, Alam Ed Din, Alam Ud Deen, Alam Ad Din, Alam Ud Din, ...etc. Din (Arabic:دين) or Deen refers to \"way of life\" or \"code of life\" and religion (in Islam). The difference in Latin spelling originates from westernization of the Arabic name into various European languages. The original spelling (علم الدين) remains the same when the Arabic script is being used.\n\nSeveral notable people share the surname \"Alam\":\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49467058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49467058", "title": "Assaf dynasty", "text": "Assaf dynasty\n\nThe Assaf dynasty (also called Banu Assaf) were a Sunni Muslim and ethnic Turkmen dynasty of chieftains based in the Keserwan region of Mount Lebanon. They came to the aforementioned area in 1306 after being assigned by the Bahri Mamluks to guard the coastal region between Beirut and Jbeil and to check the power of the mostly Shia Muslim population at the time. During this period, they established their headquarters in Ghazir, which served as the Assafs' base throughout their rule.\n\nUnder the leadership of Emir Assaf, they were confirmed as the rulers of Keserwan by Sultan Selim I following the Ottoman conquest in 1516. Emir Assaf died two years later and was succeeded by his son Hasan, who was in turn killed by his brother Qa'itbay. The latter ruled Keserwan until his death without children in 1523, after which he was succeeded by Hasan's son Mansur. Mansur had a long reign and was accorded by the Ottomans numerous districts in Mount Lebanon and its environs as tax farms. He eliminated many of his Sunni rivals, and his local power relied on a Maronite Christian support base and his Maronite agents, namely members of the Hubaysh clan, who served as a check on the Shia Muslim sheikhs of Keserwan. At the peak of his power, Mansur's realm stretched from Beirut to Homs.\n\nMansur was dismissed in 1579 and replaced by his son Muhammad, who was imprisoned by the authorities in 1584 for alleged involvement in a looting raid against an Istanbul-bound caravan. He was restored to Keserwan in 1585 and was given tax collection authority over the rural districts of Tripoli Eyalet; this brought him into conflict with the Sayfa clan, the Assafs' erstwhile Turkmen clients, one of whose members, Yusuf Pasha Sayfa, was governor of Tripoli. The Assaf realm dissipated in 1591 when Muhammad was killed while attempting to collect taxes from the Sayfas in Akkar. Afterward, Yusuf Pasha Sayfa married Muhammad's widow and inherited the Assaf realm.\n\nThe Assafs were Sunni Muslims and ethnic Turkmens. In 1306, the Mamluks installed the Assaf tribe as the lords of Keserwan after defeating the Shia Muslims who politically dominated Keserwan and were the majority population in the area. The Assafs-based themselves in the Keserwani village of Ghazir, which became the tribe's headquarters. The Assaf were entrusted by the Mamluks of maintaining a 300-strong cavalry unit to patrol the region between Beirut and Jbeil and to guard entry into the Keserwan from Beirut. Historian Kamal Salibi asserts that Turkmen tribesmen were settled in Keserwan after the Mamluk conquest in 1305, but does not specify that it was the Assaf tribe that became lords of the region. Under Assaf or Turkmen lordship, Shia influence in Keserwan dwindled; they remained the majority in the region due to continual immigration from the Beqaa Valley, but were forced out of the coastal areas of Keserwan and their population declined. In addition, the Alawite population in the region largely disappeared under Assaf lordship.\n\nIn 1382, the Mamluk emir Barquq usurped the throne in Cairo, establishing the Burji regime. The latter were ethnic Circassians unlike their Turkmen Bahri predecessors, which resulted in frayed relations between the Turkmens of Keserwan and the new rulers. The tensions between the Turkmens of Keserwan and the Burji authorities contrasted with the Turkmens' principal rivals in Mount Lebanon, the Druze Buhturids, who embraced Sultan Barquq. When the latter was briefly toppled in a Bahri revolt in 1389, the Buhturids fought against the Bahri rebels in Damascus, while the Turkmen tribesmen assaulted the Druze Tanukhi tribesmen in Beirut and the surrounding hills. In those engagements and the executions that followed, the Turkmens killed seven of the eight Tanukhi Abi al-Jaysh Arslan emirs, Druze allies of the Buhturids.\n\nBarquq was restored to power in 1390, after which the Turkmen tribesmen raided the hills around Beirut once more, although they were unable to capture the villages of Ainab and Aramoun. Under Barquq's direction, the Mamluks mobilized their army troops, Druze warriors, and tribesmen from the Beqaa Valley and dealt a heavy blow against the Turkmens of Keserwan. Nonetheless, Barquq decided to keep the Turkmen emirs as the lords of Keserwan, albeit in a weakened state. Barquq likely kept the Turkmens in place to avoid giving the Buhturids too much power in Mount Lebanon or to avoid over-extending Buhturid forces. According to Salibi, only four Turkmen emirs have been named in primary sources: a certain Sa'id who ruled in 1361, his brother and successor Isa, and a certain Ali ibn al-A'ma and his brother Umar ibn al-A'ma. The latter two were the Turkmen emirs involved in the rebellion against Barquq. Ali was killed in Barquq's punitive expedition, while Umar was imprisoned and released.\n\nAccording to historian Muhammad Adnan Bakhit, reliable information about the Assafs in the early 16th century is relatively scarce. A certain Emir Assaf from among the Turkmen tribesmen of Keserwan was appointed by Ottoman sultan Selim I as governor of the Keserwan \"nahiya\" (subdistrict; pl. \"nawahi\") of the Safad Sanjak (Beirut Sanjak) after the Ottomans took control of the Levant from the Mamluks in 1516. Sultan Selim I assigned the Assafs as his chief agents in the region between Beirut and Tripoli, confirming their control of Keserwan, and awarding them tax farms in the \"nawahi\" of Jbeil and Beirut. While Emir Assaf had lived in Aintoura in the winter and elsewhere along the Nahr al-Kalb ridge prior to the Ottoman conquest, in 1517, he moved his headquarters to Ghazir. The move to the latter village in Keserwan's interior and away from the Turkmen-dominated coastal area likely contributed to a steady deterioration of ties between the Assafs and their fellow Turkmens. At the same time, it brought the Assafs closer to the Maronites who lived in the interior areas of Keserwan. Coiniciding to the Assafs' relocation to Ghazir, Hubaysh ibn Musa moved to the village from Yanouh. The Assaf and Hubaysh clans thereafter developed strong ties, with members of the latter serving as agents of the Assafs and becoming their chief intermediaries with the local Maronites.\n\nIn Tripoli, the Assafs had their own chief agent, Muhammad Agha Shu'ayb, who was their subordinate tax collector for the countryside of Tripoli, including the Akkar plains. Meanwhile, the Buhturids were stripped of power in 1518 when their leader was imprisoned by the authorities for failure to submit allegiance to Selim I. Thus, the Ottomans restored the Assafs to their former prominence in Mount Lebanon. \nIn the historical account of the 17th-century Maronite patriarch and historian, Istifan al-Duwayhi, Emir Assaf died in 1518, and was succeeded by his son Hasan. Hasan and his brother Husayn had previously served as managers of their father's affairs.\n\nAssaf's other son from a different wife, Qa'itbay, sought to usurp power from his brothers. In the ensuing power struggle, Qa'itbay was forced to flee and received refuge in Choueifat, before relocating to Beirut; there, he accrued funds to bribe the governor of Damascus, Janbirdi al-Ghazali, to replace Hasan as the tax farmer of Keserwan. Hasan and Husayn sought to reconcile with their half-brother, but as they entered Beirut, they were killed in an ambush ordered by Qa'itbay. In his subsequent assertion of control over Keserwan, Jbeil and Beirut, Qa'itbay was backed by Janbirdi al-Ghazali, the ex-Mamluk Ottoman governor of Damascus Eyalet. Despite al-Ghazali's revolt against the Ottomans and its subsequent suppression in 1521, the authorities did not punish Qa'itbay for his alliance with al-Ghazali. However, the death of al-Ghazali represented the loss of a major political patron of the emir.\n\nAfter al-Ghazali's downfall, the Hubaysh clan, who had since been forced out by Qa'itbay and settled in Lassa, sought to oust Qa'itbay. They kidnapped Hasan's son Mansur, who Qa'itbay had spared from execution due to Qa'itbay's lack of male children, and organized a revolt against Qa'itbay in Mansur's name. The revolt quickly spread through Qa'itbay's territories, but after marshaling financial resources to mobilize military support from the Bedouin Ibn al-Hansh tribe of the Beqaa Valley, he managed to drive his opponents back to Lassa. Qa'itbay died without a male heir in 1523, and was succeeded by Hasan's son Mansur, who Qa'itbay had spared from execution due to Qa'itbay's lack of male children.\n\nIn Ottoman administrative records, a certain Emir Musa Bey is noted as the local authority in Keserwan between Qa'itbay's death in 1523 and 1548, not Mansur. However, nothing else is written about Emir Musa, prompting Bakhit to suggest that by dint of Musa's title, \"emir\", that Musa was a member of the Assaf clan who led the dynasty as a virtual regent during the years of Mansur's years as a minor. In Duwayhi's account, only Mansur is mentioned as leader.\nMansur was regularly assigned the tax farms of the \"nawahi\" of Keserwan, Jbeil, Batroun, Bsharri, Kura and Dinniyah. Mansur installed members of the Hubaysh clan as his chief agents in Keserwan, particularly investing sheikhs Yusuf and Sulayman Hubaysh as his stewards. Mansur also became the patron of the Turkmen Sayfa clan, who entered the region as Ottoman \"levend\" (auxiliary troops) in 1528. He installed the Sayfas as his subordinate tax farmers in Akkar, provoking opposition from Muhammad Shu'ayb, who was killed by Mansur later that year. Mansur subsequently had Shu'ayb replaced with Yusuf Sayfa as his chief agent in Tripoli. Mansur proceeded to eliminate his Muslim rivals between then and 1541. Among those killed were the Kurdish Ottoman official in charge of Batroun, a couple of Shia sheikhs from Keserwan, a rival Turkmen clan in Keserwan and the sheikhs of the Bedouin Ibn al-Hansh tribe; the latter were executed at a reception held by Mansur in Ghazir.\n\nMansur encouraged Maronite settlement in Keserwan, who he viewed as less of a threat to his rule than his Sunni rivals and as a counterweight to the Shia Muslim clans of Keserwan; the Maronites were the majority population in the \"nawahi\" that Mansur tax farmed. In the 1540s, he lowered taxes and reduced property prices in Keserwan, attracting Maronite settlement in that \"nahiya\". With the likely influence of the Hubaysh, who sought to oust the Shia from Keserwan, Maronite families from Jbeil village of Jaj, namely the Khazens, Gemayels and Kumayds, settled in the Keserwani villages of Ballouneh, Bikfaya and Ghazir's ridge, respectively, in 1545. With Yusuf Hubaysh as his chief deputy, Mansur managed to control a virtual principality between Beirut to Homs, and built palatial residences for himself in Ghazir, Beirut and Jbeil. Historian William Harris asserts that Mansur's principality was the \"precursor of the Druze lordship of Fakhr ad-Din Ma'n\".\n\nAlthough Mansur timely delivered taxes to the authorities, the Ottomans became wary of his power in Mount Lebanon and importing of arms from Venice. In 1579, Sultan Murad III established the Tripoli Eyalet, which was centered in Tripoli and included all of the \"nawahi\" north of Keserwan that were ostensibly under Assaf lordship. The authorities assigned Mansur's client Yusuf Sayfa as Tripoli's governor, making him independent of Mansur. Yusuf Pasha Sayfa's elevation also gave him tax rights over the Mansur's former and predominantly Maronite \"nawahi\".\n\nComplaints lodged to the authorities against Mansur ultimately led to his dismissal in 1579. He was replaced with his son Muhammad. Mansur died in 1580. According to Duwayhi, Muhammad was alleged by the authorities to have participated in the looting of an Istanbul-bound caravan from Egypt while it was passing through the Akkar and was consequently imprisoned in Istanbul. However, Ottoman sources mention that the caravan arrived safely in Istanbul and that the commander of the caravan, Ibrahim Pasha, backed by a 20,000-strong army, arrested Muhammad and Qurqumaz Ma'an while suppressing rebel activity in Mount Lebanon en route to Istanbul. About a year later, Muhammad was released and assigned the tax farm for Tripoli Eyalet's rural districts, not including Tripoli itself, which remained under Yusuf Sayfa. The Ottoman authorities were content with Muhammad's rule, but were vexed by the Maronites in his retinue.\n\nMuhammad's taxation was considered exploitative by Tripoli Eyalet's inhabitants. Yusuf Sayfa refused to pay taxes to Muhammad, prompting the latter to attempt collecting them through military means. However, while en route to the Akkar to pressure the Sayfas, Muhammad was shot dead outside of Tripoli on Yusuf Sayfa's orders in 1591. Muhammad's death with no male heirs marked the end of Assaf rule. Following his death, Yusuf Sayfa was transferred control of the Assafs' \"nawahi\" in Tripoli Eyalet, and he expelled the Hubaysh clan, promoting his Shia Muslim Hamade allies from Jbeil at their expense. In 1593, Yusuf Sayfa wed Muhammad's widow and thus acquired the Assafs' wealth. He concurrently took control over Keserwan and Assaf properties in Beirut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "655947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655947", "title": "Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Thero", "text": "Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Thero\n\nBalangoda Ananda Maitreya Thero (;23 August 1896 – 18 July 1998) was a Sri Lankan scholar Buddhist monk and a personality of Theravada Buddhism in the twentieth century. He was highly respected by Sri Lankan Buddhists, who believe that he achieved a higher level of spiritual development through meditation. Sri Lankan Buddhists also considered Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Thero as a Bodhisattva, who will attain Buddhahood in a future life.\n\nBalangoda Ananda Maitreya Thero lived a modest life and did a great service for the propagation of Buddhist philosophy. In recognition of his valuable service at the Sixth Buddhist council held in Burma, the Burmese government conferred on him the title \"Agga Mahapandita\" (Chief Great Scholar) in 1956. Later in March 1997, the Burmese government conferred on Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Thero the highest Sangha title, \"Abhidhaja Maharatthaguru\" (Most Eminent Great Spiritual Teacher), which is equivalent to Sangharaja, in honor of his unique service to the Buddhist religion.\n\nBalangoda Ananda Maitreya Thero was born on 23 August 1896 in Kirindigala, Balangoda, to the family of N. A. Mathises Appuhamy (Maddumahamy) and B. Heenmanike. His birth name was Punchi Mahattaya aka William. Because Punchi Mahattaya's mother died when he was 14 days old, he was brought up by his father's brother and his wife. \nPunchi Mahattaya had his primary education at Kumara Vidyalaya, Balangoda.\n\nAt the age of 15 he had decided to enter the order of Buddhist monks and was ordained as a Samanera at the temple Sri Nandaramaya, Udumulla, Balangoda on 2 March 1911. He was ordained under the guidance of Ven. Daamahana Dhammananda Thero and Deniyaye Seelananda Thero was his primary teacher (\"Upaadhyaayanwahanse\"). Balangdoda Ananda Maitreya Thero received his Upasampada on 14 July 1916 at Olu Gantota Udakukhepa Seema, Balangoda.\nThero continued his studies after becoming a monk and later became a scholar in Buddhism and languages. Thero entered Ananda College, Colombo in 1919 and became a teacher of the same school in 1922. Unusually for a Theravada teacher, he publicly studied some other traditions, such as Mahayana Buddhism, mantra and esoteric yoga. This is understandable when one realizes that he was a theosophist as well as a Buddhist. He was a self learner in most of his areas of studies.\n\nAnanda Maitreya Thero was the first Dharmarcharya (teacher of Buddhism) at Nalanda College Colombo, when it was first established in 1925. It was Venerable Thero who named it 'Nalanda' and chose \"Apadana Sobhini Panna\" meaning \"wisdom beautifies character\" as Nalanda College's motto, which is still being used. Later he became the professor of Mahayana Buddhism at Vidyodaya University, Sri Lanka. He was appointed to the post of Dean, Faculty of Buddhist Studies in 1963. On 1 October 1966, he was appointed to the post of Vice Chancellor at the same university.\n\nAnanda Maithreya Thero's first overseas Dhamma journey was to Kerala, India in 1926. He opened the Sri Dhammananda Pirivena, Colombo in 1930. \nOn 18 January 1954, Thero was appointed to the post of Sangha Nayaka of \"Sabaragamu-Saddhammawansa Nikaya\" and in the same year he participated in the Sixth Buddhist council held in Myanmar. On 2 September 1969, Ananda Maitreya Thero was appointed as the President of Amarapura Sangha Sabhā of Sri Lanka.\n\nAnanda Maitreya Thero was famous for his achievements in Buddhist meditation. He was known to have practiced both Samatha meditation and Vipassana meditation to a great extent and was considered to be having a highly developed mind through his meditation. Many Buddhists have experienced his powerful spiritual blessings in many more ways than one. His teachings and life have been an inspiration to many aspiring monks and lay followers.\n\nVenerable Ananda Maitreya Thero along with Venerable Narada Thero and Venerable Madihe Pannaseeha Thero was and still is one of the foremostly revered and respected Buddhist monks of the twentieth century in Sri Lanka. His work and sacrifices with Anagarika Dharmapala was one of the steering forces of the upholding of Buddhism in Sri Lanka at one stage. Thero also traveled to many countries in the world for the propagation of Buddhism. Most Venerable Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Thero died at 11.40 p.m. on 18 July 1998 at the age of 101.\n\nIn 1955, the Government of Myanmar (then Burma) conferred him the title \"Agga Maha Pandita\" (Great Chief Scholar) to honour his unprecedented service at the Sixth Buddhist council. To honor his unique service to the Buddha Śāsana, Myanmar also conferred him the highest Sangha title, \"Abhidhaja Maharatthaguru\" (Most Eminent Great Spiritual Teacher), which is equivalent to Sangharaja in 1997. Ananda Maithreya Thero received the \"Thripitaka Vaagishwaracharya Pravachana Visharada Raajakeeya Panditha\" honours degree from the Government of Sri Lanka. In addition to that, Nayaka Thero has received two honorary titles, \"Saahithyasuuri\" from Vidyodaya University and \"Saahithya Chakrawarthi\" from Vidyalankara University.\n\nThe humbleness of Maha Nayaka Thero's character is clearly shown, when he publicly stated that he had no liking whatsoever for titles and awards, but that he was rather accepting it to satisfy the presenter. He quoted Lord Buddha in his speech saying \"I often remind myself of My Great Buddha's preaching in the Sanyuktha nikaya of the Abhidhamma Pitaka of the worthlessness and futileness of the craving for awards, titles and commanding positions\".\n\nAnanda Maitreya Thero wrote nearly fifty books on \"sutras\" (scripture), \"vinaya\" (monastic discipline), on \"abhidhamma\" (metaphysics), and on Pali and Sanskrit grammar. His book, \"Sakyasimhavadanaya hevat Buddha Charita\" (\"The Life of the Buddha\"), is considered as a textbook. Most of his books are written in English and Sinhala languages.\n\n\nAnanda Maitreya Thero translation of the \"Dhammapada\" is published internationally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4855341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4855341", "title": "Berechiah", "text": "Berechiah\n\nBerechiah is a Jewish name that occurs several times in the Bible. It is derived from Berakhah, \"blessing\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24545480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24545480", "title": "Bhat Vahis", "text": "Bhat Vahis\n\nBhat Vahis were scrolls or records maintained by Bhatts also known as Bhatra. The majority of Bhat Sikhs originate from Punjab and were amongst the first followers of Guru Nanak. Bhat tradition and Sikh text states their ancestors came from Punjab, where the Raja Shivnabh and his kingdom became the original 16th century followers of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. The Raja's grandson Prince Baba Changa earned the title ‘Bhat Rai’ – the ‘Raja of Poets, and then settled himself and his followers all over India as missionaries to spread the word of Guru Nanak, where many northern Indians became Bhat Sikhs. The majority were from the northern Brahmin caste (Bhat clan),(Bhat (surname)) as the Prince Baba Changa shared the Brahmin heritage. The sangat also had many members from different areas of the Sikh caste spectrum, such as the Hindu Rajputs and Hindu Jats who joined due to Bhat sikh missionary efforts. The Bhats also contributed 123 compositions in the Sri Guru Granth Sahib (pp.1389–1409), known as the \"Bhata de Savaiyye\". There hereditary occupations consisted of bards, poets, missionaries, astrologists, genealogists, salesmen. According to John Nesfield as quoted in William Crooke's \"The Tribes and Castes of the North Western India\" (1896), Bhatts frequently visited the courts of princes and the camps of warriors, recited their praises in public, and kept records of their genealogies.\n\nThese bards constantly attended upon or visited their patron families reciting panegyrics to them and receiving customary rewards. They also collected information about births, deaths and marriages in the families and recorded it in their scrolls. These scrolls containing information going back to several past centuries formed the valued part of the bards` hereditary possessions. A group of Bhatts was introduced to Guru Arjan, Nanak V, by Bhatt Bhikha who had himself become a Sikh in the time of Guru Amar Das.\n\nAccording to Bhai Gurdas, Varan, XI. 21, and Bhai Mani Singh, Sikhan di Bhagat Mala, he had once visited Guru Arjan with the sangat of Sultanpur Lodhi. Some of the Bhatts who came into the Sikh fold composed hymns in honour of the Gurus which were entered in the Guru Granth Sahib by Guru Arjan. These Bhatts and their successors too maintained their vahis in which they recorded information concerning the Gurus, their families and some of the eminent Sikhs. These old vahis are still preserved in the descendant families, now scattered mostly in Haryana state. Their script is bhattakshari, a kind of family code like lande or mahajani. During the late 1950s, a researcher, Giani Garja Singh, obtained Gurmukhi transcripts of some of the entries pertaining to the Guru period, from Guru Hargobind (15951644) to Guru Gobind singh ji.Some of these were published as footnotes to Shahid Bilas Bhai Mani Singh, edited by Giani Garja Singh and published by Punjabi Sahitya Akademi, Ludhiana, in 1961. The rest are still in manuscript form lying in the Department of Punjab Historical Studies, Punjabi University, Patiala. These extracts provide valuable information regarding dates, places and events of the period.\n\nAs contemporary evidence, Bhat Vahis have to be used with caution however, for they are not diaries of the eyewitnesses. It was customary for the Bhatts to visit their hereditary patrons usually twice a year at harvest time to sing their praises and receive rewards or customary donations as well as to collect information for record in their vahfs. These records are, therefore, based on information gathered generally after the occurrence of events and, possibly, sometimes received at second hand. This may not apply to entries regarding the Gurus which were recorded by Bhatts who generally remained in attendance. For instance, an entry about the conferment of guruship upon the Guru Granth Sahib in 1708 is by Bhatt Narbud Singh (son of Keso Singh and grandson of Bhatt Kirat whose hymns are included in the Holy Book) who had accompanied Guru Gobind Singh to Nanded. On the whole, these Bhatt Vahis are a mine of information of historical and sociological value.\n\n"}
{"id": "25689950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25689950", "title": "Blasphemy law in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Blasphemy law in the Republic of Ireland\n\nIn the state of Ireland, blasphemy is prohibited against any form of religion. Originally, it was limited to Christianity and was required to be prohibited by Article 40.6.1.i. of the 1937 Constitution. The common law offence of blasphemous libel, applicable only to Christianity and last prosecuted unsuccessfully in 1855, was ruled in 1999 to be incompatible with the Constitution's guarantee of religious equality. The deficit was filled in 2009 by a new offence of \"publication or utterance of blasphemous matter\", against any religion. The continued existence of a blasphemy offence is controversial, with proponents of freedom of speech and freedom of religion arguing it should be removed. The government formed in 2016 has committed to holding a referendum on abolishing the constitutional offence, which is required to amend the constitution. This referendum was held on 26 October 2018. Results showed the amendment to remove the blasphemy offense from the Irish Constitution passed by a margin of 64.85% to 35.15%. However, this does not repeal the 2009 Defamation Act, which enforces a fine of up to 25,000 euros (about $28,500) for blasphemy.\n\nThe legal system of Ireland grew out of the common law system of English law, and so Irish jurisprudence on blasphemy largely reflected that of England. The common law offence of blasphemous libel applied only to Christianity. Blasphemy could be committed by written or spoken words, by pictures or gestures. Profanity was generally regarded by legal scholars as synonymous with blasphemy. In 1328, Adam Duff O'Toole was burned alive in Dublin for alleged heresy and blasphemy. Initially tried under canon law, he was handed over to the civil power as a repeat offender. He was a member of the O'Toole family which launched Gaelic raids on the Anglo-Norman Pale, and modern historians regard the charges as politically motivated. In later times, the penalty for a first offence of blasphemous libel was an unlimited fine and imprisonment; for a second offence it was banishment. The Anglican Church of Ireland was the established church from 1536 to 1871. Whether the crime could be committed against a denomination other than the established church was unclear; John Kelly suggested not.\n\nAn act of 1634–5 made it an offence \"profanely swear or curse\"; this was replaced as \"ineffectual\" by the Profane Oaths Act 1695, which applied to profanity in the presence of a justice of the peace or mayor. It had fallen into disuse long before its repeal in 2007. Six bills to suppress \"blasphemy and profaneness\" were introduced in the Parliament of Ireland between 1697 and 1713, but none was passed into law. \n\nThere was a prosecution in the Kingdom of Ireland for blasphemous libel in 1703: Thomas Emlyn, a Unitarian minister, was fined £1,000 and imprisoned for one year for denying the Divinity of Christ. He remained in debtor's prison after his initial sentence until the fine was reduced to £70. Narcissus Marsh, the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Dublin, began a prosecution against a Presbyterian minister in Drogheda, which was dropped by the Dublin Castle administration sympathetic to dissenters. Other incidents that century did not result in prosecutions. In 1713, Peter Browne, bishop of Cork and Ross preached that loyal toasts to \"the glorious, pious, and immortal memory\" of King William were blasphemous. The same year, a convocation of the Church of Ireland recommended prosecution of Robert Molesworth for \"an indictable profanation of the holy scriptures\", after he had quoted Scripture in the course of an insult to their representatives at a viceregal levée. In 1756, Robert Clayton, Bishop of Clogher, questioned the Nicene Creed in a tract on religious tolerance; he was condemned by other bishops, but died before any prosecution for blasphemy was brought.\n\nIn 1852, in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, John Syngean Bridgman, a Franciscan friar, was convicted in County Mayo after burning an Authorized King James Bible. He viewed it as a souperist work inferior to the Catholic Douay-Rheims Bible. While the indictment described his actions as \"in contempt of the Protestant religion\", Judge Thomas Langlois Lefroy advised the jury \"it is not the version of the Scriptures which will warrant the commission of such an offence\" but rather \"a want of reverence to the Scriptures\". In 1855 at Kingstown, a Protestant Bible was burned on a bonfire of \"irreligious\" books organised by Vladimir Petcherine, a Redemptorist Catholic priest. He was acquitted of blasphemy after claiming he had not intended to burn any Bibles. The case, described by as David Lawton as banal and petty, was prosecuted by the Attorney-General for Ireland and the Solicitor-General for Ireland after a complaint from Methodist minister Robert Wallace.\n\nCommon law precedents persisted after the creation in 1922 of the Irish Free State, provided they were consistent with the 1922 Constitution, and later the current (1937) Constitution. The last British prosecution till 1977 was \"Bowman v Secular Society Limited\" in 1917. The Irish Law Reform Commission's 1991 consultation paper on the crime of libel states, \"if a case had arisen between Bowman in 1917 and 1937, it seems likely that an Irish court would have found the views in Bowman persuasive\".\n\nThe 1937 Constitution states \"The publication or utterance of blasphemous, seditious or indecent matter is an offence which shall be punishable in accordance with law\" and \"The State acknowledges that the homage of public worship is due to Almighty God. It shall hold His Name in reverence, and shall respect and honour religion.\" The Constitution also guarantees certain rights \"subject to public order and morality\", including citizens' right \"to express freely their convictions and opinions\" and \"[f]reedom of conscience and the free profession and practice of religion\". In 1960, Paul O'Higgins criticised the 1937 Constitution's blasphemy provision as introducing uncertainty, and possibly increased stricture, compared to the common law as developed to that date.\n\nIn 1957, \"The Rose Tattoo\" was produced at the inaugural Dublin Theatre Festival. Alan Simpson, owner of the Pike Theatre Club, was prosecuted for \"producing for gain an indecent and profane performance\", with obscenity later added to the charge. The play's detractors were concerned by its sexual content rather than religion. The Law Reform Commission's 1991 report comments \"the equation of indecency and obscenity with profanity is probably misconceived. Although profane matter may sometimes be obscene or indecent, it is not necessarily so.\"\n\nSection 13 of the Defamation Act, 1961 prescribed penalties for blasphemous libel, but did not define the offence, which was presumed still to be the common-law offence. The new maximum penalties were seven years' penal servitude, or two years' imprisonment and a £500 fine.\n\nThe only attempted prosecution since 1855 was in 1995–1999, when John Corway brought private prosecutions against three publications for coverage of the 1995 divorce referendum, specifically an article in \"Hot Press\" and two editorial cartoons, by Wendy Shea in the \"Irish Independent\" and Martyn Turner in \"The Irish Times\". The original cases were dismissed because of the lack of a definition of the crime of blasphemy, with that against Independent Newspapers and editor Aengus Fanning appealed as a test case to the High Court. Shea's cartoon depicted the government parties' leaders snubbing a Catholic priest who was holding out a Communion wafer. Corway submitted, \"As one professing and endeavouring to practise the Christian religion through membership of the Roman Catholic Church I have suffered offence and outrage by reason of the insult, ridicule and contempt shown towards the sacrament of the Eucharist as a result of the publication of the matter complained of herein and I am aware of other persons having also so suffered.\"\n\nHigh Court Justice Hugh Geoghegan ruled against Corway on the basis that there was no \"actus reus\", although there would have been \"mens rea\". He also said he would not have given leave to prosecute as it would not serve the public interest. Corway appealed the decision to the Supreme Court, which upheld it. It ruled that the 1937 Constitution had extinguished the common law offence, stating \"It is difficult to see how the common law crime of blasphemy, related as it was to an established Church and an established religion, could survive in ... a Constitution guaranteeing freedom of conscience, and the free profession and practice of religion.\" It refused to allow the prosecution, stating \"in the absence of any legislative definition of the constitutional offence of blasphemy, it is impossible to say of what the offence of blasphemy consists ... neither the \"actus reus\" nor the \"mens rea\" is clear. ... In the absence of legislation and in the present uncertain state of the law the Court could not see its way to authorising the institution of a criminal prosecution.\"\n\nThe Law Reform Commission's 1991 Report opined that \"there is no place for the offence of blasphemous libel in a society which respects freedom of speech\". It said the Prohibition of Incitement to Hatred Act 1989 provided an adequate protection for outrage against religious belief. However, since banning blasphemy is mandated by the Constitution, abolishing the offence would require a referendum. A referendum solely for that purpose \"would rightly be seen as a time wasting and expensive exercise\". The Commission's report, therefore, outlined criteria for a statutory definition of blasphemy which could serve until such time as Article 40.6.1.i might be changed as part of a broader Constitutional amendment. The 1996 report of the Oireachtas Constitution Review Group agreed that \"The retention of the present constitutional offence of blasphemy is not appropriate.\"\n\nThe Defamation Act 2009 (introduced as the Defamation Bill 2006) implemented many of the recommendations of the Commission's 1991 report. The bill as introduced omitted reference to blasphemy, pending a review by the Oireachtas Joint Committee on the Constitution. In March 2008, Brian Lenihan, then Minister for Justice, Equality and Law Reform, said:\n\nThe Joint Committee on the Constitution's report on Article 40.6.1.i. was published in July 2008. The Committee had discussed the case of comedian Tommy Tiernan, whose stand-up routine on \"The Late Late Show\" parodied the Gospels, offending many viewers. The Bar Council of Ireland made a presentation to the Committee, pointing out that blasphemy and treason were the only crimes specifically mentioned in the Constitution. Neville Cox stated:\n\nThe Oireachtas Committee's report concluded:\n\nOn 20 May 2009 at the Bill's committee stage, section 36, dealing with blasphemy was introduced by Minister for Justice Dermot Ahern as an amendment. Section 36 defines a new indictable offence of \"Publication or utterance of blasphemous matter\", which carries a maximum fine of €25,000. The offence consists of uttering material \"grossly abusive or insulting in relation to matters held sacred by any religion\", when the intent and result is \"outrage among a substantial number of the adherents of that religion\". A defence is permitted for work of \"genuine literary, artistic, political, scientific, or academic value\". \"Religion\" excludes profit-driven organisations or those using \"oppressive psychological manipulation\". Upon conviction under section 36, a court warrant can authorise the Garda Síochána (police) to enter premises to search for and seize any copies of the blasphemous material. Only the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) can instigate proceedings, as distinct from private prosecutions like \"Corway\".\n\nAhern said:\n\nMary McAleese, the President of Ireland, convened the Council of State to discuss whether the Bill should be referred to the Supreme Court to test its constitutionality; she decided not to do so. The bill became law when McAleese signed it on 23 July 2009, and came into force on 1 January 2010.\n\n no prosecution has ever been brought under the 2009 act.\n\nThe advocacy group Atheist Ireland responded to the enactment by announcing the formation of the \"Church of Dermotology\" (named after Dermot Ahern). On the date on which the law came into effect, it published a series of potentially blasphemous quotations on its website and vowed to challenge any resulting legal action.\n\nAfter the 2015 \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting, Ali Selim of the Islamic Cultural Centre of Ireland suggested that the blasphemy provision of the Defamation Act 2009 should be applied to any media outlet reproducing cartoons depicting Muhammad as part of the \"Je suis Charlie\" campaign. In 2016, the Irish Secretary of the National Union of Journalists said that \"Charlie Hebdo\" would have been in \"clear breach\" of the Irish law.\n\nIn 2016, Neville Cox said, \"My view is the 2009 act fulfilled a constitutional obligation on the crime of blasphemy, but skilfully rendered the law completely unenforceable. I am not saying that was the intention\". Dermot Ahern commented in 2017, \"We implemented the crime but made it in a way that it would be virtually impossible to prosecute.\"\n\nOn 6 May 2017, the \"Irish Independent\" said an unnamed man informed them that the Garda were looking into a formal complaint of blasphemy he had made against Stephen Fry and RTÉ after Fry's 2015 appearance on RTÉ's religion programme \"The Meaning of Life\". The complainant said that he was not personally offended by Fry's comments. Unofficial Garda sources said that a file would be sent to the DPP, who was \"highly unlikely\" to prosecute. On 8 May 2017, the Garda said they would not proceed with an investigation as no injured parties had come forward and they were \"unable to find a substantial number of outraged people\". Fry later said he had \"discovered from the person who actually framed the blasphemy law that it was deliberately framed in order to be unworkable.\" He thought it was a \"wonderfully Irish solution\" to the problem of outdated legislation that could not be repealed without a referendum that they \"just engineer[ed] it a little so that it became preposterous.\"\n\nAfter the 2009 Act, Atheist Ireland said that it would be holding a series of public meetings to launch a campaign for secular constitutional reform. In March 2010, Ahern's press officer said the minister might ask the cabinet to hold a referendum to remove the reference to blasphemy from the Constitution in autumn 2010, at the same time tentatively planned for a referendum on an amendment relating to children's rights. Asked about this in the Dáil, Ahern did not offer any commitment, but said:\n\nIn the event, no referendums were held before the dissolution of the 30th Dáil in January 2011. Before the ensuing general election, Atheist Ireland asked parties \"Do you believe that blasphemy should be a criminal offence?\" Fine Gael, Sinn Féin, and the Workers' Party said no, while Labour and the Green Party supported a referendum to remove the constitutional requirement. After the election, the Fine Gael–Labour coalition's programme for government promised a Constitutional Convention to discuss potential amendments, including \"Removing blasphemy from the Constitution\".\n\nThe Convention was established in December 2012, and received submissions on the blasphemy issue from various groups and individuals, mostly in favour of abolition. The Irish Council of Churches, a coalition of the main Christian churches in Ireland, described the provision as \"largely obsolete\". The Convention considered the issue at its seventh plenary session on 2–3 November 2013. Several submitters were invited to make presentations at the meeting. There were expert presentations from university academics Neville Cox, Eoin O'Dell, and Maeve Cooke; the Knights of Saint Columbanus, the Islamic Cultural Centre of Ireland, and an NUIG PhD student argued in favour of retention; while Atheist Ireland, the Humanist Association of Ireland, and the Irish Council of Civil Liberties argued for its removal. Convention members voted 61–38 against retaining the existing Constitutional prohibition of blasphemy; 53–38 in favour of replacing it with a prohibition of \"incitement to religious hatred\"; and 50–49 against having a statutory prohibition of blasphemy. If a statutory prohibition were used, members voted 81–11 in favour of a new provision rather than the 2009 act.\n\nIn October 2014, Minister of State Aodhán Ó Ríordáin gave the official government response to the Convention's report on blasphemy, announcing that it had decided to hold a referendum on the issue. In January 2015, Taoiseach Enda Kenny said there would not be a referendum on the issue before the next general election, due by April 2016. He said that two referendums were already to be held in 2015, on marriage equality and reducing the age of candidacy for the presidency, and any more might distract voters from focusing on the issues.\n\nAfter the election on 26 February 2016, protracted negotiations led to a Fine Gael–independent government on 7 May with confidence and supply support from Fianna Fáil. The government programme published on 11 May includes a commitment to holding a referendum on blasphemy. After the May 2017 story about Stephen Fry, a Department of Justice spokesperson said that it had undertaken \"preliminary consultations and preparatory work\" on the amendment, with future scheduling to be decided by the government. Simon Harris, the Minister for Health, said the existing law was \"silly, a little embarrassing and needs to be changed\". In the Dáil Gerry Adams asked Enda Kenny whether a referendum would be held in 2017; Kenny replied \"There are quite a number of referenda backed up, and they take time\". In September 2017, new Taoiseach Leo Varadkar gave an \"indicative timeline\" for planned referendums, with that on blasphemy in October 2018, simultaneous with the presidential election and two other referendums. \n\nIn June 2018 the Government approved the holding of the referendum. The Thirty-seventh Amendment of the Constitution Bill 2018 was formally introduced to the Dáil on 13 July. On 28 August the date of the Presidential election and hence the referendum was fixed for 26 October. On 5 September the other referendum planned for the same date was deferred until 2019.\n\nThe Censorship of Films Act 1923 mandates the Chief Censor to prohibit a film or scene \"unfit for general exhibition in public by reason of its being indecent, obscene or blasphemous\". A 1925 Amendment extended the power to ban advertisements for films. These powers are retained in the most recent legislation of 2008. \"Audrey Rose\" was banned in 1977 on the grounds that its treatment of reincarnation amounted to \"heresy\". The Censor (now called the Director of Film Classification) has wide discretion in interpreting the statutory criteria: \"Monty Python's Life of Brian\" was banned by Frank Hall in 1980 for being blasphemous; when resubmitted in 1987 it was passed uncut by his successor Sheamus Smith. These Acts apply only to cinema films; the Video Recordings Act 1989 does not include blasphemy as grounds for prohibition, but does include \"incitement of religious hatred\" as grounds for censorship or an outright ban (refusal of certification). In September 2016, reports that the lack of an Irish release for \"My Scientology Movie\" was due to the blasphemy laws were dismissed by \"The Irish Times\" as media flim-flam; Neville Cox said the laws were \"of no relevance\" to the situation.\n\nThe Censorship of Publications Acts (1929 and 1946) did not include blasphemy among possible grounds for banning, which were indecency, obscenity, promotion of \"unnatural\" contraception or abortion, and (in the case of periodicals) excessive focus on crime. In the debate on the 1946 Bill, Senator Louis O'Dea suggested adding blasphemy as a criterion.\n\nThe Advertising Standards Authority for Ireland's voluntary code of conduct requires advertising to \"avoid causing offence on grounds of ... religion\" and not to \"ridicule or exploit religious beliefs, symbols, rites or practices\". A 2005 Paddy Power poster, parodying Leonardo da Vinci's \"The Last Supper\" with Jesus and the apostles in a casino, was withdrawn for breaching the religion guidelines as well as \"taste and decency\".\n\nThe crime of sacrilege was defined, under the Larceny Act 1861 and the Larceny Act 1916, as breaking and entering a church (\"place of divine worship\") and committing any felony. Sacrilege was the charge used to prosecute theft from church poor boxes. It was abolished as a separate crime by the Criminal Law (Jurisdiction) Act 1976 whereby several types of breaking and entering were replaced by the single crime of burglary.\n\nOn October 26, 2018, Ireland held a referendum which saw voters repeal the Blasphemy offence by a margin of 64.85% to 35.15%. Nevertheless, blasphemy bans are still enforced under the 2009 Defamation Act.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3810989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3810989", "title": "Citizens for Social Reform", "text": "Citizens for Social Reform\n\nCitizens for Social Reform (CSRPAC) was a political action committee founded in 2001 by Scientologists. Its primary mission was \"to work with elected officials toward the goal of bringing about more humane and effective solutions to social ills like illiteracy, criminality, substance abuse and the general decay of moral character\", mainly by promoting Scientology associated programs including Narconon, Criminon, Applied Scholastics and CCHR with legislators at the US federal and state levels. CSRPAC went inactive on June 30, 2007.\n\nTheir website, csrpac.org, while often avoiding direct references to the Church of Scientology, used much L. Ron Hubbard-based language. An entire section on their site was devoted to a \"Citizen Hat\" treatise listing Scientology books such as \"The Antisocial Personality\" and \"The Thinking Book\" side by side with basic civics texts such as \"The Federalist Papers\" and the U.S. Constitution. The \"Citizen Hat\" was illustrated by Scientologist Virginia Romero. CSR's website also dealt with anti-psychiatry issues, a key topic for Scientologists.\n\nThe former president of CSRPAC was Don Pearson. Corporation records show that Don Pearson opened a local chapter of the Citizen’s Commission in 1998. Pearson also set up a political action committee called the Association of Citizens for Social Reform, for the purpose of eliminating \"public support for social, educational and mental health programs that are intrusive, force-based or damaging to individual awareness and competence.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6071961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6071961", "title": "Conrad of Megenberg", "text": "Conrad of Megenberg\n\nConrad of Megenberg (, ; 1309–1374) was a German Catholic scholar, and a writer.\n\nConrad was born in either Mainberg or Mebenburg, both in Bavaria. He was born on 2 February 1309. Conrad himself calls his native place Megenberg, hence continued confusion on his birthplace. He studied at Erfurt and the University of Paris; at the latter university he obtained the degree of Master of Arts, and he taught philosophy and theology at the University of Paris for several years.\n\nBy 1337 he was living in Vienna. That year he became head of St. Stephen's school. He relocated, in 1342, to Regensburg. There, he became a priest, then a preacher, and eventually a cathedral canon. He was also a member of the local town council. In 1357 he made a journey to the Papal Curia in 'Babylonian exile' at Avignon. He died at Ratisbon (and alternative name for Regensburg) on 11 April 1374.\n\nConrad was one of the most prolific German writers of the fourteenth century. He wrote over thirty books. His best-known and most widely read work is his \"Buch der Natur\". According to his own statement he was engaged in writing it in 1349. A Latin work, \"De naturis rerum\", of the Dominican Thomas of Cantimpré (d. 1263), served as model. Conrad, however, prepared his book with considerable freedom; much of the original was omitted, his own observations were introduced, corrections were made, and so on. His work gives a survey of all that was known of natural history at that time and is, besides, the first natural history in the German language. It was widely read up to the sixteenth century, and numerous manuscript copies of it are still extant, eighteen being at Munich. The first printed edition with a date is of 1475, and was issued at Augsburg from the shop of Hans BŠmler, under the title of \"Puch der Natur\". It was printed at least six times before 1500; some of the editions were illustrated, all are now rare incunabula. A new edition of the original text was issued by Franz Pfeiffer (Stuttgart, 1861), with an introduction; an edition in modern German was edited by H. Schulz (Greifswald, 1897).\n\nThe work has eight chapters\n\nOf Conrad's numerous other writings there should be mentioned:\n\nIn his writings Conrad shows himself to be a strong adherent of the pope, an opponent of the philosophy of Occam, and a stern critic of the moral failings of his age and of the clergy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2455727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2455727", "title": "Darwin Gross", "text": "Darwin Gross\n\nDarwin Gross (1928–2008) was an American spiritual teacher who succeeded to the leadership of Eckankar in 1971 at the death of its founder Paul Twitchell. Gross officially took up the position of \"Living ECK Master\" on October 22, 1971 and appointed his successor Harold Klemp as Living ECK Master on October 22, 1981, though Gross later claimed Klemp failed to fully succeed to the position. Gross claimed to continue afterwards as the Living Eck Master, though he was precluded from continuing to use the Eck terminology.\n\nDarwin Gross was born in 1928 in Denhoff, North Dakota. He was brought up in the Mennonite faith. As a young man, he served with the US 11th Airborne Division in Japan following World War II. Later, Gross worked as an engineer, acquiring gigs on the side as a jazz musician. He described in his books a childhood filled with encounters and learning from many of the spiritual teachers of Eckankar. The moment he found the writings of Paul Twitchell, he recognized this as the same teaching he had been receiving inwardly since childhood. He began studying Twitchell's mail-order discourses and soon wrote to Twitchell asking how he could help set up classes in the Portland, Oregon, area where he lived. Twitchell wrote back in November 1969, encouraging Gross to start some of the first ECK Satsang classes in the Northwestern United States. Gross continued taking on greater responsibilities with Eckankar and on many occasions traveled with Paul Twitchell to Eckankar Seminars. Gross gained the Eckankar title of leadership, the \"Living ECK Master\", upon Twitchell's death in October 1971.\n\nOn October 22, 1981, Darwin Gross's health problems led him to publicly appoint Harold Klemp as the Living ECK Master. Gross retained management responsibilities, running the corporate organization of Eckankar until 1983. In 1983 Gross was voted out of his position by the Eckankar Board of Directors under controversial circumstances involving unproven charges that he misappropriated Eckankar corporate funds. As Klemp entered an exclusive leadership role, the Eckankar corporate structure was changed in the State of California. This gave Klemp new authority in leadership as the only voting member of the Eckankar corporation. This change, considered by Gross as a \"hostile takeover\" of the corporation, was formally filed in the State of California on June 20, 1985. The policies giving Klemp exclusive powers were changed in Eckankar's Minnesota corporate papers on January 30, 1987, and were also changed in the Eckankar Nevada corporate papers on December 21, 1987.\n\nFollowing the rift in ECKANKAR leadership in 1983, most members of Eckankar chose to follow Harold Klemp, but a number joined Darwin Gross and continue to learn under his new organization: \"ATOM: Ancient Teachings of the Masters,\" in which he claimed to carry on the original teachings of Paul Twitchell.\n\nIn 1988, \"The John Ankerberg Show\" interviewed Gross in reference to his continued use of the term \"Mahanta\" (the inner spiritual master revered in Eckankar), and he said, \"I always looked at myself as not the Mahanta but a vehicle for it.\"\n\nGross died on March 8, 2008 at the age of 80. According to the ATOM website, \"Darwin’s Living Trust provides that his writings, music and unpublished works shall be held in trust to carry on his memory and life’s work as well as his predecessor’s, Paul Twitchell. The Teachings will continue to be made available to those who are interested in this most direct path to God.\" \n\nOne seldom revealed aftermath of the fork caused by the hostile corporate pushout of Darwin Gross from Eckankar was his many devoted and true believers. The caustic dilemma of this corporate in-fighting forced many eckists at the time to have to pick between Eckankar the religion and Darwin their ECK Master. This was akin to having a child decide if they loved their \"good parent\" more than their \"bad parent\" while being informed by the \"good parent\" that the \"bad parent\" was \"truly bad\". And though it may very well have been a wise business decision (at the time) by the board of directors of the Corporation of Eckankar to dump Darwin, the schism this situation caused opened Eckankar as a religion up to further divisions and splinter groups in the future.\n\nDuring the decade of his leadership of Eckankar, Gross expanded the physical organization and membership of Eckankar substantially. His leadership was considered important for the followers of Eckankar during the time, prior to his 1983 expulsion from Eckankar.\n\nCurrent ATOM students of Darwin Gross, who still study his discourses and books, consider Gross to be a very ancient master. Gross, like his teacher Paul Twitchell - the originator of Eckankar, is regarded as a spiritual master who descended from an ancient and direct line extending into a history that is said to predate the early history and existence of our planet and solar system. The mythology of the ECK Masters is outlined in Twitchell's \"The Spiritual Notebook\".PDF\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7891", "title": "David Lynch", "text": "David Lynch\n\nDavid Keith Lynch (born January 20, 1946) is an American filmmaker, painter, musician, actor, and photographer. He has been described by \"The Guardian\" as \"the most important director of this era\", while AllMovie called him \"the Renaissance man of modern American filmmaking\". His films \"Blue Velvet\" (1986) and \"Mulholland Drive\" (2001) are widely regarded by critics to be among the greatest films of their respective decades, while the success of his 1990–91 television series \"Twin Peaks\" led to his being labeled \"the first popular Surrealist\" by film critic Pauline Kael. He has received three Academy Award nominations for Best Director, and has won France's César Award for Best Foreign Film twice, as well as the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival and a Golden Lion award for lifetime achievement at the Venice Film Festival. In 2016, \"Mulholland Drive\", was named the top film of the 21st century by the BBC following a poll of 177 film critics from 36 countries.\n\nBorn to a middle-class family in Missoula, Montana, Lynch spent his childhood traveling around the United States before he studied painting at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in Philadelphia, where he first made the transition to producing short films. He moved to Los Angeles, where he produced his first motion picture, the surrealist horror film \"Eraserhead\" (1977). After \"Eraserhead\" became a cult classic on the midnight movie circuit, Lynch was employed to direct the biographical film \"The Elephant Man\" (1980), from which he gained mainstream success. He was then employed by the De Laurentiis Entertainment Group and proceeded to make two films: the science-fiction epic \"Dune\" (1984), which proved to be a critical and commercial failure, and then a neo-noir mystery film \"Blue Velvet\" (1986), which stirred controversy over its violence but later grew in critical reputation.\n\nNext, Lynch created his own television series with Mark Frost, the popular murder mystery \"Twin Peaks\" (1990–1991). He also created a cinematic prequel, \"\" (1992), a road film \"Wild at Heart\" (1990) and a family film \"The Straight Story\" (1999) in the same period. Turning further towards surrealist filmmaking, three of his subsequent films operated on dream logic non-linear narrative structures: \"Lost Highway\" (1997), \"Mulholland Drive\" (2001), and \"Inland Empire\" (2006). Meanwhile, Lynch embraced the Internet as a medium, producing several web-based shows, such as the animated \"DumbLand\" (2002) and the surreal sitcom \"Rabbits\" (2002). Lynch and Frost reunited for the Showtime limited series \"Twin Peaks: The Return\" (2017), with Lynch co-writing and directing every episode.\n\nLynch's other artistic endeavours include: his work as a musician, encompassing two solo albums—\"Crazy Clown Time\" (2011) and \"The Big Dream\" (2013)—as well as music and sound design for a variety of his films; painting and photography; writing three books—\"Images\" (1994), \"Catching the Big Fish\" (2006), and Room to Dream (2018); and directing several music videos and advertisements, including the Dior promotional film \"Lady Blue Shanghai\" (2006). An avid practitioner of Transcendental Meditation (TM), Lynch founded the David Lynch Foundation in 2005, which sought to fund the teaching of TM in schools and has since widened its scope to other at-risk populations, including the homeless, veterans and refugees.\n\nLynch was born in Missoula, Montana, on January 20, 1946. His father, Donald Walton Lynch (1915–2007), was a research scientist working for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and his mother, Edwina \"Sunny\" Lynch (\"née\" Sundholm; 1919–2004), was an English language tutor. Two of Lynch's maternal great-grandparents were Finnish, and had immigrated to the United States from Finland in the 19th century. Lynch was raised a Presbyterian.\n\nThe Lynch family often moved around according to where the USDA assigned Donald. It was because of this that when he was two months old, Lynch moved with his parents to Sandpoint, Idaho, and only two years after that, following the birth of his brother John, the family moved to Spokane, Washington. It was here that Lynch's sister Martha was born. The family then moved to Durham, North Carolina, then Boise, Idaho, and then Alexandria, Virginia. Lynch found this transitory early life relatively easy to adjust to, noting that he found it fairly easy to meet new friends whenever he started attending a new school. Commenting on much of his early life, Lynch has remarked:\n\nAlongside his schooling, Lynch joined the Boy Scouts, although he would later note that he only \"became [a Scout] so I could quit and put it behind me\". He rose to the highest rank of Eagle Scout. It was through being an Eagle Scout that he was present with other Boy Scouts outside of the White House at the inauguration of President John F. Kennedy, which took place on Lynch's birthday in 1961. Lynch had become interested in painting and drawing from an early age, becoming intrigued by the idea of pursuing it as a career path when living in Virginia, where his friend's father was a professional painter.\n\nAt Francis C. Hammond High School in Alexandria, Lynch did poorly academically, having little interest in school work, but was popular with other students, and after leaving decided that he wanted to study painting at college, beginning his studies at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston in 1964, where he was a roommate of Peter Wolf. Nonetheless, he left the School of the Museum of Fine Arts after only a year, stating that \"I was not inspired AT ALL in that place\", and instead deciding that he wanted to travel around Europe for three years with his friend Jack Fisk, who was similarly unhappy with his studies at Cooper Union. They had some hopes that in Europe they could train with the expressionist painter Oskar Kokoschka at his school. Upon reaching Salzburg, however, they found that he was not available and, disillusioned, returned to the United States after spending only 15 days of their planned three years in Europe.\n\nBack in the United States, Lynch returned to Virginia, but since his parents had moved to Walnut Creek, California, he stayed with his friend Toby Keeler for a while. He decided to move to the city of Philadelphia and enroll at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, after advice from Jack Fisk, who was already enrolled there. He preferred this college to his previous school in Boston, claiming that \"In Philadelphia there were great and serious painters, and everybody was inspiring one another and it was a beautiful time there.\" It was here that he began a relationship with a fellow student, Peggy Reavey, and they were married in 1967. The following year, Peggy gave birth to their daughter Jennifer. Later describing this situation, Peggy stated that \"[Lynch] definitely was a reluctant father, but a very loving one. Hey, I was pregnant when we got married. We were both reluctant.\" As a family, they moved to the Fairmount neighborhood of Philadelphia, where they were able to purchase a large 12-room house for the relatively low price of $3,500 due to the high crime and poverty rates in the area. Later describing living there, Lynch stated that\n\nMeanwhile, to help financially support his family alongside his art studies, he took up a job printing engravings.\n\nAt the Pennsylvania Academy Lynch made his first short film, which was titled \"Six Men Getting Sick (Six Times)\" (1967). He had first come up with the idea when he developed a wish to see his paintings move, and he subsequently began discussing the idea of creating an animation with an artist named Bruce Samuelson. When this project never came about, Lynch decided to work on a film alone, and so purchased the cheapest 16mm camera that he could find in order to do so. Taking one of the abandoned upper rooms of the Academy as a working space, he spent $150 – which at the time he felt to be a lot of money – to produce \"Six Men Getting Sick\". Describing the work as \"57 seconds of growth and fire, and three seconds of vomit\", Lynch played the film on a loop at the Academy's annual end-of-year exhibit, where it shared joint first prize with a painting by Noel Mahaffey. This led to a commission from one of his fellow students, the wealthy H. Barton Wasserman, who offered him $1000 to create a film installation in his home. Spending $478.28 of that on purchasing the second-hand Bolex camera \"of [his] dreams\", Lynch produced a new animated short, but upon getting the film developed, realized that the result was simply a blurred, frameless print. As he would later relate, \"So I called up Bart [Wasserman] and said, 'Bart, the film is a disaster. The camera was broken and what I've done hasn't turned out.' And he said, 'Don't worry, David, take the rest of the money and make something else for me. Just give me a print.' End of story.\"\nUsing this leftover money, Lynch decided to experiment on making a work that was a mix of animation with live action, producing a four-minute short called \"The Alphabet\" (1968). The film starred Lynch's wife Peggy as a character known as The Girl, who chants the alphabet to a series of images of horses before dying at the end by hemorrhaging blood all over her bed sheets. Adding a sound effect, Lynch used a broken Uher tape recorder to record the sound of his baby daughter Jennifer crying, creating a distorted sound that Lynch felt to be particularly effective. Later describing what had inspired him, Lynch stated that \"Peggy's niece was having a bad dream one night and was saying the alphabet in her sleep in a tormented way. So that's sort of what started \"The Alphabet\" going. The rest of it was just subconscious.\"\n\nLearning about the newly founded American Film Institute, which gave grants to film makers who could support their application with a prior work and a script for a new project, Lynch decided to send them a copy of \"The Alphabet\" along with a script that he had written for a new short film, one that would be almost entirely live action, named \"The Grandmother\". The Institute agreed to help finance the work, initially offering him $5000 out of his requested budget of $7,200, but later granting him the additional $2,200 that he had requested. Starring people he knew from both work and college and filmed in his own house, \"The Grandmother\" featured a neglected boy who \"grows\" a grandmother from a seed to care for him. The film critics Michelle Le Blanc and Colin Odell later remarked that \"this film is a true oddity but contains many of the themes and ideas that would filter into his later work, and shows a remarkable grasp of the medium\".\n\nIn 1971, Lynch moved with his wife and daughter to Los Angeles, where he began studying filmmaking at the AFI Conservatory, a place that he would later describe as being \"completely chaotic and disorganized, which was great ... you quickly learned that if you were going to get something done, you would have to do it yourself. They wanted to let people do their thing.\" He began writing a script for a proposed work titled \"Gardenback\", which had \"unfolded from this painting I'd done\". In this venture he was supported by a number of figures at the Conservatory, who encouraged him to lengthen the script and add more dialogue, something that he reluctantly agreed to do. Nonetheless, with all the interference on his \"Gardenback\" project, he became fed up with the Conservatory and quit after returning to start the second year and being put in first year classes. Dean of the AFI, Frank Daniel, asked Lynch to reconsider, believing that he was one of the school's best students. Lynch agreed on the condition that he could create his own project that would not be interfered with. Feeling that \"Gardenback\" was \"wrecked\", he instead set about on a new film, which he called \"Eraserhead\".\n\nDespite the fact that the film was planned to be about forty-two minutes long (it ended up being eighty-nine minutes long), the script for \"Eraserhead\" was only 21 pages long, and Lynch was able to create the film free from interference. Filming, which began on May 29, 1972, took place at night in some abandoned stables, allowing the production team, which was largely Lynch and some of his friends, including Sissy Spacek, Jack Fisk, cinematographer Frederick Elmes and sound designer Alan Splet to set up a camera room, green room, editing room, sets as well as a food room and a bathroom. Initially, funding for the project came from the AFI, who gave Lynch a $10,000 grant, but it was not enough to complete the work, and under pressure from studios after the success of the relatively cheap feature film \"Easy Rider\", they were unable to provide him with any more. Lynch was then supported by a loan from his father, and by money that he was able to bring in from a paper route that he took up delivering the \"Wall Street Journal\". Not long into the production of \"Eraserhead\", Lynch and his wife Peggy amicably separated and divorced, and so he began living full-time on set. In 1977, Lynch would remarry, this time to Mary Fisk, sister of Jack Fisk.\n\nLynch has stated that not a single reviewer of the film understood it the way that he intended. Filmed in black and white, \"Eraserhead\" tells the story of a quiet young man named Henry (Jack Nance) living in a dystopian industrial wasteland, whose girlfriend gives birth to a deformed baby whom she leaves in his care. It was heavily influenced by the fearful mood of Philadelphia, and Lynch referred to the film as \"my \"Philadelphia Story\"\".\n\nDue to financial problems the filming of \"Eraserhead\" was haphazard, regularly stopping and starting again. It was in one such break in 1974 that Lynch created a short film titled \"The Amputee\", which is a short one-shot film about two minutes long. David Lynch proposed that he make the film which would become \"The Amputee\" to present to AFI to test two different types of film stock.\n\n\"Eraserhead\" was finally finished in 1976, after five years of production. Lynch subsequently tried to get the film entered into the Cannes Film Festival, but while some reviewers liked it, others felt that it was awful, and so it was not selected for screening. Similarly, reviewers from the New York Film Festival also rejected it, though it was screened at the Los Angeles Film Festival, where Ben Barenholtz, the distributor of the Elgin Theater, heard about it. He was very supportive of the movie, helping to distribute it around the United States in 1977, and \"Eraserhead\" subsequently became popular on the midnight movie underground circuit, and was later described as one of the most important midnight movies of the seventies along with \"El Topo\", \"Pink Flamingos\", \"The Rocky Horror Picture Show\", \"The Harder They Come\" and \"Night of the Living Dead\". The acclaimed film maker Stanley Kubrick said that it was one of his all-time favorite films.\n\nAfter the cult success of \"Eraserhead\" on the underground circuit, Stuart Cornfeld, an executive producer for Mel Brooks, saw it and later remarked that \"I was just 100 percent blown away ... I thought it was the greatest thing I'd ever seen. It was such a cleansing experience.\" Contacting Lynch, he agreed to help him with his next planned project, a film titled \"Ronnie Rocket\" for which Lynch had already written a script. However, Lynch soon realized that \"Ronnie Rocket\", a film that he described as being about \"electricity and a three-foot guy with red hair\", was not going to be picked up by any financiers, and so he asked Cornfeld to find him a script written by someone else which he could direct. Cornfeld found him four possible scripts. On hearing the title of the first, \"The Elephant Man\", Lynch chose the script.\n\n\"The Elephant Man\" script, written by Chris de Vore and Eric Bergren, was based on a true story, that of Joseph Merrick, a heavily deformed man living in Victorian London, who was held in a sideshow but was later taken under the care of a London surgeon, Frederick Treves. Lynch wanted to make some alterations that would alter the story from true events, but in his view make a better plot. However, in order to do so he would have to get the permission of Mel Brooks, whose company, Brooksfilms, would be responsible for production; subsequently Brooks viewed \"Eraserhead\", and after coming out of the screening theatre, embraced Lynch, declaring that \"You're a madman, I love you! You're in.\"\n\nThe resulting film, \"The Elephant Man\", starred John Hurt as John Merrick (his name was changed from Joseph), as well as Anthony Hopkins as Frederick Treves. Filming took place in London, and Lynch brought his own distinctively surrealist approach to the film, filming it in color stock black and white. Nonetheless it has been described as \"one of the most conventional\" of his films. \"The Elephant Man\" was a huge critical and commercial success, and earned eight Academy Award nominations, including Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay for Lynch personally.\n\nFollowing on from the success of \"The Elephant Man\", the filmmaker George Lucas, himself a fan of \"Eraserhead\", offered Lynch the opportunity to direct the third film in his \"Star Wars\" trilogy, \"Return of the Jedi\". Lynch refused, arguing that Lucas should direct the film himself as the movie should reflect his own vision, not Lynch's take on it. Soon after, however, the opportunity to direct another big-budget science fiction epic arose when Dino de Laurentiis of the De Laurentiis Entertainment Group asked him to create a film adaptation of Frank Herbert's science fiction novel \"Dune\" (1965). Lynch agreed, and in doing so was also contractually obliged to produce two other works for the company. He then set about writing a script based upon the original novel, initially with both Chris de Vore and Eric Bergren, and then just by himself when De Laurentiis wasn't happy with their ideas. Lynch also helped build some of the sets, attempting to create \"a certain look\" for the film, and he particularly enjoyed building the set for the oil planet of Giedi Prime, for which he \"used steel, bolts, and porcelain to construct\" it.\n\n\"Dune\" is set in the far future, when humans live in an interstellar empire under a feudal system. The main character, Paul Atreides (played by Kyle MacLachlan), is the son of a noble who takes control of the desert planet Arrakis, which grows the rare spice melange, the most highly prized commodity in the empire. Lynch, however, was unhappy with the work, later remarking that \"\"Dune\" was a kind of studio film. I didn't have final cut. And, little by little, I was subconsciously making compromises\" [to his own vision]. Much of his footage was eventually removed from the final theatrical cut, dramatically condensing the plot. Although De Laurentiis hoped it would be as successful as \"Star Wars\", Lynch's \"Dune\" (1984) was a critical and commercial dud; it had cost $45 million to make, and grossed a mere $27.4 million domestically. Later on, Universal Studios released an \"extended cut\" of the film for syndicated television, containing almost an hour of cutting-room-floor footage and new narration. Such was not representative of Lynch's intentions, but the studio considered it more comprehensible than the original two-hour version. Lynch objected to these changes and had his name struck from the extended cut, which has \"Alan Smithee\" credited as the director and \"Judas Booth\" (a pseudonym which Lynch himself invented, inspired by his own feelings of betrayal) as the screenwriter.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1983, he had begun the writing and drawing of a comic strip, \"The Angriest Dog in the World\", which featured unchanging graphics of a tethered dog that was so angry that it could not move, alongside cryptic philosophical references. It ran from 1983 until 1992 in the \"Village Voice\", \"Creative Loafing\" and other tabloid and alternative publications. It was around this period that Lynch also became interested in photography as an art form, and travelled to northern England to take photos of the degrading industrial landscape, something that he was particularly interested in.\n\nFollowing on from \"Dune\", Lynch was contractually still obliged to produce two other projects for De Laurentiis: the first of these was a planned sequel, which due to the film's lack of success never went beyond the script stage. The other was a more personal work, based upon a script that Lynch had been working on for some time. Developing from ideas that Lynch had had since 1973, the resulting film, \"Blue Velvet\", was set in the fictional town of Lumberton, USA, and revolves around a college student named Jeffrey Beaumont (Kyle MacLachlan), who finds a severed ear in a field. Subsequently, investigating further with the help of friend Sandy (Laura Dern), he uncovers that it is related to a criminal gang led by psychopath Frank Booth (Dennis Hopper), who has kidnapped the husband and child of singer Dorothy Vallens (Isabella Rossellini) and repeatedly subjects her to rape. Lynch himself characterizes the story as \"a dream of strange desires wrapped inside a mystery story\".\n\nFor the film, Lynch decided to include pop songs from the 1960s, including \"In Dreams\" by Roy Orbison and \"Blue Velvet\" by Bobby Vinton, the latter of which was largely inspirational for the film, with Lynch stating that \"It was the song that sparked the movie ... There was something mysterious about it. It made me think about things. And the first things I thought about were lawns – lawns and the neighborhood.\" Other music for the film was also produced, this time composed by Angelo Badalamenti, who would go on to produce the music for most of Lynch's subsequent cinematic works. Dino de Laurentiis loved the film, and it achieved support from some of the early specialist screenings, but the preview screenings to a mainstream audience were instead highly negative, with most of the audience hating the film. Although Lynch had found success previously with \"The Elephant Man\", \"Blue Velvet\"s controversy with audiences and critics introduced him into the mainstream, and it became a huge critical and moderate commercial success. The film earned Lynch his second Academy Award nomination for Best Director. Woody Allen, whose film \"Hannah and Her Sisters\" was nominated for Best Picture, said that \"Blue Velvet\" was his favorite film of the year.\n\nDuring the late 1980s, Lynch had begun to work in television as well as cinema, directing a short piece titled \"The Cowboy and the Frenchman\" for French television in 1989. Around this time, he met the television producer Mark Frost, who had formerly worked on such projects as the television police series \"Hill Street Blues\", and they decided to start working together on a biopic of singer and actress Marilyn Monroe based upon Anthony Summers's book, \"The Goddess: The Secret Lives of Marilyn Monroe\". While this project never got off the ground, the duo went on to work on a comedy script named \"One Saliva Bubble\", but that did not see completion either. While they were talking in a coffee shop, Lynch and Frost had the idea of a corpse washing up on the shore of a lake, and subsequently set about on their third project, initially called \"Northwest Passage\" but would eventually become the television series \"Twin Peaks\" (1990–1991).\nA drama series set in a small Washington town where popular high school student Laura Palmer has been murdered, \"Twin Peaks\" featured FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper (Kyle MacLachlan) as the investigator trying to unearth the killer, and discovering not only the supernatural elements to the murder but also the secrets of many of the local townsfolk; as Lynch himself summed it up, \"The project was to mix a police investigation with the ordinary lives of the characters.\" Lynch later revealed that \"[Mark Frost and I] worked together, especially in the initial stages. Later on we started working more apart.\" They pitched the series to the ABC Network, who agreed to finance the pilot episode and eventually commissioned the first season, comprising seven episodes.\n\nA second season went into production soon on 22 additional episodes. Lynch himself only directed six episodes of the series, devoting his time to working on the film \"Wild at Heart\", but carefully chose the directors for other episodes. Lynch appeared in several episodes of the series as the deaf FBI agent Gordon Cole. The series was a success, with high ratings both in the United States and in many nations abroad, and soon spawned a cult following. Executives at the ABC Network, however, believed that public interest in the show was decreasing. The network insisted that Lynch and Frost reveal who the killer of Laura Palmer was prematurely, which they begrudgingly agreed to do. Lynch felt that agreeing to do so is one of his biggest professional regrets. Following the revealing of the murderer and the series' move from Thursday to Saturday night, \"Twin Peaks\" continued for several more episodes, but was cancelled following a ratings drop. Lynch, who disliked the direction that the writers and directors took in the previous episodes, directed the final episode. He ended the season on a cliffhanger, later remarking that \"that's not the ending. That's the ending that people were stuck with.\"\n\nWhile \"Twin Peaks\" was in production, the Brooklyn Academy of Music asked Lynch and the composer Angelo Badalamenti, who had been responsible for the music in \"Twin Peaks\", to create a theatrical piece which would be performed only twice in 1989 as a part of the New Music America Festival. The result was \"Industrial Symphony No. 1: The Dream of the Broken Hearted\", which starred frequent Lynch collaborators such as Laura Dern, Nicolas Cage and Michael J. Anderson, and contained five songs sung by Julee Cruise. David Lynch produced a fifty-minute video of the performance in 1990. Meanwhile, Lynch was also involved in the creation of various commercials for different companies, including perfume companies like Yves Saint Laurent, Calvin Klein and Giorgio Armani and the Japanese coffee company Namoi, which featured a Japanese man searching the town of Twin Peaks for his missing wife.\n\nWhile Lynch was working on the first few episodes of \"Twin Peaks\", his friend Monty Montgomery \"gave me a book that he wanted to direct as a movie. He asked if I would maybe be executive producer or something, and I said 'That's great, Monty, but what if I read it and fall in love with it and want to do it myself?' And he said, 'In that case, you can do it yourself'.\" The book was Barry Gifford's novel \"Wild at Heart: The Story of Sailor and Lula\", which told the tale of two lovers on a road trip. Lynch felt that it was \"just exactly the right thing at the right time. The book and the violence in America merged in my mind and many different things happened.\" With Gifford's support, Lynch adapted the novel into a film called \"Wild at Heart\", a crime and road movie starring Nicolas Cage as Sailor and Laura Dern as Lula. Describing his plot as a \"strange blend\" of \"a road picture, a love story, a psychological drama and a violent comedy\", Lynch altered much from the original novel, changing the ending and incorporating numerous references to the classic film \"The Wizard of Oz\". Despite receiving a muted response from American critics and viewers, it won the Palme d'Or at the 1990 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nFollowing on from the success of \"Wild at Heart\", Lynch decided to return to the world of the now-cancelled \"Twin Peaks\", this time without Mark Frost, to create a film that acted primarily as a prequel but also, in part, as a sequel, with Lynch stating that \"I liked the idea of the story going back and forth in time.\" The result, \"\" (1992), primarily revolved around the last few days in the life of Laura Palmer, and was much \"darker\" in tone than the television series, having much of the humour removed, and dealing with such topics as incest and murder. Lynch himself stated that the film was about \"the loneliness, shame, guilt, confusion and devastation of the victim of incest\". \"Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me\" was financed by the company CIBY-2000, and most of the cast of the series agreed to reprise their roles for the film, although some refused and many were not enthusiastic about the project. The film was a commercial and critical failure in the United States; however, it was a hit in Japan and some critics, such as Mark Kermode, have hailed it as Lynch's \"masterpiece\".\n\nMeanwhile, Lynch worked with Mark Frost on some new television shows. After \"Twin Peaks\", they produced a series of documentaries titled \"American Chronicles\" (1990) which examined life across the United States, the comedy series \"On the Air\" (1992), which was cancelled after only three episodes had aired, and the three-episode HBO miniseries \"Hotel Room\" (1993) about events that happen in one hotel room but on different dates.\n\nFollowing these unsuccessful television ventures, Lynch returned to making feature films. In 1997 he released the non-linear, noiresque \"Lost Highway\", which was co-written by Barry Gifford and starred Bill Pullman and Patricia Arquette. The film failed commercially and received a mixed response from critics.\n\nFollowing \"Lost Highway\", Lynch began work directing a film from a script written by Mary Sweeney and John E. Roach. The resulting motion picture, \"The Straight Story\" was based upon a true story: that of Alvin Straight (played in the film by Richard Farnsworth), an elderly man from Laurens, Iowa, who goes on a three hundred mile journey to visit his sick brother (played by Harry Dean Stanton) in Mount Zion, Wisconsin, riding a lawnmower for the entire journey. Commenting on why he chose this script, Lynch said that \"that's what I fell in love with next\", and displayed his admiration for Straight, describing him as \"like James Dean, except he's old\". Angelo Badalamenti again produced the music for the film, although it was \"very different from the kind of score he's done for [Lynch] in the past\".\n\nAmong the many differences with his earlier films, \"The Straight Story\" did not contain profanities, sexual content or violence; it was rated G (general viewing) by the Motion Picture Association of America, which came as \"shocking news\" to many in the film industry, who were surprised that it \"did not disturb, offend or mystify\". As Le Blanc and Odell stated, the plot made it \"seem as far removed from Lynch's earlier works as could be imagined, but in fact right from the very opening, this is entirely his film – a surreal road movie\".\n\nThe same year, Lynch approached ABC once again with ideas for a television drama. The network gave Lynch the go-ahead to shoot a two-hour pilot for the series \"Mulholland Drive\", but disputes over content and running time led to the project being shelved indefinitely. However, with seven million dollars from the French production company StudioCanal, Lynch completed the pilot as a film, \"Mulholland Drive\". The film, a non-linear narrative surrealist tale of the dark side of Hollywood, stars Naomi Watts, Laura Harring and Justin Theroux. The film performed relatively well at the box office worldwide and was a critical success, earning Lynch a Best Director prize at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival (shared with Joel Coen for \"The Man Who Wasn't There\") and a Best Director award from the New York Film Critics Association. In addition, Lynch received his third Academy Award nomination for Best Director. In 2016, the film was named the top film of the 21st century by the BBC following a poll of 177 film critics from 36 countries.\n\nWith the rising popularity of the Internet, Lynch decided to utilize it as a new distribution channel, releasing several new series that he had created exclusively on his website, davidlynch.com. In 2002, he created a series of online shorts named \"DumbLand\". Intentionally crude both in content and execution, the eight-episode series was later released on DVD. The same year, Lynch released a surreal sitcom on his website called \"Rabbits\", about a family of humanoid rabbits. Later, he made his experiments with Digital Video available in the form of the Japanese-style horror short \"Darkened Room\". In 2006, Lynch's feature film \"Inland Empire\" was released. At three hours long, it was the longest of Lynch's films. Like \"Mulholland Drive\" and \"Lost Highway\" before it, the film did not follow a traditional narrative structure. It starred Lynch regulars Laura Dern, Harry Dean Stanton and Justin Theroux, with cameos by Naomi Watts and Laura Harring (voices of Suzie and Jane Rabbit), and a performance by Jeremy Irons. Lynch described the piece as \"a mystery about a woman in trouble\". In an effort to promote the film, Lynch made appearances with a cow and a placard bearing the slogan \"Without cheese there would be no \"Inland Empire\"\".\n\nIn 2009, Lynch produced a documentary web series directed by his son, Austin Lynch, and friend Jason S. called \"Interview Project\". Interested in working with Werner Herzog, Lynch collaborated with him in 2009 to produce Herzog's film \"My Son, My Son, What Have Ye Done?\". Using a non-standard narrative, the film was based on the true story of an actor who committed matricide while acting in a production of the Oresteia, and starred Grace Zabriskie, a Lynch regular.\nLynch has plans to direct a documentary on Maharishi Mahesh Yogi consisting of interviews with people who knew him.\n\nIn 2010, Lynch began making guest appearances on the \"Family Guy\" spin-off \"The Cleveland Show\" as Gus the Bartender. He had been convinced to appear in the show by its lead actor, Mike Henry, who is a fan of Lynch and who felt that his whole life had changed after seeing \"Wild at Heart\". \"Lady Blue Shanghai\" is a 16-minute promotional film that was written, directed and edited by Lynch for Dior. It was released on the Internet in May 2010.\n\nLynch directed a concert by English new wave band Duran Duran on March 23, 2011. The concert was streamed live on YouTube from the Mayan Theater in Los Angeles as the kickoff to the second season of \"\". \"The idea is to try and create on the fly, layers of images permeating Duran Duran on the stage\", Lynch said. \"A world of experimentation and hopefully some happy accidents\". The animated short \"I Touch a Red Button Man\", a collaboration between Lynch and the band Interpol, played in the background during Interpol's concert at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in April 2011. The short, which features Interpol's song \"Lights\", was later made available online.\n\nIt was believed that Lynch was going to retire from the film industry; according to Abel Ferrara, Lynch \"doesn't even want to make films any more. I've talked to him about it, OK? I can tell when he talks about it.\" However, in a June 2012 \"Los Angeles Times\" interview, Lynch stated that he lacked the inspiration to start a new movie project, but \"If I got an idea that I fell in love with, I'd go to work tomorrow\". In September 2012, Lynch appeared in the three-part \"Late Show\" arc on FX's \"Louie\" as Jack Dahl. In November 2012, Lynch hinted at plans for a new film while attending Plus Camerimage in Bydgoszcz, Poland. Speaking at the festival, Lynch said \"something is coming up. It will happen but I don't know exactly when\". At Plus Camerimage, Lynch was also presented with a lifetime achievement award and the key to the city by Bydgoszcz's mayor Rafał Bruski. During an interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\" in January 2013, frequent Lynch collaborator Laura Dern confirmed she and Lynch are planning a new project, and \"The New York Times\" later revealed Lynch is working on the script. \"Idem Paris\", a short documentary film about the lithographic process, was released online in February 2013. On June 28, 2013, a music video directed by Lynch for the Nine Inch Nails song \"Came Back Haunted\" was released. He also did photography for the self-titled album from Dumb Numbers released August 2013.\n\nOn October 6, 2014, Lynch confirmed via Twitter that he would start shooting together with Mark Frost a new, nine-episode season of \"Twin Peaks\" in 2015, with the episodes expected to air in early 2016 on Showtime. Lynch and Frost wrote all nine episodes. On April 5, 2015, Lynch announced via Twitter that the project was still alive, but he was no longer going to direct because the budget was too low for what he wanted to do. However, he later announced on May 15, 2015, via Twitter, that he would indeed be returning to the revival, as he had sorted out his issues with Showtime. This was later confirmed by Showtime CEO David Nevins, who announced that Lynch would direct every episode of the revival and that the original order of nine episodes had been extended to eighteen episodes. By January 2016, the series was halfway through the shooting schedule and filming was completed by April 2016. The two-episode premiere aired May 21, 2017.\nWhile doing press for \"Twin Peaks\", he was again asked if he was retired from film and confirmed that he had made his last feature film, responding, \"Things changed a lot... So many films were not doing well at the box office even though they might have been great films and the things that were doing well at the box office weren't the things that I would want to do\". Lynch later clarified that this statement had been misconstrued, and reiterated \"I did not say I quit cinema. Simply that nobody knows what the future holds.\"\nSince the last episode of \"The Return\" aired, there has been speculation on whether there will be a fourth season of \"Twin Peaks\" or not. Though Lynch has not denied the possibility of another season, he has said it would be unlikely to air before 2021.\n\nLynch says that his work is more similar in many respects to that of European filmmakers than American ones, believing that most films that \"get down and thrill your soul\" are from European directors. Lynch has commented on his admiration for such film makers as Federico Fellini, Werner Herzog, Alfred Hitchcock, Roman Polanski, and Jacques Tati, along with the American movie directors Stanley Kubrick and Billy Wilder. He has stated that Billy Wilder's \"Sunset Boulevard\" (1950) is one of his favourite motion pictures, as is Kubrick's \"Lolita\" (1962). He has also cited Herk Harvey's \"Carnival of Souls\" (1962) and Jerzy Skolimowski's \"Deep End\" (1970) as an influence on his work.\n\nThere are several recurring themes within Lynch's work, leading film critics Le Blanc and Odell to state that \"his films are so packed with motifs, recurrent characters, images, compositions and techniques that you could view his entire output as one large jigsaw puzzle of ideas\". One of the key themes that they noted was the usage of dreams and dreamlike imagery and structure within his works, something they related to the \"surrealist ethos\" of relying \"on the subconscious to provide visual drive\". This can be seen in John Merrick's dream of his mother in \"The Elephant Man\", Agent Cooper's dreams of the red room in \"Twin Peaks\" and the \"dreamlike logic\" of the narrative found in \"Eraserhead\", \"Mulholland Drive\" and \"Inland Empire\". Discussing his attitude to dreams, Lynch has stated that \"Waking dreams are the ones that are important, the ones that come when I'm quietly sitting in a chair, letting my mind wander. When you sleep, you don't control your dream. I like to dive into a dream world that I've made or discovered; a world I choose ... [You can't really get others to experience it, but] right there is the power of cinema.\" His films are known for their use of magic realism.\n\nAnother of Lynch's prominent themes is industry, with repeated imagery of \"the clunk of machinery, the power of pistons, shadows of oil drills pumping, screaming woodmills and smoke billowing factories\", as can be seen with the industrial wasteland in \"Eraserhead\", the factories in \"The Elephant Man\", the sawmill in \"Twin Peaks\" and the lawn mower in \"The Straight Story\". Describing his interest in such things, Lynch stated that \"It makes me feel good to see giant machinery, you know, working: dealing with molten metal. And I like fire and smoke. And the sounds are so powerful. It's just big stuff. It means that things are being made, and I really like that.\"\n\nAnother theme is the dark underbelly of violent criminal activity within a society, such as with Frank's gang in \"Blue Velvet\" and the cocaine smugglers in \"Twin Peaks\". The idea of deformity is also found in several of Lynch's films, from \"The Elephant Man\" to the deformed baby in \"Eraserhead\", as well as death from head wounds, found in most of Lynch's films. Other imagery commonly used in Lynch's works are flickering electricity or lights, fire and stages upon which a singer performs, often surrounded by drapery.\n\nWith the exception of \"The Elephant Man\" and \"Dune\", which are set in Victorian London and a fictitious galaxy respectively, all of Lynch's films have been set in the United States, and he has stated that \"I like certain things about America and it gives me ideas. When I go around and I see things, it sparks little stories, or little characters pop out, so it just feels right to me to, you know, make American films.\" A number of his works, including \"Blue Velvet\", \"Twin Peaks\" and \"Lost Highway\" are intentionally reminiscent of the 1950s American culture despite being set in the later decades of the 20th century. Lynch stated that \"It was a fantastic decade in a lot of ways ... there was something in the air that is not there any more at all. It was such a great feeling, and not just because I was a kid. It was a really hopeful time, and things were going up instead of going down. You got the feeling you could do anything. The future was bright. Little did we know we were laying the groundwork for a disastrous future.\"\n\nLynch also tends to feature his leading female actors in \"split\" roles, so that many of his female characters have multiple, fractured identities. This practice began with his choice to cast Sheryl Lee as both Laura Palmer and her cousin Maddy Ferguson in \"Twin Peaks\" and continued in his later works. In \"Lost Highway\", Patricia Arquette plays the dual role of Renee Madison/Alice Wakefield, while in \"Mulholland Drive\" Naomi Watts plays Diane Selwyn/Betty Elms and Laura Harring plays Camilla Rhodes/Rita and in \"Inland Empire\" Laura Dern plays Nikki Grace/Susan Blue. The numerous alternative versions of lead characters and numerous examples of fragmented timelines may echo and/or reference the many worlds interpretation of quantum physics and perhaps Lynch's broader interest in quantum physics/ quantum theory. Some have also suggested that Lynch's love for the 1958 Alfred Hitchcock film \"Vertigo\", which employs a split lead character (the Judy Barton and Madeleine Elster characters, both portrayed by Kim Novak) may have had an influence on this aspect of Lynch's work.\n\nHe frequently tends to have characters that have supernatural and omnipotent qualities. They can be seen as physical manifestations of various different concepts, such as hatred or fear. Examples of these characters are The Man Inside the Planet from \"Eraserhead\", Bob from \"Twin Peaks\", The Mystery Man from \"Lost Highway\", The Bum in \"Mulholland Drive\", and The Phantom in \"Inland Empire\". Lynch approaches his characters and film content in a way that steeps them in a dream state rather than reality.\n\nLynch is also widely noted for his collaborations with various production artists and composers on his films and other productions. He frequently works with Angelo Badalamenti to compose music for his productions, former wife Mary Sweeney as a film editor, casting director Johanna Ray, and cast members Harry Dean Stanton, Jack Nance, Kyle MacLachlan, Naomi Watts, Isabella Rossellini, Grace Zabriskie, and Laura Dern.\n\nLynch first trained as a painter, and although he is now better known as a filmmaker, he has continued to paint. Lynch has stated that \"all my paintings are organic, violent comedies. They have to be violently done and primitive and crude, and to achieve that I try to let nature paint more than I paint.\" Many of his works are very dark in colour, and Lynch has said this is because\n\nI wouldn't know what to do with [colour]. Colour to me is too real. It's limiting. It doesn't allow too much of a dream. The more you throw black into a colour, the more dreamy it gets ... Black has depth. It's like a little egress; you can go into it, and because it keeps on continuing to be dark, the mind kicks in, and a lot of things that are going on in there become manifest. And you start seeing what you're afraid of. You start seeing what you love, and it becomes like a dream.\nMany of his works also contain letters and words added to the painting. He explains:\n\nThe words in the paintings are sometimes important to make you start thinking about what else is going on in there. And a lot of times, the words excite me as shapes, and something'll grow out of that. I used to cut these little letters out and glue them on. They just look good all lined up like teeth ... sometimes they become the title of the painting.\n\nLynch considers the 20th-century Irish-born British artist Francis Bacon to be his \"number one kinda hero painter\", stating that \"Normally I only like a couple of years of a painter's work, but I like everything of Bacon's. The guy, you know, had the stuff.\"\n\nLynch was the subject of a major art retrospective at the Fondation Cartier, Paris from March 3 – May 27, 2007. The show was titled \"The Air is on Fire\" and included numerous paintings, photographs, drawings, alternative films and sound work. New site-specific art installations were created specially for the exhibition. A series of events accompanied the exhibition including live performances and concerts.\n\nHis alma mater, the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, presented an exhibition of his work, entitled \"The Unified Field\", which opened on September 12, 2014 and ended in January 2015.\n\nLynch is represented by Kayne Griffin Corcoran in Los Angeles, and has been exhibiting his paintings, drawings, and photography with the gallery since 2011.\n\nHis favorite photographers include William Eggleston (\"The Red Ceiling\"), Joel-Peter Witkin, and Diane Arbus.\n\nLynch has also been involved in a number of music projects, many of them related to his films. His album genres switch mainly between experimental rock, ambient soundscapes and, most recently, avant-garde electropop music. Most notably he produced and wrote lyrics for Julee Cruise's first two albums, \"Floating into the Night\" (1989) and \"The Voice of Love\" (1993), in collaboration with Angelo Badalamenti who composed the music and also produced. Lynch also worked on the 1998 Jocelyn Montgomery album \"Lux Vivens (Living Light), The Music of Hildegard von Bingen\". For his own productions, he composed music for \"Wild at Heart\", \"Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me\", \"Mulholland Drive\", and \"Rabbits\". In 2001, he released \"BlueBob\", a rock album performed by Lynch and John Neff. The album is notable for Lynch's unusual guitar playing style. He plays \"upside down and backwards, like a lap guitar\", and relies heavily on effects pedals. Most recently Lynch composed several pieces for \"Inland Empire\", including two songs, \"Ghost of Love\" and \"Walkin' on the Sky\", in which he makes his public debut as a singer. In 2009, his new book-CD set \"\" was released. In 2008, he started his own record label called David Lynch MC which first released \"Fox Bat Strategy: A Tribute to Dave Jaurequi\" in early 2009. In August 2009, it was announced that he was releasing Afghani/American singer Ariana Delawari's \"Lion of Panjshir\" album in conjunction with Manimal Vinyl record company.\n\nIn November 2010, Lynch released two electropop music singles, \"Good Day Today\" and \"I Know\", through the independent British label Sunday Best Recordings. Describing why he created them, he stated that \"I was just sitting and these notes came and then I went down and started working with Dean [Hurley, his engineer] and then these few notes, 'I want to have a good day, today' came and the song was built around that\". The singles were followed by an album, \"Crazy Clown Time\", which was released in November 2011 and described as an \"electronic blues album\". The songs were sung by Lynch, with guest vocals on one track by Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, and composed and performed by Lynch and Dean Hurley. All or most of the songs for \"Crazy Clown Time\" were put into art-music videos, Lynch directing the title song's video. The \"Crazy Clown Time\" song and video are a fantastic minimalistic parody of hip-hop music and videos.\n\nOn September 29, 2011, Lynch released \"This Train\" with vocalist and long-time musical collaborator Chrysta Bell on the La Rose Noire label. The 11-song album was produced by Lynch and co-written primarily by Lynch and Chrysta Bell. It includes the song \"Polish Poem\" which is featured on the \"Inland Empire\" soundtrack. The musical partnership also yielded a 5- song EP entitled \"Somewhere In the Nowhere\", released October 7, 2016, on Meta Hari Records.\n\nLynch's second studio album, \"The Big Dream\", was released in 2013 and included the single, \"I'm Waiting Here\", with Swedish singer-songwriter Lykke Li. \"The Big Dream\"s release was preceded by \"TBD716\", an enigmatic 43-second video featured on Lynch's YouTube and Vine accounts.\n\nFor Record Store Day 2014 David Lynch released \"The Big Dream Remix EP\" which featured four songs from his album remixed by various artists. This included the track \"Are You Sure\" remixed by Bastille. The band Bastille have been known to take inspiration from David Lynch's work for their songs and music videos, the main one being their song \"Laura Palmer\" which is influenced by Lynch's television show \"Twin Peaks\".\n\nOn November 2, 2018 a collaborative album by Lynch and Angelo Badalamenti, titled \"Thought Gang\", was released on vinyl and on compact disc. The album was recorded around 1993 but was unreleased at the time. Two tracks from the album already appeared on the soundtrack from the 1992 movie 'Twin Peaks: Fire walk with me' and three other tracks were used for the 'Twin Peaks' TV series in 2017.\n\nLynch designed and constructed furniture for his 1997 film \"Lost Highway\", notably the small table in the Madison house and the VCR case.\n\nIn April 1997 he presented a furniture collection at the prestigious Milan Furniture Fair in Italy. \"Design and music, art and architecture – they all belong together.\"\n\nWorking with designer Raphael Navot, architectural agency Enia and light designer Thierry Dreyfus, Lynch has conceived and designed a nightclub in Paris. \"Silencio\" opened in October 2011, and is a private members' club although is free to the public after midnight. Patrons have access to concerts, films and other performances by artists and guests. Inspired by the club of the same name in his 2001 film \"Mulholland Drive\", the underground space consists of a series of rooms, each dedicated to a certain purpose or atmosphere. \"Silencio is something dear to me. I wanted to create an intimate space where all the arts could come together. There won't be a Warhol-like guru, but it will be open to celebrated artists of all disciplines to come here to programme or create what they want.\"\n\nIn 2006, Lynch authored a short book describing his creative processes, stories from throughout his career, and the benefits he had realized through his practice of Transcendental Meditation called \"Catching the Big Fish: Meditation, Consciousness, and Creativity\". He describes the metaphor behind the title in the introduction:\nIdeas are like fish.\n\nIf you want to catch little fish, you can stay in the shallow water. But if you want to catch the big fish, you've got to go deeper.\n\nDown deep, the fish are more powerful and more pure. They're huge and abstract. And they're very beautiful.\n\nThe book weaves a non-linear autobiography with descriptions of Lynch's cognitive experiences during Transcendental Meditation. All author's royalties will be donated to the David Lynch Foundation.\n\nTogether with Kristine McKenna, Lynch, in June 2018, published the book \"Room to Dream\". The book is a hybrid of biography and memoir. The book gives the reader a look into his personal and creative life through his own words and through those of his colleagues, family and friends.\n\nLynch has had several long-term relationships. In 1967, he married Peggy Lentz in Chicago, Illinois. They had one child, Jennifer Chambers Lynch, born in 1968, who is a film director. They filed for divorce in 1974. On June 21, 1977, Lynch married Mary Fisk, and the couple had one child, Austin Jack Lynch, born in 1982. They divorced in 1987, and Lynch later developed a relationship with Mary Sweeney, with whom he had one son. Sweeney also worked as Lynch's longtime film editor/producer and co-wrote and produced \"The Straight Story\". The two married in May 2006, but divorced that July. In 2009 Lynch married actress Emily Stofle, who appeared in his 2006 film \"Inland Empire\" as well as the . The couple have one child, Lula Boginia Lynch, born in 2012.\n\nLynch has said that he is \"not a political person\" and that politics is \"something [he] know[s] little about.\" However, in the 1990s he expressed admiration for former US President Ronald Reagan, stating that \"I mostly liked that he carried a wind of old Hollywood, of a cowboy.\" Describing his political philosophy in 2006, he stated, \"at that time, I thought of myself as a libertarian. I believed in next to zero government. And I still would lean toward no government and not so many rules, except for traffic lights and things like this. I really believe in traffic regulations.\" Lynch continued to state that \"I'm a Democrat now. And I've always been a Democrat, really. But I don't like the Democrats a lot, either, because I'm a smoker, and I think a lot of the Democrats have come up with these rules for non-smoking.\" He endorsed the center-left Natural Law Party in the 2000 presidential election and later stated that he would vote for Democratic incumbent Barack Obama in the 2012 presidential election.\n\nIn the 2016 United States presidential election, he endorsed Bernie Sanders, whom he described as \"for the people.\" He voted for Sanders in the 2016 Democratic Primary. In a June 2018 interview with \"The Guardian\", he stated that Donald Trump could go down as \"one of the greatest presidents in history because he has disrupted the thing so much. No one is able to counter this guy in an intelligent way.\" He added: \"Our so-called leaders can’t take the country forward, can’t get anything done. Like children, they are. Trump has shown all this\" The interviewer clarified that \"while Trump may not be doing a good job himself, Lynch thinks, he is opening up a space where other outsiders might.\" After President Trump invoked a \"Breitbart\" article claiming Lynch as his supporter, Lynch clarified on his official Facebook page that the quote was taken \"a bit out of context\" and stated that Trump is \"causing suffering and division,\" advising him to \"treat all the people as you would like to be treated.\"\n\nLynch advocates the use of Transcendental Meditation in bringing peace to the world. He was initiated into Transcendental Meditation in July 1973, and has practiced the technique consistently since then. Lynch says he met Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, the founder of the TM movement, for the first time in 1975 at the Spiritual Regeneration Movement center in Los Angeles, California. He reportedly became close with the Maharishi during a month-long \"Millionaire's Enlightenment Course\" held in 2003, the fee for which was 1 million.\n\nIn July 2005, he launched the David Lynch Foundation for Consciousness-Based Education and Peace, established to help finance scholarships for students in middle and high schools who are interested in learning the Transcendental Meditation technique and to fund research on the technique and its effects on learning. Together with John Hagelin and Fred Travis, a brain researcher from Maharishi University of Management (MUM), Lynch promoted his vision on college campuses with a tour that began in September 2005. Lynch is on the board of trustees of MUM and has hosted an annual \"David Lynch Weekend for World Peace and Meditation\" there since 2005.\n\nLynch was working for the building and establishment of seven buildings, in which 8,000 salaried people would practice advanced meditation techniques, \"pumping peace for the world\". He estimates the cost at US$7 billion. As of December 2005, he had spent US$400,000 of personal money, and raised US$1 million in donations. In December 2006, the \"New York Times\" reported that he continued to have that goal. Lynch's book, \"Catching the Big Fish\" (Tarcher/Penguin 2006), discusses the impact of the Transcendental Meditation technique on his creative process. Lynch attended the funeral of the Maharishi in India in 2008. He told a reporter, \"In life, he revolutionised the lives of millions of people. ... In 20, 50, 500 years there will be millions of people who will know and understand what the Maharishi has done.\" In 2009, he went to India to film interviews with people who knew the Maharishi as part of a biographical documentary.\n\nIn 2009, Lynch organized a benefit concert at Radio City Music Hall for the David Lynch Foundation. On April 4, 2009, the \"Change Begins Within\" concert featured Paul McCartney, Ringo Starr, Donovan, Sheryl Crow, Eddie Vedder, Moby, Bettye LaVette, Ben Harper, and Mike Love of the Beach Boys. \"David Wants to Fly\", released in May 2010, is a documentary by German filmmaker David Sieveking \"that follows the path of his professional idol, David Lynch, into the world of Transcendental Meditation (TM)\".\n\nAn independent project starring Lynch called \"Beyond The Noise: My Transcendental Meditation Journey\", directed by film student Dana Farley, who has severe dyslexia and attention deficit disorder, was shown at film festivals in 2011, including the Marbella Film Festival. Filmmaker Kevin Sean Michaels is one of the producers. In 2013 Lynch wrote: \"Transcendental Meditation leads to a beautiful, peaceful revolution. A change from suffering and negativity to happiness and a life more and more free of any problems.\"\n\nLynch designed his personal website, a site exclusive to paying members, where he posts short videos and his absurdist series \"Dumbland\", plus interviews and other items. The site also featured a daily weather report, where Lynch gives a brief description of the weather in Los Angeles, where he resides. Until June 2010, this weather report (usually no longer than 30 seconds) was also being broadcast on his personal YouTube channel, \"David Lynch – Daily Weather Report\". An absurd ringtone (\"I like to kill deer\") from the website was a common sound bite on \"The Howard Stern Show\" in early 2006.\n\nLynch is a coffee drinker and even has his own line of special organic blends available for purchase on his website as well as in Whole Foods. Called \"David Lynch Signature Cup\", the coffee has been advertised via flyers included with several recent Lynch-related DVD releases, including \"Inland Empire\" and the Gold Box edition of \"Twin Peaks\". The possibly self-mocking tag-line for the brand is \"It's all in the beans ... and I'm just full of beans.\" This is also a quote of a line said by Justin Theroux's character in \"Inland Empire\".\n\nThe moving image collection of David Lynch is held at the Academy Film Archive, which has preserved two of his student films therein.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46294149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46294149", "title": "Farewell to Orpheus", "text": "Farewell to Orpheus\n\nFarewell to Orpheus is an outdoor 1968–1973 bronze sculpture and fountain by Frederic Littman, installed at the Portland State University campus in Portland, Oregon, United States.\n\n\"Farewell to Orpheus\", created by former Portland State University (PSU) art professor Frederic Littman in 1968, is located at Southwest Montgomery Street in the South Park Blocks. It depicts Eurydice and was installed in 1972–1973 as part of the South Park Blocks Urban Renewal Development Project. The fountain is one of four maintained by PSU, along with \"Walk of Heroines\" at Hoffman Hall, another in front of the Student Health and Counseling Building, and one at Urban Plaza.\n\nThe sculpture has always been surrounded by water but the fountain, which continually recycles 227 gallons of water, was not added until the 1990s. In 2009, PSU partnered with the City of Portland and the sculpture's owners to repair the fountain, which had not worked for nearly a decade. Repairs cost $6,000 and were funded in part by rentals on the South Park Blocks. Work included installation of new fountain heads, lights, and wiring, and re-sealing underwater surfaces. The repairs were completed by three PSU employees. \"Farewell to Orpheus\" has been described as a \"seating refuge\" for students and included in published walking tours of the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3136799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3136799", "title": "Federation of Zoroastrian Associations of North America", "text": "Federation of Zoroastrian Associations of North America\n\nThe Federation of Zoroastrian Associations of North America (FEZANA) is a non-profit religious group registered in the state of Illinois and formed to function as the coordinating organization for Zoroastrian Associations of North America.\n\nZoroastrian Trust Funds of Europe\n\n"}
{"id": "548830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548830", "title": "Fierce deities", "text": "Fierce deities\n\nIn Buddhism, fierce deities are the fierce, wrathful or forceful (Tibetan: \"trowo\", Sanskrit: \"krodha\") forms of enlightened Buddhas, Bodhisattvas or Devas (divine beings). Because of their power to destroy the obstacles to enlightenment, they are also termed \"krodha-vighnantaka\", \"fierce destroyers of obstacles\". Fierce deities are a notable feature of the iconography of Mahayana and Vajrayana Buddhism. These types of deities first appeared in India during the late 6th century with its main source being the Yaksha imagery and became a central feature of Indian Tantric Buddhism by the late 10th or early 11th century.\n\nIn non-Tantric traditions of Mahayana Buddhism, these beings are protector deities who destroy obstacles to the Buddhas and the Dharma, act as guardians against demons and gather together sentient beings to listen to the teachings of the Buddhas. In Tantric Buddhism, they are considered to be fierce and terrifying forms of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas themselves. Enlightened beings may take on these forms in order to protect and aid confused sentient beings. They also represent the energy and power that is needed in order to transform negative mental factors into wisdom and compassion. They represent the power and compassion of enlightened activity which uses multiple skillful means (upaya) to guide sentient beings as well as the transformative element of tantra which uses negative emotions as part of the path. According to Chogyam Trungpa, \"wrathful yidams work more directly and forcefully with passion, aggression, and delusion - conquering and trampling them on the spot.\"\n\nIn Tantric Buddhist art, fierce deities are presented as terrifying, demonic looking beings adorned with human skulls and other ornaments associated with the charnel ground, as well as being often depicted with sexually suggestive attributes. According to Rob Linrothe, the sensual and fierce imagery represents \"poison as its own antidote, harnessed obstacles as the liberating force\" and notes that they are \"metaphors for the internal yogic processes to gain enlightenment\".\n\nIn Indo-Tibetan Vajrayana, Yidams are divine forms of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas. The tantric practitioner is initiated into the mandala of a particular chosen deity (Sanskrit: \"Iṣṭa-devatā\") and practices complex sadhanas (meditations) on the deity for the purpose of personal transformation. This Deity Yoga practice is central to tantric forms of Buddhism such as Tibetan Buddhism. Yidams can be peaceful, fierce and \"semi-fierce\" (having both fierce and peaceful aspects). Fierce deities can be divided into male and female categories. The Herukas (Tb. \"khrag 'thung\", lit. \"blood drinker\") are enlightened masculine beings who adopt fierce forms to express their detachment from the world of ignorance, such as Yamantaka, Cakrasamvara, Mahākāla, or Vajrakilaya. Dakinis (Tb. \"khandroma\", \"sky-goer\") are their feminine counterparts, sometimes depicted with a heruka and sometimes as independent deities. The most prevalent wrathful dakinis are Vajrayogini and Vajravārāhī.\n\nIn East Asian Buddhism, Wisdom Kings (Sanskrit \"vidyarāja\"), are seen as divine manifestations of the Buddhas, who act as protectors, messengers and defenders of the Buddhist Dharma. In East Asian Vajrayana and Chinese Esoteric Buddhism the five wisdom kings are manifestations of the Five Tathagatas.\n\nThe Protectors (Sanskrit \"pāla\") or Dharmapāla (Dharma protectors), are powerful beings, often Devas or Bodhisattvas who protect the Buddhist religion and community from inner and outer threats and obstacles to their practice. A Dharmapala can also be a Garuda, Nāga, Yaksha, Gandharva, or Asura. Other categories of Protectors include the Lokapālas or \"Four Heavenly Kings\" and or \"Protectors of the Region\".\n\nA common Tibetan grouping of Dharmapāla is 'The Eight Dharmapalas' (), who are understood to be the defenders of Buddhism. They are supernatural beings with the rank of bodhisattva who \"are supposed to wage war without any mercy against the demons and enemies of Buddhism\". The Eight Dharmapala are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85362", "title": "Genius (mythology)", "text": "Genius (mythology)\n\nIn Roman religion, the genius (; plural \"geniī\") is the individual instance of a general divine nature that is present in every individual person, place, or thing. Much like a guardian angel, the genius would follow each man from the hour of his birth until the day he died. For women, it was the \"Juno\" spirit that would accompany each of them.\n\nEach individual place had a \"genius\" (\"genius loci\") and so did powerful objects, such as volcanoes. The concept extended to some specifics: the genius of the theatre, of vineyards, and of festivals, which made performances successful, grapes grow, and celebrations succeed, respectively. It was extremely important in the Roman mind to propitiate the appropriate genii for the major undertakings and events of their lives.\n\nThe Christian theologian Augustine equated the Christian \"soul\" with the Roman \"genius\", citing Varro as attributing the rational powers and abilities of every human being to their \"genius\".\n\nAlthough the term \"genius\" might apply to any divinity whatsoever, most of the higher-level and state \"genii\" had their own well-established names. \"Genius\" applied most often to individual places or people not generally known; that is, to the smallest units of society and settlements, families and their homes. Houses, doors, gates, streets, districts, tribes, each one had its own \"genius\". The supreme hierarchy of the Roman gods, like that of the Greeks, was modelled after a human family. It featured a father, Jupiter, who was also the supreme divine unity, and a mother, \"Juno\", queen of the gods. These supreme unities were subdivided into \"genii\" for each individual family; hence, the \"genius\" of each female, representing the female domestic reproductive power, was a Juno. The male function was a Jupiter.\n\nThe juno was worshipped under many titles:\n\n\"Genii\" were often viewed as protective spirits, as one would propitiate them for protection. For example, to protect infants one propitiated a number of deities concerned with birth and childrearing: \"Cuba\" (\"lying down to sleep\"), \"Cunina\" (\"of the cradle\") and \"Rumina\" (\"of breast-feeding\"). Certainly, if those \"genii\" did not perform their proper function well, the infant would be in danger.\n\nHundreds of \"lararia\", or family shrines, have been discovered at Pompeii, typically off the \"atrium\", kitchen or garden, where the smoke of burnt offerings could vent through the opening in the roof. A \"lararium\" was distinct from the \"penus\" (\"within\"), another shrine where the penates, gods associated with the storerooms, was located. Each \"lararium\" features a panel fresco containing the same theme: two peripheral figures (\"Lares\") attend on a central figure (family \"genius\") or two figures (\"genius\" and \"Juno\") who may or may not be at an altar. In the foreground is one or two serpents crawling toward the \"genius\" through a meadow motif. Campania and Calabria preserved an ancient practice of keeping a propitious house snake, here linked with the \"genius\". In another, unrelated fresco (House of the Centenary) the snake-in-meadow appears below a depiction of Mount Vesuvius and is labelled \"Agathodaimon\", \"good daimon\", where \"daimon\" must be regarded as the Greek equivalent of \"genius\".\n\nEtymologically \"genius\" (“household guardian spirit”) has the same derivation as \"nature\" from \"gēns\" (“tribe”, “people”) from the Indo-European root *gen-, \"produce.\"\n\nThe \"genius\" appears explicitly in Roman literature as early as Plautus, where one character in the play, \"Captivi\", jests that the father of another is so avaricious that he uses cheap Samian ware in sacrifices to his own \"genius\", so as not to tempt the \"genius\" to steal it. In this passage, the \"genius\" is not identical to the person, as to propitiate oneself would be absurd, and yet the \"genius\" also has the avarice of the person; that is, the same character, the implication being, like person, like \"genius\".\n\nHorace, writing when the first emperor was introducing the cult of his own \"genius\", describes the genius as \"the companion which controls the natal star; the god of human nature, in that he is mortal for each person, with a changing expression, white or black\".\n\nOctavius Caesar on return to Rome after the final victory of the Roman Civil War at the Battle of Actium appeared to the Senate to be a man of great power and success, clearly a mark of divinity. In recognition of the prodigy they voted that all banquets should include a libation to his \"genius\". In concession to this sentiment he chose the name Augustus, capturing the numinous meaning of English \"august.\" The household cult of the \"Genius Augusti\" dates from this period. It was propitiated at every meal along with the other household \"numina\". Thus began the tradition of the Imperial cult, in which Romans worshipped the genius of the emperor rather than the person.\nIf the \"genius\" of the \"imperator\", or commander of all troops, was to be propitiated, so was that of all the units under his command. The provincial troops expanded the idea of the \"genii\" of state; for example, from Roman Britain have been found altars to the \"genii\" of \"Roma\", \"Roma aeterna\", \"Britannia\", and to every \"legion\", \"cohors\", \"ala\" and \"centuria\" in Britain, as well as to the \"praetorium\" of every \"castra\" and even to the \"vexillae\". Inscriptional dedications to \"genius\" were not confined to the military. From Gallia Cisalpina under the empire are numerous dedications to the \"genii\" of persons of authority and respect; in addition to the emperor's \"genius principis\", were the geniuses of patrons of freedmen, owners of slaves, patrons of guilds, philanthropists, officials, villages, other divinities, relatives and friends. Sometimes the dedication is combined with other words, such as \"to the genius and honor\" or in the case of couples, \"to the genius and Juno.\"\n\nSurviving from the time of the empire hundreds of dedicatory, votive and sepulchral inscriptions ranging over the entire territory testify to a floruit of \"genius\" worship as an official cult. Stock phrases were abbreviated: GPR, \"genio populi Romani\" (\"to the genius of the Roman people\"); GHL, \"genio huius loci\" (\"to the genius of this place\"); GDN, \"genio domini nostri\" (\"to the genius of our master\"), and so on. In 392 AD with the final victory of Christianity Theodosius I declared the worship of the Genii, Lares and Penates to be treason, ending their official terms. The concept, however, continued in representation and speech under different names or with accepted modifications.\n\nThe \"genius\" of a corporate social body is often a cameo theme on ancient coins: a denarius from Spain, 76–75 BC, featuring a bust of the \"GPR\" (\"Genius Populi Romani\", \"Genius of the Roman People\") on the obverse; an aureus of Siscia in Croatia, 270–275 AD, featuring a standing image of the \"GENIUS ILLVR\" (\"Genius Exercitus Illyriciani\", \"Genius of the Illyrian Army\") on the reverse; an aureus of Rome, 134–138 AD, with an image of a youth holding a cornucopia and patera (sacrificial dish) and the inscription GENIOPR, \"genio populi Romani\", \"to the genius of the Roman people,\" on the reverse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50276662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50276662", "title": "Gond-i Shahanshah", "text": "Gond-i Shahanshah\n\nGond-i Shahanshah (\"the army of the Shahanshah\"), also known by its Arabicized form of Jund-i Shahanshah, was the name of the 4,000 Daylamite elite unit of the Sasanian king. They originally lived in Daylam, but were resettled in Ctesiphon by Khosrow II (r. 590-628), probably some time after 600. After the Sasanian Empire suffered a major defeat in 636 to the Arabs at the battle of al-Qadisiyyah, the Gond-i Shahanshah defected to the Arabs, converted to Islam, and settled in Kufa, where they had their own quarter.\n\n"}
{"id": "15190650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15190650", "title": "Headless Nun", "text": "Headless Nun\n\nThe Headless Nun is a ghost story associated with French Fort Cove in Nordin, now the City of Miramichi, New Brunswick.\n\nAccording to the tale that dates back to the mid 1700s, the Headless Nun was an 18th-century resident of the area named Sister Marie Inconnue (Inconnue being the French for 'unknown') who was subsequently beheaded. Details of the story vary: in one version, a \"mad trapper\" cut off her head and ran into the woods with it. In another, two sailors cut off her head after she refused to divulge the location of a treasure. The story holds that Sister Marie's head was never found, resulting in her spirit forever roaming the area in search of it. Today, \"Headless Nun\" tours are among the tourist attraction offerings at French Fort Cove.\n\n"}
{"id": "22409857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22409857", "title": "Hindu wedding cards", "text": "Hindu wedding cards\n\nHindu Wedding cards or invitations hallmark Hindu marriage rituals and customs which are entangled with eternal bonding, affection and blessing. The lavish traditions are highlighted with opulently colored Hindu wedding invitations aesthetically designed in handmade paper and designs enriched with heart-felt emotions. Hindu invitations symbolize glitter, lively mood and fun of the matrimonial ceremony. The Indian wedding cards are not only to inform and invite rather they express style and theme of the special day.\n\nReligious symbols such as Lord Ganesha and Mangal Ghat are embedded in rich texture to seek the blessings of God. \nThe relevance of Hindu invitations has undergone a radical change, since the origin of Hindu Weddings all across the globe.\n\nWedding is known as vivah in Hindu culture and the ceremony is known as vivah sanskar in which two individuals perform various customs to begin their journey of life together with happiness and bliss. Hindu community gives utmost importance to wedding and it is celebrated with lot of fun and happiness. Hindu marriages have lot of rituals and traditions which vary according to the different community in Hindu religion. \n\nIn this ceremony or ritual the bride and groom exchange garlands as a sign of acceptance of one another and a promise to respect one another as partners to begin their journey of life. It denotes or signifies that the bride and bridegroom are in consent to get married willingly, pleasantly and voluntarily at the same time their hearts are united and concordant like water.\n\nIn this tradition the bridegroom is welcomed to decorated altar known as 'mandap' and is offered a seat, After this the bride's father offers the bridegroom honey and honey as the expression of respect and welcome. \n\nThe word “Kanya” means bride and “dan” means giving away. In this tradition the bride's parents offer their virgin daughter in marriage through a solemn and pious ritual known as kanyadan. The main concept behind Kanyadan is that the groom is Lord “Narayana” and the bride is a form of the goddess “Laxmi”. The parents of the bride are facilitating their union for eternity.\n\nIn this custom the parents of the bride join the hands of the bride and groom and the couple declares that their hearts have been united and they vow to remain devoted to each other for lifetime. The groom also assures to the bride that she will always be respected in his life and honored in their home. \n\nIn this ritual the bride will place both her hands into the hands of the groom and then her brother will place rice into her hands and then bride and groom together will offer the rice as a sacrifice into the sacred fire.\n\nIn Mangalya Dharane, the word “Mangalsutra” means a sacred necklace which is seen as the token of love and dignity given to a bride by her bridegroom. The groom ties the “Mangalsutra” around the neck of the bride when the priest recites Vedic hymns and prayers on the wedding day. This tradition signifies the union of the bride and the groom in front of god, who is believed to be attending the matrimonial ceremony. This sacred thread known as “Mangalsutra” is made of two strings of small black beads with a pendant or locket. It is considered auspicious for married women and believed to have divine powers as it signifies protection from evil power. It is also that this sacred thread will protect the marriage of a couple and life of the husband forever.\n\nThe word “gath” means knot and “bandhan” means tying. In this ritual a scarve is placed around the neck of the bride and bridegroom which is tied together and which symbolizes the eternal bond between the couple. It also denotes their pledge before God to remain faithful and to love each other for eternity.\n\nIn Mangalphera , the bride and groom take four “Mangalpheras” which means doing rounds around the holy fire in a clockwise direction in which the bride leads the first three Mangalphera to signify her determination to stand first beside her husband in sorrow and happiness. In the fourth the bridegroom leads and these four Mangalpheras represent four goals in life which are Moksha (spiritual salvation and liberation), Dharma (religious and moral duties), Artha (prosperity) and Kama (earthly pleasures). \n\nIn Saptapadi, the bride and groom walk seven steps together to indicate the commencement of their journey of life together filled with happiness and glee. In this ritual, a pink cloth is draped over the bride’s shoulder and tied to the bridegroom’s shoulder cloth and then the married couple walks seven steps together to remain true companions and life-long partners.\n\nIn Jalastnchana, the parents of the bride and groom bless the newly wedded couple by dipping a rose in water and sprinkling it over the married couple.\n\nIn the ritual of 'sindhoor' which means vermilion, the bridegroom applies a small dot of vermilion, a red colored powder to the bride's forehead and welcomes her as his partner for life in sorrow and happiness. It also signifies the completion of the wedding successfully.\n\nIn Aashirvad, the newly married couple seeks blessings of the officiating priest who is known as “Pandit” in Hindu culture and all the relatives along with other guests join in to throw flowers and rice on the couple and express good wishes for the newly wed. The newly married couple seeks Aashirvad, the blessing from the parents by bowing down and touching their feet. \n\nVidaai is the last ritual of the ceremony by which the bride begins a significant role in her life as a wife and member of the bridegroom's family. Typically a sad event, the Bride says goodbye to her parents and siblings. The Bride then throws a handful of rice (which signifies her well-wishes, thanks and blessings for her parents, siblings and ancestral home) backwards towards her parents as she walks forward towards her new life as a married woman.\n\nThe diverse features in Hindu Wedding invitation are:-\n\nAn invitation wording is a compilation of various wedding invitation verses, wordings and text templates for all the special ceremonies. From the wedding invitation text, it is possible to get a comprehensive idea about the type of wedding for instance whether it is a Hindu or Christian wedding celebration. In the same manner, Hindu invitations are incomplete without wordings. The wordings have a significant relevance while designing a perfect card. The invitation wordings in a Hindu wedding card are very formal, and wordings are used in the card for various ceremonies which include Mehandi, engagement, Wedding Sangeet, Wedding Ceremony and reception Invitation Wording.\n\nVarious types of printable symbols such as Lord Ganesha, Om, Mangal Ghat are available for all Hindu wedding invitation cards. These symbols have religious significance. Sometimes, bride and groom also select symbols based on the theme. Various classic, as well as artistic symbols, are used in Hindu Cards. The printable symbols are very uniquely designed to give a perfect look to the Hindu wedding invitation cards. It also adds grace to the card with new redefined look. The symbols are widely used all across the globe and becoming more and more famous day by day.\n\nThe printing methods used in printing wedding invitation cards have seen a radical transformation with technological advancement. As the invitation wording and design hint the wedding style, in the same manner, the printing technique chosen will convey how formal the whole wedding ceremony is. The type printing technique selected will also have a big impact on the wedding budget, and it will help in choosing the design and paper type. With the availability of high standard printing techniques, Hindu invitations can be printed by diverse methods like flocking, embossing, hot foil stamping, laser cuttings, raised silk screen printing, offset Printing, Letterpress, Thermography, Engraved Wedding Invitations and many more to give a new multidimensional look to Hindu invitation cards. So it all depends on what kind of look is desired and what is the allocated budget for it.\n\nHindu wedding cards are also designed as per the wedding theme. The bride and groom seek unique wedding celebration, so theme based weddings around the globe has seen a tremendous rise. Wedding is now the best launching pad to show the world how unique a marriage celebration can be, for instance, Hollywood glamour theme, the Medieval theme, Harry Potter theme, ethnic theme based wedding.\n\nThe technological advancement and grown interest in a graceful wedding have given rise to selecting diverse types of papers for Wedding invitation cards. Hindu cards are printed on diverse types of such as:-\nWith changing times, the demand for add-on cards has gone two-fold with main wedding invitation cards. Now, these are used to complement the main Hindu Wedding cards. So, to compliment the main Hindu Wedding invitation various matching add-on cards such as:-\n\n"}
{"id": "8202535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8202535", "title": "I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)", "text": "I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\n\n\"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" is a song by American rock band Marilyn Manson, released as the second single from their third studio album, \"Mechanical Animals\" (1998). It was written by the band's eponymous frontman, along with bassist Twiggy Ramirez and then-guitarist Zim Zum, and was produced by Manson and Michael Beinhorn. A glam rock song inspired by drugs, television, and religion, the track features a gospel choir and a guitar solo by Dave Navarro of Jane's Addiction.\n\nThe song garnered a mostly positive response from music critics, who complimented its catchiness and memorability. Critics noted similarities between \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" and the music of David Bowie, particularly his song \"Fame\" (1975), as well as the work of Manson's contemporaries. The song's stance on drugs garnered differing interpretations; some critics felt it glamorized drug use, while others saw it as anti-drug. Its music video was directed by Paul Hunter, and features an androgynous Manson attached to a cross made of television sets and a series of vignettes. Critics praised the video's imagery and found it critical of both capitalism and the pharmaceutical industry. Commercially, the single peaked within the top 40 of \"Billboard\" Alternative Songs and Mainstream Rock charts, as well as the national charts of New Zealand and Spain.\n\nAfter the release of \"Antichrist Superstar\" (1996), an album which sparked controversy among Christian fundamentalists, Marilyn Manson didn't want to resume playing the role of a bogeyman. He feared that this would cause him to be \"consigned to the one-note rock theatricality\" of Kiss and Alice Cooper. He desired to convince casual rock and pop fans who had previously dismissed him that he was \"more than a cartoon\". For his next album, \"Mechanical Animals\" (1998), he took inspiration from the glam rock music that David Bowie made in the 1970s, and adopted a wardrobe and hairstyle similar to Bowie's. \n\nThe album featured numerous references to drugs, some of them positive. Manson told the \"Los Angeles Times\" in 1998 that \"I advocate the use of drugs, but have always looked down on the abuse of drugs. The people who misuse them give the rest of us a bad name, and I'm not only talking about street drugs. There are a lot of references in the album to the prescripted lifestyle that a lot people have followed and numbed out their emotions and become mechanical.\" According to Manson, \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" was inspired by literal drugs as well as television and religion, both of which Manson deemed \"metaphorical\" drugs. Manson described it as \"the most hollow anthem on the record\". \n\nHe recruited Dave Navarro of the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Jane's Addiction to play the guitar solo at the end of the track, and a trio of black gospel singers to sing the song's refrain. Navarro was rumored to be struggling with drug addiction at the time; Manson refused to confirm whether this was true or not. When Navarro recorded the guitar solo, he was shirtless. During a session with Manson, Navarro and the gospel singers, 1970s teen idol Leif Garrett unexpectedly entered the room. Manson deemed this session \"one of the more memorable moments in rock'n'roll history\" and compared it to a work of pop art. Manson said \"What took place after [Garrett arrived] can't be said; the music can only make you feel it.\"\n\n\"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" is a glam rock song with a length of five minutes and three seconds. The song was written by Manson with the band's bassist Twiggy Ramirez, and its then-guitarist Zim Zum, and produced by Manson with Michael Beinhorn; it also features elements of electronic rock, funk, and soul music. Lorraine Ali of \"Rolling Stone\" contrasted the song with some of the band's earlier work, saying that on the track, \"Manson sings his lines rather than hissing or shrieking them\".\n\nManson repeats the song's title during its chorus, while the verses find him imagining \"a life where not all the sex has to be missionary.\" The verses recall the music of Stevie Wonder, and feature Hammond organ flourishes and muted, wah-wah guitar. The bridge of the song features guitar playing characteristic of Europop. The track's final chorus showcases the gospel choir, who sing the song's refrain. Team Rock, \"Billboard\", and \"NME\" each noted similarities between \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" and \"Fame\" (1975) by David Bowie, while \"Exclaim!\" Liisa Ladouceur felt that the song sounds like Rob Zombie covering Bowie's \"Fashion\" (1980). \"NME\" found the track's electronic rock elements reminiscent of both Garbage and the late 1990s recordings of The Smashing Pumpkins. Paul Carr of \"PopMatters\" felt that \"Kill4Me\", a song recorded later by the band for their 2017 album \"Heaven Upside Down\", had a \"vibe\" identical to that of \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\".\n\nIn \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\", Manson sings \"There's a hole in our soul that we fill with dope\", which found several commentators offering conflicting interpretations of the song's stance on drugs. \"PluggedIn\" Bob Waliszewski viewed \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" as one of several tracks on \"Mechanical Animals\" that glamorizes drug use, contrasting it with the anti-drug sentiments present in another song on the album, \"Coma White\". According to Kenneth Partridge of \"Billboard\", \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" portrays \"Illicit substances...[as] the antidote to living the white-bread life available to most Americans.\" Conversely, \"The New York Times\" Jon Pareles viewed the song as anti-drug.\n\nKenneth Partridge of \"Billboard\" included \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" on his list of the \"15 Best Songs About Drugs\", alongside tracks like Bob Dylan's \"Rainy Day Women ♯12 & 35\" (1966), Jefferson Airplane's \"White Rabbit\" (1967), and The Weeknd's \"Can't Feel My Face\" (2015). Partridge described the track's message as \"a conservative parent’s worst nightmare.\" \"Stereogum\"s Joseph Shafer rated the track fourth on his list of the ten best Marilyn Manson songs, calling it \"the most humorous and infectious\" of \"Mechanical Animals\" \"choice cuts\". \"Exclaim!\" Liisa Ladouceur praised the song's \"shiny production and sleazy swagger,\" saying that it remained memorable years after its release. Robert Christgau deemed \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" and \"The Dope Show\" the catchiest songs on \"Mechanical Animals\". \n\nSputnikmusic's Simon K. described \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" and \"Rock Is Dead\" as album highlights that \"you’ll find yourself humming...for days.\" Chad Childers of \"Loudwire\" praised Navarro's \"slick\" guitar solo and wrote \"the song has remained a favorite among Manson fans over the years.\" Similarly, Brad Miska of Bloody Disgusting said that \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" is one of the songs from \"Mechanical Animals\" that Manson's fans find the most memorable. MTV's Gil Kaufman saw the song as part of a revival of glam rock that took place in the 1990s. According to Kaufman, other examples of this revival included Spacehog's \"In the Meantime\" (1995), the title track of Hole's \"Celebrity Skin\" (1998), and Todd Haynes' \"Velvet Goldmine\" (1998), a film about an Iggy Pop-esque rock singer. \n\nWriting for the \"Houston Press\", Kristy Loye deemed \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" one of Manson's greatest hit songs. Lorainne Ali of \"Rolling Stone\" called it a \"cacophony of voices chanting the title on top of guitar work by Dave Navarro\". Ali went on to praise Manson's vocal performance, saying \"surprisingly, he sounds pretty good.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\"s David Browne panned the title of the song for attempting to be shocking. Annalee Newitz of Salon said that the track was one of the album's \"bad judgment blips\", writing that \"'I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me),' with its misplaced soul backing vocals and Billy Squire-esque sound, made it onto the album for entirely mysterious reasons.\"\n\nThe music video for \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" was directed by Paul Hunter, who had previously directed the video for \"The Dope Show\". Like \"Mechanical Animals\", the video was inspired by the work of David Bowie. Discussing the video's concept in 1999, Manson said \"In the video I suggest TV and religion together as being the drug I'm talking about the most.\" The video features constant contrasts between a saturated light color palette and a saturated dark color palette. In the clip, Manson is shown attached to a cross made out of television sets. He wears white, androgynous clothing similar to Bowie's fashion, and appears to lack melanin. His hair is fair and reminiscent of Marilyn Monroe's; alongside Charles Manson, Monroe served as the band's namesake. Vignettes in the video depict a family with abnormally large eyes who are implied to be abusing drugs, Manson being chased by headless policemen, and a reality television program similar to \"The Jerry Springer Show\". On the program, a woman is shown pregnant with a television set.\n\nIn \"Against and Beyond: Subversion and Transgression in Mass Media, Popular Culture and Performance\", Emilia Borowska writes that \"In [the video's] nightmarish vision, the individuals fall prey to the homogenized, banalised and stupefying culture of contemporary capitalism.\" Borowska also said that the clip depicts \"the media and Christianity as sources of repression, control, and imprisonment.\" Chris Ford of \"Noisecreep\" ranked the video for \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\" fourth on his list of the ten best Marilyn Manson videos, saying that it's \"full to the brim with strange, sometimes confusing visuals\". Ford said that the video's aesthetic was suitable for a glam rock song. AXS TV's Nicole Cormier felt that the video was critical of the pharmaceutical industry, and praised the video for making \"morbidity look beautiful\", adding: \"Although [it's] less dark than previous [Marilyn Manson] videos, the deep message and interpretive expression makes this one just as captivating.\" Writing for Bloody Disgusting, Jonathan Barkan commended the clip's \"rather fascinating\" visuals but said that its use of color makes it \"difficult...to watch without getting a headache.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Mechanical Animals\".\n\nMarilyn Manson\n\nAdditional musicians and technical personnel\n\n"}
{"id": "4223578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4223578", "title": "Inner Tantras", "text": "Inner Tantras\n\nThe Inner Tantras are the final three divisions in the ninefold division of practice according to the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism. They comprise the Mahayoga, Anuyoga and Atiyoga. This system divides the whole of the Buddhist path into three divisions of three and is in contrast to the division of the Sarma, or New Translation schools (Gelug, Kagyu and Sakya) which use a fourfold division. The three divisions of the Inner Tantra correspond roughly to the highest category of tantras of the New Translation schools, there known as Anuttarayoga Tantra.\n\nThe three divisions of the Inner Tantras are:\n\nOther schools call them \"Father Tantras\" (Wyl. pha rgyud), \"Mother Tantras\" (Wyl. ma rgyud) and \"Non-Dual Tantras\" (Wyl. gnyis med kyi rgyud) \nAmong other factors, the three divisions differ in terms of the emphasis they place on the generation stage and completion stage of tantric practice. The Mahayoga emphasizes the generation stage, Anuyoga the completion stage and Atiyoga the synthesis and transcendence of both.\n\nAs well as being differentiated in terms of emphasis in practice, the three categories of Inner Tantra are also textual categories, with lists of texts assigned to each category; for which see the individual articles for each section.\n\nDudjom Rinpoche, \"The Nyingma School of Tibetan Buddhism: Its Fundamentals and History\", Wisdom Publications, second edition, 2002, .\n\n"}
{"id": "7560516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7560516", "title": "Islamic toilet etiquette", "text": "Islamic toilet etiquette\n\nIslamic toilet etiquette describes the rules that the Islamic faith has regarding personal hygiene when going to the toilet. This code of Muslim hygienical jurisprudence is known as \"Qadaa' al-Haajah\". \n\nThe only issue which the Qur'an mentions is the one of washing one's hands (). Issues of chirality (bodily symmetry), such as whether one uses the left or right hand, and which foot is used to step into or out of toilet areas, are derived from hadith sources.\n\nA Muslim must first find an acceptable place away from standing water, people's pathways, or shade. They are advised that it is better to enter the area with the left foot, facing away from the Qiblah (prayer point).\n\nWhile on the toilet, one must remain silent. Talking, answering greetings, or greeting others is strongly discouraged. When defecating together, two men cannot converse, nor look at each other's genitals. A man should not touch his genitals with the right hand. Eating any food while on the toilet is strictly forbidden.\n\nThe anus must be washed with water after defecating. Similarly, the penis and vulva must be washed with water after urinating. This washing is known as \"istinja\". The Qur'an suggests that one should wash one's hands as well, which is discussed in .\n\nWhen leaving the toilet, one is advised to leave with the right foot, and also say a prayer – \"Praise be to Allah who relieved me of the filth and gave me relief.\" It is also reported in the hadith of Bukhari that whenever Muhammad went to the toilet, he said \"In the name of Allah, O Allah! I seek refuge with You from all offensive and wicked things\" (alternate translation: \"from evil deeds and evil spirits\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25704052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25704052", "title": "Izumo-taishakyo", "text": "Izumo-taishakyo\n\n"}
{"id": "12801013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12801013", "title": "Jacob Tomlin", "text": "Jacob Tomlin\n\nJacob Tomlin was a Protestant Christian missionary who served with the London Missionary Society during the late Qing Dynasty in China. Tomlin and Karl Gutzlaff were the first Protestant missionaries to reside in Thailand, arriving in 1828.\n\nTomlin, Jacob (1844). Missionary Journals and Letters London: James Nisbet and Co. [digitized by University of Hong Kong Libraries, Digital Initiatives, \"China Through Western Eyes.\" ]\n\n"}
{"id": "13069319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13069319", "title": "Jean-Michel Frank", "text": "Jean-Michel Frank\n\nJean-Michel Frank (28 February 1895 – 3 August 1941) was a French interior designer known for minimalist interiors decorated with plain-lined but sumptuous furniture made of luxury materials, such as shagreen, mica, and intricate straw marquetry.\n\nJean-Michel Frank was born in Paris, a son of Léon Frank, a banker, and his wife and cousin, the former Nanette Frank. He was a first cousin of Otto Frank and, therefore, a first cousin, once removed, of the diarist Anne Frank. \n\nFrom 1904, he attended the Lycée Janson de Sailly in Paris. He began law school in 1911, but in 1915, he was hit by the double blow of the deaths of his two elder brothers, Oscar and Georges, on the front lines of World War I and that of his father who committed suicide. In 1928, he lost his mother who had been in a Swiss asylum for several years. From 1920 to 1925 he traveled and visited the world. In Venice he met the cosmopolitan society that gathered around Stravinsky and Diaghilev. Around 1927, Eugenia Errázuriz revealed to him the beauty of 18th century styles and her own modern, minimalist esthetic, and he became her disciple. \n\nHe then got in contact with a Parisian decorator called Adolphe Chanaux to do his apartment in the Rue de Verneuil. During the 1930s he worked with students at the Paris Atelier, now known as Parsons Paris School of Art and Design, where he developed the famous Parsons Table. In 1932, with Chanaux, he opened a shop at #140 Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré. This was to be the consecration of ten years of collaboration, when he decorated for the Rockefellers and Guerlains. He designed Nelson Rockefeller's lavish Fifth Avenue apartment in New York in 1937. During the winter of 1939-40, he left France for Argentina.\n\nIn Argentina, Jean-Michel Frank worked with his old friend and business associate Ignacio Pirovano on several important private and commercial projects. Jean-Michel Frank kept his private apartment in Buenos Aires on the top floor of the company of which he was the Artistic Director in Argentina, COMTE. This building was located on the corner of Florida Street and Marcelo T. De Alvear Avenue. He also visited many of his clients in Buenos Aires including the Born family whose mansion in the northern suburbs of Buenos Aires remains his single most important project. The entire collection is still intact and in-place in precisely the manner that Jean-Michel Frank conceived it. Recently published books shed more light on Frank's work with Comte in Argentina.\n\nIn 1941, Frank made a trip to New York City. Sadly overcome by depression he committed suicide by throwing himself from the window of a Manhattan apartment building, leaving all his personal possessions in his apartment in Buenos Aires.\n\nA unique collection of home furniture designed by Frank for Hermès in 1924 is considered a classic set of minimalist homeware. The iconic designs – including a sheepskin club chair and parchment-covered dressing table – hold an enduring popularity, and Hermès rereleased many of the items to great fanfare in early 2011.\n\nJean-Michel Frank today is recognized by leading designers the world over as one of the greatest sources of inspiration to many present-day designs. His pieces are highly sought after by leading collectors worldwide. Many of the premier auction houses offer his pieces and prices are often in excess of 200,000 EUR. An important exhibition was mounted towards the end of 2010 at a leading gallery in New York's SoHo. This exhibition highlighted Frank's work with Comte in Argentina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7509546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7509546", "title": "John 1:1", "text": "John 1:1\n\nJohn 1:1 is the first verse in the opening chapter of the Gospel of John. In the Douay–Rheims, King James, New International, and other versions of the Bible, the verse reads:\nIn the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.\nThe phrase \"the Word\" (a translation of the Greek word \"Logos\") is widely interpreted as referring to Jesus, as indicated in other verses later in the same chapter. This verse and others throughout Johannine literature connect the Christian understanding of Jesus to the philosophical idea of the Logos and the Hebrew Wisdom literature. They also set the stage for the later development of Trinitarian theology early in the post-biblical era.\n\nAccording to Matthew Henry (1662–1714) in his commentary, Jesus is called the \"Word\" in this opening verse because he \"was\" the Son of God sent to earth to reveal his Father's mind to the world. He asserts that a plain reading of the verse written by John the Evangelist should be understood as proof that Jesus is God; that Jesus has the same essence as God and existed with God the Father from the very beginning, the Word was \"with\" God, and the Word \"was\" God.\n\nJohn 1:1 opens the larger section sometimes described as the \"Prologue to John\" (). The Prologue deals with Jesus, the \"Word made flesh\" who \"dwelt among us\" ().\n\nThe Greek verse has been a source of much debate among Bible scholars and translators.\n\nTertullian in the early third century wrote:\nNow if this one [the Word] is God according to John (\"the Word was God\"), then you have two: one who speaks that it may be, and another who carries it out. However, how you should accept this as \"another\" I have explained: as concerning person, not substance, and as distinction, not division.\n\nAnd a little later:\n\nAnd that you may think more fully on this, accept also that in the Psalm two gods are mentioned: \"Thy throne, God, is forever, a rod of right direction is the rod of thy kingdom; thou hast loved justice and hated iniquity, therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee.\" If he is speaking to a god, and the god is anointed by a god, then also here he affirms two gods... More is what you will find just the same in the Gospel: \"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God\": One who was, and another in whose presence he was.\n\nOrigen of Alexandria, a teacher in Greek grammar of the third century, wrote about the use of the definite article:\n\nWe next notice John's use of the article in these sentences. He does not write without care in this respect, nor is he unfamiliar with the niceties of the Greek tongue. In some cases he uses the article, and in some he omits it. He adds the article to the Logos, but to the name of God he adds it sometimes only. He uses the article, when the name of God refers to the uncreated cause of all things, and omits it when the Logos is named God...(then he expands the understanding from John 1:1 by warning of the two extremes: Modalists & unitartians) They are afraid that they may be proclaiming two Gods, and their fear drives them into doctrines which are false and wicked. Either they deny that the Son has a distinct nature of His own besides that of the Father, and make Him whom they call the Son to be God all but the name, or they deny the divinity of the Son, giving Him a separate existence of His own, and making His sphere of essence fall outside that of the Father, so that they are separable from each other. . The true God, then, is The God (ho theos).\"\n\nElsewhere, Origen refers to Christ as a \"second God\", not in a sense of separate \"Ousios\" or essence, but a separate \"Hypostasis\" - if we are to use the later Christian Terminology- and goes on to qualify the term.\n\nThe traditional rendering in English is:\n\nIn the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.\n\nTranslations by James Moffatt, Edgar J. Goodspeed and Hugh J. Schonfield render part of the verse as \"...the Word [Logos] was divine\". Murray J. Harris writes,\n\n[It] is clear that in the translation \"the Word was God\", the term God is being used to denote his nature or essence, and not his person. But in normal English usage \"God\" is a proper noun, referring to the person of the Father or corporately to the three persons of the Godhead. Moreover, \"the Word was God\" suggests that \"the Word\" and \"God\" are convertible terms, that the proposition is reciprocating. But the Word is neither the Father nor the Trinity … The rendering cannot stand without explanation.\"\n\nAn Eastern/Greek Orthodox Bible commentary notes:\n\nThis second \"theos\" could also be translated 'divine' as the construction indicates \"a qualitative sense for theos\". The Word is \"not\" God in the sense that he is the \"same person\" as the \"theos\" mentioned in 1:1a; he is not God the Father (God absolutely as in common NT usage) or the Trinity. The point being made is that the Logos is of the \"same uncreated nature\" or essence as God the Father, with whom he eternally exists. This verse is echoed in the Nicene Creed: \"God (qualitative or derivative) from God (personal, the Father), Light from Light, True God from True God… \"homoousion\" with the Father.\"\n\nOther variations of rendering John 1:1c also exist:\n\n\nThere are two issues affecting the translating of the verse, theology and proper application of grammatical rules. The commonly held theology that Jesus is God naturally leads one to believe that the proper way to render the verse is the one which is most popular. The opposing theology that Jesus is subordinate to God as his Chief agent leads to the conclusion that \"... a god\" or \"... divine\" is the proper rendering. Some scholars oppose the translation \"...a god\", while other scholars believe it is possible or even preferable.\n\nThe Greek article is often translated \"the\", which is the English definite article, but it can have a range of meanings that can be quite different from those found in English, and require context to interpret. Ancient Greek does not have an indefinite article like the English word \"a\", and nominatives without articles also have a range of meanings that require context to interpret.\n\nIn interpreting this verse, \"Colwell's rule\" should be taken into consideration, which says that a definite predicate which is before the verb \"to be\" usually does not have the definite article. Ernest Cadman Colwell writes:\n\nThe question is whether Colwell's rule helps in interpreting John 1:1. It has been pointed out that Colwell's rule has been misapplied as its converse, as though it implied definiteness.\n\nDaniel B. Wallace argues that the use of the anarthrous \"theos\" (the lack of the definite article before the second \"theos\") is due to its use as a qualitative noun, describing the nature or essence of the Word, not due to Colwell's rule.\n\nThe rendering as \"a god\" is justified by some non-Trinitarians by comparing it with Acts 28:6 which has a similar grammatical construction' \"The people expected him to swell up or suddenly fall dead; but after waiting a long time and seeing nothing unusual happen to him, they changed their minds and said he was a god.\". However, it was noted that the Hebrew words El, HaElohim and Yahweh (all referring to God) were rendered as anarthrous \"theos\" in the Septuagint at , , , and among many other locations. Moreover, in the New Testament anarthrous \"theos\" was used to refer to God in locations including , , , and (although the last two references do have an adjective aspect to them). Therefore, anarthrous or arthrous constructions by themselves, without context, cannot determine how to render it into a target language. In the septuagint text, \"supported by all MSS... reads πρὸς τὸν θεόν for the Hebrew עִם־ יְהֹוָ֔ה\", but the oldest Greek text in Papyrus Fouad 266 has written πρὸς יהוה.\n\nIn the October 2011 Journal of Theological Studies, Brian J. Wright and Tim Ricchuiti reason that the indefinite article in the Coptic translation, of John 1:1, has a qualitative meaning. Many such occurrences for qualitative nouns are identified in the Coptic New Testament, including and . Moreover, the indefinite article is used to refer to God in and .\n\nCoptic scholar George Horner renders the Sahidic Coptic of John 1:1c as \"and [a] God was the word,\" while his apparatus mentions, \"Square brackets imply words used by the Coptic and not required by the English\".\n\n\"In the beginning (\"archē\") was the Word (\"logos\")\" may be compared with:\n\"The reference to the opening words of the Old Testament is obvious, and is the more striking when we remember that a Jew would constantly speak of and quote from the book of Genesis as \"Berēshîth\" (\"in the beginning\"). It is quite in harmony with the Hebrew tone of this Gospel to do so, and it can hardly be that St. John wrote his Berēshîth without having that of Moses present to his mind, and without being guided by its meaning.\n\n\"...was God (\"Theós\")\" may be compared with Acts 28:6:\n\nFrom the Biblos Interlinear Bible:\n\nFrom Scrivener's \"Textus Receptus\" 1894:\n\nThe Greek word λόγος or logos is a word with various meanings. It is often translated into English as \"Word\" but can also mean thought, speech, account, meaning, reason, proportion, principle, standard, or logic, among other things. It has varied use in the fields of philosophy, analytical psychology, rhetoric and religion.\n\nOf the canonical gospels, John has the highest explicit Christology. Here Jesus is the only-begotten Son of God, the Way, the Truth, the Life, the True Vine, etc. In 1:1, John identifies Jesus as the \"Logos\", that which made the existence of the created world possible.\n\nIn mainstream Christian understanding of John's Christology, the conception that Jesus Christ is the \"Logos\" has been important in establishing the doctrine of Jesus' divinity, as well as that of the Trinity, as set forth in the Chalcedonian Definition.\n\nThe debate about the nature of Christ from the first century through the Council of Chalcedon in 451 CE must be understood in light of the pervasive world view of Platonic dualism. Platonism is normally divided into four periods: Old Academy (347-267 BCE), New Academy (267-80 BCE), Middle Platonism (80 BCE-250 CE), and Neoplatonism (250 CE through the Reformation).\n\nSome scholars of the Bible have suggested that John made creative use of double meaning in the word \"Logos\" to communicate to both Jews, who were familiar with the Wisdom tradition in Judaism, and Hellenic polytheism, especially followers of Philo, often called Hellenistic Judaism. Each of these two groups had its own history associated with the concept of the Logos, and each could understand John's use of the term from one or both of those contexts. Especially for the Hellenists, however, John turns the concept of the Logos on its head when he claimed \"the \"Logos\" became flesh and dwelt among us\" (John 1:14).\n\nGordon Clark translated \"Logos\" as \"Logic\" in the opening verses of the Gospel: \"In the beginning was the Logic, and the Logic was with God and the Logic was God.\" He meant to imply by this translation that the laws of logic were contained in the Bible itself and were therefore not a secular principle imposed on the Christian worldview.\n\nFollowing Jesuit translations of the 18th century, most modern Bible translations into Chinese use the word \"Tao\" in John 1:1 to translate \"Logos\", following the use as \"Idea\" in Taoism.\n\nIn Unitarianism there are other interpretations of John 1:1. In the commentaries on John 1 by Lelio Sozzini (Zurich, c.1559) and his nephew Fausto Sozzini (Lyons, c.1562) the \"word\" being \"made flesh\" is taken as a reference to the virgin birth, and not to the personal pre-existence of Christ. The passages in the New Testament referring to the Logos were explained by Fausto Sozzini as relating to the foreknown work of Christ as the author of the new creation, not as relating to the \"old\" Genesis creation. Fausto Sozzini aimed to \"completely de-Platonize\" the reading of John 1:1-15.\n"}
{"id": "976633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=976633", "title": "John Fire Lame Deer", "text": "John Fire Lame Deer\n\nJohn Fire Lame Deer (in Lakota Tȟáȟča Hušté; March 17, 1903 – December 14, 1976, also known as Lame Deer, John Fire and John (Fire) Lame Deer) was a Lakota holy man, member of the Heyoka society, grandson of the Miniconjou head man Lame Deer, and father of Archie Fire Lame Deer.\n\nJohn Fire Lame Deer was a Mineconju-Lakota Sioux born on the Rosebud Indian Reservation. His father was Silas Fire Let-Them-Have-Enough. His mother was Sally Red Blanket. He lived with his grandparents until he was 6 or 7, after which he was placed in a day school near the family until age fourteen. He was then sent to a boarding school, one of many run by the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs for Indian youth. These schools were designed to assimilate Native Americans into the dominant culture after their forced settlement on reservations.\n\nLame Deer's life as a young man was rough and wild; he traveled the rodeo circuit as a rider and later as a rodeo clown. According to his personal account, he drank, gambled, womanized, and once went on a several-day-long car theft and drinking binge.\n\nMaking his home at the Pine Ridge Reservation and traveling around the country, Lame Deer became known both among the Lakota and to the American public at a time when indigenous culture and spirituality were going through a period of rebirth and the psychedelic movement of the 1960s had yet to disintegrate. He often participated in American Indian Movement events, including sit-ins at the Black Hills. The Black Hills is land that was legally owned by the Lakota until it was illegally seized by the United States government without compensation after the discovery of gold in the area. The Black Hills are sacred to the Lakota and a number of other Plains tribes. The U.S. Supreme Court found that the federal government \"decided to abandon the Nation's treaty obligation to preserve the integrity of the Sioux territory\" and used military force to seize the Black Hills. The Lakota continue to campaign for the return of the Black Hills.\n\nIn 1972, Richard Erdoes published \"Lame Deer, Seeker of Visions\"; his recorded interviews with Lame Deer are part of the Richard Erdoes Papers at the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Yale University.\n\nThe book is about Lame Deer's later life, when he decided that he wanted to be a teacher and a healer. Erdoes writes of Lame Deer's opinions of Elk, Bear, Buffalo, Coyote, and Badger medicine, and the importance Lakota ceremonial traditions played in his later life and eventual understanding of the world.\n"}
{"id": "43685572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43685572", "title": "Karramiyya", "text": "Karramiyya\n\nKarramiyya () is a sect in Islam which flourished in the central and eastern parts of the Islamic worlds, and especially in the Iranian regions, from the 9th century until the Mongol invasions in the 13th century.\nThe sect was founded by a Sistani named Abū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad b. Karrām (d. 896) who was a popular preacher in Khurasan in the 9th century in the vicinity of Nishapur. He later emigrated with many of his followers to Jerusalem. According to him, the Karrāmites were also called the \"followers of Abū'Abdallāh\" \" (aṣḥāb Abī'Abdallāh) \". . Its main distribution areas were in Greater Khorasan, Transoxiana and eastern peripheral areas of Iran. Early Ghaznavids and the early Ghurid dynasty granted the Karrāmīyan rulership. The most important center of the community remained until the end of the 11th century Nishapur. After its decline, the Karrāmīya survived only in Ghazni and Ghor in the area of today's Afghanistan.\n\nThe doctrine of the Karramiyya consisted of literalism and anthropomorphism. Ibn Karram considered that God was a substance and that He had a body (\"jism\") finite in certain directions when He comes into contact with the Throne. This belief was rejected by orthodox Sunni Muslim scholars such as Ibn Hajar al-Haytami who stated that, \"They believe that God is a body sitting on the Throne, touching it and resting on it, and then moves down every night during the last third of the night to the heavens, and then goes back to His place at dawn.\"\n\nThey also believed that Munkar and Nakir angels were actually the same as guardian angels on the right and left side of every person.\n\nThe Karramiyya also held the view that the world was eternal and that God's power was limited.\n\nThese beliefs were rejected by many Sunni theologians as heretical and eventually disappeared. The Karramiyya operated centers of worship and propagated asceticism.\n"}
{"id": "24327732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24327732", "title": "Katherine Burton", "text": "Katherine Burton\n\nKatherine Burton (born Katherine Kurz, 18 Mar 1887, in Lakewood, near Cleveland, Ohio; died September 22, 1969) was an American Roman Catholic convert who became renowned in her post-conversion years as a religious biographer. She was also a prominent social activist campaigning for family rights, a poet and a short story writer.\n\nBurton was originally the daughter of a German Lutheran family who rarely went to church. Apart from Sunday School it is thought that in her childhood she had little interest in religion. She graduated about 1906 from Western Reserve College. At that time she considered herself an agnostic and never attended religious services, even after marrying Harry Payne Burton, a journalist who had originally intended to become an Episcopal priest 6 Aug 1910. Harry was to have considerable trouble during his marriage - which produced three children - eventually committing suicide 3 Apr 1952.\n\nDuring the following decade, she travelled frequently, in the process coming into contact with Selden Delany, the assistant rector at an Episcopal Church in New York City, who was to lead her journey to Catholicism in the coming years. Delany, who died in 1935, converted to Catholicism in the late 1920s and his book \"Why Rome?\", published in 1930, convinced Katherine to convert immediately. She was received into the Church on September 8, 1930, but even before that she wrote two poems, \"So Died a True Christian\" and \"A Prayer for Ronald\" (both 1927) that had a strongly Catholic flavour.\n\nAlong with her close friend and fellow convert Dorothy Day, Burton was the first major Catholic woman journalist in the United States. In 1933, at the same time as Day established the Catholic Worker, Burton wrote a journal \"Woman\" that was published by the Passionist Fathers and advocated motherhood as the greatest possible vocation at a time when it was becoming very difficult for women to raise children due to economic conditions. On the other hand, Burton believed that women should be aided as much as possible if they were forced to seek paid employment outside the home. Katherine Burton in fact believed that balancing work and family was an extremely rich reward for any woman who could do so. Like Day, Katherine Burton was initially a pacifist, but in contrast to Day's consistent stance, Burton relented from pacifism during World War II because she feared the result of the spread of totalitarianism if the US did nothing about it.\n\nBurton was, even before her conversion, interested in the problems women faced with large families, and even before it become the only method of birth control approved by the Church, she was a developer and advocate of the rhythm method of contraception, having known about the fertile and infertile periods of the menstrual cycle ever since her days at college during the 1900s. She also believed that most Roman Catholic writers of her time were stylistically flawed because they were \"too arrogant and preachy\", with the result that she wrote biographies that read more like fiction.\n\nDuring this time, she was also an associate editor at Redbook magazine and wrote a column for a Catholic periodical.\n\nShe died 22 Sep 1969 in Bronxville, New York, and is buried in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\n"}
{"id": "35079501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35079501", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Russia", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Russia\n\nThe Catholic Church in Russia, united in the Episcopal Conference of Russia, comprises\n\nThere are no exempt Latin jurisdictions.\n\nThere is an Apostolic Nunciature as papal diplomatic representation (embassy-level) to the Russian Federation in the national capital Moscow.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAfter the Crimea peninsula was unilaterally annexed by the Russian Federation in March 2014, the Catholic hierarchy was not subsequently changed. The Latin rite Catholics of Crimea belong to the diocese of Odessa-Simferopol which is a Suffragan of the archdiocese of Lviv.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23002973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23002973", "title": "List of Hindu temples in Germany", "text": "List of Hindu temples in Germany\n\nThis is a List of Hindu temples in Germany.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n-----------------------------------------------------\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35782479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35782479", "title": "List of Roman birth and childhood deities", "text": "List of Roman birth and childhood deities\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, birth and childhood deities were thought to care for every aspect of conception, pregnancy, childbirth, and child development. Some major deities of Roman religion had a specialized function they contributed to this sphere of human life, while other deities are known only by the name with which they were invoked to promote or avert a particular action. Several of these slight \"divinities of the moment\" are mentioned in surviving texts only by Christian polemicists.\n\nAn extensive Greek and Latin medical literature covered obstetrics and infant care, and the 2nd century Greek gynecologist Soranus of Ephesus advised midwives not to be superstitious. But childbirth in antiquity remained a life-threatening experience for both the woman and her newborn, with infant mortality as high as 30 or 40 percent. Rites of passage pertaining to birth and death had several parallel aspects. Maternal death was common: one of the most famous was Julia, daughter of Julius Caesar and wife of Pompey. Her infant died a few days later, severing the family ties between her father and husband and hastening the Caesar's Civil War, which ended the Roman Republic. Some ritual practices may be characterized as anxious superstitions, but the religious aura surrounding childbirth reflects the high value Romans placed on family, tradition \"(mos maiorum)\", and compatibility of the sexes. Under the Empire, children were celebrated on coins, as was Juno Lucina, the primary goddess of childbirth, as well as in public art. Funerary art, such as relief on sarcophagi, sometimes showed scenes from the deceased's life, including birth or the first bath.\n\nOnly those who died after the age of 10 were given full funeral and commemorative rites, which in ancient Rome were observed by families several days during the year (see Parentalia). Infants less than one year of age received no formal rites. The lack of ritual observances pertains to the legal status of the individual in society, not the emotional response of families to the loss. As Cicero reflected:\n\nSome think that if a small child dies this must be borne with equanimity; if it is still in its cradle there should not even be a lament. And yet it is from the latter that nature has more cruelly demanded back the gift she had given.\n\nThe most extensive lists of deities pertaining to the conception-birth-development cycle come from the Church Fathers, especially Augustine of Hippo and Tertullian. Augustine in particular is known to have used the now-fragmentary theological works of Marcus Terentius Varro, the 1st century BC Roman scholar, who in turn referenced the books of the Roman pontiffs. The purpose of the patristic writers was to debunk traditional Roman religion, but they provide useful information despite their mocking tone. Scattered mentions occur throughout Latin literature.\n\nThe following list of deities is organized chronologically by the role they play in the process.\n\nThe gods of the marriage bed \"(di coniugales)\" are also gods of conception. Juno, one of the three deities of the Capitoline Triad, presides over union and marriage as well, and some of the minor deities invoked for success in conceiving and delivering a child may have been functional aspects of her powers.\n\n\nThe Parcae are the three goddesses of fate \"(tria fata)\": Nona, Decima, and Parca (singular of \"Parcae\"), also known as Partula in relation to birthing. Nona and Decima determine the right time for birth, assuring the completion of the nine-month term (ten in Roman inclusive counting). Parca or Partula oversees \"partus\", birth as the initial separation from the mother's body (as in English '\"postpartum\"). At the very moment of birth, or immediately after, Parca establishes that the new life will have a limit, and therefore she is also a goddess of death called Morta (English \"mortal\"). The \"profatio Parcae\", \"prophecy of Parca,\" marked the child as a mortal being, and was not a pronouncement of individual destiny. The first week of the child's life was regarded as an extremely perilous and tentative time, and the child was not recognized as an individual until the \"dies lustricus\" (see below).\n\nThe primary deity presiding over the delivery was Juno Lucina, who may in fact be a form of Diana. Those invoking her aid let their hair down and loosened their clothing as a form of reverse binding ritual intended to facilitate labor. Soranus advised women about to give birth to unbind their hair and loosen clothing to promote relaxation, not for any magical effect.\n\n\"Lucina\" as a title of the birth goddess is usually seen as a metaphor for bringing the newborn into the light \"(lux, lucis)\". \"Luces\", plural (\"lights\"), can mean \"periods of light, daylight hours, days.\" \"Diespiter\", \"Father of Day,\" is thus her masculine counterpart; if his name is taken as a doublet for Jupiter, then Juno Lucina and Diespiter can be understood as a male-female complement.\n\nDiespiter, however, is also identified in Latin literature with the ruler of the underworld, Dis pater. The functions of \"chthonic\" deities such as Dis (or Pluto) and his consort Proserpina are not confined to death; they are often concerned with agricultural fertility and the giving of nourishment for life, since plants for food grow from seeds hidden in the ground. In the mystery religions, the divine couple preside over the soul's \"birth\" or rebirth in the afterlife. The shadowy goddess Mana Genita was likewise concerned with both birth and mortality, particularly of infants, as was Hecate. \n\nIn contrast to the vast majority of deities, both birth goddesses and underworld deities received sacrifices at night. Ancient writers conventionally situate labor and birth at night; it may be that night is thought of as the darkness of the womb, from which the newborn emerges into the (day)light.\n\nThe cyclical place of the goddess Candelifera, \"She who bears the candle,\" is uncertain. It is sometimes thought that she provides an artificial light for labor that occurs at night. A long labor was considered likely for first-time mothers, so at least a part of the birthing process would occur at night. According to Plutarch, light symbolizes birth, but the candle may have been thought of as less a symbol than an actual kindling of life, or a magic equivalent to the life of the infant. Candelifera may also be the nursery light kept burning against spirits of darkness that would threaten the infant in the coming week. Even in the Christian era, lamps were lit in nurseries to illuminate sacred images and drive away child-snatching demons such as the Gello.\n\nOnce the child came into the light, a number of rituals were enacted over the course of the following week. An offerings table received congratulatory sacrifices from the mother's female friends. Three deities—Intercidona, Pilumnus, and Deverra—were invoked to drive away Silvanus, the wild woodland god of trees: three men secured the household every night by striking the threshold \"(limen\"; see liminality) with an axe and then a pestle, followed by sweeping it.\nIn the atrium of the house, a bed was made up for Juno, and a table set for Hercules. In the Hellenized mythological tradition, Juno tried to prevent the birth of Hercules, as it resulted from Jupiter's infidelity. Ovid has Lucina crossing her knees and fingers to bind the labor. Etruscan religion, however, emphasized the role that Juno (as Uni) played in endowing Hercle with his divine nature through the drinking of her breast milk.\n\n\nNundina presides over the \"dies lustricus\", the purification day when the child was given a name \"(praenomen)\". This occurred on the eighth day for girls and the ninth day for boys, a difference Plutarch explains by noting that \"it is a fact that the female grows up, and attains maturity and perfection before the male.\" Until the umbilical cord fell off, typically on the seventh day, the baby was regarded as \"more like a plant than an animal,\" as Plutarch expresses it. The ceremony of the \"dies lustricus\" was thus postponed until the last tangible connection to the mother's body was dissolved, and the child was seen \"as no longer forming part of the mother, and in this way as possessing an independent existence which justified its receiving a name of its own and therefore a fate of its own.\" The day was celebrated with a family feast.\n\nOn the \"dies lustricus\", the Fata Scribunda were invoked. The \"Written Fates\" probably refers to a ceremonial writing down of the child's new name, perhaps in a family chronicle. To the Romans, the giving of a name was as important as being born. The receiving of a \"praenomen\" inaugurated the child as an individual with its own fate.\n\nIn well-to-do households, children were cared for by nursemaids (\"nutrices\", singular \"nutrix\", which can mean either a wet nurse who might be a slave or a paid professional of free status, or more generally any nursery maid, who would be a household slave). Mothers with a nursery staff were still expected to supervise the quality of care, education, and emotional wellbeing of children. Ideally, fathers would take an interest even in their infant children; Cato liked to be present when his wife bathed and swaddled their child. Nursemaids might make their own bloodless offerings to deities who protected and fostered the growth of children. Most of the \"teaching gods\" are female, perhaps because they themselves were thought of as divine nursemaids. The gods who encourage speech, however, are male. The ability to speak well was a defining characteristic of the elite citizen. Although women were admired for speaking persuasively, oratory was regarded as a masculine pursuit essential to public life.\n\n\n\nChildren wore the \"toga praetexta\", with a purple band that marked them as sacred and inviolable, and an amulet \"(bulla\") to ward off malevolence.\n\nJames Joyce mentions a few Roman birth deities by name in his works. In the \"Oxen of the Sun\" episode of \"Ulysses\", he combines an allusion to Horace \"(nunc est bibendum)\" with an invocation of Partula and Pertunda \"(per deam Partulam et Pertundam)\" in anticipation of the birth of Purefoy. Cunina, Statulina, and Edulia are mentioned in \"Finnegans Wake\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36413254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36413254", "title": "List of mosques in Albania", "text": "List of mosques in Albania\n\nThis is a list of the main mosques and tekkes in Albania.\n\n740 mosques were destroyed by communist authorities in 1967 when state atheism was first introduced in the country.\nThe regime also destroyed 530 tekkes, tombs and mausoleums.\n"}
{"id": "1218392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218392", "title": "Mahasthamaprapta", "text": "Mahasthamaprapta\n\nMahāsthāmaprāpta is a bodhisattva mahāsattva that represents the power of wisdom, often depicted in a trinity with Amitābha and Avalokiteśvara (Guanyin), especially in Pure Land Buddhism. His name literally means \"arrival of the great strength\".\n\nMahāsthāmaprāpta is one of the Eight Great Bodhisattvas in Mahayana Buddhism, along with Mañjuśrī, Samantabhadra, Avalokiteśvara, Ākāśagarbha, Kṣitigarbha, Maitreya and Sarvanivarana-Vishkambhin.\n\nIn Chinese Buddhism, he is usually portrayed as a woman, with a likeness similar to Avalokiteśvara. He is also one of the Japanese Thirteen Buddhas in Shingon Buddhism. In Tibetan Buddhism, Mahāsthāmaprāpta is equated with Vajrapani, who is one of his incarnations and was known as the Protector of Gautama Buddha. \n\nMahāsthāmaprāpta is one of the oldest bodhisattvas and is regarded as powerful, especially in the Pure Land school, where he takes an important role in the long \"Longer Sukhāvatīvyūha Sūtra\". He is also associated with the temple guardians Kongo Rikishi across Japan. \n\nIn the \"Śūraṅgama Sūtra\", Mahāsthāmaprāpta tells of how he gained enlightenment through the practice of nianfo, or continuous pure mindfulness of Amitābha, to obtain samādhi. In the \"Amitayurdhyana Sutra\", Mahāsthāmaprāpta is symbolised by the moon while Avalokiteśvara is represented by the sun.\n\nMonk Yìnguāng (), a teacher of Pure Land Buddhism, was widely considered to be a metaphorical manifestation of Mahāsthāmaprāpta after two people: 1. a Christian who had never heard of him before; and 2. a Chinese student of Monk Yinguang--both dreamed of that independently.\n\n"}
{"id": "81729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81729", "title": "Melampus", "text": "Melampus\n\nIn Greek mythology, Melampus (, \"Melampous\"), was a legendary soothsayer and healer, originally of Pylos, who ruled at Argos. He was the introducer of the worship of Dionysus, according to Herodotus, who asserted that his powers as a seer were derived from the Egyptians and that he could understand the language of animals. A number of pseudepigraphal works of divination were circulated in Classical and Hellenistic times under the name Melampus. According to Herodotus and Pausanias (vi.17.6), on the authority of Hesiod, his father was Amythaon, whose name implies the \"ineffable\" or \"unspeakably great\"; thus Melampus and his heirs were \"Amythaides\" of the \"House of Amythaon\".\n\nIn Homer's \"Odyssey\", a digression concerning the lineage of Theoclymenus, \"a prophet, sprung from Melampus' line of seers\", sketches the epic narrative concerning Melampus with such brevity that its details must have been familiar to Homer's audience. With brief hints, a sequence of episodes is alluded to, in which we discern strife in Pylos between Melampus and Neleus, who usurps Melampus's \"great high house\", forcing him into heroic exile. Melampus spends a year as bondsman in the house of Phylacus, \"all for Neleus' daughter Pero\". At his extremity, Melampus is visited by \"the mad spell a Fury, murderous spirit, cast upon his mind. But the seer worked free of death\" and succeeded at last in rustling Phylacus's cattle back to Pylos, where he avenged himself on Neleus and gave Pero in marriage to his brother Bias. But Melampus's own destiny lay in Argos, where he lived and ruled, married and sired a long line, also briefly sketched in Homer's excursus.\n\nAt a later date the narrative was embellished with anecdotal detail: Melampus lived in Pylos during the reign of Anaxagoras or possibly Proetus. The king offered a reward for anybody that could heal his son, who suffered from a strange malady. Melampus killed an ox and talked to the vultures that came to eat the corpse. They said that the last time they had had such a feast was when the king had made a sacrifice. They told Melampus that the prince had been frightened of the big, bloody knife and the king tossed it aside to calm the child. It had hit a tree and injured a hamadryad, who cursed the prince with the sickness. The hamadryad told Melampus that the boy would be healed if the knife was taken out of the trunk of the tree and boiled, then the prince should drink the rusty water that resulted. Melampus followed her directions and, as payment for the cure, demanded two thirds of the kingdom for himself, and one third for his brother, Bias. The king agreed.\n\nIn another version of Melampus' story, when the women of Argos were driven mad by Dionysus, in the reign of Anaxagoras or possibly Proetus, Melampus was brought in to cure them, but demanded a third of the kingdom as payment. The king refused, but the women became wilder than ever, and he was forced to seek out Melampus again, who this time demanded both a third for himself and another third for his brother Bias. The king felt he had no choice but to agree, and so Melampus led them to the city of Lusi where they were healed of their madness in a sanctuary of Artemis.\n\nMelampus' reputation as a seer spawned myths that verge on anecdote, to account for his gift, the offering of serpents. In one, as a young boy, he told his servants not to kill two snakes. Grateful, the snakes gave Melampus the ability to speak with animals.\n\nAnother version says that he found a mother snake that had been crushed under a cart and two orphaned babies. Rather than leaving them he gave the snake a burial and raised the young ones. To thank him they licked his ears so clean that he was able to understand animals.\n\nAfter this there were three kings ruling Argos at any time, one descended from each of Bias, Melampus, and Anaxagoras. Melampus was succeeded by his son Mantius, and his house of Melampus lasted down to the brothers Alcmaeon and Amphilochus, who fought in the Trojan War.\n\nLate in his life, Melampus was kidnapped. In his cell, he overheard two termites talking, claiming they would be finished eating through Melampus' ceiling the next morning. Melampus called his captors and demanded a move. He made such an uproar that the kidnappers agreed. When the ceiling collapsed the next morning, the kidnappers decided he was a prophet and that to hold on to him might offend the gods. They let him go.\n\nMelampus also figures in the tale of King Midas, the pleasure-loving King of Phrygia. He was chosen to be a judge between the famous musical contest between Apollo and Marsyas. Although Apollo clearly had won, he disagreed with the other judges. Apollo called the King an ass, and to prove his point he touched him on the head and gave Midas the ears of a donkey. Long and hairy they sprouted up, and Midas in a panic covered them up with a tall Phrygian cap, hoping nobody ever discovered his embarrassing secret.\nOnly his barber knew of this disgraceful matter, but Midas had warned him that he would be put to death if ever he revealed to anyone the asinine state of the King's ears. The barber found himself bursting with the secret and couldn't bear to keep the gossip to himself, but was afraid for his life. So he dug a hole in the bank of the Pactolus river and, after making certain that nobody was listening, he whispered into the hole that \"King Midas has ass's ears.\" Filling up the hole to forever bury the secret, the barber went away happy and at peace with himself.\n\nAll was well until the next spring, when a reed sprouted up from the hole and whispered to the other reeds that King Midas had the ears of a donkey. These reeds in turn whispered the secret to all creatures who passed. Soon the birds learned the news and brought it to Melampus. Melampus told all his friends and soon the entire kingdom knew about King Midas' miserable secret.\n\nThree works have survived under the name \"Melampus.\" \nA certain Melampus wrote a treatise on the laws of symmetry prior to the first century BC. (Vitruvius VII, introduction). This treatise is lost.\n\nA work attributed in Antiquity to Hesiod exists in such fragmentary quotations and chance remarks that its reconstruction, according to Walter Burkert, is \"most uncertain.\" An attempt was made by I Löffler, \"Die Melampodie: Versuch einer Rekonstruction des Inhalts\" (1963).\n\n"}
{"id": "18600363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18600363", "title": "Mothman", "text": "Mothman\n\nIn West Virginia folklore, the Mothman is a creature reportedly seen in the Point Pleasant area from November 12, 1966, to December 15, 1967. The first newspaper report was published in the \"Point Pleasant Register\" dated November 16, 1966, titled \"Couples See Man-Sized Bird ... Creature ... Something\". The national press soon picked up the reports and helped spread the story across the United States. \n\nThe Mothman was introduced to a wider audience by Gray Barker in 1970 and later popularized by John Keel in his 1975 book \"The Mothman Prophecies\", claiming that there were supernatural events related to the sightings, and a connection to the collapse of the Silver Bridge.\n\nThe Mothman appears in popular culture. The 2002 film \"The Mothman Prophecies\", starring Richard Gere, was based on Keel's book. An annual festival in Point Pleasant is devoted to the Mothman legend.\n\nOn November 12, 1966, five men who were digging a grave at a cemetery near Clendenin, West Virginia, claimed to see a man-like figure fly low from the trees over their heads. This is often identified as the first known sighting of what became known as the Mothman.\n\nShortly thereafter, on November 15, 1966, two young couples from Point Pleasant, Roger and Linda Scarberry and Steve and Mary Mallette, told police they saw a large grey creature whose eyes \"glowed red\" when the car's headlights picked it up. They described it as a \"large flying man with ten-foot wings\", following their car while they were driving in an area outside of town known as \"the TNT area\", the site of a former World War II munitions plant.\nDuring the next few days, other people reported similar sightings. \nTwo volunteer firemen who saw it said it was a \"large bird with red eyes\". Mason County Sheriff George Johnson commented that he believed the sightings were due to an unusually large heron he termed a \"shitepoke\". Contractor Newell Partridge told Johnson that when he aimed a flashlight at a creature in a nearby field its eyes glowed \"like bicycle reflectors\", and blamed buzzing noises from his television set and the disappearance of his German Shepherd dog on the creature. Wildlife biologist Dr. Robert L. Smith at West Virginia University told reporters that descriptions and sightings all fit the sandhill crane, a large American crane almost as high as a man with a seven-foot wingspan featuring circles of reddish coloring around the eyes, and that the bird may have wandered out of its migration route. This particular crane was unrecognized at first because it was not native to this region.\n\nAfter the December 15, 1967, collapse of the Silver Bridge and the death of 46 people, the incident gave rise to the legend and connected the Mothman sightings to the bridge collapse.\n\nIn 2016, WCHS-TV published a photo purported to be of Mothman taken by an anonymous man while driving on Route 2. Science writer Sharon A. Hill proposed that the photo showed \"a bird, perhaps an owl, carrying a frog or snake away\" and wrote that \"there is zero reason to suspect it is the Mothman as described in legend. There are too many far more reasonable explanations.\"\n\nFolklorist Jan Harold Brunvand notes that Mothman has been widely covered in the popular press, some claiming sightings connected with UFOs, and others claiming that a military storage site was Mothman's \"home\". Brunvand notes that recountings of the 1966-67 Mothman reports usually state that at least 100 people saw Mothman with many more \"afraid to report their sightings\" but observed that written sources for such stories consisted of children's books or sensationalized or undocumented accounts that fail to quote identifiable persons. Brunvand found elements in common among many Mothman reports and much older folk tales, suggesting that something real may have triggered the scares and became woven with existing folklore. He also records anecdotal tales of Mothman supposedly attacking the roofs of parked cars inhabited by teenagers.\n\nConversely, Joe Nickell says that a number of hoaxes followed the publicity generated by the original reports, such as a group of construction workers who tied flashlights to helium balloons. Nickell attributes the Mothman reports to pranks, misidentified planes, and sightings of a barred owl, an albino owl, suggesting that the Mothman's \"glowing eyes\" were actually red-eye effect caused from the reflection of light from flashlights or other bright light sources. The area lies outside the snowy owl's usual range.\n\nAccording to University of Chicago psychologist David A. Gallo, 55 sightings of Mothman in Chicago during 2017 published on the website of self-described Fortean researcher Lon Strickler are “a selective sample\". Gallo explains that \"he's not sampling random people and asking if they saw the Mothman — he's just counting the number of people that voluntarily came forward to report a sighting”. According to Gallo, \"people more likely to visit a paranormal-centric website like Strickler’s might also be more inclined to believe in, and therefore witness the existence of, a “Mothman”\".\n\nSome pseudoscience adherents (such as ufologists, paranormal authors, and cryptozoologists) claim that Mothman was an alien, a supernatural manifestation, or a previously unknown species of animal. In his 1975 book \"The Mothman Prophecies\", author John Keel claimed that the Point Pleasant residents experienced precognitions including premonitions of the collapse of the Silver Bridge, unidentified flying object sightings, visits from inhuman or threatening men in black, and other phenomena.\n\nPoint Pleasant held its first Annual Mothman Festival in 2002 and a 12-foot-tall metallic statue of the creature, created by artist and sculptor Bob Roach, was unveiled in 2003. The Mothman Museum and Research Center opened in 2005 and is run by Jeff Wamsley. The Festival is a weekend-long event held on the 3rd weekend of every September. There is a variety of events that go on during the festival such as guest speakers, vendor exhibits, a mothman pancake eating contest, and hayride tours focusing on the notable areas of Point Pleasant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50295443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50295443", "title": "Nishanwalia Misl", "text": "Nishanwalia Misl\n\n]]\nThe Nishanvali/Nishanvala Misl was founded by the sardar jai singh ji and its founder was jai singh ji.\nThe Nishanavali misl, kept as a reserve force at Amritsar, used to act as standard-bearers of the Khalsa army \"Dal Khalsa\". Hence the name (Nishan = flag or standard; vali/vala= owning or unfurling) means this misl carry the Nishan Sahib, the Sikh Flag in the battle. \nThis misl has two 12 feet long Naishan sabih which they used to carry wars the flags are still there but they have been kept by family there of this misl \nThis Sikh Misl had a strength of 2000 regular horsemen and covered the areas of Roopnagar, Ambala and Shahbad Markanda.\n"}
{"id": "13428247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13428247", "title": "Penalty (Mormonism)", "text": "Penalty (Mormonism)\n\nIn Mormonism, a penalty was an oath made by participants of the original Nauvoo Endowment instituted by Joseph Smith in 1843 and further developed by Brigham Young after Smith's death. Mormon critics refer to the penalty as a \"blood oath\", because it required the participant to swear never to reveal certain key symbols of the endowment ceremony, including the penalty itself, while symbolically enacting ways in which a person may be executed. The penalties were similar to oaths made as part of a particular rite of Freemasonry practiced in western New York at the time the endowment was developed.\n\nDuring the 20th century, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) gradually softened the graphic nature of the penalties, and in 1990 removed them altogether from their version of the ceremony.\n\nOn May 4, 1842, Joseph Smith instituted the endowment ritual in Nauvoo, Illinois. At three different stages of the endowment, participants were asked to take an oath of secrecy regarding the gestures of the ceremony . The participants promised that if they were ever to reveal the gestures of the ceremony, would be subject to the following:\n\n\nEach of the penalties was accompanied by gestures known as the \"execution of the penalty\" which simulated the actions described in the oath . \n\nThe oaths and their accompanying gestures resembled certain oaths performed in a particular Freemasonry tradition in western New York at the time, in which participants promised:\n\nBeginning in 1919, church president Heber J. Grant appointed a committee charged with revising the endowment ceremony, which was done under the direction of apostle George F. Richards from 1921 to 1927. Among the changes that were instituted was a modification of the oaths. While the execution of the penalty gestures remained unchanged, the church replaced the verbal description of the penalty with the phrase, \"rather than do so, I would suffer my life to be taken.\"\n\nIn April 1990, the LDS Church eliminated the oaths and the penalty gestures from the endowment. During the period when these oaths were used, there was no documented instance in which a person was killed or committed suicide for having violated the oaths of secrecy of the endowment.. There has been, however, a link to temple ritual in the 1984 killing of an American Fork, Utah, mother and daughter by Ron and Dan Lafferty (the throats were cut from ear to ear).\n\nThese penalty oaths and the oath of vengeance are often confused as being related teachings. However, they were separate and distinct oaths; the oath of vengeance involved praying to God for justice in regard to the murders of Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum. While the oath of vengeance was removed from the endowment in 1927 as part of the LDS Church's \"Good Neighbor\" policy, the penalty oaths were not completely removed until 1990. The penalty oaths are also frequently confused with the concept of blood atonement, which was never incorporated into the Latter-day Saint temple ordinances.\n\nSome groups within the Mormon fundamentalist movement continue to practice the endowment without the LDS Church's 1927 and 1990 modifications. Consequently, these groups still participate in these oaths when performing the endowment. Some of the denominations that continue to perform the original endowment include the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, the Apostolic United Brethren, and the True and Living Church of Jesus Christ of Saints of the Last Days.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11916143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11916143", "title": "Potipherah", "text": "Potipherah\n\nPotipherah was a priest of the Ancient Egyptian town of On, mentioned in the and .\n\nHe was the father of Asenath, who was given to Joseph as his wife by Pharaoh, () and who bore Joseph two sons: Manasseh and Ephraim.\n\nHis name means \"he whom Ra has given\".\n\nIt was suggested that Potipherah was a prince, not only a priest, and that he may be the same person as Potiphar.\n\nIf this is true, then the wife of Potipherah was in love with Joseph, as it is said for Potiphar's wife.\n"}
{"id": "4517264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4517264", "title": "Presumptive regeneration", "text": "Presumptive regeneration\n\nPresumptive regeneration (also presupposed regeneration) is the idea often associated with Abraham Kuyper that parents should baptize their children based on a presumption of the child's being regenerate.\n\nThe 1905 synod of the Reformed Churches in the Netherlands, meeting in Utrecht (Conclusion of Utrecht), declared:\nThese 1905 \"Conclusions of Utrecht\" were adopted by the Synod of the Christian Reformed Church in North America in 1908. They were challenged from time to time, given an \"official interpretation\" by the Synod of 1962, and finally set aside in 1968.\n\nTheologians of the Liberated, Free Reformed, and Netherlands Reformed traditions oppose the doctrine. They charge this doctrine with providing parents and especially young adults with a false ground for the assurance of their salvation. Parents begin to regard their children as saved because they were baptized. Young adults begin to regard themselves as regenerate because they were baptized. Pastors begin to assume that everyone in their church is regenerate. Thus very little of the preaching is directed to unconverted persons and often neglects the necessity of repentance.\n\nThese theologians would point to a document like the Westminster Larger Catechism as teaching the true ground for one's assurance of their own salvation.\nQuestion 80: Can true believers be infallibly assured that they are in the estate of grace, and that they shall persevere therein unto salvation?\n<br>\nAnswer: Such as truly believe in Christ, and endeavor to walk in all good conscience before him, may, without extraordinary revelation, by faith grounded upon the truth of God's promises, and by the Spirit enabling them to discern in themselves those graces to which the promises of life are made, and bearing witness with their spirits that they are the children of God, be infallibly assured that they are in the estate of grace, and shall persevere therein unto salvation. \n<br>\nQuestion 81: Are all true believers at all times assured of their present being in the estate of grace, and that they shall be saved?\n<br>\nAnswer: Assurance of grace and salvation not being of the essence of faith, true believers may wait long before they obtain it; and, after the enjoyment thereof, may have it weakened and intermitted, through manifold distempers, sins, temptations, and desertions; yet are they never left without such a presence and support of the Spirit of God as keeps them from sinking into utter despair.\nSome Netherlands Reformed Church theologians might additionally point to a mystical revelation of God to the soul as providing the true ground for one's assurance. Such is their interpretation, for example, of Romans 8:16.\nThe Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. Now if we are children, then we are heirs—heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings in order that we may also share in his glory.\nThe term \"regeneration\" is also affected by subtle shifts in meaning. John Calvin considered regeneration to represent the activity of New Birth - not its completion. While the current usage of the term looks back on New Birth, early on it meant the process of new birth itself, that is that God is working in the life of His children. His commentary on John 3 and many of his defenses of infant baptism in the Institutes show this interest not to consider regeneration only as a single event in the believer's life.\n\n"}
{"id": "19800172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19800172", "title": "Purity in Buddhism", "text": "Purity in Buddhism\n\nPurity (\"suddha\") is an important concept within much of Theravada and Mahayana Buddhism, although the implications of the resultant moral purification may be viewed differently in the varying traditions. The aim is to purify the personality of the Buddhist practitioner so that all moral and character defilements and defects (\"kleshas\" such as anger, ignorance and lust) are wiped away and Nirvana can be obtained.\n\nTheravada Buddhism regards the path of self-purification as absolutely vital for the reaching of nibbana/nirvana. The main task of the Theravada Buddhist monk is to eradicate moral and character flaws through meditation and moral cultivation, in alliance with the cultivation of insight (\"panna\"/ \"prajna\"), so that the purity of nibbana can be achieved. So important is this notion of purity in Theravada Buddhism that the famed Buddhist monk and commentator, Buddhaghosa, composed a central thesis on dhamma (Buddhism) called \"The Path of Purity\" (\"Visuddhi-magga\").\n\nControversially, according to the Mahayana Tathagatagarbha sutras, the unsullied essence or \"true self\" (also termed the Buddha nature) of the being can be laid bare and become manifest once the temporary and superficial contaminants (kleshas) have been eradicated from its presence.\nThese contaminants are seen as extrinsic to, rather than inherent within, the essence of the being.\n\nThe resulting Buddha (after the kleshas have been eliminated) is referred to in the Tathagatagarbha literature and in the works of the Tibetan Jonangpa lama Dolpopa as the 'pure Self'.\n\nThe Perfection of Wisdom sutras of Mahayana Buddhism, in contrast, would ultimately view both impurity and purification as illusory, without any basis to either. Neither has an enduring essence and so is not truly 'fake', according to these ideas, but is merely a name or concept. Nevertheless, these scriptures do teach the need to detach from all moral defilements if Buddhahood is to be reached for the sake of awakening all sentient beings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22042724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22042724", "title": "Religious literacy", "text": "Religious literacy\n\nReligious literacy is the knowledge of, and ability to understand, religion. The importance of being religiously literate is increasing as globalisation has created greater links and migration between societies of different faiths and cultures. It has been proposed that including religious literacy as an aspect of public education would improve social cohesion.\n\nReligious Literacy Project: Dedicated to enhancing and promoting the public understanding of religion.\n\nArticle: Overcoming Religious Illiteracy (2006). World History Connected.\n\n"}
{"id": "803672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803672", "title": "Sandpainting", "text": "Sandpainting\n\nSandpainting is the art of pouring coloured sands, and powdered pigments from minerals or crystals, or pigments from other natural or synthetic sources onto a surface to make a fixed, or unfixed sand painting. Unfixed sand paintings have a long established cultural history in numerous social groupings around the globe, and are often temporary, ritual paintings prepared for religious or healing ceremonies. It is also referred to as drypainting.\n\nDrypainting is practised by Native Americans in the Southwestern United States, by Tibetan and Buddhist monks, as well as Australian Aborigines, and also by Latin Americans on certain Christian holy days.\n\nIn the sandpainting of southwestern Native Americans (the most famous of which are the Navajo (known as the Diné)), the Medicine Man (or \"Hatałii\") paints loosely upon the ground of a hogan, where the ceremony takes place, or on a buckskin or cloth tarpaulin, by letting the coloured sands flow through his fingers with control and skill. There are 600 to 1,000 different traditional designs for sandpaintings known to the Navajo. They do not view the paintings as static objects, but as spiritual, living beings to be treated with great respect. More than 30 different sandpaintings may be associated with one ceremony.\n\nThe colours for the painting are usually accomplished with naturally coloured sand, crushed gypsum (white), yellow ochre, red sandstone, charcoal and a mixture of charcoal and gypsum (blue). Brown can be made by mixing red and black; red and white make pink. Other colouring agents include corn meal, flower pollen, or powdered roots and bark.\n\nThe paintings are for healing purposes only. Many of them contain images of \"Yeibicheii\" (the Holy People). While creating the painting, the medicine man will chant, asking the \"yeibicheii\" to come into the painting and help heal the patient.\n\nWhen the medicine man finishes painting, he checks its accuracy. The order and symmetry of the painting symbolise the harmony which a patient wishes to reestablish in his or her life. The accuracy of a sandpainting is believed to determine its efficacy as a sacred tool. The patient will be asked to sit on the sandpainting as the medicine man proceeds with the healing chant. It is claimed the sandpainting acts as a portal to attract the spirits and allow them to come and go. Practitioners believe sitting on the sandpainting helps the patient to absorb spiritual power, while in turn the Holy People will absorb the illness and take it away. Afterward, when the sandpainting has served its purpose, it is considered to be toxic, since it has absorbed the illness. For this reason, the painting is destroyed. Because of the sacred nature of the ceremonies, the sandpaintings are begun, finished, used and destroyed within 12 hours.\n\nThe ceremonies involving sandpaintings are usually done in sequences, termed \"chants\", lasting a certain number of days depending on the ceremony. At least one fresh, new sandpainting is made for each day.\n\nSome Navajo laws and taboos relate to the sandpaintings, and protect their holiness:\n\nIndigenous Australian art has a history which covers more than 30,000 years, and a wide range of native traditions and styles. These have been studied in recent decades and their complexity has gained increased international recognition. Aboriginal Art covers a wide variety of media, including sandpainting, painting on leaves, wood carving, rock carving, sculpture, and ceremonial clothing, as well as artistic embellishments found on weaponry and also tools. Art is one of the key rituals of Aboriginal culture. It was and still is, used to mark territory, record history, and tell stories about \"The Dreaming\".\n\nAboriginal people have taken to transforming their tradition sand paintings into more permanent forms using modern techniques and materials.\n\nGeoffrey Bardon was an Australian art teacher who was instrumental in creating the Aboriginal art of the Western Desert movement, and in bringing Australian indigenous art to the attention of the world.\"... [directed by Bardon, the elders] began to interact with certain issues in 1960s and 70s international painting, especially the extreme schematisation of New York minimalism.\" In the History of Painting\"Lyrical Abstraction in the late 1960s is characterised by the paintings of Dan Christensen, Ronnie Landfield, Peter Young and others, and along with the fluxus movement and postminimalism (a term first coined by Robert Pincus-Witten in the pages of Artforum in 1969) sought to expand the boundaries of abstract painting and minimalism by focusing on process, new materials and new ways of expression.\"\n\nThis connection is seen most obviously in the connection between the paintings from the late sixties of Peter Young (artist) and the paintings that follow in the early seventies produced in the Papunya Tula.\n\nPapunya Tula, or Papunya Tula Artists Pty Ltd, is an artist cooperative formed in 1972 that is owned and operated by Aboriginal people from the Western Desert of Australia. Kaapa Tjampitjinpa is one of the early Papunya Tula artists and is known for \"Gulgardi\". It is notable for being the first work by an Indigenous Australian artist to win a contemporary art award, and the first public recognition of a Papunya painting.\n\nTibetan Buddhist sand paintings usually composed \"mandalas\". In Tibetan, it is called \"dul-tson-kyil-khor\" (mandala of coloured powders).\nThe sand is carefully placed on a large, flat table. The construction process takes several days, and the mandala is destroyed shortly after its completion. This is done as a teaching tool and metaphor for the \"impermanence\" (Pali: \"anicca\") of all contingent and compounded phenomena (Sanskrit: \"Pratītya-samutpāda\").\n\nThe mandala sand-painting process begins with an opening ceremony, during which the \"lamas\", or Tibetan priests, consecrate the site and call forth the forces of goodness. They chant, declare intention, \"mudra\", \"asana\", \"pranayama\", do visualisations, play music, recite \"mantras\", etc.\nOn the first day, the lamas begin by drawing an outline of the mandala to be painted on a wooden platform. The following days see the laying of the coloured sands, which is effected by pouring the sand from traditional metal funnels called chak-pur. Each monk holds a \"chak-pur\" in one hand, while running a metal rod on its serrated surface; the vibration causes the sands to flow like liquid.\nFormed of traditional prescribed iconography that includes geometric shapes and a multitude of ancient spiritual symbols (e.g.: Ashtamangala and divine attributes of \"yidam\"), seed syllables, mantra, the sand-painted mandala is used as a tool or instrument for innumerable purposes. A primary purpose is to reconsecrate the earth and its inhabitants.\nWhen the meditation is complete, the sand painting is ceremoniously destroyed using a Vajra and the sand is then gathered and taken to a body of water for offering.\n\nFrom the 15th century in Japan, Buddhist artists in the times of the \"shōguns\" practised the craft of \"bonseki\" by sprinkling dry coloured sand and pebbles onto the surface of plain black lacquered trays. They used bird feathers as brushes to form the sandy surface into seascapes and landscapes. These tray pictures were used in religious ceremonies. Japanese esoteric Buddhism was transmitted from East Central Asia after the 8th century, and thus these Japanese Buddhist sandpaintings may share earlier historical roots with the more intricate brightly coloured Buddhist sand mandalas created by Tibetan Buddhist monks.\n\nDuring the 17th and 18th centuries, the royal courts of Europe employed \"table deckers\", who decorated the side tables at royal banquets having adapted the craft of 'bonseki' from the Japanese. The table deckers sprinkled coloured sands, marble dust, sugars, etc. upon the surface of plain white tablecloths to create unfixed pictures of fruit, flowers, birds and rustic scenery. In between each design spaces were left for fruit bowls and sweetmeat dishes so that the diners could refresh themselves in between the main courses of the feast. These ornate pictures were discarded along with the debris of the feast.\n\nAs a fine example of the table deckers' craft, Woburn Abbey in Bedfordshire, England possesses an ornate folding screen with three panels, decorated with sand pictures protected by glass. The centre one has five spaces for sweetmeat pyramid dishes while the two side leaves of the screen have three spaces for fruit trays. There are four sand pictures in each corner of the side panels of the screen, featuring 18th-century pastoral scenes, while the remaining areas of the screen are decorated with butterflies, doves, fruit, flowers, etc. The screen would be laid upon the surface of a side table. It doubled as a serving base for elaborate porcelain dishes and glass trays containing fruits, bonbons and sweetmeats, from which the hosts and their guests could help themselves while socialising or stretching their legs between the multiple courses being served on the main table in the dining hall. This screen may have been the work of the German artisan F. Schweikhardt, who specialised in still-life studies in the style of the Dutch painter Jan van Huysum.\n\nSandpainting as a craft was inspired by King George III, who was a skilled watchmaker and craftsman in his own right, and took an interest in the skills demonstrated by royal functionaries, known as Table Deckers, who decorated the white table-cloths at royal banquets with ornate centre-pieces decorated by using unfixed coloured sands and sugars as 'paint', and a bird's feather as a 'brush' a craft introduced by a European traveller who had observed the craftsmen at work in Japan.\n\nIt was while watching the table deckers at work the King suggested that if the sand pictures being temporarily laid out upon the surface of the tablecloths could be fixed permanently in place rather than being discarded with the remains of the feast, this would save much time and energy employing a multitude of skilled embroiderers toiling over such skilled work. So on one occasion the King bellowed to the craftsmen, \"Why don't you fix it!\" This set a number of craftsmen including Haas, Schweikhardt and Benjamin Zobel (Memmingen, Germany, 21 September 1762 - London, England, 24 October 1830), all of German origin, to, independently of each other, successfully develop suitable methods to achieve this goal, and these pictures were commissioned by the royal worthies of the day and became highly prized by the aristocracy. The King's brother, the Duke of York, commissioned a number of works by Zobel and the others, although the sand artists jealously guarded their method from their competitors.\nZobel depicted \"pigs in the manner of Morland\"; \"Nelson\", the favourite dog of the Duke of York; \"Tiger after George Stubbs\", and an impressive \"Vulture and snake.\"\nAlthough many of Zobel's works have survived, few of those by Haas have survived the passage of time, although observers considered his work superior to that of Zobel. This may reflect the differing techniques used by each artist. A diarist observed Zobel's coating the surface of the baseboard with a mixture of gum arabic and white lead and sprinkling sand upon the sticky surface using a folded paper funnel as a brush. He had to work quickly since the adhesive would dry in a few hours. Several of his surviving pictures have unfinished work on the reverse. Haas followed more closely the techniques developed in Japan, but mixing dry powdered gum arabic with the sand, sprinkling the mixture through a sieve and using feathers as brushes to create the pictures upon the baseboard, then fixing them by some method which he kept a secret. Due to the damp conditions in many of the stately homes of the day, his pictures failed to last more than a few years. On one occasion Haas was called away while working on an unfixed sand picture. When he returned he found one of Windsor Castle's cats curled up on the picture, thus damaging it!\n\nEventually Zobel returned to Memmingen in Bavaria where he continued to successfully pursue his craft. Some of his work is displayed in Memmingen Town Hall. Haas was forced to give up sand painting, probably due to the ongoing disasters with his pictures. He opened a bakery in Windsor instead, and the icing on his cakes may well have been decorated with pictures in coloured sugar instead of sand.\n\nWith the passing of these Georgian craftsmen and the disposal of the Duke of York's collection the interest and skills evolved in sand picture work declined. The only Royal personage to take further interest in the craft was the late Queen Mary, consort to King George V, who bequeathed her Georgian sand paintings to the Victoria and Albert Museum, and her collection of Isle of Wight sand pictures to Carisbrooke Castle Museum on the Isle of Wight.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century Lt. Colonel Rybot was a keen collector of sand paintings, which were the source material of the articles written on the subject in the arts and crafts magazines of the day. Eventually 37 of his collection of sand paintings were the main feature at an auction held at Sotheby's New Bond Street gallery on 15 June 1956.\n\nThousands of sites exist where it is possible to collect natural coloured sands for craftwork, with an enormous range of colours being available around the globe varying with the contents of the mineral charged waters leaching through the sands. But for the tourist the vertical sand cliffs at Alum Bay on the Isle of Wight form the central portion of a visual geological phenomenon (best viewed after a shower of rain) which encapsulates the impressive chalk spires of The Needles and Tennyson Downs. Although tourists are no longer encouraged to obtain their own sand from the cliffs, numerous companies on the Island sell sand for the purpose of Sandpainting.\n\nAfter her marriage to Prince Albert and having chosen Osborne House near Cowes to be her new family retreat, Queen Victoria was the prime mover in the gentrification of this former backwater, local artisans benefitted from the influx of wealthy visitors, and a number of craftsmen sold their fixed sand pictures and unfixed sand jars featuring views of the Island as unique keepsakes of the Isle of Wight.\n\nSome of these sand pictures were small and crude and left unsigned, but Edwin and John Dore of Arreton produced some fine work in the 1840s. The pictures were of postcard size and the subject matter local views such as Carisbrooke Castle, and other touristy subjects. Edwin always signed his quaint pictures in a fine hand with a mapping pen and Indian ink, one of his most successful mass-produced subjects being 'Collecting birds eggs on Needles Cliffs'. John Dore used a card embellished with a printed border of lace design on which to execute his sand pictures although the quality of his work was inferior to that of his brother.\n\nFew of the Island sand artists filled in the sky, giving that detail a light colourwash as a finishing touch, sometimes leaving doors and windows free of sand which would be blocked in with Indian ink. In the 1860s and 1870s J. Symons of Cowes kept up the good work, producing local views much larger than postcard size, mounted in glazed oak or maple frames and signed with the artist's signature on the reverse.\nThe father and son team the Neates of Newport sold their works from a stall outside Carisbrooke Castle gates where visitors were offered sand pictures and sand jars priced from 1/- to 2/6 each and the son grew his fingernails abnormally long in order to distribute the sand on his pictures.\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s R.J.Snow of Lake came nearest to producing sand pictures in the manner of the Georgian craftsmen, but postcard size, although he did produce some fine commissioned work, particularly a view of Oddicombe in Devon, in which the sea and sky were also 'painted' in sand, but after the war years the quality of the postcard sand pictures deteriorated with the mass-produced article with little taste or skill being offered for sale for a few shillings.\n\nIn Senegal, designs are glued to board and are typically of figures in the landscape.\n\nIn the 1860s to 1890s, Andrew Clemens a deaf mute born in Dubuque, Iowa, USA became famous for his craft of creating unfixed pictures using multicoloured sands compressed inside glass bottles or ornate chemist jars. The sand was collected from the bluffs overlooking the Mississippi River. The subjects of his sand bottles included ornately decorated sentimental verses, sailing ships, plants, animals and portraits. \n\nHe exhibited his work at the St. Louis trade fair and having spent hours creating a picture in a bottle would demonstrate to an incredulous audience that the picture inside was unfixed by destroying the bottle with a hammer. Clemens' sand bottles have become museum pieces and highly prized antiques which have since sold at auction for thousands of US dollars.\n\nIn the province of Drenthe in the Netherlands in the late 19th, early 20th centuries it was custom to use a stiff broom to sweep patterns in white sand to form simple decorations on the tiled floors of the houses, mostly for special occasions or celebrations. The next day it was swept up.\nThis custom was also practised in Northern Belgium by the Dutch speaking communities while in\nHekelgem, 1973 was the centenary year of the craft of \"Old Zandtapijt\". The hotels and cafes would employ artisans to strew ornate sand pictures in unfixed coloured sands on the tiled floors of their premises to encourage passing tourists to halt and enjoy local hospitality on their way towards Brussels. Roger de Boeck, born in 1930, was a well-respected exponent of this craft, who used glue to fix his sand pictures to a suitable base selling them to visitors to his atelier. In addition to biblical scenes, his finest works included a portrait of Queen Elizabeth 1953, and US president John Kennedy, in the early 60s. This craft continues, and a booklet to celebrate the centenary was published on 1 February 1973.\n\nIn modern days, sandpainting is most often practised during Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) in Mexico and the United States. Streets are decorated with sand paintings that are later swept away, symbolising the fleeting nature of life. Of note are the sandpaintings done during the Seattle , but the most exciting development has been the Performance Art of Sand Animation which has created a new wave of younger artists and also revived interest in all types of sand painting.\n\nA number of contemporary artists use sand in ways that depart from specific cultural traditions exploring techniques by raking sand, pouring it, carving it, creating unique designs. The works are ephemeral and are primarily shared through documentation or part of a live performance.\n\nMany of these artists were included in an exhibit at the Museum of Arts and Design in New York City titled \"Swept Away: Dust, Ashes, and Dirt in Contemporary Art and Design\" which was featured in the galleries in 2012. Curator David Revere McFadden described his reasoning for curating the exhibit as wanting to spotlight the work of contemporary artists who specialise in what he described as “unorthodox, unusual, or unexpected materials.”\n\nArtist included in the exhibit that use sand and techniques related to sand painting were: Elvira Wersche, who collects sands from all over the world to create geometric patterned paintings, only to be destroyed as part of a performance. Andy Goldsworthy is known for his ephemeral works using nature, and began sand painting in 1986, documented the deterioration of a giant ball of sand on the beach packed with bones for the exhibit. Jim Denevan known for his massive raked sand paintings also shared documentation of his process on California beaches. Igor Eskinja used dust to paint an architectural floor plan in the galleries. Cui Fei produces calligraphic works in sand using tradition chak-pur and brushes. Vik Muniz uses dust, chocolate syrup, grains of sand, sugar, caviar, magazines and industrial garbage in a way that reflects sand painting. The rotating exhibit \"Swept Away Projects\" featured Linda Florence and Joe Mangrum whose works were added to the galleries after removal of previous works. Linda Florence used chalk to stencil patterns onto the floor and often uses various materials like sugar to create installations. Joe Mangrum poured coloured sand from his hand for two consecutive days on 8–9 May 2012 he titled \"Asynchronous Syntropy\" and an outdoor project that acted as a circumambulation of the museum itself. Mangrum worked a total of 24 hours over the span of two days, spontaneously improvising his sand painting design, only to have it quickly disappear under the bustle of Columbus Circle foot traffic.\n\nOther contemporary artists who work with sand include Andrew van der Merwe, based in Cape Town, who carves calligraphic imagery into the sand on beaches; Andres Amador, an American artist who rakes designs into beaches; Ahmad Nadalian, an Iranian artist who uses natural ground pigments to paint with sand; and Motoi Yamamoto, who makes paintings reflecting typhoons and natural phenomena using salt.\n\nMost artists use naturally occurring oxidised and mineral-charged coloured sands, adding powdered charcoal to widen the palette and in some instances idiosyncratic materials such as iron filings or discarded stonemasons' dust from ecclesiastical sites. Other artists use industrial tinted quartz sands with a capacity to resist intemperie action and a new generation of strong adhesives. The work is protected with a coat of spray varnish. No protective glass frame is needed with the sands and the adhesives since the paintings have proved to resist the effect of direct sunlight without any yellowing of the varnish\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56556960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56556960", "title": "Shinbashira (Tenrikyo)", "text": "Shinbashira (Tenrikyo)\n\nIn the Tenrikyo religion, the Shinbashira (真柱 \"central pillar\") refers to the \"administrative and spiritual leader\" of Tenrikyo Church Headquarters. The \"Constitution of Tenrikyo\" defines the position as \"the one who governs Tenrikyo.\"\n\nThe fourth and current Shinbashira is Nakayama Zenji (中山善司), who has held the office since April 26, 1998.\n"}
{"id": "27928874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27928874", "title": "Smaradahana", "text": "Smaradahana\n\nSmaradahana is an old Javanese poem (Kakawin) written by Mpu Dharmaja as a eulogy for King Kameçvara of Kediri in early 12th century East Java. The story tells about the disappearance of Kamajaya (god of love) and Kamaratih (goddess of love) from Svargaloka because being burnt by the fire burst out from the third eye of Shiva. They fell upon the earth wondered and incarnated as human beings, their spirit seduces and inspires the lovers' hearts.\n\n\"Smaradahana\" is a sanskrit word from \"smara\" (love) and \"dahana\". \"Dhana\" itself can be translated as thirst or yearning, also as \"dahana\" (fire). Smaradhana can be translated as the fire of love that burnt lovers' hearts which put them to yearn for their lover, suffering the thirst or hunger for love. The theme Smaradhana inspires many art and literature pieces such as stories, poems and love songs in Indonesia.\n\nThe story begin when the goddess Parvati was feeling lonely. She missed and longed for her husband Lord Shiva, who at that time was meditating somewhere on a sacred mountain top. She decided to send Kamadeva, a lesser love god known in ancient Java as Kamajaya, to search for Shiva. His task was to inspire love in Shiva's heart, to make him yearn for his wife.\n\nUsing the bow and arrow of love tipped with a flower, Kamajaya shot the meditating Shiva. Suddenly Shiva felt the desire to see his wife. His heart was filled with memories of past love-making with Parvati, so he promptly stopped his meditation. However, when Shiva opened his eyes, he caught sight of Kamajaya hiding behind a rock. Angered by the fact that Kamajaya, the lesser god, had dared to disturb his meditation, fire burst out from his third eye and burnt Kamajaya to ashes. Kamajaya's wife, goddess Rati or known in ancient Java as Kamaratih, out of her love, devotion and loyalty, jumped into Shiva's fire to follow her husband. They both died in the flames, disappeared from svargaloka and vanished from the realm of gods.\n\nThe spirits of the couple, the divine lovers Kamajaya and Kamaratih, fell upon earth, into the realm of human beings. Frequently incarnated as two lovers, constantly searching for each other on earth, the spirit of Kamajaya and Kamaratih symbolize love, lust, desire and the yearning that inspire, seduces and is suffered by all lovers on earth.\n\nMpu Dharmaja wrote \"Smaradahana\" during the reign of Kameçvara, the second king of Kediri during the second quarter of 12th century. Historian believed that next to Dharmajaya's intention to transmit the Hindu mythology of Kamadeva being burnt by Shiva's fire (interpreted by the Sanskrit poet Kalidasa in as \"Kumarasambhava\") it was also intended to explain the essence of love and desire in human beings. It is strongly suggested that the poem was also Dharmaja's eulogy for the king.\n\nThe tradition celebrated Kameçvara as a strikingly handsome man, while his queen consort; Çri Kirana is famous for her extraordinary beauty. The king was adored as the incarnation of Kamajaya, the god of love, and his capital city Dahana or Daha was admired throughout the known world. Kameçvara's wife, Çri Kirana, was celebrated as the incarnation of Kamaratih, goddess of love and passion.\n\nThe Smaradhana become the prelude of Panji cycle tales, as Raden Inu Kertapati or Panji Asmoro Bangun is taught to be the incarnation of Kamajaya, while Dewi Chandra Kirana or Sekartaji as the incarnation of Kamaratih. The Panji tales spread throughout Southeast Asia as far as Malaya, Siam and Cambodia.\n\n"}
{"id": "24506472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24506472", "title": "Steve \"Clem\" Grogan", "text": "Steve \"Clem\" Grogan\n\nSteve Dennis \"Clem\" Grogan (born July 13, 1951) is an American convicted murderer and former member of the Manson Family.\n\nGrogan, a musician and artist, dropped out of high school and was involved in minor crimes. When his frustrated parents lost hope, they decided to drop him off at Spahn Ranch. He was immediately taken in by the ranch hands and began to do odd jobs around the ranch. Ranch hand Donald Shea took a liking to Grogan, often buying him clothes. Grogan was a resident long before Charles Manson and the Family became associated with Spahn Ranch. Like Charles Manson, he was friends with Dennis Wilson of the Beach Boys. He was often considered dumb, or even \"retarded\", by other Family members, earning him the nickname \"Scramblehead\", but some felt he was only \"playing dumb\". Allegedly, it was Grogan who wrecked Wilson's uninsured Ferrari. In 1969, he was sentenced to 90 days observation at Camarillo State Mental Hospital for exposing his penis to a group of school children, but he returned to the ranch after two days.\n\nThe night of August 10, 1969 he rode with members of the Manson family. Tex Watson, Patricia Krenwinkel and Leslie Van Houten were dropped off at the house of Leno and Rosemary LaBianca, but Grogan, Manson, Susan Atkins and Linda Kasabian continued to Venice Beach where Manson sent Grogan, Atkins and Kasabian to kill actor Saladin Nader, but Kasabian led them to the wrong apartment and the plan was aborted.\n\nGrogan later helped Manson, Watson and Bruce M. Davis kill Spahn ranch hand Donald \"Shorty\" Shea. The jury returned verdicts of life imprisonment for Manson and Davis, but death for Grogan. However, on December 23, 1971, Judge James Kolts stated that \"Grogan was too stupid and too hopped on drugs to decide anything on his own\" and that it was really Manson \"who decided who lived or died\" and reduced Grogan's sentence to life imprisonment. \n\nGrogan later assisted the authorities and drew a map to where Shea's body was buried. In prison he was head of the prison's program to deter juveniles from a life of crime and kept away from fellow inmate Manson. Grogan was released on parole from prison in 1985.\n\nGrogan played guitar and sang in the Freedom Orchestra Band with fellow Manson family co-conspirator Bobby Beausoleil when they both served time at the Deuel Vocational Institute in Tracy, California. Beausoleil later revealed that he convinced Grogan to begin playing again and even made him a guitar.\n\nGrogan was one of the people featured in the Oscar-nominated 1973 documentary film \"MANSON\".\n"}
{"id": "5088408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5088408", "title": "The Yada Yada", "text": "The Yada Yada\n\n\"The Yada Yada\" is the 153rd episode of the American NBC sitcom \"Seinfeld\". The 19th episode of the eighth season, it aired on April 24, 1997. Peter Mehlman and Jill Franklyn were nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series in 1997.\n\nJerry's dentist, Tim Whatley (Bryan Cranston), has just finished the process of converting to Judaism but is already making Jewish-themed jokes that make Jerry, who is Jewish, uncomfortable. Jerry goes so far as to say that he believes that Whatley only converted \"for the jokes\".\n\nKramer and Mickey Abbott double date, but can't decide which woman, Karen or Julie, is right for which one of them.\n\nElaine is a character reference for Beth and Arnie (Stephen Caffrey), a couple who are trying to adopt, but the story she tells during an interview destroys all hope of adoption: she mentions a time when she and the couple went to a movie, and the husband lost his temper because Elaine was talking during the movie.\n\nGeorge's new girlfriend Marcy likes to say \"yada yada yada\" to shorten her stories. He tries using this practice to avoid mentioning Susan's death but then becomes suspicious when Marcy tells him that her ex-boyfriend had visited her the night before \"and yada yada yada, I'm really tired today\". George later consults Jerry and Elaine, suspecting that Marcy used \"yada yada\" to cover up sex with her ex-boyfriend, and Elaine believes that this is possible.\n\nLater, George asks Marcy to tell him some of the things she was covering up with \"yada yada\", and discovers that she's a habitual shoplifter. George, however, is still reluctant to tell her how his engagement ended (since George mentioned: \"Well, we were engaged to be married, uh, we bought the wedding invitations, and, uh, yada yada yada, I'm still single.\")\n\nJerry confesses to a priest about what he thinks of Tim's conversion, saying that he's offended (not as a Jew, but as a comedian), only to get sidetracked when the priest laughs at a Catholic joke of Tim's that he repeats. However, the priest is less amused by a dentist/sadist joke that Jerry makes at the end of their conversation. George drops by Jerry's confession and tells him that they need to talk. Kramer decides on the right woman, and Mickey also decides to make his commitment; however, it becomes apparent they made a mistake when Kramer meets Karen's parents, who are revealed to be little people like Mickey. Tim hears about the dentist joke that Jerry told the priest. He takes extreme exception to it and, as a result, deliberately prolongs an uncomfortable procedure. After hearing Jerry's complaints about Tim, Kramer calls Jerry an \"anti-dentite\".\n\nElaine lobbies on behalf of Beth and Arnie, and propositions the adoption official as an inducement. Beth's marriage nonetheless fails and she accompanies Jerry to Mickey's wedding to Karen. Elaine, now dating the adoption agent, is dismayed. George shows up without Marcy, explaining that \"She was getting shoes for the wedding, yada yada yada, I'll see her in 6 to 8 months.\" Julie runs out before the wedding begins, apparently in love with Mickey and unable to bear seeing him marry Karen. Mickey's dad, a dentist, stands up for Whatley and chastises Jerry for antagonizing him: \"Tim Whatley was one of my students, and if this wasn't my son's wedding day, I'd knock your teeth out, you anti-dentite bastard.\" Jerry is initially comforted by Beth who is at first shown to harbor the same feelings towards dentists as Jerry, until she also reveals herself to be both racist and antisemitic, at which point Jerry dumps her and tells Elaine that she left \"to get her head shaved\". As Karen and Mickey walk out at the end of the ceremony, Karen says to Kramer, \"I really wanted \"you\"\", much to his surprise.\n\nThe episode was allowed by NBC to run longer than the usual thirty minutes, and its slightly above-average length was even boasted about in promos. An edited version airs in syndication, cutting out several small scenes and dialogues, but the full-length version is available on the \"Seinfeld\" Season 8 DVD collection and on Hulu.\n\nThe episode is one of the most famous of the series, specifically for its focus on the phrase \"yada yada\". \"Yadda yadda\" was already a relatively common phrase before the episode aired, used notably by comedian Lenny Bruce, among others. The phrase may have originated with the 1950s \"yackety-yack\", 1940s vaudeville, or earlier. The Phrase can be heard in the background of After the Fire's 1982 version of the song, \"Der Kommissar\" at the 3:00 mark. The phrase was used by a secretary summing up the boring parts of a letter in the February 16, 1984 \"Magnum PI\" episode \"The Return of Luther Gillis\" 14 years before the Seinfeld episode, in the December 7, 1989 (Season 8 Episode 11) \"Cheers\" episode \"Feeble Attraction\" and in the May 13, 1993 \"Cheers\" episode \"The Guy Can't Help It\". On the May 7, 1992 \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Bart's Friend Falls in Love\" Bart says, \"Well, Milhouse, tis better to have loved and lost, yada yada yada.\"\n\nThe phrase was used in the \"She's Back\" episode of \"Wings\", on 1/3/95, when character Sandy Cooper \"yada, yadas\" through the wedding ceremony to Joe Hackett.\n\nThe phrase was used in the fifth episode of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", \"Never Kill a Boy on the First Date\", which aired on March 31, 1997, appearing when Buffy Summers explains to Angel that she knows about a prophecy. The \"Seinfeld\" episode first aired a little less than a month later.\n\nBefore the episode aired, writer Peter Mehlman suspected that it would spawn a new \"Seinfeld\" catchphrase, but he thought it would be the phrase \"anti-dentite\" that would become popular. The Paley Center named \"Yada Yada Yada\" the No. 1 funniest phrase on \"TV's 50 Funniest Phrases\".\n\nScott Adams, creator of Dilbert was influenced by the episode as broadcast on April 24, 1997, as the Dilbert comic strip 6 days later on April 30, 1997, had a direct reference to \"yada yada\".\n\nSeinfeld's use of \"yada yada\" was referenced in the \"King of the Hill\" episode \"Yankee Hanky\" by Dale Gribble, who ridicules Hank Hill's discovery that he was born in New York City by using the phrase.\n\nThat Handsome Devil produced a song titled \"Yada-Yada\". Similarly, the episode was overtly referenced in the name of a popular Connecticut-based rock and roll outfit, The Anti-Dentites.\n\nThe episode was seemingly referenced by politician Sarah Palin in an email to \"The Daily Caller\" November 1, 2010:\n\nI suppose I could play their immature, unprofessional, waste-of-time game, too, by claiming these reporters and politicos are homophobe, child molesting, tax evading, anti-dentite, puppy-kicking, chain smoking porn producers…really, they are... I've seen it myself...but I'll only give you the information off-the-record, on deep, deep background; attribute these \"facts\" to an \"anonymous source\" and I'll give you more.\n\n"}
{"id": "42611389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42611389", "title": "To Light a Candle (film)", "text": "To Light a Candle (film)\n\nTo Light a Candle is a documentary by journalist Maziar Bahari, author of \"Then They Came for Me\".\n\nThe film highlights the persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran and focuses on the stories of those individuals associated with the shutdown of Bahá'í Institute for Higher Education. The film is scheduled to have a World Premiere at Stanford University in May 2014. The film follows a number of other films on the same topic, most notably \"The Gardener\" by Makhmalbaf and \"Iranian Taboo\" by Alamehzadeh.\n\n"}
{"id": "2934233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2934233", "title": "Werehyena", "text": "Werehyena\n\nWere-hyena is a neologism coined in analogy to werewolf for therianthropy involving hyenas. It is common in the folklore of North Africa, the Horn of Africa and the Near East, as well as some adjacent territories. Unlike werewolves and other therianthropes, which are usually portrayed as being originally human, some werehyena lore tells of how they can also be hyenas disguised as humans.\n\nIn Somalia, it is traditionally believed that Qori Ismaris (\"One who rubs himself with a stick\") was a man who could transform himself into a \"Hyena-man\" by rubbing himself with a magic stick at nightfall and by repeating this process could return to his human state before dawn.\n\nAlso in Ethiopia, it is traditionally believed that every blacksmith, whose trade is hereditary, is really a wizard or witch with the power to change into a hyena. These blacksmith werehyenas are believed to rob graves at midnight and are referred to as \"bouda\" (also spelled \"buda\"). They are viewed with suspicion by most countrymen. Belief in the \"bouda\" is also present in Sudan, Tanzania and Morocco where some among the Berber people regard the \"bouda\" as a man or woman who nightly turns into a hyena and resumes human shape at dawn. Many Ethiopian Christians characterize Ethiopian Jews as being bouda, accusing them of unearthing Christian corpses and consuming them; the commonality of blacksmithing as a traditional profession for Jewish men in Ethiopia may be a reason for the connection between the two beliefs.\n\nIn the Kanuri language of the former Bornu Empire in the Lake Chad region, werehyenas are referred to as bultungin which translates into \"I change myself into a hyena\". It was once traditionally believed that one or two of the villages in the region was populated entirely by werehyenas, such as Kabultiloa.\n\nIn the folklore of western Sudanic peoples, there is a hybrid creature, a human who is nightly transformed into a cannibalistic monster that terrorizes people, especially lovers. The creature is often portrayed as a magically powerful healer, blacksmith, or woodcutter in its human form, but recognizable through signs like a hairy body, red and gleaming eyes and a nasal voice.\n\nMembers of the Korè cult of the Bambara people in Mali “become” hyenas by imitating the animals' behaviour through masks and roleplays. These are evocative of the hyenas' reviled habits, and may also be used to evoke fear among the participants, leading them to avoid such habits and traits in their own lives.\n\nAl-Doumairy, in his \"Hawayan Al-Koubra\" (1406), wrote that hyenas are vampiric creatures that attack people at night and suck the blood from their necks. Arab folklore tells of how hyenas can mesmerise victims with their eyes or sometimes with their pheromones.\n\nA Persian medical treatise written in 1376 tells how to cure people known as \"kaftar,\" who are said to be “half-man, half-hyena,” who have the habit of slaughtering children.\n\nThe Greeks, until the end of the 19th century, believed that the bodies of werewolves, if not destroyed, would haunt battlefields as vampiric hyenas which drank the blood of dying soldiers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38546773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38546773", "title": "Young &amp; Wild (2012 film)", "text": "Young &amp; Wild (2012 film)\n\nYoung & Wild () is a 2012 Chilean coming-of-age comedy-drama film directed by Marialy Rivas and co-written by Marialy Rivas, Camila Gutiérrez, María José Viera-Gallo and Pedro Peirano. Starring Alicia Rodríguez and Maria Gracia Omegna, the film tells the story of Daniela, a 17-year-old bisexual girl who writes a blog about the conflicts she experiences between her evangelical Protestant, conservative family and her sexuality. The film was released at the Sundance Film Festival in 2012 where it was awarded the World Cinema Screenwriting Award.\n\nDaniela is a 17-year-old girl who lives in Santiago, Chile. Despite her family's deeply held Protestant beliefs, she eagerly explores her sexuality, through both casual sex and a blog titled Young and Wild. The blog serves as a place where she questions her church's teachings and documents her sexual adventures, including her first experiences with masturbation, oral sex, and anal sex. As her blog becomes more popular, it attracts comments from people who range from supportive to gossipy to outright propositioning her for sex.\n\nAfter she is caught having sex with another student, she is expelled from her conservative Christian school. Her mother does not initially react when told the news, and Daniela learns that her beloved aunt, a bohemian who serves as a role model for her, is being taken to the hospital due to cancer. There, her aunt pleads with Daniela's mother not to send the girl to perform grueling missionary work. Instead, Daniela takes a job at a local Christian television station as a gofer, where she meets coworkers Tomás and Antonia.\n\nDaniela is immediately drawn to Tomás, about whom she begins fantasizing. The two begin dating, though he refuses to engage in premarital sexual activity. Sexually frustrated, Daniela attempts to seduce him and has varying degrees of success. When she complains to Antonia, Antonia invites her to a party, where Daniela briefly performs oral sex on Tomás until he stops her. As she leaves the party, Daniela whispers to Antonia that she came to have sex with both Tomás and her. Shortly after, Antonia and Daniela begin an affair that Daniela documents on her blog.\n\nDaniela's parents come to trust Tomás, whom they allow to stay unsupervised with her. However, Tomás' inhibitions finally break down when Daniela questions whether he is interested in her. The two finally have sex, and Daniela describes on her blog how she feels torn between Antonia and Tomás, both of whom with which she is regularly having sex. Antonia expresses displeasure with their covert relationship, but Daniela is unwilling to commit to only one partner. When her family dines at a restaurant and thieves storm in, the family holds hands and prays, and the robbers pass by them. Daniela subsequently begins to question both her spirituality and morals.\n\nDaniela surprises both her blog readers and family when she announces that she wishes to be baptized. Her family is excited, and her aunt arranges a baptism at a lake, the same as her aunt's experience. However, Tomás discovers her blog and learns that she has been cheating on him. Furious, he breaks up with her, and her mother angrily chastises Daniela for her behavior. Her aunt dies shortly afterward, leaving Daniela with many questions, ranging from spirituality to relationships. Daniela closes the film with voice-over that quotes Paul the Apostle and says that she has not abandoned the beliefs of her childhood.\n\n\nCritics had mixed reactions to the film. The \"New York Times\" was unimpressed by Alicia Rodríguez' lead performance and the \"insistently blanched\" cinematography. On the other hand, other critics praised the portrayal of unwanted emotional conflicts emerging beyond physical relationships. Erik Childress of eFilmCritic writes: \"This is a film that respects sex and the emotional consequences that follow once the heat wears off.\" Todd McCarthy for \"The Hollywood Reporter\" said about the film that \"the ferocious effort of conservative religions to keep a tight lid on pre-marital sex is as old as history, but seeing it played out in a South American context gives it a new twist, at least onscreen.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1769801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1769801", "title": "Ülgen", "text": "Ülgen\n\nBai-Ülgen or Ülgen (Old Turkic: Bey Ülgen; also spelled Bai-Ulgen, Bai-Ülgen, Bay-Ulgan, Bay-Ulgen, or Bay-Ülgen; Khakas: \"Ӱлген\", Russian: \"Ульгень\" or \"Ульге́нь\", Ottoman: اولگن) is a Turkic and Mongolian creator-deity, usually distinct from Tengri but sometimes identified with him in the same manner as Helios and Apollo. His name is from Old Turkic \"bay\", \"rich\", and \"ülgen\", \"magnificent\". Ülgen is believed to be without either beginning or end.\n\nIn Turkic and Mongolian mythology, the birch tree, regarded as a cosmic axis between earth and sky, was regarded as sacred to him, as was the horse (horse-sacrifice was a part of his worship). Ülgen symbolizes goodness, welfare, abundance, plentiness of food, water, etc. Furthermore, he created earth, heaven and all living beings. In addition, he controls the atmospheric events and movements of stars. He creates land for people to live on, the heads of both humans and animals and the rainbow. He was regarded as the patron god of shamans and the source of their knowledge.\n\nIt is believed that Ülgen has been created from Tengri (Tengere Kayra Khan). He is the highest deity after Tengri in the Mongo-Turkic pantheon. Often, Ülgen is compared with Tengri and at times they are thought to be on par, or even the same. In some sayings, the name/function of Ülgen may be (partially) interchangeable with that of Tengri.\n\nÜlgen is described as the enemy of Erlik who is the god of evil and darkness. Ülgen assumes the protectorship of humankind against him.\n\nBai-Ülgen lives on the sixteenth floor of the sky above the stars, sun and moon in a golden house. Mere humans may never reach him, excepting shamans or kams, who possess astral powers. Animals are used for sacrifice in worship of him, especially horses. Once in every third, sixth, ninth, or twelfth year, a shaman may sacrifice a white horse as the first step of reaching Ülgen. Then he must ride its soul, penetrate through all the layers of heaven until he reaches Ülgen. Firstly, the kam (shaman) meets Yayık who is the servant of Ülgen. This entity informs the kam whether or not the offering has been accepted. If the sacrificial rite has been successful, the shaman is able to learn from the omniscient Ülgen of impending dangers, such as bad harvests.\n\nÜlgen has seven sons, named Akoğlanlar (White Boys) or Kıyatlar. They are \"Karakush Khan, Karshyt Khan, Pura Khan, Burcha Kan, Yashyl Khan, Er-Kanym Khan, Bakty Khan\". And he has nine daughters, that named Akkızlar and Kıyanlar. But no one knows their names. His daughters are source of inspiration for shamans.\n\nThey are the sons of Ülgen.\n\n\n\n"}
